{"id": "337938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337938", "title": "2002 California Proposition 47", "text": "2002 California Proposition 47\n\nProposition 47 was a proposition in the state of California on the November 5, 2002 ballot. The official title was \"Kindergarten-University Public Education Facilities Bond Act of 2002.\" The proposition passed with 4,138,826 (59.1%) votes in favor and 2,869,577 (40.9%) against. It was placed on the ballot by a vote of the state legislature on AB 16.\n\nWhen put on the ballot, the question before voters was:\nThe passing of California Proposition 47 would allow:\n\nThe passing of California Proposition 47 resulted in a cost of about $26.2 billion over 30 years to pay off both the principal ($13.05 billion) and interest ($13.15 billion) costs on the bonds at a state level. This will consist of payments of about $873 million per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41657867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41657867", "title": "Air Infiltration and Ventilation Centre", "text": "Air Infiltration and Ventilation Centre\n\nAir Infiltration and Ventilation Centre (AIVC) is the International Energy Agency (IEA) information centre on energy efficient ventilation of buildings.\n\nThe AIVC started in 1979 in the context of the first and second oil crisis in 1973 and 1979. The Centre was established as the 5th research project (Annex 5) in the context of the implementing agreement Energy in Buildings and Communities Programme(EBC) - (at that time called ECBCS) of the International Energy Agency (IEA, 1974). Since its inauguration, in 1979, the AIVC has been running without interruption.\nOn June 9, 2016 the executive committee of the International Energy Agency (IEA) Technical Collaboration Programme Buildings and Communities (EBC TCP), approved a 5-year extension period for the AIVC from 2017 till 2021. In the first years, the AIVC’s primary focus was understanding and finding ways to limit the energy impact of air infiltration in buildings. This was reflected in its original name “Air Infiltration Centre”. Ventilation was introduced in the name in 1986 because of the strong interactions between ventilation and infiltration in buildings and increasing interest in indoor air quality concerns. The Centre has developed an expertise in ventilation and infiltration with a series of technical notes and guides\n\nIn parallel, the scientific and professional community in this area has grown significantly as well as the amount of research and development. Therefore, since 2011, to encourage exchanges and collaboration between the various stakeholders in the field, AIVC has shifted its focus to networking activities including the use of advanced and innovative dissemination strategies. The Centre is operated by the International Network for Information on Ventilation and Energy Performance(INIVE), which is a registered European Economic Interest Grouping (EEIG) whose members include building research centres in Europe.\n\nToday, AIVC serves as a source of information for scientists and professionals interested in building ventilation and infiltration issues. The Centre holds annual conferences and workshops, publishes papers and reports, and maintains a large database of publications.\n\nThe AIVC also collaborates with the TightVent Europe and venticool platforms; both platforms are market oriented, created in 2011 and 2012 and focusing on building and ductwork airtightness and ventilative cooling strategies in buildings, respectively.\nIn addition, the AIVC has collaborative activities with organizations such as the International Society of Indoor Air Quality and Climate (ISIAQ),the Federation of European Heating,Ventilation and Air-conditioning Associations (REHVA),the International Building Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA), the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers ASHRAE as well as the Indoor Environmental Quality Global Alliance (IEQ-GA).\n\nThe following countries participate in the AIVC: Australia, Belgium, China, Denmark, France, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Republic of Korea, Spain, Sweden, UK and USA.\n\nAIRBASE is the Bibliographic Database of the AIVC. It contains abstracts of articles and publications related to energy efficient ventilation of buildings. Where possible, sufficient detail is supplied in the bibliographic details for users to trace and order the material via their own libraries. Topics covered by AIRBASE include ventilation strategies, design and retrofit methods, calculation techniques, standards and regulations, measurement methods, and indoor air quality and energy implications.\n\nEntries are based on articles and reports published in journals, internal publications and research reports, produced both by university departments and by building research institutions throughout the world.\nAIRBASE has grown and evolved since the AIVC was established from 1979 to present day, with over 21000 references and 15000 documents available online.\n\nSince its creation in 1979 the AIVC has produced a series of publications grouped in themes.\n\nVentilation Information Papers are a series of short publications (6 to 8 pages) intended to give a basic knowledge on some aspects related to the air infiltration and/or the ventilation).\n\nThe AIVC's collection of Technical Reports offers detailed information on subjects including ventilation, infiltration, indoor air movement, and measurement techniques.\n\nGuides and Handbooks is a series of carefully researched and readily accessible publications gives detailed coverage on a range of important topics, and encapsulating the knowledge and experience derived from experts in all the AIVC Member Countries.\n\nAnnotated Bibliographies is a series of bibliographies aimed at researchers, designers and engineers etc. who are seeking an overview of developments on subjects including ventilation, air infiltration and related fields. The references quoted in these documents are taken from the AIVC’s bibliographic database (AIRBASE).\n\nContributed reports are reports produced by third parties but considered of relevance for the AIVC target audience and therefore also published under an AIVC cover.\n\nThe Air Information Review (AIR) was a quarterly newsletter containing topical and informative articles on air infiltration and ventilation research and application. It was published from 1979 to 2010. Since 2011, the AIVC publishes twice a year a 4-page newsletter with the aim to provide information on the progress of the various projects as well as to learn about initiatives (publications, events, etc.) of interest.\n\nThe AIVC holds a conference each year in September/October in one of the AIVC participating countries, with around 50 to 150 presentations on a variety of topics in the air infiltration and ventilation fields. Since 1980, these annual conferences have been an international meeting point for presenting and discussing major developments and results regarding infiltration and ventilation in buildings. The proceedings of each conference are made available by the time of the next year's conference.\n\nThe AIVC also organizes workshops, covering a wide range of topics in the field of infiltration and ventilation in buildings.\n\n"}
{"id": "41247654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41247654", "title": "Annie Dookhan", "text": "Annie Dookhan\n\nAnnie Dookhan (born 1977) is a former chemist of a Massachusetts crime lab who admitted to falsifying evidence, affecting up to 34,000 cases.\n\nAnnie Dookhan was born Annie Sadiyya Khan in San Fernando, Trinidad and Tobago in 1977. She moved to the United States when she was a child and eventually became a citizen. In 2003, she was hired as a chemist at the Hinton State Laboratory Institute in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston. She married Surrendranath Dookhan in 2004.\n\nIn June 2011, an evidence officer at the lab discovered that Dookhan had tested 95 samples without properly signing them out. Further investigation revealed that she had forged the initials of an evidence officer in her log book, and she was suspended from lab duties. However, she was still allowed to continue testifying in court until February 2012, when district attorneys throughout the Boston area were notified of the breach in protocol and Dookhan was placed on administrative leave. She resigned in March 2012.\n\nDuring Dookhan's time at the Hinton lab, it had been run by the Massachusetts Department of Health's Office of Human Services. However, in a cost-cutting move, the Massachusetts General Court transferred control of the lab to the Massachusetts State Police forensics unit in 2011. The state police mounted a probe into the Dookhan case. The probe revealed that Dookhan's superiors had ignored red flags surrounding her before 2011. For instance, she reportedly tested over 500 samples per month—five times the normal average—even though her supervisors and colleagues claimed to have never seen her in front of a microscope, and that she frequently misidentified samples. Additionally, Dookhan's productivity remained steady after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts\" that chemists who perform drug tests in criminal cases can be subpoenaed to testify in person. According to an independent data analysis by NPR member WBUR in Boston, Dookhan's turnaround time for tests actually dropped from 2009 to 2011. The problem was severe enough that Governor Deval Patrick ordered the lab shut down.\n\nIn August, police interviewed Dookhan at her home in Franklin, where she admitted to altering and faking test results in order to cover up her frequent \"dry labbing,\" or visually identifying samples without actually testing them. She even went as far as to add cocaine to samples in which no cocaine was present. She said she had been dry-labbing for as long as three years. At one point, she broke down, saying, \"I messed up, I messed up bad. I don't want the lab to get in trouble.\"\n\nOn September 28, 2012, Dookhan was arrested and charged with obstruction of justice and falsification of academic records. The latter charge came because she had claimed both on her resume and in sworn testimony to have had a master's degree in chemistry from the University of Massachusetts at Boston. However, school officials revealed that Dookhan had no such degree, and had never taken master's level classes there.\n\nOn December 17, Dookhan was formally arraigned on 27 charges—17 counts of obstruction of justice, eight counts of tampering with evidence and one count each of perjury and falsification of records. Prosecutors alleged that whenever a second test failed to confirm the initial results, Dookhan would tamper with the vials to make them consistent with the inaccurate results obtained by her dry labbing. She was also charged with falsely certifying results that she knew to be compromised; these certifications were admitted as evidence in court.\n\nOn November 22, 2013, Dookhan was sentenced to three to five years imprisonment and two years probation by Judge Carol S. Ball in Suffolk Superior Court, after pleading guilty to crimes relating to falsifying drug tests. This was greater than the one-year sentence her defense requested but less than the five to seven-year sentence requested by the prosecution. However, Ball said that upward departure was merited due to the ramifications of Dookhan's misconduct. Ball wrote, \"Innocent persons were incarcerated, guilty persons have been released to further endanger the public, millions and millions of public dollars are being expended to deal with the chaos Ms. Dookhan created, and the integrity of the criminal justice system has been shaken to the core.\"\n\nDookhan, Massachusetts Department of Correction inmate F81328, served her sentence at Massachusetts Correctional Institution – Framingham. By April 2016, she had been granted parole and was subsequently released from prison.\n\nIn January 2015, Benjamin Keehn, a prominent defense attorney with the Committee for Public Counsel Services, said that as many as 40,000 people could have been falsely convicted as a result of Dookhan's actions.\n\nIn May 2015, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that defendants whose convictions on drug charges were based on evidence potentially tainted by Dookhan can pursue retrials without having to face more charges or tougher sentences.\n\nOn April 18, 2017, Massachusetts dropped more than 21,000 low-level drug criminal charges involving Dookhan. Out of the 15,570 cases involved in her work only 117 will be pursued according to Daniel Conley, the district attorney in Suffolk County, which includes Boston.\n"}
{"id": "18826036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18826036", "title": "Association football contracts", "text": "Association football contracts\n\nFootball (soccer) contracts are the legal contracts for both amateur and professional football. Football contracts overlaps substantially with labor law, contract law and tort law. Issues like defamation, privacy rights and intellectual property law are also an integral aspect of football contracts. This area been subject to a number of controversies since the 1990s (see the Bosman ruling and the Webster ruling). These cases have coincided with the rebalancing of player power and increased media scrutiny and commercialisation of football. \n\n"}
{"id": "37492528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37492528", "title": "Attorney-General of the Turks and Caicos Islands", "text": "Attorney-General of the Turks and Caicos Islands\n\nThe Attorney-General of the Turks and Caicos Islands is the legal adviser to the Government and House of Assembly of the Turks and Caicos Islands. Previously administered indirectly via Bermuda, Jamaica and the Bahamas, the islands received their own governor and became a separate autonomous British Overseas Territory when Bahamas became independent in 1973.\n\nThe Attorney-General is appointed by the Governor under Section 91 of the 2011 Constitution. Under the 1988 Constitution, appointment and dismissal of the Attorney-General was in the sole discretion of the Governor. The 2006 Constitution added the requirement the Governor must consult with the Premier before appointing the Attorney-General, and may only remove the Attorney-General with the prior approval of the Secretary of State, for inability to discharge the functions of his or her office, or for misbehaviour. The 2011 constitution removed the requirement to consult with the Premier before appointment, but retained the requirement to obtain approval of the Secretary of State for removal. The Turks and Caicos Islands Constitutional and Electoral Reform Project (CER) had initially suggested that the 2011 Constitution provide for the Attorney-General to be appointed by the Premier or the Cabinet (as in other British Overseas Territories and Commonwealth countries) instead of the Governor, but in the end the CER decided to avoid recommending drastic changes to the appointment process, leaving the issue open instead for a potential future constitutional amendment.\n\nSection 125 of the 2011 Constitution newly provides that the remuneration of the Attorney-General should be prescribed by Ordinance, that such remuneration should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and that the level of remuneration shall not be altered to the disadvantage of the Attorney-General save through an Ordinance which makes an equivalent reduction to the remuneration of all members of the public service.\n\nThe power of the Attorney-General to act as legal adviser to the Government and the House of Assembly arises from Section 41 of the 2011 Constitution. The Attorney-General also has a variety of powers with regards to elections:\n\nThe 1988 and 2006 Constitutions gave the Attorney-General broad powers with regards to criminal proceedings. These were, namely, the powers:\nExercise of these powers was \"not subject to the direction or control of any other person or authority\". However, the CER raised the concern about the \"many hats\" worn by the Attorney-General resulting in confusion over the proper functions of the role, and also pointed out that in other parts of the Commonwealth the functions with regards to criminal proceedings were typically vested in a separate Director of Public Prosecutions. As a result, the 2011 Constitution created the new position of Director of Public Prosecutions of the Turks and Caicos Islands and handed these powers over to that officer.\n\nAside from powers in legal proceedings, the Constitution gives other powers to the Attorney-General as well. The Attorney-General is a member of the Cabinet and one of five unelected members of the House of Assembly. The Attorney-General first became a member of the legislature (then, the Legislative Council) under a 1993 amendment to the 1988 constitution, which was continued under the 2006 Constitution. The CER initially recommended that the Attorney-General should be removed entirely as a member of the House of Assembly, though he or she would retain the right to speak in person or appoint a delegate to speak at Assembly meetings. In the end, the 2011 Constitution continued the Attorney-General's membership in the House of Assembly, but stripped him or her of the right to vote.\n\nWhen both the Governor and Deputy Governor are absent from the country or unable to perform the functions of their offices, the Attorney-General becomes the Acting Governor. Similarly, when both the Governor and Deputy Governor are absent from a meeting of the Cabinet, the Attorney-General presides over the meeting. \n\nThe 2006 Constitution made the Attorney-General a member of the newly established five-member Advisory National Security Council. The 2011 Constitution made the Attorney-General of the newly established four-to-six person Mercy Committee (with which the Governor consults on pardons), and provided that the Mercy Committee may only transact business in the presence of the Attorney-General.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4884423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884423", "title": "Barbara Aronstein Black", "text": "Barbara Aronstein Black\n\nBarbara Aronstein Black (born 1933) is an American legal scholar. She was the first woman to head an Ivy League law school. when she became Dean of Columbia Law School in 1986. Black is George Wellwood Murray Professor of Legal History at Columbia.\n\nBlack received her B.A. from Brooklyn College in 1953, her LL.B. from Columbia Law School in 1955, and a Ph.D. from Yale University in 1975. Black was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1989. She was also for two years president of the American Society for Legal History. Black's work has been concentrated in the area of contracts and legal history. She is a recipient of the Elizabeth Blackwell Award and of the Federal Bar Association Prize of Columbia Law School.\n\nBarbara Black is the widow of constitutional scholar and civil rights pioneer Charles Black, with whom she had three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "4345155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4345155", "title": "Bettel v Yim", "text": "Bettel v Yim\n\nBettel v Yim (1978), 20 O.R. (2d) 617 is a famous Canadian tort case from Ontario. The Court established that an individual is liable for all harm that flows from his or her conduct even where the harm was not intended.\n\nTwo young men, Howard Bettel and a friend, threw lighted matches into Ki Yim's store in Metropolitan Toronto, setting fire to a bag of charcoal. Yim ran out of his store, grabbed Bettel, and shook him in an attempt to get Bettel to confess. While shaking him Yim accidentally head-butted Bettel in the nose causing Bettel serious injury.\n\nThe Court held that Yim was liable for the consequences of his action. Citing the rule of transferred intent, the judge stated that the foreseeability rule for negligence does not apply to intentional torts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8927736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8927736", "title": "Citizen observer", "text": "Citizen observer\n\nA citizen observer is a resident appointed by the chief of police, or by the deputy sheriff, who has met the specific application, background and training requirements for patrolling his or her neighborhood or city subdivision to observe and report suspicious persons and criminal activity. A citizen observer also seeks to mediate between law enforcement and civilians in an effort to establish unity between them. Occasionally, a citizen observer helps law enforcement in the patrolling of businesses as well. A citizen observer is a civilian working in behalf of law enforcement and does not have law enforcement titles, authority or prerogatives.\n\nAn organization of citizen observers established by a community is called a \"citizen observer patrol\" (COP). In large cities where a citizen observer patrol is present, crime is often minimized considerably and fewer criminal acts go unreported to authorities. In addition, civilians in the community feel more secure, and better relations exist between law enforcement and them.\n\nCitizenObserver.com is a Saint Paul, MN company founded by former Minnesota state Representative John Jordan and author Scotty Roberts after the shooting of Roberts mom by Harvey LaDoucer. John Jordan and Saint Paul resident Terry Troy, along with Citizen Observer president Terry Halsch, created and patented a set of law enforcement tools now used by a number of police departments throughout the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39885", "title": "Convention on the Future of Europe", "text": "Convention on the Future of Europe\n\nThe Convention on the Future of Europe (officially the European Convention), was a body established by the European Council in December 2001 as a result of the Laeken Declaration. Inspired by the Philadelphia Convention that led to the adoption of the United States federal Constitution, its purpose was to produce a draft constitution for the European Union for the Council to finalise and adopt. The Convention finished its work in July 2003 with their Draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. See History of the European Constitution for developments after this point.\n\nIn December 2001, when the European Council met in Laeken, a fresh declaration was adopted committing the EU to greater democracy, transparency and efficiency, and setting out the process by which a constitution could be arrived at. This was to be achieved by a convention, which was intended to comprise the main 'stakeholders', in order to examine questions about the future direction of the EU. It was to produce a \"final document\", which soon became the draft constitution, to be handed over to the Intergovernmental Conference, scheduled for 2004, which would finalise a new treaty.\n\nThe European Convention was established with 102 members. Former French President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was appointed Chairman, former Italian Prime Minister Giuliano Amato and former Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene were appointed Vice-Chairmen. Its members were drawn from the national parliaments of member states and candidate countries, the European Parliament, the European Commission, and representatives of heads of state and government. The Convention met for the first time in February 2002, and met thereafter in plenary session once or twice per month. It deliberated in public in the European Parliament building in Brussels.\n\nThe 13 member præsidium of the convention consisted of the chairman and vice-chairmen along with:\n\nGovernment Representatives: Ana de Palacio y del Valle-Lersundi (Spain - PP); Henning Christophersen (Denmark - Venstre); Georgios Katiforis (Greece - PASOK).\n\nEuropean Commission Representatives: Michel Barnier - UMP; António Vitorino - PS\n\nEuropean Parliament Representatives: Klaus Hänsch - SPD; Íñigo Méndez de Vigo y Montojo - PP\n\nNational Parliament Representatives: Gisela Stuart, Labour Party UK; John Bruton, FG Ireland\n\nInvitee: Alojz Lojze Peterle - NSi (Slovenia)\n\n"}
{"id": "511626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511626", "title": "Cultured meat", "text": "Cultured meat\n\nCultured meat is meat produced by in vitro cultivation of animal cells, instead of from slaughtered animals. It is a form of cellular agriculture. \n\nCultured meat is produced using many of the same tissue engineering techniques traditionally used in regenerative medicine. The concept of cultured meat was popularized by Jason Matheny in the early 2000s after co-authoring a seminal paper on cultured meat production and creating New Harvest, the world's first non-profit organization dedicated to supporting in vitro meat research.\n\nIn 2013, Mark Post, professor at Maastricht University, was the first to showcase a proof-of-concept for in-vitro lab grown meat by creating the first lab-grown burger patty. Since then, several cultured meat prototypes have gained media attention: however, because of limited dedicated research activities, cultured meat has not yet been commercialized. In addition, it has yet to be seen whether consumers will accept cultured meat as meat. \n\nThe production process still has much room for improvement, but it has advanced in most recent years, leading up to 2018, under various companies. Its applications lead it to have several prospective health, environmental, cultural, and economic considerations in comparison to conventional meat.\n\nBesides \"cultured meat\", the terms in vitro meat, vat-grown, lab-grown meat, cell-based meat, clean meat, and synthetic meat have all been used by various outlets to describe the product.\n\n\"Clean meat\" is an alternative term that is preferred by some journalists, advocates, and organizations that support the technology. According to the Good Food Institute, the name better reflects the production and benefits of the meat and surpassed \"cultured\" and \"in vitro\" in media mentions as well as Google searches.\n\nThe theoretical possibility of growing meat in an industrial setting has long captured the public imagination. Winston Churchill suggested in 1931: \"We shall escape the absurdity of growing a whole chicken in order to eat the breast or wing, by growing these parts separately under a suitable medium.\"\n\nIn vitro cultivation of muscular fibers was performed as early as 1971 by Russell Ross. Indeed, the abstract was \"Smooth muscle derived from the inner media and intima of immature guinea pig aorta were grown for up to 8 weeks in cell culture. The cells maintained the morphology of smooth muscle at all phases of their growth in culture. After growing to confluency, they grew in multiple overlapping layers. By week 4 in culture, microfibrils (110 A) appeared within the spaces between the layers of cells. Basement membrane-like material also appeared adjacent to the cells. Analysis of the microfibrils showed that they have an amino acid composition similar to that of the microfibrillar protein of the intact elastic fiber. These investigations coupled with the radioautographic observations of the ability of aortic smooth muscle to synthesize and secrete extracellular proteins demonstrate that this cell is a connective tissue synthetic cell.\"\nThe culturing of stem cells from animals has been possible since the 1990s, including the production of small quantities of tissue which could, in principle be cooked and eaten. NASA has been conducting experiments since 2001, producing cultured meat from turkey cells. The first edible sample was produced by the NSR/Touro Applied BioScience Research Consortium in 2002: goldfish cells grown to resemble fish fillets.\n\nIn 1998 Jon F. Vein of the United States filed for, and ultimately secured, a patent (US 6,835,390 B1) for the production of tissue engineered meat for human consumption, wherein muscle and fat cells would be grown in an integrated fashion to create food products such as beef, poultry and fish.\n\nIn 2001, dermatologist Wiete Westerhof from the University of Amsterdam, medical doctor Willem van Eelen, and businessman Willem van Kooten announced that they had filed for a worldwide patent on a process to produce cultured meat. In the process, a matrix of collagen is seeded with muscle cells, which are then bathed in a nutritious solution and induced to divide. Scientists in Amsterdam study the culture medium, while the University of Utrecht studies the proliferation of muscle cells, and the Eindhoven University of Technology is researching bioreactors. \n\nIn 2003, Oron Catts and Ionat Zurr of the Tissue Culture and Art Project and Harvard Medical School exhibited in Nantes a \"steak\" a few centimetres wide, grown from frog stem cells, which was cooked and eaten.\n\nThe first peer-reviewed journal article published on the subject of laboratory-grown meat appeared in a 2005 issue of \"Tissue Engineering\".\n\nIn 2008, PETA offered a $1 million prize to the first company to bring lab-grown chicken meat to consumers by 2012. The Dutch government has put US$4 million into experiments regarding cultured meat. The In Vitro Meat Consortium, a group formed by international researchers interested in the technology, held the first international conference on the production of cultured meat, hosted by the Food Research Institute of Norway in April 2008, to discuss commercial possibilities.\n\"Time\" magazine declared cultured meat production to be one of the 50 breakthrough ideas of 2009.\nIn November 2009, scientists from the Netherlands announced they had managed to grow meat in the laboratory using the cells from a live pig.\n\nAs of 2012, 30 laboratories from around the world have announced that they are working on cultured meat research.\n\nThe first cultured beef burger patty, created by Dr. Mark Post at Maastricht University, was eaten at a demonstration for the press in London in August 2013. It was made from over 20,000 thin strands of muscle tissue. This burger cost Dr. Post over $300,000 to make and over 2 years to produce.Two other companies have also begun to culture meat; Memphis Meats in the US and SuperMeat in Israel.\n\nAs of February 2017, a recent report has shown that the price of these cultured burgers has dropped dramatically. Going from roughly over $300,000 to $11.36 in just 3 and a half years. This cost is now only 9-10 times more expensive per pound than standard ground beef.\n\nOn August 5th 2013, the world's first lab-grown burger was cooked and eaten at a news conference in London. Scientists from Maastricht University in the Netherlands, led by professor Mark Post, had taken stem cells from a cow and grown them into strips of muscle which they then combined to make a burger. The burger was cooked by chef Richard McGeown of Couch's Great House Restaurant, Polperro, Cornwall, and tasted by critics Hanni Rützler, a food researcher from the Future Food Studio and Josh Schonwald. Rützler stated,\nThere is really a bite to it, there is quite some flavour with the browning. I know there is no fat in it so I didn't really know how juicy it would be, but there is quite some intense taste; it's close to meat, it's not that juicy, but the consistency is perfect. This is meat to me... It's really something to bite on and I think the look is quite similar.\nRützler added that even in a blind trial she would have taken the product for meat rather than a soya copy.\n\nTissue for the London demonstration was cultivated in May 2013, using about 20,000 thin strips of cultured muscle tissue. Funding of around €250,000 came from an anonymous donor later revealed to be Sergey Brin. Post remarked that \"there’s no reason why it can’t be cheaper...If we can reduce the global herd a millionfold, then I’m happy\".\n\nSince the first public trial, several startups have made advances in the field. \nMosa Meat co-founded by Mark Post continuous research with a focus on cultured beef. The company was able to significantly lower the costs of production. \n\nMemphis Meats, a Silicon Valley startup founded by a cardiologist, launched a video in February 2016 showcasing its cultured beef meatball. In March 2017, it showcased chicken tenders and duck a l’orange, the first cultured poultry-based foods shown to the public.\n\nAn Israeli company, SuperMeat, ran a viral crowdfunding campaign in 2016 for its work on cultured chicken.\n\nFinless Foods, a San Francisco-based company aimed at cultured fish, was founded in June 2016. In March 2017 it commenced laboratory operations and progressed quickly. Director Mike Selden said in July 2017 to expect bringing cultured fish products on the market within two years (by the end of 2019).\n\nIn March 2018, JUST, Inc. (in 2011 founded as Hampton Creek in San Francisco) claimed to be able to present a consumer product from cultured meat by the end of 2018. According to CEO Josh Tetrick the technology is already there, and now it is merely a matter of applying it. Just has about 130 employees and a research department of 55 scientists, where lab meat from poultry, pork and beef is being developed. They would have already solved the problem of feeding the stemcells with only plant resources. Just receives sponsoring from Chinese billionaire Li Ka-shing, Yahoo! cofounder Jerry Yang and according to Tetrick also from Heineken International amongst others.\n\nThe Dutch startup Meatable, consisting of Krijn de Nood, Daan Luining, Ruud Out, Roger Pederson, Mark Kotter and Gordana Apic among others, reported in September 2018 it had succeeded in growing meat using pluripotent stem cells from animals' umbilical cords. Although such cells are reportedly difficult to work with, Meatable claimed to be able to direct them to behave using their proprietary technique in order to become muscle cells or fat cells as needed. The major advantage is that this technique bypasses fetal bovine serum, meaning that no animal has to be killed in order to produce meat. That month, it was estimated there were about 30 cultured meat startups across the world. A Dutch House of Representatives Commission meeting discussed the importance and necessity of governmental support for researching, developing and introducing cultured meat in society, speaking to representatives of three universities, three startups and four civil interest groups on 26 September 2018.\n\nThere are three stages in the production of cultured meat: selection of starter cells, treatment of growth medium, and scaffolding.\n\nThe initial stage of growing cultured meat is to collect cells that have a rapid rate of proliferation (high cell reproduction rate). Such cells include embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells, myosatellite cells, or myoblasts. Stem cells proliferate the quickest, but have not yet begun development towards a specific kind of cell, which creates the challenge of splitting the cells and directing them to grow a certain way. Fully developed muscle cells are ideal in the aspect that they have already finished development as a muscle, but proliferate hardly at all. Therefore, cells such as myosattelite and myoblast cells are often used as they still proliferate at an acceptable rate, but also sufficiently differentiate from other types of cells.\n\nThe cells are then treated by applying a protein that promotes tissue growth, which is known as a growth medium. These mediums should contain the necessary nutrients and appropriate quantity of growth factors. They are then placed in a culture medium, in a bio-reactor, which is able to supply the cells with the energetic requirements they need.\n\nTo culture three-dimensional meat, the cells are grown on a scaffold, which is a component that directs its structure and order. The ideal scaffold is edible so the meat does not have to be removed, and periodically moves to stretch the developing muscle, thereby simulating the animal body during normal development. Additionally the scaffold must maintain flexibility in order to not detach from the developing myotubes (early muscle fibers). Scaffold must also allow vascularization (creation of blood vessels) in order for normal development of muscle tissue.\n\nScaffold-based production techniques can only be appropriately used in boneless or ground meats (processed). The end result of this process would be meats such as hamburgers or sausages. In order to create more structured meats, for example steak, muscle tissue must be structured in directed and self-organized means or by proliferation of muscle tissue already existing. Additionally, the presence of gravitational, magnetic, fluid flow, and mechanical fields have an effect on the proliferation rates of the muscle cells. Processes of tension such as stretching and relaxing increased differentiation into muscle cells.\n\nOnce this process has been started, it would be theoretically possible to continue producing meat indefinitely without introducing new cells from a living organism. It has been claimed that, conditions being ideal, two months of cultured meat production could deliver up to 50,000 tons of meat from ten pork muscle cells.\n\nCultured meat production requires a preservative, such as sodium benzoate, to protect the growing meat from yeast and fungus. Collagen powder, xanthan gum, mannitol and cochineal could be used in different ways during the process.\n\nThe price of cultured meat at retail outlets like grocery stores and supermarkets may decrease to levels that middle-class consumers consider to be \"inexpensive\" due to technological advancements.\n\nThe science for cultured meat is an outgrowth of the field of biotechnology known as tissue engineering. The technology is simultaneously being developed along with other uses for tissue engineering such as helping those with muscular dystrophy and, similarly, growing transplant organs. There are several obstacles to overcome if it has any chance of succeeding; at the moment, the most notable ones are scale and cost.\n\nAdditionally, there is no dedicated scientific research discipline for cellular agriculture and its development. The past research undertaken into cellular agriculture were isolated from each other, and they did not receive significant academic interest. Although it currently exists, long-term strategies are not sufficiently funded for development and severely lack a sufficient amount of researchers.\n\nLarge-scale production of cultured meat may or may not require artificial growth hormones to be added to the culture for meat production.\n\nResearchers have suggested that omega-3 fatty acids could be added to cultured meat as a health bonus. In a similar way, the omega-3 fatty acid content of conventional meat can also be increased by altering what the animals are fed. An issue of \"Time\" magazine has suggested that the cell-cultured process may also decrease exposure of the meat to bacteria and disease.\n\nDue to the strictly controlled and predictable environment, cultured meat production has been compared to vertical farming, and some of its proponents have predicted that it will have similar benefits in terms of reducing exposure to dangerous chemicals like pesticides and fungicides, severe injuries, and wildlife.\n\nConcern in regards to developing antibiotic resistance due to the use of antibiotics in livestock, livestock and livestock-derived meat serving as a major source of disease outbreaks (including bird flu, anthrax, swine flu, and listeriosis), and long-term processed meat consumption being associated with increased heart disease, digestive tract cancer, and type 2 diabetes currently plague livestock-based meat. In regards to cultured meat, strict environmental controls and tissue monitoring can prevent infection of meat cultures from the outset, and any potential infection can be detected before shipment to consumers.\n\nIn addition to the prevention and lack of diseases, and lack of the use of antibiotics or any other chemical substances, cultured meat can also leverage numerous biotechnology advancements, including increased nutrient fortification, individually-customized cellular and molecular compositions, and optimal nutritional profiles, all making it much healthier than livestock-sourced meat.\n\nAlthough cultured meat consists of genuine animal muscle cells that are the same as in traditional meat, consumers may find such a high-tech approach to food production distasteful (see appeal to nature). Cultured meat has been disparagingly described as 'Frankenmeat'.\n\nIf cultured meat turns out to be different in appearance, taste, smell, texture, or other factors, it may not be commercially competitive with conventionally produced meat. The lack of fat and bone may also be a disadvantage, for these parts make appreciable culinary contributions. However, the lack of bones and/or fat may make many traditional meat preparations, such as buffalo wings, more palatable to small children.\n\nResearch has suggested that environmental impacts of cultured meat would be significantly lower than normally slaughtered beef. For every hectare that is used for vertical farming and/or cultured meat manufacturing, anywhere between 10 and 20 hectares of land may be converted from conventional agriculture usage back into its natural state. Vertical farms (in addition to cultured meat facilities) could exploit methane digesters to generate a small portion of its own electrical needs. Methane digesters could be built on site to transform the organic waste generated at the facility into biogas which is generally composed of 65% methane along with other gasses. This biogas could then be burned to generate electricity for the greenhouse or a series of bioreactors.\n\nA study by researchers at Oxford and the University of Amsterdam found that cultured meat was \"potentially ... much more efficient and environmentally-friendly\", generating only 4% greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the energy needs of meat generation by up to 45%, and requiring only 2% of the land that the global meat/livestock industry does. The patent holder Willem van Eelen, the journalist Brendan I. Koerner, and Hanna Tuomisto, a PhD student from Oxford University all believe it has less environmental impact. This is in contrast to cattle farming, \"responsible for 18% of greenhouse gases\" and causing more damage to the environment than the combined effects of the world's transportation system. Vertical farming may completely eliminate the need to create extra farmland in rural areas along with cultured meat. Their combined role may create a sustainable solution for a cleaner environment.\n\nOne skeptic is Margaret Mellon of the Union of Concerned Scientists, who speculates that the energy and fossil fuel requirements of large-scale cultured meat production may be more environmentally destructive than producing food off the land. However, S.L. Davis has speculated that both vertical farming in urban areas and the activity of cultured meat facilities may cause relatively little harm to the species of wildlife that live around the facilities. Dickson Despommier speculated that natural resources may be spared from depletion due to vertical farming and cultured meat, making them ideal technologies for an overpopulated world. Conventional farming, on the other hand, kills ten wildlife animals per hectare each year. Converting of farmland from its man-made condition back into either pristine wilderness or grasslands would save approximately 40 animals while converting of that same farmland back into the state it was in prior to settlement by human beings would save approximately 80 animals.\n\nAdditionally, the cattle industry uses a large amount of water for producing animal feed, animal rearing, and for sanitation purposes. It is estimated that the water recycled from livestock manure is contributing \"33% of global nitrogen and phosphorus pollution,\" \"50% of antibiotic pollution,\" \"37% of toxic heavy metals,\" and \"37% of pesticides\" which contaminate the planet's freshwater.\n\nTechniques of genetic engineering, such as insertion, deletion, silencing, activation, or mutation of a gene, are not required to produce cultured meat. Furthermore, cultured meat is composed of a tissue or collection of tissues, not an organism. Therefore, it is not a GMO (Genetically Modified Organism). Since cultured meats are simply cells grown in a controlled, artificial environment, some have commented that cultured meat more closely resembles hydroponic vegetables, rather than GMO vegetables.\n\nMore research is being done on cultured meat, and although the production of cultured meat does not require techniques of genetic engineering, there is discussion among researchers about utilizing such techniques to improve the quality and sustainability of cultured meat. Fortifying cultured meat with nutrients such as beneficial fatty acids is one improvement that can be facilitated through genetic modification. The same improvement can be made without genetic modification, by manipulating the conditions of the culture medium. Genetic modification may also play a role in the proliferation of muscle cells. The introduction of myogenic regulatory factors, growth factors, or other gene products into muscle cells may increase production past the capacity of conventional meat.\n\nTo avoid the use of any animal products, the use of photosynthetic algae and cyanobacteria has been proposed to produce the main ingredients for the culture media, as opposed to the very commonly used fetal bovine or horse serum. Some researchers suggest that the ability of algae and cyanobacteria to produce ingredients for culture media can be improved with certain technologies, most likely not excluding genetic engineering.\n\nThe Australian bioethicist Julian Savulescu said \n\"Artificial meat stops cruelty to animals, is better for the environment, could be safer and more efficient, and even healthier. We have a moral obligation to support this kind of research. It gets the ethical two thumbs up.\"\nAnimal welfare groups are generally in favor of the production of cultured meat because it does not have a nervous system and therefore cannot feel pain. Reactions of vegetarians to cultured meat vary: some feel the cultured meat presented to the public in August 2013 was not vegetarian as fetal calf serum was used in the growth medium. However, since then lab grown meat has been grown under a medium that doesn't involve fetal serum. \n\nIndependent inquiries may be set up by certain governments to create a degree of standards for cultured meat. Laws and regulations on the proper creation of cultured meat products would have to be modernized to adapt to this newer food product. Some societies may decide to block the creation of cultured meat for the \"good of the people\" – making its legality in certain countries a questionable matter.\n\nCultured meat needs technically sophisticated production methods making it harder for communities to produce food self-sufficiently and potentially increasing dependence on global food corporations. \n\nIndependent inquiries may be set up by certain governments to create a degree of standards for cultured meat. Once cultured meat becomes more cost-efficient, it is necessary to decide who will regulate the safety and standardization of these products. Prior to being available for sale, the European Union and Canada will require approved novel food applications. Additionally, the European Union requires that cultured animal products and production must prove safety, by an approved company application, which became effective as of January 1st, 2018. Within the United States, there is discussion of whether or not cultured meat regulation will be handled by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) or the USDA (United States Department of Agriculture). The main point of content is whether or not cultured meat is labeled as \"food\" and regulated by the FDA or as a \"meat food product\" and regulated by the USDA. Under the FDA, cultured meat would need to follow the FFDCA and have a Food Safety Plan (FSP). Under the USDA, cultured meat would need be regulated by the FSIS who must deem the ingredients safe and usable. It could also be regulated by both government organizations.\n\nJewish rabbinical authorities disagree whether cultured meat is kosher (food that may be consumed, according to Jewish dietary laws). However, most rabbis agree that if the original cells were taken from a kosher animal then the cultured meat will be kosher. Some even think that it would be kosher even if coming from non-kosher animals like pigs, however some disagree. Some Muslim scholars have stated that cultured meat would be allowed by Islamic law if the original cells and growth medium were halal. Within Hindu culture, there is significant importance of cattle in religion where the majority of Hindus reject consumption of a cow's meat. The potential of a \"meatless beef\" has driven debate among Hindus on the acceptance of eating it. A significant amount reject the meat anyways due to the prevalence of a vegetarian diet.\n\nThe production of cultured meat is currently very expensive – in 2008 it was about US$1 million for a piece of beef weighing – and it would take considerable investment to switch to large-scale production. However, the In Vitro Meat Consortium has estimated that with improvements to current technology there could be considerable reductions in the cost of cultured meat. They estimate that it could be produced for €3500/tonne (US$5424/tonne in March 2008), which is about twice the cost of unsubsidized conventional European chicken production.\n\nIn a March 2015 interview with Australia's ABC, Mark Post said that the marginal cost of his team's original €250,000 burger was now €8.00. He estimates that technological advancements would allow the product to be cost-competitive to traditionally sourced beef in approximately ten years. In 2016, the cost of production of cultured beef for food technology company Memphis Meats was . As of June 2017 Memphis Meats reduced the cost of production to below $2,400 per pound ($5,280/kg).\n\nCultured meat has often featured in science fiction. The earliest mention may be in \"Two Planets\" (original German title: \"Auf Zwei Planeten\") (1897) by Kurd Lasswitz, where \"synthetic meat\" is one of the varieties of synthetic food introduced on Earth by Martians. Other notable books mentioning artificial meat include \"Ashes, Ashes\" (1943) by René Barjavel; \"The Space Merchants\" (1952) by Frederik Pohl and C.M. Kornbluth; \"The Restaurant at the End of the Universe\" (1980) by Douglas Adams; \"Le Transperceneige (Snowpiercer)\" (1982) by Jacques Lob and Jean-Marc Rochette; \"Neuromancer\" (1984) by William Gibson; \"Oryx and Crake\" (2003) by Margaret Atwood; \"Deadstock\" (2007) by Jeffrey Thomas; \"Accelerando\" (2005) by Charles Stross; \"Ware Tetralogy\" by Rudy Rucker; and \"Divergent\" (2011) by Veronica Roth.\n\nIn film, artificial meat has featured prominently in Giulio Questi's 1968 drama \"La morte ha fatto l'uovo\" (\"Death Laid an Egg\") and Claude Zidi's 1976 comedy \"L'aile ou la cuisse\" (\"The Wing or the Thigh\"). \"Man-made\" chickens also appear in David Lynch's 1977 surrealist horror, \"Eraserhead\". Most recently, it was also featured prominently as the central theme of the movie \"Antiviral\" (2012).\n\nThe Starship \"Enterprise\" from the TV and movie franchise \"Star Trek\" apparently provides a synthetic meat or \"cultured meat\" as a food source for the crew, although crews from \"The Next Generation\" and later use replicators.\n\nIn the ABC sitcom \"Better Off Ted\" (2009–2010), the episode \"Heroes\" features Phil (Jonathan Slavin) and Lem (Malcolm Barrett) trying to grow cowless beef.\n\nIn the videogame \"Project Eden\", the player characters investigate a cultured meat company called Real Meat.\n\nIn the movie “GalaxyQuest”, during the dinner scene, Tim Allen's character refers to his steak tasting like “real Iowa beef”.\n\nCultured meat was a subject on an episode of the Colbert Report on 17 March 2009.\n\nIn February, 2014, a biotech startup called BiteLabs ran a campaign to generate popular support for artisanal salami made with meat cultured from celebrity tissue samples. The campaign became viral on Twitter, where users tweeted at celebrities asking them to donate muscle cells to the project. Media reactions to BiteLabs variously identified the startup as a satire on startup culture, celebrity culture, or as a discussion prompt on bioethical concerns. While BiteLabs claimed to be inspired by the success of Sergey Brin's burger, the company is seen as an example of critical design rather than an actual business venture.\n\nIn late 2016, cultured meat was involved in a case in the episode \"How The Sausage Is Made\" of CBS show \"Elementary\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24498788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24498788", "title": "Data East USA, Inc. v. Epyx, Inc.", "text": "Data East USA, Inc. v. Epyx, Inc.\n\nData East USA, Inc. v. Epyx, Inc. 862 F.2d 204, 9 U.S.P.Q.2d (BNA) 1322 (9th Cir. 1988), is a court case in which Data East, a video game manufacturer, contended that Epyx, a competing video game manufacturer, licensed and distributed a video game, \"World Karate Championship\", that infringed on the copyright of a video game developed by Data East, \"Karate Champ\". After a district court sided with Data East, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit court on appeal reversed the decision of copyright infringement. This judgment was based on the lack of \"substantial similarity\" between the games, because the identified similarities were inherent to all karate video games.\n\nData East, a video game company, released the \"Karate Champ\" video game in late 1984. It was first released as a coin-operated arcade game, and subsequently in October 1985 as a home computer game. Epyx, another video game company, licensed and began distributing in April 1986 a competing and similar home computer video game under the title \"World Karate Championship\", rebranded from the original \"International Karate\" title, which it had licensed from a British developer System 3.\n\nBoth \"Karate Champ\" and \"World Karate Championship\" depicted a karate match between two opponents. There were several similarities between the two games; combatants each wore white and red, referees looked the same in each game, the allowed moves were similar, and the scoring mechanisms were based on increments and bonus points. Data East alleged that \"World Karate Championship\", and thus Epyx, infringed on their copyright, trademark, and trade dress established by \"Karate Champ\".\n\nThe United States District Court for the Northern District of California decided that Epyx infringed on Data East's copyright, due to the qualitative similarities in the appearance of the games. There was no infringement on trademark or trade dress. The district court then enjoined Epyx from copying, distributing, or preparing any derivative works from the copyrighted work. Additionally, all \"World Karate Championship\" games were recalled. The case was appealed by Epyx to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.\n\nData East asserted that Epyx infringed on their copyright. In order to demonstrate that there is copyright infringement, it is necessary to prove ownership of a copyright and copying of the work. It was not disputed that Data East owned the copyrights for \"Karate Champ\". However, there was no evidence of direct copying of \"Karate Champ\". Thus, in order to demonstrate that their copyright had been infringed, Data East had to show that a) Epyx had access to the copyrighted work prior to creating their own work b) their work exhibited \"substantial similarity\" to the copyrighted work. In the appeal, Epyx disputed that the two games exhibited substantial similarity.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit reversed the district court's finding of copyright infringement by failing to find a substantial similarity between the two games. This judgment was reached based on the notion that \"no substantial similarity of expression will be found when the idea and its expression are inseparable.\"\n\nIn order to determine whether a substantial similarity between the two works existed, the Ninth Circuit applied the \"extrinsic-intrinsic test\". The purpose of this test is to determine if both the ideas and the expression of those ideas are substantially similar in the two works. Both of these tests must pass in order for a finding of substantial similarity to be reached. The extrinsic test, which determines if the ideas embodied by the works are the same, was used to determine that the ideas (\"a martial arts karate combat game conducted between two combatants\") were similar or identical. Next, the intrinsic test, regarding the \"total concept and feel of the works\", was used to determine the similarity of the expression of that idea. Because copyright protection cannot be extended to all elements of an expression, such as expressions that are indispensable or standard to the idea (i.e. Scènes à faire), the court performed an analytic dissection of the similarities between the two games to determine if the similarities were not simply the use of common ideas, and thus protected by copyright.\n\nThe court found the following similarities:\n\nThe similarities were judged by the court to \"encompass the idea of karate\" and necessarily follow from the idea of a karate video game. Thus, the district court was in error because it did not limit the scope of the copyright protection to the unique elements, such as the background and the score keeping. Furthermore, the Ninth Circuit decided that even those elements were dissimilar, concluding that a 17.5-year-old boy (the average age of a consumer of the video game) \"would not find the games substantially similar\". Because the idea and expression are inseparable, the court found that there was no substantial similarity and no copyright infringement.\n\nThe \"Data East\" case is a significant judgment because \"it is the first time in the computer industry that a look-and-feel lawsuit has been decided in favor of the defendant\". The litigation of copyright infringements based on \"look-and-feel\" similarities was fairly new, and previous cases had been settled out of the court, to the benefit of the presumed copyright holder. For example, in 1985, Digital Research had to change some aspects of their Graphics Environment Manager (GEM) product and agreed to pay Apple a financial compensation as part of a settlement that would keep them out of court.\n\nThe opinion of the judges in the \"Data East\" case has been cited in several other major \"look-and-feel\" cases, even those that do not necessarily involve parties from the software industry.\n\nSubsequent cases that cite this case contend over the copyright of the graphical user interfaces, such as in \"Apple Computer, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation\". In this case, the ninth circuit Court of Appeals rejected the argument of \"Apple\" that the extrinsic-intrinsic test had gone too far and should have not happened at all because \"[The district court] should have recognized protectability of arrangements and the total concept and feel of the works under a substantial similarity standard.\" As in \"Data East\", the court ruled for the defendant, considering that \"almost all of the similarities spring either from the license or from basic ideas and their obvious expression\", i.e. that the scènes à faire doctrine invalidates the copyright infringement claim.\n\nIn 1994, Data East faced a copyright infringement claim from Capcom U.S.A. and a preliminary injunction to stop distributing the video game \"Fighter's History\". Although Data East had clearly used Capcom's game \"Street Fighter II\" as a reference in the development of its own game, the preliminary injunction was denied. Under the analytic dissection of the work, the court only found unprotectable similarities, once again relying on the scènes à faire doctrine. Data East's largest objection in court was that their 1984 arcade game \"Karate Champ\" was the true originator of the competitive fighting game genre, which predated the original \"Street Fighter\" by three years.\n\nAn opinion that cites this case outside the computer industry is \"Pasillas v. McDonald's Corporation\". In this case, the plaintiff, the creator of a latex Halloween mask depicting a man in the moon, claims that the advertising campaigns of McDonald's, also depicting a mask with a man in the moon, infringed on his copyright. The court refers to the \"Aliotti line of cases\" for deciding this case. In particular, the intrinsic test of substantial similarity of expression leads the judges to conclude that the very treatment of the idea of a man in the moon is the only source of similarities, and that those similarities are not substantial, explicitly stating the \"Data East\" scènes à faire doctrine that \"no copyright protection is afforded to elements of expression that are indispensable or standard in treatment of idea\".\n\nIndependent observers noted that the intrinsic-extrinsic test used by the Ninth Circuit almost always led to a rejection of the copyright infringement accusation. The extrinsic test is performed by a non-expert observer, who will eventually decide on the presence of a substantial similarity. Indeed, \"a lay observer may mistakenly determine that two user interfaces are similar because they appear similar, even though the details of their implementation may be very different\". Another criticism of the extrinsic-intrinsic test is the \"failure to consider medium and market needs.\" For instance, the printing and the information industry do not share some of the same characteristics. Namely, the marginal costs of copying data in the information industry are typically insignificant compared to the printing industry. These characteristics could be kept in mind when deciding on a substantial similarity, since there are no clear guidelines for making this decision, but \"the preservation of the balance between competition and protection reflected in the patent and copyright laws\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37019945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37019945", "title": "Data Protection (Jersey) Law", "text": "Data Protection (Jersey) Law\n\nThe Data Protection (Jersey) Law is an information privacy law in the Crown Dependency of the Bailiwick of Jersey, one of the Channel Islands. The latest version is 2005, updating the previous law from 1987 to meet a European Directive. It was adopted on 30 June 2004.\n\nThe law implements the European Data Protection Directive of 24 October 1995, which concerns the \"protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data\". These include restrictions on the gathering, collection, and use of personal data, as well as forcing data collectors to let individuals know how their data has been used. Gatherers of data are called \"data controllers\" and must register with the Data Protection Commissioner and pay a yearly fee. The law also contains numerous exemptions for journalism, crime investigation, &c. Other Crown dependencies like Guernsey and the Isle of Man have similar laws. The 2005 law was modelled from the UK's Data Protection Act 1998. These laws can all trace lineage back to the European Directive on Data Protection, 95/EC/46 of 1995 and the Council of Europe's European Convention 108, passed in 1981.\n\nThe 2005 overhaul of the Data Protection laws was prompted by the aforementioned Data Protection Directive. It restricted the transmission of protected data to countries outside of the European Economic Area unless they had been certified as having 'adequacy' in their own data protection laws. Jersey is considered outside of the European Economic Area, and its 1987 Data Protection law was not adequate, so the restrictions could have harmed Jersey's financial services industry. (Jersey is a major international offshore financial centre and tax haven) In 2008 Jersey achieved 'adequacy status' under the EU rules.\n\nJersey's law is modified to suit this finance industry. One such modification exempts Trusts from the law so that they can use personal information of Beneficiaries of the Trust without having to disclose certain details of the usage to the beneficiary. This modification was accomplished through a revision called the \"Subject Access Exemptions\" in 2005.\n\nThe main office of the law is the Data Protection Commissioner (before 2005, called the Data Protection Registrar). The commissioner for the first several years of the law was Emma Martins There is also a Data Protection Tribunal. In 2011 an attempt was made to unify the Commission of Guernsey with that of Jersey so that one Commissioner office would serve both Channel Islands.\n\nIn 2007 charity groups had to change the way they operated the Jersey Christmas Appeal because they kept a list of the families who were nominated to receive vouchers for food, toys, fuel, and other needs during the holidays. The beneficiaries had to send in signed forms agreeing to be on the list.\n\nThe law has been used at least two times against Jersey politicians.\n\nIn 2009, Jersey Senator Stuart Syvret was arrested on charges of violating the law after he blogged an old 1999 police report on a suspected serial killer and rapist Nurse that included the suspect's name. The police investigation had been abandoned for lack of evidence and Syvret had at first accepted this. However over the years Syvret came to believe the government of Jersey was incompetent and corrupt, especially after his experiences as Health Minister during the Jersey child abuse investigation 2008. He came to believe that the \"Nurse M\" (or \"Nurse X\" in court documents) investigation had been incomplete, that the suspect was still dangerous. This was his alleged motivation for blogging the suspects name in 2009. At trial he argued that his actions fell under the exemptions of the Law, but the Magistrate rejected this. In November 2010 he was convicted of violating Articles 17, 21, and 55 of the Data Protection Law and sentenced to 10 weeks imprisonment and a fine. Assistant Magistrate Bridget Shaw gave the analysis and opinion:\n\n\"he must have caused distress to X and his family and risked provoking violence either by or\nagainst X. The defendant also risked causing great distress to relatives of the deceased. In my opinion this was done to create a totally unfounded scandal to undermine public confidence in the administration of justice.\"\n\nIn 2011, Saint Brélade Deputy and Housing Minister Sean Power was forced to resign after he forwarded an email he pulled off a printer in the States Building. The email discussed Syvret.\n\n"}
{"id": "13746446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746446", "title": "Dimmock v Secretary of State for Education and Skills", "text": "Dimmock v Secretary of State for Education and Skills\n\nDimmock v Secretary of State for Education and Skills was a case heard in September–October 2007 in the High Court of Justice of England and Wales, concerning the permissibility of the government providing Al Gore's climate change documentary \"An Inconvenient Truth\" to English state schools as a teaching aid.\n\nThe case was brought by Stewart Dimmock, a lorry (HGV) driver and school governor from Kent, England, a father of two sons who attend a state school. Dimmock has twice stood as a local election candidate for the New Party and received backing for the case from Viscount Monckton, the author of the New Party's manifesto. Monckton, one of the UK's most prominent climate change sceptics, launched an advertising campaign against Al Gore in March 2007 challenging Gore to a public debate on climate change. Monckton has received funding from a Washington-based conservative think tank of which he is chief policy adviser, the Science and Public Policy Institute (SPPI), to create a film, \"Apocalypse No\", which will parody Gore, showing Monckton presenting a slide show making an attack on climate change science.\n\nThe plaintiff sought to prevent the educational use of \"An Inconvenient Truth\" on the grounds that schools are legally required to provide a balanced presentation of political issues. The court ruled that the film was substantially founded upon scientific research and fact and could continue to be shown, but it had a degree of political bias such that teachers would be required to explain the context via guidance notes issued to schools along with the film. The court also identified nine of what the plaintiff called 'errors' in the film which were departures from the scientific mainstream, and ruled that the guidance notes must address these items specifically.\n\nIn October 2006, the Government announced that the academic year 2006/07 would be a \"Sustainable Schools Year of Action\" to promote sustainable development and environmental consciousness. This followed an earlier public consultation on a Sustainable Schools Strategy. As part of the strategy, schools throughout the UK were to be given guidance and educational material on current environmental issues.\n\nRoss Finnie, the Environment Minister of the Scottish Executive, announced on 16 January 2007 that \"An Inconvenient Truth\" would be shown to all secondary school pupils in Scotland, with the costs being underwritten by the energy company ScottishPower. The Department for Education and Skills (DfES) followed suit on 2 February with an announcement that a copy of the film would be sent to all 3,385 secondary schools in England. A month later, the Welsh Assembly Government likewise announced that schools and colleges in Wales would receive a copy of the film. In all three countries, the distribution of the film was accompanied by guidance notes and resources on how climate change fits into the context of the National Curriculum and the Sustainable Schools Year of Action programme. The DVD was also accompanied in English schools by a multimedia CD produced by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs which included two short films about climate change and an animation about the carbon cycle.\n\nThe move was opposed by a group of parents in the New Forest region of Hampshire, who argued that the film was \"inaccurate and politically motivated\" and threatened to take legal action against the Government. The parents' spokesman, Conservative councillor Derek Tipp, asserted that the circulation of the film by the Government amounted to political indoctrination and was in breach of the Education Act 2002.\n\nThe film's distribution was also opposed by Christopher Monckton, 3rd Viscount Monckton of Brenchley, a prominent British sceptic of the theory of anthropogenic global warming. According to Monckton, he \"identified three dozen scientific errors in it\" and prompted an unnamed wealthy friend \"to do something to fight back against this tide of unscientific freedom-destroying nonsense\". Funding for litigation was provided by the friend, and when the government \"didn't reply satisfactorily\", Monckton and his colleagues served papers on the government. The case was brought in May 2007 in the name of Stewart Dimmock, a truck driver and governor at a school in Dover, Kent, who was also a member of the same small political party for which Monckton had written a manifesto. In papers lodged at the High Court in London, the plaintiffs argued that showing the film would violate section 406(1)(b) of the Education Act 1996. The Act requires that local education authorities, school governing bodies and head teachers \"shall forbid... the promotion of partisan political views in the teaching of any subject in the school\". Alternatively, the plaintiffs submitted, showing the film was unlawful because it did not provide \"a balanced presentation of opposing views\" as required by section 407. Dimmock petitioned the court to enjoin the Government from showing \"An Inconvenient Truth\" in English schools. Although he did not publicly explain his motivation, he was reported to feel \"very strongly that this is an attempt to brainwash children with flawed science.\" The behind-the-scenes role of Monckton and the other global warming sceptics was disclosed much later, in an interview given by Monckton to the conservative American talk show host Glenn Beck in March 2008.\n\nThe initial written application to challenge the Government was refused in July 2007. On 27 September 2007, however, permission was granted at an oral hearing with a three-day judicial review before Justice Michael Burton following immediately thereafter.\n\nDimmock's counsel asserted that the film was \"partisan, aimed at influencing rather than informing, and lacked balance\", and that it contained \"serious scientific inaccuracies, political propaganda and sentimental mush.\" The court was told that Dimmock had been widely supported by \"[l]ots of parents [who] have written to him supporting his application. They do not want our children brainwashed in this way by the New Labour Thought Police.\"\n\nIn response, the Government's counsel said that the guidance notes that accompanied the DVD of \"An Inconvenient Truth\" meant that the overall package was politically balanced. Teachers could present the film in any way they wished but could provide balance by explaining to pupils that some of Gore's views were political and asking them for their views. The Government offered to modify the guidance notes to meet specific scientific concerns. On the last day of the hearing, 2 October, the judge announced that he would be saying in his formal written judgment that the film did promote \"partisan political views\" and teachers would have to inform pupils that there were other opinions on global warming and they should not necessarily accept the views of the film. However, he stated that \"I will be declaring that, with the guidance as now amended, it will not be unlawful for the film to be shown.\"\n\nJustice Burton's written judgment was released on 10 October 2007. He found that it was clear that the film \"is substantially founded upon scientific research and fact, albeit that the science is used, in the hands of a talented politician and communicator, to make a political statement and to support a political programme.\" The necessary amendments made to the related guidance notes make it clear what the mainstream view is, insofar as the film departs from it. The notes also explain that there are views of sceptics who do not accept the consensus reached by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Given these amendments, the judge considered that the film was put in a context in which a balanced presentation of opposing views was offered and where it could be shown to students in compliance with the law. Given a proper context, the requirement for a balanced presentation did not warrant that equal weight be given to alternative views of a mainstream view.\n\nThe judge concluded \"I have no doubt that Dr Stott, the Defendant's expert, is right when he says that: 'Al Gore's presentation of the causes and likely effects of climate change in the film was broadly accurate.'\" On the basis of testimony from Dr. Robert M. Carter and the arguments put forth by the claimant's lawyers, the judge also pointed to nine of the statements that Dimmock's counsel had described as \"errors\" as inaccuracies; i.e, that were not representative of the mainstream. He also found that some of these statements arose in the context of supporting Al Gore's political thesis. The judge required that the guidance notes should address these statements.\n\nThe judge described nine statements by Gore as departures from the scientific mainstream. However, Al Gore's spokesman has disputed this characterisation of the nine statements, which were as follows:\n\n\nThe Minister of Children, Young People and Families, Kevin Brennan, declared the outcome a victory for the government, stating: \"We have updated the accompanying guidance, as requested by the judge to make it clearer for teachers as to the stated Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change position on a number of scientific points raised in the film.\"\n\nStewart Dimmock also declared victory but expressed dissatisfaction at the verdict, saying that \"no amount of turgid guidance\" could change his view that the film was unsuitable for the classroom.\n\nMr Justice Burton declared the case a victory for the claimant stating \"I conclude that the claimant substantially won this case by virtue of my finding that, but for the new guidance note, the film would have been distributed in breach of sections 406 and 407 of the 1996 Education Act\".\n\nA spokesman for Al Gore stated that, \"Of the thousands of facts in the film, the judge only took issue with just a handful. And of that handful, we have the studies to back those pieces up.\"\n\nThe verdict was criticised by the National Union of Teachers, which stated that it was \"inappropriate for a judge to dictate how films or other creative work was taught in schools.\"\n\nViscount Monckton criticised the judge, whom he claimed had been \"a Labour [Party] candidate before\", and asserted that the Government had \"decided that for the sake of retaining what little scientific credibility the office still has, they better admit this were errors and once they admitted them, the judge, even though he wanted to, couldn't find that Gore's film was accurate.\"\n\nIn July 2009, Gore was interviewed by Heather Ewart of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. In the interview, Gore was questioned about Justice Burton's ruling that there were \"nine errors\" in the film. Gore commented that \"the ruling was in my favour.\"\n\nDimmock's legal costs were said to be around £200,000. He was awarded only two-thirds of his costs and is reported to have received a bill of more than £60,000 for the remainder.\n\nThe question of the lawsuit's funding was raised in September 2007, even before the case had concluded, by a report in \"The Daily Telegraph\" which wondered \"Where will the money come from?\". According to Stewart Dimmock's solicitor, it was \"a private matter for him\". However, the \"Telegraph\" noted that Dimmock was a member of the New Party, a small right-wing party with a record of climate change scepticism. The party declares that \"political opportunism and alarmism have combined in seizing [the IPCC's] conclusions to push forward an agenda of taxation and controls that may ultimately be ineffective in tackling climate change, but will certainly be damaging to our economy and society\". The New Party was reported to be backing Dimmock. It issued a press release on 1 October 2007 in which it publicised the case and declared, somewhat prematurely, that \"it is becoming increasingly unlikely that the film will ever be shown as intended.\" In March 2008, the New Party's manifesto-writer Christopher Monckton, 3rd Viscount Monckton of Brenchley acknowledged he had prompted an unnamed wealthy friend to fund the case and that he had himself been heavily involved in the litigation. \"The Observer\" reported at the time that Dimmock's backers were \"a powerful network of business interests with close links to the fuel and mining lobbies.\" The chairman of the New Party, Robert Durward, has been described as \"a long-time critic of environmentalists\" who established a climate change sceptic group called the Scientific Alliance. The alliance publicised Dimmock's case on its website and was also involved in advising Channel 4 on the controversial documentary \"The Great Global Warming Swindle\", which Viscount Monckton is distributing to schools as a riposte to \"An Inconvenient Truth\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48211145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48211145", "title": "Dorrite", "text": "Dorrite\n\nDorrite is a silicate mineral that is isostructural to the aenigmatite group. Although it is most chemically similar to the mineral rhönite [CaMgTi(AlSi)O], the lack of titanium (Ti) and presence of Fe influenced dorrite's independence. Dorrite is named for Dr. John (Jack) A. Dorr, a late professor at the University of Michigan that researched in outcrops where dorrite was found in 1982. This mineral is sub-metallic resembling colors of brownish-black, dark brown, to reddish brown.\n\nDorrite was first reported in 1982 by A. Havette in a basalt-limestone contact on Réunion Island off of the coast of Africa. The second report of dorrite was made by Franklin Foit and his associates while examining a paralava from the Powder River Basin, Wyoming in 1987. Analyses determined that this newly found mineral was surprisingly similar to the mineral rhönite, lacking Ti but presenting dominant Fe in its octahedral sites. Other minerals that coexist with this phase are plagioclase, gehlenite-akermanite, magnetite-magnesioferrite-spinel solid solutions, esseneite, nepheline, wollastonite, Ba-rich feldspar, apatite, ulvöspinel, ferroan sahamalite, and secondary barite, and calcite.\n\nDorrite can be found in mineral reactions that relate dorrite + magnetite + clinopyroxene, rhönite + magnetite + olivine + clinopyroxene, and aenigmatite + pyroxene + olivine assemblages in nature. These assemblages favor low pressures and high temperatures. Dorrite is stable in strongly oxidizing, high-temperature, low-pressure environments. It occurs in paralava, pyrometamorphic melt rock, formed from the burning of coal beds.\n\nResearchers conclusively determined that dorrite is triclinic-pseudomonoclinic and twinned by a twofold rotation about the pseudomonoclinic b axis. The parameters for dorrite are a=10.505, b=10.897, c=9.019 Å, α=106.26°, β=95.16°, γ=124.75°.\n\nCalcium 8.97%<br>Magnesium 5.44%<br>Aluminum 6.04%<br>Iron 37.48%<br>Silicon 6.28%<br>Oxygen 35.79%\n\nCaO 12.55%<br>MgO 9.02%<br>AlO 11.41%<br>FeO 53.59%<br>SiO 13.44%\n"}
{"id": "46583685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46583685", "title": "Employers' liability act of 1880", "text": "Employers' liability act of 1880\n\nThe Employers' Liability Act of 1880 was an act passed on 7 September 1880 by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It enabled workers to seek compensation for injuries resulting from the negligence of a fellow employee.\n\nPrior to the passing of the Employers' Liability Act, it was impossible for a worker to hold his employer responsible for injuries caused by his foreman or another worker's negligence. This was because the standard line of thought on the matter at the time was expressed by the doctrine of Common Employment, which stated that “if the person occasioning and the person suffering the injury are fellow workmen, engaged in a common employment, the employer is not responsible.”This doctrine of Common Employment was first established in the 1837 \"Priestly v. Fowler\" decision Another legal principle at the time, supposedly dating back to the origin of English Common Law that “a personal action dies with the person entitled to maintain it,” (Actio personalis moritur cum persona) meant that the family members of a deceased worker could not claim compensation.\nSeveral workmen's associations wished to see the doctrine of Common Employment repealed, as they felt \"Priestley v Fowler\" ushered in an unfair and damaging interpretation of the law.In response, Parliament formed a committee to consider evidence on the subject in 1877, and after numerous drafts and revisions, the Employers' Liability Act of 1880 was passed on 7 September.It is probable that the bill was passed as much out of a desire to correct inconsistencies with the fact that employers were responsible for any injuries to strangers caused by those in their employ.\n\nThe act states that any worker (or an immediate family member) is entitled to compensation for injury (or death) when the injury was caused by a defect in equipment or machinery, negligence of any person given authority over the worker by the employer, or an act or omission made by following the orders or bylaws of the employer or their representative. It also specifies that in the case of rail workers, an employer may be held responsible for the negligence of any person in \"control of any signal, points, locomotive engine, or train upon a railway.\" The act also placed limits on how much compensation an injured party (or their representative if deceased) could seek. The maximum was set at what someone in the same job in the same location could have expected to earn in the three years leading up to the injury.\n\nThe Employers' Liability Act provided a way for workers to seek compensation when it was demonstrated that the injury was caused by a fellow employee. However, if the person at fault was not a fellow employee – for example, if they were someone working on the same project but contracted to a different employer – then that person's common law liability would remain, and they would be the responsible party. Not all workers opted to rely on this legislation. Many chose instead to participate in benefit plans that were mutually financed by employer and employee, which would provide for compensation in the case of injury. As many as 25% of railway workers may have chosen to rely on these mutual insurance plans.\n\nThe Employers' Liability Act was replaced by the Workmen's Compensation Act 1897, which removed the requirement that the injured party prove who was responsible for the injury – instead they only needed to show that the injury had occurred on the job.\n\n"}
{"id": "10091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091", "title": "Environmental law", "text": "Environmental law\n\nEnvironmental law, also known as environmental and natural resources law, is a collective term describing the network of treaties, statutes, regulations, common and customary laws addressing the effects of human activity on the natural environment. The core environmental law regimes address environmental pollution. A related but distinct set of regulatory regimes, now strongly influenced by environmental legal principles, focus on the management of specific natural resources, such as forests, minerals, or fisheries. Other areas, such as environmental impact assessment, may not fit neatly into either category, but are nonetheless important components of environmental law.<section end=scope />\n\nEarly examples of legal enactments designed to consciously preserve the environment, for its own sake or human enjoyment, are found throughout history. In the common law, the primary protection was found in the law of nuisance, but this only allowed for private actions for damages or injunctions if there was harm to land. Thus smells emanating from pig sties, strict liability against dumping rubbish, or damage from exploding dams. Private enforcement, however, was limited and found to be woefully inadequate to deal with major environmental threats, particularly threats to common resources. During the \"Great Stink\" of 1858, the dumping of sewerage into the River Thames began to smell so ghastly in the summer heat that Parliament had to be evacuated. Ironically, the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers Act 1848 had allowed the Metropolitan Commission for Sewers to close cesspits around the city in an attempt to \"clean up\" but this simply led people to pollute the river. In 19 days, Parliament passed a further Act to build the London sewerage system. London also suffered from terrible air pollution, and this culminated in the \"Great Smog\" of 1952, which in turn triggered its own legislative response: the Clean Air Act 1956. The basic regulatory structure was to set limits on emissions for households and business (particularly burning coal) while an inspectorate would enforce compliance.\n\nNotwithstanding early analogues, the concept of \"environmental law\" as a separate and distinct body of law is a twentieth-century development. The recognition that the natural environment was fragile and in need of special legal protections, the translation of that recognition into legal structures, the development of those structures into a larger body of \"environmental law,\" and the strong influence of environmental law on natural resource laws, did not occur until about the 1960s. At that time, numerous influences - including a growing awareness of the unity and fragility of the biosphere; increased public concern over the impact of industrial activity on natural resources and human health; the increasing strength of the regulatory state; and more broadly the advent and success of environmentalism as a political movement - coalesced to produce a huge new body of law in a relatively short period of time. While the modern history of environmental law is one of continuing controversy, by the end of the twentieth century environmental law had been established as a component of the legal landscape in all developed nations of the world, many developing ones, and the larger project of international law.\n\nthese are studied in enviromental studies\n\nWater quality laws \n\nWaste management laws \n\nEnvironmental cleanup laws \n\nChemical safety laws govern the use of chemicals in human activities, particularly man-made chemicals in modern industrial applications. As contrasted with media-oriented environmental laws (e.g., air or water quality laws), chemical control laws seek to manage the (potential) pollutants themselves. Regulatory efforts include banning specific chemical constituents in consumer products (e.g., Bisphenol A in plastic bottles), and regulating pesticides.\n\nEnvironmental impact assessment \n\nWater resources laws govern the ownership and use of water resources, including surface water and ground water. Regulatory areas may include water conservation, use restrictions, and ownership regimes.\n\nMineral resource laws cover \n\nWildlife laws govern the potential impact of human activity on wild animals, whether directly on individuals or populations, or indirectly via habitat degradation. Similar laws may operate to protect plant species. Such laws may be enacted entirely to protect biodiversity, or as a means for protecting species deemed important for other reasons. Regulatory efforts may including the creation of special conservation statuses, prohibitions on killing, harming, or disturbing protected species, efforts to induce and support species recovery, establishment of wildlife refuges to support conservation, and prohibitions on trafficking in species or animal parts to combat poaching.\n\nFish and game laws regulate the right to pursue and take or kill certain kinds of fish and wild animal (game). Such laws may restrict the days to harvest fish or game, the number of animals caught per person, the species harvested, or the weapons or fishing gear used. Such laws may seek to balance dueling needs for preservation and harvest and to manage both environment and populations of fish and game. Game laws can provide a legal structure to collect license fees and other money which is used to fund conservation efforts as well as to obtain harvest information used in wildlife management practice.\n\nEnvironmental law has developed in response to emerging awareness of and concern over issues impacting the entire world. While laws have developed piecemeal and for a variety of reasons, some effort has gone into identifying key concepts and guiding principles common to environmental law as a whole. The principles discussed below are not an exhaustive list and are not universally recognized or accepted. Nonetheless, they represent important principles for the understanding of environmental law around the world.\n\nDefined by the United Nations Environment Programme as \"development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs,\" sustainable development may be considered together with the concepts of \"integration\" (development cannot be considered in isolation from sustainability) and \"interdependence\" (social and economic development, and environmental protection, are interdependent). Laws mandating environmental impact assessment and requiring or encouraging development to minimize environmental impacts may be assessed against this principle.\n\nThe modern concept of sustainable development was a topic of discussion at the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm Conference), and the driving force behind the 1983 World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED, or Bruntland Commission). In 1992, the first UN Earth Summit resulted in the Rio Declaration, Principle 3 of which reads: \"The right to development must be fulfilled so as to equitably meet developmental and environmental needs of present and future generations.\" Sustainable development has been a core concept of international environmental discussion ever since, including at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Earth Summit 2002), and the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Earth Summit 2012, or Rio+20).\n\nDefined by UNEP to include intergenerational equity - \"the right of future generations to enjoy a fair level of the common patrimony\" - and intragenerational equity - \"the right of all people within the current generation to fair access to the current generation's entitlement to the Earth's natural resources\" - environmental equity considers the present generation under an obligation to account for long-term impacts of activities, and to act to sustain the global environment and resource base for future generations. Pollution control and resource management laws may be assessed against this principle.\n\nDefined in the international law context as an obligation to protect one's own environment, and to prevent damage to neighboring environments, UNEP considers transboundary responsibility at the international level as a potential limitation on the rights of the sovereign state. Laws that act to limit externalities imposed upon human health and the environment may be assessed against this principle.\n\nIdentified as essential conditions for \"accountable governments... industrial concerns,\" and organizations generally, public participation and transparency are presented by UNEP as requiring \"effective protection of the human right to hold and express opinions and to seek, receive and impart ideas... a right of access to appropriate, comprehensible and timely information held by governments and industrial concerns on economic and social policies regarding the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of the environment, without imposing undue financial burdens upon the applicants and with adequate protection of privacy and business confidentiality,\" and \"effective judicial and administrative proceedings.\" These principles are present in environmental impact assessment, laws requiring publication and access to relevant environmental data, and administrative procedure.\n\nOne of the most commonly encountered and controversial principles of environmental law, the Rio Declaration formulated the precautionary principle as follows:\n\nThe principle may play a role in any debate over the need for environmental regulation.\n\nThe polluter pays principle stands for the idea that \"the environmental costs of economic activities, including the cost of preventing potential harm, should be internalized rather than imposed upon society at large.\" All issues related to responsibility for cost for environmental remediation and compliance with pollution control regulations involve this principle.\n\nEnvironmental law is a continuing source of controversy. Debates over the necessity, fairness, and cost of environmental regulation are ongoing, as well as regarding the appropriateness of regulations vs. market solutions to achieve even agreed-upon ends.\n\nAllegations of scientific uncertainty fuel the ongoing debate over greenhouse gas regulation, and are a major factor in debates over whether to ban particular pesticides. In cases where the science is well-settled, it is not unusual to find that corporations intentionally hide or distort the facts, or sow confusion.\n\nIt is very common for regulated industry to argue against environmental regulation on the basis of cost. Difficulties arise in performing cost-benefit analysis of environmental issues. It is difficult to quantify the value of an environmental value such as a healthy ecosystem, clean air, or species diversity. Many environmentalists' response to pitting economy vs. ecology is summed up by former Senator and founder of Earth Day Gaylord Nelson, \"The economy is a wholly owned subsidiary of the environment, not the other way around.\" Furthermore, environmental issues are seen by many as having an ethical or moral dimension, which would transcend financial cost. Even so, there are some efforts underway to systemically recognize environmental costs and assets, and account for them properly in economic terms.\n\nWhile affected industries spark controversy in fighting regulation, there are also many environmentalists and public interest groups who believe that current regulations are inadequate, and advocate for stronger protection. Environmental law conferences - such as the annual Public Interest Environmental Law Conference in Eugene, Oregon - typically have this focus, also connecting environmental law with class, race, and other issues.\n\nAn additional debate is to what extent environmental laws are fair to all regulated parties. For instance, researchers Preston Teeter and Jorgen Sandberg highlight how smaller organizations can often incur disproportionately larger costs as a result of environmental regulations, which can ultimately create an additional barrier to entry for new firms, thus stifling competition and innovation.\n\nGlobal and regional environmental issues are increasingly the subject of international law. Debates over environmental concerns implicate core principles of international law and have been the subject of numerous international agreements and declarations.\n\nCustomary international law is an important source of international environmental law. These are the norms and rules that countries follow as a matter of custom and they are so prevalent that they bind all states in the world. When a principle becomes customary law is not clear cut and many arguments are put forward by states not wishing to be bound. Examples of customary international law relevant to the environment include the duty to warn other states promptly about icons of an environmental nature and environmental damages to which another state or states may be exposed, and Principle 21 of the Stockholm Declaration ('good neighbourliness' or sic utere).\n\nNumerous legally binding international agreements encompass a wide variety of issue-areas, from terrestrial, marine and atmospheric pollution through to wildlife and biodiversity protection. International environmental agreements are generally multilateral (or sometimes bilateral) treaties (a.k.a. convention, agreement, protocol, etc.). Protocols are subsidiary agreements built from a primary treaty. They exist in many areas of international law but are especially useful in the environmental field, where they may be used to regularly incorporate recent scientific knowledge. They also permit countries to reach agreement on a framework that would be contentious if every detail were to be agreed upon in advance. The most widely known protocol in international environmental law is the Kyoto Protocol, which followed from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.\n\nWhile the bodies that proposed, argued, agreed upon and ultimately adopted existing international agreements vary according to each agreement, certain conferences, including 1972's United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, 1983's World Commission on Environment and Development, 1992's United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and 2002's World Summit on Sustainable Development have been particularly important. Multilateral environmental agreements sometimes create an International Organization, Institution or Body responsible for implementing the agreement. Major examples are the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).\n\nInternational environmental law also includes the opinions of international courts and tribunals. While there are few and they have limited authority, the decisions carry much weight with legal commentators and are quite influential on the development of international environmental law. One of the biggest challenges in international decisions is to determine an adequate compensation for environmental damages. The courts include the International Court of Justice (ICJ), the international Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), the European Court of Justice, European Court of Human Rights and other regional treaty tribunals.\n\nAccording to the International Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement (INECE), the major environmental issues in Africa are “drought and flooding, air pollution, deforestation, loss of biodiversity, freshwater availability, degradation of soil and vegetation, and widespread poverty.” The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is focused on the “growing urban and industrial pollution, water quality, electronic waste and indoor air from cookstoves.” They hope to provide enough aid on concerns regarding pollution before their impacts contaminate the African environment as well as the global environment. By doing so, they intend to “protect human health, particularly vulnerable populations such as children and the poor.” In order to accomplish these goals in Africa, EPA programs are focused on strengthening the ability to enforce environmental laws as well as public compliance to them. Other programs work on developing stronger environmental laws, regulations, and standards.\n\nThe Asian Environmental Compliance and Enforcement Network (AECEN) is an agreement between 16 Asian countries dedicated to improving cooperation with environmental laws in Asia. These countries include Cambodia, China, Indonesia, India, Maldives, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Nepal, Philippines, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam, and Lao PDR.\n\nThe European Union issues secondary legislation on environmental issues that are valid throughout the EU (so called regulations) and many directives that must be implemented into national legislation from the 28 member states (national states). Examples are the Regulation (EC) No. 338/97 on the implementation of CITES; or the Natura 2000 network the centerpiece for nature & biodiversity policy, encompassing the bird Directive (79/409/EEC/ changed to 2009/147/EC)and the habitats directive (92/43/EEC). Which are made up of multiple SACs (Special Areas of Conservation, linked to the habitats directive) & SPAs (Special Protected Areas, linked to the bird directive), throughout Europe.\n\nEU legislation is ruled in Article 249 Treaty for the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Topics for common EU legislation are:\n\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is working with countries in the Middle East to improve “environmental governance, water pollution and water security, clean fuels and vehicles, public participation, and pollution prevention.”\n\nThe main concerns on environmental issues in the Oceanic Region are “illegal releases of air and water pollutants, illegal logging/timber trade, illegal shipment of hazardous wastes, including e-waste and ships slated for destruction, and insufficient institutional structure/lack of enforcement capacity”. The Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environmental Programme (SPREP) is an international organization between Australia, the Cook Islands, FMS, Fiji, France, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, PNG, Samoa, Solomon Island, Tonga, Tuvalu, USA, and Vanuatu. The SPREP was established in order to provide assistance in improving and protecting the environment as well as assure sustainable development for future generations.\n\nThe Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 is the center piece of environmental legislation in the Australian Government. It sets up the “legal framework to protect and manage nationally and internationally important flora, fauna, ecological communities and heritage places”. It also focuses on protecting world heritage properties, national heritage properties, wetlands of international importance, nationally threatened species and ecological communities, migratory species, Commonwealth marine areas, Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, and the environment surrounding nuclear activities. \"Commonwealth v Tasmania\" (1983), also known as the \"Tasmanian Dam Case\", is the most influential case for Australian environmental law.\n\nThe Brazilian government created the Ministry of Environment in 1992 in order to develop better strategies of protecting the environment, use natural resources sustainably, and enforce public environmental policies. The Ministry of Environment has authority over policies involving environment, water resources, preservation, and environmental programs involving the Amazon.\n\nThe Department of the Environment Act establishes the Department of the Environment in the Canadian government as well as the position Minister of the Environment. Their duties include “the preservation and enhancement of the quality of the natural environment, including water, air and soil quality; renewable resources, including migratory birds and other non-domestic flora and fauna; water; meteorology;\" The Environmental Protection Act is the main piece of Canadian environmental legislation that was put into place March 31, 2000. The Act focuses on “respecting pollution prevention and the protection of the environment and human health in order to contribute to sustainable development.\" Other principle federal statutes include the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, and the Species at Risk Act. When provincial and federal legislation are in conflict federal legislation takes precedence, that being said individual provinces can have their own legislation such as Ontario's Environmental Bill of Rights, and Clean Water Act.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, \"China has been working with great determination in recent years to develop, implement, and enforce a solid environmental law framework. Chinese officials face critical challenges in effectively implementing the laws, clarifying the roles of their national and provincial governments, and strengthening the operation of their legal system.\" Explosive economic and industrial growth in China has led to significant environmental degradation, and China is currently in the process of developing more stringent legal controls. The harmonization of Chinese society and the natural environment is billed as a rising policy priority.\n\nWith the enactment of the 2008 Constitution, Ecuador became the first country in the world to codify the Rights of Nature. The Constitution, specifically Articles 10 and 71-74, recognizes the inalienable rights of ecosystems to exist and flourish, gives people the authority to petition on the behalf of ecosystems, and requires the government to remedy violations of these rights. The rights approach is a break away from traditional environmental regulatory systems, which regard nature as property and legalize and manage degradation of the environment rather than prevent it. \nThe Rights of Nature articles in Ecuador's constitution are part of a reaction to a combination of political, economic, and social phenomena. Ecuador's abusive past with the oil industry, most famously the class-action litigation against Chevron, and the failure of an extraction-based economy and neoliberal reforms to bring economic prosperity to the region has resulted in the election of a New Leftist regime, led by President Rafael Correa, and sparked a demand for new approaches to development. In conjunction with this need, the principle of \"Buen Vivir,\" or good living—focused on social, environmental and spiritual wealth versus material wealth—gained popularity among citizens and was incorporated into the new constitution.\n\nThe influence of indigenous groups, from whom the concept of \"Buen Vivir\" originates, in the forming of the constitutional ideals also facilitated the incorporation of the Rights of Nature as a basic tenet of their culture and conceptualization of \"Buen Vivir.\" \n\nThe Environmental Protection Law outlines the responsibilities of the Egyptian government to “preparation of draft legislation and decrees pertinent to environmental management, collection of data both nationally and internationally on the state of the environment, preparation of periodical reports and studies on the state of the environment, formulation of the national plan and its projects, preparation of environmental profiles for new and urban areas, and setting of standards to be used in planning for their development, and preparation of an annual report on the state of the environment to be prepared to the President.\"\n\nIn India, Environmental law is governed by the Environment Protection Act, 1986. This act is enforced by the Central Pollution Control Board and the numerous State Pollution Control Boards. Apart from this, there are also individual legislations specifically enacted for the protection of Water, Air, Wildlife, etc. Such legislations include :- \n\nThe Basic Environmental Law is the basic structure of Japan’s environmental policies replacing the Basic Law for Environmental Pollution Control and the Nature Conservation Law. The updated law aims to address “global environmental problems, urban pollution by everyday life, loss of accessible natural environment in urban areas and degrading environmental protection capacity in forests and farmlands.”\n\nThe three basic environmental principles that the Basic Environmental Law follows are “the blessings of the environment should be enjoyed by the present generation and succeeded to the future generations, a sustainable society should be created where environmental loads by human activities are minimized, and Japan should contribute actively to global environmental conservation through international cooperation.”\nFrom these principles, the Japanese government have established policies such as “environmental consideration in policy formulation, establishment of the Basic Environment Plan which describes the directions of long-term environmental policy, environmental impact assessment for development projects, economic measures to encourage activities for reducing environmental load, improvement of social infrastructure such as sewerage system, transport facilities etc., promotion of environmental activities by corporations, citizens and NGOs, environmental education, and provision of information, promotion of science and technology.\"\n\nThe Ministry for the Environment and Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for the Environment were established by the Environment Act 1986. These positions are responsible for advising the Minister on all areas of environmental legislation. A common theme of New Zealand’s environmental legislation is sustainably managing natural and physical resources, fisheries, and forests. The Resource Management Act 1991 is the main piece of environmental legislation that outlines the government’s strategy to managing the “environment, including air, water soil, biodiversity, the coastal environment, noise, subdivision, and land use planning in general.”\n\nThe Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Federation makes regulation regarding “conservation of natural resources, including the subsoil, water bodies, forests located in designated conservation areas, fauna and their habitat, in the field of hunting, hydrometeorology and related areas, environmental monitoring and pollution control, including radiation monitoring and control, and functions of public environmental policy making and implementation and statutory regulation.\"\n\nVietnam is currently working with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on dioxin remediation and technical assistance in order to lower methane emissions. In March 2002, the U.S and Vietnam signed the U.S.-Vietnam Memorandum of Understanding on Research on Human Health and the Environmental Effects of Agent Orange/Dioxin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57079541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57079541", "title": "Erhard Blankenburg", "text": "Erhard Blankenburg\n\nErhard Blankenburg (October 30, 1938 – March 28, 2018) was a German sociologist, specializing in the sociology of law.\nBlankenburg studied philosophy, sociology and German literature at the University of Freiburg and the Free University Berlin. He received an MA from the University of Oregon (1965) and a PhD (D.Phil.) from the University of Basel (1966). After working as an assistant to the sociologist Heinrich Popitz at the University of Freiburg (1966-1968), he received there his habilitation (1974). From 1975 to 1980, Blankenburg worked at the renowned Wissenschaftszentrums Berlin. In 1980 he became professor of sociology of law at the Free University Amsterdam\n\nIn the 1970s, he was, along with Wolfgang Kaupen, Rüdiger Lautmann and Volkmar Gessner, instrumental in reviving sociology of law in Germany. There, he was among the founders of the \"Zeitschrift für Rechtssoziologie\", still the leading journal in the German socio-legal community. He also played a role in establishing the International Institute for the Sociology of Law. In 1991, together with Bill Felstiner, he organized the first joint meeting of the Law and Society Association and the Research Committee on Sociology of Law, the two leading organizations of socio-legal scholars in Amsterdam. His research covered a broad range of socio-legal topics, with an interest in describing and comparing legal cultures at the centre.\n\nIn 2005, Blankenburg received, at the annual conference of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law in Paris, the Adam Podgórecki Prize \"for outstanding achievements in socio-legal research\".\n\"Blankenburg has given us an important body of work. It is work that is (and should be) extremely influential in the field; and no respectable sociologist of law can afford to ignore it. For this he deserves out thanks and our congratulation\" (Friedman 1998, 386).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4136175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136175", "title": "Fire protection", "text": "Fire protection\n\nFire protection is the study and practice of mitigating the unwanted effects of potentially destructive fires. It involves the study of the behaviour, compartmentalisation, suppression and investigation of fire and its related emergencies, as well as the research and development, production, testing and application of mitigating systems. In structures, be they land-based, offshore or even ships, the owners and operators are responsible to maintain their facilities in accordance with a design-basis that is rooted in laws, including the local building code and fire code, which are enforced by the Authority Having Jurisdiction.\n\nBuildings must be constructed in accordance with the version of the building code that is in effect when an application for a building permit is made. Building inspectors check on compliance of a building under construction with the building code. Once construction is complete, a building must be maintained in accordance with the current fire code, which is enforced by the fire prevention officers of a local fire department. In the event of fire emergencies, Firefighters, fire investigators, and other fire prevention personnel are called to mitigate, investigate and learn from the damage of a fire. Lessons learned from fires are applied to the authoring of both building codes and fire codes.\n\nWhen deciding on what fire protection is appropriate for any given situation, it is important to assess the types of fire hazard that may be faced.\n\nSome jurisdictions operate systems of classifying fires using code letters. Whilst these may agree on some classifications, they also vary. Below is a table showing the standard operated in Europe and Australia against the system used in the United States.\n\nFires are sometimes categorized as \"one alarm\", \"two alarm\", \"three alarm\" (or higher) fires. There is no standard definition for what this means quantifiably, though it always refers to the level response by the local authorities. In some cities, the numeric rating refers to the number of fire stations that have been summoned to the fire. In others, the number counts the number of \"dispatches\" for additional personnel and equipment.\n\nFire protection in land-based buildings, offshore construction or onboard ships is typically achieved via all of the following:\n\nPassive fire protection (PFP) in the form of compartmentalisation was developed prior to the invention of or widespread use of active fire protection (AFP), mainly in the form of automatic fire sprinkler systems. During this time, PFP was the dominant mode of protection provided in facility designs. With the widespread installation of fire sprinklers in the past 50 years, the reliance on PFP as the only approach was reduced.\nLobby groups are typically divided into two camps favouring active or passive fire protection. Each camp tries to garner more business for itself through its influence in establishing or changing local and national building and fire codes. \n\nThe relatively recent inclusion of \"performance based\" or \"objective based\" codes, which have a greater emphasis on life safety than property protection, tend to support AFP initiatives, and can lead to the justification for a lesser degree of fire resistant rated construction. At times it works the other way around, as firewalls that protrude through the roof structure are used to \"sub-divide\" buildings such that the separated parts are of smaller area and contain smaller fire hazards, and do not necessarily require sprinklers.\n\nThe decision to favour AFP versus PFP in the design of a new building may be affected by the lifecycle costs. Lifecycle costs can be shifted from capital to operational budgets and vice versa.\n\nFire protection within a structure is a system that relies on all of its components. The building is designed in compliance with the local building code and fire code by the architect and other consultants. A building permit is issued after review by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ).\n\nDeviations from that original plan should be made known to the AHJ to make sure that the change is still in compliance with the law to prevent any unsafe conditions that may violate the law and put people at risk. For example, if the firestop systems in a structure were inoperable, a significant part of the fire safety plan might be compromised in the event of a fire because the walls and floors that contain the firestops are intended to have a fire-resistance rating. Likewise, if the sprinkler system or fire alarm system is inoperable for lack of proper maintenance, the likelihood of damage or personal injury is increased.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "987507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987507", "title": "Fire safety", "text": "Fire safety\n\nFire safety is the set of practices intended to reduce the destruction caused by fire. Fire safety measures include those that are intended to prevent ignition of an uncontrolled fire, and those that are used to limit the development and effects of a fire after it starts.\n\nFire safety measures include those that are planned during the construction of a building or implemented in structures that are already standing, and those that are taught to occupants of the building.\n\nThreats to fire safety are commonly referred to as \"fire hazards\". A fire hazard may include a situation that increases the likelihood of a fire or may impede escape in the event a fire occurs.\n\nFire safety is often a component of building safety. Those who inspect buildings for violations of the Fire Code and go into schools to educate children on Fire Safety topics are fire department members known as \"Fire Prevention Officers\". The Chief Fire Prevention Officer or Chief of Fire Prevention will normally train newcomers to the Fire Prevention Division and may also conduct inspections or make presentations.\n\nFire safety policies apply at the construction of a building and throughout its operating life. Building codes are enacted by local, sub-national, or national governments to ensure such features as adequate fire exits, signage, and construction details such as fire stops and fire rated doors, windows, and walls. Fire safety is also an objective of electrical codes to prevent overheating of wiring or equipment, and to protect from ignition by electrical faults.\n\nFire codes regulate such requirements as the maximum occupancy for buildings such as theatres or restaurants, for example. Fire codes may require portable fire extinguishers within a building, or may require permanently installed fire detection and suppression equipment such as a fire sprinkler system and a fire alarm system.\n\nLocal authorities charged with fire safety may conduct regular inspections for such items as usable fire exits and proper exit signage, functional fire extinguishers of the correct type in accessible places, and proper storage and handling of flammable materials. Depending on local regulations, a fire inspection may result in a notice of required action, or closing of a building until it can be put into compliance with fire code requirements.\n\nOwners and managers of a building may implement additional fire policies. For example, an industrial site may designate and train particular employees as a fire fighting force. Managers must ensure buildings comply with evacuation, and that building features such as spray fireproofing remains undamaged. Fire policies may be in place to dictate training and awareness of occupants and users of the building to avoid obvious mistakes, such as the propping open of fire doors. Buildings, especially institutions such as schools, may conduct fire drills at regular intervals throughout the year.\n\nSome common fire hazards are:\n\nIn the United States, the fire code (also fire prevention code or fire safety code) is a model code adopted by the state or local jurisdiction and enforced by fire prevention officers within municipal fire departments. It is a set of rules prescribing minimum requirements to prevent fire and explosion hazards arising from storage, handling, or use of dangerous materials, or from other specific hazardous conditions. It complements the building code. The fire code is aimed primarily at preventing fires, ensuring that necessary training and equipment will be on hand, and that the original design basis of the building, including the basic plan set out by the architect, is not compromised. The fire code also addresses inspection and maintenance requirements of various fire protection equipment in order to maintain optimal active fire protection and passive fire protection measures.\n\nA typical fire safety code includes administrative sections about the rule-making and enforcement process, and substantive sections dealing with fire suppression equipment, particular hazards such as containers and transportation for combustible materials, and specific rules for hazardous occupancies, industrial processes, and exhibitions.\n\nSections may establish the requirements for obtaining permits and specific precautions required to remain in compliance with a permit. For example, a fireworks exhibition may require an application to be filed by a licensed pyrotechnician, providing the information necessary for the issuing authority to determine whether safety requirements can be met. Once a permit is issued, the same authority (or another delegated authority) may inspect the site and monitor safety during the exhibition, with the power to halt operations, when unapproved practices are seen or when unforeseen hazards arise.\n\n\nMost U.S. fire departments have fire safety education programs.\n\nFire prevention programs may include distribution of smoke detectors, visiting schools to review key topics with the students and implementing nationally recognized programs such as NFPAS \"Risk Watch\" and \"Learn not to burn\".\n\nOther programs or props can be purchased by fire departments or community organizations. These are usually entertaining and designed to capture children's attention and relay important messages. Props include those that are mostly auditory, such as puppets and robots. The prop is visually stimulating but the safety message is only transmitted orally. Other props are more elaborate, access more senses and increase the learning factor. They mix audio messages and visual cues with hands-on interaction. Examples of these include mobile trailer safety houses and tabletop hazard house simulators. Some fire prevention software is also being developed to identify hazards in a home.\n\nAll programs tend to mix messages of general injury prevention, safety, fire prevention, and escape in case of fire. In most cases the fire department representative is regarded as the expert and is expected to present information in a manner that is appropriate for each age group.\n\nThe US industry standard that outlines the recommended qualifications for fire safety educators is NFPA 1035: Standard for Professional Qualifications for Public Fire and Life Safety Educator, which includes the requirements for Fire and Life Safety Educator Levels I, II, and III; Public Information Officer; and Juvenile Firesetter Intervention Specialist Levels I and II.\n\nAccording to the United States Fire Administration, the very young and the elderly are considered to be \"at risk\" populations. These groups represent approximately 33% of the population.\n\nA fire safety plan is required by all North American national, state and provincial fire codes based on building use or occupancy types. Generally, the owner of the building is responsible for the preparation of a fire safety plan. Buildings with elaborate emergency systems may require the assistance of a fire protection consultant. After the plan has been prepared, it must be submitted to the Chief Fire Official or authority having jurisdiction for approval. Once approved, the owner is responsible for implementing the fire safety plan and training all staff in their duties. It is also the owner’s responsibility to ensure that all visitors and staff are informed of what to do in case of fire. During a fire emergency, a copy of the approved fire safety plan must be available for the responding fire department's use.\n\n\nFire safety plans are a useful tool for fire fighters to have because they allow them to know critical information about a building that they may have to go into. Using this, fire fighters can locate and avoid potential dangers such as hazardous material (hazmat) storage areas and flammable chemicals. In addition to this, fire safety plans can also provide specialized information that, in the case of a hospital fire, can provide information about the location of things like the nuclear medicine ward. In addition to this, fire safety plans also greatly improve the safety of fire fighters. According to FEMA, 16 percent of all fire fighter deaths in 2002 occurred due to a structural collapse or because the fire fighter got lost. Fire safety plans can outline any possible structural hazards, as well as give the fire fighter knowledge of where he is in the building.\n\nIn North America alone, there are around 8 million buildings that legally require a fire safety plan, be it due to provincial or state law. Not having a fire safety plan for buildings which fit the fire code occupancy type can result in a fine, and they are required for all buildings, such as commercial, industrial, assembly, etc.\n\nAs previously stated, a copy of the approved fire safety plan shall be available for the responding fire department. This, however, is not always the case. Up until now, all fire plans were stored in paper form in the fire department. The problem with this is that sorting and storing these plans is a challenge, and it is difficult for people to update their fire plans. As a result, only half of the required buildings have fire plans, and of those, only around 10 percent are up-to-date. This problem has been solved through the introduction of digital fire plans. These fire plans are stored in a database and can be accessed wirelessly on site by firefighters and are much simpler for building owners to update.\n\n"}
{"id": "28038204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28038204", "title": "Future of Music Coalition", "text": "Future of Music Coalition\n\nFuture of Music Coalition (FMC) is a U.S. 501(c)(3) national non-profit organization specializing in education, research and advocacy for musicians with a focus on issues at the intersection of music technology, policy and law.\n\nFuture of Music Coalition was founded in 2000 by Jenny Toomey, Kristin Thomson, Michael Bracy, Walter McDonough, and Brian Zisk.\n\nJenny Toomey and Kristin Thomson formed the indie rock band Tsunami in 1990 and ran the Arlington, VA-based independent label Simple Machines Records from 1990 to 1998. While running Simple Machines, Toomey and Thomson published four editions of \"The Mechanic's Guide\", a do-it-yourself manual for the music business. Following the dissolution of Simple Machines for logistic and financial reasons, Toomey and Thomson worked with the indie rock website Insound to launch The Machine, \"an online forum dedicated to exploring the possibilities and pitfalls of digital music\" from the perspective of indie labels and artists. The Machine ran from 1998 to 2000, and featured interviews with musicians, independent label heads and technologists, including future FMC co-founder Brian Zisk.\n\nIn June 2000, Toomey, Thomson, Bracy, McDonough and Zisk released \"The Future of Music Manifesto\" announcing the formation of Future of Music Coalition.\n\nToomey served as Executive Director of FMC until 2008, when she left to become the Media and Cultural Policy program officer for the Ford Foundation. Thomson currently serves as FMC Education Director.\n\nMichael Bracy co-founded the independent label Misra Records in 1999. He joined the Future of Music Coalition in July 2001 as its Government Affairs Director. He currently serves as a co-founding emeritus member of FMC and is a partner in the government affairs firm Bracy Tucker Brown & Valanzano.\n\nWalter McDonough is a lawyer and academic with a background in copyright, technology and the independent music industry. As an attorney, he has represented the Dresden Dolls and Mission of Burma, among others. He is currently a co-founding emeritus member of FMC, and serves on the board of performance rights organization SoundExchange.\n\nBrian Zisk is an entrepreneur and technology industry consultant specializing in digital media, web broadcasting, and distribution technologies. Zisk founded the Internet radio station Green Witch in 1999 and co-founded the real-time search company Collecta in 2009. He currently serves as a co-founding emeritus member of FMC and is the founder and executive producer of the SF MusicTech Summit.\n\nMusician, educator and author Casey Rae serves as CEO of FMC.\n\nFMC's stated mission is \"to ensure a diverse musical culture where artists flourish, are compensated fairly for their work, and where fans can find the music they want.\"\n\nFMC hosts public events, including the annual Future of Music Policy Summit; conducts original research; submits public comments, documents and testimony to legal proceedings; and organizes advocacy campaigns in an ongoing effort to raise awareness of policy issues in terms of their effect on working musicians and the independent music community.\n\nFMC's current projects relate to issues of media ownership, particularly in the U.S. radio market; Internet and telecommunications policy; artist advocacy and community engagement; artist compensation in the music industry; and copyright.\n\nIn October 2001, FMC published its first major collaborative research project, a detailed breakdown of standard contracts offered by major labels. The report, compiled with the help of entertainment industry attorneys, paired potentially problematic contract clauses with \"easy-to-understand critiques in the hopes that even those who are completely unfamiliar with the music business can understand the implications that result from signing a standard major label deal.\"\n\nOn November 18, 2002, FMC released a report entitled \"Radio Deregulation: Has It Served Musicians and Citizens?\" The report documented the effects of radio station ownership consolidation following the Telecommunications Act of 1996.\n\nThe report found that two parent companies, Clear Channel and Viacom, controlled 42 percent of listeners and 45 percent of industry revenues. Evidence of consolidation was \"particularly extreme\" in the case of Clear Channel: \"Since passage of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, Clear Channel has grown from 40 stations to 1,240 stations — 30 times more than congressional regulation previously allowed. No potential competitor owns even one-quarter the number of Clear Channel stations. With over 100 million listeners, Clear Channel reaches over one-third of the U.S. population.\" The report also found that virtually every geographic market and music format were similarly controlled by oligopolies. The report concludes that \"The radical deregulation of the radio industry allowed by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 has not benefited the public or musicians. Instead, it has led to less competition, fewer viewpoints, and less diversity in programming. Deregulation has damaged radio as a public resource.\"\n\nAddressing the Future of Music Coalition Policy Summit in 2003, then-FCC Commissioner Jonathan Adelstein called the study \"truly impressive.\"\n\nOn January 30, 2003, Jenny Toomey testified before the Senate Commerce Committee hearing on media ownership, alongside L. Lowry Mays (Clear Channel), Edward Fritts (National Association of Broadcasters), Robert Short (Short Broadcasting), and Don Henley of the Eagles (representing the Recording Artists Coalition).\n\nIn May 2003, during the FCC's quadrennial review of its broadcast media ownership regulations, FMC examined the contents of nearly 10,000 comments available for public review in the Federal Communications Commission Broadcast Ownership rulemaking (Docket 02-277). FMC's analysis found that, as of May 8, 2003, \"96.8 percent of citizens filing comments opposed changing existing media ownership rules that would pave the way for further consolidation.\" Nevertheless, in June 2003, the FCC approved, by a 3-2 vote, new media ownership rules which removed many of the restrictions previously imposed to limit ownership of media within a local area.\n\nIn August 2006, FMC released a study documenting the effects of radio consolidation on employment and wages for radio announcers, news reporters and broadcast technicians from the years 1996 to 2003. The study found that, \"comparing figures across metropolitan areas, an increase in the number of stations per owner within a metropolitan area was associated with both lower employment levels and lower wages.\"\n\nIn December 2006, FMC released \"False Premises, False Promises,\" an in-depth follow-up to its 2002 study of the effects of the deregulation of radio station ownership. The 2006 report found that the top four radio station owners have almost half of the listeners; fifteen formats, which can overlap significantly in terms of the songs played, make up three-quarters of all commercial programming; and that \"across 155 markets, radio listenership has declined over the past fourteen years, a 22% drop since its peak in 1989,\" leading FMC to conclude that contrary to the stated goals of FCC deregulation, \"radio consolidation has no demonstrated benefits for the public.\"\n\nIn 2008, Adam Marcus, working on behalf of FMC and the American Association of Independent Music, released \"Change That Tune,\" a musician-oriented guide explaining the effects of payola and its ongoing impact on the ability of independent artists and labels to engage with the radio market in the 21st century. \"Change That Tune\" documents investigations by the New York State Attorney General and the FCC from 2003 to 2007, which uncovered \"alarming evidence\" that \"payola was alive and well in the music and radio industries.”\n\nIn April 2009, FMC released \"Same Old Song,\" a study of the composition of radio playlists nationwide between the years 2005 and 2008, along with a companion study of playlist composition in the state of New York. Both reports found little measurable change in station playlist composition during that period, suggesting that major broadcasters' 2007 settlement with the FCC and the \"rules of engagement\" negotiated by the American Association of Independent Music in the wake of the investigation had not been effective in diversifying playlist content or ending payola practices.\n\nIn January 2011, FMC announced the Artist Revenue Streams research project, a multi-method research initiative funded by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation to assess how US musicians and composers working in all genres are currently generating income. The project was inspired by the widely distributed article by Kristin Thomson entitled \"The 29 Streams\", noting the wide variety of ways that musicians and composers can make money from music. The research includes in-depth interviews with musicians and composers, case studies, and an online survey, open from September 6 to October 28, 2011. Results from the project will be announced 2012.\n\nIn October 2007, FMC launched the Rock the Net campaign, a coalition of musicians and labels who support network neutrality.\n\nNetwork neutrality or Net neutrality, sometimes described as the \"open Internet,\" is the principle that preserves Internet access without restriction to the content, sites, platforms, equipment or modes of communication allowed. FMC explains its engagement in the issue thus: \"All artists deserve the right to use the internet to cultivate listeners, and fans deserve to make their own choices of how and where to access legitimate content.\" Founding supporters of the Rock the Net campaign included R.E.M., Pearl Jam, Kronos Quartet, Boots Riley, Ted Leo, OK Go, Bob Mould (Hüsker Dü), Kathleen Hanna (Bikini Kill, Le Tigre), Death Cab for Cutie, and Jimmy Tamborello (the Postal Service).\n\nIn July 2008, FMC released the benefit compilation \"Rock the Net: Musicians for Net Neutrality\" on Thirsty Ear Recordings, featuring 15 tracks by Rock the Net participants including Bright Eyes, Wilco, Aimee Mann, Guster, They Might Be Giants, and the Wrens. \"Rolling Stone\"'s Rock & Roll Daily called the compilation \"one of the sexiest benefit records in some time.\"\n\nIn 2002, FMC conducted an online survey of working musicians to gauge their level of health insurance coverage. The survey found that, \"of the nearly 2,700 respondents, 44 percent of them did not have health insurance.\" The report expressed concern for the lack of health insurance coverage among musicians and formulated a plan to address the issue.\n\nIn 2005, FMC received a grant from the Nathan Cummings Foundation to develop the Health Insurance Navigation Tool (HINT), a free call-in service offering musicians advice and information about their health insurance options. The HINT Program is led by Program Director Alex Maiolo, a musician and insurance specialist based in the Chapel Hill / Carrboro area of North Carolina.\n\nIn 2010, FMC conducted a follow-up survey which found that \"of the 1,451 respondents, 33 percent said they do not have health insurance.\" Although the percentage of uninsured musicians had decreased since 2002, it was still nearly twice the national average of 17 percent uninsured, as estimated by the Kaiser Family Foundation in 2008.\n\nFMC's \"I Support Community Radio\" campaign collects video testimonials from artists addressing the importance of non-commercial and community radio. Participants include Saul Williams, the Indigo Girls, David Harrington of the Kronos Quartet and Jon Langford of the Mekons.\n\nFMC supports the establishment of a public performance right for sound recordings.\n\nCurrent U.S. Copyright law does not compensate performers or sound copyright owners for the broadcast of their recordings on terrestrial radio. The licensing arrangement for terrestrial radio stations compensates only the songwriter (or composer) and publisher for the over-the-air broadcasts of music. Meanwhile, the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act impose an alternate licensing agreement on digital audio streaming services, such as webcast and satellite radio, that compensates performers and sound copyright owners as well the other rightsholders who receive payment terrestrial plays.\n\nIn 2005, FMC began petitioning Congress to establish a public performance right for sound recordings in order to more equitably compensate all participants in the creative process and correct what it views an unnecessary exception within U.S. copyright law. In addition to a foreclosed revenue stream for artists and the lack of royalty parity for digital platforms, FMC has pointed to the majority of other developed nations with a public performance right for terrestrial radio play as another imbalance. Because of the lack of a reciprocal right between the U.S. and other countries, American performing artists are unable to collect on revenue generated from non-domestic airplay, an inequity likely to be ameliorated with the passage of performance rights legislation in the U.S.\n\n\nFMC's leadership councils include a variety of figures in the fields of music, technology, policy, law, academia and the media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87188", "title": "General Court (European Union)", "text": "General Court (European Union)\n\nThe General Court (EGC) is a constituent court of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It hears actions taken against the institutions of the European Union by individuals and member states, although certain matters are reserved for the European Court of Justice. Decisions of the General Court can be appealed to the Court of Justice, but only on a point of law. Prior to the coming into force of the Lisbon Treaty on 1 December 2009, it was known as the Court of First Instance.\n\nThe General Court hears disputes (such as those by persons who have been refused a trade mark by EUIPO, the EU Trade Mark and designs registry).\n\nThe creation of the General Court instituted a judicial system based on two levels of jurisdiction: all cases heard at first instance by the General Court may be subject to a right of appeal to the Court of Justice on points of law only.\n\nIn view of the increasing number of cases brought before the General Court in the last five years, to relieve it of some of the caseload, the Treaty of Nice, which entered into force on 1 February 2003, provides for the creation of 'judicial panels' in certain specific areas.\n\nOn 2 November 2004 the Council adopted a decision establishing the European Union Civil Service Tribunal. This new specialised tribunal, composed of seven judges, heard and determined at first instance disputes involving the European Civil Service. Its decisions were subject to a right of appeal before the General Court on points of law only. Decisions given by the General Court in this area might exceptionally be subject to review by the Court of Justice. The European Union Civil Service Tribunal was duly constituted into law on 2 December 2005. It was dissolved on 1 September 2016.\n\nThe General Court is composed of 47 judges, two from each Member State, plus a registrar. This will be increased to 56 in 2016. The Judges are appointed for a renewable term of six years by common accord of the governments of the Member States.\n\nThe Members of the General Court elect their president and the presidents of the Chambers of five Judges from among their number for a renewable period of three years.\n\nThere are no permanent Advocates General attached to the General Court (unlike the European Court of Justice, which has eleven Advocates General). However, the task of an Advocate General may be performed in a limited number of cases by a Judge nominated to do so. In practice this has been done occasionally.\n\nThe General Court, like the Court of Justice, has the task of ensuring that the law is observed in the interpretation and application of the Treaties of the European Union and the provisions adopted by the competent Union institutions.\n\nTo fulfil its main task, the General Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine at first instance all direct actions brought by individuals and the Member States, with the exception of those to be assigned to a 'judicial panel' and those reserved for the Court of Justice.\n\n(against acts of the Union institutions)\n\n(against inaction by the Union institutions)\n\n(for the reparation of damage caused by unlawful conduct on the part of a Union institution)\n\n(disputes concerning contracts in public or private law entered into by the Union, containing such a clause)\n\n(disputes between the Union and its officials and other servants)\n\n\"Subject-matter of direct actions: all matters, including:\"\n\n\nThe General Court has its own Rules of Procedure. As a rule, the Court's procedure includes a written phase and an oral phase. The proceedings are conducted in a language at the petitioner's choosing. As in the European Court of Justice, the working language of the Court is nevertheless French, and this includes the language the judges deliberate in and the drafting language of preliminary reports and judgments.\n\nThe Court is separated into 8 divisions (called ‘chambers’) sat by 3-judge benches, except for the 6th and 8th divisions whose benches are sat by 4 judges and alternate to form 3-judge benches for the purposes of dealing with cases . Cases are assigned by the President of the Court to a relevant divisional presiding judge. The presiding judge assigned to the case then chooses a judge-reporter (\"judge-rapporteur\") from the judges of the division, whose clerks write a preliminary report (\"rapport préalable\") based on the parties' pleadings and applicable law.\n\nAt the close of the written phase and, as the case may be, on adoption of measures of inquiry, the case is argued orally in open court. The proceedings are interpreted simultaneously, if necessary, into various official languages of the European Union. The judges then deliberate based on a draft judgment prepared by the judge-reporter. The Court's final judgment is handed down in open court.\n\n"}
{"id": "32465419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32465419", "title": "Habeas Corpus Act 1867", "text": "Habeas Corpus Act 1867\n\nThe Habeas Corpus Act of 1867 (sess. ii, chap. 28, ) is an act of Congress that significantly expanded the jurisdiction of federal courts to issue writs of habeas corpus. Passed February 5, 1867, the Act amended the Judiciary Act of 1789 to grant the courts the power to issue writs of habeas corpus \"in all cases where any person may be restrained of his or her liberty in violation of the constitution, or any treaty or law of the United States.\" Prior to the Act's passage, prisoners in the custody of one of the states who wished to challenge the legality of their detention could petition for a writ of habeas corpus only in state courts; the federal court system was barred from issuing writs of habeas corpus in their cases. The Act also permitted the court \"to go beyond the return\" and question the truth of the jailer's stated justification for detaining the petitioning prisoner, whereas prior to the Act courts were technically bound to accept the jailer's word that the prisoner was actually being held for the reason stated. The Act largely restored habeas corpus following its 1863 suspension by Congress, ensuring that anyone arrested after its passage could challenge their detention in the federal courts, but denied habeas relief to anyone who was already in military custody for any military offense or for having aided the Confederacy.\n\nWhen the Habeas Corpus Act of 1867 is spoken of, it is usually this act that is meant. Another act dealing with habeas corpus was passed the same day and appears on the same page of the United States Statutes at Large, being the twenty-seventh rather than the twenty-eighth chapter. It amended the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act of 1863, which permitted (among other things) government officials charged with abusing their powers under the suspension of habeas corpus to have their cases heard at the federal rather than state level. The 1867 Act ensured that the federal courts could effectively hear the cases transferred to them by issuing a writ for habeas corpus cum causa.\n\n\"The Habeas Corpus Act of 1867: The Supreme Court as Legal Historian\",Mayers L., 33 U.Chi.L.Rev. 31 (1965).\n"}
{"id": "1547186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1547186", "title": "Impossibility", "text": "Impossibility\n\nIn contract law, impossibility is an excuse for the nonperformance of duties under a contract, based on a change in circumstances (or the discovery of preexisting circumstances), the nonoccurrence of which was an underlying assumption of the contract, that makes performance of the contract literally impossible.\n\nFor example, if Rachel contracts to pay Joey $1000 to paint her house on October 1, but the house burns to the ground before the end of September, Rachel is excused from her duty to pay Joey the $1000, and he is excused from his duty to paint her house; however, Joey may still be able to sue under the theory of unjust enrichment for the value of any benefit he conferred on Rachel before her house burned down.\n\nThe parties to a contract may choose to ignore impossibility by inserting a hell or high water clause, which mandates that payments continue even if completion of the contract becomes physically impossible.\n\nIn common law, for the defense of \"impossibility\" to be raised performance must not merely be difficult or unexpectedly costly for one party, there must be no way for it to actually be accomplished; however, it is beginning to be recognized that \"impossibility\" under this doctrine can also exist when the contemplated performance can be done but only at an excessive and unreasonable cost, i.e., commercial impracticability. On the other hand, some sources see \"impossibility\" and impracticability as being related but separate defenses.\n\nThe English case that established the doctrine of impossibility at common law is \"Taylor v. Caldwell.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27464308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27464308", "title": "International Practice Management Association", "text": "International Practice Management Association\n\nThe International Practice Management Association (IPMA) is a membership-based professional organization that promotes the development, professional standing and visibility of paralegal and legal practice support management professionals. Its membership consists of paralegal managers and other practice support managers (those who manage non-attorney fee earners in law firms and legal departments).\n\nAccording to its website, the IPMA’s primary goals are:\n\n\nThe IPMA produces position papers on topics relating to paralegal regulation and the paralegal and practice management profession more generally.\nCurrent position papers include:\n\n\"Paralegal Management\" is the IPMA's flagship publication, which contains articles on legal management and current issues in the paralegal and practice support profession.\n\nThe IPMA hosts an Annual Conference & Expo that includes workshops, general sessions, networking events and a supplier trade show for legal practice support managers and IPMA affiliates.\n\nIn connection with ALM Legal Intelligence, the IPMA produces the Annual Compensation Survey for Paralegals/Legal Assistants and Managers. The Survey provides a benchmark for law firms and corporate/in-house law departments on paralegal compensation and management practices. The Survey reports on 11 distinct paralegal positions from the most senior Paralegal Manager to Clerk.\n\nThe IPMA was founded as the Legal Assistant Management Association (\"LAMA\") in Washington D.C. in 1984. It was renamed the International Paralegal Management Association on January 1, 2005. In 2014, reflecting changes in the industry and its membership, the IPMA membership voted to change its name to the International Practice Management Association, serving not only paralegal managers but also other managers in law firms and law departments who manage practice support professionals.\n"}
{"id": "3221214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221214", "title": "Islamofascism", "text": "Islamofascism\n\n\"Islamic fascism\" (first described in 1933), also known since 1990 as \"Islamofascism\", is a term drawing an analogy between the ideological characteristics of specific Islamist movements and a broad range of European fascist movements of the early 20th century, neofascist movements, or totalitarianism.\n\nThe term \"Islamofascism\" is defined in the \"New Oxford American Dictionary\" as \"a term equating some modern Islamic movements with the European fascist movements of the early twentieth century\".\n\nThe earliest known use of the contiguous term \"Islamic Fascism\" dates to 1933 when Akhtar Ḥusayn Rā’ēpūrī, in an attack on Muḥammad Iqbāl, defined attempts to secure the independence of Pakistan as a form of \"Islamic fascism\". Some analysts consider Manfred Halpern's use of the phrase 'neo-Islamic totalitarianism' in his 1963 book \"The Politics of Social Change in the Middle East and North Africa\", as a precursor to the concept of Islamofascism, in that he discusses Islamism as a new kind of fascism. Halpern's primary case was based on an analysis of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, and he argued that such Islamic movements were an obstacle to the military regimes who were in his view representatives of a new middle class capable of modernizing the Middle East. Halpern's work, commissioned by the United States Air Force from the Rand Corporation, arguably represents a mix of mid-Cold War analysis and orientalism.\n\nIn 1978, Maxime Rodinson, a distinguished Marxist scholar of Islam, responded to French avant-garde enthusiasm for Khomeini's revolution in a three part article in \"Le Monde\", by arguing that, in response to successive assaults by Crusaders, Mongols, Turks and Western imperialism, Islamic countries had come to feel embattled, and the impoverished masses had come to think of their elites, linked to foreigners, as devoid of traditional piety. Both nationalism and socialism imported from the West were recast in religious terms, in a process of political Islamicization which would be devoid of the progressive side of nationalism and revert to what he called \"a type of archaic fascism\" characterized by policing the state to enforce a totalitarian moral and social order.\n\nThe earliest example of the term \"Islamofascism,\" according to William Safire, occurs in an article penned by the Scottish scholar and writer Malise Ruthven writing in 1990. Ruthven used it to refer to the way in which traditional Arab dictatorships used religious appeals in order to stay in power. Malise Ruthven, \"Construing Islam as a Language,\" The Independent 8 September 1990. \"Nevertheless there is what might be called a political problem affecting the Muslim world. In contrast to the heirs of some other non-Western traditions, including Hinduism, Shintoism and Buddhism, Islamic societies seem to have found it particularly hard to institutionalise divergences politically: authoritarian government, not to say Islamo-fascism, is the rule rather than the exception from Morocco to Pakistan.\" Ruthven doubts that he himself coined the term, stating that the attribution to him is probably due to the fact that internet search engines don't go back beyond 1990.\n\nAs a neologism it was adopted broadly in the wake of the September 11 attacks to intimate that either all Muslims, or those Muslims who spoke of their social or political goals in terms of Islam, were fascists. Khalid Duran is often credited with devising the phrase at that date. He used it in 2001 to characterize Islamism generally, as a doctrine that would compel both a state and its citizens to adopt the religion of Islam, journalist Stephen Schwartz has also claimed priority as the first Westerner to adopt the term in the aftermath of the attack on the World Trade Center in an article in \"The Spectator\", where he used it to describe the Wahhabi ideology of Osama Bin Laden. and defined it as the \"use of the faith of Islam as a cover for totalitarian ideology.\" The term was sufficiently in vogue by 2002 to lead the cultural historian Richard Webster to remonstrate with its usage, in arguing that grouping many different political ideologies, terrorist and insurgent groups, governments, and religious sects into one single idea of \"Islamofascism\" both grossly oversimplifies, and induces us to ignore root causes, a key one of which, in his view, was 'the history of Western colonialism in the Middle East, and above all in Palestine'.\n\nAccounts differ as to who popularized the term. President George W. Bush introduced the term officially during his presidency. According to Safire, author Christopher Hitchens was responsible for its diffusion, while Valerie Scatamburlo d'Annibale argues that its popularization is due to the work of Eliot Cohen, former counselor to Condoleezza Rice, reputed occasionally to be \"the most influential neocon in academe\". It circulated in neoconservative circles for some years after 2001 and came into wider currency after President George W. Bush, still grappling to find a phrase that might identify the nature of the \"evil\" which would define the nature of his enemy in the War on Terror, stated in 2005 that Islamofascism was an ideology synonymous with Islamic radicalism and militant jihadism, which, he then clarified, was decidedly distinct from the religion of Islam. It moved into the mainstream in August 2006. After the arrest of Islamic terrorists suspected of preparing to blow up airlines, Bush once more alluded to \"Islamic Fascists\", apparently a \"toned-down\" variant of the word, The public use of the neologism and the analogous \"Islamic fascism\" during the run-up to the U.S. 2006 mid-term elections, perhaps with a specific focus group in mind, provoked an outcry, or storm of protest, and was quickly dropped from the president's rhetorical armory. Katha Pollitt, stating the principle that, \"if the control the language, you control the debate\", remarked that while the term looked \"analytic\", it was emotional and \"intended to get us to think less and fear\". David Gergen, former speechwriter for Richard Nixon, commented that the phrase \"confuses more than it clarifies\", for \"Islamic fascism has no meaning\" in the Arab world. Neoconservative writers, critics and scholars from Hitchens to Robert Wistrich however responded that the Muslim religion itself is fascistic, a view which, in identifying Islam with political fascism, was lambasted for being as offensive as the term \"Judeo-Nazi\" coined in the 1970s by Yeshayahu Leibowitz, editor of the Encyclopedia Hebraica, to characterize Messianic Jews settling in the occupied West Bank. Hitchens replied that the link is no more deleterious than that made by Leibowitz, or by left-wing analysts who wrote of clerical fascism.\n\nDavid Horowitz developed an \"Islamo-Fascist Awareness Week\" consisting of 26 workshops on university campuses, between 2226 October 2007. Critics call it a (conservative) buzzword. A number of Republicans, such as Rick Santorum, used it as shorthand for \"terrorists\", and Donald Rumsfeld dismissed critics of the invasion of Iraq as appeasers of a \"new type of fascism\". In April 2008, the Associated Press reported that US federal agencies, including the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security, were advised to stop using the term \"Islamo-fascism\" in a fourteen-point memo issued by the Extremist Messaging Branch, a department of another federal body known as the National Counterterrorism Center. Aimed at improving the presentation of the War on Terrorism before Muslim audiences and the media, the memo states: \"We are communicating with, not confronting, our audiences. Don't insult or confuse them with pejorative terms such as 'Islamo-fascism,' which are considered offensive by many Muslims.\" By 2007 Norman Podhoretz, arguing that the United States was in the midst of World War IV, identified Iran as the main center of the Islamofascist ideology he was convinced America had been fighting since 2001. Podhoretz called on the United States to bomb Iran as \"soon as logistically possible\".\n\nSchwartz's approach argues that several factors buttressed his notion of a similarity between fascism and Islamic fundamentalist terror: \n\nHitchens, though preferring to speak of \"fascism with an Islamic face\", a variation on the phrase \"Islam with a fascist face\" deployed by Fred Halliday to describe developments in Iran after the overthrow of the Shah in 1979, insisted that Bin Ladenism and Salafism shared similarities with clerical fascism, a term already used by Walter Laqueur to refer to the recent form a resurgent Islamic fundamentalism was taking. Such clerical fascism was, he argued, like Islamic fundamentalism, had a devotion to a charismatic leader, a point contested by Frederick W. Kagan, trusted in the authoritative power of one book, was queasy about sexual deviance, contemptuous of women, hostile to modernity. nostalgic for past glories, toxicly Judeophobic, obsessed with old grievances, real and imagined, and addicted to revenge. Islamofascism was, he allowed, not perfectly congruent, with European fascism, in that the latter idealized the nation-state. Islam has no concept of a master race. On the other hand, he affirmed, the notion of a revived Caliphate might lend itself to an analogy with Hitler's Greater Germany, and Mussolini's desire to revive the Roman Empire, as Islamic rhetoric about the pure believers as opposed to the kuffār suggests a non-ethnic based form of cleansing.\n\nThe American journalist and former Nixon speechwriter William Safire wrote that the term fulfilled a need for a term to distinguish traditional Islam from terrorists: \"Islamofascism may have legs: the compound defines those terrorists who profess a religious mission while embracing totalitarian methods and helps separate them from devout Muslims who want no part of terrorist means.\" Eric Margolis denied any resemblance between anything in the Muslim world, with its local loyalties and consensus decision-making and the historic, corporative-industrial states of the West. \"The Muslim World\", he argued, \"is replete with brutal dictatorships, feudal monarchies, and corrupt military-run states, but none of these regimes, however deplorable, fits the standard definition of fascism. Most, in fact, are America's allies.\"\n\nMalise Ruthven opposed redefining Islamism as \"Islamofascism,\" a term whose usage has been \"much abused\". The Islamic label can be used for legitimizing and labeling a movement, but ideology must be distinguished from the brand name associated with it. The difference between Islamic movements and fascism are more \"compelling\" than the analogies. Islam defies doctrinal unification. No particular order of government can be deduced from Islamic texts, any more than from Christianity. Spanish fascists drew support from traditional Catholic doctrines, but by the same token, other Catholic thinkers have defended democracy in terms of the same theological traditions.\n\nThe widespread use in mass media of the term \"Islamofascism\" has been challenged as confusing because of its conceptual fuzziness. George Orwell, it has been noted in this connection, observed as early as 1946 that \"[T]he word Fascism has now no meaning except in so far as it signifies 'something not desirable'\", and linking Islam to that concept was more a matter of denigration than of ideological clarity. Chibli Mallat, while noting that the term is controversial, thinks it warranted but notes that there is something anomalous about Islam being singled out, since fascist practices among Jews in Israel, Buddhists in Burma, and Narendra Modi's Hindi constituencies in India do not generate the same terminology: one rarely hears of Hindu-, Buddhist- or Judeo-fascism. A number of scholars and thinkers, such as Michel Onfray, Michael Howard, Jeffrey Herf, Walter Laqueur, and Robert Wistrich have argued that the link between fascism and Islam/Islamic radicalism is sound. Many scholars who specialize in Islam and the Arabic world are skeptical of the thesis: Reza Aslan, for one, identifies the roots of jihadism not in the Qur'an, but in the writings of modern Arab anti-colonialists and, doctrinally, to Ahmad Ibn Taymiyyah Historians like Niall Ferguson dismiss the word as an \"extraordinary neologism\" positing a conceptual analogy when there is \"virtually no overlap between the ideology of al Qaeda and fascism\".\n\nWalter Laqueur, after reviewing this and related terms, concluded that \"Islamic fascism, Islamophobia and antisemitism, each in its way, are imprecise terms we could well do without but it is doubtful whether they can be removed from our political lexicon.\"\n\nManfred Halpern, the first major thinker to characterize politicized Islam as a fascist movement, called it \"Neo-Islamic Totalitarianism\" in his classic 1963 study \"The Politics of Social Change in the Middle East and North Africa.\"\n\nThe French Marxist Maxime Rodinson described Islamic movements such as the Muslim Brotherhood as a \"type of archaic fascism\" whose goal was the establishment of a \"totalitarian state whose political police world brutally enforce the moral and social order.\" He accused the French left of celebrating in Islamism a religious form of fascism.\n\nThe sociologist Saïd Amir Arjomand has argued since 1984 that Islamism and fascism share essential features, an argument he made at some length in his 1989 book \"The Turban for the Crown; The Islamic revolution in Iran.\"\n\nMichael Howard has defended the use of the term drawing parallels between Wahhabism and European Fascist ideology. Howard was initially deeply unhappy with George Bush's idea of a global war on terror: it was not a war in his view, except metaphorically, and one cannot wage war against an abstract concept like \"terror\". Giving one's adversary a belligerent status by reciprocating their idea that they are engaged in a war, as opposed to a confrontation, was against British policy in suppressing insurgencies in Malaya, Ireland, India and Palestine, where the question was one of \"criminal disruption of civil order\". Yet Howard endorsed Bush's description of the adversary as \"Islamic fascists\", though he qualified this by stating that \"although they are no more typical of their religion than the fanatics who have committed abominations in the name of Christianity\", and their teachings are as much derived from Western notions as from Islam. Fascism is, for Howard, \"the rejection of the entire legacy of the Enlightenment\" with its values of \"reason, toleration, open-ended inquiry and the rule of law\".\n\nIn an April 2010 article in \"The New Republic\", historian Jeffrey Herf, elaborating on a talk given to the U.S. State Department in Washington, D.C., outlined what he regarded as the ideological linkage of Islamism with World War II Nazi antisemitic propaganda which was broadcast to Muslims throughout the Middle East. He considered radical Islam as the third major form of totalitarian ideology, though closer to fascism and Nazism than Communism in sharing continuities with the former two, such as Judeophobia and anti-Zionism. Radical Islam fitted the model of reactionary modernism in its rejection of democracy and espousal of technology. Islamic Nazi propagandist rhetoric assured Germans they would \"exterminate the Jews before the Jews had a chance to exterminate them\" and:\n\nSecondly, Herf argues that like Nazi/Fascist paramilitaries, they were hypermasculine, anti-feminist brotherhoods. Unlike Communists who thought survival an end of strategy, Islamists like those in Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Iran would not be deterred the inevitability of massive retaliation, and in their concept of martyrdom have different ideas about a coming religious apocalypse. Fear of offending Muslims has led the U.S. to avoid terms redolent of Islamophobia. Just as Christian antisemitism played a role in Nazism, he affirms, so too the Qur'an feeds into Islamic rhetoric. Nazi propaganda broadcasts fed into the Arab world's attachment to Islam, and the collaboration rested on shared values, the rejection of liberal democracy and above all hatred to Jews and this tradition fed straight into the formulations of Hassan al-Banna, the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, and the essays of Sayyid Qutb to influence modern Islamic radicalism. Euphemisms must be dropped, Herf counseled, and killing civilians, Muslim or otherwise, defined as a \"war crime\", so that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad should be indicted for incitement to genocide. His public statements are, Herf believes, violations of Article Three of the U.N. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide; the Iranian nuclear program, threatening a second Holocaust and nuclear attacks on the US, must be halted, with retention of conventional military strikes against that country as an option.\n\nWhile \"Islamic Fascism\" has been discussed as a category of serious analysis by the scholars mentioned above, the term \"Islamofascism\" circulated mainly as a propaganda, rather than as an analytic, term after the September 11 attacks on the United States in September 2001 but also gained a foothold in more sober political discourse, both academic and pseudo-academic. Many critics are dismissive, variously branding it as \"meaningless\" (Daniel Benjamin); \"a kosher-halal\" throwback version of the \"vacuous\" old leftist epithet \"fascist pig\" (Norman Finkelstein); a \"figment of the neocon imagination\" (Paul Krugman); and as betraying an ignorance of both Islam and Fascism (Angelo Codevilla).\n\nTony Judt, in an analysis of liberal acquiescence in President George W. Bush's foreign policy initiatives, particularly the War on Terror and the invasion of Iraq, argued that this policy was premised on the notion there was such a thing as Islamofascism, a notion Judt considered catastrophic. In his diagnosis of this shift he detected a decline in the old liberal consensus of American politics, and what he called the \"deliquescence of the Democratic Party\". Many former left-liberal pundits, like Paul Berman and Peter Beinart having no knowledge of the Middle East or cultures like those of Wahhabism and Sufism on which they descant authoritatively, have, he claimed, and his view was shared by Niall Ferguson, latched onto the war on terror as a new version of the old liberal fight against fascism, in the form of Islamofascism. In their approach there is a cozy acceptance of a binary division of the world into ideological antitheses, the \"familiar juxtaposition that eliminates exotic complexity and confusion: Democracy v. Totalitarianism, Freedom v. Fascism, Them v. Us\" has been revived. Judt cited many others who, once liberals have fallen in lockstep with the American idea of a global war against Islamic jihad: Adam Michnik, Oriana Fallaci; Václav Havel; André Glucksmann, Michael Ignatieff, Leon Wieseltier, David Remnick, Thomas Friedman and Michael Walzer. Christopher Hitchens was also criticized by Judt, as making unhistoric simplifications, to justify use of the term.\n\nThe term \"Islamofascism\" has been criticized by several scholars.\n\nIn 2012 a special issue of \"Die Welt des Islams\" was dedicated to surveying the issue of Islamophobia in recent Western reportage and scholarly studies, with essays on various facets of the controversy by Katajun Amirpur, , , and others. Their positions were almost invariably critical of the term and the concept underlying it.\n\nIn a 2016 lecture, American historian Paul Gottfried proposed that some strains of Islam could accurately be described as Islamist or Islamic terrorist but definitely not fascist, because he maintains that the only accurate use of Fascism is to describe the government of Italy under Mussolini from 1922 to 1938.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14786073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14786073", "title": "Jackson v. Indiana", "text": "Jackson v. Indiana\n\nJackson v. Indiana, 406 U.S. 715 (1972), was a landmark decision of the United States Supreme Court that determined a U.S. state violated due process by involuntarily committing a criminal defendant for an indefinite period of time solely on the basis of his permanent incompetency to stand trial on the charges filed against him.\n\nIn general, if a defendant is found incompetent to proceed to trial, the criminal proceedings are suspended. In those cases, where the charges are petty, the charges are often dropped or a plea bargain may be made in which the charges are nolle prossed if the defendant agrees to seek treatment. Otherwise, the defendant is usually committed to a psychiatric hospital for treatment until the defendant is restored to competency, at which point the trial will proceed.\n\nTheon Jackson, a deaf-mute who could not read, write or communicate in other ways, was charged with two counts of petty theft. Competency evaluations and testimony by the evaluating doctors showed that Jackson's intelligence was too low for him to understand the nature of the charges against him, even if he were able to develop the ability to communicate, and that the prognosis for restoration of competency was \"rather dim\" even if he were not a deaf mute. Despite testimony that the state of Indiana had no facilities to treat Jackson's problems, Jackson was committed to a psychiatric hospital for treatment.\n\nJackson filed a motion for a new trial. This was denied.\n\nAppealing on a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of Indiana, Indiana attorney, Frank Spencer, argued on behalf of the petitioner Jackson that Jackson's commitment was equal to a \"life sentence\" even though he had not been convicted of a crime. Spencer claimed that petitioner Jackson was being denied equal protection because, without the criminal charges pending against him, the State would have been required to proceed using Indiana's statutory provisions for the feeble-minded or for the mentally ill. Under these provisions Jackson would have been entitled to greater rights. He also claimed that what was essentially an indefinite commitment deprived him of due process and subjected him to cruel and unusual punishment. However, the State Supreme Court affirmed the denial of the lower court. A rehearing was also denied. The U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari.\n\nThe Supreme Court reversed. Arguments were presented by Indiana attorney Frank Spencer. (recording here: https://www.oyez.org/cases/1970-1979/1971/1971_70_5009). It held that the state of Indiana cannot constitutionally commit the petitioner for an indefinite period of time on the sole grounds that he was incompetent to stand trial on the charges filed against him, thus violating both the equal protection and due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Court examined Indiana procedure of pretrial commitment of incompetent criminal defendant as set forth in Ind. Ann. Stat. 9-1706a and compared it with the procedures for committing persons who are \"feeble-minded, and are therefore unable properly to care for themselves\" and those for the \"mentally ill\". The Court found the procedures were essentially similar with one important difference. A person committed as \"feeble-minded\" may be released \"at any time\" his condition warrants it in the judgment of the superintendent of the institution. A person committed as \"mentally ill\" may be released when the superintendent of the institution discharges him, or when he is cured. Committing the criminal defendant indefinitely violates equal protection.\n\nTherefore, the Court ruled that Indiana's indefinite commitment of a criminal defendant solely because he lacks the capacity to stand trial violates due process. \n\nThe Court declined to rule on the issue of the pending charges themselves, reasoning that the issue of petitioner's criminal responsibility at the time of the alleged offenses has not yet been adjudicated, and therefore it would be premature for the Court to dismiss the charges against petitioner.\n\nBefore this landmark case, pre-trial involuntary commitment of incompetent individuals often meant lengthy or even lifetime confinement in a maximum security institution with little concern for treatment. This was true even though they were neither tried for or convicted of a crime. In this case, the Court for the first time put limits on the length of time an incompetent person may be confined. However, the Court offers only general guidelines and by 1994, twenty years after the case, 32 states still had not enacted periodic judicial review of incompetent detainees. Many states still allowed a detention period that exceeded that maximum sentence that person would have received if convicted.\n\nFurther, by refusing to rule on the charges themselves, the court did not clarify the proper disposition of criminal charges pending against a person whose competency can not be restored. This means that in those states where the charges are not dismissed, the individual may not be converted to a civil status eligible for civil commitment, resulting in such an individuals continued confinement in a secure prison with little opportunity for treatment and fewer privileges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4923590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4923590", "title": "Judge's associate", "text": "Judge's associate\n\nA judge's associate is an individual who provides assistance to a judge or court. \n\nIn Australia, a judge's associate (not to be confused with a tipstaff) is a recent law graduate or lawyer who performs various duties to assist a specific judge, such as: legal research; proof-reading draft judgments and providing substantive comments to the judge; and administrative duties. \n\nIn England, a judge's associate is an administrative role. In New Zealand, a judge's associate was a court stenographer. \n\nAlmost all Australian courts employ judicial clerks to assist judges with legal research and reviewing draft judgments. In federal courts and some state courts, the position is known as a \"Judge's Associate\". However, in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, the position is known as a \"Tipstaff\". A point of confusion is that, in New South Wales, a judge's personal assistant or administrative secretary is known as an Associate.\n\nThe extent and nature of the tasks performed by an associate or tipstaff depends on the individual judge. Unlike in the United States, they rarely prepare whole initial drafts of a judgment, though they may draft parts. Tasks may include preparing research memos to the judge on questions of law, checking draft judgments for accuracy with the record, providing critique on the substance of the reasoning of judgments, assisting with speech-writing and research, communicating with lawyers who contact the judge's chambers, and administrative duties.\n\nThe positions are usually filled by recent law graduates who have performed well in their studies, and usually run for one year.\n\nGenerally the higher the court, the more competitive selection becomes. It is not uncommon for associates in the High Court of Australia to have attained the university medal in law, come close to the top of their class, or worked for a judge previously in a lower court. The website of the High Court states that competition is \"very strong\" and that there are sometimes upwards of 200 applications for a single vacancy. The website of the Supreme Court of New South Wales describes tipstaff positions as \"extremely popular and therefore highly competitive\" and that applicants are expected to have \"a strong academic record\".\n\nIn the High Court, each of the seven Justices has two associates at any given time. Usually, one associate is based permanently in Canberra, the capital of Australia and the seat of the Court, and one is based in the judge's home town and travels with the judge when the Court is on circuit to the other capital cities. Previous associates have written that the nature of the associate's role is different from that of a law clerk in the United States.\n\nIn country causes the record etc. had to be entered, and the cause set down for trial, with the judge's associate.\n\nFor the penalty for the recording, by a judge's associate, of appearances by a party when the party did not in fact appear, see section 3 of the 3 Geo 2 c 25 (1729 or 1730), which was replaced by section 39 of the Juries Act 1825, which is repealed (see the Courts Act 1971).\n\nIn New Zealand, a judge's associate was a court stenographer. A judge's associate recorded the evidence given in court either in shorthand or with a typewriter.\n\nA judge's associate is referred to in court as \"Your Honour's associate\".\n\nA judge's associate was allowed to make part of his salary by supplying copies of the Judge's notes to litigants. Mr Taylor, Member of Parliament for Christchurch City said that this practice should be abolished and that judge's associates should be paid a fixed salary instead.\n"}
{"id": "23177033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23177033", "title": "Judicial review in Hong Kong", "text": "Judicial review in Hong Kong\n\nJudicial review in Hong Kong is conducted according to the Constitutional and Administrative Law List (Practice Direction 26.1). It comprises two different aspects: firstly, judicial review of domestic legislation as to their compatibility with the Basic Law (\"constitutional review\"); secondly, judicial review of administrative decisions under administrative law (\"administrative review\").\n\nUnder the Basic Law, the court of Hong Kong is also delegated with the power to interpret the Basic Law. Thus, it is recognised by the Hong Kong courts that they have jurisdiction to check whether the executive or legislature are working within the boundaries of the Basic Law. Similar to the United States, Hong Kong courts have held that they may review as to whether legislation passed by the legislature is in compliance with the Basic Law. This is different from the situation in the UK where the court may have no such jurisdiction under the traditional doctrine of parliamentary supremacy. The Hong Kong courts observed that reviewing legislation is possible because the legislature in Hong Kong is not, unlike its UK counterpart, supreme.\n\nArticle 39 of the Basic Law entrenches the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) as a core constitutional document for Hong Kong. No legal restrictions on the rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents may contravene the ICCPR as applied to Hong Kong. The ICCPR applies to Hong Kong primarily through the Hong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance (BORO), which was enacted in 1991. In fact, the BORO was the subject of many cases of judicial review before 1997. In particular, \"R v Sin Yau Ming\", a 1992 case involving the presumption of innocence in the BORO, set the stage for future judicial review.\n\nThe Basic Law provides that the previous law in force in Hong Kong, including Common Law, will be preserved. Thus, administrative review, as part of the Common Law, is also preserved. The basis of administrative review is sometimes said to be Article 35 of the Basic Law, which reads:\n\nThere is, however, debate on this. Hong Kong's administrative law has procedural and substantive similarities with English administrative law, but with various differences.\n\nBefore applying for judicial review, a person must first obtain the leave of the Court of First Instance of the High Court by filing Form 86 (together with an affidavit verifying the relevant facts and the filing fee of HK$1,045). As explained by the Court of Final Appeal, the requirement to obtain leave to apply for judicial review serves as 'an important filter ... to prevent public authorities from being unduly vexed with unarguable challenges'. An applicant must exhaust all revenues of appeal or alternative remedies before applying for leave for judicial review unless there are exceptional circumstances.\n\nIn Form 86, the grounds of judicial review must be set out 'clearly, succinctly and in a few numbered paragraphs' addressing the 'real issues in the case', together with the relevant facts. It is the duty of the applicant to include in Form 86 and the accompanying affidavit all material facts of which he/she is aware (even though such facts may be adverse to his/her case), as well as potential legal answers to his/her claim. If leave is granted, but the applicant has failed to comply with this duty of full and frank disclosure, it is viewed as a 'serious matter' by the Court (even if it is an 'inadvertent' oversight) and leave may be set aside. In addition, a legally-aided applicant may be ordered to personally bear all of his/her own legal costs, as well as the respondent's legal costs.\n\nForm 86 must generally be filed promptly and in any event no later than 3 months from the date of the decision which is being challenged. If this deadline is missed, a Judge of the Court of First Instance may exercise his/her discretion to grant an extension of time if there is a 'good reason'.\n\nA Judge of the Court of First Instance will grant leave to apply for judicial review if he or she is persuaded that there is a reasonably arguable claim which has a realistic prospect of success. The Judge will usually make the decision without an oral hearing.\n\nThe Judge will record on Form CALL-1 whether leave has been granted or refused. If leave is refused, the Judge is not required to state elaborate reasons on Form CALL-1. An appeal can be lodged to the Court of Appeal within 14 days of the decision of the Court of First Instance to refuse leave. \nThe appellant should file with the Court of Appeal a notice of appeal, Form CALL-1, the order/judgment of the Court of First istance and all the documents placed before the Judge of the Court of First Instance. If the appellant wishes to make submissions, they should be contained in a skeleton argument (not an affidavit) submitted with the appeal bundle. If the 14-day deadline to lodge an appeal is missed, an application for extension of time can be made directly to the Court of Appeal, which can decide without an oral hearing whether to exercise its discretionary power to extend time to lodge an appeal.\n\nIf leave to apply for judicial review has been granted, the applicant must, within 14 days, serve the order granting leave and any directions from the Court on the respondent and interested parties. In addition, the applicant must file Form 86A in Court (together with the filing fee of HK$1,045) and serve it on 'all persons directly affected'.\n\nIf the respondent intends to use an affidavit at the hearing, it must be filed as soon as practicable and in any event no later than 56 days after the applicant has served Form 86A on it.\n\nAn applicant or interested party who proposes to make submissions in support of the application for judicial review must submit a skeleton argument at least 7 clear days before the substantive hearing; a respondent or interested party who proposes to make submissions in opposition to the application for judicial review must submit a skeleton argument at least 3 clear days before the substantive hearing.\n\nAn applicant for judicial review should 'put all the cards on the table' by 'exhausting all the grounds and materials the applicant intends to rely upon' at the substantive hearing before the Court of First Instance, as he/she will not be able to raise new grounds and place new materials if an appeal against the judgment of the Court of First Instance is made to the Court of Appeal unless there is a reason of 'exceptional public importance'.\n\nOn 3 December 2015, Henry Litton, a retired judge who sat on the Court of Final Appeal, caused controversy by his claim that the system of judicial review had been \"abused\". \"Judicial review is not available for challenges to government policy,\" he said. \"That is a fundamental rule in the separation of powers. The court is concerned with law, not policy.\" Litton also criticized the way judges dealt with judicial review cases. \n\nShortly afterwards, Winnie Tam, chair of the Bar Association, told the media that not every unsuccessful case of judicial review represented an abuse of the system. \n\nOn 14 December, government spokesman Andrew Fung questioned the neutrality of barristers who disagreed with Litton. He suggested that there may be a conflict of interest, since some barristers profit from judicial review cases. He also complained of the costs incurred by delay caused by judicial review. \n\nOn the same day, former chief justice Andrew Li wrote in an op-ed that \"the pursuit of efficiency must not be at the expense of justice.\" He believed that Litton's criticism of judges was unjustified.\n\nOn 12 January 2016, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying told reporters that while judicial reviews are provided for under Hong Kong's legal system and serve to monitor the Government's work, the judicial review system is sometimes abused. \n\nChief Justice Geoffrey Ma also defended the system against attacks on its inconvenience. \"Although there may occasionally be inconveniences, judicial review overall serves the public interest and facilitates the well-being of our society,\" he said in his speech at the Ceremonial Opening of the Legal Year 2016. \"This status should properly be recognised.\" \n"}
{"id": "34517425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517425", "title": "Kücükdeveci v Swedex GmbH &amp; Co KG", "text": "Kücükdeveci v Swedex GmbH &amp; Co KG\n\nKücükdeveci v Swedex GmbH & Co KG (2010) C-555/07 is a leading EU labour law case, which held that there is a general principle of law in all European Union member states, against discrimination, and in favour of equal treatment.\n\nMs Kücükdeveci argued that the German service related statutory minimum notice period, because it disregarded employment before the age of 25, was unjustifiably discriminatory against young people. She started work at age 18 for Swedex, and was dismissed in 2006 after ten years service. She argued that under the German Civil Code, BGB §622 (which was enacted in 1926, [34]) that she received only one month was discriminatory. She should have had four, were it not for the under-25 exception. After the Landesarbeitsgericht Düsseldorf referred the question, the government argued the aim was to give employers more flexibility by allowing them to dismiss young workers, who can be expected to be more personally and occupationally mobile. The questions were (1)(a) is an age qualification for provisions on reasonable notice discriminatory (b) are they justified (2) if unjustifiable, can private citizens have a direct right of action against employers?\n\nThe European Court of Justice (Grand Chamber) held that the legislation was contrary to the Employment Equality Framework Directive 2000/78/EC, but also following \"Mangold v Helm\" a general principle of equality which permeates all of EU law, to which the Directive merely gave expression. This is more so because the Charter of Fundamental Rights article 21(1) says the same and that has the same legal value as the treaties under TEU art 6(1). Accordingly, in paragraphs [23]-[31], it was held that the legislation in BGB §622 was discriminatory. There was not a sufficient objective justification for the measure, because although the German government's professed aim of wishing to bolster youth employment was legitimate, its measure was disproportionate.\n\nIn paragraphs [44]-[56] the ECJ further held that national courts have a duty to disapply any provision of national legislation contrary to the principle of equal treatment. They should not be compelled to make a reference to the ECJ first.\n"}
{"id": "8089251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8089251", "title": "Larry Laudan", "text": "Larry Laudan\n\nLarry Laudan (; born 1941) is a contemporary American philosopher of science and epistemologist. He has strongly criticized the traditions of positivism, realism, and relativism, and he has defended a view of science as a privileged and progressive institution against popular challenges. Laudan's philosophical view of \"research traditions\" is seen as an important alternative to Imre Lakatos's \"research programs.\"\n\nLaudan took his PhD in Philosophy at Princeton University, and then taught at University College London and, for many years, at the University of Pittsburgh. Subsequently, he taught at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University, University of Hawaii and the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He presently teaches at the University of Texas, Austin. His more recent work has been on legal epistemology.\n\nLaudan's most influential book is \"Progress and its Problems\" (1977), in which he charges philosophers of science with paying lip service to the view that \"science is fundamentally a problem-solving activity\" without taking seriously the view's implications for the history of science and its philosophy, and without questioning certain issues in the historiography and methodology of science. Against empiricism, which is represented by Karl Popper, and \"revolutionism,\" represented by Thomas Kuhn, Laudan maintained in \"Progress and its Problems\" that science is an evolving process that accumulates more empirically validated evidence while solving conceptual anomalies at the same time. Mere evidence collecting or empirical confirmation does not constitute the true mechanism of scientific advancement; conceptual resolution and comparison of the solutions of anomalies provided by various theories form an indispensable part of the evolution of science.\n\nLaudan is particularly well known for his pessimistic induction argument against the claim that the cumulative success of science shows that science must really describe how the world really is. Laudan famously argued in his 1981 article \"A Confutation of Convergent Realism\" that \"the history of science furnishes vast evidence of empirically successful theories that were later rejected; from subsequent perspectives, their unobservable terms were judged not to refer and thus, they cannot be regarded as true or even approximately true.\"\n\nIn \"Beyond Positivism and Relativism\", Laudan wrote that \"the aim of science is to secure theories with a high problem-solving effectiveness\" and that scientific progress is possible when empirical data is diminished. \"Indeed, on this model, it is possible that a change from an empirically well-supported theory to a less well-supported one could be progressive, provided that the latter resolved significant conceptual difficulties confronting the former.\" Finally, the better theory solves more conceptual problems while minimizing empirical anomalies.\n\nLaudan has also written on risk management and the subject of terrorism. He has argued that \"moral outrage and compassion are the proper responses to terrorism, but fear for oneself and one's life is not. The risk that the average American will be a victim of terrorism is extremely remote.\" He wrote \"The Book of Risks\" in 1996 which details the relative risks of various accidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6814963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6814963", "title": "Maladministration", "text": "Maladministration\n\nMaladministration is the actions of a government body which can be seen as causing an injustice. The law in the United Kingdom says Ombudsmen must investigate maladministration.\n\nThe definition of maladministration is wide and can include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5226548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5226548", "title": "Military Provost Staff", "text": "Military Provost Staff\n\nThe Military Provost Staff are the Army's specialists in custody and detention, providing advice inspection and surety within custodial establishments. The MPS form part of the Adjutant General's Corps and are based at the Military Corrective Training Centre (MCTC) in Colchester, Essex.\n\nThe Military Prison Staff Corps was formed in 1901 under Army Order 241. It was redesignated the Military Provost Staff Corps in 1906. As the Military Provost Staff it became part of the Adjutant General's Corps (AGC) on 6 April 1992, forming the Provost Branch along with the Royal Military Police. It retains a separate identity within the AGC, however, keeping its cap badge and other symbols. The MPS does not recruit directly from civilian life, but only accepts applications from soldiers already serving in the Army. All its members hold a minimum rank of Corporal.\n\n"}
{"id": "18862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862", "title": "Minimum wage", "text": "Minimum wage\n\nA minimum wage is the lowest remuneration that employers can legally pay their workers. Equivalently, it is the price floor below which workers may not sell their labor. Although minimum wage laws are in effect in many jurisdictions, differences of opinion exist about the benefits and drawbacks of a minimum wage. Supporters of the minimum wage say it increases the standard of living of workers, reduces poverty, reduces inequality, and boosts morale. In contrast, opponents of the minimum wage say it increases poverty, increases unemployment (particularly among unskilled or inexperienced workers) and is damaging to businesses, because excessively high minimum wages require businesses to raise the prices of their product or service to accommodate the extra expense of paying a higher wage.\n\nSupply and demand models point to welfare and employment losses from minimum wages. However, if the labor market is not perfectly competitive, minimum wages can increase the efficiency of the market. For example, in a monopsony labor market (i.e. only one employer available), a minimum wage set modestly above equilibrium wages can increase wages, employment, and economic efficiency. Considerable debate still exists among economists about the real-world effect of minimum wages.\n\nModern national laws enforcing compulsory union membership which prescribed minimum wages for their members were first passed in New Zealand and Australia in the 1890s. The movement for minimum wages was first motivated as a way to stop the exploitation of workers in sweatshops, by employers who were thought to have unfair bargaining power over them. Over time, minimum wages came to be seen as a way to help lower-income families. Most countries had introduced minimum wage legislation by the end of the 20th century.\n\nModern minimum wage laws trace their origin to the Ordinance of Labourers (1349), which was a decree by King Edward III that set a\" maximum wage\" for laborers in medieval England. King Edward III, who was a wealthy landowner, was dependent, like his lords, on serfs to work the land. In the autumn of 1348, the Black Plague reached England and decimated the population. The severe shortage of labor caused wages to soar and encouraged King Edward III to set a wage ceiling. Subsequent amendments to the ordinance, such as the Statute of Labourers (1351), increased the penalties for paying a wage above the set rates.\n\nWhile the laws governing wages initially set a ceiling on compensation, they were eventually used to set a living wage. An amendment to the Statute of Labourers in 1389 effectively fixed wages to the price of food. As time passed, the Justice of the Peace, who was charged with setting the maximum wage, also began to set formal minimum wages. The practice was eventually formalized with the passage of the Act Fixing a Minimum Wage in 1604 by King James I for workers in the textile industry.\n\nBy the early 19th century, the Statutes of Labourers was repealed as increasingly capitalistic England embraced \"laissez-faire\" policies which disfavored regulations of wages (whether upper or lower limits). The subsequent 19th century saw significant labor unrest affect many industrial nations. As trade unions were decriminalized during the century, attempts to control wages through collective agreement were made. However, this meant that a uniform minimum wage was not possible. In \"Principles of Political Economy\" in 1848, John Stuart Mill argued that because of the collective action problems that workers faced in organisation, it was a justified departure from \"laissez-faire\" policies (or freedom of contract) to regulate people's wages and hours by the law.\n\nIt was not until the 1890s that the first modern legislative attempts to regulate minimum wages were seen in New Zealand and Australia. The movement for a minimum wage was initially focused on stopping sweatshop labor and controlling the proliferation of sweatshops in manufacturing industries. The sweatshops employed large numbers of women and young workers, paying them what were considered to be substandard wages. The sweatshop owners were thought to have unfair bargaining power over their employees, and a minimum wage was proposed as a means to make them pay fairly. Over time, the focus changed to helping people, especially families, become more self-sufficient.\n\nThe first modern national minimum wages were enacted by the government recognition of unions which in turn established minimum wage policy among their members, as in New Zealand in 1894, followed by Australia in 1896 and the United Kingdom in 1909. In the United States, statutory minimum wages were first introduced nationally in 1938, and they were reintroduced and expanded in the United Kingdom in 1998. There is now legislation or binding collective bargaining regarding minimum wage in more than 90 percent of all countries. In the European Union, 22 member states out of 28 currently have national minimum wages. Other countries, such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, Austria, and Italy, have no minimum wage laws, but rely on employer groups and trade unions to set minimum earnings through collective bargaining.\n\nMinimum wage rates vary greatly across many different jurisdictions, not only in setting a particular amount of money—for example $7.25 per hour ($14,500 per year) under certain US state laws (or $2.13 for employees who receive tips, which is known as the tipped minimum wage), $11.00 in the US state of Washington, or £7.83 (for those aged 25+) in the United Kingdom—but also in terms of which pay period (for example Russia and China set monthly minimum wages) or the scope of coverage. Currently the American federal minimum wage rests at seven dollars, twenty-five cents ($7.25) per hour. However, some states do not recognize the minimum wage law such as Louisiana and Tennessee. Other states operate below the federal minimum wage such as Georgia and Wyoming. Some jurisdictions even allow employers to count tips given to their workers as credit towards the minimum wage levels. India was one of the first developing countries to introduce minimum wage policy. It also has one of the most complicated systems with more than 1,200 minimum wage rates.\n\nCustoms and extra-legal pressures from governments or labor unions can produce a \"de facto\" minimum wage. So can international public opinion, by pressuring multinational companies to pay Third World workers wages usually found in more industrialized countries. The latter situation in Southeast Asia and Latin America was publicized in the 2000s, but it existed with companies in West Africa in the middle of the twentieth century.\n\nAmong the indicators that might be used to establish an initial minimum wage rate are ones that minimize the loss of jobs while preserving international competitiveness. Among these are general economic conditions as measured by real and nominal gross domestic product; inflation; labor supply and demand; wage levels, distribution and differentials; employment terms; productivity growth; labor costs; business operating costs; the number and trend of bankruptcies; economic freedom rankings; standards of living and the prevailing average wage rate.\n\nIn the business sector, concerns include the expected increased cost of doing business, threats to profitability, rising levels of unemployment (and subsequent higher government expenditure on welfare benefits raising tax rates), and the possible knock-on effects to the wages of more experienced workers who might already be earning the new statutory minimum wage, or slightly more. Among workers and their representatives, political considerations weigh in as labor leaders seek to win support by demanding the highest possible rate. Other concerns include purchasing power, inflation indexing and standardized working hours.\n\nIn the United States, the minimum wage promulgated by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the minimum wage in the United States would have been $18.28 in 2013 if the minimum wage had kept pace with labor productivity. To adjust for increased rates of worker productivity in the United States, raising the minimum wage to $22 (or more) an hour has been presented.\n\nAccording to the supply and demand model of the labor market shown in many economics textbooks, increasing the minimum wage decreases the employment of minimum-wage workers. One such textbook states:\nA firm's cost is an increasing function of the wage rate. The higher the wage rate, the fewer hours an employer will demand of employees. This is because, as the wage rate rises, it becomes more expensive for firms to hire workers and so firms hire fewer workers (or hire them for fewer hours). The demand of labor curve is therefore shown as a line moving down and to the right. Since higher wages increase the quantity supplied, the supply of labor curve is upward sloping, and is shown as a line moving up and to the right. If no minimum wage is in place, wages will adjust until quantity of labor demanded is equal to quantity supplied, reaching equilibrium, where the supply and demand curves intersect. Minimum wage behaves as a classical price floor on labor. Standard theory says that, if set above the equilibrium price, more labor will be willing to be provided by workers than will be demanded by employers, creating a surplus of labor, i.e. unemployment. The economic model of markets predicts the same of other commodities (like milk and wheat, for example): Artificially raising the price of the commodity tends to cause an increase in quantity supplied and a decrease in quantity demanded. The result is a surplus of the commodity. When there is a wheat surplus, the government buys it. Since the government does not hire surplus labor, the labor surplus takes the form of unemployment, which tends to be higher with minimum wage laws than without them.\n\nThe supply and demand model implies that by mandating a price floor above the equilibrium wage, minimum wage laws will cause unemployment. This is because a greater number of people are willing to work at the higher wage while a smaller number of jobs will be available at the higher wage. Companies can be more selective in those whom they employ thus the least skilled and least experienced will typically be excluded. An imposition or increase of a minimum wage will generally only affect employment in the low-skill labor market, as the equilibrium wage is already at or below the minimum wage, whereas in higher skill labor markets the equilibrium wage is too high for a change in minimum wage to affect employment.\n\nThe supply and demand model predicts that raising the minimum wage helps workers whose wages are raised, and hurts people who are not hired (or lose their jobs) when companies cut back on employment. But proponents of the minimum wage hold that the situation is much more complicated than the model can account for. One complicating factor is possible monopsony in the labor market, whereby the individual employer has some market power in determining wages paid. Thus it is at least theoretically possible that the minimum wage may boost employment. Though single employer market power is unlikely to exist in most labor markets in the sense of the traditional 'company town,' asymmetric information, imperfect mobility, and the personal element of the labor transaction give some degree of wage-setting power to most firms.\n\nModern economic theory predicts that although an excessive minimum wage may raise unemployment as it fixes a price above most demand for labor, a minimum wage at a more reasonable level can increase employment, and enhance growth and efficiency. This is because labor markets are monopsonistic and workers persistently lack bargaining power. When poorer workers have more to spend it stimulates effective aggregate demand for goods and services.\n\nThe argument that a minimum wage decreases employment is based on a simple supply and demand model of the labor market. A number of economists (for example Pierangelo Garegnani, Robert L. Vienneau, and Arrigo Opocher & Ian Steedman), building on the work of Piero Sraffa, argue that that model, even given all its assumptions, is logically incoherent. Michael Anyadike-Danes and Wynne Godley argue, based on simulation results, that little of the empirical work done with the textbook model constitutes a potentially falsifiable theory, and consequently empirical evidence hardly exists for that model. Graham White argues, partially on the basis of Sraffianism, that the policy of increased labor market flexibility, including the reduction of minimum wages, does not have an \"intellectually coherent\" argument in economic theory.Gary Fields, Professor of Labor Economics and Economics at Cornell University, argues that the standard textbook model for the minimum wage is ambiguous, and that the standard theoretical arguments incorrectly measure only a one-sector market. Fields says a two-sector market, where \"the self-employed, service workers, and farm workers are typically excluded from minimum-wage coverage... [and with] one sector with minimum-wage coverage and the other without it [and possible mobility between the two],\" is the basis for better analysis. Through this model, Fields shows the typical theoretical argument to be ambiguous and says \"the predictions derived from the textbook model definitely do not carry over to the two-sector case. Therefore, since a non-covered sector exists nearly everywhere, the predictions of the textbook model simply cannot be relied on.\"\n\nAn alternate view of the labor market has low-wage labor markets characterized as monopsonistic competition wherein buyers (employers) have significantly more market power than do sellers (workers). This monopsony could be a result of intentional collusion between employers, or naturalistic factors such as segmented markets, search costs, information costs, imperfect mobility and the personal element of labor markets. In such a case a simple supply and demand graph would not yield the quantity of labor clearing and the wage rate. This is because while the upward sloping aggregate labor supply would remain unchanged, instead of using the upward labor supply curve shown in a supply and demand diagram, monopsonistic employers would use a steeper upward sloping curve corresponding to marginal expenditures to yield the intersection with the supply curve resulting in a wage rate lower than would be the case under competition. Also, the amount of labor sold would also be lower than the competitive optimal allocation.\n\nSuch a case is a type of market failure and results in workers being paid less than their marginal value. Under the monopsonistic assumption, an appropriately set minimum wage could increase both wages and employment, with the optimal level being equal to the marginal product of labor. This view emphasizes the role of minimum wages as a market regulation policy akin to antitrust policies, as opposed to an illusory \"free lunch\" for low-wage workers.\n\nAnother reason minimum wage may not affect employment in certain industries is that the demand for the product the employees produce is highly inelastic. For example, if management is forced to increase wages, management can pass on the increase in wage to consumers in the form of higher prices. Since demand for the product is highly inelastic, consumers continue to buy the product at the higher price and so the manager is not forced to lay off workers. Economist Paul Krugman argues this explanation neglects to explain why the firm was not charging this higher price absent the minimum wage.\n\nThree other possible reasons minimum wages do not affect employment were suggested by Alan Blinder: higher wages may reduce turnover, and hence training costs; raising the minimum wage may \"render moot\" the potential problem of recruiting workers at a higher wage than current workers; and minimum wage workers might represent such a small proportion of a business's cost that the increase is too small to matter. He admits that he does not know if these are correct, but argues that \"the list demonstrates that one can accept the new empirical findings and still be a card-carrying economist.\"\n\nEconomists disagree as to the measurable impact of minimum wages in practice. This disagreement usually takes the form of competing empirical tests of the elasticities of supply and demand in labor markets and the degree to which markets differ from the efficiency that models of perfect competition predict.\n\nEconomists have done empirical studies on different aspects of the minimum wage, including:\nUntil the mid-1990s, a general consensus existed among economists, both conservative and liberal, that the minimum wage reduced employment, especially among younger and low-skill workers. In addition to the basic supply-demand intuition, there were a number of empirical studies that supported this view. For example, Gramlich (1976) found that many of the benefits went to higher income families, and that teenagers were made worse off by the unemployment associated with the minimum wage.\n\nBrown et al. (1983) noted that time series studies to that point had found that for a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage, there was a decrease in teenage employment of 1–3 percent. However, the studies found wider variation, from 0 to over 3 percent, in their estimates for the effect on teenage unemployment (teenagers without a job and looking for one). In contrast to the simple supply and demand diagram, it was commonly found that teenagers withdrew from the labor force in response to the minimum wage, which produced the possibility of equal reductions in the supply as well as the demand for labor at a higher minimum wage and hence no impact on the unemployment rate. Using a variety of specifications of the employment and unemployment equations (using ordinary least squares vs. generalized least squares regression procedures, and linear vs. logarithmic specifications), they found that a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage caused a 1 percent decrease in teenage employment, and no change in the teenage unemployment rate. The study also found a small, but statistically significant, increase in unemployment for adults aged 20–24.\n\nWellington (1991) updated Brown et al.'s research with data through 1986 to provide new estimates encompassing a period when the real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) value of the minimum wage was declining, because it had not increased since 1981. She found that a 10% increase in the minimum wage decreased the absolute teenage employment by 0.6%, with no effect on the teen or young adult unemployment rates.\n\nSome research suggests that the unemployment effects of small minimum wage increases are dominated by other factors. In Florida, where voters approved an increase in 2004, a follow-up comprehensive study after the increase confirmed a strong economy with increased employment above previous years in Florida and better than in the US as a whole. When it comes to on-the-job training, some believe the increase in wages is taken out of training expenses. A 2001 empirical study found that there is \"no evidence that minimum wages reduce training, and little evidence that they tend to increase training.\"\n\nSome empirical studies have tried to ascertain the benefits of a minimum wage beyond employment effects. In an analysis of census data, Joseph Sabia and Robert Nielson found no statistically significant evidence that minimum wage increases helped reduce financial, housing, health, or food insecurity. This study was undertaken by the Employment Policies Institute, a think tank funded by the food, beverage and hospitality industries. In 2012, Michael Reich published an economic analysis that suggested that a proposed minimum wage hike in San Diego might stimulate the city's economy by about $190 million.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in December 2013: \"A minimum wage, providing it is not set too high, could thus boost pay with no ill effects on jobs...America's federal minimum wage, at 38% of median income, is one of the rich world's lowest. Some studies find no harm to employment from federal or state minimum wages, others see a small one, but none finds any serious damage. ... High minimum wages, however, particularly in rigid labour markets, do appear to hit employment. France has the rich world’s highest wage floor, at more than 60% of the median for adults and a far bigger fraction of the typical wage for the young. This helps explain why France also has shockingly high rates of youth unemployment: 26% for 15- to 24-year-olds.\"\n\nA 2018 study from the Center on Wage and Employment Dynamics at the University of California, Berkeley showed that minimum wage increases in Washington, Chicago, Seattle, San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose gave workers higher pay without hampering job growth. \n\nIn 1992, the minimum wage in New Jersey increased from $4.25 to $5.05 per hour (an 18.8% increase), while in the adjacent state of Pennsylvania it remained at $4.25. David Card and Alan Krueger gathered information on fast food restaurants in New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania in an attempt to see what effect this increase had on employment within New Jersey. A basic supply and demand model predicts that relative employment should have decreased in New Jersey. Card and Krueger surveyed employers before the April 1992 New Jersey increase, and again in November–December 1992, asking managers for data on the full-time equivalent staff level of their restaurants both times. Based on data from the employers' responses, the authors concluded that the increase in the minimum wage slightly increased employment in the New Jersey restaurants.\n\nCard and Krueger expanded on this initial article in their 1995 book \"Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage\". They argued that the negative employment effects of minimum wage laws are minimal if not non-existent. For example, they look at the 1992 increase in New Jersey's minimum wage, the 1988 rise in California's minimum wage, and the 1990–91 increases in the federal minimum wage. In addition to their own findings, they reanalyzed earlier studies with updated data, generally finding that the older results of a negative employment effect did not hold up in the larger datasets.\n\nIn 1996, David Neumark and William Wascher reexamined Card and Krueger's result using administrative payroll records from a sample of large fast food restaurant chains, and reported that minimum wage increases were followed by decreases in employment. An assessment of data collected and analyzed by Neumark and Wascher did not initially contradict the Card and Krueger results, but in a later edited version they found a four percent decrease in employment, and reported that \"the estimated disemployment effects in the payroll data are often statistically significant at the 5- or 10-percent level although there are some estimators and subsamples that yield insignificant—although almost always negative\" employment effects. Neumark and Wascher's conclusions were subsequently rebutted in a 2000 paper by Card and Krueger. A 2011 paper has reconciled the difference between Card and Krueger's survey data and Neumark and Wascher's payroll-based data. The paper shows that both datasets evidence conditional employment effects that are positive for small restaurants, but are negative for large fast-food restaurants. A 2014 analysis based on panel data found that the minimum wage reduces employment among teenagers.\n\nIn 1996 and 1997, the federal minimum wage was increased from $4.25 to $5.15, thereby increasing the minimum wage by $0.90 in Pennsylvania but by just $0.10 in New Jersey; this allowed for an examination of the effects of minimum wage increases in the same area, subsequent to the 1992 change studied by Card and Krueger. A study by Hoffman and Trace found the result anticipated by traditional theory: a detrimental effect on employment.\n\nFurther application of the methodology used by Card and Krueger by other researchers yielded results similar to their original findings, across additional data sets. A 2010 study by three economists (Arindrajit Dube of the University of Massachusetts Amherst, William Lester of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Michael Reich of the University of California, Berkeley), compared adjacent counties in different states where the minimum wage had been raised in one of the states. They analyzed employment trends for several categories of low-wage workers from 1990 to 2006 and found that increases in minimum wages had no negative effects on low-wage employment and successfully increased the income of workers in food services and retail employment, as well as the narrower category of workers in restaurants.\n\nHowever, a 2011 study by Baskaya and Rubinstein of Brown University found that at the federal level, \"a rise in minimum wage have [\"sic\"] an instantaneous impact on wage rates and a corresponding negative impact on employment\", stating, \"Minimum wage increases boost teenage wage rates and reduce teenage employment.\" Another 2011 study by Sen, Rybczynski, and Van De Waal found that \"a 10% increase in the minimum wage is significantly correlated with a 3−5% drop in teen employment.\" A 2012 study by Sabia, Hansen, and Burkhauser found that \"minimum wage increases can have substantial adverse labor demand effects for low-skilled individuals\", with the largest effects on those aged 16 to 24.\n\nA 2013 study by Meer and West concluded that \"the minimum wage reduces net job growth, primarily through its effect on job creation by expanding establishments ... most pronounced for younger workers and in industries with a higher proportion of low-wage workers.\" This study by Meer and West was later critiqued for its trends of assumption in the context of narrowly defined low-wage groups. The authors replied to the critiques and released additional data which addressed the criticism of their methodology, but did not resolve the issue of whether their data showed a causal relationship. Another 2013 study by Suzana Laporšek of the University of Primorska, on youth unemployment in Europe claimed there was \"a negative, statistically significant impact of minimum wage on youth employment.\" A 2013 study by labor economists Tony Fang and Carl Lin which studied minimum wages and employment in China, found that \"minimum wage changes have significant adverse effects on employment in the Eastern and Central regions of China, and result in disemployment for females, young adults, and low-skilled workers\".\n\nSeveral researchers have conducted statistical meta-analyses of the employment effects of the minimum wage. In 1995, Card and Krueger analyzed 14 earlier time-series studies on minimum wages and concluded that there was clear evidence of publication bias (in favor of studies that found a statistically significant negative employment effect). They point out that later studies, which had more data and lower standard errors, did not show the expected increase in t-statistic (almost all the studies had a t-statistic of about two, just above the level of statistical significance at the .05 level). Though a serious methodological indictment, opponents of the minimum wage largely ignored this issue; as Thomas Leonard noted, \"The silence is fairly deafening.\"\n\nIn 2005, T.D. Stanley showed that Card and Krueger's results could signify either publication bias or the absence of a minimum wage effect. However, using a different methodology, Stanley concluded that there is evidence of publication bias and that correction of this bias shows no relationship between the minimum wage and unemployment. In 2008, Hristos Doucouliagos and T.D. Stanley conducted a similar meta-analysis of 64 U.S. studies on disemployment effects and concluded that Card and Krueger's initial claim of publication bias is still correct. Moreover, they concluded, \"Once this publication selection is corrected, little or no evidence of a negative association between minimum wages and employment remains.\" In 2013, a meta-analysis of 16 UK studies found no significant effects on employment attributable to the minimum wage. a 2007 meta-analyses by David Neumark of 96 studies found a consistent, but not always statistically significant, negative effect on employment from increases in the minimum wage. \n\nMinimum wage laws affect workers in most low-paid fields of employment and have usually been judged against the criterion of reducing poverty. Minimum wage laws receive less support from economists than from the general public. Despite decades of experience and economic research, debates about the costs and benefits of minimum wages continue today.\n\nVarious groups have great ideological, political, financial, and emotional investments in issues surrounding minimum wage laws. For example, agencies that administer the laws have a vested interest in showing that \"their\" laws do not create unemployment, as do labor unions whose members' finances are protected by minimum wage laws. On the other side of the issue, low-wage employers such as restaurants finance the Employment Policies Institute, which has released numerous studies opposing the minimum wage. The presence of these powerful groups and factors means that the debate on the issue is not always based on dispassionate analysis. Additionally, it is extraordinarily difficult to separate the effects of minimum wage from all the other variables that affect employment.\n\nThe following table summarizes the arguments made by those for and against minimum wage laws:\n\nA widely circulated argument that the minimum wage was ineffective at reducing poverty was provided by George Stigler in 1949:\nIn 2006, the International Labour Organization (ILO) argued that the minimum wage could not be directly linked to unemployment in countries that have suffered job losses. In April 2010, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released a report arguing that countries could alleviate teen unemployment by \"lowering the cost of employing low-skilled youth\" through a sub-minimum training wage. A study of U.S. states showed that businesses' annual and average payrolls grow faster and employment grew at a faster rate in states with a minimum wage. The study showed a correlation, but did not claim to prove causation.\n\nAlthough strongly opposed by both the business community and the Conservative Party when introduced in the UK in 1999, the Conservatives reversed their opposition in 2000. Accounts differ as to the effects of the minimum wage. The Centre for Economic Performance found no discernible impact on employment levels from the wage increases, while the Low Pay Commission found that employers had reduced their rate of hiring and employee hours employed, and found ways to cause current workers to be more productive (especially service companies). The Institute for the Study of Labor found prices in the minimum wage sector rose significantly faster than prices in non-minimum wage sectors, in the four years following the implementation of the minimum wage. Neither trade unions nor employer organizations contest the minimum wage, although the latter had especially done so heavily until 1999.\n\nIn 2014, supporters of minimum wage cited a study that found that job creation within the United States is faster in states that raised their minimum wages. In 2014, supporters of minimum wage cited news organizations who reported the state with the highest minimum-wage garnered more job creation than the rest of the United States.\n\nIn 2014, in Seattle, Washington, liberal and progressive business owners who had supported the city's new $15 minimum wage said they might hold off on expanding their businesses and thus creating new jobs, due to the uncertain timescale of the wage increase implementation. However, subsequently at least two of the business owners quoted did expand.\n\nThe dollar value of the minimum wage loses purchasing power over time due to inflation. Minimum wage laws, for instance proposals to index the minimum wage to average wages, have the potential to keep the dollar value of the minimum wage relevant and predictable.\n\nWith regard to the economic effects of introducing minimum wage legislation in Germany in January 2015, recent developments have shown that the feared increase in unemployment has not materialized, however, in some economic sectors and regions of the country, it came to a decline in job opportunities particularly for temporary and part-time workers, and some low-wage jobs have disappeared entirely. Because of this overall positive development, the Deutsche Bundesbank revised its opinion, and ascertained that “the impact of the introduction of the minimum wage on the total volume of work appears to be very limited in the present business cycle”.\n\nAccording to a 1978 article in the \"American Economic Review\", 90% of the economists surveyed agreed that the minimum wage increases unemployment among low-skilled workers. By 1992 the survey found 79% of economists in agreement with that statement, and by 2000, 46% were in full agreement with the statement and 28% agreed with provisos (74% total). The authors of the 2000 study also reweighted data from a 1990 sample to show that at that time 62% of academic economists agreed with the statement above, while 20% agreed with provisos and 18% disagreed. They state that the reduction on consensus on this question is \"likely\" due to the Card and Krueger research and subsequent debate.\n\nA similar survey in 2006 by Robert Whaples polled PhD members of the American Economic Association (AEA). Whaples found that 47% respondents wanted the minimum wage eliminated, 38% supported an increase, 14% wanted it kept at the current level, and 1% wanted it decreased. Another survey in 2007 conducted by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center found that 73% of labor economists surveyed in the United States believed 150% of the then-current minimum wage would result in employment losses and 68% believed a mandated minimum wage would cause an increase in hiring of workers with greater skills. 31% felt that no hiring changes would result.\n\nSurveys of labor economists have found a sharp split on the minimum wage. Fuchs et al. (1998) polled labor economists at the top 40 research universities in the United States on a variety of questions in the summer of 1996. Their 65 respondents were nearly evenly divided when asked if the minimum wage should be increased. They argued that the different policy views were not related to views on whether raising the minimum wage would reduce teen employment (the median economist said there would be a reduction of 1%), but on value differences such as income redistribution. Daniel B. Klein and Stewart Dompe conclude, on the basis of previous surveys, \"the average level of support for the minimum wage is somewhat higher among labor economists than among AEA members.\"\n\nIn 2007, Klein and Dompe conducted a non-anonymous survey of supporters of the minimum wage who had signed the \"Raise the Minimum Wage\" statement published by the Economic Policy Institute. 95 of the 605 signatories responded. They found that a majority signed on the grounds that it transferred income from employers to workers, or equalized bargaining power between them in the labor market. In addition, a majority considered disemployment to be a moderate potential drawback to the increase they supported.\n\nIn 2013, a diverse group of 37 economics professors was surveyed on their view of the minimum wage's impact on employment. 34% of respondents agreed with the statement, \"Raising the federal minimum wage to $9 per hour would make it noticeably harder for low-skilled workers to find employment.\" 32% disagreed and the remaining respondents were uncertain or had no opinion on the question. 47% agreed with the statement, \"The distortionary costs of raising the federal minimum wage to $9 per hour and indexing it to inflation are sufficiently small compared with the benefits to low-skilled workers who can find employment that this would be a desirable policy\", while 11% disagreed.\n\nEconomists and other political commentators have proposed alternatives to the minimum wage. They argue that these alternatives may address the issue of poverty better than a minimum wage, as it would benefit a broader population of low wage earners, not cause any unemployment, and distribute the costs widely rather than concentrating it on employers of low wage workers.\n\nA basic income (or negative income tax) is a system of social security that periodically provides each citizen with a sum of money that is sufficient to live on frugally. It is argued that recipients of the basic income would have considerably more bargaining power when negotiating a wage with an employer as there would be no risk of destitution for not taking the employment. As a result, the jobseeker could spend more time looking for a more appropriate or satisfying job, or they could wait until a higher-paying job appeared. Alternatively, they could spend more time increasing their skills in university, which would make them more suitable for higher-paying jobs, as well as provide numerous other benefits. Experiments on Basic Income and NIT in Canada and the USA show that people spent more time studying while the program was running.\n\nProponents argue that a basic income that is based on a broad tax base would be more economically efficient, as the minimum wage effectively imposes a high marginal tax on employers, causing losses in efficiency.\n\nA guaranteed minimum income is another proposed system of social welfare provision. It is similar to a basic income or negative income tax system, except that it is normally conditional and subject to a means test. Some proposals also stipulate a willingness to participate in the labor market, or a willingness to perform community services.\n\nA refundable tax credit is a mechanism whereby the tax system can reduce the tax owed by a household to below zero, and result in a net payment to the taxpayer beyond their own payments into the tax system. Examples of refundable tax credits include the earned income tax credit and the additional child tax credit in the US, and working tax credits and child tax credits in the UK. Such a system is slightly different from a negative income tax, in that the refundable tax credit is usually only paid to households that have earned at least some income. This policy is more targeted against poverty than the minimum wage, because it avoids subsidizing low-income workers who are supported by high-income households (for example, teenagers still living with their parents).\n\nIn the United States, earned income tax credit rates, also known as EITC or EIC, vary by state—some are refundable while other states do not allow a refundable tax credit. The federal EITC program has been expanded by a number of presidents including Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bill Clinton. In 1986, President Reagan described the EITC as \"the best anti poverty, the best pro-family, the best job creation measure to come out of Congress.\" The ability of the earned income tax credit to deliver larger monetary benefits to the poor workers than an increase in the minimum wage and at a lower cost to society was documented in a 2007 report by the Congressional Budget Office.\n\nThe Adam Smith Institute prefers cutting taxes on the poor and middle class instead of raising wages as an alternative to the minimum wage.\n\nItaly, Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Denmark are examples of developed nations where there is no minimum wage that is required by legislation. Such nations, particularly the Nordics, have very high union participation rates. Instead, minimum wage standards in different sectors are set by collective bargaining.\n\nSome economists such as Scott Sumner and Edmund Phelps advocate a wage subsidy program. A wage subsidy is a payment made by a government for work people do. It is based either on an hourly basis or by income earned. Advocates argue that the primary deficiencies of the EITC and the minimum wage are best avoided by a wage subsidy. However, the wage subsidy in the United States suffers from a lack of political support from either major political party.\n\nIn January 2014, seven Nobel economists—Kenneth Arrow, Peter Diamond, Eric Maskin, Thomas Schelling, Robert Solow, Michael Spence, and Joseph Stiglitz—and 600 other economists wrote a letter to the US Congress and the US President urging that, by 2016, the US government should raise the minimum wage to $10.10. They endorsed the Minimum Wage Fairness Act which was introduced by US Senator Tom Harkin in 2013. U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders introduced a bill in 2015 that would raise the minimum wage to $15, and in his 2016 campaign for president ran on a platform of increasing it. Although Sanders did not become the nominee, the Democratic National Committee adopted his $15 minimum wage push in their 2016 party platform.\n\nReactions from former McDonald's USA Ed Rensi about raising minimum wage to $15 is to completely push humans out of the picture when it comes to labor if they are to pay minimum wage at $15 they would look into replacing humans with machines as that would be the more cost-effective than having employees that are ineffective. During an interview on FOX Business Network’s Mornings with Maria, he stated that he believes an increase to $15 an hour would cause job loss at an extraordinary level. Rensi also believes it does not only affect the fast food industry, franchising he sees as the best business model in the United States, it is dependent on people that have low job skills that have to grow and if you cannot pay them a reasonable wage then they are going to be replaced with machines.\n\nIn late March 2016, Governor of California Jerry Brown reached a deal to raise the minimum wage to $15 by 2022 for big businesses and 2023 for smaller businesses.\n\nIn contrast, the relatively high minimum wage in Puerto Rico has been blamed by various politicians and commentators as a highly significant factor in the Puerto Rican government-debt crisis. One study concluded that \"Employers are disinclined to hire workers because the US federal minimum wage is very high relative to the local average\".\n\n, unions were exempt from recent minimum wage increases in Chicago, Illinois, SeaTac, Washington, and Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, as well as the California cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Long Beach, San Jose, Richmond, and Oakland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5157044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5157044", "title": "Mudawana", "text": "Mudawana\n\nThe Mudawana (or Moudawana, ), short for \"mudawwanat al-aḥwāl al-shakhṣiyyah\", is the personal status code, also known as the family code, in Moroccan law. It concerns issues related to the family, including the regulation of marriage, polygamy, divorce, inheritance, and child custody. Originally based on the Maliki school of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence, it was codified after the country gained independence from France in 1956. Its most recent revision, passed by the Moroccan parliament in 2004, has been praised by human rights activists for its measures to address women's rights and gender equality within an Islamic legal framework.\n\nAlthough there were calls for reform to the family law in the 1960s and 70s, its religious origins made amending it a challenge, and no serious movement for reform emerged until the 1980s. As a result of newly created civil society organizations, including many women's organizations, and increased international attention on women's rights, modest reforms to the Mudawana were enacted in 1993 under King Hassan II. Following this initial change, increased activism resulted in the articulation of a Plan of Action for the Integration of Women in Development, which drew heavily from secular, rights-based frameworks. This sparked fierce debate and opposition within Moroccan political elites and, to a somewhat lesser extent, Moroccan society, and culminated in two rallies in Casablanca and Rabat in March 2000 – one in support of reform and one in opposition to it. This occurred shortly after Mohammad VI succeeded his father as King, and within a year of the rallies, he announced the formation of a commission to further reform the Mudawana. In 2003, he announced his intention to replace the code entirely, citing his authority as both spiritual and political leader of the nation, and by January 2004, the Moroccan parliament ratified the new version.\n\nMajor components of the reforms included raising the minimum legal age of marriage to 18 for men and women, establishing joint responsibility for the family among men and women, limiting the terms of polygamy and divorce, and granting women more rights in the negotiation of marriage contracts, among other provisions. Supporters of the reforms point to broad support for them among Moroccan society, especially among women, and cite the new law as a successful example of a progressive reform framed in indigenous, Islamic principles. Critics of the reforms point to the elitist roots of the movements that advocated for the reforms, the influence of Western secular principles, and the many barriers to the law's implementation within Moroccan society.\n\nMalik ibn Anas, the founder of the Maliki school of Sunni Islam, wrote \"Al-Muwatta\", which was an 8th-century collection of hadith, or sayings, of Muhammad, his family, and his companions. These sayings were collected and published by Malik, along with commentary. This formed the foundation of one of the four major Sunni schools of Islamic jurisprudence still in existence today. The Maliki school has been the dominant source of Islamic jurisprudence in Morocco since the 10th century.\n\nMorocco has been described as a “liberalized autocracy.\" Its constitution grants the majority of executive powers to the monarch, including the power to appoint major ministers and regional governors, and the power to set the priorities of the national agenda; this effectively limits the power of political parties and the elected members of Parliament. Many argue that the electoral system's main function is to serve as a means for the monarchy to create and manipulate a dependent class of political elites. Practically speaking, despite multiparty elections, the monarchy, and not parliament, is the site of strategic political decision-making in Morocco.\n\nThe King is not only a political leader, but also holds the title “Commander of the Faithful,” indicating his role as a religious leader as well. The royal family of Morocco, which claims descent from the Prophet Muhammad, therefore enjoys a sense of political legitimacy rooted in Islam and also has the power to dictate the form that Islam takes within Moroccan society. As a result, this traditional form of religious authority gives the monarch the political legitimacy to arbitrate the agenda and decisions of a modern, multiparty government.\n\nGenerally speaking, the monarchy, Islam, and the territorial integrity of the Moroccan nation are considered to be the nation's three inviolable \"sacred institutions.\" Challenges to these three institutions, whether through questioning the king's authority or the legitimacy of Islamic law as the basis for legal codes, are technically imprisonable offenses. These conditions have impacted the process of reforming Moroccan family law significantly.\n\nHistorically, the creation of the Mudawana in Moroccan law represented a major step in the political and legal unification of Morocco after it gained independence from the French. Its first version was written in 1957-8 by a group of ten male religious scholars (Ulama) working under the auspices of the monarchy; its substance drew heavily on classical Maliki law. As the French had ruled Morocco with a policy of legal pluralism (maintaining, for example, the existence of Berber customary law within Berber communities), the new Mudawana was intended to signify the nation's unity, Islamic identity, and modernity. It did this in part by codifying the system of existing patriarchal, kin-based social structures within the newly independent state. In addition, the Mudawana is the only section of Moroccan law that relies primarily on Islamic sources, rather than Spanish or French civil codes, which gave it a greater sense of immutability and contributed to the difficulty of reforming it later on. A state's family or personal status law has wide-ranging implications for citizens' daily lives, but many gender equality advocates point out its particular significance for women, as it governs the age at which they may be married, issues of divorce and child custody, and their right to work and travel outside the home. Even as various Muslim-majority states have expanded public civil and political rights for women, separate family laws rooted in Shari'a have often remained unchanged; for many Muslims, these family laws remain an untouchable symbol of Muslim identity.\n\nIn 1969, King Hassan II created the \"Union Nationale des Femmes Marocaines\" (UNFM), an organization with the stated goal of improving the social and economic status of women in Morocco. The activities of the UNFM focused less on legal reform and more on professional and training programs for women. It was given the legal status of a \"utilité publique\", an important designation for Moroccan civil society organizations, which allows them to raise funds and be exempt from taxes (similar to non-profit status in the United States). Historically, this distinction, which must be conferred by the government, has provided a way for the Moroccan regime to exert a measure of control over civil society organizations, as those whose agendas conflict with that of the government typically find it difficult to obtain \"utilité publique\" status. Without this license, an association will have difficulty securing funding and has no right to recourse within the Moroccan justice system.\n\nIn the 1980s, a financial crisis led King Hassan II to implement a program of structural adjustment that included some social reforms, leading to increased activity among political and civil society organizations. This included the founding of many new women's associations, many of which began as affiliates of existing political parties. This affiliation lends them a sense of legitimacy as well as connections and support, but some argue that it limits their autonomy as well.\n\nThe proliferation of civil society organizations flourished even more in the 1990s, due in part to King Hassan II's active support for them, which reflected a worldwide trend of civil society promotion. Some have argued that the king's support was motivated as much by international pressures and his desire to join the European Union as domestic economic and political problems. It was in this environment that calls for reform to the Mudawana first began to gain traction. All of Morocco's major women's organizations have positioned their work within an Islamic framework in some way, drawing on the work of Islamic scholars to inform their agendas.\n\nDespite numerous calls for reform throughout the 1960s and 70s, it was not until 1982 that women's legal status was brought to the forefront of public debate in Morocco. Eventually, public debates and discussions led to a broad rewriting of the Mudawana in 2003–4, which many attribute to the increase in activity and organization within Moroccan civil society in the 1990s as well as a changing international environment surrounding women's rights and gender equality. Beginning in the 1990s, women's rights organizations in Morocco gained leverage and influence by incorporating progressive elements from academia, publishing, and government, and using rhetoric that drew from Islamic sources as well as the language of national development and the rights of women and children.\n\nIn 1991, this was manifested in concrete political action as \"l’Union de l’Action Féminine\" (UAF), a women's group within one of Morocco's Marxist–Leninist political parties and consisting mainly of professional, middle class women, collected one million signatures on a petition calling for Mudawana reform and presented it to the Prime Minister. This move demonstrated significant political support behind the idea of reform, and framed the issue more as one of politics and human rights than religion (indicated in part by the delivery of the petition to the prime minister, the nominal head of the government, as opposed to the king of Morocco, who is also a spiritual leader). Their primary aims were to change the discriminatory elements of the code, including polygamy and the principle that a husband has ultimate authority over his wife. The proposed reforms drew not only on principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights but also on the Islamic principles of equality, justice, and tolerance. In response, King Hassan II created a commission (which he chaired) composed of 21 religious scholars – only one of them female – and a representative of the Royal Court for the purpose of reforming the Mudawana according to the Islamic tradition of \"ijtihad\". The events were not without controversy, however, generating both a counter-petition as well as a \"fatwa\" directed against the women's demands.\n\nThis commission resulted in a number of changes, implemented in 1993, which instituted provisions that (among other things) required a bride's verbal consent to marriage, eliminated a father's right to force his daughter to marry, and mandated the obtainment of a judge's permission in cases of polygamy and a husband's repudiation of his wife. Generally these reforms were considered superficial, but significant as an indicator that the Mudawana was not an unchangeable standard, as it had previously been perceived. Considering the religious origin of the laws, the fact that they had been amended at all was a significant step in demonstrating that they were subject to the process of \"ijtihad\" and not completely unchangeable.\n\nTowards the end of his reign, in the late 1990s, King Hassan II opened up the political process to opposition parties, such as the Socialist Party (USFP) and the \"Parti du Progres et du Socialism\" (PPS). The latter, which came to be associated with the \"Association Marocaine pour les Droits des Femmes\" (ADFM), played a key role in a working group that examined the family code. This group, with input from several Moroccan women's organizations and funding from the World Bank, produced \"Le Plan d’action national pour l’intégration de la femme au développement\" (The Plan of Action for the Integration of Women in Development, or PAIWD). By the time the plan was introduced, King Hassan II had died and his son, King Mohammed VI, had taken the throne.\n\nThe PAIWD was formulated and promoted in the context of Morocco's 1993 ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the Platform for Action established at the Beijing Conference on Women in 1995, and the Moroccan government's subsequent commitment to developing a national strategy to address the status of women that year. Arising from this context, the PAIWD did not explicitly reference Islamic values, and was more closely related to a “development discourse” that formed a crucial element of Mohammad VI's national agenda. The PAIWD's main areas of focus were education, reproductive health, the involvement of women in development, and empowerment through legal reforms and a strengthening of political power.\n\nThe creation of the PAIWD, and the stir it caused, effectively created two opposing political factions among Morocco's political elite, one identifying as “modernists” lobbying against the influence of Islamic extremists and the other identifying as traditionalists who insisted that newly proposed reforms were rooted in Western interference. In particular, the Moroccan minister for religious affairs opposed the plan, and the Moroccan cabinet became divided over the issue. The debate extended beyond the realm of the political elite, however, eventually sparking enormous rallies in March 2000. Different sources cite varying accounts as to how many people attended each rally, with estimates ranging from 60,000 to over 1 million at each - with each side claiming it had more attendees present. Press coverage of the two actions noted the differences between them; the Casablanca march, in opposition to the PAIWD, was generally more gender-segregated, with more uniformity of dress, whereas in Rabat, participants of different genders mixed more freely. These figures, and the differences between the two rallies, illustrate a polarization that exists in Moroccan society through today, and the divisions and controversy associated with it, along with the rise of Islamic movements in Morocco, ultimately prevented the PAIWD's implementation. One point of common ground between both factions was an appeal to the king for arbitration. Traditionalists felt only the king had the right to change the law and the modernists felt that the king had the right to exercise \"ijtihad\" and ultimately decide the role that Islamic law would play in Morocco's legal framework. Moreover, many scholars and activists have pointed out that there was strong support for reform from both sides of the debate; the conflict lay in the source of the reforms and in questions of cultural authenticity.\n\nOn March 5, 2001, a year after the rallies in Casablanca and Rabat, Mohammed VI announced the formation of a commission to reform the Mudawana, members of which included a Supreme Court justice, religious scholars, political representatives, and intellectuals from a number of different backgrounds, including female representatives from women's organizations. At the same time, the king took several steps viewed as promoting women's status in Moroccan society, including mandating that 10 percent of seats in the lower house of the Moroccan parliament be reserved for women and promoting several women to senior administrative positions within his government. On October 10, 2003, the king presented Parliament with a plan to replace the old Mudawana entirely, on the commission's recommendation, describing the new law code as “modern” and intended to “free women from the injustices they endure, in addition [to] protecting children’s rights and safeguarding men’s dignity.” In doing so, he emphasized that the reforms were not intended to address women's rights exclusively, but to address issues associated with the family as a whole.\n\nThe king also cited his role as “Commander of the Faithful,” referring to his role as both political and religious leader of Morocco, and pointed out that as such, “I can neither prohibit what is legal nor sanction that which is illicit.” When announcing the reforms, the king emphasized their compatibility with Islamic principles, quoting supporting passages from the Qur'an and the Hadith. He also indicated that he sought to “reflect the general will of the nation” rather than impose legislation from above, and described the reform as not a victory for one side or the other.\n\nWhereas the original Mudawana and its 1993 reforms were enacted by royal decree, the 2004 reforms were deliberated upon extensively in Parliament, which made over 100 amendments to the code before ratifying it in January 2004.\nAfter the reforms were announced, the United States government, the World Bank, and Human Rights Watch all released statements of support for the new laws. Likewise, the European Union considered Morocco to be the “most advanced country on the southern shore of the Mediterranean” in terms of rule of law and democratization.\n\n\nAccording to a 2010 survey, awareness of the reforms varies widely within the Moroccan population, with younger, urban, and educated women far more likely to have heard of the law and have some familiarity with its provisions than women in rural areas, those with less education, and older women. Of Moroccans who have heard of the new Mudawana, 85% of women and 59% of men support the reforms. Most men who oppose the reforms believe the law negatively impacts them, gives greater weight to their spouses' demands, and view it as contrary to their religious beliefs. Women's dissatisfaction with the Mudawana, however, reflects a belief that it is not implemented widely and successfully enough to address the problems of women's rights. Two-thirds of Moroccan women surveyed said they felt the new Mudawana had improved women's status in Morocco, and 50% of men agreed.\n\nWhen announcing the reforms, Mohammad VI indicated that he sought to “reflect the general will of the nation” rather than impose legislation, and emphasized that the reform did not represent a \"victory\" for one side or the other.\n\nMany groups and individuals (both in Morocco and abroad) reacted favorably to the revised code, pointing out that from an economic perspective, it finally legally recognized women's economic contributions to the household – not an insignificant point, as in 2000, women represented over a third of the Moroccan workforce. Supporters point out that the reforms indicate a democratization of Moroccan society on two fronts: because of the sense of pluralism and debate they sparked in the public sphere, and because of their movement towards an individual-based rights system, as opposed to one based on collective rights.\n\nMany activists and scholars embrace the reforms as evidence that gender equality is compatible with Islamic principles; indeed, some scholars have argued that what they consider to be an authentic interpretation of Shari'a actually requires reforms in the name of gender equality.\n\nOpponents to the law claim that the reforms do in fact represent an imposition of legislation that does not enjoy broad support, pointing out that opinion polls often favor urban populations and are not representative of Moroccan society as a whole. Many Islamic groups have emphasized that they do not oppose reform of the Mudawana in general, but reject what they view as reforms rooted in externally imposed principles, such as those based in international human rights law, as opposed to exclusively Islamic origins.\n\nSome have described the women's rights movement in Morocco as a movement of elites and criticized the new Mudawana on similar grounds. Most women's organizations in Morocco receive external funding, whether from the government, various Moroccan political parties, or international actors such as USAID, the European Development Bank, and the World Bank, which has left them open to criticisms that their agendas are tied to the sources of their funding and therefore compromised. However, some scholars have argued that just because the movement was started among elites, it does not necessarily follow that they are incongruent with grassroots interests. Still others point out that in an even broader sense, the universal notion of formal equality itself may not be evenly applicable or relevant to women from different social, cultural, and national backgrounds.\n\nFurthermore, just as some scholars praise what they see as a confirmation of the compatibility of Islam and gender equality, others point out that by requiring the framing of gender equality within an Islamic framework, the means by which Muslim women can advocate for equality is inherently limited. This process also arguably reduces Islamic women to a single, universal category that does not recognize their individual choices. Critics consequently point out that the Mudawana represents an improvement in women's status but still falls short of establishing their full equal standing with men in either the family or the social sphere. For example, the law still recognizes the father as head of the family and designates him the default legal tutor to his children.\n\nOther critics of the Mudawana point out that irrespective of the value of the reforms themselves, the process by which they were achieved is flawed, creates difficulties for their implementation, and can even be considered counter-productive to the process of democratization. It can be argued that while the reforms do represent a significant transformation of women's rights, they also serve to solidify and expand the authority of the monarch as the defender or insurer of those rights. In the end, the civil society associations that lobbied for the reforms had to work within the existing authoritarian system, appealing directly to the king for change rather than working through a democratic political process. Ultimately, the credit for the reforms' successful enactment has been given to the monarchy. Finally, some characterize the high degree of debate and deliberation over the issue as a dividing influence in the end; a representative from one Moroccan women's organization described the women's movement in Morocco not as a movement, but an uncoordinated group of different organizations.\n\nThere are social, legal, logistical, and political barriers to the actual implementation of many of the reforms in the new Mudawana. The top-down nature of the reforms has resulted in many members of the judicial system simply ignoring the new laws’ provisions. Other problems with the judicial system include a lack of training among the judiciary and provisions of the law that allow individual judges to consult principles of Shari'a in situations that are not covered by the Mudawana. This could open the door to an application of older, pre-reform style judicial decisions.\n\nIn terms of social barriers, there is a significant gap between formal legal reforms in theory and their practice in reality. In Morocco's rural and underdeveloped areas, legal equality is perceived as less of an immediate priority than basic, everyday needs. High levels of female illiteracy and a strong sense of traditionalism in many rural areas further compound these challenges. Despite educational campaigns undertaken by various governmental and non-governmental actors (often supported by donor nations such as EU member states), levels of awareness about the reforms remain low, especially in many rural areas, where misinformation about the details of the changes has often filled the knowledge gap. Many supporters of the reforms believe that lack of awareness of the law is the primary barrier to its implementation, with a lack of legal literacy compounded by the fact that many Moroccans speak a Berber dialect rather than the formal Arabic in which the law is actually written.\n\nFrom a legal standpoint, the Moroccan penal code still does not reflect the principles of gender equality established within the provisions of the Mudawana. For example, a woman still needs her husband's permission to obtain a passport and can be penalized for having a child out of wedlock, and there is no legislation addressing or criminalizing violence against women. Judges also retain the right to oversee mandatory reconciliation in the case of divorce, which many women's organizations fear will be used to limit women's autonomy during divorce proceedings.\n\nLogistically, the new code created a new system of family courts to handle family law matters, presenting the complex challenges of establishing a new, nationwide system from scratch while provoking opposition among \"adouls\", the local legal officials who previously had jurisdiction over marriage and family matters. Some critics have even classified the family court system as a lower or \"second-class\" justice system for women.\n\nIn terms of political barriers, some classify the reformed Mudawana as an example of strategic liberalization, typical within certain \"liberalized autocracies,\" that arises out of internal and external pressures but is ultimately limited in the extent of its reforms. The argument that follows is that the reforms are essentially superficial because it is in the government's interest to favor the maintenance of the status quo over the potential conflict that would arise were the reforms to be implemented on a full scale.\n\nFive years after the new Mudawana laws were passed, the president of the ADFM noted that opposition to its reforms was still present throughout the judicial system. While polygamy had become nearly nonexistent, she noted, one out of every ten marriages still involved a minor as of 2007, and the system was facing organizational challenges. Some reports claim that marriage of underage girls has actually risen since the passing of the reforms, and point out that the actual existence of separate marital property contracts remains low, despite their being newly legalized, meaning that the reforms offer little actual protection to women whose husbands order them to leave the marital home.\n\nHowever, there is some evidence that the reforms are not totally without effect. According to the Moroccan Ministry of Justice, in 2008 there were more marriages and slightly fewer divorces in Morocco. Of the divorces granted, almost 30% were divorce by mutual consent – which did not exist before the 2004 reforms. Moreover, while over 14,000 divorce proceedings were initiated by men, over 26,000 were initiated by women in 2007; before the reforms, women did not have the right to initiate these proceedings. Finally, the number of women arranging their own marriages increased by over 14% between 2006 and 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23523799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23523799", "title": "Older Americans Act", "text": "Older Americans Act\n\nThe Older Americans Act of 1965 (, ) was the first federal level initiative aimed at providing comprehensive services for older adults. It created the National Aging Network comprising the Administration on Aging on the federal level, State Units on Aging, and Area Agencies on Aging at the local level. The network provides funding - based primarily on the percentage of an area's population 60 and older - for nutrition and supportive home and community-based services, disease prevention/health promotion services, elder rights programs, the National Family Caregiver Support Program, and the Native American Caregiver Support Program.\n\nThe Act was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 14, 1965.\n\nIn 2016, Congress reauthorized the Act in its entirety, effective through FY 2019.\n\nThe OAA was passed as a part of Lyndon Johnson's Great Society reforms. It followed closely behind the Civil Rights Act and the Economic Opportunity Act which included many similarly structured programs, based around a centralized network of funding for a decentralized (community level) service delivery system. The OAA was a response to Congressional concerns about the lack of community social services for senior citizens.\n\nFunding for many Great Society programs as well as Johnson’s political capital, dwindled during the Vietnam War. Some programs and agencies were dismantled by later administrations, such as Nixon’s and Ford’s slow dissolution of the Office of Economic Opportunity. Other programs, such as those under the OAA, Medicare, Medicaid, and initiatives in the arts and humanities continue to survive.\n\nThe stated purpose of the OAA is to ensure equal opportunity to the fair and free enjoyment of: adequate income in retirement; the best possible physical and mental health services without regard to economic status; suitable housing; restorative and long term care; opportunity for employment; retirement in health, honor, and dignity; civic, cultural, educational and recreational participation and contribution; efficient community services; immediate benefit from proven research knowledge; freedom, independence, and the exercise of self-determination; and protection against abuse neglect and exploitation.\n\nRepresentative John E. Fogarty (D-RI) introduced legislation on January 27, 1965 as H.R. 3708. The bill moved through the House and was referred to the House Committee on Education and Labor in March 1965. It passed the House on March 31 on a 395 to 1 roll call vote. The bill established an Administration on Aging (AoA) within the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW). \n\nIn the Senate, H.R.3708 was introduced Lister Hill (D-AL). On June 16, the Senate passed H.R. 3708 by a roll call vote of 72 to 5. On July 6, 1965, the House agreed to the Senate’s version of H.R. 3708.\n\nThe act is divided into seven titles.\n\nNo one over age 60 can be denied services from OAA programs, except on the discretion of the state's State Unit on Aging which may impose more restrictive criteria. In FY 2008 these initiatives provided services to nearly 3 million people, and for FY 2011 the federal appropriation for all programs is $1.9 billion. A disproportionate amount of seniors receiving services (27%) are below the poverty line (compared to 9.7% of the general population over age 60). Recipients of services under OAA are more likely to be female (71% vs. 57% of persons over 60). African Americans are over represented among OAA recipients and all other minorities are under represented. Recipients are also almost twice as likely to be rural, more likely to live alone, and on average have less income, less education, and are less healthy than those persons in the general population aged 60 and over.\n\n\nChronological amendments and revisions to the Older Americans Act of 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "12968218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12968218", "title": "Product lifetime", "text": "Product lifetime\n\nProduct lifetime or product lifespan is the time interval from when a product is sold to when it is discarded. It is slightly different from service life because the latter consider only the effective time the product is used.\n\nProduct lifetime represent an important area of enquiry with regards to product design, the circular economy and sustainable development. This is because products, with the materials involved in their design, production, distribution, use and disposal (across their life cycle), embody carbon due to the energy involved in these processes. Therefore, if product lifetimes can be extended, the use of energy, embodied in carbon, can be reduced and progress can be made towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions: Bocken et al. term this \"Slowing resource loops\" (309, \"their emphasis\"). In addition, excessive waste generation has been attributed to short-lived goods and a throwaway society.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a growth in academic and policy discussions around product lifetimes. For example, discussion of product lifetimes are an integral part of the European Commission's action plan for the circular economy\".\" In academia, the PLATE (Product Lifetimes and the Environment) Consortium hosts regular conferences and seminars around the topic of product lifetimes and the environment (see: http://www.plateconference.org/).\n\nThis article examines how product lifetimes are defined in the academic literature and discusses how product lifetimes can be measured. A distinction is made between the definition and measurement of \"actual\" and \"expected\" product lifetimes.\n\nDefinitions of product lifetimes vary depending on what aspects those conducting research are interested in. Generally, actual product lifetimes refer to the actual time that a product exists in a particular state. In contrast, expected product lifetimes refer to users' expectations for the lifetime of a product. Additionally, actual and expected product lifetimes are influenced by durability and longevity; these concepts are briefly outlined below.\n\nDurability is described by Cooper as \"the ability of a product to perform its required function over a lengthy period under normal use conditions of use without excessive expenditure on maintenance or repair\" (p. 5). In contrast, longevity encompasses more than just the material properties of the product. Cooper notes that user behaviour, and broader social and cultural trends play important roles in the product's longevity. The paragraphs below outline the definitions of actual and expected product lifetimes.\n\nExhaustive work has been undertaken by Murakami et al. and Oguchi et al. and to outline several definitions and discuss methods for identifying actual product lifetimes. Murkami et al. identify the following overarching concepts in product lifetime definitions which are discussed below: Age, Residential time, Service life, Possession span and Duration of use.\n\nA product's age is the time from when the product was created to either the present or \"the time of interest\" (: 600) for the researchers.\n\nResidential time is considered to be time in which a product, its constituent materials and parts, exists in society. Residential time includes the time in which a product may be broken and/ or discarded.\n\nAccording to Murkami et al., the service life of a product refers to the duration of time for which products continue to work and can be used.\n\nThe possession span is the period of time that a user has possession of the product.\n\nThe duration of use indicates how long a user uses the product for. Murkami et al. distinguish duration of use from Service life by noting that duration of use is measured for a specific user, whereas Service life describes the total in-service use of the product for all its users (accounting for transfers of ownership e.g. reuse). Additionally, possession span is distinguished from duration of use, as possession span includes \"dead storage\" (: 601) time, where a product is owned by a user but not in use (i.e. in storage).\n\nA conference paper by Oguchi et al. sought to identify and test differences in definitions of product lifetime expectations. Oguchi et al. illustrated that previous research into expected product lifetimes has been inconsistent in its use of the term expected product lifetimes. For example, Cooper enquires about \"reasonable\" expected lifetimes, while Brook Lyndhurst discusses \"normal\" expected lifetimes. Wieser et al. identified the tension between everyday expectations and desires, distinguishing between these expectations in his study of 21 products. In addition, earlier work by Tasaki et al. and more recent work by WRAP have asked users to report both how long they have owned an item for, and how long they expect to use the item for in future: WRAP term this \"active use\". Building on these previous studies (\"described above\"), Oguchi et al. identified and tested three distinct definitions of expected product lifetimes, these are outlined below.\n\nOguchi et al. define the intended lifetime as the length of time for which a user intends to use the product in question.\n\nThe ideal length of time for which a user expects their product to last. Oguchi et al. describe this as \"the highest preference of consumers\".\n\nThe realist prediction by the user of how long a product will last. The user is thought to make this prediction based on their previous experiences and \"other relevant factors\" (Oguhci et al.).\n\nAcademic enquiry into the product lifetimes of electrical and electronic equipment was undertaken in 2000 by Cooper and Mayers who conducted household interviews and focus groups to establish the age at discard (actual product lifetime) and expected lifetimes for 17 products. Since this study, work has been undertaken by other academics into measuring actual and expected product lifetimes; the methods employed are outlined below.\n\nActual product lifetimes can be measured using a variety of methods which include: product testing, discard surveys, user interviews and modelling. These are discussed below.\n\nProducts can be tested under laboratory conditions to assess their lifetime under different conditions of use.\n\nOguchi et al. identify that surveys of waste treatment and recycling facilities can provide information on the age of the appliance at break or discard. Identifying information such as the product serial and/ or batch number can be used to find out a date of manufacturer from which the age of the appliance at break or discard can be calculated.\n\nCooper and Mayers conducted household interviews to establish the age of 17 electrical and electronic items at discard and break. However it has been noted that user interviews are subject to the accuracy of memory, and that reviews of products which have failed in the past only provides information on \"a historical situation\" (: p. 10), not taking into account the features and lifetime of extant products.\n\nProduct lifetimes can be modelled using extant data from surveys with the application of probability and other statistical concepts (e.g. distributions). One of the earliest attempts to estimate product lifetimes was undertaken by Pennock and Jaeger who utilised actuarial methods to measure the Service life of household goods for one owner. In the 1990s, Bayus modelled car replacement rates and Bayus and Gupta evaluated the user decision making process and factors around replacement car purchases. In 2010, Oguchi et al. proposed modelling product lifetimes factoring the total number of products shipped and discarded in a year. Oguchi et al. outlined a series of equations which represent lifespan distributions for a given product at a particular point in time.\n\nExpected product lifetimes are measured at the individual level using survey methods and collectively using focus groups. With the exception of Oguchi et al. and Wieser et al., many studies into expected product lifetimes have not distinguished between the different definitions (outlined above). The methods for measuring expected product lifetimes are outlined below.\n\nSurvey methods into expected product lifetimes encompass online questionnaires, household and telephone interviews. These studies asked individual participants to report their expectations for product lifetimes in units of time. Survey methods (such as Oguchi et al.) can also use Likert items to evaluate if current products meet users expectations with regards to durability and longevity.\n\nFocus groups can be convened where participants take part in discussions to reach a group consensus on product lifetime expectations.\n"}
{"id": "13355775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13355775", "title": "Rwandatel", "text": "Rwandatel\n\nRwandatel was a telephony company with its headquarters in Kigali, Rwanda.\n\nRwandatel was founded in 1993 as a government parastatal to provide telephone and internet services, including local telephony and long distance service.\n\nIn 2006, American born Greg Wyler, took 99% control of Rwandatel through his communication firm Terracom.\n\nDue to financial constraints, the government of Rwanda held negotiations with Terracom's investors in June 2007 in order to establish the value of the company and organize a buy back of Rwandatel by the government. The agreed total purchase price was US$11.91 million, with the government acquiring 70%, while Caisse Sociale du Rwanda (now Rwanda Social Security Board) acquiring 30% of the venture.\n\nIn September 2007, Libyan based investment firm, LAP (Libyan Investment Portfolio) Green, acquired 80% of Rwandatel for US$100 million and agreed to invest another $177 million over the following 5 years as well as agree to meet wireless voice and data roll-out goals. LAP Green's other investments included its 69% control of Uganda Telecom.\n\nDue to the Libyan conflict of 2011, the government of Rwanda complied with United Nations resolutions requiring Libyan assets in the country to be frozen. This led to financial constraints on Rwandatel as it depended of financing from LAP Green. This led to Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA) revoking the firm's license to provide mobile and 3G services on April 4, 2011. At this point the company was facing stiff competition from MTN Rwanda and Tigo Rwanda.\n\nIn 2013, the assets of the insolvent Rwandatel were acquired by Econet Wireless through its subsidiary Liquid Telecom for US$4 million, a fraction of the LAP Green deal.\n\nAs of the liquidation date, Rwandatel's shareholding structure was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "960532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960532", "title": "Share-alike", "text": "Share-alike\n\nShare-alike is a copyright licensing term, originally used by the Creative Commons project, to describe works or licences that require copies or adaptations of the work to be released under the same or similar licence as the original. Copyleft licences are free content or free software licences with a share-alike condition.\n\nTwo currently-supported Creative Commons licences have the ShareAlike condition: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (a copyleft, free content licence) and Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike (a proprietary licence).\n\nThe term has also been used outside copyright law to refer to a similar plan for patent licensing.\n\nCopyleft or libre share-alike licences are the largest subcategory of share-alike licences. They include both free content licences like Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike and free software licences like the GNU General Public License. These licences have been described pejoratively as viral licences, because the inclusion of copyleft material in a larger work typically requires the entire work to be made copyleft. The term reciprocal license has also been used to describe copyleft, but has also been used for non-libre licenses (see, for example, the Microsoft Limited Reciprocal License).\n\nFree content and software licences without the share-alike requirement are described as permissive licences.\n\nAs with all six licences in the current Creative Commons suite, CC Attribution-ShareAlike and CC Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike require attribution. According to Creative Commons, the advantage of this license is that future users are not able to add new restrictions to a derivative of your work; their derivatives must be licensed the same way.\n\nThe 3.0 and 4.0 version of the ShareAlike licenses include a compatibility clause, allowing Creative Commons to declare other licenses as compatible and therefore derivatives may use these instead of the license of the original work.\n\nOver the years, Creative Commons has issued 5 versions of the BY-SA and BY-NC-SA licenses (1.0, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0 and 4.0).\n\n\nIn June 2009 the Wikipedia community and Wikimedia Foundation board approved the adoption of the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC BY-SA) license as the main content license for Wikipedia and other Wikimedia sites. Creative Commons hailed this decision as a victory for free culture as well as visionary leadership.\n"}
{"id": "58833260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58833260", "title": "Silver (graphic novel series)", "text": "Silver (graphic novel series)\n\nSilver is a graphic novel series by American writer and artist Stephan Franck. It follows the adventures of James Finnigan, a Pulp era conman who teams up with Rosalynd \"Sledge\" Van Helsing to steel a mythical treasure hidden in Dracula's castle. The first book in the series was nominated for the 2014 Russ Manning Award. The four books in the series were released from 2014 to 2018.\n\nThe plot of \"Silver\" spans 4 volumes. It is told through the point of view of James Finnigan, whose narration guides the reader through the story.\n\nSilver Volume 1: \"Silver\" begins in 1931 in New York city. We meet James Finnigan, who is an ethically challenged master-thief, and his partners in crime Mullins and Brantley, as they rob the mysterious Harker foundation. What was supposed to be their last job turns into a narrow escape from the FBI, and Finnigan loses the team’s retirement money. However, Finnigan discovers a mysterious ancient silver bar, and the late Jonathan Harker's secret ledger, which discloses the existence of a fabulous treasure made of silver, hidden away in Dracula's castle. Aware that he might be in over his head, Finnigan seeks the help of Rosalynd “Sledge” Van Helsing, grand-daughter of Abram Van Helsing, and Tao, a ten year old boy with the gift of second sight.\n\nSilver Volume 2: The team boards the Orient Express, which is filled with Vampires on their way to Dracula’s castle. Romantic tension builds between Finnigan and Sledge, but she may have an ulterior motive for being on the team. It also becomes clear that Tao needs a role-model in Finnigan...something that the con man is not able to provide. Nonetheless, while constantly on the verge of disaster, the team succeeds in putting the heist in motion. As the team reaches the castle, and we discover a powerful, but broken Dracula, AKA Drah-Khan, who never recovered from the loss of Mina Harker. We also meet Lillian Duvalier, a cruel and ambitious vampire princess whose own agenda adds even more volatility to the situation.\n\nSilver Volume 3: The long con progresses, but Tao is shaken by a close brush with death, and Finnigan grows concerned that the kid might be shakier than he thought. Meanwhile, Sledge is having increasing difficulty containing her hatred for the undead. When Lillian goes out with a small party to raid a local village, Sledge goes rogue and launches after them. Out of options, Finnigan follows. Sledge manages to dispatches several vampires, including Lillian’s personal maids, but fails to save a couple of babies kidnapped by Lillian. Finn confronts Sledge but can’t seem to get through to her. Hoping to rescue the babies, Sledge carries on a desperate attempt on Drah-Khan life. The entire plan collapses. As the captured team awaits its fate, it is revealed that Lillian has succeeded in moving Drah-Khan past Mina and any hope for redemption her memory might represent. Drah-Khan and Lillian will marry when the clock strikes midnight, and sanctify their union by drinking the blood of the kidnapped babies.\n\nSilver Volume 4: In triumphant long-con fashion, we learn that the failure of the original plan and collapse of the team were fake-outs, all scripted and part of the actual plan. Using every single element of lore established earlier in the story against him, the team robs Drah-Khan of his treasure, while also saving the babies, and interrupting the wedding. As Drah-Khan's entire world falls apart, the team escapes on the train treasure on board, but Lilith shows up for a final confrontation with Sledge, and we discover that Tao was gravely wounded in the escape. Meanwhile, Drah-Khan figures out how the team escaped, and catches up to them to settled things once and for all.\n\nThe series takes place in a world inspired by Bram Stoker's novel \"Dracula\", 40 years after the events of the novel. The story starts in a 1930's pulp-era New York City, and moves across Europe until it reaches Transylvania. Combining various elements of 1930's literature, adventure strips and cinema, the series can be described as an adventure story with supernatural elements, and as taking place in a meta pulp world.\n\nThe series deals with existential themes, such as \"what does it mean to really feel alive?\" It is examined through the point of view of vampires: \"The are the dead masquerading as the living. Returning from the grave only to find a dark empty hole where their soul used to be. Incapable of love, friendship, or shedding a tear, they forever feel compelled to hoard some sort of treasure to which they become obsessively attached. It's always shiny, preferably Silver.\"\n\nDuring New York Comic Con 2017, Deadline Hollywood reported that writer Andrew Cosby was attached to pen a movie adaptation.\n\nThe series' reception has been generally positive. In its review of the 2018 Free Comic Book Day titles, \"NPR\"'s Glen Weldon wrote \"“Writer/artist Stephan Franck is firing on all cylinders... Stylish black-and-white art, and a smart, charmingly roguish point-of-view-character draw you in.”\", and comic book reviews site \"Newsarama\" giving the first volume 10 stars out of 10.\n"}
{"id": "712542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712542", "title": "Spyridon Louis", "text": "Spyridon Louis\n\nSpyridon Louis ( , sometimes transliterated \"Spiridon Loues\"; 12 January 1873 – 26 March 1940), commonly Spyros Louis (Σπύρος Λούης), was a Greek water-carrier who won the first modern-day Olympic marathon at the 1896 Summer Olympics. Following his victory, he was celebrated as a national hero. \n\nA former soldier, Louis was encouraged to try out for the Olympics by his former commanding officer. After progressing through qualifying, he went on to win the inaugural Olympic marathon after placing first from seventeen competitors. Louis later became a police officer and a farmer. Outside of his athletics career, Louis was arrested for forgery, of which he was acquitted after spending a year in jail.\n\nSpyridon Louis was born in the town of Marousi, north of Athens, into a poor family. Louis's father sold mineral water in Athens, which at the time lacked a central water supply, and his son helped him by transporting it.\n\nAfter Pierre de Coubertin's decision in 1894 to revive the Olympic Games, preparations were made to organise the first modern Olympics in Athens. One of the races would be the marathon, an event which had never been held before. It had been suggested by Frenchman Michel Bréal, who was inspired by the legend of the messenger Pheidippides, who had run from Marathon to Athens to announce the Athenian victory in the Battle of Marathon—and then dropped dead.\n\nThe Greeks were very enthusiastic about this new event and decided to hold qualifiers for the marathon. These races were started by Colonel Papadiamantopoulos, who Louis previously served under in the military. The first qualifying race—the first ever marathon race—was held on 22 March, and was won by Charilaos Vasilakos in 3 hours, 18 minutes. Louis participated in the second qualifying race, two weeks later, and placed fifth. Papadiamantopoulos, who knew of Louis's talent in running, had convinced him to try out.\n\nThe Olympic marathon was run on 10 April (or 29 March by the Julian calendar then in use in Greece). The Greek public had been very enthusiastic about the Games, but were disappointed in the fact that no track and field event had yet been won by a Greek competitor. The victory in the discus throw, a classical Greek event, by the American Robert Garrett had been particularly painful. Because of its close connection with Greek history, the public yearned for the marathon to be won by one of their countrymen.\n\nIn Marathon, Colonel Papadiamantopoulos gave the starting signal for the small field, consisting of seventeen athletes, thirteen of them representing Greece. The early leader of the race, which led over dusty dirt roads along which throngs of Greeks had gathered to watch, was the Frenchman Albin Lermusiaux, who had placed third in the 1500 metres prior to the marathon. In the town of Pikermi, Louis is said to have made a stop at a local inn to drink a glass of wine. (Louis's grandson, also Spyridon Louis, has stated that this is incorrect; that his grandfather's girlfriend gave him half an orange and shortly afterwards he \"got a glass of cognac from his future father-in-law.\") After asking for the advantage of the other runners, he confidently declared he would overtake them all before the end.\n\nAfter 26 km, Lermusiaux was exhausted and abandoned the race. The lead was taken over by Edwin Flack, an Australian who won the 800 and 1500 m races. Louis slowly closed in on Flack. The Australian, not used to running long distances, collapsed a few kilometers onwards, giving Louis the lead.\n\nDuring the race, there was tension among the Greek spectators when Flack was in first place. However, when news was delivered to the fans that Louis overtook the lead, the cry \"Hellene, Hellene!\" was taken up by rapturous spectators. Louis was greeted with cheers after entering the Panathenaic Stadium for the final part of the marathon. Louis ran with Crown Prince Constantine and Prince George of Greece during the last lap, finishing with a time of 2:58:50. Louis's victory set off wild celebrations, as described in the official report of the Games:\n\nHere the Olympionic Victor was received with full honour; the King rose from his seat and congratulated him most warmly on his success. Some of the King’s aides-de-camp, and several members of the Committee went so far as to kiss and embrace the victor, who finally was carried in triumph to the retiring room under the vaulted entrance. The scene witnessed then inside the Stadion cannot be easily described, even strangers were carried away by the general enthusiasm.\n\nAdding to the celebrations, two more Greek runners entered the stadium to finish in second and third place. Third place finisher Spyridon Belokas was later found to have covered part of the course by carriage and was disqualified; third place was awarded to the Hungarian Gyula Kellner.\n\nAfter his victory, Louis received gifts from many countrymen, ranging from jewellery to a lifelong free shave at a barber shop. It is unknown whether Louis accepted all these gifts, although he did take back home the carriage he had asked of the king. After the Olympics, Louis ended his athletic career to become a farmer and a police officer.\n\nIn 1926, Louis was arrested on charges of falsifying military documents and was imprisoned. After spending more than a year in jail, he was acquitted.\n\nHis last public appearance came in 1936, when he was invited to be a guest of honour by the organizers of the 1936 Summer Olympics, held in Berlin. After bearing the standard of the Greek team during the opening ceremonies, he was received by Adolf Hitler and offered him an olive branch from Olympia, the birthplace of the Olympic Games, as a symbol of peace. Louis recalled the moments after his victory: \"That hour was something unimaginable and it still appears to me in my memory like a dream … Twigs and flowers were raining down on me. Everybody was calling out my name and throwing their hats in the air ...\"\n\nSeveral months before the Italian invasion of Greece, Louis died. In Greece, various sports establishments are named after Louis. These include the Olympic Stadium of Athens where the 2004 Summer Olympics were held, as well as the road outside the stadium.\n\nThe Jayne Mansfield movie \"It Happened in Athens\" is a heavily fictionalized take on Louis and the marathon, and his story is featured in the 1984 TV miniseries \"\". The expression in Greek: \"yinomai Louis\" (γίνομαι Λούης), translated as \"to becοme Louis,\" means \"tο disappear by running fast.\"\n\nThe silver cup given to Louis at the first modern Olympic Games staged in Athens in 1896, was sold for £541,250 ($860,000) in London during a Christie's auction on 18 April 2012. The trophy, with a height of six inches, broke the auction record for Olympic memorabilia. The item was sold on the day Britain marked the 100 days' countdown to the 2012 London Olympics. Christie's called the auction \"heated\" and involved six bidders. The auctioneer later confirmed the buyer as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation.\n\nThe cup is currently displayed at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center, a project of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, fulfilling the commitment of the foundation to make it available to the public and to share it with everyone, upon the project's completion. During the development of the project, the cup was temporarily displayed at the Acropolis Museum of Athens and the Olympic Museum in Lausanne, during a period that coincided with the International Marathon of Lausanne.\n\n"}
{"id": "38344835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38344835", "title": "Stanley v. Illinois", "text": "Stanley v. Illinois\n\nStanley v. Illinois, 405 U.S. 645 (1972), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the fathers of children born out of wedlock had a fundamental right to their children. Until the ruling, when the mother of a child born out of wedlock was unable to care for the child, through death or other circumstances, the child was made a ward of the state and either placed in an orphanage or foster care or given up for adoption.\n\nJoan and Peter Stanley had lived together off and on for 18 years; they had three children together. When Joan Stanley died, the state held a dependency proceeding, declared the three minor children to be wards of the state, and placed them with court appointed guardians. Peter Stanley appealed the decision, as the state had never provided him a hearing to determine whether he was a fit parent, which would have occurred for a married father under similar circumstances. Mr. Stanley claimed that to violate his Fourteenth Amendment right of equal protection.\n\nThe case made it to the Illinois Supreme Court, which ruled that while there had been no determination of his fitness as a parent, the state was nonetheless justified in depriving him of parental rights based on the sole fact that he had not been married to the mother. Whether or not Mr. Stanley was a fit parent was irrelevant. In filings with the US Supreme Court, the State of Illinois argued that all unwed fathers are unfit parents, making it unnecessary to provide each unwed father a hearing.\n\nThe US Supreme Court found in favor of Mr. Stanley by arguing that as a matter of due process, unwed fathers are guaranteed the same rights as married or divorced fathers. The state assumes custody of children involving other categories of parents only after a hearing is held to determine their parental fitness, and it requires proof of negligence to deem them unable to provide primary care. Thus, the same process must be applied for children born to parents outside of wedlock. \n\nIn a dissenting opinion, Chief Justice Burger and Justice Blackmun held that states had the right to draw an arbitrary distinction between and wed unwed fathers to protect the welfare of the child. They argued that Mr. Stanley had 18 years to assume the burden.\n\nThey also argued, \"I believe that a State is fully justified in concluding, on the basis of common human experience, that the biological role of the mother in carrying and nursing an infant creates stronger bonds between her and the child than the bonds resulting from the male's often casual encounter.\"\n\nHe essentially argued in favor of the tender years doctrine, which had already begun being eliminated from state statutes that determined custody after divorce.\n\nThe case was an important step for the rights of fathers and children. Until then, most states held a similar position to Illinois: unwed fathers were \"de facto\" unfit to care for their children, and their children should instead be made wards of the state.\n\nPerhaps the most important implication of the case was for custody law regarding divorce, as most states had held to the tender years doctrine, which held that mothers were better suited biologically as primary caregivers than were fathers. The few states who had yet to change the laws were in effect put on notice that if the Supreme Court was supporting equal protection for unwed fathers, it would do so for divorcing fathers as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "35257558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35257558", "title": "Stop-and-frisk in New York City", "text": "Stop-and-frisk in New York City\n\nThe stop-question-and-frisk program, or stop-and-frisk, in New York City, is a New York City Police Department practice of temporarily detaining, questioning, and at times searching civilians on the street for weapons and other contraband. This is what is known in other places in the United States as the \"Terry\" stop. The rules for stop, question, and frisk are found in the state's criminal procedure law section 140.50, and are based on the decision of the US Supreme Court in the case of \"Terry v. Ohio\".\n\n12,404 stops were made in 2016. The stop-and-frisk program has previously taken place on a much wider scale. Between 2003 and 2013, over 100,000 stops were made per year, with 685,724 people being stopped at the height of the program in 2011. The program became the subject of a racial profiling controversy. The vast majority, 90% in 2017, of those stopped were African-American or Latino, most of whom were aged 14–24. Furthermore, 70% of all those stopped were later found to be innocent. The racial disparity persists even after controlling for precinct variability and race-specific estimates of crime participation. Research suggests that stop-and-frisk had few effects, if any, on violent and property crime rates in New York City.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court made an important ruling on the use of stop-and-frisk in the 1968 case \"Terry v. Ohio\", hence why the stops are also referred to as \"Terry\" stops. While frisks were arguably illegal, until then, a police officer could search only someone who had been arrested, unless a search warrant had been obtained. In the cases of \"Terry v. Ohio\", \"Sibron v. New York\", and \"Peters v. New York\", the Supreme Court granted limited approval in 1968 to frisks conducted by officers lacking probable cause for an arrest in order to search for weapons if the officer believes the subject to be dangerous. The Court's decision made suspicion of danger to an officer grounds for a \"reasonable search.\"\n\nIn the early 1980s, if a police officer had reasonable suspicion of a possible crime, he or she had the authority to stop someone and ask questions. If, based on the subject's answers, the suspicion level did not escalate to probable cause for an arrest, the person would be released immediately. That was only a \"stop-and-question\". The \"frisk\" part of the equation did not come into play except on two cases: if possession of a weapon was suspected, or reasonable suspicion of a possible crime escalated to probable cause to arrest for an actual crime based on facts developed after the initial stop-and-question. That all changed in the 1990s, when CompStat was developed under then-Police Commissioner William Bratton. High-ranking police officials widely incorporated the \"stop, question and frisk\".\n\nUse of stop-and-frisk is often associated with \"broken windows\" policing. The \"broken windows theory\" is the theory that low-level crime and disorder creates an environment which encourages more serious crimes. Among the key proponents of the theory are George L. Kelling and William Bratton, who was Chief of the New York City Transit Police from 1990 to 1992 and Commissioner of the New York City Police Department from 1994 to 1996. Mayor Rudy Giuliani hired Bratton for the latter job and endorsed broken windows policing. Giuliani and Bratton presided over an expansion of the New York police department and a crackdown on low-level crimes, including fare evasion, public drinking, public urination, graffiti artists, and \"squeegee men\" (who had been wiping windshields of stopped cars and aggressively demanding payment).\n\nBratton and Kelling argue that stop-and-frisk has been wrongly conflated with broken windows policing. They argue that stop-and-frisk is a short-term tactic for preventing a potential crime, whereas broken windows policing is a long-term tactic that requires the police to engage with communities.\n\nIn 2002, there were 97,296 \"stop and frisk\" stops made by New York police officers; 82.4% resulted in no fines or convictions. The number of stops increased dramatically in 2008 to over half a million, 88% of which did not result in any fine or conviction, peaking in 2011 to 685,724 stops, again with 88% resulting in no conviction. On average, from 2002 to 2013, the number of individuals stopped without any convictions was 87.6%.\n\nPart of the stop-question-and-frisk program is executed under Operation Clean Halls, a program in which private property owners grant officers prior permission to enter a property for enforcement against criminal activity.\n\nSome NYPD officers have objected publicly to the department's use of stop-question-and-frisk paperwork as a performance metric, which they claim encourages officers to overuse the practice and creates public hostility. Activists have accused the NYPD of encouraging stops through quotas, which department representatives have denied. In the vast majority of cases, no evidence of wrongdoing is found, and the stopped person is let go.\n\nNew York police officer Adrian Schoolcraft made extensive recordings in 2008 and 2009, which documented orders from NYPD officials to search and arrest black people in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood. Schoolcraft, who brought accusations of misconduct to NYPD investigators, was transferred to a desk job and then involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital. In 2010, Schoolcraft sent his tapes to the \"Village Voice\", which publicized them in a series of reports. Schoolcraft alleges that the NYPD has retaliated against him for exposing information about the stop and frisk policy. The New York Civil Liberties Union (NYCLU), LatinoJustice PRLDEF, and The Bronx Defenders filed a federal class action against this program.\n\nIn response to allegations that the program unfairly targets African-American and Hispanic-American individuals, then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg has stated that it is because African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans are more likely to be violent criminals and victims of violent crime.\n\nOn June 17, 2012, several thousand people marched silently down Manhattan's Fifth Avenue from lower Harlem to Bloomberg's Upper East Side townhouse in protest of the stop-question-and-frisk policy. The mayor refused to end the program, contending that the program reduces crime and saves lives.\n\nIn early July 2012, stop-question-and-frisk protesters who videotaped police stops in New York City were targeted by police for their activism. A \"wanted\"-style poster hung in a police precinct headquarters, without any allegation of criminal activity, accused one couple of being \"professional agitators\" whose \"purpose is to portray officers in a negative way and too deter officers from conducting their responsibilities.\" Police officers later surveilled and recorded the exit of persons from a \"stop stop-and-frisk\" meeting held at the couple's residence, allegedly in response to an emergency call of loitering and trespass.\n\nIn October 2012, \"The Nation\" published an obscenity-filled audio recording that revealed two NYPD officers conducting a hostile and racially charged stop-and-frisk of an innocent teenager from Harlem. Following its upload, the recording soon turned viral, as it triggered outrage and \"shed unprecedented light\" on the practice of stop-and-frisk.\n\nIn \"Floyd v. City of New York\", decided on August 12, 2013, US District Court Judge Shira Scheindlin ruled that stop and frisk had been used in an unconstitutional manner and directed the police to adopt a written policy to specify where such stops are authorized. Scheindlin appointed Peter L. Zimroth, a former chief lawyer for the City of New York, to oversee the program. Mayor Bloomberg indicated that the city will appeal the ruling. Scheindlin had denied pleas for a stay in her overthrow of the policing policy, saying that \"Ordering a stay now would send precisely the wrong signal. It would essentially confirm that the past practices... were justified and based on constitutional police practices. It would also send the message that reducing the number of stops is somehow dangerous to the residents of this city.\"\n\nOn October 31, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit blocked the order requiring changes to the New York Police Department's stop-and-frisk program and removed Judge Shira Scheindlin from the case. On November 9, 2013, the city asked a federal appeals court to vacate Scheindlin's orders. On November 22, 2013, the federal appellate court rejected the city's motion for a stay of the judge's orders.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, Southern District Court Judge Analisa Torres denied the police unions' motions to intervene and granted the proposed modification of the District Court's August 2013 remedial decision.<ref name=\"CCRJustive.org/files\"></ref> A week later, the City of New York filed a motion to withdraw its appeal. On August 13, 2014, the Second Circuit announced the cases will be argued on October 15, 2014. On October 31, a three-judge panel on the Second Circuit unanimously ruled against the unions and allowed the city to proceed with its overhaul of the police department.\n\nA record 685,724 stops were made under the program in 2011; however, the number of stops made has been reduced in every year since then. A major turning point was the 2013 court case \"Floyd v. City of New York\" and a subsequent NYPD mandate that requires officers to thoroughly justify the reason for making a stop. In 2013, 191,558 stops were made.\n\nStop-and-frisk was an issue in the 2013 mayoral election. The race to succeed Bloomberg was won by Democratic Party candidate Bill de Blasio, who had pledged to reform the stop-and-frisk program, called for new leadership at the NYPD, an inspector general, and a strong racial profiling bill.\n\nThe number of stops continued to decrease over the next two years. In August 2014, \"Newsweek\" reported while stop-and-frisk numbers were down, they still happen disproportionately in New York City's African-American and Latino neighborhoods. In 2015, only 22,929 stops were made.\n\nOpponents of the program have complained that it is racist and failed to reduce robbery, burglary, or other crime. \n\nManhattan Borough President Scott Stringer has argued that the program constitutes harassment of blacks and Latinos because it is disproportionately directed at them.\n\nThe NYC Bar Association casts doubt on whether police were applying the \"reasonable suspicion\" rule when making stops: \"The sheer volume of stops that result in no determination of wrongdoing raise the question of whether police officers are consistently adhering to the constitutional requirement for reasonable suspicion for stops and frisks.\"\n\nIn a January 2018 op-ed in the \"National Review\", conservative writer Kyle Smith said that the steep decline in New York City's crime rate since the reduction in the use of stop-and-frisk had shown him that he was wrong about stop-and-frisk; Smith had earlier argued that reducing stop-and-frisk would increase the crime rate.\n\nPaul J. Browne, an NYPD spokesman, defended the practice, saying \"stops save lives, especially in communities disproportionately affected by crime, and especially among young men of color who last year represented 90 percent of murder victims and 96 percent of shooting victims in New York City.\"\n\nThen-mayor Michael Bloomberg defended the aspect of stopping young black and Hispanic men at rates that \"do not reflect the city’s overall census numbers\", saying that \"that the proportion of stops generally reflects our crime numbers does not mean, as the judge wrongly concluded, that the police are engaged in racial profiling; it means they are stopping people in those communities who fit descriptions of suspects or are engaged in suspicious activity.\"\n\nHeather MacDonald denied that blacks are being stopped too often and claimed the opposite: \"The actual crime rates reveal that blacks are being significantly understopped, compared with their representation in the city’s criminal population.\" NYC Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly wrote, \"the statistics reinforce what crime numbers have shown for decades: that blacks in this city were disproportionately the victims of violent crime, followed by Hispanics. Their assailants were disproportionally black and Hispanic too.\"\n\nStop-and-frisk became an issue in the 2016 presidential election, with Donald Trump attributing a nonexistent increase in murders in New York to the reduction of stop-and-frisk.\n\nBratton and Kelling both argue that stop-and-frisk is a useful tool that must be used in moderation. In a joint article in late 2014, they wrote that a \"Terry\" stop is \"one of the key means to detect and prevent crimes in progress\" and \"an important tool in street policing\", while also supporting efforts to reduce its use. Bratton agreed it was causing tension with ethnic communities and that it was less needed in an era of lower crime.\n\nA 2012 study finds few effects of stop-and-frisk on robbery and burglary rates in New York between 2003 and 2010. According to the \"Washington Post\" fact-checker, the claim that stop-and-frisk contributed to a decline in the crime rate is unsubstantiated.\n\nA 2016 study found no evidence that stop-and-frisk was effective. One of the authors of that study, Jeffrey Fagan of Columbia University, said that \"you can achieve really very positive crime control, reductions in crime, if you do stops using those probable-cause standards. If you just leave it up to the officers, based on their hunches, then they have almost no effect on crime.\" Fagan \"found stops based on probable cause standards of criminal behavior were associated with a 5–9 percent decline in NYC crime in census block groups.\"\n\nAnother 2016 study found that stop-and-frisk lowered crime, and that the size of the effect was \"significant yet modest\". The authors also noted that \"the level of SQFs needed to produce meaningful crime reductions are costly in terms of police time and are potentially harmful to police legitimacy.\" A 2017 study also reported that stop-and-frisk was associated with modest crime reductions, and cautioned against drawing strong causal conclusions.\n\nA 2017 study in the \"Journal of Politics\" found that the introduction of a mandate in 2013 that officers provide thorough justifications for stopping suspects led to far fewer stops, far fewer detainments of innocent people and increased the ratio of stops that ultimately produced evidence of the crime that the police stopped the suspect for.\n\nOne study, controlling for relevant factors, finds \"that properties exposed to more intense Stop & Frisk activity sold for significantly lower price.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43697494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43697494", "title": "Taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nTaxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina includes both federal and local taxes. Tax revenue in Bosnia and Herzegovina stood at 28.6% of GDP in 2013. Most important revenue sources include the income tax, Social Security contributions, corporate tax, and the value added tax, which are all applied on the federal level.\n\nIncome tax is applied on a flat tax rate of 10% on income from both employment, interest, royalties, and capital gains. Social Security apply to most employment income. The employee pay 33% of gross salary, while the employer contribute 10.5% in addition. The Value-added tax in Bosnia is 17% as standard rate. Various Goods are services are exempt from VAT, including medical care, posting services, financial services, education and various smaller occasions.\n\nStamp duties apply on various verifications of public documents. For incorporation purposes, stamp duties may range from EUR 50 to EUR 100. Corporate Taxes in Bosnia is levied at a flat rate of 10%.\n\nTaxation in Bosnia has shifted over time, depending on the government that was in power. During the Yugoslav era taxation was similar to that of the rest of the Soviet, which typically relied heavily on a turnover tax and taxes paid by enterprises. In case of this two taxes they respectively made up 50% and 5% of total revenue in 1963.\n"}
{"id": "36178831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36178831", "title": "Taxation in Estonia", "text": "Taxation in Estonia\n\nTaxation in Estonia consists of state and local taxes. A relatively high proportion of government revenue comes from consumption taxes whilst revenue from capital taxes is one of the lowest in the European Union.\n\nEstonia levies a Land Value Tax which is used to fund local municipalities. It is a state level tax, but 100% of the revenue is used to fund Local Councils. The rate is set by the Local Council within the limits of 0.1-2.5%. It is one of the most important sources of funding for municipalities.\n\nThe Land Value Tax is levied on the value of the land only, improvements are not considered. Very few exemptions are considered on the land tax and even public institutions are subject to the land value tax. Land that is the site of a church is exempt, but other land held by religious institutions is not exempt.\n\nThe tax has contributed to a high rate (~90%) of owner-occupied residences within Estonia, compared to a rate of 67.4% in the United States.\n\nEstonia natural person income tax is considered to be proportional, but, due to basic exemption, it is actually progressive. Standard rate for natural persons in year 2015 is 20% (down from 21% in 2014). A basic exemption is granted, which is increased upon provision of maintenance to a child, in event of pensions, in event of compensation for accident at work or occupational disease. Additionally a number of expenses are deductible: housing loan interests, training expenses, gifts, donations, contributions to a voluntary/mandatory funded pension and unemployment insurance, social security payments mandatory in a foreign state. Amount of deductible housing loan interest, training expenses, gifts and donations is limited – in 2011 the limit was 3196 euros but no more than 50% of the taxpayer's income during the same period of taxation.\n\nThere is no capital gains tax but gains from transfer of securities or other financial assets are subject to standard income tax. Since 2011 a new system has been in place, which allows natural persons to defer the tax liability created on income received from financial assets until the time of taking the income into use, by using an investment account for this purpose. An investment account is just an ordinary monetary account with an obligation to record all money transfers. For attaining an objective by means of an investment account income received from the financial assets must be transferred to an investment account without delay. A taxable amount shall be created when the disbursements made from all investment accounts exceed the balance of contributions in all investment accounts after the disbursement.\n\nSalaries paid to employees are subject to\nSocial tax rate stands at 33%. The same rate is applied to fringe benefits that employer provides to employees. Unemployment insurance premiums are paid by both employer and employee: 2,8% is withheld is of the employee gross salary and 1,4% is paid by employers of monthly gross salaries. In 2012, a rate of a funded pension payment is 2% of the gross salary of a resident employee and are withheld by employer.\n\nLegal persons income tax rate is 20% in the year 2015. However, the system of corporate earnings taxation currently in force in Estonia is a unique system, which shifts the moment of corporate taxation from the moment of earning the profits to the moment of their distribution. In other words, earning profits in itself does not bring income tax liability, which arises only when earned profit is distributed to shareholders. In case profit distributed to shareholders originates from dividends received from subsidiary company or from permanent establishment corporation has in other country, then profit distribution is tax exempt. Estonia does not have withholding tax on dividends paid. Nevertheless, Distributed profits are taxed at a rate of 20%.\n\nFrom 1 July 2009, the standard VAT tax rate in Estonia has been 20% and a reduced rate of 9%. A small number of goods and services are not taxed. Estonian VAT system is based on EU Council directive 2006/112/EC and its basic principles are the same as in other EU countries. As of 2018 annual turnover threshold for mandatory registration as VAT liable person is 40 000 euros.\n\nResponsibility for administering taxes lies on the Tax and Customs Board. Majority of tax declarations are presented via internet: for example, in the year 2012 94,2% of all natural persons income tax declaration were presented using the Internet. Percentages for VAT and customs declarations are even higher.\n\nTaxes applied in Estonia that were not mentioned previously:\n\n"}
{"id": "28930450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28930450", "title": "Taxation in Finland", "text": "Taxation in Finland\n\nTaxation in Finland is carried out by the State of Finland, mainly through the Finnish Tax Administration, an agency of the Ministry of Finance. Finnish Customs and the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, Trafi, also collect taxes. Taxes collected are distributed to the Government, municipalities, church, and the Social Insurance Institution, Kela. \n\nThe total Finnish income tax includes the income tax dependable on the net salary, employee unemployment payment, and employer unemployment payment. \nThe tax rate increases very progressively rapidly at 13 ke/year (from 25% to 48%) and at 29 ke/year to 55% and eventually reaches 67% at 83 ke/year, while little decreases at 127 ke/year to 65%, 2018. \nThe middle-income person will get 44 euros from every 100 euros the employer puts on the work. \nThe GP will then again get from every extra 100 euros that the employer puts on the work only 33 euros. \nSome sources do not include the employer unemployment payment, for instance Veronmaksajat -organisation. \n\nEarned gross income is taxed with a progressive state tax (tax brackets 6% – 31.25%) and proportional communal taxes paid to municipalities (16.5% – 22.5%, average 19.17%) and parishes (1.00% – 2.00%, average 1.34%). The permanent residents of Finland also pay health insurance contributions, a medical care fee (1.19%) and a daily allowance contribution (0.82%). There is an earned income tax credit for local taxes, making them slightly progressive despite their fixed rate.\n\nThe tax-like mandatory insurance fees are deducted from net pay. The employee's pension and unemployment insurance fees have rates varying according to the person's age but they are usually at 4.7% and 0.6%, respectively.\n\nTotal income tax, including the mandatory insurance fees, was 29.8% for an average yearly income of 37,400 € in 2010.\n\nThe tax authority collects income taxes from each paycheck, and then pays the difference between tax liability and taxes paid as tax rebate or collects as tax arrears afterward.\n\nThere are also indirect tax-like mandatory social security contributions and insurance fees paid by the employer in addition to the gross income. The social security contribution is 2.12% of gross income. The pension and unemployment insurance fees depend on the age of the employee and the size of the employer, they are usually 18.3% and 3.2% of gross income, respectively.\n\nThe income from dividends, rents, and capital gains are taxed with \"capital income tax\". In 2017 the capital income is taxed at a fixed rate of 30% or 34% for income that exceeds 30,000 euro.\n\nLimited companies have a different taxation depending on if they are listed or not. Public companies have 15% of their dividends tax-exempt. The effective dividend tax rate is thus 25.5% - 28.9%.\n\nHowever, taxation of the dividends from non-listed companies is much lower. As much as 75% of these dividends is tax-exempt up until 150,000 €. This still includes a condition that the dividend must be under or equal to 8% of the mathematical value of the stock (portion of net assets for a single share). 75% of the part that exceeds the 8% boundary will be taxed instead as earned income. If an individual gets more than 150,000 € in dividends from non-listed limited companies, the tax-exempt percentage will only be 15% for the amount that exceeds 150,000 €. The effective tax rate for a dividend that does not exceed 8% of the value of a stock will be 7.5% - 8.5%. Due to the effect of net assets, dividends of debted private companies will usually have their dividends taxed as earned income.\n\nThe corporate income tax rate is 20.0%. The corporate tax was fully paid as dividend tax before 2004, but because of neutrality requirements of the EU, the tax credits allowed for dividends are now more complex. Corporate tax was lowered from 24.5% to 20.0% in January 2014.\n\nMunicipal property taxes are low, since municipalities mostly meet their funding needs via direct income taxes and state subsidies. Tax rates are higher for leisure properties like summer cottages. Property taxes are levied annually on present market value. General rates are 0.60–1.35%, 0.32-0.75% on regular housing and 0.50-1.00% on leisure properties.\n\nThere is a 4% property transfer tax for property, and 1.6% for stock and housing cooperative shares. First-time home buyers home are exempt.\n\nVAT is levied at a standard rate of 24% (January 2013), and two reduced rates of 14% on food, restaurant services, catering services and animal feed, and 10% on books, pharmaceutical products, services creating opportunities for physical exercise, passenger transportation and accommodation.\n\nExcise taxes are in place for alcohol, tobacco, sweets, lotteries, insurances, transport fuels and automobiles (2011). The motor vehicle tax is substantial. As a rule, permanent residents cannot drive foreign-registered cars in Finland. Persons with permanent residence outside Finland may drive foreign-registered car in Finland for six months, or up to 18 months if residence abroad is separately proven to Customs.\n\nPharmacies pay only the excise tax from their yearly income; no VAT is levied on medications. There is a tax credit for pharmacies that keep subsidiary pharmacies (\"sivuapteekki\"). The aim of this policy is to support keeping pharmacies in sparsely populated regions.\n\nThe mandatory pension fees are paid directly to the pension insurance company selected by the employer or entrepreneur. The pension fees total 23% of the gross income (2011), usually 4.7% is deducted from gross income and the rest of the 23% is paid by the employer in addition to the gross income.\n\nThe voluntary pension insurance fees or transfers to a personal pension account are credited in earned income taxation up to 5000 € per year.\n\nAccording to Finnwatch 60–70% (€37 billion) of Finnish pension funds are invested in the tax havens. Political parties have different agendas in respect to tax havens.\n\nTaxes are collected from members of the two official churches, Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and Finnish Orthodox Church, and two country-wide Lutheran parishes; the German parish in Finland and Olaus Petri parish for citizens of Sweden living in Finland. The tax rates vary from 1% to 2% of earned income. Persons that are not members of these churches are exempted from paying. However, some of the corporate tax gains are distributed also to churches. This is motivated by their legal requirements to provide certain public services such as maintenance of cemeteries.\n\nEven when information of earnings and the taxation procedure of individual persons and companies are not public, the amount of taxes carried for each person and company is public information. Tax Administration authority is required to submit information for free if request is targeted. Larger records are submitted for journalistic purposes. Capital income and earned income, are both public information, while taxation of dividends from unlisted limited company is not.\n\nAnyone who has arrived in Finland and stayed longer than 6 months will become, from Tax Administrator's view, a resident. The residents' worldwide income is subject to Finnish tax, so that no distinction exists between the source country. Non-residents are subjected only to taxation of Finnish-sourced income.\n\nPersons working in Finland for a short period can get their Finnish personal ID at the tax office. The Finnish Tax Administration is entitled to enter information into the Population Register System and distribute identity codes jointly with Local Register Offices if the matter concerns foreigners who arrive for temporary periods, i.e. less than one year to work in Finland. ID requires following information entered to the system: Full name, Date of birth, Sex, Place of birth, Address, Citizenship, Native language and Occupation.\n\nIn association of measures against grey economy in the construction industry, A new Act governing the mandatory Tax Numbers and the public Register of Tax Numbers was adopted in 2012. At the moment mandatory Tax Numbers are issued for construction-industry workers only. The Individual Tax Number does not reveal the individual's age, sex or date of birth. The number doesn't change when a worker moves on to work for another employer or to work at another construction site.\n\nUnder the Act on Withholding Tax for Foreign Wage Earners with Special Expertise (1995), a withholding tax of 35% is levied instead of State income tax on earned income and communal tax. The withholding tax is applied to foreign employees under the following conditions:\n\n\nA taxpayer is deemed to be a foreign expert for a maximum of 48 months from the beginning of the employment.\n\nSalaries or grants paid by the European Union bodies, such as European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, are tax-free in Finland and do not need to be reported to the Finnish Tax Administration or Finnish social security. Employees of European Union bodies may bring a car to Finland without paying the Finnish car tax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3127965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127965", "title": "Textualism", "text": "Textualism\n\nTextualism is a formalist theory in which the interpretation of the law is primarily based on the ordinary meaning of the legal text, where no consideration is given to non-textual sources, such as: intention of the law when passed, the problem it was intended to remedy, or significant questions regarding the justice or rectitude of the law.\n\nThe textualist will \"look at the statutory structure and hear the words as they would sound in the mind of a skilled, objectively reasonable user of words.\" The textualist thus does not give weight to legislative history materials when attempting to ascertain the meaning of a text. Textualism is often erroneously conflated with originalism, and was advocated by United States Supreme Court Justices such as Hugo Black and Antonin Scalia; the latter staked out his claim in his 1997 Tanner Lecture: \"[it] is the law that governs, not the intent of the lawgiver.\" Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., although not a textualist himself, well-captured this philosophy, and its rejection of intentionalism: \"We ask, not what this man meant, but what those words would mean in the mouth of a normal speaker of English, using them in the circumstances in which they were used ... We do not inquire what the legislature meant; we ask only what the statutes mean.\"\n\nStrict constructionism is often misused by laypersons and critics as a synonym for textualism. Nevertheless, although a textualist could be a strict constructionist, these are distinctive views. To illustrate this, it may be quoted Justice Scalia, who warns that \"[t]extualism should not be confused with so-called strict constructionism, a degraded form of textualism that brings the whole philosophy into disrepute. I am not a strict constructionist, and no one ought to be... A text should not be construed strictly, and it should not be construed leniently; it should be construed reasonably, to contain all that it fairly means.\" Similarly, textualism should not be confused with the \"plain meaning\" approach, a simpler theory used prominently by the Burger Court in cases such as \"Tennessee Valley Authority v. Hill\", which looked to the dictionary definitions of words, without reference to common public understanding or context.\n\nTextualism looks to the ordinary meaning of the language of the text, but it looks at the ordinary meaning of the \"text\", not merely the possible range of meaning of each of its constituent \"words\" (see Noscitur a sociis):\n\nAs an illustrative example, Justice Scalia refers to a case in which the law provided for a longer sentence when the defendant \"uses a firearm\" \"during and in relation to\" a \"drug trafficking crime.\" In the case, the defendant had offered to trade an unloaded gun as barter for cocaine, and the majority (wrongly, in his view) took this meeting the standard for the enhanced penalty. He writes that \"a proper textualist\" would have decided differently:\n\nJustice Scalia has also written:\n\nTextualists do not, generally, accept the authority of the Courts to \"refine\" statutes:\n\nTextualists acknowledge the interpretive doctrine of \"lapsus linguae\" (slip of the tongue), also called \"scrivener's error.\" This doctrine accounts for the situation when on the very face of the statute, it is apparent that there is a mistake of expression. (See, e.g., \"United States v. X-Citement Video\", 513 U.S. 64) (1994) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (\"I have been willing, in the case of civil statutes, to acknowledge a doctrine of 'scrivener's error' that permits a court to give an unusual (though not unheard of) meaning to a word which, if given its normal meaning, would produce an absurd and arguably unconstitutional result\") and even break it (see, e.g., \"Green v. Bock Laundry Machine Co.\", 490 U.S. 504, 527) (1989) (Scalia, J., concurring) (\"We are confronted here with a statute which, if interpreted literally, produces an absurd, and perhaps unconstitutional, result. Our task is to give some alternative meaning to the word \"defendant\" in Federal Rule of Evidence 609(a)(1) that avoids this consequence; and then to determine whether Rule 609(a)(1) excludes the operation of Federal Rule of Evidence 403.\") Other textualists might reach alternative conclusions. Scalia's apparent inconsistency is perhaps explained by his choice to sometimes adhere to the more venerable judicial canons of interpretation, such as the constitutional avoidance canon.\n\nThe word \"textualism\" was first used by Mark Pattison in 1863 to criticize Puritan theology, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. Justice Robert Jackson first used the word \"textualism\" in a Supreme Court opinion a century later in \"Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer\".\n\nIn his article, \"Must Formalism Be Defended Empirically?\" Professor Cass Sunstein begins by stating:\n\nTextualism was influential in Australia, and was particularly prominent in the interpretative approach of Sir Garfield Barwick. Amendments to the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 have rejected key elements of textualism, stating that statements made in the Second Reading speech by Ministers introducing an Act may be used in the interpretation of that act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3832618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832618", "title": "Treaty of Tolentino", "text": "Treaty of Tolentino\n\nThe Treaty of Tolentino was a peace treaty between Revolutionary France and the Papal States, signed on 19 February 1797 and imposing terms of surrender on the Papal side. The signatories for France were the French Directory's Ambassador to the Holy See, François Cacault, and the rising General Napoleon Bonaparte and opposite them four representatives of Pius VI's Curia. \nIt was part of the events following the invasion of Italy in the early stages of the French Revolutionary Wars. Having defeated the Austrians at the Battle of Mantua, at the Arcola Bridge and in the Battle of Rivoli, Napoleon had no more enemies in northern Italy and was able to devote himself to the Papal States. Following nine months of negotiations between France and the Papal States, in February 1797 9,000 French soldiers invaded the Papal Romagna Region, leaving the Pope no choice but to accept the French terms.\n\nThe treaty added 15 million livre to the indemnity of 21 millions extracted from the Papal States at the preceding armistice signed at Bologna—36 million in all. \n\nIn addition, the papal city of Avignon and its territory, the Comtat Venaissin, which had been occupied by French forces at an early stage of the Revolution, were formally ceded to France - putting a definite end to half a millennium of Papal rule. \n\nThe Romagna region - as noted, already invaded by the French - was also ceded by the Papal States and included in the newly created Cisalpine Republic. \n\nThe treaty also formalized the confiscation of artistic treasures from the Vatican. Over a hundred paintings and other works of art were to go to the Louvre in Paris. The French commissioners reserved the right to enter any building, public, religious or private, to make their choice and assessment of what was to be taken to France. This part of the treaty was extended to apply to all of Italy in 1798 by treaties with other Italian states. \n\nOther conditions imposed on the Papal States included a compensation to the family of the journalist Hugh de Basseville, killed by a crowd in Rome for having allegedly \"insulted the Pope\", and giving consent to the stationing of French troops in Ancona until the end of the war.\n\nOf the French terms, the confiscation of artistic works - or, as many considered it, theft and plunder - came under criticism and its legitimacy questioned. Among the fiercest opponents was Quatremère de Quincy who in 1796 wrote a pamphlet, \"Letters in Miranda\", in which he affirmed the strong relationship between a work of art and the place in which it was intended, asserting that \"eradicating the context in which the work was created irreparably impairs its legibility\". \n\nOf the confiscated works of art, a bronze statue by Giunio Bruto remains in Paris. However, most of the works were restored after Napoleon's fall, and Bruto's main works are now located in Vatican Gardens in Rome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28830402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28830402", "title": "Unregistered cohabitation", "text": "Unregistered cohabitation\n\nUnregistered cohabitation is a legal status (sometimes \"de facto\") given to same-sex or opposite-sex couples in certain jurisdictions. They may be similar to common-law marriages.\n\nMore specifically, unregistered cohabitation may refer to:\n\nSome other countries and sub-national regions recognize unregistered cohabitation, as listed in the \"Civil union\" article.\n\n"}
{"id": "42260519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42260519", "title": "Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act", "text": "Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act\n\nThe Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act is a bill (H.R. 4276) introduced in the 113th U.S. Congress that would extend medical treatment and rehabilitation services to U.S. military veterans suffering from traumatic brain injuries.\n\nThe bill would change the benchmark used by a current federal pilot program for treatment from \"assisted living\" to \"community-integrated rehabilitation (CIR)\" services. The change would expand the treatment options available to veterans to include neurobehavioral, residential programs, day treatment, and home-based programs. The bill would authorize the pilot program for 8 years (up from 5). Additionally, the bill would require that the program is accessible in each VA region that contains a polytrauma center.\n\nBetween 2004-2014, over 280,000 American military service members (equivalent to approximately 18 percent of total military members) were diagnosed with tramautic brain injury.\n\nOn August 8, 2012, President Obama signed into law the Veterans' Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitative Services' Improvements Act of 2011. Before that date, tramautic brain injury treatment at the VA hospitals focused on physical restoration. The legislation added some expansion to the focus of care to include more comprehensive and holistic rehabilitation plans.\n\nIn 2011, Senator Max Baucus introduced S. 666, the Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act of 2011, which would have directed the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to study the feasibility of creating a treatment center in the northern Rockies or the Dakotas and specifically evaluate Montana as a site for the center.\n\nAt the state level, a bill was introduced in March 2014 in the Oklahoma State Senate to provide free hyperbaric oxygen treatment for veterans suffering from traumatic brain injury.\n\n"}
{"id": "225550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225550", "title": "Virginia Declaration of Rights", "text": "Virginia Declaration of Rights\n\nThe Virginia Declaration of Rights is a document drafted in 1776 to proclaim the inherent rights of men, including the right to reform or abolish \"inadequate\" government. It influenced a number of later documents, including the United States Declaration of Independence (1776) and the United States Bill of Rights (1789).\n\nThe Declaration was adopted unanimously by the Fifth Virginia Convention at Williamsburg, Virginia on June 12, 1776 as a separate document from the Constitution of Virginia which was later adopted on June 29, 1776. In 1830, the Declaration of Rights was incorporated within the Virginia State Constitution as Article I, but even before that Virginia's Declaration of Rights stated that it was '\"the basis and foundation of government\" in Virginia. A slightly updated version may still be seen in Virginia's Constitution, making it legally in effect to this day.\n\nTen articles were initially drafted by George Mason circa May 20–26, 1776; three other articles were added in committee, seen in the original draft in the handwriting of Thomas Ludwell Lee, but the author is unknown.\nJames Madison later proposed liberalizing the article on religious freedom, but the larger Virginia Convention made further changes. It was later amended by Committee and the entire Convention, including the addition of a section on the right to a uniform government (Section 14).\n\nMason based his initial draft on the rights of citizens described in earlier works such as the English Bill of Rights (1689), and the writings of John Locke and the Declaration can be considered the first modern Constitutional protection of individual rights for citizens of North America. It rejected the notion of privileged political classes or hereditary offices such as the members of Parliament and House of Lords described in the English Bill of Rights.\n\nThe Declaration consists of sixteen articles on the subject of which rights \"pertain to [the people of Virginia]...as the basis and foundation of Government.\" In addition to affirming the inherent nature of rights to life, liberty, property, and pursuing and obtaining happiness and safety, the Declaration both describes a view of Government as the servant of the people, and enumerates its separation of powers into the administration, legislature, and judiciary. Thus, the document is unusual in that it not only prescribes legal rights, but it also describes moral principles upon which a government should be run.\n\nArticles 1–3 address the subject of rights and the relationship between government and the governed. Article 1 states that \"all men are by nature equally free and independent, and have certain inherent rights of which . . . they cannot deprive or divest their posterity; namely, the enjoyment of life and liberty, with the means of acquiring and possessing property, and pursuing and obtaining happiness and safety,\" a statement later made internationally famous in the second paragraph of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, as \"we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.\"\n\nArticles 2 and 3 note the revolutionary concept that \"all power is vested in, and consequently derived from, the people...\" and that \"whenever any government shall be found inadequate or contrary to these purposes, a majority of the community hath an indubitable, unalienable, and indefeasible right to reform, alter or abolish it, in such manner as shall be judged most conducive to the public weal.\"\n\nArticle 4 asserts the equality of all citizens, rejecting the notion of privileged political classes or hereditary offices – another criticism of British institutions such as the House of Lords and the privileges of the peerage: \"no set of men, are entitled to exclusive or separate emoluments or privileges from the community, but in consideration of public services; which, not being descendible, neither ought the offices of magistrate, legislator, or judge be hereditary.\"\n\nArticles 5 and 6 recommend the principles of separation of powers and free elections, \"frequent, certain, and regular\" of executives and legislators: \"That the legislative and executive powers of the state should be separate and distinct from the judicative; and, that the members of the two first...should, at fixed periods, be reduced to a private station, return into that body from which they were originally taken...by frequent, certain, and regular elections.\"\n\nArticles 7–16 propose restrictions on the powers of the government, declaring the government should not have the power of suspending or executing laws, \"without consent of the representatives of the people\"; establishing the legal rights to be \"confronted with the accusers and witnesses, to call for evidence in his favor, and to a speedy trial by an impartial jury of his vicinage,\" and to prevent a citizen from being \"compelled to give evidence against himself.\" protections against \"cruel and unusual punishments\", baseless search and seizure, and the guarantees of a trial by jury, freedom of the press, freedom of religion (\"all men are equally entitled to the free exercise of religion\"), and \"the proper, natural, and safe defence of a free state\" rested in a well regulated militia composed of the body of the people, trained to arms, that standing armies in time of peace, should be avoided as dangerous to liberty; Article 8 protects a person against \"being deprived of his liberty except by the law of the land\" which later evolved into the due process clause in the federal Bill of Rights. Article 12 is the first ever codification of the right to a free press and was an important precursor to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe following is the complete text of the Virginia Declaration of Rights:\n\nThe committee draft was written chiefly by George Mason, and the final version was adopted by the Virginia Convention with significant amendments by Robert C. Nicholas and James Madison on June 12, 1776.\nThe Virginia Declaration of Rights heavily influenced later documents. The Committee of Five is thought to have drawn on it when they drafted the United States Declaration of Independence in the same month (June 1776). James Madison was also influenced by the Declaration while drafting the Bill of Rights (introduced September 1789, ratified 1791).\n\nThe Virginia Declaration of Rights was one of the earliest documents to emphasize the protection of individual rights, rather than protecting only members of Parliament or consisting of simple laws that can be changed as easily as passed. For instance, it was the first declaration of rights to call for a free press.\n\nVirginia's western counties cited the Declaration of Rights as a justification for rejecting the state's Ordinance of Secession before the American Civil War. The delegates to the Wheeling Convention argued that under the Declaration of Rights, any change in the form of government had to be approved by a referendum. Since the Secession Convention had not been convened by a referendum, the western counties argued that all of its acts were void. This set in motion the chain of events that ultimately led the western counties to break off as the separate state of West Virginia.\n\n\n"}
