{"id": "2733949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2733949", "title": "Aelfwald of Sussex", "text": "Aelfwald of Sussex\n\nÆlfwald was a King of Sussex, who reigned jointly with Ealdwulf and Oslac, and probably also with Oswald and Osmund.\n\nÆlfwald witnessed an undated charter of Ealdwulf, believed to be from about 765, with his name corruptly recorded as \"Ælhuuald rex\".\n\nÆlfwald also witnessed a charter of Offa, King of Mercia, dated 772, as \"Ælbuuald dux\", with his name placed after Oswald, Osmund, but before Oslac. \n\nHe is not known to have issued charters of his own.\n\n"}
{"id": "6594326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6594326", "title": "Alvar Larsson", "text": "Alvar Larsson\n\nAlvar Larsson was a Swedish boy who disappeared in 1967. Alvar and his family lived at a farm called Sundslätt at the southeast part of the island Sirkö in Åsnen, one of the largest lakes in Småland. He left his house on a Sunday morning to take a walk and bring in some wood, leaving no traces behind. In 1982, more than fifteen years after the disappearance, his cranium was found on a small island 6 km away. The disappearance attracted a lot of media coverage at the time and many theories as to what happened have been put forward. Thomas Quick has confessed to the crime, but has recanted all his confessions.\n\nOn the morning of April 16, 1967, Alvar was woken up at half past seven by his mother. He ate a bun, drank a glass of fruit juice and dressed in his everyday clothes. Before breakfast and a visit to the church later that morning, Alvar wanted to go for a walk. His mother let him go and told him to bring in wood as he returned. No-one has reported that they've seen him since.\n\nBy the time it was too late for Alvar to eat breakfast, get dressed and leave for church, his mother phoned the nearest neighbours asking about Alvar, but no-one had seen him. Alvar's father phoned the nearest neighbour and the two men searched the farm for the boy. Later, all the neighbours were asked to join the search. A constable named Emanuelsson was asked to start a search for Alvar as he was only five kilometers away at the time. The initial search party consisted of the family, neighbours, two police officers, a privately owned German Shepherd and the Home Guard. The search went on into the night without result.\n\nIn the early morning, Harald contacted the police and informed them that Alvar had not returned, and yet another search soon started. In the afternoon, fifty servicemen from the army infantry regiment I 11 in Växjö joined. During the following week, more people arrived to aid the search, and the lake was searched by the use of boats. A police helicopter was also flown in from Stockholm at Tuesday. At most, 150 persons were in the search party at the same time.\n\nInitially the main theory was that thirteen-year-old Alvar had run from home. However, it is hard to explain why Alvar would not have dressed up more with heavier shoes, eaten breakfast, brought his money and/or used his bicycle if he had planned to leave.\n\nA boy of Alvar's age had been seen north of Kalmar, in Påskallavik, but he could later be identified. This was also the case for a boy who had gotten a ride by a truck driver, a boy that had been seen spending the Sunday night at the postal station in Rottne, and other boys that had been spotted hitch-hiking in the area.\n\nThat Alvar would have been alive during the week-long search and later died is dismissed by most sources. If he had died in an accident, it would most likely have happened early Sunday, and the location of his death would have been the lake. It is just short of a kilometre from Sundslätt to the lake, and Alvar is speculated to have suddenly decided to row by boat. During the searches and investigations, all the boats in the lake were checked, but one is said to have been forgotten by its owner due to its bad state. That Alvar could not swim suggests he would not have entered a boat, but if he had, his lack of ability to swim could have become fatal.\n\nIt is said that the fact that Alvar's clogs have not surfaced at the waterside, as opposed to many other clogs, suggests that he did not drown in the lake.\n\nThe first theories involving a crime were suggested on the Monday, and these ideas seemed more plausible as time passed. The police received several tips about persons who had acted suspiciously, all of which could be rejected. The theory was that Alvar would have gone to the cellar to smoke and that someone would have passed and convinced him to follow them.\n\nIn 1978, more than ten years after the disappearance, a grave was opened. A woman had told the police of how a relative of hers had told her of how he'd killed a boy in Småland in 1967 and how he'd hidden the body near the deserted summer house for two years. The man would then have moved the body to the bottom of a grave, prepared for a relative of his, where he'd covered it with spruce twigs. Although he had been celebrating the 50th anniversary of his wedding on the day Alvar disappeared and had been working the night before, the grave was opened. In front of a large press gathering, the coffin was lifted out and nothing was found under it.\n\nIn November 1982, three hunters had rowed to Harö, a small island, to train their dogs. In a bay they had found a human skull. Realizing that the teeth had fillings and thus could not be an archeological finding, the men contacted the police. The police immediately assumed that the skull belonged to Alvar and using his dental record, this theory could be confirmed. The island was searched in detail but the only other findings were two rowing boats. The owners soon reported to the police and it could be excluded that Alvar would have used any of the boats to get to the island.\n\nAlthough there was a big hole in the back of the skull, experts could not determine whether it had received a fatal blow or whether the damage had been caused by the weather in the years that had passed since the boy's death.\n\nThe skull of Alvar has been buried alongside of the boy's father and any crime involved with the disappearance has been barred under the statute of limitations.\n\n"}
{"id": "49234629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49234629", "title": "Amalendu Biswas", "text": "Amalendu Biswas\n\nAmalendu Biswas (19251987) was a Bangladeshi stage actor. Calling \"Jatra Samrat\", he specialized in \"jatra pala\" genre. He won \"Sequence of Merit Award\" by Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in 1980. He was awarded Ekushey Padak by the Government of Bangladesh posthumously in 1989.\n\nBiswas started his career at the British Royal Airforce. He left the service during World War II and formed a jatra troupe \"Charanika Jatra Shamaj\". He performed with the troupe \"Natta Company\" while he was in Kolkata.\n\nBiswas was married to Jyotsna Biswas. They had a daughter Aruna Biswas.\n\nIn 2003, annual \"Amalendu Biswas Memorial Award\" was launched by Bangladesh Jatra Shilpa Unnayan Parishad (BJSUP) to award notable theater actors.\n\n"}
{"id": "244354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244354", "title": "American Gold Star Mothers", "text": "American Gold Star Mothers\n\nAmerican Gold Star Mothers, Inc. (AGSM), is a private nonprofit organization of American mothers who lost sons or daughters in service of the United States Armed Forces. It was originally formed in 1928 for mothers of those lost in World War I, and it holds a congressional charter under Title 36 § 211 of the United States Code. Its name came from the custom of families of servicemen hanging a banner called a service flag in the windows of their homes. The service flag had a star for each family member in the Armed Forces. Living servicemen were represented by a blue star, and those who had lost their lives in combat were represented by a gold star. \n\nMembership in the organization is open to any woman who is a U.S. citizen or legal resident that has lost a son or daughter in active service in the U.S. military (regardless of the place or time of the military service, regardless of whether the circumstances of death involved hostile conflict or not, and including mothers of those missing in action).\n\nThe Gold Star Mothers was founded by Grace Darling Seibold of Washington, D.C.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War I in 1917, George Vaughn Seibold, 23, volunteered, requesting assignment in aviation. He was sent to Canada where he learned to fly British planes since the United States had neither an air force nor planes. Deployed to England, he was assigned to the British Royal Flying Corps with 148th Aero Squadron. With his squadron, he left for combat duty in France. He corresponded with his family regularly. His mother, Grace Darling Seibold, began to do community service by visiting returning servicemen in the hospitals.\n\nThe mail from George stopped. Since all aviators were under British control and authority, the United States could not help the Seibold family with any information about their son.\n\nGrace continued to visit hospitalized veterans in the Washington area, clinging to the hope that her son might have been injured and returned to the United States without any identification. While working through her sorrow, she helped ease the pain of the many servicemen who returned so war-damaged that they were incapable of ever reaching normalcy.\n\nBut on October 11, 1918, George's wife in Chicago received a box marked \"Effects of deceased Officer 1st Lt. George Vaughn Seibold\". The Seibolds also received a confirmation of George's death on November 4 through a family member in Paris. George's body was never identified.\n\nGrace, convinced that self-contained grief is self-destructive, devoted her time and efforts not only to working in the hospital but also to supporting other mothers whose sons had lost their lives in military service. She organized a group consisting solely of these mothers, with the purpose of not only comforting each other, but giving loving care to hospitalized veterans confined in government hospitals far from home. The organization was named after the Gold Star that families hung in their windows in honor of the deceased veteran. After years of planning, twenty-five mothers met in Washington, D.C., on June 4, 1928, to establish the national organization, American Gold Star Mothers, Inc.\n\nOn May 28, 1918, President Woodrow Wilson approved a suggestion made by the Council of National Defense that, instead of wearing conventional mourning for relatives who have died in the service of their country, American women should wear a black band on the left arm with a gilt star on the band for each member of the family who has given his life for the nation.\n\n\"The Service Flag displayed from homes, places of business, churches, schools, etc., to indicate the number of members of the family or organizations who are serving in the Armed Forces or who have died from such service. Service flags have a deep Blue Star for each living member in the service and a Gold Star for each member who has died.\" Thus, the Gold Star and the term Gold Star Mother, as applied to mothers whose sons or daughters died in World War I, were accepted; they have continued to be used in reference to all American military engagements since that time.\n\nMembership in American Gold Star Mothers was originally restricted to those who lost sons or daughters in World War I, and was later expanded to include mothers of those lost in World War II, then the Korean War, and then other specific conflicts. Today, the membership criteria do not consider the place or time of the military service and do not consider whether the circumstances of the death involved hostile conflict or not, and also allow membership for mothers of those missing in action.\n\nFor the first 77 years of its existence, AGSM restricted its membership criteria to admit only U.S. citizens. As a way to create pressure to change the rule, an application for admission was submitted in 2005 that deliberately highlighted the applicant's lack of citizenship. The application, from Ligaya Lagman, a Filipino permanent resident of the United States living in Yonkers, New York, who had been living in the U.S. more than 20 years and whose son, Marine Staff Sgt. Anthony Lagman, was killed in action in Afghanistan in 2004 at the age of 26, was rejected in May 2005. In the next month after that incident, which received a \"firestorm\" of publicity that included negative commentary by New York U.S. Representative Eliot Engel and New York U.S. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the group agreed on June 27, 2005, to change its membership criteria, and it accepted its first two non-citizens as members a few months later in early September 2005.\n\nThe AGSM is a private 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that sets its own rules for who is allowed to become a member. The current charter, held under Title 36 § 211 of the United States Code, was established on June 12, 1984.\n\nToday, membership in American Gold Star Mothers is open to any woman who was a U.S. citizen or legal resident of the U.S. or its Territories or Insular Possessions at the time their child (or adopted child) was inducted into military service and whose child (or adopted child) has died or has become missing in action while in the United States Armed Forces (or died later as the result of such service). Membership is not contingent on whether the child was killed in action or on the theater of operation or the time period of the service (which differs from distinctions made by the Department of Defense, which confers special status to service in particular periods of time and particular hostile operations). Non-adoptive stepmothers are also eligible for membership if they assumed responsibility for the child before the age of fifteen and raised them. Husbands and children of Gold Star Mothers are eligible to join as Associate Members. Honorary membership is available to mothers who were not citizens or legal residents at the time their child was inducted. Associate Members and Honorary Members cannot vote or hold official positions (and are not required to pay dues). \n\nAGSM is made up of local chapters, which are organized into departments. Five members are required to start a local chapter. If no local chapter is available, a woman may join the organization as a member at large.\n\nJust as when it was founded, AGSM continues to concentrate on providing emotional support to its members, doing volunteer work with veterans in general and veterans' hospitals in particular, and generally fostering a sense of patriotism and respect for members of the Armed Forces.\n\nThe uniform consists of a white skirt, white shirt, and a white blazer, with a gold star embroidered on either lapel, and gold piping on the sleeve cuffs, and collars, and white shoes, either Mary Janes or pumps, with a white cap, similar to a women's service hat, with gold piping. This uniform is worn at all parades, meetings, and social functions connected with military functions (e.g., Memorial Day services at Arlington National Cemetery)\n\nAside from the founder, perhaps the mother most known for being a Gold Star mother was Aletta Sullivan, the mother of the five Sullivan brothers, who were killed in action when their ship, the was sunk by an enemy torpedo on November 13, 1942 during the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal. On September 21, 1948, the U.S. Post Office issued a commemorative stamp, specially designed by artist Charles R. Chickering, honoring the Gold Star Mothers. Mrs. Sullivan was given the first sheet of stamps issued.\n\nOn the last Sunday in September, Gold Star Mother's Day is observed in the U.S. in honor of Gold Star mothers, as established in Title 36 § 111 of the United States Code. This was originally declared by Senate Joint Resolution 115 of June 23, 1936. In September 2012, Barack Obama issued a presidential proclamation commemorating September 30, 2012, as \"Gold Star Mother's and Family's Day\". On September 23, 2017, President Donald Trump proclaimed \"Gold Star Mother's and Family's Day\".\n\nAmerican Gold Star Manor, located in Long Beach, California, is a 348-unit retirement home for parents of soldiers killed while serving in the military. It was founded in the early 1960s by Eleanor Boyd, then president of the American Gold Star Mothers organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "19317930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317930", "title": "Anchor Gaslamp", "text": "Anchor Gaslamp\n\nThe Anchor Gaslamp was a Christian community in downtown San Diego, California. It is missional in intent and incarnational in practice. Since the first gathering on Easter Sunday in 2008 the group has attracted a diverse congregation. They have since moved to East Village and changed their name to New City Church \n\nAnchor Gaslamp met on the first three Sundays of the month in the heart of downtown San Diego's Gaslamp Quarter. The gatherings were held upstairs in The Keating Hotel located on the corner of 5th & F St.). On the other Sundays, the Community joined together for Anchor in Action which are mission-driven events all over the city, with the sole purpose of \"not just going to church, but being the church.\" These Sundays ranged in activities from homeless barbecues to delivering truckloads of donated goods to orphanages and women's recovery homes in Baja California.\n\nThe larger community was made up of other smaller communities that met throughout the week. All other meetings, services, or mission-events were derived out of these communities, which met in various locations throughout the city.\n\nThe Church began as a church planting project of The Anchor Church, formerly Revival Tabernacle, located in the Oak Park area of San Diego. It was initially established as a Bible study group under the direction of Pastors Karlton Edison and Vince Larson in 2007. During this time the group met in the Downtown San Diego area, in locations which varied from restaurants to hotels to coffee houses until its first Sunday Gathering in a nightclub on Easter Sunday, 2008.\n\nAnchor Gaslamp was a nondenominational church, whose doctrinal view was in alignment with the Nicene Creed. They are now called New City Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "13094915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13094915", "title": "Ascwulf", "text": "Ascwulf\n\nAscwulf (or Æscwulf ) was a medieval Bishop of Dunwich. He was bishop in the 8th century, but it is not known exactly when he was consecrated or his date of death.\n"}
{"id": "38356598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38356598", "title": "Beatrice Bolam", "text": "Beatrice Bolam\n\nBeatrice Bolam (\"née\" Patterson; August 1919 – 2 January 2013) was an English politician and councillor for Jarrow, South Tyneside. \n\nBolam was born and raised in Jarrow, the eldest of four children of a boilermaker who worked for Palmers Shipbuilding and Iron Company. She grew up during the Great Depression and her family struggled after her father lost his job in Palmer's collapse. Educated at Jarrow Grammar School, she then attended Skerry's College in Newcastle until 1937, training for a career in the civil service.\n\nIn 1942, she married Oswald James Bolam, a bookkeeper in the shipyards, and took the name Bolam.\n\nBolam became a member of the Conservative Party in 1939. The next year, she was made vice chairman of the Jarrow Imperial League. She worked as a civil servant until 1942, when she returned to Jarrow Grammar School to become secretary to the headmaster. In 1945, at age 26, she became the youngest member in history of the Jarrow Town Council. In 1953, she was elected to serve as the representative for Jarrow on Durham County Council, defeating a Labour Party member to take the role. \n\nThat same year, she founded the Jarrow branch of the Young Conservatives and assisted Stanley Holmes (later Baron Dovercourt) in the general election. In 1947, she volunteered at the Jarrow by-election when William Scott stood as the Conservative candidate.\n\nIn 1947, she left the grammar school to devote her life full time to politics, which was taking up more of her time. In the 1950 and 1951 general elections she was a housewife when she contested Houghton-le-Spring, but was defeated both times by Billy Blyton of the Labour party.\n\nShe earned a reputation as a strong speaker, and served on many committees and speakers' panels. She held various positions within the Jarrow Conservative Association, including chair twice and treasurer.\n\nIn the 1973 New Year Honours, Bolam was appointed MBE for political and public services in the North of England. She also received an award for being one of the longest-serving members of the Conservative Party in the UK.\n\nBolam died at age 93 in South Shields, Tyne and Wear and was survived by her brother Alan Patterson.\n"}
{"id": "1407917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1407917", "title": "Boiorix", "text": "Boiorix\n\nBoiorix was a king of the Cimbri tribe during the Cimbrian War. His most notable achievement was the victory against the Romans at the Battle of Arausio in 105 BC. He was later defeated and slain along with Lugius at the Battle of Vercellae in 101 BC. The other Cimbrian chiefs Claodicus and Caesorix were captured.\n"}
{"id": "712306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712306", "title": "Catafalque", "text": "Catafalque\n\nA catafalque is a raised bier, box, or similar platform, often movable, that is used to support the casket, coffin, or body of the deceased during a Christian funeral or memorial service. Following a Roman Catholic Requiem Mass, a catafalque may be used to stand in place of the body at the absolution of the dead or used during Masses of the Dead and All Souls' Day.\n\nAccording to Peter Stanford, the term originates from the Italian ', which means scaffolding. However, the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" says the word is \"[o]f unknown derivation; even the original form is uncertain; French pointing to or , Italian to , Spanish to .\" The most notable Italian catafalque was the one designed for Michelangelo by his fellow artists in 1564. An elaborate and highly decorated roofed surround for a catafalque, common for grand funerals of the Baroque era, may be called a '.\n\nLarge processions have followed the catafalques of Popes. The households of the cardinals carried the catafalque of Pope Sixtus V in 1590. The bier, decorated with gold cloth, was followed by \"confraternities, religious orders, students of seminaries and colleges, orphans and mendicants\". In 1963, a million people filed past the catafalque of Pope John XXIII, which had been carried in procession to St. Peter's Basilica in Rome.\n\nOther than religious leaders such as Popes, famous people have lain in state or been carried in procession to their burial place on a catafalque.\n\nThirteen years after his death, the remains of Voltaire were transferred on a catafalque to the Panthéon in Paris, a building dedicated to the great men of the French nation. It bore the inscription: \"Poet, philosopher, historian, he made a great step forward in the human spirit. He prepared us to become free.\"\n\nThe Lincoln catafalque, first used for United States President Abraham Lincoln's funeral in 1865, has been used for all those who have lain in state in the Capitol Rotunda since Lincoln's death. When not in use, the catafalque is kept on display in the Exhibition Hall at the United States Capitol Visitor Center. It was used for Antonin Scalia, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, in 2016. Commentators noted that the structure of the original pine timbers and boards has been reinforced, albeit being left 'original'.\n\n"}
{"id": "31398393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31398393", "title": "Causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving", "text": "Causing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving\n\nCausing bodily harm by wanton or furious driving is a statutory offence in England and Wales and Northern Ireland. It has been abolished in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThis offence is created by section 35 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (drivers of carriages injuring persons by furious driving):\n\nThis section is printed as amended by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948 and of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1953.\n\nThis section was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by section 70(a) of the Road Traffic Act 2010. In the Republic of Ireland, a person liable to be charged an offence under section 53 of the Road Traffic Act, 1961 was not liable, by reference to the same occurrence, to be charged with an offence under this section.\n\n\"Misdemeanour\"\n\nThe reference to a misdemeanour must now be construed as a reference to an offence.\n\n\"Bodily harm\"\n\nSee bodily harm\n\nIn England and Wales, this offence is now used to prosecute:\n\nIt was used in 2009 to prosecute a death caused by a cyclist collision, which would have fallen outside other laws as it is the closest equivalent to dangerous driving for cyclists. It was used again in 2017 for similar reasons.\n\nIn England and Wales, this is an indictable-only offence.\n\nIn England and Wales, this offence is punishable with imprisonment for any term not exceeding two years, as it is in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe offence of attempting to cause bodily harm by wanton driving requires an intent to cause bodily harm.\n\nUnited Kingdom traffic laws\n"}
{"id": "5561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5561", "title": "Computational linguistics", "text": "Computational linguistics\n\nComputational linguistics is an interdisciplinary field concerned with the statistical or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective, as well as the study of appropriate computational approaches to linguistic questions.\n\nTraditionally, computational linguistics was performed by computer scientists who had specialized in the application of computers to the processing of a natural language. Today, computational linguists often work as members of interdisciplinary teams, which can include regular linguists, experts in the target language, and computer scientists. In general, computational linguistics draws upon the involvement of linguists, computer scientists, experts in artificial intelligence, mathematicians, logicians, philosophers, cognitive scientists, cognitive psychologists, psycholinguists, anthropologists and neuroscientists, among others.\n\nComputational linguistics has theoretical and applied components. Theoretical computational linguistics focuses on issues in theoretical linguistics and cognitive science, and applied computational linguistics focuses on the practical outcome of modeling human language use.\n\nThe Association for Computational Linguistics defines computational linguistics as:\nComputational linguistics is often grouped within the field of artificial intelligence, but actually was present before the development of artificial intelligence. Computational linguistics originated with efforts in the United States in the 1950s to use computers to automatically translate texts from foreign languages, particularly Russian scientific journals, into English. Since computers can make arithmetic calculations much faster and more accurately than humans, it was thought to be only a short matter of time before they could also begin to process language. Computational and quantitative methods are also used historically in attempted reconstruction of earlier forms of modern languages and subgrouping modern languages into language families. Earlier methods such as lexicostatistics and glottochronology have been proven to be premature and inaccurate. However, recent interdisciplinary studies which borrow concepts from biological studies, especially gene mapping, have proved to produce more sophisticated analytical tools and more trustworthy results.\n\nWhen machine translation (also known as mechanical translation) failed to yield accurate translations right away, automated processing of human languages was recognized as far more complex than had originally been assumed. Computational linguistics was born as the name of the new field of study devoted to developing algorithms and software for intelligently processing language data. The term \"computational linguistics\" itself was first coined by David Hays, founding member of both the Association for Computational Linguistics and the International Committee on Computational Linguistics. When artificial intelligence came into existence in the 1960s, the field of computational linguistics became that sub-division of artificial intelligence dealing with human-level comprehension and production of natural languages.\n\nIn order to translate one language into another, it was observed that one had to understand the grammar of both languages, including both morphology (the grammar of word forms) and syntax (the grammar of sentence structure). In order to understand syntax, one had to also understand the semantics and the lexicon (or 'vocabulary'), and even something of the pragmatics of language use. Thus, what started as an effort to translate between languages evolved into an entire discipline devoted to understanding how to represent and process natural languages using computers.\n\nNowadays research within the scope of computational linguistics is done at computational linguistics departments, computational linguistics laboratories, computer science departments, and linguistics departments. \nSome research in the field of computational linguistics aims to create working speech or text processing systems while others aim to create a system allowing human-machine interaction. Programs meant for human-machine communication are called conversational agents.\n\nJust as computational linguistics can be performed by experts in a variety of fields and through a wide assortment of departments, so too can the research fields broach a diverse range of topics. The following sections discuss some of the literature available across the entire field broken into four main area of discourse: developmental linguistics, structural linguistics, linguistic production, and linguistic comprehension.\n\nLanguage is a cognitive skill which develops throughout the life of an individual. This developmental process has been examined using a number of techniques, and a computational approach is one of them. Human language development does provide some constraints which make it harder to apply a computational method to understanding it. For instance, during language acquisition, human children are largely only exposed to positive evidence. This means that during the linguistic development of an individual, only evidence for what is a correct form is provided, and not evidence for what is not correct. This is insufficient information for a simple hypothesis testing procedure for information as complex as language, and so provides certain boundaries for a computational approach to modeling language development and acquisition in an individual.\n\nAttempts have been made to model the developmental process of language acquisition in children from a computational angle, leading to both statistical grammars and connectionist models. Work in this realm has also been proposed as a method to explain the evolution of language through history. Using models, it has been shown that languages can be learned with a combination of simple input presented incrementally as the child develops better memory and longer attention span. This was simultaneously posed as a reason for the long developmental period of human children. Both conclusions were drawn because of the strength of the artificial neural network which the project created.\n\nThe ability of infants to develop language has also been modeled using robots in order to test linguistic theories. Enabled to learn as children might, a model was created based on an affordance model in which mappings between actions, perceptions, and effects were created and linked to spoken words. Crucially, these robots were able to acquire functioning word-to-meaning mappings without needing grammatical structure, vastly simplifying the learning process and shedding light on information which furthers the current understanding of linguistic development. It is important to note that this information could only have been empirically tested using a computational approach.\n\nAs our understanding of the linguistic development of an individual within a lifetime is continually improved using neural networks and learning robotic systems, it is also important to keep in mind that languages themselves change and develop through time. Computational approaches to understanding this phenomenon have unearthed very interesting information. Using the Price Equation and Pólya urn dynamics, researchers have created a system which not only predicts future linguistic evolution, but also gives insight into the evolutionary history of modern-day languages. This modeling effort achieved, through computational linguistics, what would otherwise have been impossible.\n\nIt is clear that the understanding of linguistic development in humans as well as throughout evolutionary time has been fantastically improved because of advances in computational linguistics. The ability to model and modify systems at will affords science an ethical method of testing hypotheses that would otherwise be intractable.\n\nIn order to create better computational models of language, an understanding of language’s structure is crucial. To this end, the English language has been meticulously studied using computational approaches to better understand how the language works on a structural level. One of the most important pieces of being able to study linguistic structure is the availability of large linguistic corpora, or samples. This grants computational linguists the raw data necessary to run their models and gain a better understanding of the underlying structures present in the vast amount of data which is contained in any single language. One of the most cited English linguistic corpora is the Penn Treebank. Derived from widely-different sources, such as IBM computer manuals and transcribed telephone conversations, this corpus contains over 4.5 million words of American English. This corpus has been primarily annotated using part-of-speech tagging and syntactic bracketing and has yielded substantial empirical observations related to language structure.\n\nTheoretical approaches to the structure of languages have also been developed. These works allow computational linguistics to have a framework within which to work out hypotheses that will further the understanding of the language in a myriad of ways. One of the original theoretical theses on internalization of grammar and structure of language proposed two types of models. In these models, rules or patterns learned increase in strength with the frequency of their encounter. The work also created a question for computational linguists to answer: how does an infant learn a specific and non-normal grammar (Chomsky Normal Form) without learning an overgeneralized version and getting stuck? Theoretical efforts like these set the direction for research to go early in the lifetime of a field of study, and are crucial to the growth of the field.\n\nStructural information about languages allows for the discovery and implementation of similarity recognition between pairs of text utterances. For instance, it has recently been proven that based on the structural information present in patterns of human discourse, conceptual recurrence plots can be used to model and visualize trends in data and create reliable measures of similarity between natural textual utterances. This technique is a strong tool for further probing the structure of human discourse. Without the computational approach to this question, the vastly complex information present in discourse data would have remained inaccessible to scientists.\n\nInformation regarding the structural data of a language is available for English as well as other languages, such as Japanese. Using computational methods, Japanese sentence corpora were analyzed and a pattern of log-normality was found in relation to sentence length. Though the exact cause of this lognormality remains unknown, it is precisely this sort of intriguing information which computational linguistics is designed to uncover. This information could lead to further important discoveries regarding the underlying structure of Japanese, and could have any number of effects on the understanding of Japanese as a language. Computational linguistics allows for very exciting additions to the scientific knowledge base to happen quickly and with very little room for doubt.\n\nWithout a computational approach to the structure of linguistic data, much of the information that is available now would still be hidden under the vastness of data within any single language. Computational linguistics allows scientists to parse huge amounts of data reliably and efficiently, creating the possibility for discoveries unlike any seen in most other approaches.\n\nThe production of language is equally as complex in the information it provides and the necessary skills which a fluent producer must have. That is to say, comprehension is only half the problem of communication. The other half is how a system produces language, and computational linguistics has made some very interesting discoveries in this area.\n\nIn a now famous paper published in 1950 Alan Turing proposed the possibility that machines might one day have the ability to \"think\". As a thought experiment for what might define the concept of thought in machines, he proposed an \"imitation test\" in which a human subject has two text-only conversations, one with a fellow human and another with a machine attempting to respond like a human. Turing proposes that if the subject cannot tell the difference between the human and the machine, it may be concluded that the machine is capable of thought. Today this test is known as the Turing test and it remains an influential idea in the area of artificial intelligence.\n\nSome projects are still trying to solve the problem which first started computational linguistics off as its own field in the first place. However, the methods have become more refined and clever, and consequently the results generated by computational linguists have become more enlightening. In an effort to improve computer translation, several models have been compared, including hidden Markov models, smoothing techniques, and the specific refinements of those to apply them to verb translation. The model which was found to produce the most natural translations of German and French words was a refined alignment model with a first-order dependence and a fertility model[16]. They also provide efficient training algorithms for the models presented, which can give other scientists the ability to improve further on their results. This type of work is specific to computational linguistics, and has applications which could vastly improve understanding of how language is produced and comprehended by computers.\n\nWork has also been done in making computers produce language in a more naturalistic manner. Using linguistic input from humans, algorithms have been constructed which are able to modify a system's style of production based on a factor such as linguistic input from a human, or more abstract factors like politeness or any of the five main dimensions of personality. This work takes a computational approach via parameter estimation models to categorize the vast array of linguistic styles we see across individuals and simplify it for a computer to work in the same way, making human-computer interaction much more natural.\n\nMany of the earliest and simplest models of human-computer interaction, such as ELIZA for example, involve a text-based input from the user to generate a response from the computer. By this method, words typed by a user trigger the computer to recognize specific patterns and reply accordingly, through a process known as keyword spotting.\n\nRecent technologies have placed more of an emphasis on speech-based interactive systems. These systems, such as Siri of the iOS operating system, operate on a similar pattern-recognizing technique as that of text-based systems, but with the former, the user input is conducted through speech recognition. This branch of linguistics involves the processing of the user's speech as sound waves and the interpreting of the acoustics and language patterns in order for the computer to recognize the input.\n\nMuch of the focus of modern computational linguistics is on comprehension. With the proliferation of the internet and the abundance of easily accessible written human language, the ability to create a program capable of understanding human language would have many broad and exciting possibilities, including improved search engines, automated customer service, and online education.\n\nEarly work in comprehension included applying Bayesian statistics to the task of optical character recognition, as illustrated by Bledsoe and Browing in 1959 in which a large dictionary of possible letters were generated by \"learning\" from example letters and then the probability that any one of those learned examples matched the new input was combined to make a final decision. Other attempts at applying Bayesian statistics to language analysis included the work of Mosteller and Wallace (1963) in which an analysis of the words used in \"The Federalist Papers\" was used to attempt to determine their authorship (concluding that Madison most likely authored the majority of the papers).\n\nIn 1971 Terry Winograd developed an early natural language processing engine capable of interpreting naturally written commands within a simple rule governed environment. The primary language parsing program in this project was called SHRDLU, which was capable of carrying out a somewhat natural conversation with the user giving it commands, but only within the scope of the toy environment designed for the task. This environment consisted of different shaped and colored blocks, and SHRDLU was capable of interpreting commands such as \"Find a block which is taller than the one you are holding and put it into the box.\" and asking questions such as \"I don't understand which pyramid you mean.\" in response to the user's input. While impressive, this kind of natural language processing has proven much more difficult outside the limited scope of the toy environment. Similarly a project developed by NASA called LUNAR was designed to provide answers to naturally written questions about the geological analysis of lunar rocks returned by the Apollo missions. These kinds of problems are referred to as question answering.\n\nInitial attempts at understanding spoken language were based on work done in the 1960s and 1970s in signal modeling where an unknown signal is analyzed to look for patterns and to make predictions based on its history. An initial and somewhat successful approach to applying this kind of signal modeling to language was achieved with the use of hidden Markov models as detailed by Rabiner in 1989. This approach attempts to determine probabilities for the arbitrary number of models that could be being used in generating speech as well as modeling the probabilities for various words generated from each of these possible models. Similar approaches were employed in early speech recognition attempts starting in the late 70s at IBM using word/part-of-speech pair probabilities.\n\nMore recently these kinds of statistical approaches have been applied to more difficult tasks such as topic identification using Bayesian parameter estimation to infer topic probabilities in text documents.\n\nModern computational linguistics is often a combination of studies in computer science and programming, math, particularly statistics, language structures, and natural language processing. Combined, these fields most often lead to the development of systems that can recognize speech and perform some task based on that speech. Examples include speech recognition software, such as Apple's Siri feature, spellcheck tools, speech synthesis programs, which are often used to demonstrate pronunciation or help the disabled, and machine translation programs and websites, such as Google Translate.\n\nComputational linguistics can be especially helpful in situations involving social media and the Internet. For example, filters in chatrooms or on website searches require computational linguistics. Chat operators often use filters to identify certain words or phrases and deem them inappropriate so that users cannot submit them. Another example of using filters is on websites. Schools use filters so that websites with certain keywords are blocked from children to view. There are also many programs in which parents use Parental controls to put content filters in place. Computational linguists can also develop programs that group and organize content through Social media mining. An example of this is Twitter, in which programs can group tweets by subject or keywords. Computational linguistics is also used for document retrieval and clustering. When you do an online search, documents and websites are retrieved based on the frequency of unique labels related to what you typed into a search engine. For instance, if you search \"red, large, four-wheeled vehicle,\" with the intention of finding pictures of a red truck, the search engine will still find the information desired by matching words such as \"four-wheeled\" with \"car\".\n\nComputational linguistics can be divided into major areas depending upon the medium of the language being processed, whether spoken or textual; and upon the task being performed, whether analyzing language (recognition) or synthesizing language (generation).\n\nSpeech recognition and speech synthesis deal with how spoken language can be understood or created using computers. Parsing and generation are sub-divisions of computational linguistics dealing respectively with taking language apart and putting it together. Machine translation remains the sub-division of computational linguistics dealing with having computers translate between languages. The possibility of automatic language translation, however, has yet to be realized and remains a notoriously hard branch of computational linguistics.\n\nSome of the areas of research that are studied by computational linguistics include:\n\nThe subject of computational linguistics has had a recurring impact on popular culture:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17843837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17843837", "title": "Corporate security", "text": "Corporate security\n\nCorporate security identifies and effectively mitigates or manages, at an early stage, any developments that may threaten the resilience and continued survival of a corporation. It is a corporate function that oversees and manages the close coordination of all functions within the company that are concerned with security, continuity and safety.\n\nGlobalisation has changed the structure and pace of corporate life; the saturation of traditional markets is taking companies to more risky places; the shift towards a knowledge economy is eroding the importance of ‘place’ in the business world; new business practices such as offshoring challenge companies to manage at a distance; and new forms of accountability, such as corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, put added pressure on companies to match their words with deeds, wherever they are operating.\n\nAt the same time, security risks have become more complex, too. Many of the threats, such as terrorism, organised crime and information security, are asymmetric and networked, making them more difficult to manage. There is also greater appreciation of the interdependence between a company’s risk portfolio and the way it does business: certain types of behavior can enhance or undermine an organization’s ‘licence to operate’, and in some cases this can generate risks that would not otherwise exist. As a result, security has a higher profile in the corporate world today than it did five years ago. Companies are looking for new ways to manage these risks and the portfolio of the security department has widened to include shared responsibility for things such as reputation, corporate governance and regulation, corporate social responsibility and information assurance.\n\nThere are six characteristics of alignment between security and the business:\n\nCore elements of Corporate Security are:\n\nFor many years corporate security has been dominated by a ‘defensive’ approach, focused on protection and loss prevention. The head of security was seen as little more than the ‘guard at the gate’, someone whose actions invariably stopped people doing their jobs instead of enabling the business to function more effectively. Typically, heads of security came from a narrow talent pool, namely police, armed forces or intelligence.\n\nThere are many reasons companies tend to recruit security managers from these backgrounds. The police and\narmed forces churn out individuals with intensive training in the practice of security and protection, and have hands-on experience that is rarely available elsewhere. There are a number of reasons greater diversity is essential within the corporate security function.\n\nFor security to be aligned with the business, security managers must understand the business and how they contribute towards its objectives.\n\nThe Chief Security Officer (CSO) is the corporation's top executive who is responsible for security. The CSO serves as the business leader responsible for the development, implementation and management of the organization’s corporate security vision, strategy and programs. They direct staff in identifying, developing, implementing and maintaining security processes across the organization to reduce risks, respond to incidents, and limit exposure to liability in all areas of financial, physical, and personal risk; establish appropriate standards and risk controls associated with intellectual property; and direct the establishment and implementation of policies and procedures related to data security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51987413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51987413", "title": "Craspedoporus elegans", "text": "Craspedoporus elegans\n\nCraspedoporus elegans is an extinct marine species of diatoms from a deposit from Oamaru, Otago, New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "6494435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6494435", "title": "Curing (food preservation)", "text": "Curing (food preservation)\n\nCuring is any of various food preservation and flavoring processes of foods such as meat, fish and vegetables, by the addition of combinations of salt, nitrates, nitrites, or sugar, with the aim of drawing moisture out of the food by the process of osmosis. Many curing processes also involve smoking, spicing, or cooking. Dehydration was the earliest form of food curing. Because curing increases the solute concentration in the food and hence decreases its water potential, the food becomes inhospitable for the microbe growth that causes food spoilage. Curing can be traced back to antiquity, and was the primary way of preserving meat and fish until the late 19th century.\n\nNitrates and nitrites, in conjunction with salt, are the most common agents in curing meat, because they further inhibit the growth of \"Clostridium botulinum.\" This combination of table salt with nitrates or nitrites is called curing salt and is often dyed pink to distinguish it from table salt. Neither table salt, nor any of the nitrites or nitrates commonly used in curing (e.g. sodium nitrate, sodium nitrite, and potassium nitrate) is naturally pink.\n\nMeat preservation in general (of meat from livestock, game, and poultry) is the set of all treatment processes for preserving the properties, taste, texture, and color of raw, partially cooked, or cooked meats while keeping them edible and safe to consume. Curing has been the dominant method of meat preservation for thousands of years, although modern developments like refrigeration and synthetic preservatives are now beginning to complement and supplant it.\n\nWhile meat preservation processes like curing were mainly developed in order to prevent disease and increase food security, the advent of modern preservation methods mean that in most developed countries today, curing is instead mainly practised for its cultural value and desirable impact on the texture and taste of food. For lesser-developed countries, curing remains a key process in ensuring the viability of meat production, transport and access.\n\nUntreated meat decomposes rapidly if it is not preserved, at a speed that depends on several factors, including ambient humidity, temperature, and the presence of pathogens. Most meats cannot be kept at room temperature in excess of a few days without spoiling.\n\nIf kept in excess of this time, meat begins to change color and exude a foul odor, indicating the decomposition of the food. Ingestion of such spoiled meat can cause serious food poisonings, like botulism.\n\nWhile the short shelf life of fresh meat does not pose a significant problem when access to it is easy and supply is abundant, in times of scarcity and famine, or when the meat must be carried over long voyages, it spoils very quickly. In such circumstances the usefulness of preserving foods containing nutritional value for transport and storage is obvious.\n\nCuring can significantly extend the life of meat before it spoils, by making it inhospitable to the growth of spoilage microbes.\n\nA survival technique since prehistory, the preservation of meat has become, over the centuries, a topic of political, economic, and social importance worldwide.\n\nFood curing dates back to ancient times, both in the form of smoked meat and salt-cured meat.\n\nSeveral sources describe the salting of meat in the ancient Mediterranean world. Diodore of Sicily in his \"Bibliotheca historica\" wrote that the Cosséens in the mountains of Persia salted the flesh of carnivorous animals. Strabo indicates that people at Borsippa were catching bats and salting them to eat. The ancient Greeks prepared \"tarichos\" (), which was meat and fish conserved by salt or other means. The Romans called this dish \"\" – which term later included salted fat, the sauces and spices used for its preparation.\nAlso evidence of ancient sausage production exists. The Roman gourmet Apicius speaks of a sausage-making technique involving ' (a mixture of the fermented fish sauce with oil or wine). Preserved meats were furthermore a part of religious traditions: resulting meat for offerings to the gods was salted before being given to priests, after which it could be picked up again by the offerer, or even sold in the butcher's.\n\nA trade in salt meat occurred across ancient Europe. In Polybius's time, the Gauls exported salt pork each year to Rome in large quantities, where it was sold in different cuts: rear cuts, middle cuts, hams, and sausages. This meat, after having been salted with the greatest care, was sometime smoked. These goods had to have been considerably important, since they fed part of the Roman people and the armies. The Belgae were celebrated above all for the care which they gave to the fattening of their pigs. Their herds of sheep and pigs were so many, they could provide skins and salt meat not only for Rome, but also for most of Italy. The Ceretani of Spain drew a large export income from their hams, which were so succulent, they were in no way inferior to those of Cantabria. These \"\" of pig would become especially sought, to the point that the ancients considered this meat the most nourishing of all and the easiest to digest.\n\nIn Ethiopia, according to Pliny, and in Libya according to Saint Jerome, the Acridophages (literally, the locust-eaters) salted and smoked the crickets which arrived at their settlements in the spring in great swarms and which constituted, it was said, their sole food.\n\nThe smoking of meat was a traditional practice in North America, where Plains Indians hung their meat at the top of their tipis to increase the amount of smoke coming into contact with the food.\n\nIn Europe, medieval cuisine made great use of meat and vegetables, and the guild of butchers was amongst the most powerful. During the 12th century, salt beef was consumed by all social classes. Smoked meat was called \"carbouclée\" in Romance tongues and \"bacon\" if it was pork.\n\nThe Middle Ages made pâté a masterpiece: that which is, in the 21st century, merely spiced minced meat (or fish), baked in a terrine and eaten cold, was at that time composed of a dough envelope stuffed with varied meats and superbly decorated for ceremonial feasts. The first French recipe, written in verse by Gace de La Bigne, mentions in the same pâté three great partridges, six fat quail, and a dozen larks. \"Le Ménagier de Paris\" mentions pâtés of fish, game, young rabbit, fresh venison, beef, pigeons, mutton, veal, and pork, and even pâtés of lark, turtledove, cow, baby bird, goose, and hen. Bartolomeo Sacchi, called Platine, prefect of the Vatican Library, gives the recipe for a pâté of wild beasts: the flesh, after being boiled with salt and vinegar, was larded and placed inside an envelope of spiced fat, with a \"mélange\" of pepper, cinnamon and pounded lard; one studded the fat with cloves until it was entirely covered, then placed it inside a pâte.\n\nIn the 16th century, the most fashionable pâtés were of woodcock, au bec doré, chapon, beef tongue, cow feet, sheep feet, chicken, veal, and venison. In the same era, Pierre Belon notes that the inhabitants of Crete and Chios lightly salted then oven-dried entire hares, sheep, and roe deer cut into pieces, and that in Turkey, cattle and sheep, cut and minced rouelles, salted then dried, were eaten on voyages with onions and no other preparation.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, salt meat was one of the main foods for sailors on long voyages, for instance in the merchant marine or the navy. In the 18th century, salted Irish beef, transported in barrels, was considered finest.\n\nScientific research on meat by chemists and pharmacists led to the creation of a new, extremely practical product: meat extract, which could appear in different forms. The need to properly feed soldiers during long campaigns outside the country, such as the Napoleonic Wars, and to nourish a constantly growing population often living in appalling conditions drove scientific research, but a confectioner, Nicolas Appert, in 1795 developed through experimentation a method which would become universal and in one language bears his name: airtight storage, called \"\" in French.\n\nWith the spread of \"appertisation\", the 19th-century world entered the era of the \"food industry\", which developed new products such as canned salt meat (for example corned beef), but also led to lowered standards of food quality and hygiene – such as those Upton Sinclair described in \"The Jungle\". These bad practices led to the creation of the Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906, followed by the national agencies for health security and the establishment of food traceability over the course of the 20th century. It also led to continuing technological innovation.\n\nIn France, the summer of 1857 was so hot that most butchers refused to slaughter animals and charcutiers lost considerable amounts of meat, due to inadequate conservation methods. A member of the Academy of Medicine and his son issued a 34-page summary of works printed between 1663 and 1857, which proposed some solutions: not less than 91 texts exist, of which 64 edited for only the years between 1851 and 1857.\n\nSalt (sodium chloride) is the primary ingredient used in meat curing. Removal of water and addition of salt to meat creates a solute-rich environment where osmotic pressure draws water out of microorganisms, slowing down their growth. Doing this requires a concentration of salt of nearly 20%. In addition, salt causes the soluble proteins to come to the surface of the meat that was used to make the sausages. These proteins coagulate when the sausage is heated, helping to hold the sausage together.\n\nThe sugar added to meat for the purpose of curing it comes in many forms, including honey, corn syrup solids, and maple syrup. However, with the exception of bacon, it does not contribute much to the flavor, but it does alleviate the harsh flavor of the salt. Sugar also contributes to the growth of beneficial bacteria such as \"Lactobacillus\" by feeding them.\n\nNitrates and nitrites not only help kill bacteria, but also produce a characteristic flavor and give meat a pink or red color. Nitrite () is generally supplied by sodium nitrite or (indirectly) by potassium nitrate. Nitrite salts are most often used in curing. Nitrate is specifically used only in a few curing conditions and products where nitrite (which may be generated from nitrate) must be generated in the product over long periods of time.\n\nNitrite further breaks down in the meat into nitric oxide (NO), which then binds to the iron atom in the center of myoglobin's heme group, reducing oxidation and causing a reddish-brown color (nitrosomyoglobin) when raw and the characteristic cooked-ham pink color (nitrosohemochrome or nitrosyl-heme) when cooked. The addition of ascorbate to cured meat reduces formation of nitrosamines (see below), but increases the nitrosylation of iron.\n\nThe use of nitrite and nitrate salts for meat in the US has been formally used since 1925. Because of the relatively high toxicity of nitrite (the lethal dose in humans is about 22 mg/kg of body weight), the maximum allowed nitrite concentration in meat products is 200 ppm. Plasma nitrite is reduced in persons with endothelial dysfunction.\n\nThe use of nitrites in food preservation is controversial due to the potential for the formation of nitrosamines when nitrites are present in high concentrations and the product is cooked at high temperatures. The effect is seen for red or processed meat, but not for white meat or fish. Nitrates and nitrites may cause cancer and the production of carcinogenic nitrosamines can be potently inhibited by the use of the antioxidants Vitamin C and the alpha-tocopherol form of Vitamin E during curing. Under simulated gastric conditions, nitrosothiols rather than nitrosamines are the main nitroso species being formed. The use of either compound is therefore regulated; for example, in the United States, the concentration of nitrates and nitrites is generally limited to 200 ppm or lower. While the meat industry considers them irreplaceable because of their low cost and efficacy at maintaining color, botulism is an extremely rare disease (less than 1000 cases reported worldwide per year), and almost always associated with home preparations of food storing. Furthermore, while the FDA has set a limit of 200 ppm of nitrates for cured meat, they are not allowed and not recognized as safe in most other foods, even foods that are not cooked at high temperatures, such as cheese.\n\nProcessed meats without \"added nitrites\" may be misleading as they may be using naturally occurring nitrites from celery instead.\n\nMeat can also be preserved by \"smoking\". If the smoke is hot enough to slow-cook the meat, this will also keep it tender. One method of smoking calls for a smokehouse with damp wood chips or sawdust. In North America, hardwoods such as hickory, mesquite, and maple are commonly used for smoking, as are the wood from fruit trees such as apple, cherry, and plum, and even corncobs.\n\nSmoking helps seal the outer layer of the food being cured, making it more difficult for bacteria to enter. It can be done in combination with other curing methods such as salting. Common smoking styles include hot smoking, smoke roasting (pit barbecuing) and cold smoking. Smoke roasting and hot smoking cook the meat while cold smoking does not. If the meat is cold smoked, it should be dried quickly to limit bacterial growth during the critical period where the meat is not yet dry. This can be achieved, as with jerky, by slicing the meat thinly.\n\nThe smoking of food directly with wood smoke is known to contaminate the food with carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.\n\nSince the 20th century, with respect to the relationship between diet and human disease (e.g. cardiovascular, etc.), scientists have conducted studies on the effects of lipolysis on vacuum-packed or frozen meat. In particular, by analyzing entrecôtes of frozen beef during 270 days at , scientists found an important phospholipase that accompanies the loss of some unsaturated fat n-3 and n-6, which are already low in the flesh of ruminants.\n\nIn 2015, the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization classified processed meat, that is, meat that has undergone salting, curing, fermenting, or smoking, as \"carcinogenic to humans\".\n\nThe improvement of methods of meat preservation, and of the means of transport of preserved products, has notably permitted the separation of areas of production and areas of consumption, which can now be distant without it posing a problem, permitting the exportation of meats.\n\nFor example, the appearance in the 1980s of preservation techniques under controlled atmosphere sparked a small revolution in the world's market for sheep meat: the lamb of New Zealand, one of the world's largest exporters of lamb, could henceforth be sold as fresh meat, since it could be preserved from 12 to 16 weeks, which would be a sufficient duration for it to reach Europe by boat. Before, meat from New Zealand was frozen, thus had a much lower value on European shelves. With the arrival of the new \"chilled\" meats, New Zealand could compete even more strongly with local producers of fresh meat. The use of controlled atmosphere to avoid the depreciation which affects frozen meat is equally useful in other meat markets, such as that for pork, which now also enjoys an international trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15766519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15766519", "title": "Dragonseeds", "text": "Dragonseeds\n\nDragonseeds, released in Japan as , is a video game where the player must clone a dragon and train it to fight. The player gets to choose from five basic dragon types and two secret dragons. The game also allows the player to receive extra dragons through the saves files of certain games, if the memory card is placed at the second slot. The game also allows a two player mode, where each player can battle each other with their own dragons.\n\nThe whole point of the game is to raise a dragon and have it participate in battle. After acquiring high enough stats the dragons evolve into more powerful forms. There are three elemental types in the game: Fire, aqua, and storm. Fire being basic flame control, Aqua referring to water or ice ability, and Storm refers to electrical powers. Each dragon has an element it is born with, and each species of dragon has certain limitations on how many elements it can be. The elements work in a rock, paper, scissors way of play: Fire being strong against storm, but being weak to water. Storm being strong against water, but weak to fire. Water being strong against fire, but being weak to storm.\nThe goal of the game is to raise a dragon to compete in the Arena with the aim of being the best dragonsage in the land. The higher the rank, the tougher the competition and the more prize money involved. The player can move around the map as needed, but the entirety of the game takes place within a single city. \nThe game supports two player combat as well, with two modes, regular and quick battle. Quick battle allows for pre-registered dragons to be used as opposed to having to raise your own and is comparable to the Battle Now mode of Pokémon Colosseum.\nBattle\n\nThe battles of Dragon Seeds are fought in traditional 1 vs 1 matches, on a semi rotating screen between the player and the challenger's dragons. The battle is fought in turn-based rock, paper, scissors rotations with a timer that counts down during each player's phase of action. The player can command the dragon to either move forward, backward, use a physical or magical attack, defend, or taunt. The player must equip the dragon with a weapon and shield, called a reflector, for the dragon to be able to enter combat. In battle, there are 3 main positions in which the dragon can be in: Close, Mid, and Far range. Each dragon can be at max 2 ranges apart from their opponent. Only at close range can a dragon successfully perform a physical attack. At mid and far ranges, the dragon can perform magical attacks attuned with their element, or taunt. The player must choose correct judgment and a bit of luck to win battles successfully.\n\nDuring battle, if the player anticipates defeat, they have the option to forfeit the match. Forfeiting will cause the player to lose, but will spare their dragon's life. If the dragon's HP reaches 0, it has the possibility of dying. If the player's dragon dies during a battle it will be lost permanently, however if its DNA cell it was last in is empty it might still have the DNA remnants in it and there is a chance it can be re-synthesized to the last point it was in the cell, but it loses the weapons it had.\n\nTypes\n\nThere are 6 different types of dragons: Saurian, Winged, Beetle, Crustacean, Wasp, and Natura, plus two, Spirit and Evil, which are secret and are unlocked after fulfilling special conditions. Out of these types, there are three flavors of dragon per type; called Normal, Super and Mutant, with different appearances. For example, the Saurian dragons can come in either Red or Blue coloration with slightly different spike orientation. Their evolutions are also affected by which flavor the player receives. \n\nDragons are made by DNA synthesis in a genetics lab. This is done by choosing a dragon type and then combining given phrases to specify the element/stats. Certain phrases give more power than others, or rather produce more specialized effects. They can also determine what flavor of dragon type the player receives. \nThere are four evolutions generally, from Baby, to Adult, Senior, then Old. The dragon will cocoon itself for a small amount of time when undergoing each transformation. However, each type of dragon also has the potential to undergo a fifth evolution to become a \"mutant dragon\" which is uber but will die in a short while or the ultimate legendary sixth evolution to a \"super dragon\", which is described as a status where the dragon becomes immortal, and ceases to age. Dragons of this caliber are far from their traditional forms, mostly resembling humanoid spirits. They are encountered in the game's top tier battles.\nAs a bonus, the game allows for memory card synthesis of dragons. If the player has another memory card inserted into the second slot with save data from certain PlayStation games (such as \"Tekken 3\", \"Croc\", or \"Crash Bandicoot 2\") they can then enter a corresponding code in game to receive a special dragon.\n\nThe Story begins in an unknown world (supposedly Earth) where scientists have discovered an unknown remnant of DNA with no classification. Several years later they identify it and call it a \"dragon\". Soon after, an entire dragon is successfully cloned from the remnant. Dragons are mass-produced via cloning labs, and dragon sparring has become a popular sport. The player is shown a picture of Warm City, the player's new home, and has supposedly come to this city to make a name for themselves in the sport of dragon battling.\n\nWhen the player starts the game, they are introduced to the battle system via a story relevant tutorial. The player receives a saurian dragon pre-equipped with a weapon and a reflector. A powerful dragonsage comes by and shows the player character his dragon and asks to spar. He doesn't take no for an answer. It is impossible to defeat this dragon and as a result the player's dragon dies. You can then go to the Cloning Lab and are able to raise as many dragons as you want. The goal of the game is to win in tournaments and get up to the highest rank to defeat the man who first defeated you. Winning in tournaments gives the player money, prestige, and access to better equipment as well. Inside this world, there is an in-game clock and calendar that changes with time passed in the various locations on the map. The day begins at 6 AM and ends at 9 PM, when the player is assumed to sleep. Shops and tourneys close at certain times of the day, so there is a limit on how much the player can accomplish in one day. Tourneys end at 3 PM, and each tourney depending on the rank challenged could take up at least 3 hours of in game time. The player can also choose to speed up time by choosing to sleep at their apartment for a number of hours or a day. There are a few major areas in the city in which the player has access to, each with a notable NPC. They include the cloning lab, an apartment for item and money storage, a weapon/shield shop, the official arena, the junk shop for discount/rare weapons, the sanctuary for capturing/releasing dragons, a training area, and an unofficial arena for battling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325729", "title": "Emergent democracy", "text": "Emergent democracy\n\nEmergent democracy refers to the rise of political structures and behaviors without central planning and by the action of many individual participants, especially when mediated by the Internet. More recently, Clay Shirky has referred to this as \"the power of organizing without organizations.\" The term was coined to stand in contrast to more traditional forms of democracy, such as representational democracy and direct democracy. The phrase draws upon emergence theory for the idea that the simple actions of individuals can collectively create complex and unpredictable results, as when the behavior of termites results in large, efficient nests beyond the comprehension of any individual participant.\n\nIn the paper that first drew attention to the term, Joi Ito expresses a hope that the Internet, as a large and decentralized network, will enable innovative responses by citizens to highly complex problems. From its outset, emergent democracy has been seen arising most clearly among bloggers who, as a decentralized network of writers, can provide a fuller airing and development of ideas than can the relatively limited resources of traditional media. Supporters of the idea point to instances in which bloggers have brought about political change by posting about issues that mainstream media had not paid much attention to. The canonical example of emergent democracy was the December 2002 resignation of Trent Lott as Senate majority leader after bloggers publicized his praising of Strom Thurmond's 1948 segregationist campaign for the presidency.\n\nIto had been vocal about issues with Japanese democracy, and had spoken at Davos about how broken he felt Japanese democracy was. \"Afterwards, Ms. Ogata, the former UN High Commissioner for Refugees told me that I should stop ranting as a Japanese and think more about global democracy and global issues,\" he posted. \"These words stuck with me and last year I tried to think about blogs and emergent democracy outside of the Japanese context.\" \nHe organized a group effort to discuss and document the emergent democracy concept, using a term initially coined by Ross Mayfield. He announced meetings on his weblog, inviting his readers to attend a conference call that was augmented by IRC chat for posting realtime visual cues and backchannel conversation, and a wiki for gathering notes from the call. This \"multimodal\" approach was called a \"happening\" by Ross Mayfield. The conversation resulted in Ito's online article that generated discussions about the potential for weblogs and other social software tools to influence participation in governance. The discussion and notes were captured in a paper that was placed on a wiki for collaborative editing and enhancement. Jon Lebkowsky edited the wiki version, and published it as a chapter in the 2005 book \"Extreme Democracy\". A \"teach-in\" on that topic was held on February 9, 2004 as part of the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference. The emergent democracy paper was incubated within the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies framework along with Tim O'Reilly's \"What is Web 2.0\"; the two can be considered as seminal works that influenced the emergence of today's social web.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56643849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56643849", "title": "Forever (2018 TV series)", "text": "Forever (2018 TV series)\n\nForever is an American comedy-drama web television series created by Alan Yang and Matt Hubbard that premiered on September 14, 2018 on Amazon Video. It stars Fred Armisen and Maya Rudolph, both of whom also executive produce alongside Yang, Hubbard, Dave Becky, and Tim Sarkes.\n\n\"Forever\" follows married couple Oscar and June who \"live a comfortable but predictable life in suburban Riverside, CA. For 12 years they’ve had the same conversations, eaten the same meals and taken pleasant vacations at the same rented lake house. But after June talks Oscar into shaking things up with a ski trip, the pair find themselves in completely unfamiliar territory.\"\n\n\n\n\nOn September 8, 2017, it was announced that Amazon had given the production a straight-to-series order consisting of one season. The series was created by Alan Yang and Matt Hubbard who are set to executive produce the series alongside Fred Armisen, Maya Rudolph, Dave Becky, and Tim Sarkes. Production companies expected to be involved with the series included Universal Television. On December 21, 2017, it was reported that the series was expected to debut in 2018. On August 2, 2018, it was announced that the series would premiere on September 14, 2018.\n\nAlongside the initial series announcement, it was reported that Armisen and Rudolph were cast in the series' lead roles. On December 1, 2017, it was announced that Catherine Keener had joined the series in a recurring role.\n\nOn August 2, 2018, the first trailer and poster for the series were released.\n\nThe series has been met with a positive response from critics upon its premiere. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the first season holds a 94% approval rating, with an average rating of 7.61 out of 10 based on 35 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Forever\" is a gently harrowing and mirthful dive into the ennui of matrimony, elevated by Maya Rudolph's dazzling turn of not-so-quiet desperation.\" Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the season a score of 77 out of 100 based on 20 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14180346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14180346", "title": "Francis Harvey", "text": "Francis Harvey\n\nMajor Francis John William Harvey, VC (29 April 1873 – 31 May 1916) was an officer of the British Royal Marine Light Infantry during the First World War. Harvey was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross, the highest military award for gallantry in the face of the enemy given to British and Commonwealth forces, for his actions at the height of the Battle of Jutland. A long serving Royal Marine officer descended of a military family, during his career Harvey became a specialist in naval artillery, serving on many large warships as gunnery training officer and gun commander. Specially requested for , the flagship of the British battlecruiser fleet, Harvey fought at the battles of Heligoland Bight, Dogger Bank and Jutland.\n\nAt Jutland, Harvey, although mortally wounded by German shellfire, ordered the magazine of Q turret on the battlecruiser \"Lion\" to be flooded. This action prevented the tons of cordite stored there from catastrophically detonating in an explosion that would have destroyed the vessel and all aboard her. Although he succumbed to his injuries seconds later, his dying act may have saved over a thousand lives and prompted Winston Churchill to later comment: \"In the long, rough, glorious history of the Royal Marines there is no name and no deed which in its character and consequences ranks above this\".\n\nHarvey was born in Upper Sydenham, Kent, the son of Commander John William Francis Harvey, RN and Elizabeth Edwards Lavington Harvey \"née\" Penny. At age 11 in 1884, Harvey moved with his family to Southsea and he attended Portsmouth Grammar School, achieving excellent academic results and showing proficiency in languages and debating. Harvey was descended from a military family; his great-great-grandfather John Harvey had been killed in the Glorious First of June in 1794 and his great-grandfather Admiral Sir Edward Harvey, GCB, RN and grandfather Captain John Harvey of the 9th Regiment of Foot were also prominent military figures.\n\nAfter leaving school, Harvey chose a military career and was accepted by both the Royal Military College, Sandhurst and the Royal Naval College, Greenwich for officer training. Choosing the latter school as a Royal Marines officer cadet, Harvey graduated in 1892 and the following year was made a full lieutenant, joining for his first seagoing commission. After just a year at sea, Harvey was back on shore attending gunnery courses at , qualifying in 1896 as an instructor first class in naval gunnery. Harvey was appointed to the cruiser when she was commissioned at Devonport on 8 June 1897 for service on the Pacific Station. In 1898, whilst on the \"Phaëton\", he was reprimanded by the Admiralty for an unfavourable report he released on San Diego Harbour. Returning home the same year, Harvey was given the position of Assistant Instructor for Gunnery at Plymouth Division. During this period, Harvey married Ethel Edye and had one son, John.\n\nBetween 1898 and 1904 Harvey spent much of his time attached to the Channel Fleet, aboard and , practising and instructing in gunnery. On 28 January 1900 he was promoted to captain. In 1903 he was posted aboard , the first of a string of big ship appointments teaching gunnery to the heavy units of the Channel Fleet. By 1909, Harvey had served on , and the new battlecruiser . In 1910 Harvey became Instructor of Gunnery at Chatham Dockyard and the following year was promoted to major, a report on the gunnery school commenting \"Degree of efficiency in Gunnery Establishment at Chatham is very high both as regards general training and attention to detail. Great credit is due all concerned particularly to Major F.J.W. Harvey, the I of G\".\n\nThe strength of this report subsequently gained Harvey a position as senior marine officer aboard , the 27,000 ton flagship of the British battlecruiser fleet. \"Lion\" had eight 13.5-inch guns and Harvey was stationed in an office under Q turret directing their operation and fire. Under her new commander, Rear-Admiral David Beatty, Harvey served as the senior marine officer on board into the First World War, his first military campaign.\n\nHarvey did not have to wait long to see action, seeing combat for the first time at the Battle of Heligoland Bight just weeks into the war. On 28 August 1914, \"Lion\" and her squadron of and , swept into the Heligoland Bight where German and British cruiser forces were already engaged in a bitter struggle. One German cruiser had already been sunk by the time Beatty's force arrived, but the German flagship and cruiser were surprised in the fog and destroyed by heavy calibre shells from Beatty's battlecruisers. German Konteradmiral Leberecht Maass and over 1,000 of his sailors were killed, Harvey's guns scoring several hits on the cruisers.\n\nSix months later, Harvey's guns again caused severe damage to a German force at the Battle of Dogger Bank. Over the previous months, a German battlecruiser squadron under Rear-Admiral Hipper had crossed the North Sea and bombarded British coastal towns on several occasions. On 24 January 1915 another attempt was made, but this time British signals analysts had detected the German movement and using this information the Admiralty dispatched Beatty's force to intercept and destroy them. Beatty and Hipper's squadrons collided at 09:00 and during the engagement that followed, \"Lion\" was left exposed by mis-communication between the ships, which led to engaging the wrong ship, leaving uncovered and so able to fire more accurately. The British flagship was hard pressed until one of \"Lion\"s shots penetrated one of s turrets. A huge explosion destroyed the neighbouring turret as well and killed 160 men, the German flagship only surviving due to the actions of sailor Wilhelm Heidkamp, who wrenched open the water valves to the magazines despite them glowing red hot.\n\n\"Lion\" was badly damaged in the action by shells from the passing and with her engines failing, dropped back to engage the already sinking . Misread signals resulted in the rest of the British fleet returning to support \"Lion\" in this task, allowing the rest of the battered German fleet to retire as the British destroyed the hapless \"Blücher\" and 792 of her crew. Following the battle, Harvey remained aboard \"Lion\" at Rosyth for the whole of 1915 and the first five months of 1916, continuing his gunnery training and preparations for major fleet action. His preparations came to fruition on the last day of May, when the British fleet sailed to engage the main body of the German High Seas Fleet at the Battle of Jutland.\n\nJust after Dogger Bank, Harvey had written to a fellow RMLI officer in describing his experiences:\n\nBeatty's battlecruisers led the British fleet in its attack, casting south into the North Sea to find the enemy during the afternoon of 31 May 1916. At 14:15, scouting cruisers spotted the German vanguard and Beatty closed to attack the enemy with his main force. Given time to prepare, Hipper was ready for Beatty with his battlecruisers in line to face Beatty's approaching ships with their full broadsides. Hipper was also encouraged by the main German battleship fleet under Vice-Admiral Reinhard Scheer, which was steaming northwards close behind him. At 15:45 Beatty came within range of the German fleet and the vanguards engaged one another with their opening fusillades. As the two squadrons closed, the Germans found the range better and faster than the British, who were silhouetted against the sun. As a result, German shells pounded the British ships while the German ships remained untouched for the first 10 minutes of the engagement. During this stage of the battle \"Lion\" was hit by nine shells from . One shell at 16:00 struck the right upper corner of the left hand gun port at the junction of the face plate and the roof, and punched a piece of the 9-inch face plate into the turret before detonating, blowing off the armoured roof of the turret and starting a fire, which a damage control party working from outside the turret fought to put out.\n\nThe initial explosion killed or wounded everyone stationed in the gun house itself. Harvey, despite severe wounds and burns, realised that the shell hoist leading to the ship's main forward magazine was jammed open. With the hatch open, the flash fire would rapidly travel down to the main magazine resulting in an explosion that would tear the ship in two and kill everyone on board. Staggering across the wreckage of the turret, Harvey gave orders down the voice pipe for the magazine doors to be closed and the magazine compartments to be flooded, an action which would prevent the cordite in the magazines detonating. Turning to his sergeant, the one man still standing, Harvey instructed him to proceed to the bridge and give a full report to the ship's captain Ernle Chatfield (a standard drill in damage exercises). Seconds later, Harvey collapsed and died from his wounds. The sergeant went immediately to the bridge and notified the captain of Harvey's actions before being taken below to have his wounds dressed.\n\nAs soon as the turret had been hit the captain had ordered Q magazine doors closed and the magazine flooded, the order passing to the Transmitting Station below the armoured deck where Stoker 1st Class William Yeo was entrusted with passing the order on. The magazine was consequently flooded and locked up within minutes of the hit. However the cordite charges which had fallen down from gun house after the hit were not removed to safety, and there were still ready charges in the working chamber. A large number of crewmen still remained in the shell room, magazine handing room and working chamber. The fire which was thought to have been put out after the hit on the turret gained strength and ignited the remaining cordite charges, setting off a large explosion at 16:28 which killed the turret crewmen, the flame of the explosion reaching as high as the top of the ship's masts. Even with the precautions taken in hand, the magazine doors were later found to be severely buckled – only the seawater in the magazine behind it prevented the blast reaching inside. Other ships of the battlecruiser fleet were less lucky; at about the same time as Harvey's death, was torn to pieces by a series of magazine explosions that claimed 1,013 lives and just minutes after that HMS \"Queen Mary\" exploded \"like a puffball\" in one huge column of grey smoke, killing 1,275 sailors. Hours later during the main battlefleet engagement, Rear-Admiral Horace Hood's flagship was destroyed with 1,032 lives. All three ships were lost as the result of magazine explosions similar to the one narrowly avoided on \"Lion\".\n\nHarvey's charred corpse was taken from the wreckage of Q turret in the aftermath of battle and buried at sea with full honours alongside the other 98 fatal casualties \"Lion\" had suffered. His bravery in the face of certain death did not go unnoticed; he was mentioned by name in Admiral Jellicoe's post-battle dispatch and he was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross. Harvey's widow Ethel was presented with the award at Buckingham Palace by King George V on 15 September 1916. His medal group was later loaned to the Royal Marines Museum, Eastney Barracks by his son Lieutenant-Colonel John Malcolm Harvey of the King's Regiment in 1973. Harvey's name is inscribed on the Chatham Naval Memorial to those with no known grave, administered by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55724068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55724068", "title": "Fudan poisoning case", "text": "Fudan poisoning case\n\nThe Fudan poisoning case was a criminal case tried from 2013 to 2015 in which the suspect Lin Senhao was accused of intentional homicide by poisoning the victim Huang Yang. Lin Senhao's death penalty was executed on December 11, 2015.\n\nOn February 18, 2014, the Second Intermediate People's Court of Shanghai sentenced the defendant, Lin Senhao, to death for intentional homicide, depriving him of political rights for life. Then the defendant decided to appeal. On January 8, 2015, Shanghai High People's Court upheld the original sentence: death penalty for intentional homicide.\n\nThis case was debated in Chinese jurisprudential circle and public opinion at the time of the trial.\n\nLin Senhao and Huang Yang were both graduate students of the medical school of Fudan University. They majored in different medical specialties. Since August 2010, Lin had been checked in to dormitory room 421. One year later, Huang Yang came to live in the dormitory and became Lin's roommate. After that, Lin was angry with Huang for a trivial matter, and gradually developed a grudge against him.\n\nOn March 29, 2013, Lin heard that Huang Yang and other classmates wanted to make fun of other classmates on April Fools' Day.\n\nLin wanted to pull a poisoning prank on Huang Yang and to make him sick.\n\nThe Supreme People's Court was confirmed by review: the defendant Lin Senhao and the victim Huang Yang were graduate students of the same medical university, and lived in the same dormitory. Lin was dissatisfied with the victim Huang because of trifles, and decided to use poison to harm Huang Yang.\n\nOn November 27, 2013, in the courtroom of Shanghai no.2 Intermediate People's Court, Lin Senhao said, on March 31, 2013, he found his classmate LLü Peng and tried to ask him for \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine he used in his experiment. Lin then got the key of laboratory from Lü Peng, then went to the laboratory and took a bottle containing 75 ml of \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine and a syringe containing about 2 ml of the same.\n\nProsecutors accused Lin of infusing at least 30 ml of \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine into the water dispenser, which was more than 10 times the deadly dose for humans.\n\nOn the afternoon of March 31, Lin Senhao borrowed the key from another person. Lin then got into 204 imaging medical laboratory, building 11 of Zhongshan Hospital affiliated to Fudan University, took out the reagent bottle and syringes with the rest of poisonous chemicals \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine stored after the medical animal experiments in 2011, put them into a yellow medical waste bag and took it out of the room.\n\nOn April 11, 2013, the cultural security bureau of the municipal public security bureau answered the incident of Huang Yang's poisoning. Police immediately organized a task force to conduct an investigation. Lin Senhao never told the truth previously, including when he accepted investigation by the police.\n\nAbout 0:00 on April 12, 2013, after the police determined that Lin was a suspect and summoned him, Lin then confessed the fact that he put \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine in the 421 water dispenser.\n\nOn April 12, 2013, Lin was detained by the police.\n\nOn April 16, 2013, Huang Yang died at 3:23 pm after failing to revive. After authentication by forensics, the acute liver necrosis caused by \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine poisoning caused the death by multiple organ failure.\n\nOn April 19, 2013, Shanghai police charged the procuratorate with the arrest of a suspect, Lin, of the \"4·1\" case of Fudan University.\n\nOn April 25, the Huangpu district procuratorate gave the permission to arrest the criminal suspect Lin of the \"4·1\" case of Fudan University.\n\nOn October 30, 2013, Shanghai No.2 Intermediate People's Court received the prosecution of the suspect Lin. The prosecution accused Lin of the crime of intentional homicide using poison.\n\nAt 9:30am on November 27, 2013, Shanghai No.2 Intermediate People's Court held a public hearing of the \"Fudan poisoning case\". In the hearing, the prosecutor alleged that Lin murdered Huang Yang by poisoning intentionally just because of trifles. The means were cruel, and the social harm was heavy. Lin's acts constituted intentional homicide, so prosecutors asked the court to punish Lin severely.\n\nThe defendant Lin Senhao argued that, the motivation of poisoning was just to make fun of Huang Yang on April fool's day. He had no intent to kill Huang Yang. Defenders had no objection of the indictment, but put forward that Lin was indirect intentional homicide, and could confess guilt, should be given a lighter punishment in accordance with the law.\n\nAt 6:15pm on November 27, 2013, the hearing ended. Shanghai No.2 Intermediate People's Court announced the judgment of this case will be pronounced on a date of choice.\n\nOn February 18, 2014, made the first-instance judgment. The defendant, Lin Senhao, was sentenced to death penalty for intentional homicide, and denied political rights for life.\n\nOn February 25, 2014, Lin's lawyer, Tang Zhijian, was formally appointed by Lin Senhao to appeal.\n\nOn January 8, 2015, Shanghai High People's Court announced the original judgment of Lin Senhao poisoning case was affirmed. The second-instance court did not accept the defendant's contention, and said although Lin confessed the guilt after arrest, his means of killing were cruel and the consequences were serious, so Lin couldn't get a lighter punishment. The second-instance sentenced Lin Senhao to death penalty for intentional homicide. According to Criminal Procedure Law, the death penalty sentence of Lin Senhao was submitted to The Supreme People's Court for approval.\n\nOn May 26, 2015, the Supreme People's Court heard Lin Senhao's defence contention. The defender claimed that the second-instance court's sentencing was too heavy. The judge of The Supreme People's Court said the case will be reviewed in accordance with the law.\n\nOn December 9, the \"Fudan poisoning case\" had made new progress. The result of Lin Senhao's death penalty review came out. The Supreme People's court issued the verdict approving Lin Senhao's death penalty.\n\nThe chief justice met Lin's father in the courtroom, and the lawyer said: \"It's the first.\"\n\nThe lawyer of Lin's father, Xie Tonxiang said, on July 28, 2015, by his application and communication, the chief justice agreed the defendant's father, Lin Zunyao's request to meet after asked for instruction superior and careful consideration. Lin Zunyao and the chief justice of Fudan poisoning case exchanged some parts of the case in the courtroom of The Supreme People's Court. Lin Zunyao said, this meeting lasted for hours, the judge and the clerk made a detailed record.\n\nThe lawyer, Xie Tongxiang said, there was no precedent that the chief justice meets the defendant's relatives, \"This is the first time since The Supreme People's Court has repossessed the right to review the death penalty, the judges of the death penalty have met directly with the relatives in the courtroom.\"\n\nOn December 10, 2015, the defendant of Fudan poisoning case, Lin Senhao's father, Lin Zunyao, said he received a notification from the court. The notification said that The Supreme People's Court has approved Lin Senhao's death penalty, and issued the verdict of Lin Senhao's death penalty.\n\nLin Zunyao said: \"My heart breaks, I can't think now.\" He was told by The Supreme People's Court that he must go to see Lin Senhao before December 11.\n\nThe lawyer used of the defendant, Xie Tongxiang said that he will submit a written application to help Lin Senhao apply for a pretest, in order to make a final effort.\n\n\"This sentence sparked heated debate. Professional and knowledgeable elite students not abiding by the basic line of ethics makes people vigilant. A too utilitarian social environment allows us to ignore the cultivation of the most basic health personality; the indoctrination of animosity makes the restless youth narrow-minded and intolerant. From intimate roommate to poison, it's not just education that needs to rethink.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18677212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18677212", "title": "Heuweltjie", "text": "Heuweltjie\n\nHeuweltjies are a class of soil surface feature that occurs widely in the south-western Cape of South Africa. They may be recognised as large mounds above or near the surface of the landscape. Like other similar-looking phenomena, such as Mima mounds and fairy circles, from which they have been poorly distinguished, particularly in early literature, they have been the subject of a wide range of speculation and of debate that has not yet been settled conclusively. \n\nIt is quite certain that not all types of heuweltjies have the same cause and nature. For one thing, the various organisms and circumstances that have been proposed to cause them do not occur throughout their range. For another, they differ in nature; some for example have been seen as improving soil fertility, an opinion documented at least as long ago as the early 20th century, whereas others seem to inhibit plant growth.\n\nPossible theories and discussions on the topic include the following:\n\nOne theory is that heuweltjies are fossil termite mounds. Within this hypothesis, there are two conflicting opinions on the origins of heuweltjies, one maintaining that heuweltjies were built by the harvester termite \"Microhodotermes viator\", the other that heuweltjies were built by a now possibly extinct termite species. The earliest radiocarbon dates on heuweltjies suggest an age of about 30,000 or even 40,000 B.P.\n\nAnother theory is that heuweltjies are created by burrowing (fossorial) animals. Variants of this hypothesis are that the animals are mole-rats in the families Bathyergidae and Rhizomyinae; termites; or a combination of mole-rats and termites. In a review paper, Walter Whitford and Fenton Kay state that while the mounds appear to have been created by termites, mammals (aardvarks) partially maintain the mounds by feeding on and living in them. They show a (log-log) correlation between the surface area of mounds including Mima mounds, badger digs, bison wallows, mole-rat, prairie-dog and banner-tail kangaroo rat mounds, with the longevity of the disturbance ('', i.e. disturbance of soil by living agents including animals, roots, etc.): a heuweltjie of 100–1000 square metres is 1000–10,000 years old.\n\nYet another theory is that heuweltjies are caused by differential erosion in places where the availability of water limits the growth of vegetation, creating natural patterns such as tiger bush. In favour of this theory, Michael Cramer and his colleagues note that heuweltjies contain at least ten times more soil than any termite nests in South Africa, and that they can occur on bedrock, which termites could not be tunnelling through to move soil upwards. Further, the heuweltjies had the same spatial distribution as bush-clumps, patches of woody vegetation forming patterns. They suggest that heuweltjies formed from bush-clumps as these protected the soil from eroding away, producing calcrete hardpans.\n\nIn 2017 Corina Tarnita and colleagues published a paper in \"Nature\" which explained these and other related self-organised vegetation patterns by means of a general theory which integrates scale-dependent feedbacks and the activities of subterranean ecosystem engineers such as termites, ants, and rodents.\n\nHeuweltjies modify their local environment, creating a patchwork of habitats in the Nama Karoo ecosystem. Soils in heuweltjies are finer-grained, contain more water, and are more alkaline than surrounding soils, and they support differing animal and plant communities. Both aardvark and steenbok use heuweltjies as dung middens; they are often colonised by Brant's whistling rats (\"Parotomys brantsii\"), and sheep graze and leave dung on them.\n\nThe Afrikaans word \"heuweltjie\" stems from the Dutch word \"heuveltje\", which translates to \"hillock\" or \"small hill\".\n\n"}
{"id": "246242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246242", "title": "Homestead strike", "text": "Homestead strike\n\nThe Homestead strike, also known as the Homestead Steel strike, Pinkerton rebellion, or Homestead massacre, was an industrial lockout and strike which began on July 1, 1892, culminating in a battle between strikers and private security agents on July 6, 1892. The battle was one of the most violent disputes in U.S. labor history, third behind the Ludlow Massacre and the Battle of Blair Mountain. The dispute occurred at the Homestead Steel Works in the Pittsburgh area town of Homestead, Pennsylvania, between the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers (the AA) and the Carnegie Steel Company. The final result was a major defeat for the union of strikers and a setback for their efforts to unionize steelworkers.\n\nCarnegie Steel made major technological innovations in the 1880s, especially the installation of the open-hearth system at Homestead in 1886. It now became possible to make steel suitable for structural beams and for armor plate for the United States Navy, which paid far higher prices for the premium product. In addition, the plant moved increasingly toward the continuous system of production. Carnegie installed vastly improved systems of material-handling, like overhead cranes, hoists, charging machines, and buggies. All of this greatly sped up the process of steelmaking, and allowed the production of vastly larger quantities of the product. As the mills expanded, the labor force grew rapidly, especially with less skilled workers. In response, the more-skilled union members reacted with a strike designed to protect their historic position. The bitterness grew between workers.\n\nThe Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers (AA) was an American labor union formed in 1876. It was a craft union representing skilled iron and steel workers.\n\nThe AA's membership was concentrated in ironworks west of the Allegheny Mountains. The union negotiated national uniform wage scales on an annual basis; helped regulate working hours, workload levels and work speeds; and helped improve working conditions. It also acted as a hiring hall, helping employers find scarce puddlers and rollers.\n\nThe AA organized the independently-owned Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Works in Homestead in 1881. The AA engaged in a bitter strike at the Homestead works on January 1, 1882 in an effort to prevent management from including a non-union clause in the workers' contracts, known as a \"yellow-dog contract\". Violence occurred on both sides, and the plant brought in numerous strikebreakers. The strike ended on March 20 in a complete victory for the union.\n\nThe AA struck the steel plant again on July 1, 1889, when negotiations for a new three-year collective bargaining agreement failed. The strikers seized the town and once again made common cause with various immigrant groups. Backed by 2,000 townspeople, the strikers drove off a trainload of strikebreakers on July 10. When the sheriff returned with 125 newly deputized agents two days later, the strikers rallied 5,000 townspeople to their cause. Although victorious, the union agreed to significant wage cuts that left tonnage rates less than half those at the nearby Jones and Laughlin works, where technological improvements had not been made.\n\nCarnegie officials conceded that the AA essentially ran the Homestead plant after the 1889 strike. The union contract contained 58 pages of footnotes defining work-rules at the plant and strictly limited management's ability to maximize output.\n\nFor its part, the AA saw substantial gains after the 1889 strike. Membership doubled, and the local union treasury had a balance of $146,000. The Homestead union grew belligerent, and relationships between workers and managers grew tense.\n\nThe Homestead strike was organized and purposeful, a harbinger of the type of strike which marked the modern age of labor relations in the United States. The AA strike at the Homestead steel mill in 1892 was different from previous large-scale strikes in American history such as the Great railroad strike of 1877 or the Great Southwest Railroad Strike of 1886. Earlier strikes had been largely leaderless and disorganized mass uprisings of workers.\n\nAndrew Carnegie placed industrialist Henry Clay Frick in charge of his company's operations in 1881. Frick resolved to break the union at Homestead. \"The mills have never been able to turn out the product they should, owing to being held back by the Amalgamated men,\" he complained in a letter to Carnegie.\n\nCarnegie was publicly in favor of labor unions. He condemned the use of strikebreakers and told associates that no steel mill was worth a single drop of blood. But Carnegie agreed with Frick's desire to break the union and \"reorganize the whole affair, and . . . exact good reasons for employing every man. Far too many men required by Amalgamated rules.\" Carnegie ordered the Homestead plant to manufacture large amounts of inventory so the plant could weather a strike. He also drafted a notice (which Frick never released) withdrawing recognition of the union.\nWith the collective bargaining agreement due to expire on June 30, 1892, Frick and the leaders of the local AA union entered into negotiations in February. With the steel industry doing well and prices higher, the AA asked for a wage increase; the AA represented about 800 of the 3,800 workers at the plant. Frick immediately countered with a 22% wage decrease that would affect nearly half the union's membership and remove a number of positions from the bargaining unit. Carnegie encouraged Frick to use the negotiations to break the union: \"...the Firm has decided that the minority must give way to the majority. These works, therefore, will be necessarily non-union after the expiration of the present agreement.\" Carnegie believed that the Amalgamated was a hindrance to efficiency; furthermore it was not representative of the workers. It admitted only a small group of skilled workers. It was in its own way an elitist, discriminatory organization that was not worthy of the Republic, Carnegie felt.\n\nFrick announced on April 30, 1892 that he would bargain for 29 more days. If no contract was reached, Carnegie Steel would cease to recognize the union. Carnegie formally approved Frick's tactics on May 4. Then Frick offered a slightly better wage scale and advised the Superintendent to tell the workers, \"We do not care whether a man belongs to a union or not, nor do we wish to interfere. He may belong to as many unions or organizations as he chooses, but we think our employees at Homestead Steel Works would fare much better working under the system in vogue at Edgar Thomson and Duquesne.\"\n\nFrick locked workers out of the plate mill and one of the open hearth furnaces on the evening of June 28. When no collective bargaining agreement was reached on June 29, Frick locked the union out of the rest of the plant. A high fence topped with barbed wire, begun in January, was completed and the plant sealed to the workers. Sniper towers with searchlights were constructed near each mill building, and high-pressure water cannons (some capable of spraying boiling-hot liquid) were placed at each entrance. Various aspects of the plant were protected, reinforced, or shielded.\n\nAt a mass meeting on June 30, local AA leaders reviewed the final negotiating sessions and announced that the company had broken the contract by locking out workers a day before the contract expired. The Knights of Labor, which had organized the mechanics and transportation workers at Homestead, agreed to walk out alongside the skilled workers of the AA. Workers at Carnegie plants in Pittsburgh, Duquesne, Union Mills and Beaver Falls struck in sympathy the same day.\n\nThe Declaration of the Strike Committee, dated July 20, 1892 reads in part,\n\nThe employees in the mill of Messrs. Carnegie, Phipps & Co., at Homestead, Pa., have built there a town with its homes, its schools and its churches; have for many years been faithful co-workers with the company in the business of the mill; have invested thousands of dollars of their savings in said mill in the expectation of spending their lives in Homestead and of working in the mill during the period of their efficiency. . . . \"Therefore, the committee desires to express to the public as its firm belief that both the public and the employees aforesaid have equitable rights and interests in the said mill which cannot be modified or diverted without due process of law; that the employees have the right to continuous employment in the said mill during efficiency and good behavior without regard to religious, political or economic opinions or associations; that it is against public policy and subversive of the fundamental principles of American liberty that a whole community of workers should be denied employment or suffer any other social detriment on account of membership in a church, a political party or a trade union; that it is our duty as American citizens to resist by every legal and ordinary means the unconstitutional, anarchic and revolutionary policy of the Carnegie Company, which seems to evince a contempt [for] public and private interests and a disdain [for] the public conscience. . . .\n\nThe strikers were determined to keep the plant closed. They secured a steam-powered river launch and several rowboats to patrol the Monongahela River, which ran alongside the plant. Men also divided themselves into units along military lines. Picket lines were thrown up around the plant and the town, and 24-hour shifts established. Ferries and trains were watched. Strangers were challenged to give explanations for their presence in town; if one was not forthcoming, they were escorted outside the city limits. Telegraph communications with AA locals in other cities were established to keep tabs on the company's attempts to hire replacement workers. Reporters were issued special badges which gave them safe passage through the town, but the badges were withdrawn if it was felt misleading or false information made it into the news. Tavern owners were even asked to prevent excessive drinking.\n\nFrick was also busy. The company placed ads for replacement workers in newspapers as far away as Boston, St. Louis and even Europe.\n\nBut unprotected strikebreakers would be driven off. On July 4, Frick formally requested that Sheriff William H. McCleary intervene to allow supervisors access to the plant. Carnegie corporation attorney Philander Knox gave the go-ahead to the sheriff on July 5, and McCleary dispatched 11 deputies to the town to post handbills ordering the strikers to stop interfering with the plant's operation. The strikers tore down the handbills and told the deputies that they would not turn over the plant to nonunion workers. Then they herded the deputies onto a boat and sent them downriver to Pittsburgh.\n\nFrick had ordered the construction of a solid board fence topped with barbed wire around mill property. The workers dubbed the newly fortified mill \"Fort Frick.\"\n\nFrick's intent was to open the works with nonunion men on July 6. Knox devised a plan to get the Pinkertons onto the mill property. With the mill ringed by striking workers, the agents would access the plant grounds from the river. Three hundred Pinkerton agents assembled on the Davis Island Dam on the Ohio River about five miles below Pittsburgh at 10:30 p.m. on the night of July 5, 1892. They were given Winchester rifles, placed on two specially-equipped barges and towed upriver.\n\nThe strikers were prepared for them; the AA had learned of the Pinkertons as soon as they had left Boston for the embarkation point. The small flotilla of union boats went downriver to meet the barges. Strikers on the steam launch fired a few random shots at the barges, then withdrew—blowing the launch whistle to alert the plant. The strikers blew the plant whistle at 2:30 a.m., drawing thousands of men, women and children to the plant.\n\nThe Pinkertons attempted to land under cover of darkness about 4 a.m. A large crowd of families had kept pace with the boats as they were towed by a tug into the town. A few shots were fired at the tug and barges, but no one was injured. The crowd tore down the barbed-wire fence and strikers and their families surged onto the Homestead plant grounds. Some in the crowd threw stones at the barges, but strike leaders shouted for restraint.\n\nThe Pinkerton agents attempted to disembark, and shots were fired. Conflicting testimony exists as to which side fired the first shot. John T. McCurry, a boatman on the steamboat \"Little Bill\" (which had been hired by the Pinkerton Detective Agency to ferry its agents to the steel mill) and one of the men wounded by the strikers, said: \"The armed Pinkerton men commenced to climb up the banks. Then the workmen opened fire on the detectives. The men shot first, and not until three of the Pinkerton men had fallen did they respond to the fire. I am willing to take an oath that the workmen fired first, and that the Pinkerton men did not shoot until some of their number had been wounded.\" But according to \"The New York Times\", the Pinkertons shot first. The newspaper reported that the Pinkertons opened fire and wounded William Foy, a worker. Regardless of which side opened fire first, the first two individuals wounded were Frederick Heinde, captain of the Pinkertons, and Foy. The Pinkerton agents aboard the barges then fired into the crowd, killing two and wounding 11. The crowd responded in kind, killing two and wounding 12. The firefight continued for about 10 minutes.\n\nThe strikers then huddled behind the pig and scrap iron in the mill yard, while the Pinkertons cut holes in the side of the barges so they could fire on any who approached. The Pinkerton tug departed with the wounded agents, leaving the barges stranded. The strikers soon set to work building a rampart of steel beams further up the riverbank from which they could fire down on the barges. Hundreds of women continued to crowd on the riverbank between the strikers and the agents, calling on the strikers to 'kill the Pinkertons'.\n\nThe strikers continued to sporadically fire on the barges. Union members took potshots at the ships from their rowboats and the steam-powered launch. The burgess of Homestead, John McLuckie, issued a proclamation at 6:00 a.m. asking for townspeople to help defend the peace; more than 5,000 people congregated on the hills overlooking the steelworks. A 20-pounder brass cannon was set up on the shore opposite the steel mill, and an attempt was made to sink the barges. Six miles away in Pittsburgh, thousands of steelworkers gathered in the streets, listening to accounts of the attacks at Homestead; hundreds, many of them armed, began to move toward the town to assist the strikers.\n\nThe Pinkertons attempted to disembark again at 8:00 a.m. A striker high up the riverbank fired a shot. The Pinkertons returned fire, and four more strikers were killed (one by shrapnel sent flying when cannon fire hit one of the barges). Many of the Pinkerton agents refused to participate in the firefight any longer; the agents crowded onto the barge farthest from the shore. More experienced agents were barely able to stop the new recruits from abandoning the ships and swimming away. Intermittent gunfire from both sides continued throughout the morning. When the tug attempted to retrieve the barges at 10:50 a.m., gunfire drove it off. More than 300 riflemen positioned themselves on the high ground and kept a steady stream of fire on the barges. Just before noon, a sniper shot and killed another Pinkerton agent.\n\nAfter a few more hours, the strikers attempted to burn the barges. They seized a raft, loaded it with oil-soaked timber and floated it toward the barges. The Pinkertons nearly panicked, and a Pinkerton captain had to threaten to shoot anyone who fled. But the fire burned itself out before it reached the barges. The strikers then loaded a railroad flatcar with drums of oil and set it afire. The flatcar hurtled down the rails toward the mill's wharf where the barges were docked. But the car stopped at the water's edge and burned itself out. Dynamite was thrown at the barges, but it only hit the mark once (causing a little damage to one barge). At 2:00 p.m., the workers poured oil onto the river, hoping the oil slick would burn the barges; attempts to light the slick failed.\n\nThe AA worked behind the scenes to avoid further bloodshed and defuse the tense situation. At 9:00 a.m., outgoing AA international president William Weihe rushed to the sheriff's office and asked McCleary to convey a request to Frick to meet. McCleary did so, but Frick refused. He knew that the more chaotic the situation became, the more likely it was that Governor Robert E. Pattison would call out the state militia.\n\nSheriff McCleary resisted attempts to call for state intervention until 10 a.m. on July 7. In a telegram to Gov. Pattison, he described how his deputies and the Carnegie men had been driven off, and noted that the workers and their supporters actively resisting the landing numbered nearly 5,000. Pattison responded by requiring McCleary to exhaust every effort to restore the peace. McCleary asked again for help at noon, and Pattison responded by asking how many deputies the sheriff had. A third telegram, sent at 3:00 p.m., again elicited a response from the governor exhorting McCleary to raise his own troops.\n\nAt 4:00 p.m., events at the mill quickly began to wind down. More than 5,000 men—most of them armed mill hands from the nearby South Side, Braddock and Duquesne works—arrived at the Homestead plant. Weihe wanted to prevent further trouble at Homestead, so he pleaded with Frick to confer with representatives of the Amalgamated to return to Homestead and stop the armed conflict. Weihe urged the strikers to let the Pinkertons surrender, but he was shouted down. Weihe tried to speak again, but this time his pleas were drowned out as the strikers bombarded the barges with fireworks left over from the recent Independence Day celebration. Hugh O'Donnell, a heater in the plant and head of the union's strike committee, then spoke to the crowd. He demanded that each Pinkerton be charged with murder, forced to turn over his arms and then be removed from the town. The crowd shouted their approval.\n\nThe Pinkertons, too, wished to surrender. At 5:00 p.m., they raised a white flag and two agents asked to speak with the strikers. O'Donnell guaranteed them safe passage out of town. Upon arrival, their arms were stripped from them. With heads uncovered, to distinguish them from the mill hands, they passed along between two rows of guards armed with Winchesters. As the Pinkertons crossed the grounds of the mill, the crowd formed a gauntlet through which the agents passed. Men and women threw sand and stones at the Pinkerton agents, spat on them and beat them. Several Pinkertons were clubbed into unconsciousness. Members of the crowd ransacked the barges, then burned them to the waterline.\n\nAs the Pinkertons were marched through town to the Opera House (which served as a temporary jail), the townspeople continued to assault the agents. Two agents were beaten as horrified town officials looked on. The press expressed shock at the treatment of the Pinkerton agents, and the torrent of abuse helped turn media sympathies away from the strikers.\n\nThe strike committee met with the town council to discuss the handover of the agents to McCleary. But the real talks were taking place between McCleary and Weihe in McCleary's office. At 10:15 p.m., the two sides agreed to a transfer process. A special train arrived at 12:30 a.m. on July 7. McCleary, the international AA's lawyer and several town officials accompanied the Pinkerton agents to Pittsburgh.\n\nBut when the Pinkerton agents arrived at their final destination in Pittsburgh, state officials declared that they would not be charged with murder (per the agreement with the strikers) but rather simply released. The announcement was made with the full concurrence of the AA attorney. A special train whisked the Pinkerton agents out of the city at 10:00 a.m. on July 7.\n\nOn July 7, the strike committee sent a telegram to Gov. Pattison to attempt to persuade him that law and order had been restored in the town. Pattison replied that he had heard differently. Union officials traveled to Harrisburg and met with Pattison on July 9. Their discussions revolved not around law and order, but the safety of the Carnegie plant.\n\nPattison, however, remained unconvinced by the strikers' arguments. Although Pattison had ordered the Pennsylvania militia to muster on July 6, he had not formally charged it with doing anything. Pattison's refusal to act rested largely on his concern that the union controlled the entire city of Homestead and commanded the allegiance of its citizens. Pattison refused to order the town taken by force, for fear a massacre would occur. But once emotions had died down, Pattison felt the need to act. He had been elected with the backing of a Carnegie-supported political machine, and he could no longer refuse to protect Carnegie interests.\n\nThe steelworkers resolved to meet the militia with open arms, hoping to establish good relations with the troops. But the militia managed to keep its arrival in the town a secret almost to the last moment. At 9:00 a.m. on July 12, the Pennsylvania state militia arrived at the small Munhall train station near the Homestead mill (rather than the downtown train station as expected). Their commander, Major General George R. Snowden, made it clear to local officials that he sided with the owners. When Hugh O'Donnell, the head of the union's strike committee attempted to welcome Snowden and pledge the cooperation of the strikers, Snowden told him that the strikers had not been law abiding, and that \"I want you to distinctly understand that I am the master of this situation.\" More than 4,000 soldiers surrounded the plant. Within 20 minutes they had displaced the picketers; by 10:00 a.m., company officials were back in their offices. Another 2,000 troops camped on the high ground overlooking the city.\n\nThe company quickly brought in strikebreakers and restarted production under the protection of the militia. Despite the presence of AFL pickets in front of several recruitment offices across the nation, Frick easily found employees to work the mill. The company quickly built bunk houses, dining halls and kitchens on the mill grounds to accommodate the strikebreakers. New employees, many of them black, arrived on July 13, and the mill furnaces relit on July 15. When a few workers attempted to storm into the plant to stop the relighting of the furnaces, militiamen fought them off and wounded six with bayonets. But all was not well inside the plant. A race war between nonunion black and white workers in the Homestead plant broke out on July 22, 1892.\n\nDesperate to find a way to continue the strike, the AA appealed to Whitelaw Reid, the Republican candidate for vice president, on July 16. The AA offered to make no demands or set any preconditions; the union merely asked that Carnegie Steel reopen the negotiations. Reid wrote to Frick, warning him that the strike was hurting the Republican ticket and pleading with him to reopen talks. Frick refused.\n\nFrick, too, needed a way out of the strike. The company could not operate for long with strikebreakers living on the mill grounds, and permanent replacements had to be found.\n\nOn July 18, the town was placed under martial law, further disheartening many of the strikers.\n\nNational attention became riveted on Homestead when, on July 23, Alexander Berkman, a New York anarchist with no connection to steel or to organized labor, plotted with his lover Emma Goldman to assassinate Frick. He came in from New York, gained entrance to Frick's office, then shot and stabbed the executive. Frick survived and continued his role; Berkman was sentenced to 22 years in prison.\n\nThe Berkman assassination attempt undermined public support for the union and prompted the final collapse of the strike. Hugh O'Donnell was removed as chair of the strike committee when he proposed to return to work at the lower wage scale if the unionists could get their jobs back. On August 12, the company announced that 1,700 men were working at the mill and production had resumed at full capacity. The national AFL refused to intervene, the East European workers ignored the union and it had no strategy left. The union voted to go back to work on Carnegie's terms; the strike had failed and the union had collapsed.\n\nThe company had waged a second front in state court, and was winning. On July 18, 16 of the strike leaders were charged with conspiracy, riot and murder. Each man was jailed for one night and forced to post a $10,000 bond.\n\nThe union retaliated by charging company executives with murder as well. The company men, too, had to post a $10,000 bond, but they were not forced to spend any time in jail. One judge issued treason charges against the Advisory Committee on August 30 for making itself the law. Most of the men could not raise the bail bond, and went to jail or into hiding. A compromise was reached whereby both sides dropped their charges.\n\nSupport for the strikers evaporated. The AFL refused to call for a boycott of Carnegie products in September 1892. Wholesale crossing of the picket line occurred, first among Eastern European immigrants and then among all workers. The strike had collapsed so much that the state militia pulled out on October 13, ending the 95-day occupation. The AA was nearly bankrupted by the job action. Weekly union relief for a member averaged $6.25 but totaled a staggering $10,000 per week when including 1,600 strikers. With only 192 out of more than 3,800 strikers in attendance, the Homestead chapter of the AA voted, 101 to 91, to return to work on November 20, 1892.\n\nIn the end, only four workers were ever tried on the actual charges filed on July 18. Three AA members were found innocent of all charges. Hugh Dempsey, the leader of the local Knights of Labor District Assembly, was found guilty of conspiring to poison nonunion workers at the plant—despite the state's star witness recanting his testimony on the stand. Dempsey served a seven-year prison term. In February 1893, Knox and the union agreed to drop the charges filed against one another, and no further prosecutions emerged from the events at Homestead.\n\nThe striking AA affiliate in Beaver Falls gave in the same day as the Homestead lodge. The AA affiliate at Union Mills held out until August 14, 1893. But by then the union had only 53 members. The union had been broken; the company had been operating the plant at full capacity for almost a year, since September 1892.\n\nThe Homestead strike broke the AA as a force in the American labor movement. Many employers refused to sign contracts with their AA unions while the strike lasted. A deepening in 1889 of the Long Depression led most steel companies to seek wage decreases similar to those imposed at Homestead.\n\nAn organizing drive at the Homestead plant in 1896 was crushed by Frick. In May 1899, 300 Homestead workers actually formed an AA lodge, but Frick ordered the Homestead works shut down and the unionization effort collapsed.\nDe-unionization efforts throughout the Midwest began against the AA in 1897 when Jones and Laughlin Steel refused to sign a contract. By 1900, not a single steel plant in Pennsylvania remained unionized. The AA presence in Ohio and Illinois continued for a few more years, but the union continued to collapse. Many lodges disbanded, their members disillusioned. Others were easily broken in short battles. Carnegie Steel's Mingo Junction, Ohio, plant was the last major unionized steel mill in the country. But it, too, successfully withdrew recognition without a fight in 1903.\n\nAA membership sagged to 10,000 in 1894 from its high of over 24,000 in 1891. A year later, it was down to 8,000. A 1901 strike against Carnegie's successor company, U.S. Steel collapsed. By 1909, membership in the AA had sunk to 6,300. A nationwide steel strike of 1919 also was unsuccessful. The AA maintained a rump membership in the steel industry until its takeover by the Steel Workers Organizing Committee in 1936. The two organizations officially disbanded and formed the United Steelworkers May 22, 1942.\n\nIn 1999 the Bost Building in downtown Homestead, AA headquarters throughout the strike, was designated a National Historic Landmark. It is used as a museum devoted not only to the strike, but also the steel industry in the Pittsburgh area. A railroad bridge over the Monongahela River near the site of the battle is named Pinkerton's Landing Bridge in honor of the dead. Two sites were each designated with a Pennsylvania state historical marker: the site where Pinkerton attempted to land, and the two adjoining cemeteries of St. Mary's and Homestead where are buried the remains of six of the seven Carnegie Steel Company workers that were killed. The Pinkerton landing site was also named a Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmark.\n\nThe pumphouse where the gunfight occurred remains as a museum and meeting hall. There are several historical markers as well as a metal commemorative sign with the US Steel logo that reads \"In Honor Of The Workers.\"\n\n\n (Contemporary book by Pittsburgh journalist Arthur Gordon Burgoyne.)\n"}
{"id": "7372153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7372153", "title": "Hoʻoponopono", "text": "Hoʻoponopono\n\nHooponopono (IPA [ho.ʔo.po.no.po.no]) is a Hawaiian practice of reconciliation and forgiveness. The Hawaiian word translates into English simply as \"correction\", with the synonyms \"manage\" or \"supervise\", and the antonym \"careless\". Similar forgiveness practices are performed on islands throughout the South Pacific, including Hawaii, Samoa, Tahiti and New Zealand. Traditional \"Hooponopono\" is practiced by Indigenous Hawaiian healers, often within the extended family by a family member. There is also a New Age practice that goes by the same name.\n\nIn many Polynesian cultures, it is believed that a person's errors (called \"hara\" or \"hala\") caused illness. Some believe error angers the gods, others that it attracts malevolent gods, and still others believe the guilt caused by error made one sick. \"In most cases, however, specific 'untie-error' rites could be performed to atone for such errors and thereby diminish one's accumulation of them.\"\n\nAmong the islands of Vanuatu in the South Pacific, people believe that illness usually is caused by sexual misconduct or anger. \"If you are angry for two or three days, sickness will come,\" said one local man. The therapy that counters this sickness is confession. The patient, or a family member, may confess. If no one confesses an error, the patient may die. The Vanuatu people believe that secrecy is what gives power to the illness. When the error is confessed, it no longer has power over the person.\n\nLike many other islanders, including Hawaiians, people of Tikopia in the Solomon Islands, and on Rarotonga in the Cook Islands, believe that the sins of the father will fall upon the children. If a child is sick, the parents are suspected of quarreling or misconduct. In addition to sickness, social disorder could cause sterility of land or other disasters. Harmony could be restored only by confession and apology.\n\nIn Pukapuka, it was customary to hold sort of a confessional over patients to determine an appropriate course of action in order to heal them.\n\nSimilar traditions are found in Samoa, Tahiti, and among the Maori of New Zealand.\n\n\"Hooponopono\" is defined in the \"Hawaiian Dictionary\" as:\n\n(a) \"To put to rights; to put in order or shape, correct, revise, adjust, amend, regulate, arrange, rectify, tidy up make orderly or neat, administer, superintend, supervise, manage, edit, work carefully or neatly; to make ready, as canoemen preparing to catch a wave.\"\n\n(b) \"Mental cleansing: family conferences in which relationships were set right (\"hooponopono\") through prayer, discussion, confession, repentance, and mutual restitution and forgiveness.\" \n\nLiterally, \"hoo\" is a particle used to make an actualizing verb from the following noun, as would \"to\" before a noun in English. Here, it creates a verb from the noun \"pono\", which is defined as: \"...goodness, uprightness, morality, moral qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, well-being, prosperity, welfare, benefit, true condition or nature, duty; moral, fitting, proper, righteous, right, upright, just, virtuous, fair, beneficial, successful, in perfect order, accurate, correct, eased, relieved; should, ought, must, necessary.\"\n\n\"Ponopono\" is defined as \"to put to rights; to put in order or shape, correct, revise, adjust, amend, regulate, arrange, rectify, tidy up, make orderly or neat.\"\n\nHawaiian scholar Nana Veary in her book, \"Change We Must: My Spiritual Journey\" wrote that ho'oponopono was a practice in Ancient Hawaii and this is supported by oral histories from contemporary Hawaiian elders. Pukui first recorded her experiences and observations from her childhood (born 1895) in her 1958 book.\n\nAlthough the word \"hooponopono\" was not used, early Hawaiian historians documented a belief that illness was caused by breaking kapu, or spiritual laws, and that the illness could not be cured until the sufferer atoned for this transgression, often with the assistance of a praying priest (\"kahuna pule\") or healing priest (\"kahuna lapaau\"). Forgiveness was sought from the gods or from the person with whom there was a dispute.\n\nPukui described it as a practice of extended family members meeting to \"make right\" broken family relations. Some families met daily or weekly, to prevent problems from erupting. Others met when a person became ill, believing that illness was caused by the stress of anger, guilt, recriminations and lack of forgiveness. Kupuna Nana Veary wrote that when any of the children in her family fell ill, her grandmother would ask the parents, \"What have you done?\" They believed that healing could come only with complete forgiveness of the whole family.\n\nHooponopono corrects, restores and maintains good relationships among family members and with their gods or God by getting to the causes and sources of trouble. Usually the most senior member of the family conducts it. He or she gathers the family together. If the family is unable to work through a problem, they turn to a respected outsider.\n\nThe process begins with prayer. A statement of the problem is made, and the transgression discussed. Family members are expected to work problems through and cooperate, not \"hold fast to the fault\". One or more periods of silence may be taken for reflection on the entanglement of emotions and injuries. Everyone's feelings are acknowledged. Then confession, repentance and forgiveness take place. Everyone releases (\"kala\") each other, letting go. They cut off the past (\"oki\"), and together they close the event with a ceremonial feast, called \"pani\", which often included eating \"limu kala\" or kala seaweed, symbolic of the release.\n\nIn a form used by the family of \"kahuna\" Makaweliweli of the island of Molokai, the completion of hooponopono is represented by giving the person forgiven a lei made from the fruit of the hala tree.\n\n\"Aunty\" Malia Craver, who worked with the Queen Liliuokalani Children's Centers (QLCC) for more than 30 years, taught courses in traditional hooponopono. On August 30, 2000, she spoke about it to the United Nations.\n\nIn the late 20th century, courts in Hawaii began to order juvenile and adult offenders to work with an elder who would conduct hooponopono for their families, as a form of alternative dispute resolution. The hooponopono is conducted in the traditional way, without court interference, with a practitioner picked by the family from a list of court-approved providers.\n\nSome native practitioners provide hooponopono to clients who otherwise might seek family counseling.\n\nIn 1976 Morrnah Simeona, regarded as a healing priest or \"kahuna lapaau\", adapted the traditional hooponopono of family mutual forgiveness to the social realities of the modern day. For this she extended it both to a general problem solving process outside the family and to a psycho-spiritual self-help rather than group process.\n\nSimeona's version is influenced by her Christian (Protestant and Catholic) education and her philosophical studies about India, China and Edgar Cayce. Like Hawaiian tradition she emphasizes prayer, confession, repentance, and mutual restitution and forgiveness. Unlike Hawaiian tradition, she describes problems only as the effects of negative karma, saying that \"you have to experience by yourself what you have done to others.\" But that you are the creator of your life circumstances was common knowledge for the people of old as \"things we had brought with us from other lifetimes.\" Any wrongdoing is memorized within oneself and mirrored in every entity and object which was present when the cause happened. As the Law of Cause and Effect predominates in all of life and lifetimes, the purpose of her version is mainly \"to release unhappy, negative experiences in past reincarnations, and to resolve and remove traumas from the 'memory banks'.\" Karmic bondages hinder the evolution of mind, so that \"(karmic) cleansing is a requisite for the expansion of awareness\". Using her 14-step-process would dissolve those bondages. She did not use mantras or conditioning exercises.\n\nHer teachings include: there is a Divine Creator who takes care of altruistic pleas of Men; \"when the phrase 'And it is done' is used after a prayer, it means Man's work ends and God's begins.\" \"Self-Identity\" signifies, e.g. during the hooponopono, that the three selves or aspects of consciousness are balanced and connected with the Divine Creator. Different from egoistic prayers, \"altruistic prayers like hooponopono, where you also pray for the release of other entities and objects, reach the Divine plane or Cosmos because of their high vibrations. From that plane the Divine energy or \"mana\" would come,\" which would transform the painful part of the memory of the wrong actions in all participants to \"Pure Light\", on whatever plane they are existing; \"all are set free\". Through this transmutation in the mind the problems will lose their energy for physical effects, and healing or balancing is begun. In this sense, Simeona's mana is not the same as the traditional Polynesian understanding of mana.\n\nPacifica Seminars, founded by Morrnah Simeona, started the first Ho'oponopono seminars in Germany. Seminars are still held on a regular basis in Germany, Poland, France, and Denmark.\n\nAfter Simeona's death in 1992, her former student and administrator, Ihaleakala Hew Len, co-authored a book with Joe Vitale called \"Zero Limits\" referring to Simeona's Hooponopono teachings. Len makes no claim to be a \"kahuna\". In contrast to Simeona's teachings, the book brings the new idea that the main objective of Hooponopono is getting to \"the state of Zero, where we would have zero limits. No memories. No identity.\" To reach this state, which Len called 'Self-I-Dentity thru Ho'oponopono', includes using the mantra, \"I love you. I'm sorry. Please forgive me. Thank you.\" It is based on Len's idea of 100% responsibility, taking responsibility for everyone's actions, not only for one's own. If one would take complete responsibility for one's life, then everything one sees, hears, tastes, touches, or in any way experiences would be one's responsibility because it is in one's life. The problem would not be with our external reality, it would be with ourselves. Total Responsibility, according to Hew Len, advocates that everything exists as a projection from inside the human being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47962975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47962975", "title": "Humanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces", "text": "Humanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces\n\nHumanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces is a task in the Armed forces of the Netherlands. Humanist counsellors, sometimes called humanist chaplain, contribute to the (mental) well-being of military personnel, those related to them, and veterans. They do this through visible presence at the workplace, personal contact and guidance. They hold conversations, give advice and offer support. Issues concerning meaning and ethics are central to their work.\n\nThe work of humanist counsellors in the armed forces consists of:\n\nHumanist counsellors are appointed as civil servants, though for carrying out their work they are viewed equivalent to the military ranks (captain, major or lieutenant colonel). They are employed in the military, not by the military, and work outside the military hierarchy. Professionally they are not accountable to the Ministry of Defence or the military authority, but to the agency that sends them, the Dutch Humanist Society (Humanistisch Verbond). This service exists primarily for the people, not for the military apparatus. Humanist counsellors thus like to call themselves (positively) critically involved. \nHumanist counsellors give support, but also maintain a critical distance. It means being part of the (military) unit, befriending them and gaining access to their world, while at the same time being able to pose the critical question, keeping sufficient distance to be able to see things from a different perspective, to remain the involved outsider.\n\nWherever the soldiers are stationed, humanist counsellors are active, working for the benefit of the mental well-being of personnel in the armed forces. Humanist counsellors are thus, also stationed outside the Netherlands, for example at Curaçao, and join missions abroad as well as longer naval operations. \nA humanist counsellor works together with the unit they're stationed with. A counsellor goes along once in a while on patrol, helps out in the kitchen sometimes, sits with the guards at another time, or visits someone at the military field hospital. They are a member of the unit, while holding an independent position as well. They also join the deployments abroad, so they live and work in the same circumstances as the soldiers.\n\nThe humanist counseling department in the armed forces was introduced on 1 September 1964, in order to serve secular and non-religious soldiers. The department started with five counsellors. Over the years however, it has developed into one of the major counseling departments of the armed forces, with a current total of thirty eight humanist counsellors. The counsellors adopt the humanist philosophy in their work, not imposing one’s ideas onto others. In this form of counselling, the person asking for help and his own views and ways of thinking are central. But the counsellors do try to contribute to the humanization of the armed forces, by creating a more dignified, humane atmosphere.\n\nHumanism is a life stance in which the human being is central. Humanists want to determine their life-choices themselves, assuming self-responsibility, and living autonomously, but in connection with others and the world around them.\n\n"}
{"id": "13800465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13800465", "title": "Index of philosophy of mind articles", "text": "Index of philosophy of mind articles\n\nThis is a list of philosophy of mind articles.\n"}
{"id": "14669764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14669764", "title": "Jennifer Coate", "text": "Jennifer Coate\n\nJennifer Ann Coate (born 8 February 1953) is an Australian jurist. Coate is a Judge of the Family Court of Australia and one of the six Royal Commissioners appointed by the Australian government Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse.\n\nCoate studied law at Monash University. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1979, and a Bachelor of Laws in 1984. Coate worked part-time as a teacher while she studied law.\n\nUpon graduating, Coate worked as a solicitor and then a barrister. She also served as an academic, and contributed to a range of social policy groups and committees.\n\nIn 1992, Coate was appointed a magistrate. By September 1996, she was Deputy Chief Magistrate of Victoria. In June 2000, she was made a judge of the County Court of Victoria, and was made the first female President of the Children's Court of Victoria. One of the most significant reforms she oversaw as President of the Children's Court was the establishment of a Children's Koori Court, a specialist court designed to accommodate juvenile Indigenous offenders. In 2001, Coate was made part-time Commissioner of the Victorian Law Reform Commission. Coate left the Children's Court in April 2006.\n\nOn 29 November 2007, she formally took up responsibilities as Coroner of Victoria, marking the first time a woman had taken on the role; and served in that role until her appointment to the Family Court. Until 2006, she served as the first female President of the Children's Court of Victoria.\n\nAdditionally, Coate has been involved in a wide range of charitable and community organizations. She has served as Chair of the Health Services for Abused Victorian Children Advisory Group and Chair of the Anglicare Steering Committee for Group Conferencing Restorative Justice.\n\nOn 11 January 2013, Judge Coate was named as one of the six Royal Commissioners appointed to investigate child sexual abuse by the Australian government Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse.\n\nCoate is reportedly highly respected in legal circles as an extremely bright, thoughtful lawyer, who occasionally acts unconventionally to demonstrate a point. In 1993, when Coate had only recently been appointed a magistrate, a controversy broke out in a Victorian court, when a female solicitor was criticized by a judge for coming to court in polka-dot stockings and a suit with a skirt that finished above the knee. The incident attracted widespread media attention and sparked extensive debate. In a silent protest against her colleague's comments, Coate spent the remainder of the week dressed in outlandishly coloured and patterned stockings, ensuring that she was seen widely and publicly in Melbourne's legal precinct.\n"}
{"id": "296337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296337", "title": "Jonathan Larson", "text": "Jonathan Larson\n\nJonathan David Larson (February 4, 1960 – January 25, 1996) was an American composer and playwright noted for exploring the social issues of multiculturalism, addiction, and homophobia in his work. Typical examples of his use of these themes are found in his works \"Rent\" and \"tick, tick... BOOM!\" He received three posthumous Tony Awards and a posthumous Pulitzer Prize for Drama for the rock musical \"Rent\".\n\nLarson was born to Jewish parents, Allan and Nanette Larson, in White Plains, New York. He was exposed to the performing arts, especially music and theatre, from an early age, as he played the trumpet, tuba, sang in his school's choir, and took formal piano lessons. His early musical influences were his favorite rock musicians such as Elton John, The Beatles, The Doors, The Who, and Billy Joel, as well as the classic composers of musical theatre, especially Stephen Sondheim. Larson was also involved in acting in high school, performing in lead roles in various productions at White Plains High School.\n\nLarson attended Adelphi University in Garden City, New York with a four-year scholarship as an acting major, in addition to performing in numerous plays and musical theatre. During his college years, he began music composition, composing music first for small student productions, called cabarets, and later the score to a musical entitled \"Libro de Buen Amor\", written by the department head, Jacques Burdick. Burdick functioned as Larson's mentor during his college education. After graduating with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree, Larson participated in a summer stock theatre program at The Barn Theatre in Augusta, Michigan as a piano player, which resulted in his earning an Equity Card for membership in the Actors' Equity Association.\n\nLarson moved to a loft with no heat on the fifth floor of a building at the corner of Greenwich Street and Spring Street in Lower Manhattan where he lived with various roommates, among them Greg Beals, a journalist for Newsweek magazine and the brother of actress Jennifer Beals, and James Clunie, now a creative director at advertising agency BBDO. For 9 and a half years Larson worked as a waiter at the Moondance Diner during weekends, and worked on composing and writing musicals during the weekdays. At the diner Larson later met Jesse L. Martin, who was his waiting trainee and later would perform the role of Tom Collins in the original cast of Larson's \"Rent\". Larson and his roommates lived in harsh conditions with little money or property.\n\nBefore composing and writing the musical \"Rent,\" his most popular work, Jonathan Larson wrote a variety of early theatrical pieces, with varying degrees of success and production.\n\nAmong his early creative works is \"Sacrimmoralinority,\" his first musical which was co-written with David Glenn Armstrong, and originally staged at his alma mater Adelphi University in the winter of 1981. Following Jonathan and David's graduation in 1982, and retitled \"Saved! - An Immoral Musical on the Moral Majority,\" the Brechtian-themed musical cabaret played a four-week showcase run at Rusty's Storefront Blitz, a small theatre on 42nd Street in Manhattan, and won both authors a writing award from ASCAP.\n\nBetween 1983 and 1990, Larson wrote \"Superbia,\" originally intended as a futuristic rock retelling of George Orwell's book \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", though the Orwell estate denied him permission to adapt the novel itself. \"Superbia\" won the Richard Rodgers Production Award and the Richard Rodgers Development Grant. However, despite performances at Playwrights Horizons and a rock concert version produced by Larson's close friend and producer Victoria Leacock at the Village Gate in September 1989, \"Superbia\" was not fully produced, leading to disappointment for Larson.\n\nHis next work, completed in 1991, was an autobiographical \"rock monologue\" entitled \"30/90\", which was later renamed \"Boho Days\" and finally titled \"tick, tick... BOOM!\". This piece, written for only Larson with a piano and rock band, was intended to be a response to his feelings of rejection caused by the disappointment of \"Superbia.\" The show was performed off-Broadway at the Village Gate in Greenwich Village, as well as at the Second Stage Theater, then on the Upper West Side. Both of these productions were produced by Victoria Leacock. The producer Jeffrey Seller saw a reading of \"Boho Days\" and expressed interest in producing Larson's musicals. After Larson's death, the work was reworked into a stage musical by playwright David Auburn and arranger and musical director Stephen Oremus. The stage version premiered off-Broadway in 2001, and has since also been produced on the West End.\n\nIn 1992, Larson collaborated with fellow composer/lyricists Rusty Magee, Bob Golden, Paul Scott Goodman and Jeremy Roberts on \"Sacred Cows,\" which was devised and pitched to television networks as a weekly anthology with each episode taking a different Biblical or mythological story and giving it a '90s celebrity twist. The project was shelved due to scheduling conflicts among the five composers but resurfaced over 20 years later in a six-page Playbill.com article. The demo for \"Sacred Cows\" was released on iTunes.\n\nWhile in college, Larson came into contact with his strongest musical theatre influence, Stephen Sondheim, to whom he occasionally submitted his work for review. One \"tick, tick... BOOM!\" song called \"Sunday\" is a homage to Sondheim, who supported Larson, staying close to the melody and lyrics of Sondheim's own song of the same title but turning it from a manifesto about art into a waiter's lament. Sondheim would often write letters of recommendation for Larson to various producers. Larson later won the Stephen Sondheim Award.\n\nIn addition to his three larger theatrical pieces written before \"Rent\", Larson also wrote music for \"J.P. Morgan Saves the Nation\"; numerous individual numbers; music for \"Sesame Street\"; music for the children's book cassettes of \"An American Tail\" and \"The Land Before Time\"; music for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine publisher Jann Wenner; a musical called \"Mowgli\"; and four songs for the children's video \"Away We Go!\", which he also conceived with collaborator and composer Bob Golden and directed. He also performed in John Gray's musical \"Billy Bishop Goes to War\", which starred his close friend actor Roger Bart (\"Desperate Housewives\"). For his early works, Larson won a grant and award from the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers and the Gilman and Gonzalez-Falla Theatre Foundation's Commendation Award.\n\nPlaywright Billy Aronson came up with the idea to write a musical update of \"La Bohème\" in 1988. He wanted to create \"a musical inspired by Giacomo Puccini's \"La Bohème\", in which the luscious splendor of Puccini's world would be replaced with the coarseness and noise of modern New York\".\n\nIn 1989, Aronson called Ira Weitzman with his idea, asking for ideas for collaborators, and Weitzman put Larson together with Aronson to collaborate on the new project. Larson came up with the title and suggested moving the setting from the Upper West Side to downtown, where Larson and his roommates lived in a rundown apartment. For a while, he and his roommates kept an illegal wood-burning stove because of lack of heat in their building, and he also dated a dancer for four years who sometimes left him for other men and eventually left him for a woman. These experiences would influence the autobiographical aspects of \"Rent\". Larson wanted to write about his own experience, and in 1991, he asked Billy if he could use the original concept they collaborated on and make \"Rent\" his own. They made an agreement that if the show went to Broadway, Aronson would share in the proceeds. Eventually they decided on setting the musical not in SoHo, where Larson lived, but rather in Alphabet City in the East Village.\n\n\"Rent\" started as a staged reading in 1993 at the New York Theatre Workshop, followed by a studio production that played a three-week run a year later. However, the version that is now known worldwide, the result of a three-year-long collaborative and editing process between Larson and the producers and director, was not publicly performed before Larson's death. The show premiered Off Broadway on schedule. Larson's parents (who were flying in for the show anyway) gave their blessing to open the show. Due to Larson's death the day before the first preview performance, the cast agreed that they would premiere the show by simply singing it through, all the while sitting at three prop tables lined up on stage. But by the time the show got to its high energy \"La Vie Boheme\", the cast could no longer contain themselves and did the rest of the show as it was meant to be, minus costumes, to the crowd and the Larson family's approval. Once the show was over, there was a long applause followed by silence which was eventually broken when an audience member shouted out \"Thank you, Jonathan Larson.\"\n\n\"Rent\" played through its planned engagement to sold-out crowds and was continually extended. The decision was finally made to move the show to Broadway, and it opened at the Nederlander Theatre on April 29, 1996. In addition to the New York Theatre Workshop, \"Rent\" was and is produced by Jeffrey Seller, who was introduced to Larson's work when attending an off-Broadway performance of \"Boho Days\", and two of his producer friends who also wished to support the work, Kevin McCollum and Allan S. Gordon.\n\nFor his work on \"Rent\", Larson was posthumously awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, the Tony Awards for Best Musical, Best Book of a Musical, and Best Original Score; the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Book of a Musical, the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Music, and the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Lyrics; the New York Drama Critics Circle Award for Best Musical; the Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Musical in the Off-Broadway category; and three Obie Awards for Outstanding Book, Outstanding Lyrics and Outstanding Music.\n\nLarson died unexpectedly the morning of \"Rent\"s first preview performance Off Broadway. He suffered an aortic dissection, believed to have been caused by undiagnosed Marfan syndrome, in the early morning on January 25, 1996. New York State medical investigators concluded that if the aortic dissection had been properly diagnosed and treated, Larson would have lived.\n\nHe had been suffering severe chest pains, dizziness, and shortness of breath for several days prior to his death, but doctors at Cabrini Medical Center and St. Vincent's Hospital could not find signs of an aortic aneurysm even after doing a chest X-ray and electrocardiogram so they misdiagnosed it either as flu or stress.\n\n\"Rent\" played on Broadway at the Nederlander Theatre from its debut in April 1996 until it closed on September 7, 2008. It is the 11th longest running show in Broadway history. In addition, it has toured throughout the United States, Canada, Japan, United Kingdom, Australia, China, Singapore, Philippines, Mexico, Germany, Poland and throughout Europe as well as in other locations. A film version was released in 2005.\n\nAfter his death, Larson's family and friends started the Jonathan Larson Performing Arts Foundation to provide monetary grants to artists, especially musical theatre composers and writers, to support their creative work. The Jonathan Larson Grants are now administered by the American Theatre Wing, thanks to an endowment funded by the Foundation and the Larson Family.\n\nJonathan's work was given to the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. in December 2003. The Jonathan Larson Collection is a new addition to its major holdings in the area of musical theater. The collection documents Larson's surprisingly prolific output, including numerous musicals, revues, cabarets, pop songs, dance and video projects – both produced and unproduced.\n\nLess than three years after \"Rent\" closed on Broadway it was revived Off-Broadway at Stage 1 of New World Stages just outside the Theater District. The show was directed by Michael Greif who directed the original productions. The show went into previews on July 14, 2011 and opened August 11, 2011.\n\nIn memoriam of Jonathan Larson, in 1996, the Larson family along with the Jonathan Larson Performing Arts Foundation put together an award honoring emerging musical theater writers and composers. In 2008, the American Theatre Wing adopted and continued on the legacy through the Jonathan Larson Grants, an unrestricted cash gift to aid in the creative endeavors of the writers and promote their work.\n\nPrevious winners include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4572947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4572947", "title": "Larry Yaeger", "text": "Larry Yaeger\n\nLarry Steven Yaeger (1950) is a former Apple Distinguished Scientist and Full Professor of Informatics at Indiana University Bloomington, currently employed at Google. Outside of academia he is best known for designing the handwriting recognition software used in the Apple Newton and Inkwell. Yaeger's academic research focused on the evolution of true artificial intelligence through natural selection. He is the lead developer of Polyworld.\n\n"}
{"id": "41751723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41751723", "title": "List of people killed during Euromaidan", "text": "List of people killed during Euromaidan\n\nThis is the list of people killed during Euromaidan events taking place in the fall and winter of 2013–2014. The list contains only confirmed deaths of Euromaidan participants, Ukrainian policemen and other killed by Euromaidan participants. There are currently near 130 identified deaths; most of them were civilian protesters. 18 police officers were also killed during the clashes.\n\nUkrainian sources often refer to the killed protesters as the Heavenly Hundred. \nOn 21 February 2014, Verkhovna Rada recognized the perished protesters of Euromaidan as victims. On 21 November 2014 by Petro Poroshenko's decree the perished Ukrainian protesters of Euromaidan were posthumously awarded the Hero of Ukraine title.\nThree non-Ukrainian citizens killed in the Euromaidan events were each posthumously awarded the title \"Knight of the Order of the Heaven's Hundred Heroes\".\n2015 \"the Day of the Heavenly Hundred Heroes\" was celebrated on 20 February to commemorate the deaths.\n\nThe first deaths occurred on Unity Day, 22 January 2014, during riots on Hrushevskoho Street in Kiev, where 3 Euromaidan activists were shot dead. On the same day, a dead body of another Euromaidan activist was found on the outskirts of the city; he was kidnapped a day before with Ihor Lutsenko, who was released. These were the first victims to die in demonstrations in Ukraine since gaining national independence in 1991. The deaths caused widespread protests across the country. On 23 January 2014, then Prime Minister Mykola Azarov in an interview with BBC said that police had not been issued firearms, and said no police officers were located on the rooftops around the protest area. He stated that the shooting of protesters was a provocation by extremist forces aimed at escalating violence. Party of Regions MP Arsen Klinchayev stated during a memorial service in Luhansk for those killed on 22 January by police, \"These people were against the government. Nobody has the right to use physical force against police officers. And then they have their sticks, then stones, then something else. The police have the right to defend their lives. So I think it's right that these four people were killed. Moreover, I believe that you need to be stricter.\"\n\n5 more deaths in connection with Euromaidan occurred between 25 January and 13 February.\n\nThe second active phase started February 18. After a brief truce on 19 February, the clashes renewed 20 February. According to the newspaper Ukrainska Pravda, the special force (Berkut) and Interior Troops snipers shot at people on Maidan and/or snipers located in nearby buildings, with special forces firing with AK-47 assault rifles. 20 February was the bloodiest day of the clashes with at least 21 anti-government protesters being killed. The final death toll from these clashes in late February was 103 protesters and 13 police. According to the Deputy Prosecutor General of Ukraine Oleh Zalisko in February 2014 67 people were killed in Kiev's city centre, 184 sustained gunshot wounds and over 750 suffered bodily injuries (as stated on 9 December 2014). On 20 February 2014, the (then) opposition parties (Batkivshchyna, UDAR and Svoboda) released a statement that stated \"To hold talks with the regime, the policies of which led to the deaths of many people, is an extremely unpleasant thing but we must do everything possible and even the impossible to prevent further bloodshed\".\n\nAt least 17 people died from previously received wounds and injuries since then.\n\nOn 21 February 2014. Maidan participants wished last farewell to the perished protesters who they named the Heavenly Hundred. During the event, a mourning Lemko song \"A duck floats on Tysa...\" was heard ().\n\nOn 24 February 2014, the Verkhovna Rada (Ukraine's parliament) decided to propose the next Ukrainian president award the title Hero of Ukraine to protesters killed in the clashes with the riot police.\n\nOn 30 March 2014, The Daily Beast published photos which it stated were of members of the Alfa Group of the Ukrainian security services (SBU) taken on 20 February 2014 and said that these troops may have been trained by members of the Russian special forces.\n\nThere are currently some unidentified activists who were reported killed during the conflict.\nMilitants from the Social-National Assembly and the \"Patriots of Ukraine\" seized and burned on February 18, 2014 the central office of the ruling party - the Party of Regions. A bystander, 57-year-old IT engineer Vladimir Konstantinovich Zakharov who tried to stop the attackers from entering the server room, was beaten to death by Maidan activists.\n\nThe Interior Ministry's main investigations department has dismissed two deaths which occurred during the crisis as having no relation to Euromaidan or civil unrest.\n\nOn 30 January 2014, Minister of Internal Affairs, Vitaliy Zakharchenko officially announced that 30-year-old captain of the Internal Troops of Ukraine Dmytro Donets died from heart attack as a consequence of daily stress from the standoff on Hrushevskoho. Later the same day it became known that Donets was found already dead when his unit was alerted, while being quartered in the village of Stare (Boryspil Raion). On 18 February, six officers were killed during an action against protest camps in Kiev.\n\nAs of 2 March, The Ministry of Internal Affairs reported 18 police-officer fatalities related to the conflict.\n\nUkrainian sources often refer the pro-Euromaidan activists who died during Euromaidan as \"The Heavenly Hundred\".\nIn April 2014 the Kiev City State Administration and Culture Ministry of Ukraine stated that they expected to open a memorial complex \"to the heroes of Heavenly Hundred\" in February 2015, on the occasion of the anniversary of the death activists.\nOn 1 July 2014 the Verkhovna Rada (the parliament of Ukraine) established the Medal \"Order of the Heavenly Hundred Heroes\".\nOn 25 August 2014 President Petro Poroshenko claimed he had called the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election in order to purify parliament of MPs who had supported \"the [January 2014] Dictatorship laws that took the lives of the Heavenly hundred\".\n\nKiev City Council renamed a part of Instytutska Street into Heavenly Hundred Heroes Avenue on 20 November 2014.\n\nPresident Poroshenko decreed on 11 February 2015 that 20 February will annually be commemorated as \"Day of the Heavenly Hundred Heroes\"; his decree also establish (an action plan to accomplish) a museum in Kiev dedicated to Euromaidan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5510605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5510605", "title": "Maria of Aragon, Queen of Portugal", "text": "Maria of Aragon, Queen of Portugal\n\nMaria of Aragon (29 June 1482 – 7 March 1517) was a Spanish infanta, and queen consort of Portugal as the second spouse of Portuguese King Manuel I.\n\nShe was born at Córdoba on 29 June 1482 as the third surviving daughter of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon (the Catholic monarchs). She was the fourth of their five surviving children, and had a stillborn twin sister named Anna.\n\nAs an infanta of Spain, her hand in marriage was very important in European politics; before her marriage to Manuel I of Portugal, her parents entertained the idea of marrying her to King James IV of Scotland. This was at a time when her younger sister Catherine's marriage to Arthur, Prince of Wales, was being planned. Ferdinand and Isabella thought if Maria was Queen of Scotland, the two sisters could keep the peace between their husbands. These plans, however, came to nothing. Her eldest sister Isabella, Princess of Asturias, was the first wife of Manuel I, but her death in 1498 created a necessity for Manuel to remarry; Maria became the next bride of the Portuguese king, reaffirming dynastic links with Spanish royal houses.\n\nManuel and Maria were married in Alcácer do Sal on 30 October 1500, and was granted Viseu and Torres Vedras as her dower. She had 10 children, eight of whom reached adulthood, including King John III of Portugal, Holy Roman Empress Isabella, and Beatrice, Duchess of Savoy.\n\nQueen Maria became known as a fervent Catholic. She supported king Manuel's religious-imperial project, including the plan to conquer the Mamluk's realm, destroy Mecca and Medina and reconquer Christian holy places such as Jerusalem. She co-founded the Jeronimos Monastery in Lisbon.\n\nMaria died in Lisbon on 7 March 1517, and was buried at the Jerónimos Monastery of Belém. She died as a result of her last pregnancy.\n\nIn 1580, the dynastic links from the marriage led to a succession crisis in Portugal that made Philip II of Spain king of Portugal as Philip I of Portugal.\n\nHer marriage with Manuel produced the following children:\n\nHer widowed husband later married a third time, in 1518, also this time from her family: Maria's niece Eleanor of Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "19339129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19339129", "title": "Martialis heureka", "text": "Martialis heureka\n\nMartialis heureka is a species of ant discovered in 2000 from the Amazon rainforest near Manaus, Brazil. It was described as a new species and placed as the sole member of a new subfamily, Martialinae. The generic name means \"from Mars\" and was given due to its unusual morphology, and the species epithet \"heureka\" indicates the surprising discovery. It belongs to the oldest known distinct lineage to have diverged from the ancestors of all other ants.\n\nThe aberrant features of this ant led Stefan P. Cover and Edward O. Wilson to comment that it was an ant that had to be from Mars. The genus name, then, refers to the planet Mars, alluding to the strange characteristics that seem to come from nowhere; the species epithet is from Ancient Greek ηὕρηκα \"I found it\", echoing Archimedes' famous exclamation, meant to epitomize the troubles involved in the rediscovery of the species after the first specimen discovered in a soil sample was lost.\n\nTwo specimens were first discovered by Manfred Verhaagh of the Staatliches Museum für Naturkunde in Karlsruhe, Germany, in 2000, but they were damaged, and a new specimen was collected in 2003 by Christian Rabeling, a graduate student of the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nLike all members of the family Formicidae, these ants have distinctive elbowed antennae, prominent metapleural glands, and distinctive petioles. The ants, though, lack compound eyes, are pale in colour, and lead a subterranean life, preying on small litter organisms. The workers have unusual, elongated mandibles, distinctly basal in their features.\n\nBased on the morphology, the authors suggested the ants lead an underground life, possibly foraging on the surface during the night. The first two specimens were found in soil core samples,while another was found in leaf litter. They probably make use of pre-existing underground cavities,as their legs do not show adaptations for digging.\n\n"}
{"id": "47233760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47233760", "title": "Miracles from Heaven", "text": "Miracles from Heaven\n\nMiracles from Heaven: A Little Girl, Her Journey to Heaven, and Her Amazing Story of Healing is a memoir written by an American author Christy Beam, released on April 14, 2015. The author wrote the book about her daughter Annabel Beam.\n\nThe book is about the author's 10-year-old daughter Annabel Beam, who was diagnosed with a rare terminal stomach disorder. While on a visit home from the hospital she fell while climbing a tree with her older sister, a branch gave way sending Annabel 30 feet down headfirst into the hollow trunk of a cottonwood tree. She was inside the trunk of the tree for several hours where she visits with Jesus who tells her she will be fine. She is finally rescued and taken to a hospital. She woke up at the hospital without any broken bones or internal injuries. After this incident, she no longer felt pain due to her stomach disorder and her doctor confirmed that her rare disease was somehow miraculously cured.\n\nSony Pictures Entertainment has produced a film adaptation, starring Jennifer Garner, Kylie Rogers, Queen Latifah, Martin Henderson, and Eugenio Derbez. It is directed by Patricia Riggen and scripted by Randy Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "50046445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50046445", "title": "My Beautiful Broken Brain", "text": "My Beautiful Broken Brain\n\nMy Beautiful Broken Brain is a 2014 documentary film about the life of 34-year-old Lotje Sodderland after she suffered a hemorrhagic stroke as a result of a congenital vascular malformation in November 2011, initially experiencing aphasia, the complete loss of her ability to read, write, or speak coherently.\n\nDavid Lynch became an executive producer of the film.\n\nThe film starts with a recap of the intracerebral hemorrhage (stroke) and subsequent emergency brain surgery on her parietal and temporal lobes, and follows the life of its protagonist, London resident Lotje Sodderland, in the year that followed, documenting the progress of her recovery and the major setbacks she experienced.\n\nLotje covers some of the daily challenges that she experienced after sustaining injury to her brain through the stroke, not just with dysphasia and apraxia while communicating through expressive verbal language, reading and writing, but also the memory deficits, confusion, cognitive processing and sensory perception changes, over-sensitivity to noise and the sensations of overwhelm, fatigue, frustration, and at times discouragement about future considering the changes in her life. The valuable support provided by her family and friends during this journey of recovery was featured prominently in this documentary. Through extensive in-patient and out-patient rehabilitation that included occupational therapy, speech therapy, visits with both a psychologist and psychiatrist, she makes a profound recovery, despite the post-seizure regression she experienced following the experimental Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) treatments.\n\nLotje began recording video-selfies just a few days after the stroke, while still in the hospital. Large parts of the film consist of material filmed by herself on her iPhone. This together with various sequences showing the world from her point-of-view at that time, including for example visual misperceptions (hallucinations), produce a rather personal storytelling style.\n\nThe film was initiated by its protagonist itself. According to herself, making a film about her struggles was the first linear thought she had after the stroke.\nShe started taking video-selfies of herself while still in hospital, and two weeks later contacted documentary filmmaker Sophie Robinson to enlist her help.\n\nFunding for editing and post-production was collected via Kickstarter between November 28 and December 20, 2013. The initial goal of £30,000 was exceeded by £7340.\n\n\"My Beautiful Broken Brain\" had its world premiere at the 2014 International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam, where it won the DOC U award.\n\nNetflix started streaming the film as a Netflix Original worldwide on March 18, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "13672141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13672141", "title": "My Pokémon Ranch", "text": "My Pokémon Ranch\n\nThis game only works with \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" versions; the Japanese version was updated to receive Pokémon from \"Pokémon Platinum\".\n\n\"My Pokémon Ranch\" is similar in concept to Pokémon Box, and allows players to transfer up to 1,500 of their Pokémon (if they have the Platinum update; without it the limit is 1,000) from up to eight separate \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" Nintendo DS game cards, to a ranch run by Hayley, a friend of Bebe who runs the PC box system in these versions. Here, they can view their Pokémon rendered in 3D, while using their Miis to interact with them.\n\nPlayers do not need to own \"Pokémon Diamond\", \"Pearl\" or \"Platinum\" to play \"My Pokémon Ranch\". Players with or without the Nintendo DS game will be given six starter Pokémon and a new Pokémon at the start of each day. Additionally, each day Hayley will give the player requests for certain Pokémon not in the player's Pokédex to be added to the ranch, along with instructions on where to find them in \"Diamond\", \"Pearl\" and \"Platinum\". It has also been confirmed that players can obtain a special Mew and Phione. Hayley can also trade certain Pokémon she already has in her possession. Eventually, adding more Pokémon to the ranch unlocks new features to the game and expands the ranch.\n\nSimilar to the actions in the Mii Channel's plaza, the Pokémon on the ranch can perform different idle actions, such as talking, playing, and sleeping at other players' ranches. Players are also able to take snapshots of their Pokémon and send them to friends registered on their Wii, as well as downloading the photos in .JPG file to an SD card, and transfer them onto your computer or camera. A simple HUD shows the ability to monitor the time and the number of Pokémon in the ranch. Apart from storing collected Pokémon on the ranch, players are otherwise unable to further train or level up their Pokémon on the ranch.\n\nOn June 18, 2008 an update was made available for the game. Another update was made available on November 5, 2008 in Japan to ensure compatibility with \"Pokémon Platinum\" and to improve and add some features, such as adding 500 more Pokémon, making a total amount of Pokémon go up to 1500.\n\nMost notably, as \"Pokémon Platinum\" essentially introduces 7 new Pokémon in the manner of new forms of previous Pokémon and these can all be placed in Pokémon Ranch and have their forms remain while in the Ranch. However, this will have some effect on \"Pokémon Platinum\".\n\nShaymin's alternate form is activated in a different manner than Giratina's. If the player has the Gracidea in his or her game, the Ranch will recognize it and will unlock the Gracidea as a new toy in the Ranch. Shaymin will normally be Land Forme, however if the player gets the Gracidea and Shaymin touches it, it will transform into its Sky Forme for the duration of the player's Ranch visit. However, if the player removes Shaymin from the Ranch while it is in its Sky Forme, it will revert to Land Forme.\n\nIn \"Pokémon Platinum\", Rotom was given five different forms. Each form represents Rotom possessing a different appliance. They will keep their form upon being transferred to Pokémon Ranch.\n\nVarious changes have occurred for the Ranch too, most notably, a 26th level of the ranch has been added, allowing you to deposit a total of 1500 Pokémon onto the Ranch. This does not give the player any extra rewards though.\n\nAlso in the Ranch there are twelve more animations that the Pokémon will partake in should the screen be left idle. These include water races, wrestling tournaments between the fighting Pokémon, fights between Pokémon rivals (such as Zangoose vs. Seviper, Dialga vs. Palkia, Darkrai vs. Cresselia, and so forth), and a Rotom animation utilizing all its formes.\n\nEleven new toys have also been added, including the aforementioned Gracidea Flower.\n\nWith this update it is possible to change the background music from the default.\n\nIt is now possible to store up to 30 in the game. It is now also possible to copy and delete photos over to or from the SD card in bulk.\n\nThere have also been some changes in regard to Club Look-see. Previously, you could only visit the NPC member's ranches whenever they visited yours and made an offer for you to go. With the \"Pokémon Platinum\" update however, the player now has the option of revisiting ranches that were previously visited. This adds more playability as you can check to see their unique Mii's and specific Ranches at any time.\n\nThe number of Club Look-see members has also been increased from 37 to 40.\n\nOverall, the game has received negative reviews, with an aggregate rating of 46 percent at GameRankings. IGN was disappointed in the game and gave it a 4/10, believing the graphics to be ugly, citing \"absolutely hideous\" Pokémon models, and likening the gameplay to a screensaver, claiming it to be a largely \"sit-n-stare experience.\" However, they had some praise for the Nintendo DS connectivity. WiiWare World, who are currently known as Nintendo Life, also gave it a 4/10, calling it \"half-assed\" and \"obtuse\" and particularly noting the flawed nature of the Pokémon storage system. While they believed that it was \"chock full\" of missed potential, the game was still ideal for younger Pokémon fans. The UK's Official Nintendo Magazine gave the game a below-average score of 48%, finding it hard to justify the 1000 Wii Points price, and believing the game only appeals to \"Pokémon\" completists. Not all reviews were negative, however; Nintendo Power gave it a \"Recommended\" when they reviewed it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53615490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53615490", "title": "Neuralink", "text": "Neuralink\n\nNeuralink is an American neurotechnology company founded by Elon Musk and eight others, reported to be developing implantable brain–computer interfaces (BCIs). The company's headquarters are in San Francisco; it was started in 2016 and was first publicly reported in March 2017. The trademark \"Neuralink\" was purchased from its previous owners in January 2017.\n\n\"Wait But Why\" reported in April 2017 that Musk said the company aims to make devices to treat serious brain diseases in the short-term, with the eventual goal of human enhancement. In June 2016, Musk discussed a science fiction concept called \"neural lace\" that is part of the fictional universe in \"The Culture\", a series of novels by Iain M. Banks.\n\nAs of 2018, the company had applied for a license to open an animal testing facility in San Francisco but apparently had not opened one, and instead carried out research at UC Davis.\n\nAs of 2018, Neuralink is headquartered in San Francisco's Mission District, sharing an office building with OpenAI, another company co-founded by Musk.\n"}
{"id": "44361061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44361061", "title": "Oshunmare", "text": "Oshunmare\n\nOshunmare (known as Ochumaré or Oxumaré in Latin America) is an Orisha. Osumare is the spirit of the rainbow, and Osumare also means rainbow in the Yoruba Language\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2573068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2573068", "title": "Palingenesis", "text": "Palingenesis\n\nPalingenesis (; also palingenesia) is a concept of rebirth or re-creation, used in various contexts in philosophy, theology, politics, and biology. Its meaning stems from Greek \"palin\", meaning \"again\", and \"genesis\", meaning \"birth\".\n\nIn biology, it is another word for recapitulation—the largely discredited hypothesis which talks of the phase in the development of an organism in which its form and structure pass through the changes undergone in the evolution of the species. In political theory, it is a central component of Roger Griffin's analysis of Fascism as a fundamentally modernist ideology. In theology, the word may refer to reincarnation or to Christian spiritual rebirth symbolized by baptism.\n\nThe word \"palingenesis\" or rather \"palingenesia\" () may be traced back to the Stoics, who used the term for the continual re-creation of the universe. Similarly Philo spoke of Noah and his sons as leaders of a renovation or rebirth of the earth, Plutarch of the transmigration of souls, and Cicero of his own return from exile.\n\nIn the Gospel of Matthew Jesus is quoted in Greek (although his historical utterance would most likely have been in Aramaic) using the word \"παλιγγενεσία\" (\"palingenesia\") to describe the Last Judgment foreshadowing the event of the regeneration of a new world. Palingenesia is thus as much the result of, or reason for, the Last Judgement as it is directly the Judgement itself.\n\nIn philosophy it denotes in its broadest sense the theory (e.g. of the Pythagoreans) that the human soul does not die with the body but is born again in new incarnations. It is thus the equivalent of metempsychosis. The term has a narrower and more specific use in the system of Schopenhauer, who applied it to his doctrine that the will does not die but manifests itself afresh in new individuals. He thus repudiates the primitive metempsychosis doctrine which maintains the reincarnation of the particular soul.\n\nRobert Burton, in \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" (1628), writes, \"The Pythagoreans defend metempsychosis and palingenesia, that souls go from one body to another.\"\n\nThe 17th century English physician-philosopher Sir Thomas Browne in his \"Religio Medici\" (1643) declared a belief in palingenesis, stating,\n\nA plant or vegetable consumed to ashes, to a contemplative and school Philosopher seems utterly destroyed, and the form to have taken his leave for ever: But to a sensible Artist the forms are not perished, but withdrawn into their incombustible part, where they lie secure from the action of that devouring element. This is made good by experience, which can from the ashes of a plant revive the plant, and from its cinders recall it into its stalk and leaves again.'\nPalingenesis is the subject of the Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges's last ever short story, \"The Rose of Paracelsus\" (1983)\n\nIn Antiquities of the Jews (11.3.9) Josephus used the term \"palingenesis\" for the national restoration of the Jews in their homeland after the Babylonian exile. The term is commonly used in Modern Greek to refer to the rebirth of the Greek nation after the Greek Revolution. British political theorist Roger Griffin has coined the term \"palingenetic ultranationalism\" as a core tenet of fascism, stressing the notion of fascism as an ideology of rebirth of a state or empire in the image of that which came before it – its ancestral political underpinnings. Examples of this are Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany. Under Benito Mussolini, Italy purported to establish an empire as the second incarnation of the Roman Empire, while Adolf Hitler's regime was seen as being the third palingenetic incarnation of the German \"Reich\" - beginning first with the Holy Roman Empire (\"First Reich\"), followed by Bismarck's German Empire (\"Second Reich\") and then Nazi Germany (\"Third Reich\").\n\nMoreover, Griffin's work on palingenesis in fascism analysed the pre-war Fin De Siecle Western society. In doing so he built on Frank Kermode's work \"The Sense of an Ending\" which sought to understand the belief in the death of society at the end of the century. As part of this death and rebirth Fascism sought to target what it perceived as degenerative elements of society, notably decadence, materialism, rationalism and enlightenment ideology. Out of this death society would regenerate by returning to a more spiritual and emotional state, with the role of the individual core. This built on the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche, Gustave Le Bon and Henri Bergson's work on the relationship between the mass and the individual with the individual's actions necessary to achieving a state of regeneration.\n\nChilean dictator Augusto Pinochet expressed his post-coup project in government as a national rebirth inspired in Diego Portales, a figure of the early republic:\nIn modern biology (e.g. Haeckel and Fritz Müller), \"palingenesis\" has been used for the exact reproduction of ancestral features by inheritance, as opposed to kenogenesis, in which the inherited characteristics are modified by environment.\n\nIt was also applied to the quite different process supposed by Karl Beurlen to be the mechanism for his orthogenetic theory of evolution.\n"}
{"id": "44672439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44672439", "title": "Parabolic bursting", "text": "Parabolic bursting\n\nA parabolic bursting neuron has the characteristic that the frequency of spikes increase and decrease through the burst. Thus the frequency curve of a given burst takes the form of a parabola, hence the name \"parabolic burst\".\n\nOne such neuron that parabolically bursts is the\" Aplysia\" R-15 neuron.\n"}
{"id": "2428953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2428953", "title": "Patria disaster", "text": "Patria disaster\n\nThe \"Patria\" disaster was the sinking on 25 November 1940 by the Jewish paramilitary organization Haganah of a French-built ocean liner, the 11,885-ton , in the port of Haifa, killing 267 people and injuring 172.\n\nAt the time of the sinking, \"Patria\" was carrying about 1,800 Jewish refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe whom the British authorities were deporting from Mandatory Palestine to Mauritius because they lacked entry permits. Zionist organizations opposed the deportation, and the underground paramilitary Haganah group planted a bomb intended to disable the ship to prevent it from leaving Haifa.\n\nThe Haganah claims to have miscalculated the effects of the explosion. The bomb blew the steel frame off one full side of the ship and the ship sank in less than 16 minutes, trapping hundreds in the hold. The British allowed the survivors to remain in Palestine on humanitarian grounds. Who was responsible and the true reason why \"Patria\" sank remained controversial mysteries until 1957, when Munya Mardor, the person who planted the bomb, published a book about his experiences.\n\nBefore the government of Nazi Germany decided in 1941 to exterminate all Jews in Europe, its policy allowed the reduction of Jewish numbers in Europe by emigration. Jewish organizations, both mainstream and dissident, ran operations that tried to bring Jews from Europe to Palestine in violation of the immigration rules applied by the British government.\n\nThis required cooperation with the Nazi authorities, who saw the opportunity to make trouble for Britain as well as to get rid of Jews. The \"Zentralstelle für jüdische Auswanderung\" (Central Office for Jewish Emigration or ZjA) worked under the supervision of Adolf Eichmann, organizing Jewish emigration from the Nazi-controlled parts of Europe. In September 1940 the ZjA chartered three ships, , and , to take Jewish refugees from the Romanian port of Tulcea to Palestine. Their passengers consisted of about 3,600 refugees from the Jewish communities of Vienna, Danzig and Prague.\n\n\"Pacific\" reached Palestinian waters on 1 November, followed by \"Milos\" a few days later. The Royal Navy intercepted the ships and escorted them to the port of Haifa. Warned in advance of the ships' arrival, the British Colonial Office was determined to refuse entry to the immigrants. With the security situation in the region improving following British successes in the Western Desert Campaign, the Colonial Office decided it was less risky to provoke Jewish anger than to risk an Arab revolt, and that an example would be made to dissuade other potential immigrants from making the attempt.\n\nThe British High Commissioner for Palestine, Sir Harold MacMichael, issued a deportation order on 20 November, ordering that the refugees be taken to the British Indian Ocean territory of Mauritius and the Caribbean territory of Trinidad.\n\nThe refugees were transferred to another ship, SS \"Patria\", for the voyage to Mauritius. \"Patria\" was an 11,885-ton ocean liner dating from 1913 that the French company Messageries Maritimes ran between Marseille and the Levant. She had reached the Port of Haifa shortly before Italy declared war on France and Britain, and then remained in port for safety. After the French surrender to Nazi Germany the British authorities in Haifa first detained \"Patria\" and then seized her for use as a troop ship. As a civilian liner she was permitted to carry 805 people including her crew, but after being requisitioned she was authorised to carry 1,800 troops (excluding the crew). She still only had enough lifeboats for the original 805 passengers and crew, so these were supplemented with liferafts.\n\nThe refugees from \"Pacific\" and \"Milos\" were soon transferred to \"Patria\". \"Atlantic\" arrived on 24 November and the transfer of eight hundred of its 1,645 passengers began.\n\nMeanwhile, Zionist organizations were considering how to thwart the deportation plan. A general strike had little effect. The Irgun tried unsuccessfully to place a bomb on \"Patria\" to disable her. The Haganah also sought to disable \"Patria\", with the intention of forcing her to stay in port for repairs and thus gaining time to press the British to rescind the deportation order. The Haganah officer in charge of the operation was Yitzhak Sadeh, authorised by Moshe Sharett, who led the Political Department of the Jewish Agency in the temporary absence of David Ben-Gurion, who had left for the United States on 22 September and did not return until 13 February 1941.\n\nOn 22 November Haganah agents smuggled a bomb aboard the ship, timed to explode at 9 p.m. that day. It failed, so a second, more powerful bomb was smuggled aboard on 24 November and hidden next to the ship's inner hull. At 9 a.m. on 25 November, it exploded. The Haganah had miscalculated the effect of the charge and it blew a large hole measuring in the ship's side, sinking her in only 16 minutes.\n\nWhen the bomb exploded, \"Patria\" was carrying 1,770 refugees transferred from \"Pacific\" and \"Milos\" and had taken on board 134 passengers from \"Atlantic\". Most were rescued by British and Arab boats that rushed to the scene. However, 267 people were declared missing – over 200 Jewish refugees plus 50 crew and British soldiers – and another 172 were injured. Many of the dead were trapped in \"Patria\"s hold and were unable to escape as she rolled on her side and sank. 209 bodies were eventually recovered and buried in Haifa.\n\nThe surviving refugees from \"Patria\", together with the remaining 1,560 passengers of \"Atlantic\", were taken to the Atlit detainee camp. Later, after an international campaign, the survivors of \"Patria\" were given permits to stay in Palestine. However, the other \"Atlantic\" passengers were deported to Mauritius on 9 December. After the war they were given the choice of where to go; 81% chose Palestine and arrived there in August 1945.\n\nIn December 1945 \"Ha-Po'el ha-Tza'ir\" (\"Young Worker\") a Mapai party newspaper, commented \"On one bitter and impetuous day, a malicious hand sank the ship\". The comment was written by the deputy editor, Israel Cohen, who did not know that all of the people responsible were Mapai leaders. Angered by the newspaper's comments, some Haganah leaders sent Ben-Gurion's son Amos to the newspaper office where he slapped the editor, Isaac Lofven, across the face.\nA bitter debate over the correctness of the operation raged in secret within the Zionist leadership. The decision had been made by an activist faction, without consulting more moderate members according to normal procedure, and this caused serious internal divisions that persisted for many years. An effort was made to enshrine the incident as an icon of Zionist determination, but this largely failed. As early as 15 December 1945 Isaac Lofven warned a Mapai meeting against trying to \"sanctify\" the tragedy.\n\nSome leaders of the Yishuv (the Jewish community in Palestine) argued that the loss of life had not been in vain, as \"Patria\"s survivors had been allowed to stay in the country. Others declared that the Haganah had had no right to risk the lives of the immigrants, as they had not decided of their own free will to become participants in the underground Jewish conflict with the British authorities.\n\nThe Haganah's role was not publicly revealed and a story was put out that the deportees, out of despair, had sunk the ship themselves (the version recounted, for example, by Arthur Koestler). For years Britain believed the Irgun was probably responsible.\n\nThe Haganah's role was finally publicly disclosed in 1957 when Munya Mardor, the operative who had planted the bomb, wrote an account of his activities in the Jewish underground. He recounted, \"There was never any intent to cause the ship to sink. The British would have used this against the Jewish population and show it as an act of sabotage against the war effort\". He said that it was in the highest interest of the Haganah to fight the sanctions of the British White Paper of 1939, and the primary objective was to avoid casualties. The British estimated 267 people were killed, but neither the Jewish Agency nor the Haganah could establish how many people escaped the sinking and how many had died.\n\nMunya Mardor continued to work at the port in order to remove suspicion from himself. The Haganah also put up an investigative body to find out why such a relatively small amount of explosives could create such a large hole in the ship. The Haganah investigators concluded that the boat's superstructure was in poor condition, and therefore unable to withstand the pressure of the explosion.\n\nRudolf Hirsch, a Jewish-German writer who had emigrated to Palestine in 1939, was a close associate of Arnold Zweig there, and later remigrated with Zweig to East Germany, published a novel about the incident, \"Patria Israel\", in which he also explicitly refers to Mardor's account.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "770461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770461", "title": "Pietro Aretino", "text": "Pietro Aretino\n\nPietro Aretino (19 or 20 April 1492 – 21 October 1556) was an Italian author, playwright, poet, satirist and blackmailer, who wielded influence on contemporary art and politics and developed modern literary pornography.\n\nHis father was Luca Del Tura, a shoemaker from Arezzo, who abandoned his family to join the militia. The father later returned to Arezzo, finally dying in poverty at the age of 85, unforgiven by his son, who never acknowledged the paternal name, taking 'Aretino' (that is 'of or pertaining to Arezzo') as a surname.\n\nHis mother was Margherita, known as Tita, Bonci. Either before or after the abandonment (we do not know which), she entered into a lasting relationship with a local noble, Luigi Bacci, who supported Tita, Pietro and his two sisters and brought up Pietro as part of his own family.\n\nAretino spent a formative decade in Perugia, before being sent, highly recommended, to Rome. There Agostino Chigi, the rich banker and patron of Raphael, took him under his wing.\n\nWhen Hanno the elephant, pet of Pope Leo X, died in 1516, Aretino penned a satirical pamphlet entitled \"The Last Will and Testament of the Elephant Hanno\". The fictitious will cleverly mocked the leading political and religious figures of Rome at the time, including Pope Leo X himself. The pamphlet was such a success that it started Aretino's career and established him as a famous satirist, ultimately known as \"the Scourge of Princes\".\n\nAretino prospered, living from hand to mouth as a hanger-on in the literate circle of his patron, sharpening his satirical talents on the gossip of politics and the Papal Curia, and turning the coarse Roman pasquinade into a rapier weapon of satire, until his sixteen ribald \"Sonetti Lussuriosi\" (Lust Sonnets) written to accompany Giulio Romano's exquisitely beautiful but utterly pornographic series of drawings engraved by Marcantonio Raimondi under the title \"I Modi\" finally caused such outrage that he had to temporarily flee Rome.\n\nAfter Leo's death in 1521, his patron was Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, whose competitors for the papal throne felt the sting of Aretino's scurrilous lash. The installation of the Dutch pope Adrian VI (\"la tedesca tigna\" in Pietro's words) instead encouraged Aretino to seek new patrons away from Rome, mainly with Federico II Gonzaga in Mantua, and with the condottiero Giovanni de' Medici (\"Giovanni delle Bande Nere\"). The election of his old Medici patron as Pope Clement VII sent him briefly back to Rome, but death threats and an attempted assassination from one of the victims of his pen, Bishop Giovanni Giberti, in July 1525, set him wandering through northern Italy in the service of various noblemen, distinguished by his wit, audacity and brilliant and facile talents, until he settled permanently in 1527, in Venice, \"the\" anti-Papal city of Italy, \"seat of all vices\" Aretino noted with gusto.\n\nHe was a lover of men, having declared himself \"a sodomite\" since birth. In a letter to Giovanni de' Medici written in 1524 Aretino enclosed a satirical poem saying that due to a sudden aberration he had \"fallen in love with a female cook and temporarily switched from boys to girls...\" (\"My Dear Boy\"). In his comedy \"Il marescalco\", the lead man is overjoyed to discover that the woman he has been forced to marry is really a page boy in disguise. While at court in Mantua he developed a crush on a young man called Bianchino, and annoyed Duke Federico with a request to plead with the boy on the writer's behalf.\n\nSafe in Venice, Aretino became a blackmailer, extorting money from men who had sought his guidance in vice. He \"kept all that was famous in Italy in a kind of state of siege\", in Jakob Burckhardt's estimation. Francis I of France and Charles V pensioned him at the same time, each hoping for some damage to the reputation of the other. \"The rest of his relations with the great is mere beggary and vulgar extortion,\" according to Burckhardt. Addison states that \"he laid half Europe under contribution\".\n\nApart from both sacred and profane texts—a satire of high-flown Renaissance Neoplatonic dialogues is set in a brothel — and comedies such as \"La cortigiana\" and \"La talenta\", Aretino is remembered above all for his letters, full of literary flattery that could turn to blackmail. They circulated widely in manuscript and he collected them and published them at intervals winning as many enemies as it did fame, and earned him the dangerous nickname Ariosto gave him: \"flagello dei principi\" (\"scourge of princes\"). The first English translations of some of Aretino's racier material have been coming onto the market recently.\n\n\"La cortigiana\" is a brilliant parody of Castiglione's \"Il Cortegiano\", and features the adventures of a Sienese gentleman, Messer Maco, who travels to Rome to become a cardinal. He would also like to win himself a mistress, but when he falls in love with a girl he sees in a window, he realizes that only as a courtier would he be able to win her. In mockery of Castiglione's advice on how to become the perfect courtier, a charlatan proceeds to teach Messer Maco how to behave as a courtier: he must learn how to deceive and flatter, and sit hours in front of the mirror.\n\nAretino was a close friend of Titian, who painted his portrait (\"illustrations\") at least three times. The early portrait is a psychological study of alarming modernity. Clement VII made Aretino a Knight of Rhodes, and Julius III named him a Knight of St. Peter, but the chain he wears for his 1545 portrait may have merely been jewelry. In his strictly-for-publication letters to patrons Aretino would often add a verbal portrait to Titian's painted one.\n\nAretino is frequently mentioned in English works of the Elizabethan and later periods and differently appreciated, in comments ranging from 'It was one of the wittiest knaves that ever God made' of Nashe (\"The Unfortunate Traveller\") to 'that notorious ribald of Arezzo' of Milton (\"Areopagitico\") \n\nHe is said to have died of suffocation from \"laughing too much\".\n\nThe English traveller Sir John Reresby visited \"the obscene profane poet\" Aretino's grave in San Luca, Venice in the mid-1650s. He relates that the following epitaph had been removed by the inquisitors: \"Qui jace Aretin, poeta Tusco, qui dice mal d'ogni uno fuora di Dio; scusandosi dicendo, Io no'l cognosco.\" This he translates as \"Here Aretin, the Tuscan poet, lies, who all the world abused but God, and why? he said he knew him not.\"\n\nHowever, the epitaph, in hendecasyllables a maiore, was a sarcastic one, attributed to Catholic Bishop Paolo Giovio, composed when Aretino was still alive:\n\nIn 2007, the composer Michael Nyman set some of Aretino's \"Sonetti lussuriosi\" to music under the title \"\". Once again, Aretino's texts proved controversial: at a 2008 performance at Cadogan Hall, London, the printed programs were withdrawn following allegations of obscenity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4703626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4703626", "title": "Reproductive system disease", "text": "Reproductive system disease\n\nA reproductive system disease is any disease of the reproductive system.\n\nReproductive tract infection (RTI) are infections that affect the reproductive tract, which is part of the Reproductive System. For females, reproductive tract infections can affect the upper reproductive tract (fallopian tubes, ovary and uterus) and the lower reproductive tract (vagina, cervix and vulva); for males these infections affect the penis, testicles, urethra or the vas deferens. The three types of reproductive tract infections are endogenous infections, iatrogenic infections and the more commonly known sexually transmitted infections. Each has its own specific causes and symptoms, caused by a bacterium, virus, fungus or other organism. Some infections are easily treatable and can be cured, some are more difficult, and some are non curable such as AIDS and herpes.\n\nExamples of congenital abnormalities of the reproductive system include:\n\nExamples of cancers of the reproductive system include:\n\nExamples of functional problems of the reproductive system include:\n\nIt is also known that disruption of the endocrine system by certain chemicals adversely affects the development of the reproductive system and can cause vaginal cancer. Many other reproductive diseases have also been link to exposure to synthetic and environmental chemicals. Common chemicals with known links to reproductive disorders include: lead, dioxins and dioxin-like compounds, styrene, toluene, BPA (Bisphenol A) and pesticides.\n"}
{"id": "18018771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018771", "title": "Sander Thoenes", "text": "Sander Thoenes\n\nSander Thoenes (November 7, 1968 – September 21, 1999) was a Dutch journalist who was killed, near Dili in East Timor, by soldiers of Indonesian army. He was shot when their paths crossed on a road as the Indonesians withdrew from the territory.\n\nThoenes was born in Enschede, the Netherlands, the youngest of three brothers. He was educated at Gymnasium St. Jacobus college in Enschede (1981-1987) and studied English literature and modern Russian history at Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts, USA (1987-1992). During his time at Hampshire college Thoenes learned to speak and write Russian fluently.\n\nAfter studying for his journalism career at the Centre for Investigative Reporting in San Francisco he moved to Moscow in August, 1992. Here Thoenes worked for the English language paper Moscow Times. He went on to write for the Dutch weekly Vrij Nederland and served as correspondent for U.S. News and World Report where he reported from Chechnya in 1995.\n\nIn 1996 he relocated to Almaty, Kazakhstan and covered Central Asia, including Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Afghanistan for the Financial Times. In September, 1997 he moved to Jakarta, Indonesia, still working as a correspondent for the Financial Times. There he reported the Asian Financial Crisis and the fall of President Suharto.\n\nOn September 21, 1999, Thoenes was killed by soldiers from a company of the Indonesian Army's Battalion 745 as the unit withdrew from the territory, carrying out a deliberate, government-directed, scorched-earth policy as it went. These murders were just one in a string of similar incidents that marked the passage of the unit westward along the coast-road toward the Indonesian border. Thoenes was riding pillion on a local motorcycle taxi in the neighborhood of Becora, just east of Dili, when he encountered the column of motor-cyclists and heavy lorries as it approached Dili from the opposite direction. Australian-led UN peace-keepers discovered Thoenes’ body with gunshot-wounds in the back-yard of a house on a side-road. It was concluded Thoenes had been moved off the road to delay his being found and that he had also been shot at close range, with deliberation. Florindo Araujo, Thoenes' motorcycle taxi driver, told reporters that he was stopped by at least six men wearing gray Indonesian police uniforms at a roadblock while en route to Becora. Araujo and Thoenes sought to flee. Araujo managed to reach cover in the bush nearby and hide. He witnessed the execution of the injured Thoenes at the road-side. Two Indonesian army officers, Lt. Camilo dos Santos and Maj. Jacob Djoko Sarosa, were later blamed for his murder by a UN special investigator.\n\nThoenes' death marked the first time a foreign reporter was killed in East Timor since 1975. In 2000, he received a posthumous press freedom award from the Washington D.C.-based National Press Club (NPC).\n\nThe incident was the subject of a documentary, broadcast in October 2013, by fellow Dutch journalist Step Vaessen. On 21 September 1999, Stephanie was reporting from central Dili, together with her husband Andries, for Nederlandse Omroep Stichting. She still works in the region, now as the Djakarta correspondent for international broadcaster Al Jazeera English. The film was part of the \"Al Jazeera Correspondent\" series and featured an interview by the veteran South-East Asia journalist Jon Swain, who narrowly avoided the same fate later that day, nearby on the same road. Vaessen interviewed General Wiranto, the overall Indonesian military commander at the time and former Presidential candidate, and BJ Habibie the President of Indonesia in 1999. The General suggested that the military had to obey government policy, whilst the President suggested he had no personal responsibility for the military's actions. The international community tends to indict only those who are already disowned.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" set up the Sander Thoenes Prize in his honour. The award offers recent journalism graduates, each year, a three-month internship at the \"Financial Times\" headquarters in London and a scholarship to cover living expenses.\n\nThe Jakarta Foreign Correspondents Club (JFCC) announced a scholarship fund in his honor on September 7, 2006. The annual JFCC scholarship is awarded to support the training of East Timorese journalists.\n\nHampshire College, Thoenes' alma mater in Amherst MA. has the SANDER THOENES DIVISION II AND DIVISION III RESEARCH AWARD. Awards are made from an endowment established by his friends from Hampshire and around the world. The award is given to Division III students working in journalism; documentary photography, film or video; international relations; globalization; peace-building; civil society and human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "27800985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27800985", "title": "Stoneyisland Man", "text": "Stoneyisland Man\n\nStoneyisland Man is the name given to a bog body discovered in the Stoneyisland Bog, Gortanumera, County Galway, Ireland 13 May 1929.\n\nTurf-cutters James Dolphin, Thomas Rodgers and John Spain uncovered a human skeleton while working on Dolphin's bank, located towards the centre of Stoneyisland Bog. It was first thought to be the remains of a Mr. Ward of Ballyshrule who had been missing for some time, but it was later revealed to be over five thousand years old.\n\n\"It was found lying on its back within a few inches of the marl, at the base of the bog, beneath of uncut turf. The skeleton was intact with the arms outstretched at right angles to the body. No implements were found with the skeleton, but Mr. Dolphin said at the time that they had previously found tree stumps and ashes at higher depths in the bog. He also claimed to have found a dugout canoe at a depth of , while cutting turf in another part of the bog on a previous occasion. Mr. T. Shea, who was in charge of a section of the Ordnance Survey, operating in the district at the time, examined the remains. He excavated the skeleton and had it examined by Professor Shea of the Anatomical Museum, University College, Galway.\"\n\nProfessor Shea's conclusions were that \"the body had not sunk slowly down from an originally higher level in the bog, but was lying in the position and at the level where it originally lay.\" He believed that the outstretched arms indicated that the person had drowned, sank to the bottom of what was then a lake, and the bog grew over it.\n\nHis further conclusions were that the body was of a man, aged about forty, five foot two in height. \"The lower jaw and teeth, and a large number of the limbs bones were peculiar to prehistoric skeletons in Western Europe. The period of the skeleton was further determined by the degree of flattening of some of the arm and leg bones which are characteristic of skeletons of Neolithic man.\"\n\nPollen and peat analysis dated the remains to sometime after 4500 BCE. Several radiocarbon datings dated the remains between 3320–3220 BC.\n"}
{"id": "2289941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2289941", "title": "Terror management theory", "text": "Terror management theory\n\nTerror management theory (TMT) is an evolutionary psychology theory originally proposed by Jeff Greenberg, Sheldon Solomon, and Tom Pyszczynski and codified in their book \"The Worm at the Core: On the Role of Death in Life\" (2015). It proposes that a basic psychological conflict results from having a self-preservation instinct whilst realizing that death is inevitable and to some extent unpredictable. This conflict produces terror, and the terror is then managed by embracing cultural values, or symbolic systems that act to provide life with enduring meaning and value. \n\nExamples of cultural values that impact an individual's terror of death are those that purport to offer literal immortality (e.g. belief in afterlife, religion). However, TMT also argues that other cultural values – including those that are seemingly unrelated to death – offer symbolic immortality. For example, values of national identity, posterity, cultural perspectives on sex, and human superiority over animals have been linked to death concerns. In many cases these values are thought to offer symbolic immortality either a) by providing the sense that one is part of something greater that will ultimately outlive the individual (e.g. country, lineage, species), or b) by making one's symbolic identity superior to biological nature (i.e. you are a personality, which makes you more than a glob of cells).\n\nBecause cultural values determine that which is meaningful, they are also the foundation for self-esteem. TMT describes self-esteem as being the personal, subjective measure of how well an individual is living up to their cultural values.\n\nTMT is derived from anthropologist Ernest Becker's 1973 Pulitzer Prize-winning work of nonfiction \"The Denial of Death\", in which Becker argues most human action is taken to ignore or avoid the inevitability of death. The terror of absolute annihilation creates such a profound – albeit subconscious – anxiety in people that they spend their lives attempting to make sense of it. On large scales, societies build symbols: laws, religious meaning systems, cultures, and belief systems to explain the significance of life, define what makes certain characteristics, skills, and talents extraordinary, reward others whom they find exemplify certain attributes, and punish or kill others who do not adhere to their cultural worldview. On an individual level, self-esteem provides a buffer against death-related anxiety.\n\nCultural anthropologist Ernest Becker asserted in his 1973 book \"The Denial of Death\" that humans, as intelligent animals, are able to grasp the inevitability of death. They therefore spend their lives building and believing in cultural elements that illustrate how to make themselves stand out as individuals and give their lives significance and meaning. Death creates an anxiety in humans; it strikes at unexpected and random moments, and its nature is essentially unknowable, causing people to spend most of their time and energy to explain, forestall, and avoid it.\n\nBecker expounded upon the previous writings of Sigmund Freud, Søren Kierkegaard, Norman O. Brown, and Otto Rank. According to clinical psychiatrist Morton Levitt, Becker replaces the Freudian preoccupation with sexuality with the fear of death as the primary motivation in human behavior.\n\nPeople desire to think of themselves as beings of value and worth with a feeling of permanence, a concept in psychology known as self-esteem. This feeling counters the cognitive dissonance created by an individual's realization that they may be no more important than any other living thing. Becker refers to high self-esteem as heroism: \n\nThe rationale behind decisions regarding one's own health can be explored through a terror management model. A 2008 research article in Psychological Review proposes a three-part model for understanding how awareness of death can ironically subvert health-promoting behaviors by redirecting one's focus towards behaviors that build self-esteem instead: \"Proposition 1 suggests that conscious thoughts about death can instigate health-oriented responses aimed at removing death-related thoughts from current focal attention. Proposition 2 suggests that the unconscious resonance of death-related cognition promotes self-oriented defenses directed toward maintaining, not one's health, but a sense of meaning and self-esteem. The last proposition suggests that confrontations with the physical body may undermine symbolic defenses and thus present a previously unrecognized barrier to health promotion activities.\"\n\nTerror management theorists consider TMT to be compatible with the theory of evolution: Valid fears of dangerous things have an adaptive function that helped facilitate the survival of our ancestors' genes. However, generalized existential anxiety resulting from the clash between a desire for life and awareness of the inevitability of death is neither adaptive nor selected for. TMT views existential anxiety as an unfortunate byproduct of these two highly adaptive human proclivities rather than as an adaptation that the evolutionary process selected for its advantages. Just as human bipedalism confers advantages as well as disadvantages, death anxiety is an inevitable part of our intelligence and awareness of dangers.\n\nAnxiety in response to the inevitability of death threatened to undermine adaptive functioning and therefore needed amelioration. TMT posits that humankind used the same intellectual capacities that gave rise to this problem to fashion cultural beliefs and values that provided protection against this potential anxiety. TMT considers these cultural beliefs (even unpleasant and frightening ones, such as ritual human sacrifice) when they manage potential death anxiety in a way that promotes beliefs and behaviors which facilitated the functioning and survival of the collective.\n\nHunter-gatherers used their emerging cognitive abilities to facilitate solving practical problems, such as basic needs for nutrition, mating, and tool-making. As these abilities evolved, an explicit awareness of death also emerged. But once this awareness materialized, the potential for terror that it created put pressure on emerging conceptions of reality. Any conceptual formation that was to be widely accepted by the group needed to provide a means of managing this terror.\n\nOriginally, the emergence of morality evolved to facilitate co-existence within groups. Together with language, morality served pragmatic functions that extended survival. The struggle to deny the finality of death co-opted and changed the function of these cultural inventions. For example, Neanderthals might have begun burying their dead as a means of avoiding unpleasant odors, disease-infested parasites, or dangerous scavengers. But during the Upper Paleolithic era, these pragmatic burial practices appear to have become imbued with layers of ritual performance and supernatural beliefs, suggested by the elaborate decoration of bodies with thousands of beads or other markers. Food and other necessities were also included within the burial chamber, indicating the potential for a belief system that included life after death. In many human cultures today, funerals are viewed primarily as cultural events, viewed through the lens of morality and language, with little thought given to the utilitarian origins of burying the dead.\n\nEvolutionary history also indicates that \"the costs of ignoring threats have outweighed the costs of ignoring opportunities for self-development.\" This reinforces the concept that abstract needs for individual and group self-esteem may continue to be selected for by evolution, even when they sometimes confer risks to physical health and well-being.\n\nSelf-esteem lies at the heart of TMT and is a fundamental aspect of its core paradigms. TMT fundamentally seeks to elucidate the causes and consequences of a need for self-esteem. Theoretically, it draws heavily from Ernest Becker's conceptions of culture and self-esteem (Becker, 1971; Becker, 1973). TMT not only attempts to explain the concept of self-esteem, it also tries to explain \"why\" we need self-esteem. One explanation is that self-esteem is used as a coping mechanism for anxiety. It helps people control their sense of terror and nullify the realization that humans are just animals trying to manage the world around them. According to TMT, self-esteem is a sense of personal value that is created by beliefs in the validity of one's cultural worldview, and the belief that one is living up to the cultural standards created by that worldview.\n\nCritically, Hewstone \"et al.\" (2002) have questioned the causal direction between self-esteem and death-anxiety, evaluating whether one's self-esteem comes from their desire to reduce their death anxiety, or if death anxiety arises from a lack of self-esteem. In other words, an individual's suppression of death anxiety may arise from their overall need to increase their self-esteem in a positive manner.\n\nResearch has demonstrated that self-esteem can play an important role in physical health. In some cases, people may be so concerned with their physical appearance and boosting their self-esteem that they ignore problems or concerns with their own physical health. Arndt \"et al.\" (2009) conducted three studies to examine how peer perceptions and social acceptance of smokers contributes to their quitting, as well as if, and why these people continue smoking for outside reasons, even when faced with thoughts of death and anti-smoking prompts. Tanning and exercising were also looked at in the researchers' studies. The studies found that people are influenced by the situations around them. Specifically, Arndt \"et al.\" (2009) found in terms of their self-esteem and health, that participants who saw someone exercising were more likely to increase their intentions to exercise. In addition, the researchers found in study two that how participants reacted to an anti-smoking commercial was affected by their motivation for smoking and the situation which they were in. For instance, people who smoked for extrinsic reasons and were previously prompted with death reminders were more likely to be compelled by the anti-smoking message.\n\nAn individual's level of self-consciousness can affect their views on life and death. To a point, increasing self-consciousness is adaptive in that it helps prevent awareness of danger. However, research has demonstrated that there may be diminishing returns from this phenomenon. Individuals with higher levels of self-consciousness sometimes have increased death cognition, and a more negative outlook on life, than those with reduced self-consciousness.\n\nConversely, self-esteem can work in the opposite manner. Research has confirmed that individuals with higher self-esteem, particularly in regard to their behavior, have a more positive attitude towards their life. Specifically, death cognition in the form of anti-smoking warnings weren't effective for smokers and in fact, increased their already positive attitudes towards the behavior. The reasons behind individuals' optimistic attitudes towards smoking after mortality was made salient, indicate that people use positivity as a buffer against anxiety. Continuing to hold certain beliefs even after they are shown to be flawed creates cognitive dissonance regarding current information and past behavior, and the way to alleviate this is to simply reject new information. Therefore, anxiety buffers such as self-esteem allow individuals to cope with their fears more easily. Death cognition may in fact cause negative reinforcement that leads people to further engage in dangerous behaviors (smoking in this instance) because accepting the new information would lead to a loss of self-esteem, increasing vulnerability and awareness of mortality.\n\nThe mortality salience hypothesis (MS) states that if indeed one's cultural worldview, or one's self-esteem, serves a death-denying function, then threatening these constructs should produce defenses aimed at restoring psychological equanimity (i.e., returning the individual to a state of feeling invulnerable). In the MS paradigm, these \"threats\" are simply experiential reminders of one's own death. This can, and has, taken many different forms in a variety of study paradigms (e.g., asking participants to write about their own death; conducting the experiment near funeral homes or cemeteries; having participants watch graphic depictions of death, etc.). Like the other TMT hypotheses, the literature supporting the MS hypothesis is vast and diverse. For a meta analysis of MS research, see Burke \"et al.\" (2010).\n\nExperimentally, the MS hypothesis has been tested in close to 200 empirical articles. After participants in an experiment are asked to write about their own death (vs. a neutral, non-death control topic, such as dental pain), and then following a brief delay (distal, worldview/self-esteem defenses work the best after a delay; see Greenberg \"et al.\" (1994) for a discussion), the participants' defenses are measured. In one early TMT study assessing the MS hypothesis, Greenberg \"et al.\" (1990) had Christian participants evaluate other Christian and Jewish students that were similar demographically, but differed in their religious affiliation. After being reminded of their death (experimental MS induction), Christian participants evaluated fellow Christians more positively, and Jewish participants more negatively, relative to the control condition. Conversely, bolstering self-esteem in these scenarios leads to less worldview defense and derogation of dissimilar others.\n\nMortality salience has an influence on individuals and their decisions regarding their health. Cox \"et al.\" (2009) discuss mortality salience in terms of suntanning. Specifically, the researchers found that participants who were prompted with the idea that pale was more socially attractive along with mortality reminders, tended to lean towards decisions that resulted in more protective measures from the sun. The participants were placed in two different conditions; one group of participants were given an article relating to the fear of death, while the control group received an article unrelated to death dealing with the fear of public speaking. Additionally, they gave one group an article pertaining to the message that \"bronze is beautiful,\" one relating to the idea that \"pale is pretty,\" and one neutral article that did not speak of tan or pale skin tones. Finally, after introducing a delay activity, the researchers gave the participants a five-item questionnaire asking them about their future sun-tanning behaviors. The study illustrated that when tan skin was associated with attractiveness, mortality salience positively affected people's intentions to suntan; however, when pale skin was associated with attractiveness people's intentions to tan decreased.\n\nStudies have shown that mortality and self-esteem are important factors of the terror management theory. Jessop \"et al.\" (2008) study this relationship within four studies that all examine how people react when they are given information on risks, specifically, in terms of the mortality related to the risks of driving. More specifically, the researchers were exploring how participants acted in terms of self-esteem, and its impact on how mortality-related health-risk information would be received. Overall, Jessop \"et al.\" (2008) found that even when mortality is prominent, people who engage in certain behaviors to improve their self-esteem have a greater chance of continuing with these activities. Mortality and self-esteem are both factors that influence people's behaviors and decision-making regarding their health. Furthermore, individuals who are involved in behaviors and possess motivation to enhance their self-worth are less likely to be affected by the importance placed on health risks, in terms of mortality.\n\nSelf-esteem is important when mortality is made salient. It can allow people a coping mechanism, one that can cushion individuals' fears; and thus, impacting one's attitudes towards a given behavior. Individuals who have higher levels of self-esteem regarding their behavior(s) are less likely to have their attitudes, and thus their behaviors changed regardless of mortality salient or death messages. People will use their self-esteem to hide behind their fears of dying. In terms of smoking behaviors, people with higher smoking-based self-esteem are less susceptible to anti-smoking messages that relate to death; therefore, mortality salience and death warnings afford them with an even more positive outlook on their behavior, or in this instance their smoking.\n\nIn the Hansen \"et al.\" (2010) experiment the researchers manipulated mortality salience. In the experiment, Hansen \"et al.\" (2010) examined smokers' attitudes towards the behavior of smoking. Actual warning labels were utilized to create mortality salience in this specific experiment. The researchers first gave participants a questionnaire to measure their smoking-based self-esteem. Following the questionnaire, participants were randomly assigned to two different conditions; the first were given anti-smoking warning labels about death and the second, control group were exposed to anti-smoking warning labels not dealing with death. Before the participants' attitudes towards smoking were taken the researchers introduced an unrelated question to provide a delay. Further research has demonstrated that delays allow mortality salience to emerge because thoughts of death become non-conscious. Finally, participants were asked questions regarding their intended future smoking behavior. However, one weakness in their conduction was that the final questionnaire addressed opinions and behavioral questions, as opposed to the participants level of persuasion regarding the different anti-smoking warning labels.\n\nMany people are more motivated by social pressures, rather than health risks. Specifically for younger people, mortality salience is stronger in eliciting changes of one's behavior when it brings awareness to the immediate loss of social status or position, rather than a loss, such as death that one can not imagine and feels far off. However, there are many different factors to take into consideration, such as how strongly an individual feels toward a decision, his or her level of self-esteem, and the situation around the individual. Particularly with people's smoking behaviors, self-esteem and mortality salience have different effects on individuals' decisions. In terms of the longevity of their smoking decisions, it has been seen that individuals' smoking habits are affected, in the short-term sense, when they are exposed to mortality salience that interrelates with their own self-esteem. Moreover, people who viewed social exclusion prompts were more likely to quit smoking in the long run than those who were simply shown health-effects of smoking. More specifically, it was demonstrated that when individuals had high levels of self-esteem they were more likely to quit smoking following the social pressure messages, rather than the health risk messages. In this specific instance, terror management, and specifically mortality salience is showing how people are more motivated by the social pressures and consequences in their environment, rather than consequences relating to their health. This is mostly seen in young adult smokers with higher smoking-based self-esteems who are not thinking of their future health and the less-immediate effects of smoking on their health.\n\nAnother paradigm that TMT researchers use to get at unconscious concerns about death is what is known as the death thought accessibility (DTA) hypothesis. Essentially, the DTA hypothesis states that if individuals are motivated to avoid cognitions about death, and they avoid these cognitions by espousing a worldview or by buffering their self-esteem, then when threatened, an individual should possess more death-related cognitions (e.g., thoughts about death, and death-related stimuli) than they would when not threatened.\n\nThe DTA hypothesis has its origins in work by Greenberg \"et al.\" (1994) as an extension of their earlier terror management hypotheses (i.e., the anxiety buffer hypothesis and the mortality salience hypothesis). The researchers reasoned that if, as indicated by Wegner's research on thought suppression (1994; 1997), thoughts that are purposely suppressed from conscious awareness are often brought back with ease, then following a delay death-thought cognitions should be more available to consciousness than (a) those who keep the death-thoughts in their consciousness the whole time, and (b) those who suppress the death-thoughts but are not provided a delay. That is precisely what they found. However, other psychologists have failed to replicate these findings.\n\nIn these initial studies (i.e., Greenberg \"et al.\" (2004); Arndt \"et al.\" (1997)), and in numerous subsequent DTA studies, the main measure of DTA is a word fragment task, whereby participants can complete word fragments in distinctly death-related ways (e.g., coff_ _ as coffin, not coffee) or in non death-related ways (e.g., sk_ _l as skill, not skull). If death-thoughts are indeed more available to consciousness, then it stands to reason that the word fragments should be completed in a way that is semantically related to death.\n\nThe introduction of this hypothesis has refined TMT, and led to new avenues of research that formerly could not be assessed due to the lack of an empirically validated way of measuring death-related cognitions. Also, the differentiation between proximal (conscious, near, and threat-focused) and distal (unconscious, distant, symbolic) defenses that have been derived from DTA studies have been extremely important in understanding how people deal with their terror.\n\nIt is important to note how the DTA paradigm subtly alters, and expands, TMT as a motivational theory. Instead of solely manipulating mortality and witnessing its effects (e.g., nationalism, increased prejudice, risky sexual behavior, etc.), the DTA paradigm allows a measure of the death-related cognitions that result from various affronts to the self. Examples include threats to self-esteem and to one's worldview; the DTA paradigm can therefore assess the role of death-thoughts in self-esteem and worldview defenses. Furthermore, the DTA hypothesis lends support to TMT in that it corroborates its central hypothesis that death is uniquely problematic for human beings, and that it is fundamentally different in its effects than meaning threats, (i.e., Heine \"et al.\", 2006) and that is death itself, and not uncertainty and lack of control associated with death; Fritsche \"et al.\" (2008) explore this idea.\n\nSince its inception, the DTA hypothesis had been rapidly gaining ground in TMT investigations, and as of 2009, has been employed in over 60 published papers, with a total of more than 90 empirical studies.\n\nHow people respond to their fears and anxiety of death is investigated in TMT. Moreover, Taubman-Ben-Ari and Noy (2010) examine the idea that a person's level of self-awareness and self-consciousness should be considered in relation to their responses to their anxiety and death cognitions. The more an individual is presented with their death or death cognitions in general, the more fear and anxiety one may have; therefore, to combat said anxiety one may implement anxiety buffers.\n\nDue to a change in people's lifestyles, in the direction of more unhealthy behaviors, the leading causes of death now, being cancer and heart disease, most definitely are related to individuals' unhealthy behaviors (though the statement is over-generalising and certainly cannot be applied to every case) Age and death anxiety both are factors that should be considered in the terror management theory, in relation to health-promoting behaviors. Age undoubtedly plays some kind of role in people's health-promoting behaviors; however, an actual age related effect on death anxiety and health-promoting behaviors has yet to be seen. Although, research has demonstrated that for young adults only, when they were prompted with death related scenarios, they yielded more health-promoting behaviors, compared to those participants in their sixties. In addition, death anxiety has been found to have an effect for young adults, on their behaviors of health promotion.\n\nThe terror management health model (TMHM) explores the role that death plays on one's health and behavior. Goldenberg and Arndt (2008) state that the TMHM proposes the idea that death, despite its threatening nature, is in fact instrumental and purposeful in the conditioning of one's behavior towards the direction of a longer life.\n\nAccording to Goldenberg and Arndt (2008), certain health behaviors such as breast self-exams (BSEs) can consciously activate and facilitate people to think of death, especially their own death. While death can be instrumental for individuals, in some cases, when breast self-exams activate people's death thoughts an obstacle can present itself, in terms of health promotion, because of the experience of fear and threat. Abel and Kruger (2009) have suggested that the stress caused by increased awareness of mortality when celebrating one's birthday might explain the birthday effect, where mortality rates seem to spike around these days.\n\nOn the other hand, death and thoughts of death can serve as a way of empowering the self, not as threats. Researchers, Cooper \"et al.\" (2011) explored TMHM in terms of empowerment, specifically using BSEs under two conditions; when death thoughts were prompted, and when thoughts of death were non-conscious. According to TMHM, people's health decisions, when death thoughts are not conscious, should be based on their motivations to act appropriately, in terms of the self and identity. Cooper \"et al.\" (2011) found that when mortality and death thoughts were primed, women reported more empowerment feelings than those who were not prompted before performing a BSE.\n\nAdditionally, TMHM suggests that mortality awareness and self-esteem are important factors in individuals' decision making and behaviors relating to their health. TMHM explores how people will engage in behaviors, whether positive or negative, even with the heightened awareness of mortality, in the attempt to conform to society's expectations and improve their self-esteem. The TMHM is useful in understanding what motivates individuals regarding their health decisions and behaviors.\n\nIn terms of smoking behaviors and attitudes, the impact of warnings with death messages depends on:\n\nPeople with low self-esteem, but not high self-esteem, have more negative emotions when reminded of death. This is believed to be because these individuals lack the very defenses that TMT argues protect people from mortality concerns (e.g., solid worldviews). In contrast, positive mood states are not impacted by death thoughts for people of low or high self-esteem.\n\nIt has been suggested that culture provides meaning, organization, and a coherent world view that diminishes the psychological terror caused by the knowledge of eventual death. The terror management theory can help to explain why a leader's popularity can grow substantially during times of crisis. When a follower's mortality is made prominent they will tend to show a strong preference for iconic leaders. An example of this occurred when George W. Bush's approval rating jumped almost 50 percent following the September 11 attacks in the United States. As Forsyth (2009) posits, this tragedy made U.S. citizens aware of their mortality, and Bush provided an antidote to these existential concerns by promising to bring justice to the terrorist group responsible for the attacks.\n\nResearchers Cohen \"et al.\" (2004), in their particular study on TMT, tested the preferences for different types of leaders, while reminding people of their mortality. Three different candidates were presented to participants. The three leaders were of three different types: task-oriented (emphasized setting goals, strategic planning, and structure), relationship-oriented (emphasized compassion, trust, and confidence in others), and charismatic. The participants were then placed in one of two conditions: mortality salient or control group. In the former condition the participants were asked to describe the emotions surrounding their own death, as well as the physical act of the death itself, whereas the control group were asked similar questions about an upcoming exam. The results of the study were that the charismatic leader was favored more, and the relationship-oriented leader was favored less, in the mortality-salient condition. Further research has shown that mortality salient individuals also prefer leaders who are members of the same group, as well as men rather than women (Hoyt \"et al.\" 2010). This has links to social role theory.\n\nTMT posits that religion was created as a means for humans to cope with their own mortality. Supporting this, arguments in favor of life after death, and simply being religious, reduce the effects of mortality salience on worldview defense. Thoughts of death have also been found to increase religious beliefs. At an implicit, subconscious level, this is the case even for people who claim to be nonreligious.\n\nSeveral psychologists, especially evolutionary psychologists, have argued against terror management theory. One scholar commented that the field of psychology would be advanced by a study of paralyzed states caused by anxiety that would only be alleviated with the reworking of a person's mental state. These authors instead explain human behavior is selected to urge people to avoid situations likely to lead to death. This suggests that mortality salience effects reflect adaptive responses to solve specific life-threats rather than an unconscious attempt to avoid this realization.\n\nSince findings on mortality salience and worldview defense were first published, other researchers have claimed that the effects may have been obtained due to reasons other than death itself, such as anxiety, fear, or other aversive stimuli such as pain. Other studies have found effects similar to those that MS results in – for example, thinking about difficult personal choices to be made, being made to respond to open-ended questions regarding uncertainty, thinking about being robbed, thinking about being socially isolated, and being told that one's life lacks meaning. While these cases exist, thoughts of death have since been compared to various aversive experimental controls, such as (but not limited to) thinking about: failure, writing a critical exam, public speaking with a considerable audience, being excluded, paralysis, dental pain, intense physical pain, etc.\n\nWith regards to the studies that found similar effects, TMT theorists have argued that in the previously mentioned studies where death was not the subject thought about, the subjects would quite easily be related to death in an individual's mind due to \"linguistic or experiential connection with mortality\" (p. 332) For example, being robbed invokes thoughts of violence and being unsafe in one's own home – many people have died trying to protect their property and family. A second possible explanation for these results involves the death-thought accessibility hypothesis: these threats somehow sabotage crucial anxiety-buffering aspects of an individual's worldview or self-esteem, which increases their DTA. For example, one study found increased DTA in response to thoughts of antagonistic relations with attachment figures.\n\nThe meaning maintenance model (MMM) was initially introduced as a comprehensive motivational theory that claimed to subsume TMT, with alternative explanations for TMT findings. Essentially, it posits that people automatically give meaning to things, and when those meanings are somehow disrupted, it causes anxiety. In response, people concentrate on \"meaning maintenance to reestablish their sense of symbolic unity\" and that such \"meaning maintenance often involves the compensatory reaffirmation of alternative meaning structures\". These meanings, among other things, should \"provide a basis for prediction and control of our...environments, help [one] to cope with tragedy and trauma...and the symbolic cheating of death via adherence to the enduring values that these cultures provide\".\n\nTMT theorists argue that MMM cannot describe why different sets of meaning are preferred for a symbol by different people, and that while they may exist, \"different [(i.e., more concrete)] types of meaning have different psychological functions\". For example, MMM theorists argue that all types of meaning are basically equal, and yet one could not compare the likelihood of defensive responses resulting from exposure to a deck of cards containing black hearts with something like the September 11 attacks. TMT theorists argue, essentially, that unless something is an important element of a person's anxiety-buffering worldview or self-esteem, it will not require broad meaning maintenance.\n\nIn sum, TMT theorists believe that MMM cannot accurately claim to be an alternative to TMT because it does not seem to be able to explain the current breadth of TMT evidence. As an example, TMT theorists assert that mortality salience would not be a threat to meaning, since our eventual demise is a necessary condition of life. Therefore, it should not cause an individual to engage in general meaning maintenance. MMM also makes no attempt to explain why threatening meaning increases DTA.\n\nSome theorists have argued that it is not the idea of death and nonexistence that is unsettling to people, but the fact that uncertainty is involved. For example, these researchers posited that people defend themselves by altering their fear responses from uncertainty to an enthusiasm approach. Other researchers argue for distinguishing fear of death from fear of dying and, therein, posit that ultimately the fear of death has more to do with some other fear (e.g., fear of pain) or reflects fear of the unknown.\n\nTMT theorists agree that uncertainty can be disconcerting in some cases and it may even result in defense responses, but note that they believe the inescapability of death and the possibility of its finality regarding one's existence is most unsettling. They ask, \"'Would death be any less frightening if you knew for certain that it would come next Tuesday at 5:15 p.m., and that your hopes for an afterlife were illusory?'...Would you rather be certain that death is the end, or live with the uncertainty that it might not be?\" They also note that people actually seek out some types of uncertainty, and that being uncertain is not always very unpleasant. In contrast, there is substantial evidence that, all things being equal, uncertainty and the unknown represent fundamental fears and are only experienced as pleasant when there is sufficient contextual certainty. For example, a surprise involves uncertainty, but is only perceived as pleasant if there is sufficient certainty that the surprise will be pleasant. Consider a box received on a birthday from a trusted family member as compared to the box received at the end of the film \"Seven\" (which contains a severed head).\n\nThough TMT theorists acknowledge that many responses to mortality salience involve greater approaches (zealousness) towards important worldviews, they also note examples of mortality salience which resulted in the opposite, which offensive defensiveness cannot account for: when negative features of a group to which participants belong were made salient, people actively distanced themselves from that group under mortality salience.\n\nSeveral critiques have been proposed against TMT from evolutionary psychologists – for reasons including that fear is an adaptive response in individuals' that has come about as a result of natural selection; without these adaptations human beings would have never been able to avoid maladaptive situations. Thus, it is unlikely that people would have psychological ways of slowing-down anxiety. In response, TMT theorists argue that this critique is mixing up fear related to immediate danger with anxiety related to thoughts of threats that will or may occur eventually. TMT is talking about the protection that self-esteem and cultural worldviews offer against the threat of unavoidable death in the \"future\". While anxiety may be adaptive in avoiding entering a dangerous place (e.g. because a predator may be waiting), this doesn't mean that anxiety must be adaptive in all cases. For a more comprehensive review of TMT and evolutionary psychology, see Landau \"et al.\", 2007. Similar evolutionary critiques have been raised by researchers exploring uncertainty and unknowns (see for reviews,).\n\nCoalitional psychology (CP) is presented as another alternative to TMT, which proposes that there is an evolutionary tendency to seek safety in groups (coalitions) as a reaction to adaptive threats. People already a part of coalitional groups seek to protect their membership by exhibiting their value to the group. TMT theorists answer by arguing that CP 1) cannot account for the fact that virtually all cultures have a supernatural dimension; 2) it does not explain why cultural worldview defense is symbolic, involving allegiance to both specific and general systems of abstract meaning unrelated to specific threats, rather than focused on the specific adaptive threats it supposedly evolved to deal with; 3) it dismisses TMT's dual process account of the underlying processes that generate MS effects without providing an alternative of any kind or attempting to account for the data relevant to this aspect of the TMT analysis and 4) the experiments testing hypotheses derived from CP do not provide compelling or unique support for CP, 5) it cannot account for a host of empirical findings supporting hypotheses derived from TMT that could never be deduced from CP.\n\n\n\n\nDiscusses TMT at length\n\nTMT and self-esteem\n"}
{"id": "5834654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5834654", "title": "The Storyteller (The Twilight Zone)", "text": "The Storyteller (The Twilight Zone)\n\n\"The Storyteller\" is the first segment of the twenty-seventh episode (the third episode of the second season (1986–87) of the television series \"The Twilight Zone\".\n\nRetired teacher Dorothy Livingston is visiting her niece when she bumps into a man she has never been able to forget. Seeing him leave by taxi, Dorothy and her niece decide to follow him and Dorothy tells her niece how she met that man in 1933.\n\nDuring that time, Dorothy was assigned to a small school in West Virginia and replaced a teacher who informed her that Mica Frost, one of her students, should be allowed access to the library at all times. She meets Mica and discovers that he is a boy who enjoys scribbling in his notebook. She believes Mica's behavior to be unusual and asks him to schedule a parent-teacher conference. Mica declines and informs her that his parents are dead and he lives with his grandfather, who will neither meet her or be met under any circumstance.\n\nThe next morning at school, Mica accidentally falls from a tree, hits his head, and breaks his arm. He is taken to the town doctor to spend the night but he fights back because no one will be home to keep his great-great-great-grandfather alive.\n\nFeeling responsible for Mica’s grandfather, Dorothy goes to their house and reads the old man a story she makes up on the fly. The next day, Mica rushes home to find that his great-great-great-grandfather is still alive and well. He is also surprised to find out that Dorothy was there to read to the old man. She tells Mica that she’s still not convinced that she saved his life but she said she read the story just in case it worked.\n\nIn the present, Mica gets out of the taxi and enters an apartment building followed closely by Dorothy and her niece. Entering an apartment, Dorothy’s voice can be heard reading to her own mother who asks excitedly, “What happens next? Did you find the man? Was he really 200 years old?” Dorothy smiles and answers her: “Tomorrow, mother,” and leaves with the old woman waiting for tomorrow’s story. \n\n"}
{"id": "991656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991656", "title": "Vanishing twin", "text": "Vanishing twin\n\nA vanishing twin, also known as fetal resorption, is a fetus in a multi-gestation pregnancy which dies in utero and is then partially or completely reabsorbed. In some instances, the dead twin will be compressed into a flattened, parchment-like state known as \"fetus papyraceus\".\n\nVanishing twins occur in up to one out of every eight multifetus pregnancies and may not even be known in most cases. \"High resorption rates, which cannot be explained on the basis of the expected abortion rate...suggest intense fetal competition for space, nutrition, or other factors during early gestation, with frequent loss or resorption of the other twin(s).\"\n\nIn pregnancies achieved by IVF, \"it frequently happens that more than one amniotic sac can be seen in early pregnancy, whereas a few weeks later there is only one to be seen and the other has 'vanished'.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38904558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38904558", "title": "Wouter Johannes van Troostwijk", "text": "Wouter Johannes van Troostwijk\n\nWouter Johannes van Troostwijk (28 May 1782, Amsterdam - 20 September 1810, Amsterdam) was a Dutch painter and etcher. Most of his works are landscapes (featuring cattle) or cityscapes.\n\nHe was born into a wealthy family. His father, , was a cloth merchant by trade, but was better known as a chemist and physicist. Many scientists were guests at their home, which inspired his interest in nature. He began sketching and his talent was soon evident, so he was given drawing lessons by Anthonie Andriessen and painting lessons by Anthonie's brother, Juriaan.\n\nIn 1803, he enrolled at the \"\". Two years later he joined the Felix Meritis society, where he won two medals for his work. His style was inspired by Paulus Potter and Jacob van Ruisdael.\n\nHe never became a full-time artist, but still he is thought to have influenced late 19th century Dutch painters. After 1805, he served as concierge at the Amsterdam City Hall, where he lived and had his studio. He devoted himself to painting before and after his working hours and used his days off to paint \"en plein aire\" (as it would later be called). He also took up etching; when he burned his foot and had to spend his time sitting at home.\n\nUltimately, his passion for painting outdoors proved fatal. He worked too long on a cold Autumn night, came down with a high fever, and succumbed a few days later. Only eight of his paintings are on public display, but there are numerous drawings, sketches and studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "6114122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6114122", "title": "Zarafa (giraffe)", "text": "Zarafa (giraffe)\n\nZarafa (1825 – 12 January 1845) was a female Nubian giraffe who lived in the Jardin des Plantes in Paris for 18 years. A gift from Muhammad Ali of Egypt to King Charles X of France, she was one of three giraffes Muhammad Ali sent to European rulers in 1827. These were the first giraffes to be seen in Europe for over three centuries, since the Medici giraffe was sent to Lorenzo de' Medici in Florence in 1486. She didn't receive the name \"Zarafa\" until 1985.\n\nThe giraffe known today as Zarafa was a present to Charles X of France from the Ottoman Viceroy of Egypt, Mehmet Ali Pasha. In 1824, the army of the Sultan of Turkey was engaged in fighting in the Greek War of Independence, and Sultan Mahmud II called upon the Pasha to send troops in support. The Greeks were supported by France. Bernardino Drovetti, the French consul-general in Egypt, persuaded the Pasha that an extraordinary present would encourage the King of France to stop supporting the Greeks.\n\nAs a young animal, she was captured by Arab hunters near Sennar in Sudan and taken to Khartoum on the back of a camel. From there she was transported by boat down the Nile to Alexandria. She was accompanied by three cows that provided her with 25 litres of milk each day.\n\nFrom Alexandria, she embarked on a ship to Marseilles, with an Arab groom, Hassan, and Drovetti's Sudanese servant, Atir. Because of her height, a hole was cut through the deck above the cargo hold through which she could poke her neck. After a voyage of 32 days, she arrived in Marseilles on 31 October 1826. Fearing the dangers of transporting her by boat to Paris around the Iberian peninsula and up the Atlantic coast of France to the Seine, it was decided that she should walk the 900 km to Paris.\nShe over-wintered in Marseilles, where she was joined by the naturalist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire for the walk. He ordered a two-part yellow coat to keep her warm, and shoes for her feet. She set out on 20 May 1827, already 15 cm taller than when she arrived in Marseilles. She was accompanied by her cows and Saint-Hilaire, then aged 55, who walked with her. The trip to Paris took 41 days. She was a spectacle in each town she passed through, Aix-en-Provence, Avignon, Orange, Montelimar and Vienne. She arrived in Lyon on 6 June, where she was greeted by an enthusiastic crowd of 30,000.\nShe was presented to the King at the chateau of Saint-Cloud in Paris on 9 July 1827, and took up residence in the Jardin des Plantes. Now standing nearly 4 m high, Zarafa's arrival in Paris caused a sensation. Over 100,000 people came to see her, approximately an eighth of the population of Paris at the time. Honoré de Balzac wrote a story about her; Gustave Flaubert (then a young child) travelled from Rouen to see her. \"La mode à la girafe\" swept the nation; hair was arranged in towering styles, spotted fabrics were all the rage. The \"Journal des Dames\" reported that the color known as \"belly of giraffe\" became extremely popular. Porcelain and other ceramics were painted with giraffe images. She was painted by Nicolas Huet, Jacques Raymond Brascassat and many others.\n\nZarafa remained in Paris for a further 18 years until her death, attended to the end by Atir. Her corpse was stuffed and displayed in the foyer of the Jardin des Plantes in Paris for many years, before being moved to the Museum of Natural History of La Rochelle, where it remains.\n\nAccording to Saint-Hilaire, she was called \"le bel animal du roi\" (\"The Beautiful Animal of the King\") during her trip from Marseille to Paris and she was dubbed \"la Belle Africaine\" (\"the Beautiful African\") by contemporary press. \"La Gazette\" referred to her as \"her Highness\" (pun intended).\n\nThe name \"Zarafa\" was given to her by American author Michael Allin in his 1998 book \"Zarafa: A Giraffe's True Story, from Deep in Africa to the Heart of Paris.\" Zarafa, meaning \"charming\" or \"lovely one\" in Arabic, is a phonetic variant of the Arabic word for giraffe: \"zerafa\". Olivier Lebleu, author of the new preface to the second edition (2007) of the French journalist Gabriel Dardaud's book \"Une giraffe pour le roi\" (the first modern full-length work about France's first giraffe) has taken up the name \"Zarafa,\" as have several other recent authors, including Lebleu himself in his 2006 book \"Les Avatars de Zarafa\". In addition, the eponymous 2012 French animation film, \"Zarafa\" uses the name; and even the museum in La Rochelle, where her mounted remains still greet visitors, now refers to her by the name Zarafa.\n\nMuhammad Ali Pasha also sent two other giraffes as gifts in 1827, one to George IV of the United Kingdom in London and the other to Francis I of Austria in Vienna. Like the giraffe sent to France, both inspired giraffe crazes in their respective cities. The Austrian giraffe joined the Emperor's menagerie at Schönbrunn Palace but survived for less than one year. Nevertheless, it lived on in the form of \"Giraffeln\" pastries, served until the beginning of the First World War, and \"Giraffentorten\" (giraffe cakes) which still can be found. The English giraffe (or \"cameleopard\", echoing the terminology used by Pliny) joined the embryonic London Zoo in Regent's Park. It was painted as \"The Nubian Giraffe\" in 1827 by Jacques-Laurent Agasse, in an image that includes Edward Cross and, in the background, the giraffe's milk cows from Egypt. The English giraffe survived for less than two years, and was stuffed by John Gould.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5322143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5322143", "title": "Zero Defects", "text": "Zero Defects\n\nZero Defects (or ZD) was a management-led program to eliminate defects in industrial production that enjoyed brief popularity in American industry from 1964 to the early 1970s. Quality expert Philip Crosby later incorporated it into his \"Absolutes of Quality Management\" and it enjoyed a renaissance in the American automobile industry—as a performance goal more than as a program—in the 1990s. Although applicable to any type of enterprise, it has been primarily adopted within supply chains wherever large volumes of components are being purchased (common items such as nuts and bolts are good examples).\n\n\"[...] Zero Defects is a management tool aimed at the reduction of defects through prevention. It is directed at motivating people to prevent mistakes by developing a constant, conscious desire to do their job right the first time.\" — \"Zero Defects: A New Dimension in Quality Assurance\"\n\nZero Defects seeks to directly reverse the attitude that the number of mistakes a worker makes doesn't matter since inspectors will catch them before they reach the customer. This stands in contrast to activities that affect the worker directly, such as receiving a paycheck in the correct amount. Zero Defects involves reconditioning the worker \"to take a personal interest in everything he does[,] by convincing him that his job is just as important as the task of the doctor or the dentist.\"\n\nThe development of Zero Defects is credited to Philip B. Crosby, a quality control department manager on the Pershing missile program at the Martin Company, though at least one contemporary reference credits a small, unnamed group of Martin employees.\n\nZero Defects is not the first application of motivational techniques to production: During World War II, the War Department's \"E for Excellence\" program sought to boost production and minimize waste.\n\nThe Cold War resulted in increased spending on the development of defense technology in the 1950s and 1960s. Because of the safety-critical nature of such technology, particularly weapons systems, the government and defense firms came to employ hundreds of thousands of people in inspection and monitoring of highly-complex products assembled from hundreds of thousands of individual parts. This activity routinely uncovered defects in design, manufacture, and assembly and resulted in an expensive, drawn out cycle of inspection, rework, reinspection, and retest. Additionally, reports of spectacular missile failures appearing in the press heightened the pressure to eliminate defects.\n\nIn 1961, the Martin Company's Orlando Florida facility embarked on an effort to increase quality awareness and specifically launched a program to drive down the number of defects in the Pershing missile to one half of the acceptable quality level in half a year's time. Subsequently, the Army asked that the missile be delivered a month earlier than the contract date in 1962. Martin marshaled all of its resources to meet this challenge and delivered the system with no discrepancies in hardware and documentation and were able to demonstrate operation within a day of the start of setup. After reviewing how Martin was able to overachieve, its management came to the conclusion that while it had not insisted on perfection in the past, it had in this instance, and that was all that was needed to attain outstanding product quality.\n\nManagement commissioned a team to examine the phenomenon and come up with an action plan, which became the organizing, motivating, and initiating elements of Zero Defects. The Department of Defense also took notice and in 1964, began to actively encourage its vendors to adopt Zero Defects programs. Interest in the program from outside firms, including Litton Industries, Thiokol, Westinghouse, and Bendix Corporation, was keen and many made visits to Martin to learn about it. Their feedback was incorporated and rounded out the program. In particular, General Electric suggested that error cause removal be included in the program.\n\nMartin claimed a 54% defect reduction in defects in hardware under government audit during the first two years of the program. General Electric reported a $2 million reduction in rework and scrap costs, RCA reported 75% of its departments in one division were achieving Zero Defects, and Sperry Corporation reported a 54% defect reduction over a single year.\n\nDuring its heyday, it was adopted by General Electric, ITT Corporation, Montgomery Ward, Rolls-Royce Limited, and the United States Army among other organizations.\n\nWhile Zero Defects began in the aerospace and defense industry, thirty years later it was regenerated in the automotive world. During the 1990s, large companies in the automotive industry tried to cut costs by reducing their quality inspection processes and demanding that their suppliers dramatically improve the quality of their supplies. This eventually resulted in demands for the \"Zero Defects\" standard. It is implemented all over the world.\n\nIn 1979, Crosby penned \"Quality Is Free: The Art of Making Quality Certain\" which preserved the idea of Zero Defects in a Quality Management Maturity Grid, in a 14-step quality improvement program, and in the concept of the \"Absolutes of Quality Management\". The quality improvement program incorporated ideas developed or popularized by others (for example, cost of quality (step 4), employee education (step 8), and quality councils (step 13)) with the core motivation techniques of booklets, films, posters, speeches, and the \"ZD Day\" centerpiece.\n\nAccording to Crosby, there are four Absolutes:\n\nNewcomers to manufacturing bring their own vague impressions of what quality involves. But in order to tackle quality-related problems, there must be widespread agreement on the specifics of what quality means for a particular product. Customer needs and expectations must be reduced to measurable quantities like length, or smoothness, or roundness and a standard must be specified for each. These become the requirements for a product and the organization must inspect, or measure what comes out of the production process against those standards to determine whether the product conforms to those requirements or not. An important implication of this is that if management does not specify these requirements workers invent their own which may not align with what management would have intended had they provided explicit requirements to begin with.\n\nCompanies typically focus on inspection to ensure that defective product doesn't reach the customer. But this is both costly and still lets nonconformances through. Prevention, in the form of \"pledging ourselves to make a constant conscious effort to do our jobs right the first time\", is the only way to guarantee zero defects. Beyond that, examining the production process for steps where defects can occur and mistake proofing them contributes to defect-free production.\n\nWorkers, at least during the post–World War II economic expansion, had a lackadaisical attitude on the whole toward work. Crosby saw statistical quality control and the MIL-Q-9858 standard as contributing to this through acceptable quality levels—a concept that allows a certain number of acceptable defects and reinforces the attitude that mistakes are inevitable. Another contributor is the self-imposed pressure to produce something to sell, even if that thing is defective. Workers must \"make the attitude of Zero Defects [their] personal standard.\"\n\nTo convince executives to take action to resolve issues of poor quality, costs associated with poor quality must be measured in monetary terms. Crosby uses the term \"the price of nonconformance\" in preference to \"the cost of quality\" to overcome the misimpression that higher quality requires higher costs. The point of writing \"Quality Is Free\" was to demonstrate that quality improvement efforts pay for themselves. Crosby divides quality-related costs into the price of conformance and the price of nonconformance. The price of conformance includes quality-related planning, inspection, and auditing; the price of nonconformance includes scrap, rework, claims against warranty, unplanned service\n\nThe main criticism is the amount of effort required to verify every person's performance in an organization. Confidence in the program, and therefore compliance to it, fades without this verification.\n\nPoint 10 of Deming's 14 points (\"\"Eliminate slogans, exhortations, and targets for the work force asking for \"zero defects\" and new levels of productivity.\"\") is clearly aimed at ZD. Joseph M. Juran was also critical of ZD.\n\nAnother criticism is that Zero Defects is a motivational program aimed at encouraging employees to do better. Crosby stated that \"Motivation has nothing to do with it...It is merely setting performance standards that no one can misunderstand and then starting a two-way communications exercise to let everyone know about it.\" He blamed management actions and attitudes for creating the opportunity for defects.\n\n\n\n"}
