{"id": "1445953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1445953", "title": "Adena culture", "text": "Adena culture\n\nThe Adena culture was a Pre-Columbian Native American culture that existed from 1000 to 200 BC, in a time known as the Early Woodland period. The Adena culture refers to what were probably a number of related Native American societies sharing a burial complex and ceremonial system. The Adena lived in an area including parts of present-day Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin, West Virginia, Kentucky, New York, Pennsylvania, and Maryland.\n\nThe Adena Culture was named for the large mound on Thomas Worthington's early 19th-century estate located near Chillicothe, Ohio, which he named \"Adena\",\n\nAdena sites are concentrated in a relatively small area - maybe 200 sites in the central Ohio Valley, with perhaps another 200 scattered throughout Wisconsin, Indiana, Kentucky, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Maryland, although those in Ohio may once have numbered in the thousands. The importance of the Adena complex comes from its considerable influence on other contemporary and succeeding cultures. The Adena culture is seen as the precursor to the traditions of the Hopewell culture, which are sometimes thought as an elaboration, or zenith, of Adena traditions.\n\nThe Adena were notable for their agricultural practices, pottery, artistic works, and extensive trading network, which supplied them with a variety of raw materials, ranging from copper from the Great Lakes to shells from the Gulf Coast.\n\nLasting traces of Adena culture are still seen in the remains of their substantial earthworks. At one point, larger Adena mounds numbered in the hundreds, but only a small number of the remains of the larger Adena earthen monuments still survive today. These mounds generally ranged in size from to in diameter and served as burial structures, ceremonial sites, historical markers, and possibly gathering places. These earthen monuments were built using hundreds of thousands of baskets full of specially selected and graded earth. According to archaeological investigations, Adena earthworks were often built as part of their burial rituals, in which the earth of the earthwork was piled immediately atop a burned mortuary building. These mortuary buildings were intended to keep and maintain the dead until their final burial was performed. Before the construction of the earthworks, some utilitarian and grave goods would be placed on the floor of the structure, which was burned with the goods and honored dead within. The earthwork would then be constructed, and often a new mortuary structure would be placed atop the new earthwork. After a series of repetitions, mortuary/earthwork/mortuary/earthwork, a quite prominent earthwork would remain. In the later Adena period, circular ridges of unknown function were sometimes constructed around the burial earthworks.\n\nAlthough the mounds are beautiful artistic achievements themselves, Adena artists created smaller, more personal pieces of art. Art motifs that became important to many later Native Americans began with the Adena. Motifs such as the weeping eye and cross and circle design became mainstays in many succeeding cultures. Many pieces of art seemed to revolve around shamanic practices, and the transformation of humans into animals—particularly birds, wolves, bears and deer—and back to human form. This may indicate a belief that the practice imparted the animals' qualities to the wearer or holder of the objects. Deer antlers, both real and constructed of copper, wolf, deer and mountain lion jawbones, and many other objects were fashioned into costumes, necklaces and other forms of regalia by the Adena. Distinctive tubular smoking pipes, with either flattened or blocked-end mouthpieces, suggest the offering of smoke to the spirits. The objective of pipe smoking may have been altered states of consciousness, achieved through the use of the hallucinogenic plant Nicotiana rustica. All told, Adena was a manifestation of a broad regional increase in the number and kind of artifacts devoted to spiritual needs.\n\nThe Adena also carved small stone tablets, usually 4 or 5 inches by 3 or 4 inches by .5 inches thick. On one or both flat sides were gracefully composed stylized zoomorphs or curvilinear geometric designs in deep relief. Paint has been found on some Adena tablets, leading archaeologists to propose that these stone tablets were probably used to stamp designs on cloth or animal hides, or onto their own bodies. It is possible that they were used to outline designs for tattooing.\n\nUnlike in other cultures, Adena pottery was not buried with the dead or the remains of the cremated, as were other artifacts. Usually Adena pottery was tempered with grit or crushed limestone and was very thick; its decoration was largely plain, cord-marked or fabric marked, although one type bore a nested-diamond design incised into its surface. The vessel shapes were sub-conoidal or flat-bottomed jars, sometimes with small foot-like supports.\n\nThe large and elaborate mound sites served a nearby scattering of people. The population was dispersed in small settlements of one to two structures. A typical house was built in a circle form from 15 to 45 feet in diameter. The walls were made of paired posts tilted outward, that were then joined to other pieces of wood to form a cone shaped roof. The roof was then covered with bark and the walls may have been bark and/or wickerwork.\n\nTheir sustenance was acquired through foraging and the cultivation of native plants.\n\nThe Adena ground stone tools and axes. Somewhat rougher slab-like stones with chipped edges were probably used as hoes. Bone and antler were used in small tools, but even more prominently in ornamental objects such as beads, combs, and worked animal-jaw gorgets or paraphernalia. Spoons, beads and other implements were made from the marine conch. A few copper axes have been found, but otherwise the metal was hammered into ornamental forms, such as bracelets, rings, beads, and reel-shaped pendants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4074399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4074399", "title": "Aerial silk", "text": "Aerial silk\n\nAerial silks (also known as aerial contortion, aerial ribbons, aerial tissues, fabric, ribbon, or tissu, depending on personal preference) is a type of performance in which one or more artists perform aerial acrobatics while hanging from a fabric. The fabric may be hung as two pieces, or a single piece, folded to make a loop, classified as hammock silks. Performers climb the suspended fabric without the use of safety lines and rely only on their training and skill to ensure safety. They use the fabric to wrap, suspend, drop, swing, and spiral their bodies into and out of various positions. Aerial silks may be used to fly through the air, striking poses and figures while flying. Some performers use dried or spray rosin on their hands and feet to increase the friction and grip on the fabric.\n\nThe three main categories of tricks are climbs, wraps, and drops. Climbs employed by aerialists range from purely practical and efficient, such as the Russian climb, to athletic and elegant tricks of their own, such as the straddle climb. Wraps are static poses where aerialists wrap the silks around one or more parts of their body. In general, the more complicated the wrap, the stronger the force of friction and the less effort required to hold oneself up. Some wraps, such as the straddle-back-balance, actually allow performers to completely release their hands. Foot locks are a sub-category of wraps where the silks are wrapped around one or both feet, for instance, an ankle hang. In a drop, performers wrap themselves up high on the silks before falling to a lower position. Drops can combine aspects of free fall, rolling or otherwise rotating oneself before landing in a new pose. Preparation for a drop can make for a pretty wrap, but the ultimate goal is the fall rather than the pose. Of the three trick types, drops require the most strength and are also the most potentially dangerous. Rosin (dry or mixed with rubbing alcohol) is employed to help performers maintain their grip. Aerial silks are a demanding art and require a high degree of strength, power, flexibility, courage, stamina, and grace to practice.\n\nThe fabrics used as silks are very strong with some give and flexibility. The fabric is 2-way stretch polyester lycra or Tricot Nylon. The width varies depending on the routine and the acrobat. The fabric is usually quite long, as it is doubled for rigging, giving the acrobat two strips of fabric to work with as they perform.\n\n\nAerial silks were invented in 1995 by André Simard, the journey began when he was hired by Cirque du Soleil to develop and research acrobatics in 1987, his job was to discover original and imaginative ways to attract the audience to the shows. (“The beautiful yet dangerous art of aerial silk”, 2010). Now silks have been incorporated into circus arts as well as a form of aerial fitness.\n\nAerial rigging applies to the hanging of aerial silks and hammocks. Aerial silk rigging equipment commonly includes:\n\nCarabiners are the most used rigging piece for all aerial arts, but only two or three styles are safe for aerial use, these are the auto lock gate and screw gate carabiner. rated two different ways, one for the spine and one for the gate, though distributing weight on the gate is not recommended for it is about 1/3 of the spine kN rating. When using a carabiner for aerial arts, it is important to hook, then rotate and screw downwards, so there is little or no risk that the carabiner will accidentally open or that the screw gate will become unscrewed, also the top part of a carabiner is stronger.\n\n\nA kilonewton (kN) is a measurement of weight in motion. Knowing the weight that your rigging and hang point can withstand is important for your safety and the maintenance of your equipment. \nExample: A 100-pound aerialist dropping 5 feet on silks, with half a foot of stopping distance and the stretch of the silks, calculates to 1,100 pounds of force exerted on rigging, silks, and person. (Types of Carabiners and What kN Ratings Mean.)\nEquation: W x (1 + D falling/ D stopping) \nExample with the equation:\n(weight 120 x (1 + distance falling (3 ft.) / distance stopping (1/2 ft.)) \nThe weight exerted from this drop would be 840 pounds or 3kN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23872562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23872562", "title": "Africa &amp; Asia", "text": "Africa &amp; Asia\n\nThe series Africa & Asia: Göteborg Working Papers on Asian and African Languages and Literatures aims to cover any aspect relevant to the study of Asian and African languages and literatures. The journal appears annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256463", "title": "Asian studies", "text": "Asian studies\n\nAsian studies, a term used usually in North America for Oriental studies and is concerned with the Asian people, their cultures, languages, history and politics. Within the Asian sphere, Asian studies combines aspects of sociology, history, cultural anthropology and many other disciplines to study political, cultural and economic phenomena in Asian traditional and contemporary societies. Asian studies forms a field of post-graduate study in many universities.\n\nIt is a branch of area studies, and many Western universities combine Asian and African studies in a single faculty or institute, like SOAS in London. It is often combined with Islamic studies in a similar way. The history of the discipline in the West is covered under Oriental studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49048827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49048827", "title": "Bambino Gesu of Arenzano", "text": "Bambino Gesu of Arenzano\n\nThe Bambino Gesu of Arenzano locally known as Il Grande Piccinino (Lit: Child Jesus of Arenzano, the Great Little Child) is a Roman Catholic devotional image depicting the Child Jesus venerated by the Genoese faithful.\n\nThe image takes its iconography from the Infant Jesus of Prague which was brought by the Carmelite Order who wanted to propagate its devotion in the area. The feast of the image is celebrated each September 1. Various miraculous claims are associated with the image by its pilgrims, now preserved within the basilica.\n\nThe image was donated by the Marquise Delphina Gavotti of Savona and was presented to the built shrine on 2 June 1902. It replaced a picture image of the Infant Jesus of Prague brought by the Carmelite Order on 25 September 1900, which was located beneath the statue of Our Lady of Mount Carmel.\n\nPope Pius XI granted a Canonical coronation to the venerated image on 24 February 1924 via his Papal legate Cardinal Rafael Merry del Val. The solemn ceremony was attended by many notable prelates, namely the young seminarian at the time, Cardinal Giuseppe Siri and Queen Margherita of Savoy.\n\nThe same Pontiff raised the sanctuary to the status of a Minor Basilica on 6 May 1928 through an Apostolic decree signed by the Vatican Secretary of State Cardinal Pietro Gasparri, where the image is permanently enshrined today.\n\n"}
{"id": "58094046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58094046", "title": "British Entertainment History Project", "text": "British Entertainment History Project\n\nThe British Entertainment History Project (BEHP) The History Project records and preserves interviews with the men and women who have worked in British film, television, radio and theatre industries over the last 100 years \"to ensure that their lives and experiences are preserved for future generations\".\n\nFounded in 1987 by Roy Fowler, the History Project started as an independent volunteer project by members of the industry trade union, ACTT, who wanted to preserve the stories and memories of the lives of the men and women who had been working in the various film and television industries. The organisation was originally called the \"ACTT History Project\", reflecting the fact that though it was an entirely separate project run by volunteers, it was nevertheless supported by the ACTT union. In 1991, the ACTT merged with the Broadcasting and Entertainment Trades Alliance, to form BECTU (Broadcasting, Entertainment, Cinematograph and Theatre Union) and the ACTT History Project became known as the BECTU History Project. In 2016, it was officially registered as a company limited by guarantee, as an independent, non-profit, voluntary organisation, and renamed the British Entertainment History Project.\n\nThe work of the project continues to be acknowledged and supported by BECTU, industry-related unions and many other media organisations and educational institutions.\n\nOver the last thirty years, the BECTU History Project has built one of the world's largest archives of industry-related memory. The unique and internationally recognised archive collection has grown to over 700 oral history interviews and over 4,000 hours of audio and video recordings making it the largest independent oral history collection of its kind in the UK.\n\nThe recordings are used as a primary source by researchers and students, especially in the fields of media and social history. In addition, the archive is used by television and radio programmes, film documentaries, publishers, authors, historians, obituarists and journalists as well as the general public. Other partnerships and collaborations include work with the BFI, the BBC, the British Universities Film & Video Council and with universities such as the University of East Anglia. In 2017, the BEHP began working with Sussex University and other partners as part of the \"'100 voices That Made The BBC\"', which is part of the \"Connected Histories of the BBC\", funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC).\n\nCopies of all interview recordings also form part of the National Film archive of the British Film Institute and a significant number were made available as part of BFI Screen Online.\n\nThe interviewees are mainly drawn from professionals in the relevant industries working in the United Kingdom, but also include British professionals who worked abroad. Although the archive includes many well-known or major interviewees, the overall emphasis is on reflecting genuine breadth and variety, including those who may not be well known, but who, nevertheless have contributed to, or witnessed, interesting or important productions or simply have a unique story to tell. Capturing their reminiscences provides information about, and underpins, the cultural history of Britain's broadcasting and entertainment, whilst also shining a light on employment practices and the wider social history of particular periods. The aim is that future historians of the moving image and entertainment industries will have access to extensive personal testimonies from actual participants in these activities.\n\nInterviewees include actors such as Jill Balcon, and Robert Beatty, union officials, director/producers (Lord Richard Attenborough, Bimbi Harris, John Krish), presenters such as Pete Murray and performers such as Kenny Lynch. One of the earliest recordings is of an interview with Adolph Simon, a silent newsreel cameraman who worked in 1914. In addition there are interviews with veterans such as Earl Cameron CBE and Jack Hollingshead who joined the BBC in 1930. Most of the crafts and grades are represented, including major cinematographers such as Freddie Young, Art Directors such as Carmen Dillon, Continuity Girls, and Sound Recordists.\n\nIn 1999, the History Project was awarded a £3,500 grant from the Kraszna Krausz Foundation to help towards the enormous task of transcribing hundreds of audio tapes.\n\nIn 2010, the History Project was honoured with a Lifetime Contribution to Broadcasting Award at a ceremony at BAFTA.\n\n"}
{"id": "37328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37328", "title": "Circus Maximus", "text": "Circus Maximus\n\nThe Circus Maximus (Latin for \"greatest\" or \"largest circus\"; Italian: Circo Massimo) is an ancient Roman chariot-racing stadium and mass entertainment venue located in Rome, Italy. Situated in the valley between the Aventine and Palatine Hills, it was the first and largest stadium in ancient Rome and its later Empire. It measured in length and in width and could accommodate over 150,000 spectators. In its fully developed form, it became the model for circuses throughout the Roman Empire. The site is now a public park.\n\nThe Circus was Rome's largest venue for \"ludi,\" public games connected to Roman religious festivals. \"Ludi\" were sponsored by leading Romans or the Roman state for the benefit of the Roman people (\"populus Romanus\") and gods. Most were held annually or at annual intervals on the Roman calendar. Others might be given to fulfill a religious vow, such as the games in celebration of a triumph. In Roman tradition, the earliest triumphal \"ludi\" at the Circus were vowed by Tarquin the Proud to Jupiter in the late Regal era for his victory over Pometia.\n\n\"Ludi\" ranged in duration and scope from one-day or even half-day events to spectacular multi-venue celebrations held over several days, with religious ceremonies and public feasts, horse and chariot racing, athletics, plays and recitals, beast-hunts and gladiator fights. Some included public executions. The greater \"ludi\" at the Circus began with a flamboyant parade \"(pompa circensis)\", much like the triumphal procession, which marked the purpose of the games and introduced the participants.\n\nDuring Rome's Republican era, the aediles organised the games. The most costly and complex of the \"ludi\" offered opportunities to assess an aedile's competence, generosity, and fitness for higher office. Some Circus events, however, seem to have been relatively small and intimate affairs. In 167 BC, \"flute players, scenic artists and dancers\" performed on a temporary stage, probably erected between the two central seating banks. Others were enlarged at enormous expense to fit the entire space. A \"venatio\" held there in 169 BC, one of several in the 2nd century, employed \"63 leopards and 40 bears and elephants\", with spectators presumably kept safe by a substantial barrier.\n\nAs Rome's provinces expanded, existing \"ludi\" were embellished and new \"ludi\" invented by politicians who competed for divine and popular support. By the late Republic, \"ludi\" were held on 57 days of the year; an unknown number of these would have required full use of the Circus. On many other days, charioteers and jockeys would need to practice on its track. Otherwise, it would have made a convenient corral for the animals traded in the nearby cattle market, just outside the starting gate. Beneath the outer stands, next to the Circus' multiple entrances, were workshops and shops. When no games were being held, the Circus at the time of Catullus (mid-1st century BC) was likely \"a dusty open space with shops and booths ... a colourful crowded disreputable area\" frequented by \"prostitutes, jugglers, fortune tellers and low-class performing artists.\"\nRome's emperors met the ever-burgeoning popular demand for regular \"ludi\" and the need for more specialised venues, as essential obligations of their office and cult. Over the several centuries of its development, the Circus Maximus became Rome's paramount specialist venue for chariot races. By the late 1st century AD, the Colosseum had been built to host most of the city's gladiator shows and smaller beast-hunts, and most track-athletes competed at the purpose-designed Stadium of Domitian, though long-distance foot races were still held at the Circus. Eventually, 135 days of the year were devoted to \"ludi\".\n\nEven at the height of its development as a chariot-racing circuit, the circus remained the most suitable space in Rome for religious processions on a grand scale, and was the most popular venue for large-scale \"venationes\"; in the late 3rd century, the emperor Probus laid on a spectacular Circus show in which beasts were hunted through a veritable forest of trees, on a specially built stage. With the advent of Christianity as the official religion of the Empire, \"ludi\" gradually fell out of favour. The last known beast-hunt at the Circus Maximus took place in 523, and the last known races there were held by Totila in 549.\n\nThe Circus Maximus was sited on the level ground of the Valley of Murcia \"(Vallis Murcia)\", between Rome's Aventine and Palatine Hills. In Rome's early days, the valley would have been rich agricultural land, prone to flooding from the river Tiber and the stream which divided the valley. The stream was probably bridged at an early date, at the two points where the track had to cross it, and the earliest races would have been held within an agricultural landscape, \"with nothing more than turning posts, banks where spectators could sit, and some shrines and sacred spots\".\n\nIn Livy's history of Rome, the first Etruscan king of Rome Lucius Tarquinius Priscus built raised, wooden perimeter seating at the Circus for Rome's highest echelons (the equites and patricians), probably midway along the Palatine straight, with an awning against the sun and rain. His grandson, Tarquinius Superbus, added the first seating for citizen-commoners (plebs, or plebeians), either adjacent or on the opposite, Aventine side of the track. Otherwise, the Circus was probably still little more than a trackway through surrounding farmland. By this time, it may have been drained but the wooden stands and seats would have frequently rotted and been rebuilt. The turning posts (\"metae\"), each made of three conical stone pillars, may have been the earliest permanent Circus structures; an open drainage canal between the posts would have served as a dividing barrier.\n\nThe games' sponsor (Latin \"editor)\" usually sat beside the images of attending gods, on a conspicuous, elevated stand (\"pulvinar\") but seats at the track's perimeter offered the best, most dramatic close-ups. In 494 BC (very early in the Republican era) the dictator Manius Valerius Maximus and his descendants were granted rights to a curule chair at the southeastern turn, an excellent viewpoint for the thrills and spills of chariot racing. In the 190s BC, stone track-side seating was built, exclusively for senators.\n\nPermanent wooden starting stalls were built in 329 BC. They were gated, brightly painted, and staggered to equalise the distances from each start place to the central barrier. In theory, they might have accommodated up to 25 four-horse chariots ( Quadrigas ) abreast but when team-racing was introduced, they were widened, and their number reduced. By the late Republican or early Imperial era, there were twelve stalls. Their divisions were fronted by herms that served as stops for spring-loaded gates, so that twelve light-weight, four-horse or two-horse chariots could be simultaneously released onto the track. The stalls were allocated by lottery, and the various racing teams were identified by their colors. Typically, there were seven laps per race. From at least 174 BC, they were counted off using large sculpted eggs. In 33 BC, an additional system of large bronze dolphin-shaped lap counters was added, positioned well above the central dividing barrier \"(euripus)\" for maximum visibility.\nJulius Caesar's development of the Circus, commencing around 50 BC, extended the seating tiers to run almost the entire circuit of the track, barring the starting gates and a processional entrance at the semi-circular end. The track measured approximately 621 m (2,037 ft) in length and 150 m (387 ft) in breadth. A canal was cut between the track perimeter and its seating to protect spectators and help drain the track. The inner third of the seating formed a trackside \"cavea\". Its front sections along the central straight were reserved for senators, and those immediately behind for \"equites\". The outer tiers, two thirds of the total, were meant for Roman plebs and non-citizens. They were timber-built, with wooden-framed service buildings, shops and entrance-ways beneath. The total number of seats is uncertain, but was probably in the order of 150,000; Pliny the Elder's estimate of 250,000 is unlikely. The wooden bleachers were damaged in a fire of 31 BC, either during or after construction.\n\nThe fire damage of 31 was probably repaired by Augustus (Caesar's successor and Rome's first emperor). He modestly claimed credit only for an obelisk and \"pulvinar\" at the site but both were major projects. Ever since its quarrying, long before Rome existed, the obelisk had been sacred to Egyptian Sun-gods. Augustus had it brought from Heliopolis at enormous expense, and erected midway along the dividing barrier of the Circus. It was Rome's first obelisk, an exotically sacred object and a permanent reminder of Augustus' victory over his Roman foes and their Egyptian allies in the recent civil wars. Thanks to him, Rome had secured both a lasting peace and a new Egyptian Province. The \"pulvinar\" was built on monumental scale, a shrine or temple (\"aedes\") raised high above the trackside seats. Sometimes, while games were in progress, Augustus watched from there, alongside the gods. Occasionally, his family would join him there. This is the Circus described by Dionysius of Halicarnassus as \"one of the most beautiful and admirable structures in Rome\", with \"entrances and ascents for the spectators at every shop, so that the countless thousands of people may enter and depart without inconvenience.\" \n\nThe site remained prone to flooding, probably through the starting gates, until Claudius made improvements there; they probably included an extramural anti-flooding embankment. Fires in the crowded, wooden perimeter workshops and bleachers were a far greater danger. A fire of 36 AD seems to have started in a basket-maker's workshop under the stands, on the Aventine side; the emperor Tiberius compensated various small businesses there for their losses. In AD 64, during Nero's reign, fire broke out at the semi-circular end of the Circus, swept through the stands and shops, and destroyed much of the city. Games and festivals continued at the Circus, which was rebuilt over several years to the same footprint and design.\n\nBy the late 1st century AD, the central dividing barrier comprised a series of water basins, or else a single watercourse open in some places and bridged over in others. It offered opportunities for artistic embellishment and decorative swagger, and included the temples and statues of various deities, fountains, and refuges for those assistants involved in more dangerous circus activities, such as beast-hunts and the recovery of casualties during races.\n\nIn AD 81 the Senate built a triple arch honoring Titus at the semi-circular end of the Circus, to replace or augment a former processional entrance. The emperor Domitian built a new, multi-storey palace on the Palatine, connected somehow to the Circus; he likely watched the games in autocratic style, from high above and barely visible to those below. Repairs to fire damage during his reign may already have been under way before his assassination.\n\nThe risk of further fire-damage, coupled with Domitian's fate, may have prompted Trajan's decision to rebuild the Circus entirely in stone, and provide a new pulvinar in the stands where Rome's emperor could be seen and honoured as part of the Roman community, alongside her gods. Under Trajan, the Circus Maximus found its definitive form, which was unchanged thereafter save for some monumental additions by later emperors, an extensive, planned rebuilding of the starting gate area under Caracalla, and repairs and renewals to existing fabric. Some repairs were unforeseen and extensive, such as those carried out in Diocletian's reign, after the collapse of a seating section killed some 13,000 people.\n\nThe southeastern turn of the track ran between two shrines which may have predated the Circus' formal development. One, located at the outer southeast perimeter, was dedicated to the valley's eponymous goddess Murcia, an obscure deity associated with Venus, the myrtle shrub, a sacred spring, the stream that divided the valley, and the lesser peak of the Aventine Hill. The other was at the southeastern turning-post; where there was an underground shrine to Consus, a minor god of grain-stores, connected to the grain-goddess Ceres and to the underworld. According to Roman tradition, Romulus discovered this shrine shortly after the founding of Rome. He invented the Consualia festival, as a way of gathering his Sabine neighbours at a celebration that included horse-races and drinking. During these distractions, Romulus's men then abducted the Sabine daughters as brides. Thus the famous Roman myth of the Rape of the Sabine women had as its setting the Circus and the Consualia.\n\nIn this quasi-legendary era, horse or chariot races would have been held at the Circus site. The track width may have been determined by the distance between Murcia's and Consus' shrines at the southeastern end, and its length by the distance between these two shrines and Hercules' Ara Maxima, supposedly older than Rome itself and sited behind the Circus' starting place.. The position of Consus' shrine at the turn of the track recalls the placing of shrines to Roman Neptune's Greek equivalent, Poseidon, in Greek hippodromes. In later developments, the altar of Consus, as one of the Circus's patron deities, was incorporated into the fabric of the south-eastern turning post. When Murcia's stream was partly built over, to form a dividing barrier (the \"spina\" or \"euripus\") between the turning posts, her shrine was either retained or rebuilt. In the Late Imperial period, both the southeastern turn and the circus itself were sometimes known as \"Vallis Murcia\". The symbols used to count race-laps also held religious significance; Castor and Pollux, who were born from an egg, were patrons of horses, horsemen, and the equestrian order \"(equites)\". Likewise, the later use of dolphin-shaped lap counters reinforced associations between the races, swiftness, and Neptune, as god of earthquakes and horses; the Romans believed dolphins to be the swiftest of all creatures. When the Romans adopted the Phrygian Geat Mother as an ancestral deity, a statue of her on lion-back was erected within the circus, probably on the dividing barrier.\nSun and Moon cults were probably represented at the Circus from its earliest phases. Their importance grew with the introduction of Roman cult to Apollo, and the development of Stoic and solar monism as a theological basis for the Roman Imperial cult. In the Imperial era, the Sun-god was divine patron of the Circus and its games. His sacred obelisk towered over the arena, set in the central barrier, close to his temple and the finishing line. The Sun-god was the ultimate, victorious charioteer, driving his four-horse chariot (\"quadriga\") through the heavenly circuit from sunrise to sunset. His partner Luna drove her two-horse chariot (\"biga\"); together, they represented the predictable, orderly movement of the cosmos and the circuit of time, which found analogy in the Circus track. In Imperial cosmology, the emperor was Sol-Apollo's earthly equivalent, and Luna may have been linked to the empress. Luna's temple, built long before Apollo's, burned down in the Great Fire of 64 AD and was probably not replaced. Her cult was closely identified with that of Diana, who seems to have been represented in the processions that started Circus games, and with Sol Indiges, usually identified as her brother. After the loss of her temple, her cult may have been transferred to Sol's temple on the dividing barrier, or one beside it; both would have been open to the sky.\n\nTemples to several deities overlooked the Circus; most are now lost. The temples to Ceres and Flora stood close together on the Aventine, more or less opposite the Circus' starting gate, which remained under Hercules' protection. Further southeast along the Aventine was a temple to Luna, the moon goddess. Aventine temples to Venus Obsequens, Mercury and Dis (or perhaps Summanus) stood on the slopes above the southeast turn. On the Palatine hill, opposite to Ceres's temple, stood the temple to Magna Mater and, more or less opposite Luna's temple, one to the sun-god Apollo.\n\nSeveral festivals, some of uncertain foundation and date, were held at the Circus in historical times. The Consualia, with its semi-mythical establishment by Romulus, and the Cerealia, the major festival of Ceres, were probably older than the earliest historically attested \"Roman Games\" \"(Ludi Romani)\" held at the Circus in honour of Jupiter in 366 BC. In the early Imperial era, Ovid describes the opening of Cerealia (mid to late April) with a horse race at the Circus, followed by the nighttime release of foxes into the stadium, their tails ablaze with lighted torches. Some early connection is likely between Ceres as goddess of grain crops and Consus as a god of grain storage and patron of the Circus.\n\nAfter the 6th century, the Circus fell into disuse and decay, and was quarried for building materials. The lower levels, ever prone to flooding, were gradually buried under waterlogged alluvial soil and accumulated debris, so that the original track is now buried 6m beneath the modern surface. In the 11th century, the Circus was \"replaced by dwellings rented out by the congregation of Saint-Guy.\" In the 12th century, a watercourse was dug there to drain the soil, and by the 1500s the area was used as a market garden. Many of the Circus' standing structures survived these changes; in 1587, two obelisks were removed from the central barrier by Pope Sixtus V, and one of these was re-sited at the Piazza del Popolo. Mid 19th century workings at the circus site uncovered the lower parts of a seating tier and outer portico. Since then, a series of excavations has exposed further sections of the seating, curved turn and central barrier but further exploration has been limited by the scale, depth and waterlogging of the site.\nThe Circus site now functions as a large park area, in the centre of the city.\nIt is often used for concerts and meetings. The Rome concert of Live 8 (July 2, 2005) was held there. The English band Genesis performed a concert before an estimated audience of 500,000 people in 2007 (this was filmed and released as When in Rome 2007). The Rolling Stones played there in front of 71,527 people on June 22, 2014 for the Italian date of their 14 On Fire tour. The Circus has also hosted victory celebrations, following the Italian World Cup 2006 victory and the A.S. Roma Serie A victory in 2001.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50610494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50610494", "title": "Community archives", "text": "Community archives\n\nCommunity archives are archives created or accumulated, described, and/or preserved by individuals and community groups who desire to document their cultural heritage based on shared experiences, interests, and/or identities, sometimes without the traditional intervention of formally trained archivists, historians, and librarians. Instead, the engaged community members determine the scope and contents of the community archive, often with a focus on a significant shared event, such as the Ferguson unrest (2014). Community archives are created in response to needs defined by the members of a community, who may also exert control over how materials are used.\n\nAlthough local and regional societies, churches, and museums have collected community records for generations, community archives increased in number and popularity throughout the 1970s and 1980s, which Anne Gillian and Andrew Flinn believe may be due in part to increased interest in oral history and community representation in response to the emerging anti-war, anti-establishment, civil rights, and student activism movements of the 1960s. \n\nThe work of community archives received little recognition from archival scholars until the early 2000s, when several published studies explored the relationships between communities, archives, and collective memory. Jeannette Bastian’s \"Owning Memory: How a Caribbean Community Lost Its Archives and Found Its History\" is considered to be one of the most significant of these publications. Bastian discusses the experience of the people of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Virgin Islanders' efforts to rebuild their “house of memory” after losing local control of nearly all governmental documents and records to their historical and current colonial rulers. Bastian's work introduces several key concepts, including the notion of a \"community of records\" to acknowledge that communities are entities that both create records and whose input is needed to contextualize the records they create.\nCommunity archives may be developed via participatory or autonomous practices, and can occur in both physical and virtual spaces, including through the digitization of dispersed physical materials. The participatory archives model was defined by Isto Huvila in 2008 to discuss how individuals actively and consciously participate in the creation of shared heritage. Drawing on the idea of participatory culture (as opposed to consumer culture), the participatory collection's focus is to create opportunities for civic engagement and artistic expression, encouraging participants to share information and resources with the community to achieve a common goal. The autonomous archives framework was introduced in 2010 by Shauna Moore and Susan Pell to describe community-based collections that are constituted as intentional social and political acts by and for emerging publics, often enacted by those who have been traditionally excluded from the dominant cultural discourse. \n\nThe act of bringing together dispersed records online, also called “virtual reunification,” may encourage a more holistic understating of community history and strengthen community ties. However, communities that cannot support these endeavors on their own but wish to remain autonomous may face added complexity, due to the technological infrastructure required to ensure that collections are developed on a platform that can be supported and maintained over time. \n\nAs the term \"community archive\" has gained popularity, it has been applied in a variety of ways, including as a way to denote community participation in knowledge creation and preservation in ways that may challenge existing dominant historical and political narratives. However, the ambiguity inherent in defining the terms \"community\" and \"archives\" complicates attempts to discuss and define what is meant by \"community archives\". Therefore, allowing these independent entities to label and define their organizations and missions is one important way to support their activities.\n\nWhether community archives consider their endeavors to be political, exerting control over community documentation and storytelling inherently calls attention to issues of power manifest in traditional approaches to archival creation and maintenance. As the interest in, and number of, community archives increase globally, opportunities to document and share these efforts and materials with the general public may result in tension between community archives stakeholders and heritage professionals who are trained with an emphasis on legal, intellectual, and physical control of records. \n\nSince many community archives develop as independent social spaces, often distinct from mainstream narratives, their organizational champions may resist archival labels and/or intervention by trained professionals out of concern that collections may be absorbed by formal institutions and rendered inaccessible to their communities. Therefore, issues of independence and autonomy tend to be at the forefront of community archival identities, even if they seek partnerships or welcome support from traditional cultural heritage institutions.\n"}
{"id": "27491432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27491432", "title": "Constitution of Jamaica", "text": "Constitution of Jamaica\n\nThe Constitution of Jamaica is the constitution and highest law of Jamaica.\n\nAs a constituent province of the West Indies Federation, Jamaica became independent of the United Kingdom on 6 August 1962 under the Jamaica Independence Act 1962. Under the West Indies Act 1962, the monarchy of the United Kingdom was allowed to form governments for the former colonies of the West Indies Federation. Elizabeth II, by and with the advice of Her Privy Council, issued the Jamaica Order in Council 1962 which formally gave force and effect to the constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1007163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007163", "title": "Cultural conservatism", "text": "Cultural conservatism\n\n<onlyinclude>Cultural conservatism is described as the preservation of the heritage of one nation, or of a shared culture that is not defined by national boundaries.\nOther variants of cultural conservatism are concerned with culture attached to a given language such as Arabic or Icelandic.\n\nThe shared culture may be as divergent as Western culture or Chinese culture.\n\nCultural conservatism is distinct from social conservatism, although there are some overlaps. Social conservatives believe that the government has a role in encouraging or enforcing what they consider traditional values or behaviors. A social conservative wants to preserve traditional morality and social mores, often through civil law or regulation. Social conservatives generally view any social change as suspect, rather than just those related to culture or cultural tradition.\n\nIn the US, \"cultural conservative\" may imply a conservative position in the culture wars.\n\nAn example of a cultural conservative in the broader sense is Allan Bloom, arguing in \"The Closing of the American Mind\" against cultural relativism. Another example is Senator Jim Webb (D-Virginia), author of \"Born Fighting\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46836010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46836010", "title": "DesignMyNight.com", "text": "DesignMyNight.com\n\nDesignMyNight.com is a nightlife discovery website that was set up in 2011; it allows the customer to tailor their night out depending on their budget, where they want to go and what type of night they’re after. The site has coverage across 15 cities in the UK - London, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow, Brighton, Newcastle, Liverpool, Bristol, Bournemouth, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Leeds, Leicester and Reading. The company was branded as one of the world's best start ups in 2015 and top UK startup in 2014 generating over 4 million hits per month.\n\nDesignMyNight has also become a software provider for the nightlife industry with its own ticketing solution, Tonic, that can be integrated on the site and the client's site as well as an enquiry management and booking software, Collins.\n\nDesignMyNight.com was founded by Nick Telson and Andrew Webster whilst visiting New York City. They were both amazed by the nightlife knowledge of their Hotel Concierge and were inspired to help people discover their perfect night out in the UK. Both quit their corporate jobs at L’Oréal and Accenture and worked solely on DesignMyNight, with no income for two years, before the business took off in 2013.\n\nThe team at DesignMyNight, based in Hoxton, London is now 45 strong.\n\nDesignMyNight started off on personal funds of £15,000 before receiving investment from 6 prominent business Angels which amounted to £500,000 over two rounds. The Angel investors have a history of growing online brands and believed in the company's strong consumer facing site as well as the huge opportunity of growing the B2B software arm of the business.\n\nAfter the launch of the website itself, 2013 saw the launch of the DesignMyNight App, it gives access to thousands of venues and events, with ratings and reviews alongside the opportunity of booking tickets to events on the go. February 2014 then saw the launch of Collins, an enquiry management and booking software designed specifically for bars, restaurants with bars, pubs and private hire spaces. bar bookings and inquiry-management software. It allows venues to do real-time bookings from their site while also taking enquiries and managing them effectively within the system's back-end. The venue can also take payments, card authentications, manage emails and their client's database. 2014 also saw the launch of the ticketing software that allows event organisers to take advantage of DesignMyNight's 3 million monthly userbase while also making their own site or social media channels transactional.\n\nThe likes of Time Out and View London are consumer facing search sites and the two largest restaurant booking systems in the market are Opentable, recently acquired by Priceline and Livebookings/Bookatable.\n"}
{"id": "5523321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5523321", "title": "Disassociated Press", "text": "Disassociated Press\n\nDisassociated Press, or The Disassociated Press, is a common spoof on \"The Associated Press\" used by satirists to depict a fictitious news organization. It has been used throughout the years in entertainment and literature in a variety of vehicles, ranging from Looney Tunes cartoons from the 1950s through to modern Internet satiric web pages and web sites using that title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5038132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5038132", "title": "Edwardian Baroque architecture", "text": "Edwardian Baroque architecture\n\nEdwardian Baroque is the Neo-Baroque architectural style of many public buildings built in the British Empire during the Edwardian era (1901–1910).\n\nThe characteristic features of the Edwardian Baroque style were drawn from two main sources: the architecture of France during the 18th century and that of Sir Christopher Wren in England during the 17th—part of the English Baroque. Sir Edwin Lutyens was a major exponent, designing many commercial buildings in what he termed 'the Grand Style' during the later 1910s and 1920s. This period of British architectural history is considered a particularly retrospective one, since it is contemporary with Art Nouveau.\n\nTypical details of Edwardian Baroque architecture include extensive rustication, usually more extreme at ground level, often running into and exaggerating the voussoirs of arched openings (derived from French models); domed corner rooftop pavilions and a central taller tower-like element creating a lively rooftop silhouette; revived Italian Baroque elements such as exaggerated keystones, segmental arched pediments, columns with engaged blocks, attached block-like rustication to window surrounds; colonnades of (sometimes paired) columns in the Ionic order and domed towers modelled closely on Wren's for the Royal Naval College in Greenwich. Some Edwardian Baroque buildings include details from other sources, such as the Dutch gables of Norman Shaw's Piccadilly Hotel in London.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37730546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37730546", "title": "Eminent Historians", "text": "Eminent Historians\n\nEminent Historians: Their Techniques, Their Line, Their Fraud is Arun Shourie's fifteenth book and was published in 1998.\n\nIt discusses the NCERT controversy in Indian politics and attacks Marxist historiography. Shourie asserts that Marxist historians have controlled and misused important institutions like the Indian Council of Historical Research, the National Council of Educational Research Training (NCERT) and a large part of academia and the media. He criticizes well-known historians like Romila Thapar and Irfan Habib. Shourie argues that Marxist historians have white-washed the records of rulers like Mahmud of Ghazni and Aurangzeb. Shourie presents examples to further his argument of how many of these text books describe in great detail foreign personalities like Karl Marx or Joseph Stalin, while they often barely mention important figures of India or of the Indian states. Shourie writes that this is in contrast to Russian Marxist text books. The standard Soviet work, \"A History of India\" (1973), is according to Shourie much more objective and truthful than the history books written by Indian Marxists.\n\nThis book also talks about a circular which was issued by the Communist Government in West Bengal in 1989 in which it had asked the authors and the publishers of Class IX History textbooks to make sure that \"Muslim rule should never attract any criticism. Destruction of temples by muslim rulers and invaders should not be mentioned.\" \n\nThe book states in the preface:\n\nThey have made present-day India, and Hinduism even more so, out to be a zoo - an agglomeration of assorted, disparate specimens. No such thing as \"India\", just a geographical expression, just a construct of the British; no such thing as Hinduism, just a word used by Arabs to describe the assortment they encountered, just an invention of the communalists to impose a uniformity - that has been their stance. For this they have blackened the Hindu period of our history, and, as we shall see, strained to whitewash the Islamic period. (p. x)\nP. Heehs cited the book as an example of \"reactionary orientalists' reaction against a perceived attack on Indian spiritual values\". Edwin Bryant cites the book as an example of Hindu nationalist criticism of Marxist historiography.\n\nThe historian D.N. Jha, who is one of the scholars Shourie has attacked in his book, has refuted Shourie claiming Shourie has distorted his writings, made false allegations of plagiarism against him, and that Shourie's book contains errors and inaccuracies. The book, according to Jha, contains \"slander\" and \"has nothing to do with history.\" Jha also claims that Shourie's book has been written out of political opportunism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1081351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1081351", "title": "Encyclopædia Iranica", "text": "Encyclopædia Iranica\n\nEncyclopædia Iranica is a project whose goal is to create a comprehensive and authoritative English language encyclopedia about the history, culture, and civilization of Iranian peoples from prehistory to modern times.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" is dedicated to the study of Iranian civilization in the wider Middle East, the Caucasus, Europe, Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent. The academic reference work will eventually cover all aspects of Iranian history and culture as well as all Iranian languages and literatures, facilitating the whole range of Iranian studies research from archeology to political sciences. It is a project founded by Ehsan Yarshater at Columbia University, started in 1973 at its Center for Iranian Studies. It is considered the standard encyclopaedia of the academic discipline of Iranistics.\n\nThe scope of the encyclopedia goes beyond modern Iran (also known as \"Persia\") and encompasses the entire Iranian cultural sphere, and far beyond. Relations of the Iranian world with other cultures (China, European countries, etc.) are also covered.\n\nYarshater was the editor-in-chief, and managing editor is Ahmad Ashraf. The editorial board includes Nicholas Sims-Williams, Christopher J. Brunner, Mohsen Ashtiany, Manuchehr Kasheff, and over 40 Consulting Editors from major international institutions doing research in Iranian Studies. A growing number (over 1,300 in 2016) of scholars worldwide have contributed articles to \"Encyclopædia Iranica\".\n\nThe project has published 15 volumes, and is planning on publishing a total of up to 45 volumes. The full text of most entries is available free for on-line viewing. In a 2013 interview with BBC Persian, Yarshater stated that the completion of the project is scheduled for 2020.\n\nOn March 25, 2007, the Associated Press released a news report about \"Encyclopædia Iranica\", claiming that it is \"U.S.-backed\". \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" published an official response, saying the report was \"inaccurate and libelous\", that while the National Endowment for the Humanities supports the encyclopedia, the Endowment is \"an independent federal agency whose many projects are reviewed and decided upon by independent panels of scholars\", not the U.S. Government, and that only a third of the encyclopedia's budget is supplied by the Endowment, not half, as the Associated Press had claimed.\n\nMany foundations, organizations, and individuals have supported \"Encyclopædia Iranica\". The encyclopaedia has been sponsored since 1979 by the National Endowment for the Humanities, as well as the American Council of Learned Societies, Union Académique Internationale, Iran Heritage Foundation, and many other charitable foundations, philanthropic families and individuals.\n\nIn a review of Volume III, Richard W. Bulliet calls \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" \"not just a necessity for Iranists [but] of inestimable value for everyone concerned with the history and culture of the Middle East\". Ali Banuazizi, though, notes that its focus is on Iran \"as perceived, analyzed, and described by its most distinguished, mainly Western, students\". In 1998, the journal \"Iranian Studies\" devoted a double issue (vol. 31, no. 3/4) to reviews of the encyclopædia, coming to 700 pages by 29 authors on as many subjects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1097149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097149", "title": "Flash and circle", "text": "Flash and circle\n\nThe flash and circle is a political symbol used by several organisations. It was first used by the British Union of Fascists (BUF), and was adopted in 1935. The BUF had originally used the fasces as its symbol, first on a black disc on a gold background and later in gold with a lightning bolt struck through it on a black background. The flash and circle was designed as a more abstract depiction of the concept of the fasces incorporating the lightning of the 1933 flag within a \"circle of unity\" and the British national colours of red, white and blue. Oswald Mosley's post-war group the Union Movement and his National Party of Europe initiative continued to use the flash.\n\nThe American National Renaissance Party adopted the lightning bolt within a circle as their symbol, which superseded James Hartung Madole's use of the swastika. It decorated their rostrum and was worn on their armbands.\n\nThe BUF's left-wing opponents nicknamed the symbol \"the flash in the pan\".\nThe insignia of Singapore's People's Action Party (PAP) is composed of a red flash struck through a smaller blue circle on a white background. The PAP insignia is claimed to represent \"action within social/racial unity\" with the white background representing purity in thought and deed.\n\nA similar logo was adopted by \"Blocco Studentesco\", the youth wing of Italy's CasaPound movement in 2006. The group has been accused of fascist propaganda.\n\nThe simple combination of the lightning bolt and circle elements appears to have led to many similar designs unrelated to the flash and circle. These include the logo of BoltBus. One form of warning sign for high-voltage electricity uses a lightning bolt inside a circle, and this was repurposed by Marilyn Manson as an insignia for his album \"Antichrist Superstar\". In most cases, there is no evidence to suggest that the designer intended to evoke an association with political use of the symbol.\n\nParodies and fictional representations of fascist movements have also incorporated logos similar to the flash and circle.\n\nIn the alternate history film \"It Happened Here\", the flash and circle is used as the symbol of the fascist puppet government in Nazi-occupied Britain.\n\nIn one television adaptation of the Jeeves novels by P. G. Wodehouse, \"Jeeves and Wooster\", a similar insignia is used by the \"Blackshorts\", a political group led by Roderick Spode, a character based on Sir Oswald Mosley, the founder of the British Union of Fascists.\n"}
{"id": "7123339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7123339", "title": "Fleam Dyke", "text": "Fleam Dyke\n\nFleam Dyke is a 7.8 hectare biological Site of Special Scientific Interest between Fulbourn and Balsham in Cambridgeshire. It is also a Scheduled Monument. If formed a boundary of the late Saxon, pre-Norman administrative division of Flendish Hundred.\n\nThe dyke is a seven-metre-high linear bank and ditch which ran from Fulbourn to Balsham. Most of it survives and is now a footpath. In the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries Anglo-Saxon weapons and burials were found, and the dyke was thought to have been built in the seventh century as a defence of the Kingdom of East Anglia in its wars with Mercia.\n\nAn excavation in 1991 established that it had been built in several phases, the first between 330 and 510, and the last between 450 and 620. It is now believed most likely to have been built by early Anglo-Saxon settlers in the fifth century as a defence against Romano-British attempts to recover their territory.\n\nAt Mutlow Hill the dyke runs through a Bronze Age barrow, which was reused in the Roman period as a temple.\n\nFleam Dyke is one of several barriers that were built along Icknield Way and Street Way by Anglo-Saxon immigrants. Their purpose was to defend their core settlements in eastern Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Suffolk against Romano-British counterattacks in the 5th century AD.\n\nIcknield Way may be unremarkable nowadays but it is of huge historical importance. It is certainly a pre-Roman path often claimed as the oldest in England and was later named one of the \"Four Highways of medieval England\" on which travellers had royal protection. To that extent, Fleam Dyke, Flendish Hundred and Fulbourn have their place in history.\nFleam Dyke is one of 286 sites selected by Charles Rothschild in 1912 to 1915 as wildlife sites \"worthy of preservation\" in Britain and Ireland. The steep banks of the earthwork have species-rich chalk grassland, a rare habitat in the county. The dyke, which is maintained by grass cutting, is the only Cambridgeshire site for the common juniper.\n\nThe Harcamlow Way long distance footpath runs through the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "444515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444515", "title": "Generative grammar", "text": "Generative grammar\n\nGenerative grammar is a linguistic theory that regards grammar as a system of rules that generates exactly those combinations of words that form grammatical sentences in a given language. Noam Chomsky first used the term in relation to the theoretical linguistics of grammar that he developed in the late 1950s. Linguists who follow the generative approach have been called generativists. The generative school has focused on the study of syntax and addressed other aspects of a language's structure, including morphology and phonology.\n\nEarly versions of Chomsky's theory were called transformational grammar, which is still used as a general term that includes his subsequent theories. The most recent is the minimalist program, from which Chomsky and other generativists have argued that many of the properties of a generative grammar arise from a universal grammar that is innate to the human brain, rather than being learned from the environment (see the poverty of the stimulus argument).\n\nThere are a number of versions of generative grammar currently practiced within linguistics. A contrasting approach is that of constraint-based grammars. Where a generative grammar attempts to list all the rules that result in all well-formed sentences, constraint-based grammars allow anything that is not otherwise constrained. Constraint-based grammars that have been proposed include certain versions of dependency grammar, head-driven phrase structure grammar, lexical functional grammar, categorial grammar, relational grammar, link grammar, and tree-adjoining grammar. In stochastic grammar, grammatical correctness is taken as a probabilistic variable, rather than a discrete (yes or no) property.\n\nThere are a number of different approaches to generative grammar. Common to all is the effort to come up with a set of rules or principles that formally defines each and every one of the members of the set of well-formed expressions of a natural language. The term \"generative grammar\" has been associated with at least the following schools of linguistics:\n\nAlthough Leonard Bloomfield, whose work Chomsky rejects, saw the ancient Indian grammarian Pāṇini as an antecedent of structuralism, Chomsky, in an award acceptance speech delivered in India in 2001, claimed \"The first generative grammar in the modern sense was Panini's grammar\".\n\nGenerative grammar has been under development since the late 1950s, and has undergone many changes in the types of rules and representations that are used to predict grammaticality. In tracing the historical development of ideas within generative grammar, it is useful to refer to various stages in the development of the theory.\n\nThe so-called standard theory corresponds to the original model of generative grammar laid out by Chomsky in 1965.\n\nA core aspect of standard theory is the distinction between two different representations of a sentence, called deep structure and surface structure. The two representations are linked to each other by transformational grammar.\n\nThe so-called extended standard theory was formulated in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Features are:\n\nThe so-called revised extended standard theory was formulated between 1973 and 1976. It contains\n\nAn alternative model of syntax based on the idea that notions like subject, direct object, and indirect object play a primary role in grammar.\n\nChomsky's \"Lectures on Government and Binding\" (1981) and \"Barriers\" (1986).\n\nGenerative grammars can be described and compared with the aid of the Chomsky hierarchy (proposed by Chomsky in the 1950s). This sets out a series of types of formal grammars with increasing expressive power. Among the simplest types are the regular grammars (type 3); Chomsky claims that these are not adequate as models for human language, because of the allowance of the center-embedding of strings within strings, in all natural human languages.\n\nAt a higher level of complexity are the context-free grammars (type 2). The derivation of a sentence by such a grammar can be depicted as a derivation tree. Linguists working within generative grammar often view such trees as a primary object of study. According to this view, a sentence is not merely a string of words. Instead, adjacent words are combined into \"constituents\", which can then be further combined with other words or constituents to create a hierarchical tree-structure.\n\nThe derivation of a simple tree-structure for the sentence \"the dog ate the bone\" proceeds as follows. The determiner \"the\" and noun \"dog\" combine to create the noun phrase \"the dog.\" A second noun phrase \"the bone\" is created with determiner \"the\" and noun \"bone\". The verb \"ate\" combines with the second noun phrase, \"the bone,\" to create the verb phrase \"ate the bone\". Finally, the first noun phrase, \"the dog,\" combines with the verb phrase, \"ate the bone,\" to complete the sentence: \"the dog ate the bone\". The following tree diagram illustrates this derivation and the resulting structure:\n\nSuch a tree diagram is also called a phrase marker. They can be represented more conveniently in text form, (though the result is less easy to read); in this format the above sentence would be rendered as:\n[ [ [ The ] [ dog ] ] [ [ ate ] [ [ the ] [ bone ] ] ] ]\n\nChomsky has argued that phrase structure grammars are also inadequate for describing natural languages, and formulated the more complex system of transformational grammar.\n\nGenerative grammar has been used to a limited extent in music theory and analysis since the 1980s. The most well-known approaches were developed by Mark Steedman as well as Fred Lerdahl and Ray Jackendoff, who formalized and extended ideas from Schenkerian analysis. More recently, such early generative approaches to music were further developed and extended by various scholars. The theory of generative grammar has been manipulated by the Sun Ra Revival Post-Krautrock Archestra in the development of their post-structuralist lyrics. This is particularly emphasised in their song \"Sun Ra Meets Terry Lee\". French Composer Philippe Manoury applied the systematic of generative grammar to the field of contemporary classical music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5597581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597581", "title": "Guided reading", "text": "Guided reading\n\nGuided reading is 'small-group reading instruction designed to provide differentiated teaching that supports students in developing reading proficiency'. The small group model allows students to be taught in a way that is intended to be more focused on their specific needs, accelerating their progress.\n\nGuided reading is a method of teaching reading, common in England and Wales through the influence of the National Literacy Strategy (later superseded by the Primary National Strategy). It remains recommended practice in some authorities, this is despite discontinued hosting and support of the Primary National Strategy from the United Kingdom's Department for Education.\n\nIn the United States, Guided Reading is a key component to the Reading Workshop model of literacy instruction. Guided Reading sessions involve a teacher and a small group, ideally of two to four children although groups of five or six are not uncommon. The session would have a set of objectives to be taught during a session lasting approximately 20 minutes. While guided reading takes place with one group of children, the remaining children are engaged in quality independent or group literacy tasks, with the aim of allowing the teacher to focus the small group without interruption. Guided Reading is usually a daily activity in English and Welsh primary school classrooms and involves every child in a class over the course of a week. In the United States, Guided Reading can take place at both the primary and intermediate levels. Each Guided Reading group meets with the teacher several times throughout a given week. The children are typically grouped by academic ability, reading levels, or strategic/skill-based needs.\n\nThere is a lack of research on Guided Reading, but some studies have found it to be beneficial for students. In South Africa, The Literacy Leadership Project were able to let four Foundation Phase teachers implement Guided Reading for students of the Aregorogeng Primary School. Over the course of 8 months, results were able to demonstrate an improvement in student’s engagement and motivation on literacy (Makumbila and Rowland, 2016). Another study from Canada indicated that about 80% of 25 middle school students who received Guided Reading had an increase in reading proficiency (Lyons and Thompson, 2012).\n\nAlthough there are positive aspects to this type of reading instruction, there are also two main challenges that exist at every grade level. According to Irene Fountas and Gay Su Pinnell, \"some students will work on very basic reading skills such as word analysis and comprehending simple texts\" while other students may be working on more advanced reading skills and strategies with increasingly challenging texts. In addition, \"all students need instructional support so they can expand their competence across a greater variety of increasingly challenging texts.\" (Fountas and Pinnell). Thus, it takes a lot of strong planning and organization from the part of the teacher in order to successfully implement Guided Reading so that it meets the needs of all learners. Simultaneously, “a teacher’s goal is to strive to provide the most effective instruction possible and to match the difficulty of the material with the student’s current abilities. Materials should provide a challenge that is “just right” for the students” (Iaquinta, 2006). Guided Reading is a complex approach and teachers are essential in the development and execution of a Balanced Literacy program.\n\nA critical component of the Reading Workshop is text selection; it must be purposeful and have the needs of the learners in mind. According to Fountas and Pinnell, as a teacher reads \"a text in preparation for teaching, you decide what demands the text will make on the processing systems of the readers.\" Texts should not be chosen to simply teach a specific strategy. Rather, the texts should be of such high quality that students can apply a wide range of reading comprehension strategies throughout the reading. \"One text offers many opportunities to learn; you must decide how to mediate the text to guide your students' learning experiences\" (Fountas and Pinnell).\n\nSteps for a Lesson\n\nBefore Reading: A Teacher will access background knowledge, build schema, set a purpose for reading, and preview the text with students. Typically a group will engage in a variety of pre-reading activities such as predicting, learning new vocabulary, and discussing various text features. If applicable, the group may also engage in completing a \"picture walk.\" This activity involves scanning through the text to look at pictures and predicting how the story will go. The students will engage in a conversation about the story, raise questions, build expectations, and notice information in the text (Fountas and Pinnell).\n\nDuring Reading: The students will read independently within the group. As students read, the teacher will monitor student decoding and comprehension. The teacher may ask students if something makes sense, encourage students to try something again, or prompt them to use a strategy. The teacher makes observational notes about the strategy use of individual readers and may also take a short running record of the child's reading. The students may read the whole text or a part of the text silently or softly for beginning readers (Fountas and Pinnell).\n\nAfter Reading: Following the reading, the teacher will again check students' comprehension by talking about the story with the children. The teacher returns to the text for teaching opportunities such as finding evidence or discussing problem solving. The teacher also uses this time to assess the students' understanding of what they have read. The group will also discuss reading strategies they used during the reading. To extend the reading, students may participate in activities such as drama, writing, art, or more reading (Fountas and Pinnell).\n\n\"Adult with group\". Prepare the children, providing support through reading the title, talking about the type of text, looking at the pictures and accessing previous knowledge. Aim to give them confidence without reading the book to them. If necessary, locate and preview difficult new words and unfamiliar concepts or names. A variety of books/genres can be used.\n\"Adult with group\". Introduce or review specific reading strategies that the children have been taught and remind them to use these when reading.\n\n\"Individuals\". Children read the book at their own pace. Monitor individuals and use appropriate prompts to encourage problem-solving. Praise correct use of reading strategies.\n\n\"Adult with group\". Briefly talk about what has been read to check children's understanding. Praise correct use of reading strategies.\n\n\"Adult with group\". Encourage children to respond to the book either through a short discussion where they express opinions, or through providing follow-up activities.\n\n\"Individuals.\" Provide a 'familiar book' box for each group, containing texts recently used in Guided Reading. Children can re-read texts to themselves or with a partner as an independent activity to give them opportunities to develop fluency and expression and build up 'reading miles'.\n\nThere are three models of guided reading that can be used based upon the above structure depending upon the National Curriculum (NC) level that the group is reading at. The models do overlap.\n\nThis model is used for children who are reading up to about NC level 1A/2C. In this model the book introduction, strategy check, independent reading, return to text and response to text all take place generally within one session. This is aided by the fact that the books suitable for children reading at this stage are very short. (Baker, Bickler and Bodman)\n\nThis model is used for children who are reading at NC level 2C to 3C/B. Generally two guided sessions will be needed to read a book. The first session generally focuses on the book introduction, strategy check and independent reading. Whilst children are reading at their own pace, it is important to start to introduce an element of silent reading. This is to develop the skills of meaning making when reading independently. Because books at this stage are generally longer, it is not possible to read the whole book in one session. Once the children have done some reading in the session they can be asked to read the rest of the book prior to the second session. This session then focuses on returning to the text and responding to the text. These are the more able children and not those at level 1\n\nReaders working at a NC level of 3B upwards will need the fluent model of guided reading. Here it is not necessary for children to read the text during the guided sessions. At these levels children can generally decode the words. What is important is that they discuss the meaning that they make from the text which will form the basis of the discussion. Therefore, the session tends to focus on return to text and response to the text with the strategy check implicit in the discussions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50190549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50190549", "title": "Heinrich Wenzel", "text": "Heinrich Wenzel\n\nHeinrich Wenzel (7 June 1855 in Mainz – 16 June 1893 in London) was a German Indologist and Tibetologist.\n\nHe studied at the universities of Jena, Leipzig and Tübingen, receiving his doctorate at the latter institution with a thesis on the instrumental case involving the Rigveda (1879). By way of a recommendation from Ludwig Noiré, he continued his Oriental studies in Oxford under Max Müller. While here, he focused his attention on the then little-known Tibetan language and literature. From 1881 he spent the next two years in Herrnhut, where he studied Tibetology with Moravian missionary Heinrich August Jäschke. In 1883 Wenzel published the second edition of Jäschke's \"Tibetan grammar\".\n\nIn 1886, he obtained his habilitation at Leipzig with a translation of Nāgārjuna's \"Suhṛllekha\". Later on, he returned to England, initially residing in Oxford, eventually settling in London. Among his writings were translations of works by Russian scholars. He reportedly was fluent in a dozen different languages.\n"}
{"id": "53363799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53363799", "title": "Karen Redrobe", "text": "Karen Redrobe\n\nKaren Redrobe (also known as Karen Beckman) is Elliot and Roslyn Jaffe Endowed Professor in Film Studies and chair of the department of the History of Art at the University of Pennsylvania. Her research has dealt with film theory, animation, and feminism, among other topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "54500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54500", "title": "Kültepe", "text": "Kültepe\n\nKültepe (Turkish: \"Ash Hill\") is an archaeological site in Kayseri Province, Turkey. The nearest modern city to Kültepe is Kayseri, about 20 km southwest. It consists of a tell, the actual Kültepe, and a lower town, where an Assyrian settlement was found. Its name in Assyrian texts from the 20th century BC was Kaneš; the later Hittites mostly called it Neša, occasionally Aniša. In 2014 the archaeological site was inscribed in the Tentative list of World Heritage Sites in Turkey. It is also the site of discovery of the earliest traces of the Hittite language, and the earliest attestation of any Indo-European language, written in Old Assyrian, dated to the 20th century BC.\n\nKaneš, inhabited continuously from the Chalcolithic to Roman times, flourished as an important Hattian, Hittite and Hurrian city, containing a large \"kārum\" (merchant colony) of the Old Assyrian Empire from c. the 21st to 18th centuries BC. This \"kārum\" appears to have served as \"the administrative and distribution centre of the entire Assyrian colony network in Anatolia.\" A late (c. 1400 BC) witness to an old tradition includes a king of Kaneš called Zipani among seventeen local city-kings who rose up against Naram-Sin of Akkad (ruled c. 2254-2218 BC). \n\nThe king of Zalpuwa, Uhna, raided Kanes, after which the Zalpuwans carried off the city's \"Šiuš\" idol. Pithana, the king of Kussara, conquered Neša \"in the night, by force\", but \"did no evil to anyone in it.\" Neša revolted against the rule of Pithana's son, Anitta, but Anitta quashed the revolt and made Neša his capital. Anitta further invaded Zalpuwa, captured its king Huzziya, and recovered the \"Šiuš\" idol for Neša.\n\nIn the 17th century BC, Anitta's descendants moved their capital to Hattusa, which Anitta had cursed, thus founding the line of Hittite kings. The inhabitants thus referred to the Hittite language as \"Nešili\", \"the language of Neša\".\n\nIn 1925, Bedřich Hrozný excavated Kültepe and found over 1000 cuneiform tablets, some of which ended up in Prague and in Istanbul.\nModern archaeological work began in 1948, when Kültepe was excavated by a team from the Turkish Historical Society and the General Directorate of Antiquities and Museums. The team was led by Tahsin Özgüç until his death, in 2005.\n\nSome attribute Level II's burning to the conquest of the city of Assur by the kings of Eshnunna, but Bryce blames it on the raid of Uhna. Some attribute Level Ib's burning to the fall of Assur, other nearby kings and eventually to Hammurabi of Babylon.\n\nTo date, over 20,000 cuneiform tablets have been recovered from the site.\nThe quarter of the city that most interests historians is the \"kārum\", a portion of the city that was, during the Chalcolithic, set aside by local officials for the early Assyrian merchants to use without paying taxes as long as the goods remained inside the \"kārum\". The term \"kārum\" means \"port\" in Akkadian, the \"lingua franca\" of the time, but its meaning was later extended to refer to any trading colony whether or not it bordered water.\n\nSeveral other cities in Anatolia also had a \"kārum\", but the largest was Kaneš, whose important \"kārum\" was inhabited by soldiers and merchants from Assyria for hundreds of years. They traded local tin and wool for luxury items, foodstuffs, spices and woven fabrics from the Assyrian homeland and Elam.\n\nThe remains of the \"kārum\" form a large circular mound 500 m in diameter and about 20 m above the plain (a tell). The \"kārum\" settlement is the result of several superimposed stratigraphic periods. New buildings were constructed on top of the remains of the earlier periods so there is a deep stratigraphy from prehistoric times to the early Hittite period.\n\nThe \"kārum\" was destroyed by fire at the end of both levels II and Ib. The inhabitants left most of their possessions behind, to be found by modern archaeologists.\n\nThe findings have included numerous baked-clay tablets, some of which were enclosed in clay envelopes stamped with cylinder seals. The documents record common activities, such as trade between the Assyrian colony and the city-state of Assur and between Assyrian merchants and local people. The trade was run by families rather than the state. The Kültepe texts are the oldest documents from Anatolia. Although they are written in Old Assyrian, the Hittite loanwords and names in the texts are the oldest record of any Indo-European language (see also Ishara). Most of the archaeological evidence is typical of Anatolia rather than of Assyria, but the use of both cuneiform and the dialect is the best indication of Assyrian presence.\n\nAt Level II, the destruction was so total that no wood survived for dendrochronological studies. In 2003, researchers from Cornell University dated wood in level Ib from the rest of the city, built centuries earlier. The dendrochronologists date the bulk of the wood from buildings of the Waršama Sarayi to 1832 BC, with further refurbishments up to 1779 BC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238856", "title": "Labialized velar consonant", "text": "Labialized velar consonant\n\nA labialized velar or labiovelar is a velar consonant that is labialized, with a /w/-like secondary articulation. Common examples are , which are pronounced like a , with rounded lips, such as the labialized voiceless velar plosive . Such sounds occur across Africa and the Americas, in the Caucasus, etc.\n\nThe most common labiovelar consonant is the voiced approximant . It is normally a labialized velar, as is its vocalic cousin . (Labialization is called rounding in vowels, and a velar place is called back.)\n\nHowever, languages such as Japanese and perhaps the Northern Iroquoian languages have something closer to a true labial–velar approximant in which the lips come together. In close transcription, the symbol may be then avoided or used with an under-rounding diacritic: .\n\n\nThe voiceless approximant is traditionally called a \"voiceless labial–velar fricative\", but true doubly articulated fricatives are not known to be used in any language, as they are quite difficult to pronounce and even more difficult to distinguish. (The symbol is very occasionally used for a labialized velar fricative, even if that usage is not approved by the IPA.)\n\nLabialized velars frequently derive from a plain velar followed by a rounded (labialized) vowel, such as or . In turn, they may sometimes develop into simple bilabial consonants. An example of this is the development of Proto-Indo-European *kʷ, *gʷ before *a or *o into Greek /p, b/, producing cognates as different as English \"come\" and \"basis\". The full sequence is demonstrated by the Satsuma dialect of Japanese: in northern Satsuma, Standard Japanese 'eat!' has contracted to ; in southern Satsuma, it has proceeded further to .\n\nA notable development is the initial *kʷ in Proto-Indo-European interrogative words. In English, it developed into \"wh\" or \"h\" (\"how\"), pronounced /w/ in most dialects and /h/, respectively, via Grimm's law followed by \"wh\"-cluster reductions. By contrast, in Latin and its descendents, the Romance languages, that developed into \"qu\" (later Spanish \"cu\" (\"cuando\") and \"c\" (\"como\")), pronounced variously as /kw/ or /k/. See etymology of English interrogative words for details. The English phonemic spelling \"kw\" for \"qu\" (as in \"kwik\") echoes its origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "32017750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32017750", "title": "Languaculture", "text": "Languaculture\n\nLanguaculture is a term meaning that a language includes not only elements such as grammar and vocabulary, but also past knowledge, local and cultural information, habits and behaviours. The term was created by the American anthropologist Michael Agar.\n\nAgar used the term \"languaculture\" for the first time in his essay \"Language Shock: Understanding the culture of conversation\". Languaculture is an adjustment of the term \"linguaculture\", suggested by the American linguistic anthropologist Paul Friedrich. Agar explains the vowel change stating that language is a more commonly used word.\n\nWhen Agar talks about languaculture, he defines it as the necessary tie between language and culture. He underlines that languages and cultures are always closely related and it is not possible to distinguish languages from cultures. Therefore, you cannot really know a language if you do not know also the culture expressed by that language.\n\nThe notion of culture and its understanding involve the link between two different languacultures that Agar define LC1 (source languaculture) and LC2 (target languaculture).\n\nThe learning of target languaculture is driven by \"rich points\". We realize that a culture is different from ours when we face some behaviours which we do not understand. Rich points are those surprises, those departures from an outsider’s expectations that signal a difference between source languaculture and target languaculture. They are the moments of incomprehension, when you suddenly do not know what is happening. In this situation different reactions are possible. You can ignore the rich point and hope that the next part makes sense. You can perceive it as evidence that the person who produced it has some lacks. Or you can wonder why you do not understand and if maybe some other languaculture comes into play. Therefore, rich points belong to daily life and not only to language. Agar highlights that the term \"rich\" has the positive connotations of thickness, wealth and abundance. The largest rich point is the total incomprehension due to huge differences between source languaculture and target languaculture. In this case we are facing a ‘culture shock’ that causes a deep bewilderment. The smallest rich point can occur among different groups of the same community.\nThe existence of rich points comes from the fact that every statement implicitly refers to various elements that are taken for granted in a certain culture and do not match the elements of another culture (cultural implicitness).\n\nAccording to Agar, culture is a construction, a translation between source languaculture and target languaculture. Like a translation, it makes no sense to talk about the culture of X without saying the culture of X for Y, taking into account the standpoint from which it is observed. For this reason culture is relational.\nMoreover, culture is always plural. No person or group can be described, explained or generalized completely with a single cultural label.\n\n"}
{"id": "14006156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14006156", "title": "Lillian Robinson", "text": "Lillian Robinson\n\nLillian Sara Robinson (April 18, 1941 – September 20, 2006) was a Marxist feminist activist, writer, and theorist. She was the principal of the Simone de Beauvoir Institute and professor of Women's studies at Concordia University at the time of her death. She is described as \"revolutionary, Marxist, and feminist...an activist student\".\n\nRobinson grew up in New York City, the child of Jewish immigrants. She earned a B.A./M.A. degree at Brown University in 1962, and a Ph.D. from Columbia University. Her dissertation was published in 1985. Throughout her life, Robinson was actively involved in various civil and human rights struggles. She marched against the US war in Vietnam, racism, and, shortly before her death, also worked with the \"Jewish Alliance Against the Occupation\" branch in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nHer work in women's studies was groundbreaking for its time. She insisted that \"gender could not usefully be studied except in relationship to race and class\". Her views on this matter are expounded upon in her work \"Sex, Class, and Culture\". A particularly noteworthy article in this book on the importance of examining race and class is \"Who's Afraid of a Room of One's Own?\" in which she discusses developments in the realm of sexuality and politics as it pertains to women since Virginia Woolf's time. She argues that class plays a much greater role in determining what kind of place and identity a woman has in society, which was not thoroughly examined in Woolf's work \"A Room of One's Own\". She also argues that the sexual freedom that women have gained since the sexual revolution has come at a cost, that in fact \"permission to be unchaste has not freed women from the object-role we occupied when it was chastity that was the valued commodity\".\n\nProfessor Robinson was Poet in Residence at Albright College in Reading Pennsylvania during the 1984–1985 academic year.\n\nLillian Robinson died of ovarian cancer in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on September 20, 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2183860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2183860", "title": "Limited edition books", "text": "Limited edition books\n\nA limited edition book is a book that is released in a limited quantity print run, usually much smaller than publishing industry standards, usually less than 1000 copies. The term connotes a level of scarcity or exclusivity. A limited edition book of more than about 1000 copies is misleading as it would be much less likely in general to become scarce.\n\nThe term also implies that no further additional printings of the book will be released with the same design treatment, unlike open-ended trade editions wherein further copies may be released in more print runs as the first and subsequent printings are sold out.\n\nLimited edition books may also be numbered or lettered to distinguish in that set each book. For example, a numbered, limited book could have a marking such as \"Copy 1 of a limited edition of 250 copies\" or \"1/250\". Much less common is the lettered limited edition book that could have denotations such as \"1 of 26\" or \"1/26\" or \"A of 26\" or \"Copy A\", etc. Sometimes a copy of a limited edition book is stated as being \"out of series\": this is an unnumbered copy, often a review copy.\n\nLimited edition books are also sometimes signed by the author, illustrator and/or other contributors to make them more exclusive and collectible. In some instances, the limited edition version contains additional material not found in the mass market (or trade) version of the book. Likewise, they are sometimes housed in slipcases.\n\n"}
{"id": "51985855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51985855", "title": "List of United States dependent visas", "text": "List of United States dependent visas\n\nA dependent United States visa is a type of visa which allows spouses and children to travel to the United States for the purpose of accompanying a family member with a corresponding visa type. While many visa classes have their own dependent visa, others do not. Some of these require all family members to apply for the same visa class, such as E-2 and C-2 visas. Others such as the D-1 visa do not allow travel for dependents at all. Certain restrictions apply depending on the type of dependent visa an individual is seeking.\n\nThe dependent visa classes are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "3025505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025505", "title": "List of language subsystems", "text": "List of language subsystems\n\nIn linguistics, languages are often studied in terms of six major subsystems, which relate to major subfields within linguistics. In addition, particular subfields of linguistic inquiry may divide their subject matter into more specific subsystems. This list contains links to commonly studied language subsystems.\n\nLinguists recognize seven major language subsystems:\n\n\nThis division varies among linguists and authors. For example, phonetics and phonology are occasionally merged into one subsystem. Morphology and lexicology can also be merged.\n\n"}
{"id": "3810865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3810865", "title": "Loathly lady", "text": "Loathly lady\n\nThe loathly lady (Motif D732 in Stith Thompson's motif index), is a tale type commonly used in medieval literature, most famously in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Wife of Bath's Tale\". The motif is that of a woman who appears unattractive (ugly, \"loathly\") but undergoes a transformation upon being approached by a man in spite of her unattractiveness, becoming extremely desirable. It is then revealed that her ugliness was the result of a curse which was broken by the hero's action.\n\nThe loathly lady can be found in \"The Adventures of the Sons of Eochaid Mugmedon\", in which Niall of the Nine Hostages proves himself the rightful High King of Ireland by embracing her, because she turns out to personify the sovereignty of the territory (and is therefore sometimes referred in scholarship as a 'sovereignty goddess'). The motif can also be found in stories of the earlier high kings Lugaid Loígde and Conn of the Hundred Battles.\n\nIn the Fenian Cycle of Irish mythology, Diarmuid Ua Duibhne was one of the most famous members of the Fianna. One freezing winter's night, the Loathly Lady brazenly entered the Fianna lodge, where the warriors had just gone to bed after a hunting expedition. Drenched to the bone, her sodden hair was snarled and knotted. Desperate for warmth and shelter, she knelt beside each warrior and demanded a blanket, beginning with their leader Fionn. Despite her rants and temper tantrums, the tired men only rolled over and ignored her in the hope that she would leave. Only young Diarmuid, whose bed was nearest to the fireplace, took pity on the wretched woman, giving her his bed and blanket. The Loathly Lady noticed Diarmuid's love spot and said that she had wandered the world alone for 7 years. Diarmuid reassured her and told her she could sleep all night and that he would protect her. Towards dawn, he became aware that she had become a beautiful young woman.\n\nThe next day, the Loathly Lady rewarded Diarmuid's kindness by offering him his greatest wish—a house overlooking the sea. Overjoyed, Diarmuid asked the woman to live with him. She agreed on one condition: He must promise never to mention how ugly she looked on the night they met. After 3 days together, Diarmuid grew restless. The Loathly Lady offered to watch his greyhound and her new pups while he went hunting. On three separate occasions, Diarmuid's friends, envious of his good luck, visited the lady and asked for one of the new pups. Each time, she honoured the request. Each time, Diarmuid was angry and asked her how she could repay him so meanly when he overlooked her ugliness the first night they met. On the third mention of that which he had promised never to speak of, the Loathly Lady and the house disappeared, and his beloved greyhound died.\n\nRealizing that his ungratefulness has caused him to lose everything he valued, Diarmuid set out to find his lady. He used an enchanted ship to cross a stormy sea. Arriving in the Otherworld, he searched for the lady through green meadows filled with brightly coloured horses and silver trees. Three times he spied a drop of ruby-red blood and gathered each drop into his handkerchief. When a stranger revealed that the King's gravely ill daughter had just returned after 7 years, Diarmuid realised it must be his lady. Rushing to her side, he discovered she was dying. The 3 drops of blood Diarmuid collected were from her heart, spilled each time she thought of Diarmuid. The only cure was a cup of healing water from the Plain of Wonder, guarded by a jealous king and his army. Diarmuid vowed to bring back the cup.\n\nHis quest for the healing cup nearly ended at an impassable river. Diarmuid was stumped until the Red Man of All Knowledge, who had red hair and eyes like glowing coals, helped him cross the river and then guided him to the king of the healing cup's castle. Once there, Diarmuid issued a challenge and in response the king first sent out one thousand six hundred fighting men, then one thousand eight hundred. Diarmuid single-handedly slew them all. Impressed, the king gave him the cup of healing. On the return trip, the Red Man advised Diarmuid on how to heal his lady. He also warned the young hero that when her sickness ended, Diarmuid's love for her would end as well. Diarmuid refused to believe the prophecy, but indeed, it came true. The lady sadly understood that Diarmuid's love for her had died. She couldn't live in his world any more than he could live in hers. Diarmuid boarded an enchanted ship to return to the Fianna, where he was greeted by his friends and his greyhound, which the lady had returned to life as her final gift to him.\n\nIn her capacity as a quest-bringer, the loathly lady can be found in the literature of the Holy Grail, including Chrétien de Troyes' \"Perceval, the Story of the Grail\", Wolfram von Eschenbach's \"Parzival\", and the Welsh Romance \"Peredur, son of Efrawg\" associated with the \"Mabinogion\". The motif also appears in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Middle High German romance \"Parzival\" in the character of Cundrie, the messenger of the Grail.\n\nThe theme became a staple of Arthurian literature; the best known treatment is in the Wife of Bath's Tale, in which a knight, told that he can choose whether his bride is to be ugly yet faithful, or beautiful yet false, frees the lady from the form entirely by allowing her to choose for herself. A variation on this story is attached to Sir Gawain in the related romances \"The Wedding of Sir Gawain and Dame Ragnelle\" and \"The Marriage of Sir Gawain\". \n\nAnother version of the motif is the ballad King Henry. In this ballad, the king must appease the loathly lady as she demands increasing tribute from him. The next morning, he is surprised as she transforms into a beautiful woman.\n\nThe loathly lady also appears in the Old Norse \"Hrólfr Kraki's saga\" where Hróarr's brother Helgi was visited one Yule by an ugly being while he was in his hunting house. No person in the entire kingdom allowed the being to enter the house, except Helgi. Later, the thing asked to sleep in his bed. Unwillingly he agreed, and as the thing got into the bed, it turned into an elvish woman, who was clad in silk and who was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. He raped her, and made her pregnant with a daughter named Skuld. Helgi forgot the woman and a couple of days after the date had passed, he was visited by the woman, who had Skuld in her arms. The daughter would later marry Hjörvarðr, Hrólfr Kraki's killer. This tradition is also present in the Northumbrian tale The Laidly Worm of Spindleston Heugh. Similar to this tale, is that of Hjálmþés saga ok Ölvis.\n\nThe tale told by The Wife of Bath in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" is one of the most prominent examples of the loathly lady motif. The story begins during the rule of King Arthur over the Isle of Britain. It was a time when the people of the Isle of Britain were terrorized by friars who raped women. Instead of getting the women pregnant like the incubus did in the past, the Friars solely brought shame upon them without impregnating them. The plot of the story begins when a Knight of King Arthur's court rapes a young woman when he is overpowered by his lust for her. The King and his court then come to the conclusion that decapitation is a punishment fit for the crime at hand, however the decision is intercepted by the Queen and women of the court before it can be executed. The women persuade the King to grant him another chance on one condition. They propose that if the Knight can find what women desire most from their partners and report it back to them in time, then the Knight will keep his head. King Arthur then proceeds to accept the women's punishment and grants the knight this second chance. The Knight quickly seizes this opportunity and sets out on a journey that becomes more difficult than he first anticipated. Early in his quest the Knight comes to realize that each woman he questions seems to give him a different answer than the last. As the Knight's time begins to run out, he comes across a group of young women dancing and sets out to question them as well. But as the Knight draws near, to his dismay, the group vanishes and turns into a \"loathly\" old woman (a hag), who offers to help him with his dilemma. The old woman joins the Knight on his quest back and aids him in giving the answer to the women of the court. Together, the Knight and the Loathly Lady tell the women of the court that women desire sovereignty the most in their love life: women want to be treated as equal partners in their love relationships. The Wife of Bath continues with her tale and says that the loathly woman asks the knight to marry her in return for helping him. The knight submits to the hag's request although he pleads for her to take his material wealth instead. They marry and consummate the marriage that very night. When the old woman realizes how unhappy the Knight is she asks him why he is so sorrowful and he tells her that he is unhappy to have married such an unattractive wife. The wife responds to this comment by giving the Knight a choice: either he can have an old, unattractive, yet loyal wife or a young and beautiful wife that will be unfaithful to him. The knight decides to let his wife choose, and she transforms instead into a wife both beautiful and loyal, because he gave her the sovereignty to choose. The moral that the Wife of Bath is attempting to get across is that a woman's greatest wish is the same as a man's: to be loved as an autonomous equal within a relationship. Geoffrey Chaucer shook the ideology associated with gender roles in the fourteenth century. Women in the middle ages were seen as subordinates to men in all situations including marriage, with some rare exceptions, and the idea of women having control in male/female relationships was unpopular. Marriage was a concrete and exclusive bond between husband and wife, in which wives had to submit to their husband's authority in all matters. With the popularity that Chaucer gained in the Middle Ages, his concept of an authoritative woman in his literary works helped redefine (along with the help of historical figures such as Isabella I of Castile and Joan of Arc) the way Middle Age society regarded women. The theme of the loathly lady opposed the norms of a patriarchal society and played a role in the beginnings of a feminist critique. Geoffrey Chaucer's Wife of Bath was a critical voice that contrasted with the society that he lived in. Using the loathly lady legend, she shapes the moral of her story to be that women always need control over themselves and should be allowed to exercise this privilege. This caught the attention of many scholars, which along with the other moral satires of Chaucer's writings, enabled it to be passed on to affect the ideologies of new generations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1170520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170520", "title": "Louisiana Creole", "text": "Louisiana Creole\n\nLouisiana Creole ('; ), also called Louisiana French Creole, is a French-based creole language spoken by far fewer than 10,000 people, mostly in the state of Louisiana. Due to the rapidly shrinking number of speakers, Louisiana Creole is considered an endangered language.\n\nLouisiana was founded and populated by French Immigrants from Canada and France. The colony was established by the Iberville brothers at the headwater of the Mississippi River in 1699. The French colonists were small-scale homesteaders and cattle ranchers who had little success in garnering forced free labour from the Indigenous peoples that inhabited the area; this created a perceived need to import African slaves. It is estimated that a total of 5,500 individuals were brought over from the Senegambia region of West Africa beginning in about 1719. These people originally spoke a Mande language related to Malinke and they were in contact with other languages such as Ewe, Yoruba and Kikongo. The importation of slaves by the French regime continued until 1743.\n\nLouisiana Creole is a contact language that arose in the 18 century from interactions between speakers of the lexifier language of Standard French and several substrate or adstrate languages from Africa. [P]rior to its establishment as a Creole, the precursor was considered a pidgin language. The social situation that gave rise to the Louisiana Creole language was unique, in that the lexifier language was the language found at the contact site. More often the lexifier is the language that arrives at the contact site belonging to the substrate/adstrate languages. Neither the French, French-Canadians, or African slaves were native to the area; this fact categorizes Louisiana Creole as a contact language that arose between exogenous ethnicities. Once the pidgin tongue was transmitted to the next generation as a \"lingua franca\" (who were then considered the first native speakers of the new grammar), it could effectively be classified as a creole language.\n\nThe boundaries of historical Louisiana were shared by the Spaniards and the Anglo-Americans. By the time of the Louisiana Purchase by the U.S in 1803, the boundaries came to include most of the Central U.S, ranging from present day Montana; parts of North Dakota, Wyoming, Colorado; all of South Dakota, Nebraksa, and Kansas; part of Southeast Texas; all of Oklahoma; most of Missouri and Arkansas; as well as Louisiana.\n\nThe first document found to acknowledge the existence of the Louisiana Creole was a transcript from a murder trial in 1978. The documentation does not include any examples of orthography or structure.\n\nIn a document that is dated from 1807, a grammatical description of the language is included in the experiences of a woman named Robin, prior the arrival of Saint-Domingue Indigenous immigrants. The statements collected from the slave showed linguistic features that are now known to be typical of Louisiana Creole.\n\n“Criollo” appeared in a legal court document dated 1972; the Spanish reference to the language stated that the language was used among slaves and whites. \n\nSlavery of Africans intensified with the surrender of the colony to Spain in 176; there were few Spaniards who came to live in the colony. At this time Louisiana exhibited a unique demographic feature; the colony population of minorities greatly outnumbered the settlers.\n\nIn the case of Louisiana Creole, a \"diglossia\" resulted between Louisiana Creole and Plantation Society French (PSF) also known as \"Colonial French\". The latter was frequently associated with plantation owners, plantation overseers, small landowners, military officers/soldiers and bilingual, free people of color. Over the centuries, Louisiana Creole's negative associations with slavery have stigmatized the language to the point where many speakers are reluctant to use it for fear of ridicule. In this way, the assignment of \"high\" variety (or H language) was allotted to PSF and that of \"low\" variety (or L language) was given to Louisiana Creole (please refer to diglossia for more information on H and L languages).\n\nThe social status of Louisiana Creole further declined as a result of the Louisiana Purchase. The promise of upward socioeconomic mobility prompted many speakers of Louisiana Creole to abandon their stigmatised language in favor of English. Additionally, the development of industry, technology and infrastructure in Louisiana reduced the isolation of Louisiana Creolophone communities and resulted in the arrival of more English-speakers, resulting in further exposure to English. Because of this, Louisiana Creole exhibits extensive influence from English, including loanwords, code-switching and syntactic calquing.\n\nToday, Louisiana Creole is spoken by fewer than 10,000 people. Though national census data includes figures on language usage, these are often unreliable in Louisiana due to respondents' tendencies to identify their language in line with their ethnic identity. For example, speakers of Louisiana Creole who identify as Cajuns often label their language 'Cajun French', though on linguistic grounds their language would be considered Louisiana Creole.\n\nEfforts to revitalize French in Louisiana have placed emphasis on \"Cajun French\", to the exclusion of Creole. However, community organisations such as CREOLE, Inc. have led a handful of community-level efforts to promote the language. CREOLE, Inc., for example, has organised a 'Creole Table' in St. Martinville, as well as a number of other language-focused events. In addition, there is an active online community of language-learners and activists engaged in language revitalization, led by language activist Christophe Landry. These efforts have resulted in the creation of a semi-standardized orthography and a digitalized version of Valdman et al.'s \"Louisiana Creole Dictionary\". A first language primer was released in 2017.\n\nSpeakers of Louisiana Creole are mainly concentrated in south and southwest Louisiana, where the population of Creolophones is distributed across the region. St. Martin Parish forms the heart of the Creole-speaking region. Other sizeable communities exist along Bayou Têche in St. Landry, Avoyelles, Iberia, and St. Mary Parishes. There are smaller communities on False River in Pointe-Coupée Parish, in Terrebone Parish, and along the lower Mississippi River in Ascension, St. Charles Parish, and St. James and St. John the Baptist parishes.\n\nThere are also numbers of Creolophones in Natchitoches Parish on Cane River and sizable communities of Louisiana Creole-speakers in adjacent Southeast Texas (Beaumont, Houston, Port Arthur, Galveston) and the Chicago area. Louisiana Creole speakers in California reside in Los Angeles, San Diego and San Bernardino counties and in Northern California (San Francisco Bay Area, Sacramento County, Plumas County, Tehama County, Mono County, and Yuba County.). Historically, there were Creole-speaking communities in Mississippi and Alabama (on Mon Louis Island), however it is likely that no speakers remain in these areas.\n\nThe Creole experience in Louisiana is a close cousin to Creole cultures world-wide. The nearest examples are found in the Caribbean: Cuba, Haiti, Guadeloupe and Martinique. The Indian Ocean holds: Réunion, Mauritius, Seychelles and Goa. In South America, the Guianas and Brazil are recognized as Creole countries.\n\nDefinite articles in Louisiana Creole vary between the \"le\", \"la\" and \"les\" used in standard French (a testament of possible decreolization in some areas) and \"a\" and \"la\" for the singular, and \"yé\" for the plural. Louisiana Creole exhibits subject-verb-object (SVO) word order.\n\nIn theory, Creole places its definite articles after the noun, unlike French. Given Louisiana Creole's complex linguistic relationship with Colonial French and Cajun French, however, this is often no longer the case. Since there is no system of noun gender, articles only vary on phonetic criteria. The article \"a\" is placed after words ending in a vowel, and \"la\" is placed after words ending in a consonant.\n\nAnother aspect of Louisiana Creole which is unlike French is the lack of verb conjugation. Verbs do not vary based on person or number. Verbs vary based on verbal markers (e.g., \"té\" (past tense), \"sé\" (conditional), \"sa\" or \"a[alé]\" (future)) which are placed between the personal pronouns and conjugated verbs (e.g. \"Mo té kourí ô Villaj\", \"I went to Lafayette\"). Frequently in the past tense, the verbal marker is omitted and one is left to figure out the time of the event through context.\n\nThe vocabulary of Louisiana Creole is of primarily of French origin, as French is the language's lexifier. Some local vocabulary, such as topography, animals, plants are of Amerindian origin. The language has a small number of vocabulary items from west and central African languages (namely Bambara, Wolof, Fon) in folklore and in the religion of Voodoo. Much of this non-French vocabulary is shared with other French-based creole languages of North America, and Louisiana Creole shares all but a handful of vocabulary with Louisiana French.\n\nIncluded are the French numbers for comparison.\nNouzòt Popá, ki dan syèl-la<br>\nTokin nom, li sinkifyè,<br>\nN'ap spéré pou to<br>\nrwayomm arivé, é n'a fé ça<br>\nt'olé dan syèl ; paréy si la tèr<br>\nDonné-nou jordi dipin tou-lé-jou,<br>\né pardon nouzòt péshé paréy nou pardon<br> \nlê moun ki fé nouzòt sikombé tentasyon-la,<br>\nMé délivré nou depi mal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27407168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27407168", "title": "Media &amp; Citizenship", "text": "Media &amp; Citizenship\n\nMedia & Citizenship Transnational Television Cultures Reshaping Political Identities in the European Union is a three year (2008–2011) research project funded by the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Commission.\n\nThis project studies the ways transnational media, in particular Arabic language television, reshape the political landscapes of citizenship in the European Union. It provides the first European wide empirical research on the use of Arabic-language television and its influence on integration in multicultural societies. After collecting data across 7 EU nations (Cyprus, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the UK), focus group studies explore how Arabic speakers themselves construct citizenship in the light of their media use, and their adopted national cultures.\n\nThe Media & Citizenship consortium is coordinated by the Utrecht University and consists of the University of Bielefeld, the London School of Economics, Örebro University and the Paris-Sorbonne University (Paris IV).\n\n"}
{"id": "21738874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21738874", "title": "Merke Turkic Sanctuaries", "text": "Merke Turkic Sanctuaries\n\nThe Turkic Sanctuaries of Merke are located in southern Kazakhstan, roughly 37 km south of present-day Merke in the Jambyl Province. At 3000 m high, the sanctuaries in this mountainous region of Kirghizki Alatau number more than 170 over nearly 250 km. The sites are well-preserved at the moment due to their isolation and relative difficulty of access. Each site may include small stelae (one to four), possibly representing the ancestors buried underneath.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on September 24, 1998 in the Mixed (Cultural & Natural) category.\n\n"}
{"id": "9338692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338692", "title": "Miracle at Philadelphia", "text": "Miracle at Philadelphia\n\nMiracle At Philadelphia: The Story of the Constitutional Convention is a work of historical non-fiction, written by Catherine Drinker Bowen and originally published in 1966. Bowen recounts the Philadelphia Convention, a meeting in 1787 that created the United States Constitution. Bowen draws much of her information from notes and journals of the Framers, especially James Madison. It contains vivid description of many founders including George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, George Mason, and Gouverneur Morris, important compromises such as the Great Compromise, and controversial issues such as slavery.\n\n"}
{"id": "45231832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45231832", "title": "Modern Greek studies", "text": "Modern Greek studies\n\nModern Greek studies () refers to an academic discipline of the humanities whose object is the linguistic, literary, cultural as well as geographical and folkloristic exploration and teaching of Greek in the world (Greece, Cyprus and the Greek diaspora) in the Modern Age and present time.\n"}
{"id": "47287689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47287689", "title": "North Sea Magical Realists", "text": "North Sea Magical Realists\n\nThe North Sea Magical Realists are a collective of artists resident on the North Sea coast whose art is loosely influenced by the aesthetics of Magical Realism. Its leading members include the artists Peter Rodulfo (b. 1958) and Mark Burrell (b. 1957). \n\nAware of each other's work for a number of years, Burrell and Rudolfo first met in New York USA, when exhibiting at the New York Expo of 1998.\n\nIn 2016 Burrell and Rodulfo elected Sir Thomas Browne as honorary 'Grand-father' of the movement, and simultaneously painted items found in Browne's Musaeum Clausum (section \"Rarities in Pictures\"); Rodulfo painting item number 3 in the medium of oils on canvas (157 x 143 cm) with a title of \"Dr. Browne goes Submarining\"; Burrell painting item 12 in the medium of alkyd resins on board (50 x 49 cm) with a title of \"Silent Presence\". \n\nIn November 2017 the North Sea Magical Realists held their first show at the Tripp Gallery, Amwell Street, London. Rodulfo and Burrell exhibited paintings, sculptures, etchings and included assemblages by group member Guy Richardson (b.1932)\n"}
{"id": "156007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156007", "title": "Prequel", "text": "Prequel\n\nA prequel is a literary, dramatic, or cinematic work whose story precedes that of a previous work, by focusing on events that occur before the original narrative. A prequel is a work that forms part of a backstory to the preceding work.\n\nAll \"prequels\" are, by definition, essentially sequels in that they \"expand on a \"previous\" or \"preceding\" work.\" The term is a 20th-century neologism that is a portmanteau of the prefix \"pre-\" (from Latin \"prae\", \"before\") and \"sequel\".\n\nLike other sequels, prequels may or may not concern the same plot as the work from which they are derived. Often, they explain the background which led to the events in the original, but sometimes the connections are not as explicit. Sometimes, prequels play on the audience's knowledge of what will happen next, using deliberate references to create dramatic irony.\n\nThough the word \"prequel\" is of recent origin, works fitting this concept existed long before. The \"Cypria\", presupposing hearers' acquaintance with the events of the Homeric epic, confined itself to what preceded the \"Iliad\", and thus formed a kind of introduction.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" the word \"prequel\" first appeared in print in 1958 in an article by Anthony Boucher in \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\", used to describe James Blish's 1956 story \"They Shall Have Stars,\" which expanded on the story introduced in his earlier 1955 work, \"Earthman Come Home\". The term came into general usage in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\n\"\" (1979) may have introduced the term \"prequel\" into the mainstream. The term has since been popularized by the \"Star Wars\" prequel trilogy (1999-2005).\n\nRather than being a concept distinct from that of a \"sequel\", a \"prequel\" still adheres to the general principle of serialization, defined only by its internal chronology and publication order. For example, \"\" (1999) is a prequel to \"Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi\" (1983) but is only a \"predecessor\" rather than a \"prequel\" of \"\" (2002) because of the release order. Likewise, 1984's \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\" is a prequel to 1981's \"Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark,\" in that it is set in 1935, one year before the first film.\n\nSometimes \"prequel\" describes followups where it is not always possible to apply a label defined solely in terms of intertextuality. In the case of \"The Godfather Part II\", the narrative combines elements of a prequel with those of a more generalized sequel by having two intercut narrative strands, one continuing from the first film (the mafia family story under the leadership of Michael Corleone), and one, completely separate, detailing events that precede it (the story of his father Vito Corleone in his youth). In this sense the film can be regarded as both a \"prequel and a sequel\" (i.e., both a prior and a continuing story), and is often referred to in this manner.\n\nIn the original \"Planet of the Apes\" series, even though the latter three films depict world events chronologically prior to those of the first two films, the narrative itself is continuous for the main characters, as three apes from the first two films go back in time. The later installments (\"Escape from...\", \"Conquest of...\", and \"Battle for...\") are sometimes called \"prequels\" in a broad sense of the word, but they are primarily sequels, as defined both broadly (as later installments) and narrowly (as continuation of the previously established storyline).\n\nIn recent times the term \"prequel\" has also been applied to origin-story reboots, such as \"Rise of the Planet of the Apes\", \"Batman Begins\", and \"Casino Royale\". The creators of both \"Batman Begins\" and \"Rise of the Planet of the Apes\" also stated their intent to dispense with the continuity of the previous films so they would exist as separate pieces of work, with Christopher Nolan—director of \"Batman Begins\"—explicitly stating he does not consider it a prequel. Here, \"prequel\" denotes status as a \"franchise-renewing original\" that depicts events earlier in the (internally inconsistent) narrative cycle than those of a previous installment. Most reviewers require that a prequel must lead up to the beginning of its original work, which is inconsistent with works that dispense with the narrative of previous work and are not significantly within the same continuity. At times, the term has been used to refer to a work that was released, as well as chronologically set, before any other work. However, that usage conflicts with the fact that a prequel is a type of sequel.\n\nThe 2009 film \"Star Trek\" features characters from the 1960s TV series \"\", but earlier in their careers. However, the film is set in an alternate timeline caused by a Romulan captain from the universe of the original series going back in time and interfering with history. Thus, the film has been described as simultaneously a prequel and a reboot.\n\n"}
{"id": "273285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273285", "title": "Race and ethnicity in the United States Census", "text": "Race and ethnicity in the United States Census\n\nRace and ethnicity in the United States Census, defined by the federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the United States Census Bureau, are self-identification data items in which residents choose the race or races with which they most closely identify, and indicate whether or not they are of Hispanic or Latino origin (the only categories for ethnicity).\n\nThe racial categories represent a social-political construct for the race or races that respondents consider themselves to be and, \"generally reflect a social definition of race recognized in this country.\" OMB defines the concept of race as outlined for the US Census as not \"scientific or anthropological\" and takes into account \"social and cultural characteristics as well as ancestry\", using \"appropriate scientific methodologies\" that are not \"primarily biological or genetic in reference.\" The race categories include both racial and national-origin groups.\n\nRace and ethnicity are considered separate and distinct identities, with Hispanic or Latino origin asked as a separate question. Thus, in addition to their race or races, all respondents are categorized by membership in one of two ethnic categories, which are \"Hispanic or Latino\" and \"Not Hispanic or Latino\". However, the practice of separating \"race\" and \"ethnicity\" as different categories has been criticized both by the American Anthropological Association and members of US Commission on Civil Rights.\n\nIn 1997, OMB issued a Federal Register notice regarding revisions to the standards for the classification of federal data on race and ethnicity. OMB developed race and ethnic standards in order to provide \"consistent data on race and ethnicity throughout the Federal Government. The development of the data standards stem in large measure from new responsibilities to enforce civil rights laws.\" Among the changes, OMB issued the instruction to \"mark one or more races\" after noting evidence of increasing numbers of interracial children and wanting to capture the diversity in a measurable way and having received requests by people who wanted to be able to acknowledge their or their children's full ancestry rather than identifying with only one group. Prior to this decision, the Census and other government data collections asked people to report only one race.\n\nThe OMB states, \"many federal programs are put into effect based on the race data obtained from the decennial census (i.e., promoting equal employment opportunities; assessing racial disparities in health and environmental risks). Race data are also critical for the basic research behind many policy decisions. States require these data to meet legislative redistricting requirements. The data are needed to monitor compliance with the Voting Rights Act by local jurisdictions\".\n\n\"Data on ethnic groups are important for putting into effect a number of federal statutes (i.e., enforcing bilingual election rules under the Voting Rights Act; monitoring and enforcing equal employment opportunities under the Civil Rights Act). Data on Ethnic Groups are also needed by local governments to run programs and meet legislative requirements (i.e., identifying segments of the population who may not be receiving medical services under the Public Health Act; evaluating whether financial institutions are meeting the credit needs of minority populations under the Community Reinvestment Act).\"\n\nIn 1790, first official year of the US Census, these questions were asked, four of which had racial implications:\n\nIn 1800 and 1810, the age question regarding free white males was more detailed.\n\nThe 1820 census built on the questions asked in 1810 by asking age questions about slaves. Also the term \"colored\" entered the census nomenclature. In addition, a question stating \"Number of foreigners not naturalized\" was included.\n\nIn the 1830 census, a new question which stated \"The number of White persons who were foreigners not naturalized\" was included.\n\nThe 1850 census saw a dramatic shift in the way information about residents was collected. For the first time, free persons were listed individually instead of by head of household. There were two questionnaires: one for free inhabitants and one for slaves.\nThe question on the free inhabitants schedule about color was a column that was to be left blank if a person was white, marked \"B\" if a person was black, and marked \"M\" if a person was mulatto.\nSlaves were listed by owner, and classified by gender and age, not individually, and the question about color was a column that was to be marked with a \"B\" if the slave was black and an \"M\" if mulatto.\n\nFor the 1870 census, the color/racial question was expanded to include \"C\" for Chinese, which was a category that included all east Asians, as well as \"I\" for American Indians.\n\nFor 1890, the Census Office changed the design of the population questionnaire. Residents were still listed individually, but a new questionnaire sheet was used for each family. Additionally, this was the first year that the census distinguished among different Asian ethnic groups, such as Japanese and Chinese, due to increased immigration. This census also marked the beginning of the term \"race\" in the questionnaires.\nEnumerators were instructed to write \"White,\" \"Black,\" \"Mulatto,\" \"Quadroon,\" \"Octoroon,\" \"Chinese,\" \"Japanese,\" or \"Indian.\"\n\nDuring 1900, the \"Color or Race\" question was slightly modified, removing the term \"Mulatto\". Also, there was an inclusion of an \"Indian Population Schedule\" in which \"enumerators were instructed to use a special expanded questionnaire for American Indians living on reservations or in family groups off of reservations.\" This expanded version included the question \"Fraction of person's lineage that is white.\"\n\nThe 1910 census was similar to that of 1900, but it included a reinsertion of \"Mulatto\" and a question about the respondent's \"mother tongue.\" \"Ot\" was also added to signify \"other races\", with space for a race to be written in. This decade's version of the Indian Population Schedule featured questions asking the individual's proportion of white, black, or American Indian lineage.\n\nThe 1920 census questionnaire was similar to 1910, but excluded a separate schedule for American Indians. \"Hin\", \"Kor\", and \"Fil\" were also added to the \"Color or Race\" question, signifying Hindustani (South Asia Indian), Korean, and Filipino, respectively.\n\nThe biggest change in this year's census was in racial classification. Enumerators were instructed to no longer use the \"Mulatto\" classification. Instead, they were given special instructions for reporting the race of interracial persons. A person with both white and black ancestry (termed \"blood\") was to be recorded as \"Negro,\" no matter the fraction of that lineage (the \"one-drop rule\"). A person of mixed black and American Indian ancestry was also to be recorded as \"Neg\" (for \"Negro\") unless he was considered to be \"predominantly\" American Indian and accepted as such within the community. A person with both White and American Indian ancestry was to be recorded as an Indian, unless his American Indian ancestry was small, and he was accepted as white within the community. In all situations in which a person had White and some other racial ancestry, he was to be reported as that other race. Persons who had minority interracial ancestry were to be reported as the race of their father.\n\nFor the first and only time, \"Mexican\" was listed as a race. Enumerators were instructed that all persons born in Mexico, or whose parents were born in Mexico, should be listed as Mexicans, and not under any other racial category. But, in prior censuses and in 1940, enumerators were instructed to list Mexican Americans as white, perhaps because some of them were of white background (mainly Spanish), many others mixed white and Native American and some of them Native American.\n\nThe Supplemental American Indian questionnaire was back, but in abbreviated form. It featured a question asking if the person was of full or mixed American Indian ancestry.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt promoted a \"good neighbor\" policy that sought better relations with Mexico. In 1935, a federal judge ruled that three Mexican immigrants were ineligible for citizenship because they were not white, as required by federal law. Mexico protested, and Roosevelt decided to circumvent the decision and make sure the federal government treated Hispanics as white. The State Department, the Census Bureau, the Labor Department, and other government agencies therefore made sure to uniformly classify people of Mexican descent as white. This policy encouraged the League of United Latin American Citizens in its quest to minimize discrimination by asserting their whiteness.\n\nThe 1940 census was the first to include separate population and housing questionnaires. The race category of \"Mexican\" was eliminated in 1940, and the population of Mexican descent was counted with the White population.\n\n1940 census data was used for Japanese American internment. The Census Bureau's role was denied for decades, but was finally proven in 2007.\n\nThe 1950 Census questionnaire removed the word \"color\" from the racial question, and also removed Hindu and Korean from the race choices.\n\nThe 1960 Census re-added the word \"color\" to the racial question, and changed \"Indian\" to \"American Indian\", as well as added Hawaiian, Part-Hawaiian, Aleut, and Eskimo. The Other (print out race) option was removed.\n\nThis year's census included \"Negro or Black\", re-added Korean and the Other race option. East Indians (the term used at that time for people whose ancestry is from the Indian subcontinent) were counted as White. There was a questionnaire that was asked of only a sample of respondents. These questions were as follows:\nThis year added several options to the race question, including Vietnamese, Indian (East), Guamanian, Samoan, and re-added Aleut. Again, the term \"color\" was removed from the racial question, and the following questions were asked of a sample of respondents:\nThe racial categories in this year are as they appear in the 2000 and 2010 Census. The following questions were asked of a sample of respondents for the 1990 Census:\n\nThe 1990 Census was not designed to capture multiple racial responses, and when individuals marked the Other race option and provided a multiple write in, the response was assigned according to the race written first. \"For example, a write in of \"Black-White\" was assigned a code of Black, a write in of \"White-Black\" was assigned a code of White.\"\n\n\"In the United States, census data indicate that the number of children in interracial families grew from less than one half million in 1970 to about two million in 1990. In 1990, for interracial families with one white American partner, the other parent...was Asian American for 45 percent...\"\n\nRace was asked differently in the Census 2000 in several other ways than previously. Most significantly, respondents were given the option of selecting one or more race categories to indicate racial identities. Data show that nearly seven million Americans identified as members of two or more races. Because of these changes, the Census 2000 data on race are not directly comparable with data from the 1990 census or earlier censuses. Use of caution is therefore recommended when interpreting changes in the racial composition of the US population over time.\n\nThe following definitions apply to the 2000 census only.\n\n\n\nThe federal government of the United States has mandated that \"in data collection and presentation, federal agencies are required to use a minimum of two ethnicities: \"Hispanic or Latino\" and \"Not Hispanic or Latino\". The Census Bureau defines \"Hispanic or Latino\" as \"a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American or other Spanish culture or origin regardless of race.\" For discussion of the meaning and scope of the Hispanic or Latino ethnicity, see the Hispanic and Latino Americans and Racial and ethnic demographics of the United States articles.\n\nUse of the word \"ethnicity\" for Hispanics only is considerably more restricted than its conventional meaning, which covers other distinctions, some of which are covered by the \"race\" and \"ancestry\" questions. The distinct questions accommodate the possibility of Hispanic and Latino Americans' also declaring various racial identities (see also White Hispanic and Latino Americans, Asian Latinos, and Black Hispanic and Latino Americans).\n\nIn the 2000 Census, 12.5% of the US population reported \"Hispanic or Latino\" ethnicity and 87.5% reported \"Not-Hispanic or Latino\" ethnicity.\n\nThe 2010 US Census included changes designed to more clearly distinguish Hispanic ethnicity as not being a race. That included adding the sentence: \"For this census, Hispanic origins are not races.\" Additionally, the Hispanic terms were modified from \"Hispanic or Latino\" to \"Hispanic, Latino or Spanish origin\".\n\nAlthough used in the Census and the American Community Survey, \"Some other race\" is not an official race, and the Bureau considered eliminating it prior to the 2000 Census. As the 2010 census form did not contain the question titled \"Ancestry\" found in prior censuses, there were campaigns to get non-Hispanic West Indian Americans, Turkish Americans, Armenian Americans, Arab Americans and Iranian Americans to indicate their ethnic or national background through the race question, specifically the \"Some other race\" category.\n\nThe Interagency Committee has suggested that the concept of marking multiple boxes be extended to the Hispanic origin question, thereby freeing individuals from having to choose between their parents' ethnic heritages. In other words, a respondent could choose both \"Hispanic or Latino\" and \"Not Hispanic or Latino\".\n\nThe Census Bureau warns that data on race in 2000 Census are not directly comparable to those collected in previous censuses. Many residents of the United States consider race and ethnicity to be the same.\n\nIn the 2000 Census, respondents were tallied in each of the race groups they reported. Consequently, the total of each racial category exceeds the total population because some people reported more than one race.\n\nAccording to James P. Allen and Eugene Turner from California State University, Northridge, by some calculations in the 2000 Census the largest part white biracial population is white/Native American and Alaskan Native, at 7,015,017, followed by white/black at 737,492, then white/Asian at 727,197, and finally white/Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander at 125,628.\n\nThe Census Bureau implemented a Census Quality Survey, gathering data from about 50,000 households to assess the reporting of race and Hispanic origin in the 2000 Census with the purpose of creating a way to make comparisons between the 2000 Census with previous Census racial data.\n\nIn September 1997, during the process of revision of racial categories previously declared by OMB directive no. 15, the American Anthropological Association (AAA) recommended that OMB combine the \"race\" and \"ethnicity\" categories into one question to appear as \"race/ethnicity\" for the 2000 US Census. The Interagency Committee agreed, stating that \"race\" and \"ethnicity\" were not sufficiently defined and \"that many respondents conceptualize 'race' and 'ethnicity' as one in the same underscor[ing] the need to consolidate these terms into one category, using a term that is more meaningful to the American people.\"\n\nThe AAA also stated,\nThe recommendations of the AAA were not adopted by the Census Bureau for the 2000 or the 2010 Censuses.\n\nIn 2001, the National Institutes of Health adopted the new language to comply with the revisions to Directive 15, as did the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission of the United States Department of Labor in 2007. See Race and ethnicity (EEO).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12550241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12550241", "title": "Rag painting", "text": "Rag painting\n\nRag painting or ragging is a form of faux painting using paint thinned out with glaze and old rags to create a lively texture on walls and other surfaces. \n\nRagging can be done as a negative or positive technique. The former involves rolling glaze over the entire surface, and removing it with clean rags to reveal the underlying paint color in a pleasing textural pattern. The latter is accomplished by applying glaze directly to the wall with a rag, and creates a similar pattern. Ragging is a very adaptable finish that can be used in a variety of areas, creating the illusion of an old world texture, but on a flat surface that can be easily painted over.\n\nRagging can be done in a variety of patterns, including rag rolling, in which the rags are twisted together and then rolled over a wet glazed surface creating the illusion of fabrics such a velvet or silk. Ragging is also often used as a pattern underneath stenciling.\n\n"}
{"id": "21685929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21685929", "title": "Relación de las cosas de Yucatán", "text": "Relación de las cosas de Yucatán\n\nRelación de las cosas de Yucatán was written by Diego de Landa around 1566, shortly after his return from Yucatán to Spain. In it, de Landa catalogues Mayan words and phrases as well as a small number of Mayan hieroglyphs. The hieroglyphs, sometimes referred to as the de Landa alphabet, proved vital to modern attempts to decipher the script. The book also includes documentation of Maya religion and the Mayan peoples' culture in general. It was written with the help of local Maya princes. It contains, at the end of a long list of Spanish words with Maya translations, a Maya phrase, famously found to mean \"I do not want to.\" The original manuscript has been lost, but many copies still survive.\n\nThe first published edition was produced by Charles Etienne Brasseur de Boubourg in 1864 under the title \"Relation des choses de Yucatan de Diego de Landa. Texte espagnol et traduction française en regard comprenant les signes du calendrier et de l’alphabet hiéroglyphique de la langue maya accompagné de documents divers historiques et chronologiques, avec un grammaire et un vocabulaire abrégés français-maya précédés d’un Essai sur les sources de l’histoire primitive du Mexique et de l’Amérique centrale, Etc., d’après les monuments égyptiens et de l’histoire primitive de l’Égypte d’après les monuments américains\". Colonialist scholar John Woodruff has suggested that one passage in particular stands out as the principal basis for the belief that late post-classic Maya had numerous written books:\n\nCurrently-available English translations include William E. Gates's 1937 translation, has been published by multiple publishing houses, under the title \"Yucatan Before and After the Conquest: The Maya\". Alfred Tozzer of Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology has also published a translation of the work from the Cambridge University Press in 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50610026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50610026", "title": "Richa Nagar", "text": "Richa Nagar\n\nRicha Nagar (born 1968, in Lucknow, India) is a scholar, creative writer, educator, and theatre-worker who is Professor of the College in the College of Liberal Arts at the University of Minnesota. Nagar's creative and scholarly work makes multi-lingual and multi-genre contributions to transnational feminism, social geography, critical development studies, and critical ethnography. Her research has encompassed a range of topics including: politics of space, identity and community among communities of South Asian origin in Tanzania; questions of empowerment in relation to grass-roots struggles in the global South, principally with the Sangtin Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (SKMS) in Sitapur District, India; the politics of language and social fracturing in the context of development and neo-liberal globalization; and creative praxis that uses collaboration, co-authorship, and translation to blur the borders between academic, activist, and artistic labor. She has held residential fellowships at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (CASBS) at Stanford in 2005-2006, at the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Advanced Study (JNIAS) at New Delhi in 2011-2012, and at the Centre for Humanities Research at the University of the Western Cape in 2013. She was named Honorary Professor at the Unit for Humanities at the Rhodes University (UHURU) at Rhodes University in South Africa in 2017, and her work has been translated into several languages including Turkish, Marathi, Italian, German and Mandarin.\n\nRicha Nagar's historical, geographical, and feminist exploration of the politics of place, identity, and community among 'Asians' in Tanzania is based on a \"large number of life histories as well as participant observation\" among Hindus, Khoja Shia Ithna Asheris, Goans and Sikhs, chiefly in the city of Dar es Salaam. This body of work is \"significant for its geographical focus\" and \"provides a useful and very necessary corrective to the misperceptions\" that \"construct[ed] all Asians as a monolithic category.\" It highlights how \"processes at multiple scales intersect and shape the negotiation of geographic and social space among different diasporic South Asian groups in their neighborhoods\" while also \"explor[ing] many relevant dimensions of the researcher-narrator relationship...[Nagar attends] to the processes involved in navigating within and across Dar's many Asian and African communities, with their particular spaces, boundaries, markers of identity, and hierarchies of power.\"\n\nIn 2004, Nagar published with eight rural women activists or Sangtins, the Hindi book, \"Sangtin Yatra\" which refers to a \"journey of solidarity, reciprocity, and enduring friendship.\" The eight activists—Anupamlata, Ramsheela, Reshma Ansari, Richa Singh, Shashibala, Shashi Vaish, Surbala, and Vibha Bajpayee—collaborated with Richa Nagar to explore questions of power, location, and difference in their own lives through personal storytelling, while also engaging with issues of inequity and discrimination in NGOs that seek to empower poor rural women in the global south. This discussion of NGOs triggered a backlash against the authors, which is examined in the English version of the book, \"Playing with Fire: Feminist Thought and Activism Through Seven Lives in India\" (2006). Playing with Fire \"challenges academic protocol and activist verities alike\" and \"grapples with creative solutions, such as upending hierarchies of skill and knowledge in organizations, as well as means to fight organizational dependency on donors...Every chapter makes for fascinating reading as the women emerge in their complexity, in their specificity, and in their international context that still includes outside donors driven by their own interests.\" The book \"asks us to think in radically new ways about responsibility, access, research, agency, authorship, subjects, and audience. It contributes to the vibrant discourse on the politics of research particularly between the 'north' and 'south' [and] pushes at the boundaries of this discourse as it demonstrates different ways of engaging in collaborative work that challenges the separation between 'the academy' and 'political organizing'.\"\nThe debates triggered by \"Sangtin Yatra\" and \"Playing with Fire\" helped to build Sangtin Kisaan Mazdoor Sangathan or the Sangtin Farmers and Laborers Organization (SKMS) in the Mishrikh and Pisawan blocks of Sitapur District of Uttar Pradesh.. Nagar's book with Richa Singh in Hindi, \"Ek Aur Neemsaar: Sangtin Atmamanthan Aur Andolan\" (2012) tells the story of the birth and growth of SKMS. \"Playing with Fire\" and \"Sangtin Yatra\" have been translated into Turkish as \"Ateşle Oynamak: Hindistan'da Yedi Yaşam Üzerinden Feminist Düşünce ve Eylem\" (Ayizi Kitap, 2011) and into Marathi as \"Ageeshee Khelataana: Saat Stree Karyakartancha Sahpravaas\" (Manovikas Prakashan, 2015).\n\nIn \"Muddying the Waters: Coauthoring Feminisms Across Scholarship and Activism\" (2014), which received Gloria Anzaldua Book Prize's Honorable Mention, Richa Nagar examines coauthorship as a mode of sharing authority and addresses translation as ethical responsibility. The book \"emerges out of the difficulties and (im)possibilities encountered in the creation of politically meaningful scholarship that inevitably crosses multiple borders. Those between academia and social movements, academic and nonacademic writing, or geographical and linguistic borders...Nagar's work is a call for politically engaged and ethical research that takes matters of epistemic violence seriously. For the author, such research cannot shy away from the tensions, risks and challenges involved in the building of solidarities and alliances between researchers and the researched 'on the ground.' These 'situated solidarities' are achievable when activists and scholars speak with each other to become 'radically vulnerable' through trust, affect and critical reflexivity without losing sight of their institutional, material and geopolitical positions.\". Here, Nagar also introduces the concept of 'radical vulnerability' as a critical mode of collectivity in politically-engaged alliance-work—an idea that she and her critics have continued to explore further.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56921553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56921553", "title": "Russian Journal of Communication", "text": "Russian Journal of Communication\n\nThe Russian Journal of Communication is an English-language, scholarly, peer-reviewed journal which covers topics related to journalism, public relations, film, and political communications in or involving Russia. Published by Taylor & Francis, it is indexed in Scopus. Its editor is Igor Klyukanov of Eastern Washington University and the journal is sponsored by the Russian Communication Association.\n"}
{"id": "3572145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3572145", "title": "Saint-Acheul", "text": "Saint-Acheul\n\nSaint-Acheul is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France. It is not to be confused with Saint-Acheul, a suburb of Amiens after which the Acheulean archaeological culture of the Lower Paleolithic is named.\n\nThe commune is situated some north of Amiens, on the junction of the D933 and D99e roads, only a few hundred yards from the border with the Pas-de-Calais\n\nIn the first century AD the Romans settled the area and a monastery was built in St Acheul during the Middle Ages. Saint Ulphia was a hermit here during the 8th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56987640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56987640", "title": "Saint Luke (Giambologna)", "text": "Saint Luke (Giambologna)\n\nSaint Luke is a 2.73 m high bronze statue of Luke the Evangelist by Giambologna, commissioned by the Arte dei Giudici e Notai and completed in 1597-1602. One of a cycle of fourteen commissioned by the guilds of Florence for the external niches of Orsanmichele, it is now in the Museo di Orsanmichele, although a replica fills its original niche. \n\n"}
{"id": "3329050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3329050", "title": "Star Schools Program", "text": "Star Schools Program\n\nThe Star Schools Program is a United States government program created to honor schools. Established by the United States Department of Education, the purpose of this program is to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3174485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174485", "title": "Term Catalogue", "text": "Term Catalogue\n\nA Term Catalogue, German Messkatalog, is a serial publication compiled to inform customers—most importantly book traders from other cities—of the book production as available on the book fairs. The first such catalogue was issued by Georg Willer in Augsburg in 1564. Several projects followed the model including the series of English Term Catalogues issued by John Starkey and Robert Clavell under the title \"Mercurius Librarius, or, a catalogue of books\" from 1668 to 1711. \"Term\" referred to the dates of the fairs that would be held as platforms of the trade. \n\nThe catalogues are a valuable source to researchers today, because they often give dates of the publication processes and information about working titles that were eventually dropped. The segmentation is of interest for its contemporary perspective on the market: a perspective modern literary histories no longer share.\n\nThe book trade of the German-speaking territories was for more than a century the model of all further European developments. The technological achievement of the printing press spread in Germany without the focus on a capital. Germany had cultural centre but a network of cities and territories in different affiliations. A fragmented decentralised geographical space had to be provided with books. Relatively small towns of 20.000 to 40.000 inhabitants created as early as the 1470s and 1480s the basic network of the new trade. Central fairs in Nördlingen, Frankfurt and Leipzig offered publishers from all over Germany, Austria and Switzerland in the course of the 16th century the option to change books they had published and thus to widen the scope of titles they could sell in their respective shops at home.\n\nThe first Term Catalogue published by Georg Willer in Augsburg in 1564 was supposed to inform his customers in Augsburg about books he had brought home from the last Frankfurt fair. Within the next two years his catalogue became an interesting platform Frankfurt traders would use to observe the market. Willer arranged to have his catalogue printed in Frankfurt where it soon turned from a retrospective into a prospective medium, into a catalogue issued to list all the books that would be offered on the upcoming fair.\n\nHis first catalogue showed a strong Latin production. Almost 73% percent of the titles he listed were published in the language of erudition. Most of the books fell into the theology sections. The four university faculties theology, law, medicine and - embracing all other subjects - philosophy set the catalogue's basic structure. Literature in the modern sense had no category of its own. \n\nWiller's project attracted competitors, three of whom gained the power to challenge his project at the turn into the 17th century: An independent catholic platform appeared first in Mainz and then in Frankfurt. The city of Frankfurt began to promote a \"privileged\" imperial catalogue trying to use the catalogues as a platform of censorship. The 1590 saw, thirdly, the arrival of a new catalogue designed to serve the Frankfurt and Leipzig book fairs - published from 1594 to 1860 in Leipzig.\n\nThe Leipzig fairs won the competition in the course of the 17th century. The unified catalogue issued in Leipzig became the central platform of information about books published in the course of this competition.\n\nCatalogues had their own history on the English market long before the series initiated by John Starkey in 1668. Germany's catalogues had served as a model of a series of continental catalogues published by John Bill between 1617 and 1628. Bill's catalogues appeared twice a year as a digest of the Frankfurt Messkatalog. Between 1622 and 1626 it included supplements designed to add the English production. \n\nThe project of an independent conclusive English catalogue began, however, only in 1668 with Starkey's catalogues soon co-edited and then taken over by Robert Clavell. Clavell died on 8 August 1711. His death seems to have terminated the series. The publication had already become unstable in 1708 and 1709. A new catalogue appeared in 1711 under Clavell's mentorship after a gap of more than a year but it remained without a successor. \n\nThe usual rhythm of editions yielded four catalogues per year with issues sold at:\nThe entire collection consists today of 161 catalogues. Some years have not reached the full number of four catalogues. The last catalogues printed in 1708 and 1709 were double editions covering two terms. 1670 saw two rival editions for both Easter and Trinity to mend a perceived deficiency in the official Starkey and Clavell catalogues. London's booksellers complained that their project had focused on publications that sold for more than a shilling, and that it lacked diligence. The complaint reveals that Starkey and Clavell were paid for each title they listed:\nThe Publishers of \"Mercurius Librarius,\" by their unreasonable demands for inserting the titles of Books; and also their imperfect Collecting; omitting many; and refusing all under 1sh[illing] [in] Price; hath occasioned the Printing of this Catalogue: wherein those defects are rectified.\nCollected by, and printed for, the Booksellers of \"London\".\nA comparison of the numbers of titles listed in the late 17th and early 18th century term catalogues and numbers the English Short Title Catalogue provides justification for these complaints.\n\nThe 161 catalogues printed between 1668 and 1711 show an increase in the number of titles. The average catalogue listed 109 books under 10 headings. Some catalogues had up to 13 headings; the minimum was six in the small catalogue that appeared for Hillary 1708. The first catalogues had begun with 40 to 50 titles; later catalogues reached 150 to 200 titles. The Easter catalogue of 1689 listed the exceptional number of 293 books.\n\nAll catalogues opened with a Divinity section and closed with a section of books reprinted. Most of the catalogues offered additional advertisements at the end to announce ongoing projects looking for subscribers and sponsors. The sequence of categories in between varied. History was most often the second heading, Miscellanies usually the one before the Reprinted section. Other prominent headings were Physick (medicine), Mathematicks (comprising Architecture and Navigation in several of the catalogues), Poetry and Plays, Musick, Navigation, Globes, Maps, Cards, Charts, Plates (in the sense of illustrations), Law, Libri Latini (& François), Headings such as Architecture, Heraldry and Astrology remained rare.\n\nNone of the catalogues offered a unified section for fiction, or for literature in the modern sense. Novels were customarily listed among the \"Histories\"—the majority of which were non-fictional—and sometimes as \"Miscellanies\". The category \"Poetry and Plays\" was reserved for verse and stage plays.\n\nThe following table looks at all titles under the eleven most prominent headings, with a perspective on the decades and the overall trends:\nA comparison with modern ESTC data proves that the \"Term Catalogues\" remained highly selective. The ESTC lists between more than 13,000 and almost 23,000 titles for the individual decades. The \"Term Catalogue\" numbers range at 20%-30% of that. Catalogues of the 1690s had the greatest average numbers of titles, but ESTC data imply that the 1690s actually saw a slight drop in total title numbers. The distortions are partly the result of the project's instability in 1708 and 1709. They reflect, in part, the continuous neglect of ephemeral publications such as short political pamphlets. \n\nThe series ended in 1708 and 1709 with double editions. The remaining catalogue for Easter 1711 began with a new number 1 issue, and remains remarkable with its attempt to establish a new structure. The long category of reprinted books was split and brought under the respective headings of the new major categories: 1) Divinity, 2) History & Politicks, 3) Mathematical Sciences, 4) Physick & Natural Philosophy, 5) Philology, and 6) Poetry. The new arrangement confirmed the position of the two categories of religious and political publications. \"History and Politikcs\" stresses the interest in ongoing—religio-political—debates. 1711 is still marked by the Sacheverell affair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8321164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8321164", "title": "The Analysis of Beauty", "text": "The Analysis of Beauty\n\nThe Analysis of Beauty is a book written by the 18th-century artist and writer William Hogarth, published in 1753, which describes Hogarth's theories of visual beauty and grace in a manner accessible to the common man of his day.\n\nProminent among Hogarth's ideas of beauty was the theory of the Line of Beauty; an S-shaped (serpentine) curved line that excited the attention of the viewer and evoked liveliness and movement. \"The Analysis of Beauty\" formed the intellectual centrepiece of what the historian Ernst Gombrich described as Hogarth's \"grim campaign against fashionable taste\", which Hogarth himself described as his \"War with the Connoisseurs\".\n\nIn \"The Analysis of Beauty\" Hogarth implements six principles that independently affect beauty. Although he concurs that those principles have an effect, he is not determinate on their specific influence. The first principle of beauty Hogarth describes is fitness, which is not in itself a source of beauty, but can be described as a material cause of it. Though the account of fitness on the total beauty of an object is only moderate, it is a necessary cause. Fitness does not necessarily imply purpose. However, improperly implied forms cannot be the source of beauty. It is in this that the necessity of fitness must be seen: if not accounted for, a form cannot readily be assumed beautiful.\n\nThe second major principle of beauty is variety. It is the source of beauty, which Hogarth shows us by the contrary notion of \"sameness\": \"sameness\", a lack of variety, offends the senses. \"The ear is as much offended with one even continued note, as the eye is with being fix'd to a point, or to the view of a dead wall.\" In contrast, our senses find relief in discovering a certain amount of \"sameness\" within a varietal experience.\n\nThe third notion of regularity is understood as a form of \"composed variety\": it only pleases us when it is suggestive to fitness. Similar to this notion in effect is simplicity, which enhances the pleasure of variety in that it pleases the eye. The variety which causes a beautiful experience should, so to speak, be tempered by simplicity. On the other hand: simplicity without variety at best does only not displease.\n\nIntricacy is a strange principle in that it does not directly follow from the formal behaviour of a beautiful object. Hogarth means by this the habit which causes us to end up in the whirling game of pursuit, when bit by bit discovering the beauty of an object. Intricacy arises from the love of this pursuit. Every difficulty in understanding or grasping the object enhances the pleasure of overcoming it, to continue the pursuit. There is a direct connection here to the Line of Beauty Hogarth dictates, along which every image is built up. Though the movement of our eye is discrete in itself, the movement of our \"Mind's eye\" follows a duplicate course of the line, a principal ray of light moving along with the line of sight. The continuous movement of our \"Mind's eye\" triggers the notion of intricacy.\n\nQuantity, finally, is associated with the notion of the sublime, which, when Hogarth's book appeared, was not yet entirely distinguished from the apprehension of beauty. Hogarth thus does not speak of sublimity, but of greatness. He recognises a great quantity to have an aesthetic effect on the beholder without the necessity of a varietal or fitting form. This should not be exaggerated, as that might lead to absurdities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54110978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54110978", "title": "The Meaning of the City", "text": "The Meaning of the City\n\nThe Meaning of the City is a theological essay by Jacques Ellul which recounts the story of the city in the Bible and seeks to explain the city's biblical significance.\n\nEllul wrote the book in 1951; it was published in English translation in 1970, and then in French in 1975 as \"Sans feu ni lieu : Signification biblique de la Grande Ville\".\n\nWhere is the city's foundation? All mythologies speak of an original garden, returning to which is man's only desire. The city is the world of man: his creation (made in his image) and his pride because it reflects his culture and his civilization. It is also a place of absurdity, of chaos, and of man's power over Nature and man, a place of slavery par excellence. Ellul recounts, through the course of the Bible, the city's origins. God places man in a garden because this is his natural place, the place to which he is best adapted. But man wished to separate from God and determine his own destiny. All mythologies herald man's return to nature, a return to the original state. Inversely, the Bible anticipates a perfect city, the New Jerusalem. \"This shows that, out of love, God revises his own plans, taking into account the history of men, including their maddest revolts.\" Thus, from Genesis to Revelation, Ellul brings to life the rhythm of the city and unmasks the illusions thence attached, navigating within the Christian dialectic between the fall of man and redemption in order to give meaning to the present situation of people, who depend on the big city for everything they do.\n\nEllul gives an exegesis of the city in the Bible. This is not a formalist or structuralist exegesis, but a traditional exegesis, which is to say it seeks to present the text as it appears today and in its entirety. This means that the author, here, seeks within the Bible all passages which relate to the city, as the basis for a biblical definition of this place. If the author \"hears\" the more sophisticated meanings given by his contemporaries, he nevertheless considers that one \"cannot honestly interpret a text outside its content and the meaning which it gives itself\". He therefore refuses to divide the text into independent fragments, instead taking them in their entirely; he considers the text to be essentially dialectical, implying that its meaning arises within an ensemble of contradictory statements. So doing, Ellul does not seek to explain why the Bible says what it says on the subject of cities, but to show what it says.\n\nIt is within the framework of his critique of technique (see \"The Technological Society\") that Ellul approaches the city. In effect, according to him, the city is the place where technique becomes system, preventing man from living in freedom. And according to Ellul, this freedom arises in work within proximity to God, and later in the perfect example of Jesus Christ. Thus, \"if one follows Ellul, humanity's freedom of choice seems singularly limited: return to the path of the Christian God or accept the dissolution of humanity. Strictly speaking this conception of liberty is a negation of autonomy, is a heteronomy. Facing this dilemma to which Ellul condemns us, how can we raise a challenge, how can we find a truly autonomous liberty, which is to say find its true characteristics and true limits?\". This remark, published in the \"Revue du MAUSS\", critiques Ellul's theistic thrust, but also shows the extent to which man wants to live without God, considering that true liberty cannot exist in relation to a creator.\n\nThe city is precisely the place created by man. It is the affirmation of man taking his life into his own hands, independently of God; it is the expression of man's rebellion against God. God has placed man at the garden, a place adapted to him. But man refuses the life for which God has destined him, which is unsettled, and men have gathered and organized themselves in order to depend no longer on nature. This political project (see Ellul 1965, \"L'Illusion politique\"), the management of the metropolis, underlies the city: security, survival, commerce, collective living... But this city, created to strengthen human solidarity and protect man against natural aggressions, becomes the place to isolation and insecurity. \"Divine or celestial, the city reflects with the space of European culture a religious ideal of 'collective life', on which converge all the major issues of future society. The eater of men and the producer of social regulations, of power conflicts and culture shocks.\" The history of cities is the history of religions cross and interlocking, and of the Christian experience of this relationship, principally in relation to the urban conquest through which religion expanded itself. Since the 1960s, thinkers have raised the question of the \"Secular City\", and the city has become a \"theological issue\". In any case, the urban project, which diverts man from God, will at the last be judged severely.\n\nThe city is also the location of spiritual conflict. It therefore bears a profound meaning, a spiritual mark, which is the sign of malediction, and the founder of the city is cursed among all. \"It is through slavery that Israel is linked to the city.\" All the cities, within the Bible, are cursed, and \"never a word of hope, never a word of pardon for the city, for it is a terrible manifestation of the brilliant morning star, which has debased humanity.\" This malediction explains all the difficulties, all the problems encountered in cities, and however much one may seek solutions (security, urbanism, isolation), man will never make the city anything but that which it is. Here, one can detect the influence of Ellul's good friend Bernard Charbonneau. \"Ellul was constantly recognizing his debt to Charbonneau\", said pastor and theologian Jean-Sébastien Ingrand, director of the Strausbourg Protestant Media Library. Together they published \"Outline of a personalist manifesto\", in which they denounced, among other things, the city as contrary to liberty. \"The man of the city is rich in money but poor in space and time\", they wrote. \"The city is a place of inhumanity, especially the \"banlieue\", a banal and homogeneous space, the exact opposite of the country. The city is a place of artifice, where nature is vanquished. But note: one must not romanticize nature, which is perfectly capable of defending itself alone. It is man who is fragile, and above all his liberty. Bernard Charbonneau with \"Le jardin de Babylone\" (1969) and Jacques Ellul with Jacques Ellul, \"Sans feu, ni lieu\" (1975), rediscovered this point.\n\nThe city has grown to the size foretold by Ellul and Charbonneau, who were witnessing the urbanization of the world, the universalization of technique, and the standardization of all civilizations. Indeed, in 2008, the world's urban population surpassed its rural population. Where Charbonneau applied the symbol of Babylon, Ellul focuses on Ninevah. The big city is a mass which cannot survive without sacrificing liberty. \"This, then, is what separates the two men: against the catastrophism of Charbonneau, Ellul presents a Christian hope, which leads from the Garden of Eden to the New Jerusalem foretold in Revelations.\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3203300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3203300", "title": "Tone terracing", "text": "Tone terracing\n\nTone terracing is a type of phonetic downdrift, where the high or mid tones, but not the low tone, shift downward in pitch (downstep) after certain other tones. The result is that a tone may be realized at a certain pitch over a short stretch of speech, shifts downward and then continues at its new level, then shifts downward again, until the end of the prosodic contour is reached, at which point the pitch resets. A graph of the change in pitch over time of a particular tone resembles a terrace.\n\nSince the pitch of the low tone remains more-or-less constant at the lower end of the speaker's vocal range, while the other tones shift downward, the difference in their pitches narrows, eventually obscuring the tones altogether. At this point pitch reset is required if the tone system is to continue functioning.\n\nTone terracing is particularly common in the languages of West Africa, where typically only the low tone causes downstep. However, a somewhat more intricate system is found in the Twi language of Ghana. Twi has three phonemic tones: high, mid, and low. A word, and therefore a prosodic chunk of speech, may only start with a high tone or a low tone on its first syllable. As in many languages, a low tone starts out and remains at the bottom of the speaker's range. After a low tone, a subsequent high tone is downstepped. (A temporary exception occurs when a single low tone is found between two high tones. In this case the low tone is raised from its base value, but the second high tone is still downstepped, and subsequent low tones return to the base pitch.)\n\nHowever, a phonetic downstep occurs between any two adjacent mid tones as well. In fact, a high tone is defined as any tone that is at the same pitch as a preceding high \"or mid\" tone; a mid tone will always be lower in pitch than a preceding high or mid tone. The result is that every instance of a mid or low tone shifts the upper end of the pitch range downward, until all pitches are reset at the end of the prosodic melody.\n\n\"Table 1. The phonetic terracing effect in Twi of a series of mid tones. (Twi constrains the first tone to be either high or low.)\"\n\n\"Table 2. The phonetic terracing effect in Twi of an alternating series of high and mid tones.\"\n\n\"Table 3. The phonetic terracing effect in Twi of an alternating series of high and low tones.\"\n\nFrom tables 2 and 3 it can be imagined that the tone sequences \"high-low-high\" and \"high-mid-high\" may be difficult for a non-native speaker to distinguish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281458", "title": "Transparency (linguistic)", "text": "Transparency (linguistic)\n\nLinguistic transparency is a phrase which is used in multiple, overlapping subjects in the fields of linguistics and the philosophy of language. It has both normative and descriptive senses.\n\nNormatively, the phrase may describe the effort to suit one's rhetoric to the widest possible audience, without losing relevant information in the process. \n\nAdvocates of normative linguistic transparency often argue that linguistic opacity is dangerous to a democracy. These critics point out that jargon is deliberately employed in government and business. It encrypts morally suspect information in order to dull reaction to it: for example, the phrase \"collateral damage\" to refer to the manslaughter of innocents.\n\nOne play upon this view was by William Strunk, Jr. and E. B. White, who in the \"Elements of Style\" ruled that the writer ought to \"eschew obfuscation\".\n\nThe Plain Language Movement is an example of people who advocate using clearer, common language within the wider academic community.\n\nProfessor at New York University Alan Sokal, perpetrator of the Sokal hoax, is another noteworthy example of an advocate of linguistic transparency.\n\nWriter and political philosopher George Orwell was a proponent of this view, which he captured in the landmark essay, \"Politics and the English Language.\" Orwell wrote a novel, \"1984\", about a dystopian future controlled through a politically crafted language called \"Newspeak.\" Newspeak is a language that is linguistically transparent in the descriptive sense, but not in the normative one.\n\nComedian George Carlin has famously parodied the phenomenon in his stand-up comedy.\n\nThe approach may sound like common sense, but it faces the difficulty of figuring out how to communicate complex and uncommon ideas in a popular way.\n\nSemantic transparency is a descriptive phrase that has been used in linguistics to describe endocentric compounds. Endocentric compound words are those whose whole meaning can be figured out by an analysis of its parts or \"morphemes\". An example of an endocentric compound is the word \"car-wash\". By contrast, some compound words are exocentric, meaning their whole meaning cannot be established by an analysis of parts; for example, the word \"hogwash\". Exocentric words are also known as semantically opaque.\n\n"}
{"id": "51174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51174", "title": "Uncle Tom", "text": "Uncle Tom\n\nUncle Tom is the title character of Harriet Beecher Stowe's 1852 novel, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". The term \"Uncle Tom\" is also used as a derogatory epithet for an exceedingly subservient person, particularly when that person is aware of their own lower-class status based on race. The use of the epithet is the result of later works derived from the original novel. \n\nAt the time of the novel's initial publication in 1851, Uncle Tom was a rejection of the existing stereotypes of minstrel shows; Stowe's melodramatic story humanized the suffering of slavery for white audiences by portraying Tom as a Jesus-like figure who is ultimately martyred, beaten to death by a cruel master because he refuses to betray the whereabouts of two women who had escaped from slavery. Stowe reversed the gender conventions of slave narratives by juxtaposing Uncle Tom's passivity against the daring of three African American women who escape from slavery.\n\nThe novel was both influential and commercially successful, published as a serial from 1851 to 1852 and as a book from 1852 onward. An estimated 500,000 copies had sold worldwide by 1853, including unauthorized reprints. Senator Charles Sumner credited \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" for the election of Abraham Lincoln, an opinion that is later echoed in the apocryphal story of Lincoln greeting Stowe with the quip \"So you're the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war!\" (see American Civil War) Frederick Douglass praised the novel as \"a flash to light a million camp fires in front of the embattled hosts of slavery\". Despite Douglass's enthusiasm, an anonymous 1852 reviewer for William Lloyd Garrison's publication \"The Liberator\" suspected a racial double standard in the idealization of Uncle Tom:\n\nUncle Tom's character is sketched with great power and rare religious perception. It triumphantly exemplifies the nature, tendency, and results of Christian non-resistance. We are curious to know whether Mrs. Stowe is a believer in the duty of non-resistance for the White man, under all possible outrage and peril, as for the Black man… [For whites in parallel circumstances, it is often said] Talk not of overcoming evil with good—it is madness! Talk not of peacefully submitting to chains and stripes—it is base servility! Talk not of servants being obedient to their masters—let the blood of tyrants flow! How is this to be explained or reconciled? Is there one law of submission and non-resistance for the Black man, and another of rebellion and conflict for the white man? When it is the whites who are trodden in the dust, does Christ justify them in taking up arms to vindicate their rights? And when it is the blacks who are thus treated, does Christ require them to be patient, harmless, long-suffering, and forgiving? Are there two Christs?\n\nJames Weldon Johnson, a prominent figure of the Harlem Renaissance, expresses an antipathetic opinion in his autobiography:\n\nFor my part, I was never an admirer of Uncle Tom, nor of his type of goodness; but I believe that there were lots of old Negroes as foolishly good as he.\n\nIn 1949, American writer James Baldwin rejected the emasculation of the title character \"robbed of his humanity and divested of his sex\" as the price of spiritual salvation for a dark-skinned man in a fiction whose African-American characters, in Baldwin's view, were invariably two dimensional stereotypes. To Baldwin, Stowe was closer to a pamphleteer than a novelist and her artistic vision was fatally marred by polemics and racism that manifested especially in her handling of the title character. Stowe had stated that her sons had wept when she first read them the scene of Uncle Tom's death, but after Baldwin's essay it ceased being respectable to accept the melodrama of the Uncle Tom story. Uncle Tom became what critic Linda Williams describes as \"an epithet of servility\" and the novel's reputation plummeted until feminist critics led by Jane Tompkins reassessed the tale's female characters. \n\nAccording to Debra J. Rosenthal, in an introduction to a collection of critical appraisals for the \"Routledge Literary Sourcebook on Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin\", overall reactions have been mixed with some critics praising the novel for affirming the humanity of the African American characters and for the risks Stowe assumed in taking a very public stand against slavery before abolitionism had become a socially acceptable cause, and others criticizing the very limited terms upon which those characters' humanity was affirmed and the artistic shortcomings of political melodrama.\n\nA specific impetus for the novel was the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, which imposed heavy fines upon law enforcement personnel in Northern states if they refused to assist the return of people who escaped from slavery. The new law also stripped African Americans of the right to request a jury trial or to testify on their own behalf, even if they were legally free, whenever a single claimant presented an affidavit of ownership. The same law authorized a $1000 fine and six months imprisonment for anyone who knowingly harbored or assisted a fugitive slave. These terms infuriated Stowe, so the novel was written, read, and debated as a political abolitionist tract.\n\nStowe drew inspiration for the Uncle Tom character from several sources. The best-known of these was Josiah Henson, an ex-slave whose autobiography, \"The Life of Josiah Henson, Formerly a Slave, Now an Inhabitant of Canada, as Narrated by Himself\", was originally published in 1849 and later republished in two extensively revised editions after the publication of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". Henson was enslaved at birth in 1789. He became a Christian at age eighteen and began preaching. Henson attempted to purchase his freedom for $450, but after selling his personal assets to raise $350 and signing a promissory note for the remainder Henson's owner raised the price to $1000; Henson was unable to prove that the original agreement had been for a lesser amount. Shortly afterward Henson was ordered on a trip south to New Orleans. When he learned that he was to be sold there, he obtained a weapon. He contemplated murdering his white companions with the weapon, but decided against violence because his Christian morals forbade it. A sudden illness in one of his companions forced their return to Kentucky, and shortly afterward Henson escaped north with his family, settling in Canada where he became a civic leader.\n\nStowe read the first edition of Henson's narrative and later confirmed that she had incorporated elements from it into \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\". Kentucky and New Orleans figure in both Henson's narrative and the novel's settings, and some other story elements are similar.\n\nIn the public imagination, however, Henson became synonymous with Uncle Tom. After Stowe's death her son and grandson claimed she and Henson had met before \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" was written, but the chronology does not hold up to scrutiny and she probably drew material only from his published autobiography.\n\nIn short terms, Uncle Tom is labeled to persons, similar to \"snitch\" or \"betrayer\", whose motive is driven by acceptance that doing slavery was just how the (antebellum) Southern society worked, whether the acceptance is spontaneous or coerced.\n\nThe term \"Uncle Tom\" is used as a derogatory epithet for an excessively subservient person, particularly when that person perceives their own lower-class status based on race. It is similarly used to negatively describe a person who betrays their own group by participating in its oppression, whether or not they do so willingly. The term has also, with more intended neutrality, been applied in psychology in the form \"Uncle Tom syndrome\", a term for the use of subservience, appeasement and passivity to cope with intimidation and threats.\n\nThe popular negative connotations of \"Uncle Tom\" have largely been attributed to the numerous derivative works inspired by \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" in the decade after its release, rather than the original novel itself, whose title character is a more positive figure. These works lampooned and distorted the portrayal of Uncle Tom with politically loaded overtones.\n\nAmerican copyright law before 1856 did not give novel authors any control over derivative stage adaptations, so Stowe neither approved the adaptations nor profited from them. Minstrel show retellings in particular, usually performed by white men in blackface, tended to be derisive and pro-slavery, transforming Uncle Tom from Christian martyr to a fool or an apologist for slavery.\n\nAdapted theatrical performances of the novel, called Tom Shows, remained in continual production in the United States for at least 80 years. These representations had a lasting cultural impact and influenced the pejorative nature of the term \"Uncle Tom\" in later popular use.\n\nAlthough not all minstrel depictions of Uncle Tom were negative, the dominant version developed into a stock character very different from Stowe's hero. Stowe's Uncle Tom was a muscular and virile man who refused to obey when ordered to beat other slaves; the stock character of minstrel shows became a shuffling asexual individual with a receding hairline and graying hair. To Jo-Ann Morgan, author of \"Uncle Tom's Cabin as Visual Culture\", these shifting representations undermined the subversive layers of Stowe's original characterization by redefining Uncle Tom until he fit within prevailing racist norms. Particularly after the Civil War, as the political thrust of the novel which had arguably helped to precipitate that war became obsolete to actual political discourse, popular depictions of the title character recast him within the apologetics of the Lost Cause of the Confederacy. The virile father of the abolitionist serial and first book edition degenerated into a decrepit old man, and with that transformation the character lost the capacity for resistance that had originally given meaning to his choices. Stowe never meant Uncle Tom to be a derided name, but the term as a pejorative has developed based on how later versions of the character, stripped of his strength, were depicted on stage.\n\nClaire Parfait, author of \"The Publishing History of Uncle Tom's Cabin, 1852–2002\", opines that \"the many alterations in retellings of the Uncle Tom story demonstrate an impulse to correct the retellers' perceptions of its flaws\" and \"the capacity of the novel to irritate and rankle, even a century and a half after its first publication\".\n\n\n\n"}
