{"id": "51133696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51133696", "title": "ACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd", "text": "ACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd\n\nACCC v Cabcharge Australia Ltd is a 2010 decision of the Federal Court of Australia brought by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) against Cabcharge Australia Ltd. In June 2009, the ACCC began proceedings in the Federal Court against Cabcharge alleging that Cabcharge had breached section 46 of the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act (TPA) by misusing its market power and entering into an agreement to substantially lessen competition. The action alleged predatory pricing by Cabcharge and centred on Cabcharge's conduct in refusing to deal with competing suppliers to allow Cabcharge payments to be processed through EFTPOS terminals provided by rival companies and supplying taxi meters and fare updates at below actual cost or at no cost.\n\nIn September 2010, to settle the action, Cabcharge admitted a number of contraventions of TPA and the Federal Court imposed a fine of $15 million ($14 million in civil penalties and $1 million in costs), the highest ever penalty imposed for misuse of market power. The judgement was delivered by Justice Raymond Finkelstein on 17 November 2010.\n\nCabcharge provides various products and services in Australia and overseas, predominantly to taxi drivers, owners and networks (the firms that provide booking and dispatch services to drivers and owners). The services that Cabcharge provide include non-cash payment processing systems for taxi fares, payment processing systems for taxis and provision of taxi meters. The company holds a dominant market position in these services across Australia as it supplies almost 97% of Australian taxis with its electronic payment system.\n\nThe ACCC began proceedings in June 2009 in the Federal Court against Cabcharge Australia Ltd. The ACCC action alleged that Cabcharge had breached section 46 of the Trade Practices Act (TPA) by misusing its market power and entering into an agreement to substantially lessen competition. The action alleged predatory pricing by Cabcharge and centred on Cabcharge's conduct in refusing to deal with competing suppliers to allow Cabcharge payments to be processed through EFTPOS terminals provided by rival companies and supplying taximeters and meter updates at below actual cost or at no cost.\nAt the relevant date, to breach Section 46 of the TPA, a corporation must have misused its substantial market power to:\nSection 46 of the TPA was amended numerous times since September 2007 to strengthen the ACCC's ability to successfully bring proceedings for alleged contraventions. For example, in September 2007, a sub-section 46(1AA) was introduced into the TPA to prohibit corporations with substantial market share from engaging in predatory pricing. Predatory pricing occurs when a company sets its prices below cost for a sustained period for one of the anti-competitive purposes referred to above. In November 2008, the TPA was amended again to make clear the circumstances when corporations had 'taken advantage' of their market power. This change sought to deal with the evidentiary difficulties the regulator encountered in establishing this element in earlier cases. Since January 2007, the courts have also been given power to impose a civil penalty for each act or omission contravening the TPA. Civil penalties can now be imposed up to the greater of $10 million, three times the value of the benefit obtained from the misconduct, or 10% of the annual Australian turnover of the company involved.\n\nTo settle the proceedings, Cabcharge admitted to three contraventions of the TPA. The company agreed to the issue by the court of declarations, compliance orders, civil penalties of $14 million and costs of $1 million.\n\nOn 24 September 2010, Justice Finkelstein approved the settlement of the action and declared that Cabcharge had breached the TPA by taking advantage of its substantial degree of power in the Australian markets for the supply of services to enable non-cash payments for taxi fares and charges by taxi passengers and non-cash instruments that could be used only for the payment of taxi fares and charges.\n\nIt was found that since 2005 Cabcharge had unreasonably refused to deal with a potential competitor (namely Travel Tab which had changed its name to Mpos in January 2007) in the payments and instruments markets by refusing to allow Travel Tab/MPos to process Cabcharge instruments (e.g., Cabcharge cards) on Mpos EFTPOS equipment. It was found that: \"With respect to both refusals, Cabcharge acknowledges that although there would have been time and costs involved in developing appropriate interfaces, there was no technical reason that would prevent any electronic taxi-specific payment product from being processed by any EFTPOS terminal as long as that taxi-specific instrument and the relevant EFTPOS terminals complied with all relevant banking/financial industry protocols, including security protocols.\"\n\nIt was found that: \"Cabcharge’s refusals were for the purpose of preventing Travel Tab/MPos from processing Cabcharge instruments electronically and resulted in Cabcharge’s payment processing system remaining the only system that processed Cabcharge’s instruments electronically.\"\n\nBetween September 2004 and October 2007 Cabcharge acquired taximeters at a cost of $250 per meter. Of these, Cabcharge supplied approximately 727 units free of charge and approximately 5613 units at an invoiced price of $100 (of which it did not obtain any payment for approximately 758 units). At the time its competitors sold meters for between $430–550 plus GST. Cabcharge installed 197 meters free of charge at an estimated cost of $120 to $160 per installation. From 9 November 2007, it sold meters at a retail price of $250.\n\nIn addition, Cabcharge supplied meter updates free to networks and operators, notwithstanding that it incurred costs of around $75,000 to supply these updates. At the time its competitors charged $70 to $110 plus GST per update. Cabcharge funded its losses from profits it made from its payment processing systems.\n\nIt was found that Cabcharge took advantage of the substantial degree of power it had in the payment processing market for the purposes of: (1) affecting the profitability of other suppliers of meters and updates; (2) ensuring that other suppliers of meters and updates could not match or be price competitive with Cabcharge; and (3) ensuring that alternative suppliers did not commence supplying electronic processing services.\n"}
{"id": "1620421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620421", "title": "African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights", "text": "African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights (also known as the Banjul Charter) is an international human rights instrument that is intended to promote and protect human rights and basic freedoms in the African continent. \n\nIt emerged under the aegis of the Organisation of African Unity (since replaced by the African Union) which, at its 1979 Assembly of Heads of State and Government, adopted a resolution calling for the creation of a committee of experts to draft a continent-wide human rights instrument, similar to those that already existed in Europe (European Convention on Human Rights) and the Americas (American Convention on Human Rights). This committee was duly set up, and it produced a draft that was unanimously approved at the OAU's 18th Assembly held in June 1981, in Nairobi, Kenya. Pursuant to its Article 63 (whereby it was to \"come into force three months after the reception by the Secretary General of the instruments of ratification or adherence of a simple majority\" of the OAU's member states), the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights came into effect on 21 October 1986– in honour of which 21 October was declared \"African Human Rights Day\".\n\nOversight and interpretation of the Charter is the task of the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, which was set up in November 2, 1987 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and is now headquartered in Banjul, Gambia. A protocol to the Charter was subsequently adopted in 1998 whereby an African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights was to be created. The protocol came into effect on 25 January 2004. \n\nIn July 2004, the AU Assembly decided that the ACHP would be incorporated into the African Court of Justice. In July 2005, the AU Assembly then decided that the ACHP should be operationalised despite the fact that the protocol establishing the African Court of Justice had not yet come into effect. Accordingly, the Eighth Ordinary Session of the Executive Council of the African Union meeting in Khartoum, Sudan, on 22 January 2006, elected the first judges of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights. The relationship between the newly created Court and the Commission is yet to be determined.\n\nAs of 2016, 54 states have ratified the Charter. It has been ratified by every AU member state.\n\nThe African Charter on Human and People's Rights includes preamble, 3 parts, 4 chapters, and 63 articles. The Charter followed the footsteps of the European and Inter-American systems by creating a regional human rights system for Africa. The Charter shares many features with other regional instruments, but also has notable unique characteristics concerning the norms it recognizes and also its supervisory mechanism.\n\nThe preamble commits to the elimination of Zionism, which it compares with colonialism and apartheid, caused South Africa to qualify its 1996 accession with the reservation that the Charter fall in line with the UN's resolutions \"regarding the characterization of Zionism.\"\n\nThe Charter recognizes most of what are regarded universally accepted civil and political rights. The civil and political rights recognised in the Charter include the right to freedom from discrimination (Article 2 and 18(3)), equality (Article 3), life and personal integrity (Article 4), dignity (Article 5), freedom from slavery (Article 5), freedom from cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (Article 5), rights to due process concerning arrest and detention (Article 6), the right to a fair trial (Article 7 and 25), freedom of religion (Article 8), freedom of information and expression (Article 9), freedom of association (Article 10), freedom to assembly (Article 11), freedom of movement (Article 12), freedom to political participation (Article 13), and the right to property (Article 14).\n\nSome human rights scholars however consider the Charter's coverage of other civil and political rights to be inadequate. For example, the right to privacy or a right against forced or compulsory labour are not explicitly recognised. The provisions concerning fair trial and political participation are considered incomplete by international standards. However, this is subject to argument as for example Article 5 of the Charter states \"Every individual shall have the right to the respect of the dignity inherent in a human being and to the recognition of this legal status. All forms of exploitation and degradation of man particularly slavery, slave trade, torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment and treatment shall be prohibited\" also, Article 15 states \"Every individual shall have the right to work under equitable and satisfactory conditions, and shall receive equal pay for equal work\" - which may be understood to prohibit forced or compulsory labour, although this is not explicitly mentioned. Similarly, the Charter does not explicitly recognise the right to vote as a means of political participation, but Article 13 states \"(1) Every citizen shall have the right to participate freely in the government of his country, either directly or through freely chosen representatives in accordance with the provisions of the law. (2) Every citizen shall have the right to equal access to the public service of his country. (3) Every individual shall have the right of access to public property and services in strict equality of all persons before the law.\"\n\nThe Charter also recognises certain economic, social and cultural rights, and overall the Charter is considered to place considerable emphasis on these rights. The Charter recognises right to work (Article 15), the right to health (Article 16), and the right to education (Article 17). Through a decision by the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, SERAC v Nigeria (2001), the Charter is also understood to include a right to housing and a right to food as “implicit” in the Charter, particularly in light of its provisions on the right to life (Art. 4), right to health (Art. 16) and to development (Art. 22).\n\nIn addition to recognising the individual rights mentioned above the Charter also recognises collective or group rights, or peoples' rights and third-generation human rights. As such the Charter recognises group rights to a degree not matched by the European or Inter-American regional human rights instruments. The Charter awards the family protection by the state (Article 18), while \"peoples\" have the right to equality (Article 19), the right to self-determination (Article 20), to freely dispose of their wealth and natural resources (Article 21), the right to development (Article 22), the right to peace and security (Article 23) and \"a generally satisfactory environment\" (Article 24).\n\nThe Charter not only awards rights to individuals and peoples, but also includes duties incumbent upon them. These duties are contained in Article 29 and are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50626298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50626298", "title": "African Governance Architecture", "text": "African Governance Architecture\n\nThe African Governance Architecture (AGA) is a mechanism for dialogue between stakeholders that are mandated to promote good governance and bolster democracy in Africa. In the book entitled \"The African Union Law\" (Ed. Berger Levrault, 2014, p. 29) Blaise Tchikaya established the link between conceptual platform called \"AGA\" and the modernisation of International Law applicable to African states. The AGA is fundamentally one aspect – probably the most significant – of recent international law of governance. Furthermore, it is a key actor in promoting the domestication and implementation of the objectives outlined in the legal and policy pronouncements in the African Union (AU) Shared Values. Established in 2011 AGA is based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in the AU Headquarters with the AGA Platform Members based Africa wide. In February 2016 the rules of Procedure on how the AGA legally functions were adopted by Member States during the African Union Summit.\n\nThe discussion of a “Pan-african Architecture on Governance” began with the 16th Ordinary Session of the African Assembly which focused on the theme of the Shared Values of the AU. This Session was held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in 2011 and adopted a mandate that would establish a \"Pan-African Architecture on Governance\". In order to give effect to the Assembly decision on the Establishment of the Pan-African Governance Architecture, the African Union Commission (AUC) established the African Governance Architecture (AGA) as a platform that promotes interactions between stakeholders who work on promoting good governance and strengthening democracy in Africa, in addition to translating the objectives of the legal and policy pronouncements in the AU Shared Values (see below for more information).\n\nWith 2012 being the year of AU Shared Values the diverse charters of the AU were pushed to becoming an integral guide to the activities to both the Organs and Member States of the African Union. As a result, the African Charter for Democracy, Elections and Governance (ACDEG), an integral document stipulating the functions of the AGA, was put into force after being adopted in 2007.\n\nOn the 14 of June the AGA Platform was established in Lusaka, Zambia in order to create a space within the AGA structure where the diverse stakeholders and organs of the AU working in the field of Democracy, Elections and Governance work together to implement and domesticate the AU Shared Values.\n\nIn 2013 both the Platform and Secretariat became operational and finally for the 26th ordinary Session of the AU assembly (Jan 2016) the Rules of Procedure were legally adopted giving the AGA a legal guide on its activities.\n\nThe overall goal of the AGA is to strengthen good governance and consolidate democracy in Africa.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFour interrelated components make up the structure of AGA:\n\nSource:\n\nThe AGA is structured around a normative framework that is set up by the African Union Shared Values. AGA is based on objectives and principles that have been defined in the various AU Shared Values instruments that AU Member States have signed and ratified and thus committed to, including but not limited to the following:\n\nSources:\n\nThe AGA Platform consists of institutions and AU Organs with a formal mandate on governance, democracy, human rights, elections and humanitarian assistance. The Platform envisions to harmonize the shared instruments and coordinate joint initiatives in governance and democracy. The members are:\nThe AGA Platform is technically assisted by the AGA Secretariat and the Clusters within AGA. They are both the mechanisms for interaction and foster the engagement of the AGA Platform Members.\n\nSource:\n\nThe Clusters were established as coordinating arms to support and achieve the goals of AGA. There are five clusters focusing on the different fields that AGA is involved in. These are:\n\nSource:\nThe AGA Secretariat as mentioned is the coordinating hub of the AGA Platform. It is housed in the Department of Political Affairs of the African Union Commission (AUC) and is responsible for collating and processing the Platform outcomes for presentation to, and consideration by AU Policy Organs.\n\nSource:\n\nThe African Governance Facility (APF) is the resource mobilization framework of AGA designed to support Platform Members’ initiatives and programs which promote good governance and democracy on the continent. The facility aims to especially promote:\n\"institutional capacity strengthening and building; dialogues to facilitate citizen engagement in democratic governance processes; technical support to Member States towards the ratification, domestication, implementation and reporting on AU Shared Values instruments; and preventive diplomacy, post conflict reconstruction and peacebuilding initiatives\".\n\nThe activities are divided between the activities of the AGA secretariat that are meant to coordinate the implementation and activities of the AGA platform members and secondly the activities of the AGA platform members.\n\nThe AGA Secretariat activities are as follows:\n\nThe AGA Youth Engagement Strategy was set up to promote the effective participation of Africa’s youths in democratic governance initiatives of the AGA platform especially with a focus on democracy, elections, human rights and governance in Africa. With Africa having the youngest population on earth the Youth Strategy thus sees this as an area of focus for increasing the engagement with civil society.\n\nThe Strategy especially suggests to develop a continental youth mentorship program, setup Model AUs working closely with higher learning institutions in Africa and making space for AU \"Youth Ambassador\" positions.\n\nSources:\n\nThis Dialogue occurred for the fourth time in December 2015. It was set up to create an annual event where AGA Platform members, member states and non-state actors frankly account and analyze the impact of their work towards consolidating democracy and bolstering good governance in Africa. In order to further align with the previously mentioned Youth Engagement Strategy, AGA has also introduced a youth pre-forum that aims to bolster the involvement of youths in High Level meetings. The topics of the last four High Level Dialogues were:\n\n\nSource:\n\nCurrently the AGA is working on a unified Knowledge Management Strategy that envisions to create a unified strategy to compile, produce and dessiminate knowledge products on the Platform members. The exact content of the strategy is yet to be announced and verified by external sources.\n\nFurthermore, the Platform Members work actively in ensuring joint programming a few examples are:\n\nThe African Commission working together with the African Court and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child on a joint inquiry mission in South Sudan resulting in a 315-page document highlighting the Human Rights violations on the basis on which extensive recommendations were set forward.\n\nState Reporting guidelines as legislated in the ACDEG and finalized with the adoption of the rules of procedure obligate countries to submit a State Report every 2 years. To date none have been submitted. The State Reporting Process and Mechanism gives rise to large scale interaction between all AGA Platform Members especially as members such as the Commission or APRM have existing State reporting mechanisms that can be utilized and thus create synergies within the mandate of AGA.\n\nSource:\n\nDue to the nature of the AGA there are many overlapping areas with other organs and structures within the African Union. As it is a coordinating body much like the African Peace and Security Architecture (APSA) they complement each other in that they both acknowledge that democratic governance and Peace and Security are interrelated and are reinforcing factors required to achieve both. Thus AGA and APSA are working on mutually reinforcing projects through structure such as the Inter- Departmental Task Force on Conflict Prevention (IDTFCP)\n\nCritics have noted that this looks good on paper but little has become operational within this synergy. The weak linkages need to be strengthened to become mutually beneficial\n\n\nThe main challenges that have been identified by various think tanks and external Evaluations are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303647", "title": "Argument in the alternative", "text": "Argument in the alternative\n\nOriginating in the legal profession, argument in the alternative is a strategy in which a lawyer advances several competing (and possibly mutually exclusive) arguments in order to pre-empt objections by his adversary, with the goal of showing that regardless of interpretation there is no reasonable conclusion other than the advocate's.\n\nBart Simpson's classic \"I didn't do it, no one saw me do it, you can't prove anything!\" could be considered a somewhat humorous example. In a more serious example, a lawyer might argue, not only that his client was elsewhere when a murder or other crime took place, but also that \"even if he had been on the scene\", he would have had no way of accessing the alleged murder weapon. In this way, the lawyer attacks several premises of the prosecution's argument at once. The secondary line of reasoning might be presented to persuade a sub-audience who would not otherwise agree with the primary argument.\n\nIn regards to contract law, arguing in the alternative is done where a dispute arises over the terms of a contract. In a particular case it may be best for the plaintiff to allege that a statement made was to become a term of the contract. However the circumstances of the case may be such that the plaintiff cannot be certain that the court will accept this argument. To allow for this possibility, all the plaintiff need do is to argue in the alternative that the statement was in fact a representation (which allows for remedies based on misrepresentation) or again in the alternative that the statement became a part of a collateral contract. \n\nOccasionally, such arguments can be confusing to some people, who perceive a self-contradiction. Generally speaking, this is a case of mistakenly thinking the argument claims \"both\" alternatives are true, when in reality it is claiming only that one or the other of them must be.\n\n"}
{"id": "1270080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270080", "title": "Assault (tort)", "text": "Assault (tort)\n\nIn common law, assault is the tort of acting intentionally, that is with either general or specific intent, causing the reasonable apprehension of an immediate harmful or offensive contact. Because assault requires intent, it is considered an intentional tort, as opposed to a tort of negligence. Actual ability to carry out the apprehended contact is not necessary. In Criminal Law an assault is defined as an attempt to commit battery, requiring the specific intent to cause physical injury.\n\nAs distinguished from battery, assault does not need to involve actual contact; it only needs intent to make or threaten contact and the resulting apprehension. However, assault requires more than words alone. For example, wielding a knife while shouting threats could be construed as assault if an apprehension was created. Fear is not required for an assault to occur, only anticipation of subsequent battery. \n\nA battery can occur without a preceding assault, such as if a person is struck in the back of the head. An assault can be an attempted battery.\n\nThree elements must be established in order to establish tortious assault: first, there must be a positive act by the defendant; second, the plaintiff had reasonable apprehension (the requisite state of mind) of immediate physical contact, and third, the defendant's act of interference was intentional (the defendant intended the resulting apprehension). But intent for purposes of civil assault can be either general or specific. Specific intent means that when the defendant acted, he or she intended to cause apprehension of a harmful or unwanted contact. General intent means that the defendant knew with substantial certainty that the action would put someone in apprehension of a harmful or unwanted contact.\n\nWhile the law varies by jurisdiction, contact is often defined as \"harmful\" if it objectively intends to injure, disfigure, impair, or cause pain.\n\nThe act is deemed \"offensive\" if it would offend a reasonable person’s sense of personal dignity.\n\nWhile \"imminence\" is judged objectively and varies widely on the facts, it generally suggests there is little to no opportunity for intervening acts.\n\nLastly, the state of \"apprehension\" should be differentiated from the general state of fear, as apprehension requires only that the person be aware of the imminence of the harmful or offensive act.\n\nIn Australia, the test for proving tortious assault is formulated as requiring \" 'proof of an intention to create in another person an apprehension of imminent harmful or offensive contact' \".\n\nAssault can be justified in situations of self-defense or defense of a third party where the act was deemed reasonable. It can also be justified in the context of a sport where consent may be given or implied. An act of assault may also be privileged, meaning that the person who commits the assault had the legal right to do so and cannot be sued, as might occur if a police officer draws a firearm on a criminal suspect. Lastly, automatism (e.g., sleep walking) acts to negate the intent element as someone acting while asleep is not acting voluntarily.\n\n"}
{"id": "1327248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327248", "title": "Bankruptcy in the United States", "text": "Bankruptcy in the United States\n\nIn the United States, bankruptcy is governed by federal law, commonly referred to as the \"Bankruptcy Code\" (\"Code\"). The United States Constitution (Article 1, Section 8, Clause 4) authorizes Congress to enact \"uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States.\" Congress has exercised this authority several times since 1801, including through adoption of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as amended, codified in Title 11 of the United States Code and the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (BAPCPA).\n\nSome laws relevant to bankruptcy are found in other parts of the United States Code. For example, bankruptcy crimes are found in Title 18 of the United States Code (Crimes). Tax implications of bankruptcy are found in Title 26 of the United States Code (Internal Revenue Code), and the creation and jurisdiction of bankruptcy courts are found in Title 28 of the United States Code (Judiciary and Judicial procedure).\n\nBankruptcy cases are filed in United States Bankruptcy Court (units of the United States District Courts), and federal law governs procedure in bankruptcy cases. However, state laws are often applied to determine how bankruptcy affects the property rights of debtors. For example, law governing the validity of liens or rules protecting certain property from creditors (known as exemptions), may derive from state law or federal law. Because state law plays a major role in many bankruptcy cases, it is often unwise to generalize some bankruptcy issues across state lines.\n\nBefore 1898, there were several short-lived federal bankruptcy laws in the U.S. The first was the Bankruptcy Act of 1800 which was repealed in 1803 and followed by the act of 1841, which was repealed in 1843, and then the act of 1867, which was amended in 1874 and repealed in 1878.\n\nThe first modern Bankruptcy Act in America, sometimes called the \"Nelson Act\", was initially entered into force in 1898. The current Bankruptcy Code was enacted in 1978 by § 101 of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, and generally became effective on October 1, 1979. The current Code completely replaced the former Bankruptcy Act, the \"Chandler Act\" of 1938. The Chandler Act gave unprecedented authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the administration of bankruptcy filings. The current Code has been amended numerous times since 1978. See also the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.\n\nEntities seeking relief under the Bankruptcy Code may file a petition for relief under a number of different chapters of the Code, depending on circumstances. Title 11 contains nine chapters, six of which provide for the filing of a petition. The other three chapters provide rules governing bankruptcy cases in general. A case is typically referred to by the chapter under which the petition is filed. These chapters are described below.\n\nLiquidation under a Chapter 7 filing is the most common form of bankruptcy. Liquidation involves the appointment of a trustee who collects the non-exempt property of the debtor, sells it and distributes the proceeds to the creditors. Because each state allows for debtors to keep essential property, Chapter 7 cases are often \"no asset\" cases, meaning that the bankrupt estate has no non-exempt assets to fund a distribution to creditors.\n\nChapter 7 bankruptcy remains on a bankruptcy filer's credit report as part of credit history for 10 years.\n\nUnited States bankruptcy law significantly changed in 2005 with the passage of BAPCPA, which made it more difficult for consumer debtors to file bankruptcy in general and Chapter 7 in particular.\n\nAdvocates of BAPCPA claimed that its passage would reduce losses to creditors such as credit card companies, and that those creditors would then pass on the savings to other borrowers in the form of lower interest rates. Critics assert that these claims turned out to be false, observing that although credit card company losses decreased after passage of the Act, prices charged to customers increased, and credit card company profits increased.\n\nA Chapter 9 bankruptcy is available only to municipalities. Chapter 9 is a form of reorganization, not liquidation. Notable examples of municipal bankruptcies include that of Orange County, California (1994 to 1996) and the bankruptcy of the city of Detroit, Michigan in 2013.\n\nBankruptcy under Chapter 11, Chapter 12, or Chapter 13 is more complex reorganization and involves allowing the debtor to keep some or all of his or her property and to use future earnings to pay off creditors. Consumers usually file chapter 7 or chapter 13. Chapter 11 filings by individuals are allowed, but are rare. Chapter 12 is similar to Chapter 13 but is available only to \"family farmers\" and \"family fisherman\" in certain situations. Chapter 12 generally has more generous terms for debtors than a comparable Chapter 13 case would have available. As recently as mid-2004 Chapter 12 was scheduled to expire, but in late 2004 it was renewed and made permanent.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 added Chapter 15 (as a replacement for section 304) and deals with cross-border insolvency: foreign companies with U.S. debts.\n\nAs a threshold matter, bankruptcy cases are either voluntary or involuntary. In voluntary bankruptcy cases, which account for the overwhelming majority of cases, debtors petition the bankruptcy court. With involuntary bankruptcy, creditors, rather than the debtor, file the petition in bankruptcy. Involuntary petitions are rare, however, and are occasionally used in business settings to force a company into bankruptcy so that creditors can enforce their rights.\n\nExcept in Chapter 9 cases, commencement of a bankruptcy case creates an \"estate.\" Generally, the debtor's creditors must look to the assets of the estate for satisfaction of their claims. The estate consists of all property interests of the debtor at the time of case commencement, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions. In the case of a married person in a community property state, the estate may include certain community property interests of the debtor's spouse even if the spouse has not filed bankruptcy. The estate may also include other items, including but not limited to property acquired by will or inheritance within 180 days after case commencement.\n\nFor federal income tax purposes, the bankruptcy estate of an individual in a Chapter 7 or 11 case is a separate taxable entity from the debtor. The bankruptcy estate of a corporation, partnership, or other collective entity, or the estate of an individual in Chapters 12 or 13, is not a separate taxable entity from the debtor.\n\nIn \"Northern Pipeline Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co.\", the United States Supreme Court held that certain provisions of the law relating to Article I bankruptcy judges (who are not life-tenured \"Article III\" judges) are unconstitutional. Congress responded in 1984 with changes to remedy constitutional defects. Under the revised law, bankruptcy judges in each judicial district constitute a \"unit\" of the applicable United States District Court. The judge is appointed for a term of 14 years by the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicable district is located.\n\nThe United States District Courts have subject-matter jurisdiction over bankruptcy matters. However, each such district court may, by order, \"refer\" bankruptcy matters to the Bankruptcy Court, and most district courts have a standing \"reference\" order to that effect, so that all bankruptcy cases are handled by the Bankruptcy Court. In unusual circumstances, a district court may \"withdraw the reference\" (\"i.e.\", taking a particular case or proceeding within the case away from the bankruptcy court) and decide the matter itself.\n\nDecisions of the bankruptcy court are generally appealable to the district court, and then to the Court of Appeals. However, in a few jurisdictions a separate court called a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel (composed of bankruptcy judges) hears certain appeals from bankruptcy courts.\n\nThe United States Attorney General appoints a separate United States Trustee for each of twenty-one geographical regions for a five-year term. Each Trustee is removable from office by and works under the general supervision of the Attorney General. The U.S. Trustees maintain regional offices that correspond with federal judicial districts and are administratively overseen by the Executive Office for United States Trustees in Washington, D.C. Each United States Trustee, an officer of the U.S. Department of Justice, is responsible for maintaining and supervising a panel of private trustees for chapter 7 bankruptcy cases. The Trustee has other duties including the administration of most bankruptcy cases and trustees. Under Section 307 of Title 11 of the U.S. Code, a U.S. Trustee \"may raise and may appear and be heard on any issue in any case or proceeding\" in bankruptcy except for filing a plan of reorganization in a chapter 11 case.\n\nBankruptcy Code § 362 imposes the automatic stay at the moment a bankruptcy petition is filed. The automatic stay generally prohibits the commencement, enforcement or appeal of actions and judgments, judicial or administrative, against a debtor for the collection of a claim that arose prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition. The automatic stay also prohibits collection actions and proceedings directed toward property of the bankruptcy estate itself.\n\nIn some courts, violations of the stay are treated as void \"ab initio\" as a matter of law, although the court may annul the stay to give effect to otherwise void acts. Other courts treat violations as voidable (not necessarily void \"ab initio\"). Any violation of the stay may give rise to damages being assessed against the violating party. Non-willful violations of the stay are often excused without penalty, but willful violators are liable for punitive damages and may also be found to be in contempt of court.\n\nA secured creditor may be allowed to take the applicable collateral if the creditor first obtains permission from the court. Permission is requested by a creditor by filing a motion for relief from the automatic stay. The court must either grant the motion or provide adequate protection to the secured creditor that the value of their collateral will not decrease during the stay.\n\nWithout the bankruptcy protection of the automatic stay, creditors might race to the courthouse to improve their positions against a debtor. If the debtor's business were facing a temporary crunch, but were nevertheless viable in the long term, it might not survive a \"run\" by creditors. A run could also result in waste and unfairness among similarly situated creditors.\n\nBankruptcy Code 362(d) gives 4 ways that a creditor can get the automatic stay removed.\n\nDebtors, or the trustees that represent them, gain the ability to reject, or avoid actions taken with respect to the debtor's property for a specified time prior to the filing of the bankruptcy. While the details of avoidance actions are nuanced, there are three general categories of avoidance actions:\n\nAll avoidance actions attempt to limit the risk of the legal system accelerating the financial demise of a financially unstable debtor who has not yet declared bankruptcy. The bankruptcy system generally endeavors to reward creditors who continue to extend financing to debtors and discourage creditors from accelerating their debt collection efforts. Avoidance actions are some of the most obvious of the mechanisms to encourage this goal.\n\nDespite the apparent simplicity of these rules, a number of exceptions exist in the context of each category of avoidance action.\n\nPreference actions generally permit the trustee to avoid (that is, to void an otherwise legally binding transaction) certain transfers of the debtor's property that benefit creditors where the transfers occur on or within 90 days of the date of filing of the bankruptcy petition. For example, if a debtor has a debt to a friendly creditor and a debt to an unfriendly creditor, and pays the friendly creditor, and then declares bankruptcy one week later, the trustee may be able to recover the money paid to the friendly creditor under 11 U.S.C. § 547. While this \"reach back\" period typically extends 90 days backwards from the date of the bankruptcy, the amount of time is longer in the case of \"insiders\"—typically one year. Insiders include family and close business contacts of the debtor.\n\nBankruptcy fraudulent transfer law is similar in practice to non-bankruptcy fraudulent transfer law. Some terms, however, are more generous in bankruptcy than they are otherwise. For instance, the statute of limitations within bankruptcy is two years as opposed to a shorter time frame in some non-bankruptcy contexts. Generally a fraudulent transfer action operates in much the same way as a preference avoidance. Fraudulent transfer actions, however, sometimes require a showing of intent to shelter the property from a creditor.\n\nGenerally, conversion of nonexempt assets into exempt assets on the eve of bankruptcy would not be indicia of fraud per se. However, depending on the amount of the exemption and the circumstances surrounding the conversion, a court may find the conversion to be a fraudulent transfer. This is especially true when the conversion amounts to nothing more than a temporary arrangement. The cases that held a conversion of nonexempt into exempt assets to be a fraudulent transfer tend to focus on the existence of an independent reason for the conversion. For example, if a debtor purchased a residence protected by a homestead exemption with the intent to reside in such residence that would be an allowable conversion into nonexempt property. But where the debtor purchased the residence with all of their available funds, leaving no money to live off, that presumed that the conversion was temporary, indicating a fraudulent transfer. The courts look at the timing of the transfer as the most important factor.\n\nThe \"strong arm\" avoidance power stems from 11 U.S.C. § 544 and permits the trustee to exercise the rights that a debtor in the same situation would have under the relevant state law. Specifically, § 544(a) grants the trustee the rights of avoidance of (1) a judicial lien creditor, (2) an unsatisfied lien creditor, and (3) a bona fide purchaser of real property. In practice these avoidance powers often overlap with preference and fraudulent transfer avoidance powers.\n\nSecured creditors whose security interests survive the commencement of the case may look to the property that is the subject of their security interests, after obtaining permission from the court (in the form of relief from the automatic stay). Security interests, created by what are called secured transactions, are liens on the property of a debtor.\n\nUnsecured creditors are generally divided into two classes: unsecured priority creditors and general unsecured creditors. Unsecured priority creditors are further subdivided into classes as described in the law. In some cases the assets of the estate are insufficient to pay all priority unsecured creditors in full; in such cases the general unsecured creditors receive nothing.\n\nBecause of the priority and rank ordering feature of bankruptcy law, debtors sometimes improperly collude with others (who may be related to the debtor) to prefer them, by for example granting them a security interest in otherwised unpledged assets. For this reason, the bankruptcy trustee is permitted to reverse certain transactions of the debtor within period of time prior to the date of bankruptcy filing. The time period varies depending on the relationship of the parties to the debtor and the nature of the transaction.\n\nIn Chapters 7, 12, and 13, creditors must file a \"proof of claim\" to get paid. In a Chapter 11 case, a creditor is not required to file a proof of claim (that is, a proof of claim is \"deemed filed\") if the creditor's claim is listed on the debtor's bankruptcy schedules, unless the claim is scheduled as \"disputed, contingent, or unliquidated.\" If the creditor's claim is not listed on the schedules in a Chapter 11 case, the creditor must file a proof of claim.\n\nThe bankruptcy trustee may reject certain executory contracts and unexpired leases. For bankruptcy purposes, a contract is generally considered executory when both parties to the contract have not yet fully performed a material obligation of the contract.\n\nIf the Trustee (or debtor in possession, in many chapter 11 cases) rejects a contract, the debtor's bankruptcy estate is subject to ordinary breach of contract damages, but the damages amount is an obligation and is generally treated as an unsecured claim.\n\nUnder some chapters, notably chapters 7, 9 and 11, committees of various stakeholders are appointed by the bankruptcy court. In Chapter 11 and 9, these committees consist of entities that hold the seven largest claims of the kinds represented by the committee. Other committees may also be appointed by the court.\n\nCommittees have daily communications with the debtor and the debtor's advisers and have access to a wide variety of documents as part of their functions and responsibilities.\n\nAlthough in theory all property of the debtor that is not excluded from the estate under the Bankruptcy Code becomes property of the estate (\"i.e.\", is automatically transferred from the debtor to the estate) at the time of commencement of a case, an individual debtor (not a partnership, corporation, etc.) may claim certain items of property as \"exempt\" and thereby keep those items (subject, however, to any valid liens or other encumbrances). An individual debtor may choose between a \"federal\" list of exemptions and the list of exemptions provided by the law of the state in which the debtor files the bankruptcy case unless the state in which the debtor files the bankruptcy case has enacted legislation prohibiting the debtor from choosing the exemptions on the federal list. Almost 40 states have done so. In states where the debtor is allowed to choose between the federal and state exemptions, the debtor has the opportunity to choose the exemptions that most fully benefit him or her and, in many cases, may convert at least some of his or her property from non-exempt form (e.g., cash) to exempt form (e.g., increased equity in a home created by using the cash to pay down a mortgage) prior to filing the bankruptcy case.\n\nThe exemption laws vary greatly from state to state. In some states, exempt property includes equity in a home or car, tools of the trade, and some personal effects. In other states an asset class such as tools of trade will not be exempt by virtue of its class except to the extent it is claimed under a more general exemption for personal property.\n\nOne major purpose of bankruptcy is to ensure orderly and reasonable management of debt. Thus, exemptions for personal effects are thought to prevent punitive seizures of items of little or no economic value (personal effects, personal care items, ordinary clothing), since this does not promote any desirable economic result. Similarly, tools of the trade may, depending on the available exemptions, be a permitted exemption as their continued possession allows the insolvent debtor to move forward into productive work as soon as possible.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 placed pension plans not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), like 457 and 403(b) plans, in the same status as ERISA qualified plans with respect to having exemption status akin to spendthrift trusts. SEP-IRAs and SIMPLEs still are outside federal protection and must rely on state law.\n\nMost states have property laws that allow a trust agreement to contain a legally enforceable restriction on the transfer of a beneficial interest in the trust (sometimes known as an \"anti-alienation provision\"). The anti-alienation provision generally prevents creditors of a beneficiary from acquiring the beneficiary's share of the trust. Such a trust is sometimes called a spendthrift trust. To prevent fraud, most states allow this protection only to the extent that the beneficiary did not transfer property to the trust. Also, such provisions do not protect cash or other property once it has been transferred from the trust to the beneficiary. Under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, an anti-alienation provision in a spendthrift trust is recognized. This means that the beneficiary's share of the trust generally does not become property of the bankruptcy estate.\n\nIn a Chapter 7 liquidation case, an individual debtor may redeem certain \"tangible personal property intended primarily for personal, family, or household use\" that is encumbered by a lien. To qualify, the property generally either (A) must be exempt under section 522 of the Bankruptcy Code, or (B) must have been abandoned by the trustee under section 554 of the Bankruptcy Code. To redeem the property, the debtor must pay the lienholder the full amount of the applicable allowed secured claim against the property.\n\nKey concepts in bankruptcy include the debtor's discharge and the related \"fresh start.\" Discharge is available in some but not all cases. For example, in a Chapter 7 case only an individual debtor (not a corporation, partnership, etc.) can receive a discharge. Discharge is also believed to play an important role in credit markets by encouraging lenders, who may be more sophisticated and have better information than debtors, to monitor debtors and limit risk-taking.\n\nThe effect of a bankruptcy discharge is to eliminate \"only\" the debtor's \"personal\" liability, \"not\" the \"in rem\" liability for a secured debt to the extent of the value of collateral. The term \"in rem\" essentially means \"with respect to the thing itself\" (i.e., the collateral). For example, if a debt in the amount of $100,000 is secured by property having a value of only $80,000, the $20,000 deficiency is treated, in bankruptcy, as an unsecured claim (even though it's part of a \"secured\" debt). The $80,000 portion of the debt is treated as a secured claim. Assuming a discharge is granted and none of the $20,000 deficiency is paid (e.g., due to insufficiency of funds), the $20,000 deficiency—the debtor's \"personal liability\"—is discharged (assuming the debt is not non-dischargeable under another Bankruptcy Code provision). The $80,000 portion of the debt is the \"in rem\" liability, and it is not discharged by the court's discharge order. This liability can presumably be satisfied by the creditor taking the asset itself. An essential concept is that when commentators say that a debt is \"dischargeable,\" they are referring only to the debtor's personal liability on the debt. To the extent that a liability is covered by the value of collateral, the debt is not discharged.\n\nThis analysis assumes, however, that the collateral does not increase in value after commencement of the case. If the collateral increases in value and the debtor (rather than the estate) keeps the collateral (e.g., where the asset is exempt or is abandoned by the trustee back to the debtor), the amount of the creditor's security interest may or may not increase. In situations where the debtor (rather than the creditor) is allowed to benefit from the increase in collateral value, the effect is called \"lien stripping\" or \"paring down.\" Lien stripping is allowed only in certain cases depending on the kind of collateral and the particular chapter of the Code under which the discharge is granted.\n\nThe discharge also does not eliminate certain rights of a creditor to setoff (or \"offset\") certain mutual debts owed by the creditor to the debtor against certain claims of that creditor against the debtor, where both the debt owed by the creditor and the claim against the debtor arose prior to the commencement of the case.\n\nNot every debt may be discharged under every chapter of the Code. Certain taxes owed to Federal, state or local government, student loans, and child support obligations are not dischargeable. (Guaranteed student loans are potentially dischargeable, however, if debtor prevails in a difficult-to-win adversary proceeding against the lender commenced by a complaint to determine dischargeability. Also, the debtor can petition the court for a \"financial hardship\" discharge, but the grant of such discharges is rare.)\n\nThe debtor's liability on a secured debt, such as a mortgage or mechanic's lien on a home, may be discharged. The effects of the mortgage or mechanic's lien, however, cannot be discharged in most cases if the lien affixed prior to filing. Therefore, if the debtor wishes to retain the property, the debt must usually be paid for as agreed. (See also lien avoidance, reaffirmation agreement) (Note: there may be additional flexibility available in Chapter 13 for debtors dealing with oversecured collateral such as a financed auto, so long as the oversecured property is not the debtor's primary residence.)\n\nAny debt tainted by one of a variety of wrongful acts recognized by the Bankruptcy Code, including defalcation, or consumer purchases or cash advances above a certain amount incurred a short time before filing, cannot be discharged. However, certain kinds of debt, such as debts incurred by way of fraud, may be dischargeable through the Chapter 13 \"super discharge.\" All in all, as of 2005, there are 19 general categories of debt that cannot be discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and fewer debts that cannot be discharged under Chapter 13.\n\nThe section of the Bankruptcy code that governs which entities are permitted to file a bankruptcy petition is . Banks and other deposit institutions, insurance companies, railroads, and certain other financial institutions and entities regulated by the federal and state governments, and Private and Personal Trusts, except Statutory Business Trusts, as permitted by some States, cannot be a debtor under the Bankruptcy Code. Instead, special state and federal laws govern the liquidation or reorganization of these companies. In the U.S. context at least, it is incorrect to refer to a bank or insurer as being \"bankrupt\". The terms \"insolvent\", \"in liquidation\", or \"in receivership\" would be appropriate under some circumstances.\n\nThe Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), a U.S. government corporation that insures certain defined benefit pension plan obligations, may assert liens in bankruptcy under either of two separate statutory provisions. The first is found in the Internal Revenue Code, at , which provides that liens held by the PBGC have the status of a tax lien. Under this provision, the unpaid mandatory pension contributions must exceed one million dollars for the lien to arise.\n\nThe second statute is , under which a PBGC lien has the status of a tax lien in bankruptcy. Under this provision, the lien may not exceed 30% of the net worth of all persons liable under a separate provision, .\n\nIn bankruptcy, PBGC liens (like Federal tax liens) generally are not valid against certain competing liens that were perfected before a notice of the PBGC lien was filed.\n\nNinety-one percent of U.S. individuals filing bankruptcy hire an attorney to file their Chapter 7 petition. The typical cost of an attorney is $1,170.00. Alternatives to filing with an attorney are: filing pro se, meaning without an attorney, which requires an individual to fill out least sixteen separate forms, hiring a petition preparer (which have a track record of shoddy work and unsuccessful cases), or using online software to generate the petition.\n\nThe U.S. Bankruptcy Court also charges fees. The amounts of these fees vary depending on the Chapter of bankruptcy being filed. As of 2016, the filing fee for Chapter 7 was $335 and $310 for Chapter 13. It is possible to apply for an installment payment plan in cases of financial hardship. Additional fees are charged for adding creditors after filing ($31), converting the case from one chapter to another ($10-$45), and reopening the case ($245 for Chapter 7 and $235 in Chapter 13).\n\nIn the United States, criminal provisions relating to bankruptcy fraud and other bankruptcy crimes are found in sections 151 through 158 of Title 18 of the United States Code.\n\nBankruptcy fraud includes filing a bankruptcy petition or any other document in a bankruptcy case for the purpose of attempting to execute or conceal a scheme or artifice to defraud. Bankruptcy fraud also includes making a false or fraudulent representation, claim or promise in connection with a bankruptcy case, either before or after the commencement of the case, for the purpose of attempting to execute or conceal a scheme or artifice to defraud. Bankruptcy fraud is punishable by a fine, or by up to five years in prison, or both.\n\nKnowingly and fraudulently concealing property of the estate from a custodian, trustee, marshal, or other court officer is a separate offense, and may also be punishable by a fine, or by up to five years in prison, or both. The same penalty may be imposed for knowingly and fraudulently concealing, destroying, mutilating, falsifying, or making a false entry in any books, documents, records, papers, or other recorded information relating to the property or financial affairs of the debtor after a case has been filed.\n\nCertain offenses regarding fraud in connection with a bankruptcy case may also be classified as \"racketeering activity\" for purposes of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). Any person who receives income directly or indirectly derived from a \"pattern\" of such racketeering activity (generally, two or more offensive acts within a ten-year period) and who uses or invests any part of that income in the acquisition, establishment, or operation of any enterprise engaged in (or affecting) interstate or foreign commerce may be punished by up to twenty years in prison.\n\nBankruptcy crimes are prosecuted by the United States Attorney, typically after a reference from the United States Trustee, the case trustee, or a bankruptcy judge.\n\nBankruptcy fraud can also sometimes lead to criminal prosecution in state courts, under the charge of theft of the goods or services obtained by the debtor for which payment, in whole or in part, was evaded by the fraudulent bankruptcy filing.\n\nOn January 23, 2006, the Supreme Court, in \"Central Virginia Community College v. Katz\", declined to apply state sovereign immunity from \"Seminole Tribe v. Florida\", to defeat a trustee's action under to recover preferential transfers made by a debtor to a state agency. The Court ruled that Article I, section 8, clause 4 of the U.S. Constitution (empowering Congress to establish uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcy) abrogates the state's sovereign immunity in suits to recover preferential payments.\n\nIn 2008, there were 1,117,771 bankruptcy filings in the United States courts. Of those, 744,424 were chapter 7 bankruptcies, while 362,762 were chapter 13.\n\nPersonal bankruptcies may be caused by a number of factors. In 2008, over 96% of all bankruptcy filings were non-business filings, and of those, approximately two-thirds were chapter 7 cases.\n\nAlthough the individual causes of bankruptcy are complex and multifaceted, the majority of personal bankruptcies involve substantial medical bills.\nPersonal bankruptcies are typically filed under Chapter 7 or Chapter 13. Personal Chapter 11 bankruptcies are relatively rare.\nThe American Journal of Medicine says over 3 out of 5 personal bankruptcies are due to medical debt.\n\nCorporate bankruptcy can arise as a result of two broad categories failure—business failure or financial distress. Business failure stems from a critical flaw in the company's business model that prohibits it from producing the necessary level of profit to justify its capital investment. Conversely, financial distress stems from a critical flaw in the way the company is financed, or its capital structure. Continued financial distress leads to either technical insolvency (assets outweigh liabilities, but the firm is unable to meet current obligations) or “bankruptcy” (liabilities outweigh assets, and the firm has a negative net worth). A company experiencing business failure can stay off bankruptcy as long as it has access to funding; conversely, a company that is experiencing financial failure will be pushed into bankruptcy regardless of the soundness of its business model. The actual causes of corporate bankruptcies are difficult to establish, due to the compounding effects of external (macroeconomic, industry) and internal (business or financial) factors. However, some studies have indicated that financial leverage and working capital mismanagement are likely two of the major causes of corporate failure and bankruptcy in the U.S.\n\nThe largest bankruptcy in U.S. history occurred on September 15, 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for Chapter 11 protection with more than $639 billion in assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "22513057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22513057", "title": "Beninese constitutional referendum, 1990", "text": "Beninese constitutional referendum, 1990\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Benin on 2 December 1990. The main issues were changing the political system to a multi-party system, with a secondary issue as to whether there should be age limits for the President. The referendum passed with 93.2% of voters approving the change to a multi-party system and 73.3% in favour of age limits.\n"}
{"id": "5551560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5551560", "title": "Biotic material", "text": "Biotic material\n\nBiotic material or biological derived material is any material that originates from living organisms. Most such materials contain carbon and are capable of decay.\n\nThe earliest life on Earth arose at least 3.5 billion years ago. Earlier physical evidences of life include graphite, a biogenic substance, in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks discovered in southwestern Greenland, as well as, \"remains of biotic life\" found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia. Earth's biodiversity has expanded continually except when interrupted by mass extinctions. Although scholars estimate that over 99 percent of all species of life (over five billion) that ever lived on Earth are extinct, there are still an estimated 10–14 million extant species, of which about 1.2 million have been documented and over 86% have not yet been described.\n\nExamples of biotic materials are wood, straw, humus, manure, bark, crude oil, cotton, spider silk, chitin, fibrin, and bone.\n\nThe use of biotic materials, and processed biotic materials (bio-based material) as alternative natural materials, over synthetics is popular with those who are environmentally conscious because such materials are usually biodegradable, renewable, and the processing is commonly understood and has minimal environmental impact. However, not all biotic materials are used in an environmentally friendly way, such as those that require high levels of processing, are harvested unsustainably, or are used to produce carbon emissions.\n\nWhen the source of the recently living material has little importance to the product produced, such as in the production of biofuels, biotic material is simply called biomass. Many fuel sources may have biological sources, and may be divided roughly into fossil fuels, and biofuel.\n\nIn soil science, biotic material is often referred to as \"organic matter\". Biotic materials in soil include glomalin, Dopplerite and humic acid. Some biotic material may not be considered to be organic matter if it is low in organic compounds, such as a clam's shell, which is an essential component of the living organism, but contains little organic carbon.\n\nExamples of the use of biotic materials include:\n"}
{"id": "23529158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23529158", "title": "Blasphemy law in the United States", "text": "Blasphemy law in the United States\n\nIn the 20th century, the United States began to invalidate laws against blasphemy which had been on the books since before the founding of the nation, or prosecutions on that ground, as it was decided it violated the American Constitution. The First Amendment to the United States Constitution provides \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press...\" While there are no federal laws which forbid \"religious vilification\" or \"religious insult\" or \"hate speech\", some states have blasphemy statutes.\n\nMassachusetts, Michigan, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Wyoming, and Pennsylvania have laws that make reference to blasphemy. Some US states still have blasphemy laws on the books from the founding days. For example, Chapter 272 of the Massachusetts General Laws – a provision based on a similar colonial-era Massachusetts Bay statute enacted in 1697 – states:\nThe history of Maryland's blasphemy statutes suggests that even into the 1930s, the First Amendment was not recognized as preventing states from passing such laws. An 1879 codification of Maryland statutes prohibited blasphemy: \n\nAccording to the marginalia, this statute was adopted in 1819, and a similar law dates back to 1723. In 1904, the statute was still on the books at \nArt. 27, sec. 20, unaltered in text. As late as 1939, this statute was still the law of Maryland. But in 1972, in \"Maryland v. Irving K. West\", the Maryland Court of Appeals (the state's highest court) declared the blasphemy law unconstitutional. This law was still on the books however at least as late as 2003.\n\nPennsylvania enacted a law against blasphemy in 1977. In the fall of 2007, George Kalman sent the completed forms for incorporating a company to the Pennsylvania Department of State. Kalman wanted to incorporate a movie-production company which he called \"I Choose Hell Productions, LLC\". A week later, Kalman received a notice from the Pennsylvania Department of State which informed him that his forms could not be accepted because a business name \"may not contain words that constitute blasphemy, profane cursing or swearing or that profane the Lord's name\". In February 2009, Kalman filed suit to have the provision against blasphemy struck down as unconstitutional. On June 30, 2010, U.S. District Judge Michael M. Bayslon of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in a 68-page Opinion, ruled in favor of Kalman, finding that Pennsylvania's blasphemy statute violated both the Establishment Clause and the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nMaine's law reads as follows: \nThe last person to be jailed in the United States for blasphemy was Abner Kneeland in 1838 (a Massachusetts case: \"Commonwealth v. Kneeland\"). The Kneeland case preceded the ratification (1868) of the 14th Amendment, which incorporated the Bill of Rights and made it apply to the states and not just to the federal government. From 1925, the Supreme Court applied the Bill of Rights to all states.\n\nIn 1921 Lithuanian-American Michael X. Mockus was convicted in Maine. He appealed to the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine on March 25, 1921 in State v. Mockus and lost the appeal.\n\nIn February 1926 Lithuanian-American Communist Anthony Bimba was charged in Brockton, Massachusetts with blasphemy under a law passed during the time of the Salem Witch Trials more than two centuries earlier, as well as sedition. A widely publicized week-long trial followed, during which Bimba's attorney likened atheism to religious belief and maintained that individuals had a right under the United States constitution to believe or disbelieve in the existence of a God. Bimba was ultimately found not guilty of blasphemy but convicted of sedition, for which he was fined $100.\n\nThe last U.S. \"conviction\" for blasphemy was of atheist activist Charles Lee Smith. In 1928 he rented a storefront in Little Rock, Arkansas, and gave out free atheist literature there. The sign in the window read: \"Evolution Is True. The Bible's a Lie. God's a Ghost.\" For this he was charged with violating the city ordinance against blasphemy. Because he was an atheist and therefore could not swear the court's religious oath to tell the truth, he was not permitted to testify in his own defense. The judge then dismissed the original charge, replacing it with one of distributing obscene, slanderous, or scurrilous literature. Smith was convicted, fined $25, and served most of a twenty-six-day jail sentence. His high-profile fast while behind bars drew national media attention. Upon his release, he immediately resumed his atheist activities, was again charged with blasphemy, and this time the charge held. In his trial he was again denied the right to testify and was sentenced to ninety days in jail and a fine of $100. Released on $1,000 bail, Smith appealed the verdict. The case then dragged on for several years until it was finally dismissed.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court in \"Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson\", 343 U.S. 495 (1952) held that the New York State blasphemy law was an unconstitutional prior restraint on freedom of speech. The court stated that \"It is not the business of government in our nation to suppress real or imagined attacks upon a particular religious doctrine, whether they appear in publications, speeches or motion pictures.\"\n"}
{"id": "11464500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11464500", "title": "Brandy v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission", "text": "Brandy v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission\n\nBrandy v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (HREOC) was a case before the High Court of Australia determining that the HREOC could not validly exercise judicial power. The High Court maintained a firm position against attempts to confer judicial powers upon non-judicial bodies.\n\nUp until 1992, Australia's Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, in response to complaints of racial discrimination lodged in accordance with the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) (the RDA), was able to make determinations. These were voluntary, and in the event complainants chose not to comply with them, there was no mechanism for enforcement. The only option available to complainants was to make an application to the Federal Court to have the matter re-heard.\n\nIn 1988 Wilcox J criticised this process, in his judgment in \"Maynard v Neilson\", as being costly and unnecessarily repetitive. This prompted the federal government to amend the RDA to rectify the problem. The sections which these amendments introduced into Part III of the RDA allowed for determinations made by the HREOC to be registered with the Federal Court. These determinations, upon registration, would have the effect of being an order made by the Federal Court, unless a respondent applied for a review.\n\nIn the \"Brandy\" case, Harry Brandy and John Bell were both officers of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC). Bell lodged a complaint against Brandy and ATSIC with the HREOC alleging contraventions to the RDA. The HREOC conducted an inquiry and handed down a determination that both Brandy and ATSIC were to pay compensation to Bell and to apologise to him. This determination was registered with the Federal Court, prompting Brandy to firstly seek a review and secondly to make an application to the High Court for the present case.\n\nThe question came before the Full Court as a result of a case stated by Gaudron J, whether \"In consequence of the amendments embodied in the Sex Discrimination and other Legislation Amendment Act 1992 and/or the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 as they affect the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 are any, and if so which, of the provisions of Part III of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 invalid?\"\n\nA unanimous decision was returned by the High Court through two judgments, one by Mason CJ, Brennan and Toohey JJ, the other by Deane, Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ. The court found that sections 25ZAB, 25ZAC and 25ZAC of the RDA which had been implemented by the two prior mentioned amendments were invalid. Deane, Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ also declared section 25ZAA to be invalid. The other judges did not consider this issue.\n\nThis decision was formulated from the consideration of the definition of judicial power, the starting point of which was noted to be the judgment of Griffith CJ in the case of \"Huddart, Parker & Co Pty Ltd v Moorehead\". This case encapsulated a definition of judicial power which included binding and authoritative decisions of controversies between subjects by Chapter III courts of the Constitution.\n\nThe key factor in the decision of the sections being deemed invalid was the enforceability of the determinations. Mason CJ, Brennan and Toohey JJ stated that \"if it were not for the provisions providing the registration and enforcement of the Commission's determinations, it would be plain that the Commission does not exercise judicial power\". Thus, prior to the inclusion of the amendments, the HREOC was not exercising judicial power upon making determinations with regards to complaints of discrimination. By allowing determinations to be registered with the Federal Court to effectively become as an order from that court was to make the determinations enforceable. This was thought by the court to be an exercise of judicial power by a body which could not be vested with such power. This is because the HREOC was not a court in accordance with sections 71 and 72 of the Constitution and thus not a Chapter III court able of exercising judicial power.\n\nThe case of Brandy is constitutionally significant firstly because its decision re-emphasises the limited number of bodies which are permitted to exercise judicial power. The decision of Brandy emphasised the fact that non-judicial tribunals and other administrative bodies which did not constitute a Chapter III court of the constitution could not exercise judicial power. This had a twofold effect in that it halted the creation of a number of non-judicial bodies which were to be empowered with such responsibilities, as well as pre-empting the creation of another Chapter III court to manage claims of this nature, which is today known as the Federal Circuit Court of Australia. The decision did have drawbacks, as the problem of inefficiency and high costs, which prompted the creation of the amendment legislation for the RDA in the first place, is still apparent. However, it seems justified as reallocating the courts power to determine such disputes and vesting it in a tribunal raises questions of fairness.\n\nThe final point of constitutional significance arising from the case of \"Brandy\" is the formulation of four guidelines in the Deane, Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ judgment which allow a court to determine whether or not judicial power is being exercised. The four points are:\n\nThese reiterate what are considered to be key characteristics (or \"indicia\") of judicial power. However, these are no necessarily exhaustive, but are definitely a good indicator of judicial power being exercised.\n"}
{"id": "39995353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39995353", "title": "Brown v. United States (1921)", "text": "Brown v. United States (1921)\n\nBrown v. United States, 256 U.S. 335 (1921), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that if a person is attacked, and that person reasonably believes that he is in immediate danger of death or grievous bodily injury, he has no duty to retreat and may stand his ground and, if he kills his attacker, he has not exceeded the bounds of lawful self-defense.\n\nBrown, the petitioner, and Hermes, the individual killed, had a previous history. Evidence indicated that Hermes assaulted Brown with a knife on two prior occasions and that Hermes threatened that the next time one of them would be taken away in a black box. Given this history, Brown took a handgun with him while supervising excavation work for a post office and put it nearby. Hermes arrived and, according to Brown, came at him with a knife. Brown retreated approximately twenty to twenty-five feet to where he left the pistol and, with Hermes striking at Brown, fired four shots, killing Hermes.\n\nA jury convicted Brown of second degree murder after being instructed by the court that, when considering self-defense, the individual assaulted has a duty to retreat as long as retreat is open to him and would not be dangerous to his person.\n\nOn appeal, the Supreme Court disagreed and reversed the lower court’s conviction holding “that if a man reasonably believes that he is in immediate danger of death or grievous bodily harm from his assailant he may stand his ground and that if he kills him he has not exceed the bounds of lawful self-defense.” In writing the opinion, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes stated that “Detached reflection cannot be demanded in the presence of an uplifted knife. Therefore, in this Court, at least, it is not a condition of immunity that one in that situation should pause to consider whether a reasonable man might not think it possible to fly with safety or to disable his assailant rather than to kill him.” \n\nIn reviewing the lower court’s decision, Justice Holmes noted that there was evidence that Brown fired his last shot after Hermes went down. Brown testified in the lower court that this was an accidental discharge. The Court determined that a person need not lose a self-defense claim if a last shot followed closely to the others during the heat of conflict and if a person believed that he was fighting for his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "1137998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137998", "title": "Cambia (non-profit organization)", "text": "Cambia (non-profit organization)\n\nCambia is an Australian-based global non-profit social enterprise focusing on open science, biology, innovation system reform and intellectual property. Its projects include the Patent Lens, its successor The Lens, and the Biological Innovation for Open Society Initiative.\n\nCambia derives its name from the Spanish verb \"cambiar\", to change.\n\nCambia was established in 1992 by Richard Anthony Jefferson, a leading molecular biologist responsible for the invention of the GUS reporter system, with substantial early participation by Steven G Hughes, Kate J. Wilson, Andrzej Kilian, Chris A. Fields and Sujata Lakhani. Jefferson describes his vision to found a non-profit organisation in \"Innovations\", to provide more efficient and effective tools to solve the problems of agriculture and society.\n\nIn 1992, Cambia relocated to Canberra, Australia from The Netherlands, to oversee and troubleshoot the Rockefeller Foundation's rice biotechnology network in Asia. During this time, Jefferson, Wilson and the growing Cambia team visited hundreds of laboratories to help develop, improve, and apply biotechnology capabilities, particularly pertaining to rice. Cambia offered scientific courses and workshops, and increasing assistance in Intellectual Property management. Cambia's ethic was influenced by Jefferson's early years in enabling technology invention and distribution, but greatly refined through increasing awareness of socially and scientifically complex systems and using new thinking about biological evolution (including the Hologenome Theory of Evolution) as models for institution building and collaboration.\n\nCambia became one of the first social enterprises to use a hybrid licensing model to fund its public good activities. By selectively patenting important technologies, then creating tiered licensing models for their use, Cambia was able to ensure all parties fair access, but larger licensees would be required to pay more for their non-exclusive use, thus subsidising new developments and distribution and support to less wealthy users, including small enterprises and the public sector in the developing world. This model - developed also by the social entrepreneur David Green for universal access to eye care - is now becoming a pillar of social enterprise function.\n\nOver time Cambia's focus moved away from biotechnology and towards innovation systems and Intellectual Property. The Patent Lens and its successor The Lens are now the primary focus of Cambia. Cambia's goal has always been to enable and democratise innovation and their move towards free and open tools that help people understand intellectual property landscapes is a continuation of those values. In this way they have changed from a wet-science research institute into a strategic system-changing social enterprise.\n\nCambia's work to freely distribute scientific tools and techniques gave rise to the Biological Open Source (BiOS) Initiative in 2005. Through an open-source biotechnology license and Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) developed in 2005-2007, BiOS sought to establish freedom to operate for innovators by providing and exemplifying legal instruments by which innovators could collaboratively use intellectual property protection as a means to share and jointly improve technology for wider utility. BiOS was built on the back of Jefferson's invention of the GUS-based reporter system and the creation of TransBacter, a work-around for the creation of transgenic plants bypassing the highly patented Agrobacterium genus.\n\nAnother of Cambia's projects was the development in 2001 by then Chief Scientist Andrzej Kilian of Diversity Arrays Technology, a solid state sequence agnostic genotyping technology that was spun off into a company, DArT, Pty Ltd to perform agricultural genotyping services to the plant breeding community.\n\nA principal current project of Cambia is the free full-text online patent search and exploration facility and knowledge resource, The Lens (previously the Patent Lens). Launched in 2000 with funding from the Rockefeller Foundation as a US agricultural patent search facility, and substantially expanded in 2005-2007 to encompass patent documents from multiple jurisdictions and all domains, and information on the linkages between patent applications and the status of granted patents, the Patent Lens allowed free searching of almost 10 million full-text patent documents. It was distinguished as being the only not-for-profit facility of its kind, with international coverage and integrated links to non-patent literature. The Lens was launched in 2013 as the successor to the Patent Lens, making strides in the visual presentation of patent analysis and workspace management; it is the only global patent site with fully open, shareable, annotatable and re-usable data collections.\n\nIt also features an open biological patent facility, PatSeq, led by Professor Osmat Jefferson, with many advanced tools for searching and analysing biological sequences found in patents, to render gene patenting more transparent. The facility has mapped sequences disclosed in gene patents onto the genomes of humans, mice, maize, rice, soybean and others.\n\nCambia is social enterprise, and is a registered Non-Governmental Organisation with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and a registered observer with the World Intellectual Property Organization. Within Australia, Cambia is registered with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) as a not-for-profit company limited by guarantee.\n\nCambia’s governance is overseen by a Board of Directors, according to its constitution.\n\nAs of July 2012, Cambia now operates principally from headquarters in Canberra, ACT at the NICTA (National ICT Australia) facility, with some staff based in Brisbane, Australia, at the Queensland University of Technology. Before its move to Brisbane in 2008, where it operated for four years, Cambia was located on the Black Mountain research campus of the CSIRO. Its glasshouse facilities were housed at the Australian National University campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "7090378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090378", "title": "Canadian Private Copying Collective", "text": "Canadian Private Copying Collective\n\nThe Canadian Private Copying Collective is a Canadian non-profit/non-government organization created in 1999 to collect and distribute private copying royalties. The organization represents songwriters, recording artists, music publishers and recording companies. Issues are brought before the Copyright Board of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "5301890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301890", "title": "Cancún Declaration", "text": "Cancún Declaration\n\nCancún Declaration may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25855753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855753", "title": "Cape Verde–Senegal Maritime Delimitation Treaty", "text": "Cape Verde–Senegal Maritime Delimitation Treaty\n\nThe Cape Verde – Senegal Maritime Delimitation Treaty is a treaty between Cape Verde and Senegal in which the two states agreed to the delimitation of their maritime boundary.\n\nThe treaty was signed on February 17, 1993. The boundary set out by the text of the treaty identifies a line which trends north-south for approximately 150 nm. in seven maritime segments defined by eight specific coordinate points. The boundary lies approximately 9 nm. to 20 nm. east of an equidistant line between the two territories.\n\nThe official name for the treaty is \"Treaty on the Delimitation of the Maritime Frontier between the Republic of Cape Verde and the Republic of Senegal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29399289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29399289", "title": "Chadian constitutional referendum, 1989", "text": "Chadian constitutional referendum, 1989\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Chad on 10 December 1989. The new constitution made the country a one-party state with the National Union for Independence and Revolution as the sole legal party, as well as confirming Hissène Habré, who had come to power in a 1982 coup, as president. It also provided for a presidential republic with a unicameral National Assembly. It was passed by 99.9% of voters, with a turnout of 93%.\n"}
{"id": "49870431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49870431", "title": "Child access prevention law", "text": "Child access prevention law\n\nA child access prevention law (often abbreviated CAP law; also sometimes called a safe storage law) makes it illegal for an adult to keep a gun in a place and manner so that a child can easily access and fire it. Proponents of these laws, such as the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, argue that they are effective at reducing accidental gun deaths among children. The National Rifle Association has lobbied against such laws, arguing that they are ineffective and infringe on the rights of gun owners to protect their homes.\n\nAs of 2013, 27 states in the United States, as well as the District of Columbia, had enacted a CAP law. In 2013, California governor Jerry Brown signed the Firearm Safe and Responsible Access Act, one of the strictest CAP laws in the United States, into law.\n\nA 1997 study found that CAP laws were associated with a 23% decrease in accidental shooting deaths among children younger than 15 years old. A 2000 study found that Florida's CAP law appeared to have \"significantly reduced unintentional firearm deaths to children,\" but that the similar laws that existed in 14 other states did not seem to have such an effect. At the time, only three states in the U.S., including Florida, allowed those who violated their state's CAP law to be prosecuted on felony charges. A 2004 study found that CAP laws were associated with a \"modest reduction in suicide rates among youth aged 14 to 17 years.\" A 2006 study found that states with CAP laws experienced faster declines in accidental child firearm deaths than states without such laws. A 2015 study found that these laws have no significant impact on unintentional gun deaths, but that states with such laws had lower rates of youth suicide. Some studies have also found that CAP laws are associated with lower rates of nonfatal gun injuries among children under the age of 18.\n\nA survey published by Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health estimated that 54% of gun owners in the United States had unsafe storage of guns. Additionally, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health has estimated that some 380,000 guns are stolen annually from gun owners in the United States. In a separate study, the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives estimated that 18,394 guns were lost of stolen by licensed gun retailers.\n\nCAP laws, along with other strict firearm laws, are also associated with lower rates of unsafe gun storage among parents of preschool-age children. These laws are not always applied whenever they could be, and sometimes minors are charged instead. A 2018 National Bureau of Economic Research paper found that CAP laws were associated with a 19 percent reduction in juvenile firearm-related homicides (while having no association with firearm-related homicides committed by adults or with non-firearm-related homicides committed by juveniles). In contrast, a 2016 study found that these CAP laws were ineffective.\n\nMarion Hammer, the National Rifle Association (NRA) lobbyist who promoted the stand-your-ground law, created the Eddie Eagle GunSafe program in the late 1980s as a \"superior alternative to negligent storage legislation, or laws meant to punish adults when children shoot themselves or someone else with an unsecured gun.\" By 2016, according to the NRA, who \"promotes the program to elementary schools around the country, and pushes state legislatures to pass laws that require schools to adopt the lesson\", 28 million children had been gone through the Eddie Eagle program. In 2016, a NRA lobbyist testified against a safe storage bill in Tennessee, saying that the Eddie Eagle program was the best way \"to reduce firearm-related accidents\" regarding children.\n"}
{"id": "3657045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3657045", "title": "Consulate of the Sea", "text": "Consulate of the Sea\n\nThe Consulate of the Sea (; ) was a quasi-judicial body set up in the Crown of Aragon, later to spread throughout the Mediterranean basin, to administer maritime and commercial law. The term may also refer to a celebrated collection of maritime customs and ordinances in Catalan language, also known in English as \"The Customs of the Sea\", compiled over the 14th and 15th centuries and published at Valencia in or before 1494.\n\nIn the 21st century, the Catalan term \"Consolat de mar\" is today used for a commercial arbitration service operated by the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce, and also for a series of trade-promotion offices operated by the city of Barcelona.\n\nThe Catalan institution can be traced to the grant of the \"Carta Consular\" to the city of Barcelona by James I of Aragon in 1258. This gave Barcelona merchants the right to settle their commercial disputes without interference from the royal courts: in return, the king received much needed financial support for his wars of expansion. Mercantile Law (\"ius mercadorium\") was becoming established at the same time through much of Europe, and similar bodies had already been established in Messina (first third of the 13th century) and Genoa (1250).\n\nAs the territories of the Crown of Aragon expanded, it was customary to establish new Consulates of the Sea in the major ports. One of the earliest was in Valencia (1283), where the charter of Peter III of Aragon makes it clear that disputes are to be settled \"according to maritime customs, as these are accepted in Barcelona.\"\n\nThe full title in Catalan is \"Les costums marítimes de Barcelona universalment conegudes per Llibre del Consolat de mar\", or \"The maritime customs of Barcelona universally known as the Book of the Consulate of the Sea\". The earliest extant printed edition of the work (Barcelona, 1494) is without a title-page or frontispiece, but it is described by the above-mentioned title in the epistle dedicatory prefixed to the table of contents. The only known copy of this edition (as of 1911) is preserved in the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris. The epistle dedicatory states that the work is an amended version of the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\", compiled by Francis Celelles with the assistance of numerous shipmasters and merchants well versed in maritime affairs.\n\nAccording to a statement made by Capmany in his \"Codigo de los costumbras maritimas de Barcelona\", published at Madrid in 1791, there was extant to his knowledge an older edition, printed in semi-Gothic characters, which he believed to be of a date prior to 1484.\n\nThere are, however, two Catalan manuscripts preserved in the Bibliothèque nationale de France, the earliest of which, being \"MS. Espagnol 124\", contains the two first treatises which are printed in the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" of 1494, and which are the most ancient portion of its contents, written in a hand of the 14th century, on paper of that century. The subsequent parts of this manuscript are on paper of the 15th century, but there is no document of a date more recent than 1436. The later of the two manuscripts, being \"MS. Espagnol 56\", is written throughout on paper of the 15th century, and in a hand of that century, and it purports, from a certificate on the face of the last leaf, to have been executed under the superintendence of Peter Thomas, a notary public, and the scribe of the Consulate of the Sea at Barcelona.\n\nThe edition of 1494 contains, in the first place, a code of procedure issued by the kings of Aragon for the guidance of the courts of the consuls of the sea, in the second place, a collection of ancient customs of the sea, and thirdly, a body of rules for the government of cruisers of war. A colophon at the end of these ordinances informs the reader that the book commonly called the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" ends here; after which there follows a document known by the title of \"The Acceptations\", which purports to record that the previous chapters and ordinances had been approved by the \"Roman\" people in 1075, and by various princes and peoples in the 12th and 13th centuries: this is generally regarded as of no historical value. The paging of the edition of 1494 ceases with this document, at the end of which is the printer's colophon, reciting that the work was completed on 14 July 1494, at Barcelona, by Pere Posa, priest and printer.\n\nThe remainder of the volume consists of what may be regarded as an appendix to the original \"Book of the Consulate\". This appendix contains various maritime ordinances of the kings of Aragon and of the councillors of the city of Barcelona, ranging over a period from 1271 to 1493. It is printed apparently in the same type with the preceding part of the volume. The original \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\", coupled with this appendix, circulated in Europe under the title, \"The Consulate of the Sea\", and in the 16th century was translated into the Castilian, the Italian, and the French languages. The Italian translation, printed at Venice c. 1549 by Jean Baptista Pedrezano, was the version that obtained the largest circulation in the north of Europe, and led many jurists to suppose the work to have been of Italian origin. In the next century, the work was translated into Dutch by Westerven, and into German by Engelbrecht, and it is also said to have been translated into Latin. An excellent translation into French of \"The Customs of the Sea\", which are the most valuable portion of the \"Book of the Consulate\", was published by Pardessus in the second volume of his \"Collection des lois maritimes\" (Paris, 1834), under the title of \"La Compilation connue sous le nom do consulat de la mer\". See introduction, by Sir Travers Twiss, to the \"Black Book of the Admiralty\" (London, 1874), which in the appendix to vol. iii, contains his translation of \"The Customs of the Sea\", with the Catalan text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19178543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19178543", "title": "Contempt toward officials", "text": "Contempt toward officials\n\nContempt towards officials is addressed in the Punitive articles, specifically Article 88 of the U.S. Uniform Code of Military Justice in the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM), United States (2008 Edition) as follows:\n\n\nThe official or legislature against whom the words are used must be occupying one of the offices or be one of the legislatures named in Article 88 at the time of the offense. Neither \"Congress\" nor \"legislature\" includes its members individually. \"Governor\" does not include \"lieutenant governor.\" It is immaterial whether the words are used against the official in an official or private capacity. If not personally contemptuous, adverse criticism of one of the officials or legislatures named in the article in the course of a political discussion, even though emphatically expressed, may not be charged as a violation of the article.\n\nSimilarly, expressions of opinion made in a purely private conversation should not ordinarily be charged. Giving broad circulation to a written publication containing contemptuous words of the kind made punishable by this article, or the utterance of contemptuous words of this kind in the presence of military subordinates, aggravates the offense. Unlike civilian legislation covering defamation, the truth or falsity of the statements is immaterial.\n\nArticle 80—attempts\n\nDismissal, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and confinement for 1 year.\n\n\"This article incorporates text from Manual for Courts-Martial, a public domain work of the United States Government.\"\n"}
{"id": "36254170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36254170", "title": "Criminal Appeal Reports", "text": "Criminal Appeal Reports\n\nThe Criminal Appeal Reports are a series of law reports of decisions of the Court of Criminal Appeal, the criminal division of the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords from 15 May 1908 onwards.\n\nThey are published by Sweet & Maxwell. Publication began in 1909. As of 2008, they were published ten times each year.\n\nFor the purpose of citation, their name may be abbreviated to \"Cr App R\", or to \"CAR\". \n\nGlanville Williams criticised the layout of the index in each volume of these reports.\n\nVolume 1 contains, in addition to the reports, a copy of the Criminal Appeal Act 1907, sections 9(5) and (6) of the Costs in Criminal Cases Act 1908, the Criminal Appeal (Amendment) Act 1908, section 11 of the Prevention of Crime Act 1908 and section 99(6) of the Children Act 1908.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36454328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36454328", "title": "Decree of the President of Russia", "text": "Decree of the President of Russia\n\nA Decree of the President of the Russian Federation (; \"Ukaz Prezidenta Rossiyskoy Federatsii\") or Executive Order (Decree) of the President of Russia is a legal act (\"ukase\") with the status of a by-law made by the Russian president.\n\nAs normative legal acts, such \"ukazes\" have the status of by-laws in the hierarchy of legal acts (along with Decrees of the Government of the Russian Federation and instructions and directions of other officials). Presidential decrees may not alter existing laws of higher precedence - , the Constitution of Russia, Federal Constitutional Laws, Federal Laws and laws of Russian regions - and may be superseded by any of these laws. For example, because of Article 15 of the Constitution of Russia, the European Convention on Human Rights, as an international document, has higher status than any Russian law or presidential executive order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39721994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39721994", "title": "Digitale Gesellschaft", "text": "Digitale Gesellschaft\n\nDigitale Gesellschaft (literally, \"Digital Society\") is a German registered association founded in 2010, that is committed to civil rights and consumer protection in terms of internet policy.\n\nThe founding members of the association are , , Falk Steiner, Matthias Mehldau, Andre Meister, Markus Reuter, , , and John Weitzmann.\n\nBenjamin Bergemann is a spokesman.\n\nOne of the aims of the interest group is to build a campaign infrastructure, and also to reach people who are not internet-savvy. Their founder, Beckedahl stated that \"more effective advocacy toward politics and economy\" is also a part of their mission.\n\nAs of May 2012, the group has approximately thirty members. According to Beckedahl, the small number of full members is necessary to build an infrastructure before opening up to more people.\n\nThe group has worked on topics such as ACTA, Open government, open data, information privacy, telecommunications data retention, copyright, and net neutrality.\n\nIn 2013, they led a demonstration at Checkpoint Charlie, during Barack Obama's visit, against the NSA surveillance program PRISM.\n\n"}
{"id": "33882920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33882920", "title": "Dorothea S. Clarke Professor of Feminist Jurisprudence", "text": "Dorothea S. Clarke Professor of Feminist Jurisprudence\n\nThe Dorothea S. Clarke Professorship of Feminist Jurisprudence was founded at Cornell Law School in 1997, and is the first endowed chair in feminist jurisprudence at a law school in the United States. The professorship is one of three named professorships at Cornell endowed by Exxon executive Jack G. Clarke and Dorothea S. Clarke. The professorship is intended for \"a law professor who has achieved distinction in a field related to women and the law, such as civil rights, family law, and feminist jurisprudence.\" The first holder of the chair, Martha Fineman, took office in 1999.\n\nThe professorship has been held by\n\nThe other professorships endowed by Jack G. Clarke and Dorothea S. Clarke are the Jack G. Clarke Professor of Far East Legal Studies and the Jack G. Clarke Professor of International and Comparative Law.\n"}
{"id": "53700882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53700882", "title": "Earl Jinkinson", "text": "Earl Jinkinson\n\nEarl Alfred Jinkinson (d. November 30, 1995 in Tryon, North Carolina) was an American antitrust lawyer. \nJinkinson received his law degree from Stetson University, after which he became an FBI agent in 1941. He worked for the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) as chief of their antitrust division in Jacksonville, Florida from 1948 to 1952, whereupon he began working at their Chicago division. He later became the chief of this anti-trust division. While in charge of the DOJ's Chicago antitrust office, he led cases against Seeburg Corporation and the \"Kansas City Star\". He later joined Winston & Strawn, where he went on to become a senior partner. While there, he handled antitrust cases including one involving the Milwaukee Braves, in which he served as lead counsel. He retired from Winston & Strawn in 1988.\nJinkinson was married to Virginia Jinkinson (née Watson) until his death in 1995. They had two daughters: Georgia Bonesteel and Jill Moore.\n"}
{"id": "28064884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28064884", "title": "Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents", "text": "Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents is a large collection of non-litigious legal forms and precedents published by LexisNexis UK.\n\nThe encyclopaedia is available in hard copy, on a searchable online database, and on CD-ROM. It currently consists of 90+ volumes which are subject to constant alteration, as volumes are regularly revised and reissued to reflect changes in the law. Subscribers are provided with frequent updates in the form of modifications to the online database, and a quarterly looseleaf service.\n\nThe encyclopaedia is most often subscribed to and utilised by legal practices and academic institutions.\n\nThe First Edition was published in 17 volumes from 1902 to 1910. The Second Edition was published in 20 volumes in 1925. The Third Edition was published in 20 volumes from 1946 to 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "8401070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8401070", "title": "Implied assertion", "text": "Implied assertion\n\nIn the law of evidence, an implied assertion is a statement or conduct that implies a side issue surrounding certain admissible facts which have not necessarily been complied with the rules of relevance. There is varying opinion of whether hearsay evidence of implied assertions should be admissible in court to prove the issue within contents. While they are considered hearsay, they are generally considered to some extent unreliable than regular statements which are less easy to be fabricated.\n\nIn R v Sukadeve Singh [2006] EWCA Crim. 660, [2006] 2 Cr.App.R 12, Rose LJ giving the judgment of the court said this at paragraph 14: \n\nIn Sukadeve Singh various telephone entries were held not to be a matter stated within section 115 but to be implied assertions which were admissible because they were no longer hearsay.\n"}
{"id": "38407198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38407198", "title": "Inter-American Convention on Forced Disappearance of Persons", "text": "Inter-American Convention on Forced Disappearance of Persons\n\nThe Inter-American Convention on The Forced Disappearance of Persons is a treaty of the Organization of American States (OAS) intended to combat the forced disappearance of persons. The Convention was adopted in 1994. Ratification is open to all members of the OAS and , the convention has been ratified by 15 states. Violations of the convention can be brought to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.\n\n, the only state to have signed the convention but not ratified it is Nicaragua.\n\n"}
{"id": "1529898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529898", "title": "International Opium Commission", "text": "International Opium Commission\n\nThe International Opium Commission was a meeting convened in 1909 in Shanghai that represented one of the first steps toward international drug prohibition. Dr. Hamilton Wright and Episcopal Bishop Charles Henry Brent headed the U.S. delegation. According to Release, \"The formal designation of the meeting as 'commission' reflects the fact that the United States had been unsuccessful in its attempts to convene a 'conference': this latter status would have conferred upon the meeting the power to draft regulations to which signatory states would be bound by international law\". The Commission was only authorized to make recommendations.\n\nThe meeting united the attending nations behind the cause of opium prohibition, leading to the 1912 International Opium Convention.\n\nUK Drugs and UK Drug Laws: 1900-1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "23746429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23746429", "title": "Jade Treaty", "text": "Jade Treaty\n\nThe Jade Treaty () of 20 July 1853 between Kingdom of Prussia and Grand Duchy of Oldenburg provided for the handover of 340 hectares of Oldenburg territory at what is now Wilhelmshaven, Germany, on the western shore of the Jade Bight, a bay of the North Sea west of Bremerhaven. It was considered the best natural deep-water port in the German North Sea coast, and a good place for the naval base Prussia wished to build. The navy base built there became the nucleus of today's Wilhelmshaven. \n\nSince before 1848 Prince Adalbert of Prussia had worked to build a Prussian navy. During the First Schleswig War of 1848-51, Prussia had virtually no navy. Within a few days the Danish navy had destroyed German maritime commerce in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. By 1852 Prussia had started to expand its fleet and needed a good port on the North Sea, something they had not had since the Congress of Vienna. The Jade Bight area offered deep water, a good anchorage and no ice in winter. Oldenburg welcomed the idea of Prussia as a powerful ally. Also, they needed money to end the Bentinck succession dispute. From 1854 onward Prussia established the fortress, naval base and city of Wilhelmshaven, which would be useful in the Second Schleswig War of 1864.\n"}
{"id": "19390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19390", "title": "Money laundering", "text": "Money laundering\n\nMoney laundering is the act of concealing the transformation of profits from illegal activities and corruption into ostensibly \"legitimate\" assets. One problem of criminal activities is accounting for the proceeds without raising the suspicion of law enforcement agencies. Considerable time and effort may be put into strategies which enable the safe use of those proceeds without raising unwanted suspicion. Implementing such strategies is generally called money laundering. After money has been suitably laundered or \"cleaned\", it can be used in the mainstream economy for accumulation of wealth, such as by acquisitions of properties or legitimate businesses, or simply spent. Law enforcement agencies of many jurisdictions have set up sophisticated systems in an effort to detect suspicious transactions or activities, and many have set up international cooperative arrangements to assist each other in these endeavors.\nIn a number of legal and regulatory systems, the term \"money laundering\" has become conflated with other forms of financial and business crime, and is sometimes used more generally to include misuse of the financial system (involving things such as securities, digital currencies, credit cards, and traditional currency), including terrorism financing and evasion of international sanctions. Most anti-money laundering laws openly conflate money laundering (which is concerned with \"source\" of funds) with terrorism financing (which is concerned with \"destination\" of funds) when regulating the financial system.\n\nSome countries treat obfuscation of sources of money as also constituting money laundering, whether it is intentional or by merely using financial systems or services that do not identify or track sources or destinations. Other countries define money laundering in such a way as to include money from activity that \"would have been\" a crime in that country, even if the activity was legal where the actual conduct occurred.\n\nLaws against money laundering were created to use against organized crime during the period of Prohibition in the United States during the 1930s. Organized crime received a major boost from Prohibition and a large source of new funds that were obtained from illegal sales of alcohol. The successful prosecution of Al Capone on tax evasion brought in a new emphasis by the state and law enforcement agencies to track and confiscate money, but existing laws against tax evasion could not be used once gangsters started paying their taxes.\n\nIn the 1980s, the war on drugs led governments again to turn to money-laundering rules in an attempt to seize proceeds of drug crimes in order to catch the organizers and individuals running drug empires. It also had the benefit from a law enforcement point of view of turning rules of evidence upside down. Law enforcers normally have to prove an individual is guilty to get a conviction. But with money laundering laws, money can be confiscated and it is up to the individual to prove that the source of funds is legitimate if they want the funds back. This makes it much easier for law enforcement agencies and provides for much lower burdens of proof.\n\nThe September 11 attacks in 2001, which led to the Patriot Act in the U.S. and similar legislation worldwide, led to a new emphasis on money laundering laws to combat terrorism financing. The Group of Seven (G7) nations used the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering to put pressure on governments around the world to increase surveillance and monitoring of financial transactions and share this information between countries. Starting in 2002, governments around the world upgraded money laundering laws and surveillance and monitoring systems of financial transactions. Anti money laundering regulations have become a much larger burden for financial institutions and enforcement has stepped up significantly. During 2011–2015 a number of major banks faced ever-increasing fines for breaches of money laundering regulations. This included HSBC, which was fined $1.9 billion in December 2012, and BNP Paribas, which was fined $8.9 billion in July 2014 by the U.S. government. Many countries introduced or strengthened border controls on the amount of cash that can be carried and introduced central transaction reporting systems where all financial institutions have to report all financial transactions electronically. For example, in 2006, Australia set up the AUSTRAC system and required the reporting of all financial transactions.\n\n The conversion or transfer of property, the concealment or disguising of the nature of the proceeds, the acquisition, possession or use of property, knowing that these are derived from criminal activity and participate or assist the movement of funds to make the proceeds appear legitimate is money laundering.\n\nMoney obtained from certain crimes, such as extortion, insider trading, drug trafficking, and illegal gambling is \"dirty\" and needs to be \"cleaned\" to appear to have been derived from legal activities, so that banks and other financial institutions will deal with it without suspicion. Money can be laundered by many methods which vary in complexity and sophistication.\n\nMoney laundering involves three steps: The first involves introducing cash into the financial system by some means (\"placement\"); the second involves carrying out complex financial transactions to camouflage the illegal source of the cash (\"layering\"); and finally, acquiring wealth generated from the transactions of the illicit funds (\"integration\"). Some of these steps may be omitted, depending upon the circumstances. For example, non-cash proceeds that are already in the financial system would not need to be placed.\n\nAccording to the United States Treasury Department:\nMoney laundering can take several forms, although most methods can be categorized into one of a few types. These include \"bank methods, smurfing [also known as structuring], currency exchanges, and double-invoicing\".\n\n\nIn Latin America, money laundering is mainly linked to drug trafficking activities and to having connections with criminal activity, such as crimes that have to do with arms trafficking, human trafficking, extortion, blackmail, smuggling, and acts of corruption of people linked to governments, such as bribery, which are more common in Latin American countries. There is a relationship between corruption and money laundering in developing countries. The economic power of Latin America increases rapidly and without support, these fortunes being of illicit origin have the appearance of legally acquired profits. With regard to money laundering, the ultimate goal of the process is to integrate illicit capital into the general economy and transform it into licit goods and services. \n\nThe money laundering practice uses various channels to legalize everything achieved through illegal practices. As such, it has different techniques depending on the country where this illegal operation is going to be carried out:\n\n\nCasinos continue to attract organizations that deal with money laundering. Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, the Cayman Islands, Colombia, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela are considered high priority countries in the region, due to the strategies used by the washers.\n\nThe practice of money laundering, among other economic and financial crimes have been better in infiltrating into the economic and political structures of most developing countries therefore resulting to political instability and economic digression.\n\nMoney laundering is still a great concern for the financial services industry. About 50% of the money laundering incidents in Latin America were reported by organizations in the financial sector. According to PwC’s 2014 global economic crime survey in Latin America only 2.8% of respondents in Latin America claimed suffering Anti-Trust/Competition Law incidents, compared to 5.2% of respondents globally. \n\nIt has been shown that money laundering has an impact on the financial behavior and macroeconomic performance of the industrialized countries. In these countries the macroeconomic consequences of money laundering are transmitted through several channels. Thus, money laundering complicates the formulation of economic policies. It is assumed that the proceeds of criminal activities are laundered by means of the notes and coins in circulation of the monetary substitutes.\n\nThe laundering causes disproportionate changes in the relative prices of assets which implies that resources are allocated inefficiently; and, therefore may have negative implications for economic growth, apparently money laundering is associated with a lower economic growth.\n\nThe Office of National Drug Control Policy of the United States estimates that only in that country, sales of narcotic drugs represent about 57,000 millions of dollars annually and most of these transactions are made in cash.\n\nMoney laundering has been increasing. A key factor behind the growing money laundering is ineffective enforcement of money laundering laws locally. Perhaps because of the lack of importance that has been given to the subject, since the 21st century started, there was not jurisprudence regarding the laundering of money or assets, or the conversion or transfer of goods. Which is even worse, the laws of the Latin American countries have really not dealt with their study in a profound way, as it is an issue that concerns the whole world and is the subject of seminars, conferences and academic analysis in different regions of the planet. Now a new figure that is being called the Economic Criminal Law is being implemented, which should be implemented in modern societies, which has been inflicted enormous damage to the point of affecting the general economy of the states. Even though, developing countries have responded and continue to respond, through legislative measures, to the problem of money laundering, at national level, however, money launderers, have taken advantage of the lax regulatory environment, vulnerable financial systems along with the continued civil and political unrest of most the developing countries.\n\nMany regulatory and governmental authorities issue estimates each year for the amount of money laundered, either worldwide or within their national economy. In 1996, a spokesperson for the IMF estimated that 2–5% of the worldwide global economy involved laundered money. The Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), an intergovernmental body set up to combat money laundering, stated, \"Due to the illegal nature of the transactions, precise statistics are not available and it is therefore impossible to produce a definitive estimate of the amount of money that is globally laundered every year. The FATF therefore does not publish any figures in this regard.\" Academic commentators have likewise been unable to estimate the volume of money with any degree of assurance. Various estimates of the scale of global money laundering are sometimes repeated often enough to make some people regard them as factual—but no researcher has overcome the inherent difficulty of measuring an actively concealed practice.\n\nRegardless of the difficulty in measurement, the amount of money laundered each year is in the billions of US dollars and poses a significant policy concern for governments. As a result, governments and international bodies have undertaken efforts to deter, prevent, and apprehend money launderers. Financial institutions have likewise undertaken efforts to prevent and detect transactions involving dirty money, both as a result of government requirements and to avoid the reputational risk involved. Issues relating to money laundering have existed as long as there have been large scale criminal enterprises. Modern anti-money laundering laws have developed along with the modern War on Drugs. In more recent times anti-money laundering legislation is seen as adjunct to the financial crime of terrorist financing in that both crimes usually involve the transmission of funds through the financial system (although money laundering relates to where the money has come \"from\", and terrorist financing relating to where the money is going \"to\").\n\nIn theory, electronic money should provide as easy a method of transferring value without revealing identity as untracked banknotes, especially wire transfers involving anonymity-protecting numbered bank accounts. In practice, however, the record-keeping capabilities of Internet service providers and other network resource maintainers tend to frustrate that intention. While some cryptocurrencies under recent development have aimed to provide for more possibilities of transaction anonymity for various reasons, the degree to which they succeed—and, in consequence, the degree to which they offer benefits for money laundering efforts—is controversial. Solutions such as ZCash and Monero are examples of cryptocurrencies that provide unlinkable anonymity via proofs and/or obfuscation of information (ring signatures). Such currencies could find use in online illicit services.\n\nIn 2013, Jean-Loup Richet, a research fellow at ESSEC ISIS, surveyed new techniques that cybercriminals were using in a report written for the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. A common approach was to use a digital currency exchanger service which converted dollars into a digital currency called Liberty Reserve, and could be sent and received anonymously. The receiver could convert the Liberty Reserve currency back into cash for a small fee. In May 2013, the US authorities shut down Liberty Reserve charging its founder and various others with money laundering.\n\nAnother increasingly common way of laundering money is to use online gaming. In a growing number of online games, such as \"Second Life\" and \"World of Warcraft,\" it is possible to convert money into virtual goods, services, or virtual cash that can later be converted back into money.\n\nReverse money laundering is a process that disguises a legitimate source of funds that are to be used for illegal purposes. It is usually perpetrated for the purpose of financing terrorism but can be also used by criminal organizations that have invested in legal businesses and would like to withdraw legitimate funds from official circulation. Unaccounted cash received via disguising financial transactions is not included in official financial reporting and could be used to evade taxes, hand in bribes and pay \"under-the-table\" salaries. For example, in an affidavit filed on 24 March 2014 in United States District Court, Northern California, San Francisco Division, FBI special agent Emmanuel V. Pascau alleged that several people associated with the Chee Kung Tong organization, and California State Senator Leland Yee, engaged in reverse money laundering activities.\n\nThe problem of such fraudulent encashment practices (\"obnalichka\" in Russian) has become acute in Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union. The Eurasian Group on Combating Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (EAG) reported that the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Turkey, Serbia, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia and Kazakhstan have encountered a substantial shrinkage of tax base and shifting money supply balance in favor of cash. These processes have complicated planning and management of the economy and contributed to the growth of the shadow economy.\n\nAnti-money laundering (AML) is a term mainly used in the financial and legal industries to describe the legal controls that require financial institutions and other regulated entities to prevent, detect, and report money laundering activities. Anti-money laundering guidelines came into prominence globally as a result of the formation of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and the promulgation of an international framework of anti-money laundering standards. These standards began to have more relevance in 2000 and 2001, after FATF began a process to publicly identify countries that were deficient in their anti-money laundering laws and international cooperation, a process colloquially known as \"name and shame\".\n\nAn effective AML program requires a jurisdiction to criminalise money laundering, giving the relevant regulators and police the powers and tools to investigate; be able to share information with other countries as appropriate; and require financial institutions to identify their customers, establish risk-based controls, keep records, and report suspicious activities.\n\nStrict background checks are necessary to combat as many money launderers escape by investing through complex ownership and company structures. Banks can do that but a proper surveillance is required but on the Government side to reduce this. \n\nThe elements of the crime of money laundering are set forth in the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. It is defined as knowingly engaging in a financial transaction with the proceeds of a crime for the purpose of concealing or disguising the illicit origin of the property from governments.\n\nWhile banks operating in the same country generally have to follow the same anti-money laundering laws and regulations, financial institutions all structure their anti-money laundering efforts slightly differently. Today, most financial institutions globally, and many non-financial institutions, are required to identify and report transactions of a suspicious nature to the financial intelligence unit in the respective country. For example, a bank must verify a customer's identity and, if necessary, monitor transactions for suspicious activity. This is often termed as \"know your customer\". This means knowing the identity of the customer and understanding the kinds of transactions in which the customer is likely to engage. By knowing one's customers, financial institutions can often identify unusual or suspicious behaviour, termed anomalies, which may be an indication of money laundering.\n\nBank employees, such as tellers and customer account representatives, are trained in anti-money laundering and are instructed to report activities that they deem suspicious. Additionally, anti-money laundering software filters customer data, classifies it according to level of suspicion, and inspects it for anomalies. Such anomalies include any sudden and substantial increase in funds, a large withdrawal, or moving money to a bank secrecy jurisdiction. Smaller transactions that meet certain criteria may also be flagged as suspicious. For example, structuring can lead to flagged transactions. The software also flags names on government \"blacklists\" and transactions that involve countries hostile to the host nation. Once the software has mined data and flagged suspect transactions, it alerts bank management, who must then determine whether to file a report with the government.\n\nThe financial services industry has become more vocal about the rising costs of anti-money laundering regulation and the limited benefits that they claim it brings. One commentator wrote that \"[w]ithout facts, [anti-money laundering] legislation has been driven on rhetoric, driving by ill-guided activism responding to the need to be \"seen to be doing something\" rather than by an objective understanding of its effects on predicate crime. The social panic approach is justified by the language used—we talk of the battle against terrorism or the war on drugs\". \"The Economist\" magazine has become increasingly vocal in its criticism of such regulation, particularly with reference to countering terrorist financing, referring to it as a \"costly failure\", although it concedes that other efforts (like reducing identity and credit card fraud) may still be effective at combating money laundering.\n\nThere is no precise measurement of the costs of regulation balanced against the harms associated with money laundering, and given the evaluation problems involved in assessing such an issue, it is unlikely that the effectiveness of terror finance and money laundering laws could be determined with any degree of accuracy. \"The Economist\" estimated the annual costs of anti-money laundering efforts in Europe and North America at US$5 billion in 2003, an increase from US$700 million in 2000. Government-linked economists have noted the significant negative effects of money laundering on economic development, including undermining domestic capital formation, depressing growth, and diverting capital away from development. Because of the intrinsic uncertainties of the amount of money laundered, changes in the amount of money laundered, and the cost of anti-money laundering systems, it is almost impossible to tell which anti-money laundering systems work and which are more or less cost effective.\n\nBesides economic costs to implement anti-money-laundering laws, improper attention to data protection practices may entail disproportionate costs to individual privacy rights. In June 2011, the data-protection advisory committee to the European Union issued a report on data protection issues related to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which identified numerous transgressions against the established legal framework on privacy and data protection. The report made recommendations on how to address money laundering and terrorist financing in ways that safeguard personal privacy rights and data protection laws. In the United States, groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union have expressed concern that money laundering rules require banks to report on their own customers, essentially conscripting private businesses \"into agents of the surveillance state\".\n\nMany countries are obligated by various international instruments and standards, such as the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, the 2000 Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the 2003 United Nations Convention against Corruption, and the recommendations of the 1989 Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) to enact and enforce money laundering laws in an effort to stop narcotics trafficking, international organised crime, and corruption. Mexico, which has faced a significant increase in violent crime, established anti-money laundering controls in 2013 to curb the underlying crime issue.\n\nFormed in 1989 by the G7 countries, the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) is an intergovernmental body whose purpose is to develop and promote an international response to combat money laundering. The FATF Secretariat is housed at the headquarters of the OECD in Paris. In October 2001, FATF expanded its mission to include combating the financing of terrorism. FATF is a policy-making body that brings together legal, financial, and law enforcement experts to achieve national legislation and regulatory AML and CFT reforms. its membership consists of 36 countries and territories and two regional organizations. FATF works in collaboration with a number of international bodies and organizations. These entities have observer status with FATF, which does not entitle them to vote, but permits them full participation in plenary sessions and working groups.\n\nFATF has developed 40 recommendations on money laundering and 9 special recommendations regarding terrorist financing. FATF assesses each member country against these recommendations in published reports. Countries seen as not being sufficiently compliant with such recommendations are subjected to financial sanctions.\n\nFATF's three primary functions with regard to money laundering are:\n\nThe FATF currently comprises 34 member jurisdictions and 2 regional organisations, representing most major financial centres in all parts of the globe.\n\nThe United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime maintains the \"International Money Laundering Information Network\", a website that provides information and software for anti-money laundering data collection and analysis. The World Bank has a website that provides policy advice and best practices to governments and the private sector on anti-money laundering issues. The Basel AML Index is an independent annual ranking that assesses the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing around the world. \n\nMany jurisdictions adopt a list of specific predicate crimes for money laundering prosecutions, while others criminalize the proceeds of any serious crimes.\n\nThe Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Center of Afghanistan (FinTRACA) was established as a Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) under the Anti Money Laundering and Proceeds of Crime Law passed by decree late in 2004. The main purpose of this law is to protect the integrity of the Afghan financial system and to gain compliance with international treaties and conventions. The Financial Intelligence Unit is a semi-independent body that is administratively housed within the Central Bank of Afghanistan (Da Afghanistan Bank). The main objective of FinTRACA is to deny the use of the Afghan financial system to those who obtained funds as the result of illegal activity, and to those who would use it to support terrorist activities.\n\nTo meet its objectives, the FinTRACA collects and analyzes information from a variety of sources. These sources include entities with legal obligations to submit reports to the FinTRACA when a suspicious activity is detected, as well as reports of cash transactions above a threshold amount specified by regulation. Also, FinTRACA has access to all related Afghan government information and databases. When the analysis of this information supports the supposition of illegal use of the financial system, the FinTRACA works closely with law enforcement to investigate and prosecute the illegal activity. FinTRACA also cooperates internationally in support of its own analyses and investigations and to support the analyses and investigations of foreign counterparts, to the extent allowed by law. Other functions include training of those entities with legal obligations to report information, development of laws and regulations to support national-level AML objectives, and international and regional cooperation in the development of AML typologies and countermeasures.\n\nAustralia has adopted a number of strategies to combat money laundering, which mirror those of a majority of western countries. The Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) is Australia's financial intelligence unit to combat money laundering and terrorism financing, which requires financial institutions and other 'cash dealers' in Australia to report to it suspicious cash or other transactions and other specific information. The Attorney-General's Department maintains a list of outlawed terror organisations. It is an offense to materially support or be supported by such organisations. It is an offence to open a bank account in Australia in a false name, and rigorous procedures must be followed when new bank accounts are opened. \n\nThe \"Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006\" (Cth) (AML/CTF Act) is the principal legislative instrument, although there are also offence provisions contained in Division 400 of the \"Criminal Code Act 1995\" (Cth). Upon its introduction, it was intended that the AML/CTF Act would be further amended by a second tranche of reforms extending to designated non-financial businesses and professions (DNFBPs) including, inter alia, lawyers, accountants, jewellers and real estate agents; however, those further reforms have yet to be progressed.\n\nThe \"Proceeds of Crime Act 1987\" (Cth) imposes criminal penalties on a person who engages in money laundering, and allows for confiscation of property. The principal objects of the Act are set out in s.3(1):\n\n\nThe first anti-money laundering legislation in Bangladesh was the \"Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2002\". It was replaced by the \"Money Laundering Prevention Ordinance 2008\". Subsequently, the ordinance was repealed by the \"Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2009\". In 2012, government again replace it with the \"Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012\"\n\nIn terms of section 2, \"Money Laundering means – (i) knowingly moving, converting, or transferring proceeds of crime or property involved in an offence for the following purposes:- (1) concealing or disguising the illicit nature, source, location, ownership or control of the proceeds of crime; or (2) assisting any person involved in the commission of the predicate offence to evade the legal consequences of such offence; (ii) smuggling money or property earned through legal or illegal means to a foreign country; (iii) knowingly transferring or remitting the proceeds of crime to a foreign country or remitting or bringing them into Bangladesh from a foreign country with the intention of hiding or disguising its illegal source; or (iv) concluding or attempting to conclude financial transactions in such a manner so as to reporting requirement under this Act may be avoided;(v) converting or moving or transferring property with the intention to instigate or assist for committing a predicate offence; (vi) acquiring, possessing or using any property, knowing that such property is the proceeds of a predicate offence; (vii) performing such activities so as to the illegal source of the proceeds of crime may be concealed or disguised; (viii) participating in, associating with, conspiring, attempting, abetting, instigate or counsel to commit any offences mentioned above.\n\nTo prevent these Illegal uses of money, the Bangladesh government has introduced the Money Laundering Prevention Act. The Act was last amended in the year 2009 and all the financial institutes are following this act. Till today there are 26 circulars issued by Bangladesh Bank under this act. To prevent money laundering, a banker must do the following:\n\nIn 1991, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Act was brought into force in Canada to give legal effect to the former FATF Forty Recommendations by establishing record keeping and client identification requirements in the financial sector to facilitate the investigation and prosecution of money laundering offences under the Criminal Code and the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.\n\nIn 2000, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Act was amended to expand the scope of its application and to establish a financial intelligence unit with national control over money laundering, namely FINTRAC.\n\nIn December 2001, the scope of the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Act was again expanded by amendments enacted under the Anti-Terrorism Act with the objective of deterring terrorist activity by cutting off sources and channels of funding used by terrorists in response to 9/11. The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) Act was renamed the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act.\n\nIn December 2006, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act was further amended, in part, in response to pressure from the FATF for Canada to tighten its money laundering and financing of terrorism legislation. The amendments expanded the client identification, record-keeping and reporting requirements for certain organizations and included new obligations to report attempted suspicious transactions and outgoing and incoming international electronic fund transfers, undertake risk assessments and implement written compliance procedures in respect of those risks.\n\nThe amendments also enabled greater money laundering and terrorist financing intelligence-sharing among enforcement agencies.\n\nIn Canada, casinos, money service businesses, notaries, accountants, banks, securities brokers, life insurance agencies, real estate salespeople and dealers in precious metals and stones are subject to the reporting and record keeping obligations under the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act.\n\nThe fourth and latest iteration of the EU’s anti-money laundering directive (AMLD IV) was published on 5 June 2015, after clearing its last legislative stop at the European Parliament. The new directive brings the EU’s anti-money laundering laws more in line with the US’s, which is welcome news for financial institutions that are operating in both jurisdictions. The Fifth Money Laundering Directive (5MLD) will come into force on the 10th January 2020. It will address a number of weaknesses in the European Union’s AML/CFT regime that have come to light since the enactment of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive AMLD IV).\n\nLack of harmonization in AML requirements between the US and EU has complicated the compliance efforts of global institutions that are looking to standardize the Know Your Customer (KYC) component of their AML programs across key jurisdictions. AMLD IV promises to better align the AML regimes by adopting a more risk-based approach compared to its predecessor, AMLD III.\n\nCertain components of the directive, however, go beyond current requirements in both the EU and US, imposing new implementation challenges on banks. For instance, more public officials are brought within the scope of the directive, and EU member states are required to establish new registries of “beneficial owners” (i.e., those who ultimately own or control each company) which will impact banks. AMLD IV became effective 25 June 2015.\n\nIn 2002, the Parliament of India passed an act called the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The main objectives of this act are to prevent money-laundering as well as to provide for confiscation of property either derived from or involved in, money-laundering.\n\nSection 12 (1) describes the obligations that banks, other financial institutions, and intermediaries have to \n\nSection 12 (2) prescribes that the records referred to in sub-section (1) as mentioned above, must be maintained for ten years after the transactions finished. It is handled by the Indian Income Tax Department.\n\nThe provisions of the Act are frequently reviewed and various amendments have been passed from time to time.\n\nMost money laundering activities in India are through political parties, corporate companies and the shares market. These are investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and Indian Income Tax Department. According to Government of India, out of the total tax arrears of about pertain to money laundering and securities scam cases.\n\nBank accountants must record all transactions over Rs. 1 million and maintain such records for 10 years. Banks must also make cash transaction reports (CTRs) and suspicious transaction reports over Rs. 1 million within 7 days of initial suspicion. They must submit their reports to the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax Department.\n\nSingapore’s legal framework for combating money laundering is contained in a patchwork of legal instruments, the main elements of which are:\nThe term ‘money laundering’ is not used as such within the CDSA. Part VI of the CDSA criminalises the laundering of proceeds generated by criminal conduct and drug tracking via the following offences:\n\nMoney laundering and terrorist funding legislation in the UK is governed by four Acts of primary legislation:-\n\nMoney Laundering Regulations are designed to protect the UK financial system, as well as preventing and detecting crime. If a business is covered by these regulations then controls are put in place to prevent it being used for money laundering.\n\nThe Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 contains the primary UK anti-money laundering legislation, including provisions requiring businesses within the \"regulated sector\" (banking, investment, money transmission, certain professions, etc.) to report to the authorities suspicions of money laundering by customers or others.\n\nMoney laundering is broadly defined in the UK. In effect any handling or involvement with any proceeds of any crime (or monies or assets representing the proceeds of crime) can be a money laundering offence. An offender's possession of the proceeds of his own crime falls within the UK definition of money laundering. The definition also covers activities within the traditional definition of money laundering, as a process that conceals or disguises the proceeds of crime to make them appear legitimate.\n\nUnlike certain other jurisdictions (notably the US and much of Europe), UK money laundering offences are not limited to the proceeds of serious crimes, nor are there any monetary limits. Financial transactions need no money laundering design or purpose for UK laws to consider them a money laundering offence. A money laundering offence under UK legislation need not even involve money, since the money laundering legislation covers assets of any description. In consequence, any person who commits an acquisitive crime (i.e., one that produces some benefit in the form of money or an asset of any description) in the UK inevitably also commits a money laundering offence under UK legislation.\n\nThis applies also to a person who, by criminal conduct, evades a liability (such as a taxation liability)—which lawyers call \"obtaining a pecuniary advantage\"—as he is deemed thereby to obtain a sum of money equal in value to the liability evaded.\n\nThe principal money laundering offences carry a maximum penalty of 14 years' imprisonment.\n\nSecondary regulation is provided by the Money Laundering Regulations 2003, which was replaced by the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. They are directly based on the EU directives 91/308/EEC, 2001/97/EC and 2005/60/EC.\n\nOne consequence of the Act is that solicitors, accountants, tax advisers, and insolvency practitioners who suspect (as a consequence of information received in the course of their work) that their clients (or others) have engaged in tax evasion or other criminal conduct that produced a benefit, now must report their suspicions to the authorities (since these entail suspicions of money laundering). In most circumstances it would be an offence, \"tipping-off\", for the reporter to inform the subject of his report that a report has been made. These provisions do not however require disclosure to the authorities of information received by certain professionals in privileged circumstances or where the information is subject to legal professional privilege. Others that are subject to these regulations include financial institutions, credit institutions, estate agents (which includes chartered surveyors), trust and company service providers, high value dealers (who accept cash equivalent to €15,000 or more for goods sold), and casinos.\n\nProfessional guidance (which is submitted to and approved by the UK Treasury) is provided by industry groups including the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group, the Law Society. and the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies (CCAB).\nHowever, there is no obligation on banking institutions to routinely report monetary deposits or transfers above a specified value. Instead reports must be made of all suspicious deposits or transfers, irrespective of their value.\n\nThe reporting obligations include reporting suspicious gains from conduct in other countries that would be criminal if it took place in the UK. Exceptions were later added for certain activities legal where they took place, such as bullfighting in Spain.\n\nMore than 200,000 reports of suspected money laundering are submitted annually to authorities in the UK (there were 240,582 reports in the year ended 30 September 2010. This was an increase from the 228,834 reports submitted in the previous year). Most of these reports are submitted by banks and similar financial institutions (there were 186,897 reports from the banking sector in the year ended 30 September 2010).\n\nAlthough 5,108 different organisations submitted suspicious activity reports to the authorities in the year ended 30 September 2010, just four organisations submitted approximately half of all reports, and the top 20 reporting organisations accounted for three-quarters of all reports.\n\nThe offence of failing to report a suspicion of money laundering by another person carries a maximum penalty of 5 years' imprisonment.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, the UK House of Commons, without opposition, passed the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Bill, which will set out the UK government’s intended approach to exceptions and licenses when the nation becomes responsible for implementing its own sanctions and will also require notorious overseas British territory tax havens such as the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands to establish public registers of the beneficial ownership of firms in their jurisdictions by the end of 2020. The legislation was passed by the House of Lords on May 21 and received Royal Asset on May 23. However, the Act's public register provision is facing legal challenges from local governments in the Cayman Islands and British Virgin Islands, who argue that it violates their Constitutional sovereignty.\n\nAll UK \"Bureaux de change\" are registered with Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs, which issues a trading licence for each location. Bureaux de change and money transmitters, such as Western Union outlets, in the UK fall within the \"regulated sector\" and are required to comply with the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. Checks can be carried out by HMRC on all Money Service Businesses.\n\nIn South Africa, the Financial Intelligence Centre Act (2001) and subsequent amendments have added responsibilities to the FSB to combat money laundering.\n\nThe approach in the United States to stopping money laundering is usually broken into two areas: preventive (regulatory) measures and criminal measures.\n\nIn an attempt to prevent dirty money from entering the U.S. financial system in the first place, the United States Congress passed a series of laws, starting in 1970, collectively known as the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). These laws, contained in sections 5311 through 5332 of Title 31 of the United States Code, require financial institutions, which under the current definition include a broad array of entities, including banks, credit card companies, life insurers, money service businesses and broker-dealers in securities, to report certain transactions to the United States Department of the Treasury. Cash transactions in excess of a certain amount must be reported on a currency transaction report (CTR), identifying the individual making the transaction as well as the source of the cash. The law originally required all transactions of US$5,000 or more to be reported, but due to excessively high levels of reporting the threshold was raised to US$10,000. The U.S. is one of the few countries in the world to require reporting of all cash transactions over a certain limit, although certain businesses can be exempt from the requirement. Additionally, financial institutions must report transaction on a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) that they deem \"suspicious\", defined as a knowing or suspecting that the funds come from illegal activity or disguise funds from illegal activity, that it is structured to evade BSA requirements or appears to serve no known business or apparent lawful purpose; or that the institution is being used to facilitate criminal activity. Attempts by customers to circumvent the BSA, generally by structuring cash deposits to amounts lower than US$10,000 by breaking them up and depositing them on different days or at different locations also violates the law.\n\nThe financial database created by these reports is administered by the U.S.'s Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), called the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), located in Vienna, Virginia. The reports are made available to U.S. criminal investigators, as well as other FIU's around the globe, and FinCEN conducts computer assisted analyses of these reports to determine trends and refer investigations.\n\nThe BSA requires financial institutions to engage in customer due diligence, or KYC, which is sometimes known in the parlance as know your customer. This includes obtaining satisfactory identification to give assurance that the account is in the customer's true name, and having an understanding of the expected nature and source of the money that flows through the customer's accounts. Other classes of customers, such as those with private banking accounts and those of foreign government officials, are subjected to enhanced due diligence because the law deems that those types of accounts are a higher risk for money laundering. All accounts are subject to ongoing monitoring, in which internal bank software scrutinizes transactions and flags for manual inspection those that fall outside certain parameters. If a manual inspection reveals that the transaction is suspicious, the institution should file a Suspicious Activity Report.\n\nThe regulators of the industries involved are responsible to ensure that the financial institutions comply with the BSA. For example, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regularly inspect banks, and may impose civil fines or refer matters for criminal prosecution for non-compliance. A number of banks have been fined and prosecuted for failure to comply with the BSA. Most famously, Riggs Bank, in Washington D.C., was prosecuted and functionally driven out of business as a result of its failure to apply proper money laundering controls, particularly as it related to foreign political figures.\n\nIn addition to the BSA, the U.S. imposes controls on the movement of currency across its borders, requiring individuals to report the transportation of cash in excess of US$10,000 on a form called Report of International Transportation of Currency or Monetary Instruments (known as a CMIR). Likewise, businesses, such as automobile dealerships, that receive cash in excess of US$10,000 must file a Form 8300 with the Internal Revenue Service, identifying the source of the cash.\n\nOn 1 September 2010, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued an advisory on \"informal value transfer systems\" referencing \"United States v. Banki\".\n\nIn the United States, there are perceived consequences of anti-money laundering (AML) regulations. These unintended consequences include FinCEN's publishing of a list of \"risky businesses,\" which many believe unfairly targeted money service businesses. The publishing of this list and the subsequent fall-out, banks indiscriminately de-risking MSBs, is referred to as Operation Choke Point. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network issued a Geographic Targeting Order to combat against illegal money laundering in the United States. This means that title insurance companies in the U.S. are required to identify the natural persons behind companies that pay all cash in residential real estate purchases over a particular amount in certain U.S. cities.\n\nMoney laundering has been criminalized in the United States since the Money Laundering Control Act of 1986. The law, contained at section 1956 of Title 18 of the United States Code, prohibits individuals from engaging in a financial transaction with proceeds that were generated from certain specific crimes, known as \"specified unlawful activities\" (SUAs). The law requires that an individual specifically intend in making the transaction to conceal the source, ownership or control of the funds. There is no minimum threshold of money, and no requirement that the transaction succeeded in actually disguising the money. A \"financial transaction\" has been broadly defined, and need not involve a financial institution, or even a business. Merely passing money from one person to another, with the intent to disguise the source, ownership, location or control of the money, has been deemed a financial transaction under the law. The possession of money without either a financial transaction or an intent to conceal is not a crime in the United States. Besides money laundering, the law contained in section 1957 of Title 18 of the United States Code, prohibits spending more than US$10,000 derived from an SUA, regardless of whether the individual wishes to disguise it. It carries a lesser penalty than money laundering, and unlike the money laundering statute, requires that the money pass through a financial institution.\n\nAccording to the records compiled by the United States Sentencing Commission, in 2009, the United States Department of Justice typically convicted a little over 81,000 people; of this, approximately 800 are convicted of money laundering as the primary or most serious charge.\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 expanded the definition of financial institution to include businesses such as car dealers and real estate closing personnel and required them to file reports on large currency transaction. It required verification of identity of those who purchase monetary instruments over $3,000. The Annunzio-Wylie Anti-Money Laundering Act of 1992 strengthened sanctions for BSA violations, required so called \"Suspicious Activity Reports\" and eliminated previously used \"Criminal Referral Forms\", required verification and recordkeeping for wire transfers and established the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group (BSAAG). The Money Laundering Suppression Act from 1994 required banking agencies to review and enhance training, develop anti-money laundering examination procedures, review and enhance procedures for referring cases to law enforcement agencies, streamlined the Currency transaction report exemption process, required each Money services business (MSB) to be registered by an owner or controlling person, required every MSB to maintain a list of businesses authorized to act as agents in connection with the financial services offered by the MSB, made operating an unregistered MSB a federal crime, and recommended that states adopt uniform laws applicable to MSBs. The Money Laundering and Financial Crimes Strategy Act of 1998 required banking agencies to develop anti-money laundering training for examiners, required the Department of the Treasury and other agencies to develop a \"National Money Laundering Strategy\", created the \"High Intensity Money Laundering and Related Financial Crime Area\" (HIFCA) Task Forces to concentrate law enforcement efforts at the federal, state and local levels in zones where money laundering is prevalent. HIFCA zones may be defined geographically or can be created to address money laundering in an industry sector, a financial institution, or group of financial institutions.\n\nThe Intelligence Reform & Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 amended the Bank Secrecy Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations requiring certain financial institutions to report cross-border electronic transmittals of funds, if the Secretary determines that reporting is \"reasonably necessary\" in \"anti-money laundering /combatting financing of terrorists (Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism AML/CFT).\n\n\nTo prevent the usage of decentralized digital money such as Bitcoin for the profit of crime and corruption, Australia is planning to strengthen the nation's anti-money laundering laws.\nKnowing the characteristics of Bitcoin, it is completely deterministic, protocol based and cannot be censored, may circumvent national laws using services like Tor to obfuscate transaction origins, and relies completely off of cryptography, not a central entity running under a KYC framework. There are several cases of criminals have cashed out a significant amount of Bitcoin after ransomware attacks, drug dealings, cyber fraud and gunrunning. Other damages such as The DAO being drained of Ether cannot be classified as money laundering under any legal definition, as decentralized virtual environments are legally stateless and cannot be intervened with by a governing body. Such an incident has been debated as to the clear definition of money laundering in a stateless environment, leading to Ethereum Classic to form.\n\n"}
{"id": "3669702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3669702", "title": "Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004", "text": "Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004\n\nThe Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (c 5) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was promoted by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. It substantially reforms the town planning and compulsory purchase framework in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt both amended and repealed significant parts of the existing planning and compulsory purchase legislation in force at the time, including the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and introduced reforms such as the abolition of Local Plans and Structure Plans, and their replacement with Local Development Frameworks.\n\nThe Act took over 18 months to negotiate its passage through Parliament and required special dispensation both to be carried over from one Parliamentary session to another and to prevent it being lost on one occasion due to an error in the wording of a Commons motion.\n\nThe Bill was introduced in the House of Commons in December 2002. It was re-committed to Commons Committee to allow the inclusion of significant new material relating to the removal of Crown Immunity and Compulsory Purchase and carried over to the current session.\n\nThe Act received Royal Assent on 13 May 2004 and came into force in mid July 2004; Regulations implementing the parts of the Act reforming development plans came into force shortly afterwards.\n\nThe remaining sections of the Act are being implemented by further regulations and development orders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17287639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17287639", "title": "Port District Act", "text": "Port District Act\n\nThe Port District Act is a law enacted by the Legislature of the U.S. state of Washington in 1911, that enabled citizens to establish public port districts to develop and operate harbors and related transportation facilities.\n\nThe Act is part of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW) as \"Title 53\".\n\nThe first port district established under the new law was the Port of Seattle, with Hiram M. Chittenden, Robert Bridges, and Charles Remsberg as the first Port Commissioners. Also in 1911, the Port of Grays Harbor was established. The Port was a breeding ground for scientific discovery and a renaissance of the time. \n"}
{"id": "31515773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31515773", "title": "Rav akçesi", "text": "Rav akçesi\n\nRav akçesi was a \"rabbi tax\" paid by Jewish communities in the Ottoman Empire. The origins of Rav akçesi are unclear; it has been suggested that it was one of two taxes imposed specifically on Jews, and that it may have developed in parallel with the authority of a senior rabbi in Istanbul, who was at nominally a representative and judge for Jewish communities in the Ottoman empire, although their authority may not have extended far beyond Istanbul.\n\nIt has been suggested that Mehmet II imposed the tax in return for separate representation of Jews after 1455, as part of a broader effort to rebuild and revive Istanbul; this may also have served to undermine the Greek patriarchy. Under the Ottoman empire there was, at time, friction between \"Greeks\" and \"Jews\"; the authorities may at times have favoured one over the other.\n\nAlthough \"rav akçesi\" was a cash tax, rather than a tax in kind, it could be hypothecated to provide specific goods; tax records for 1655 show that the rav akçesi in Monastir (Bitola) was a significant source of funding of drapery for janissaries; the tax official responsible for purchases would be the same person responsible for collecting the tax.\n\nNon-Muslims were usually taxed at a higher rate, overall, in the Ottoman empire, thanks to taxes such as rav akçesi and ispence. Jews in particular may have been singled out to pay higher rates of ispence. The Porte was well aware of this - and even aware that this would tempt nonmuslims to convert; Bayezit II ruled that courts should treat nonmuslims more leniently (including such measures as lower fines), \"so that the poll-tax payers shall not vanish\".\n\nAs with other taxes in the Ottoman empire, rav akçesi could be affected by a complex patchwork of local rules and exemptions, including muafiyet; the Jews of Selanik (Thessaloniki) were among those exempted from taxes by a muafname after the city was conquered by Murad II.\n\n"}
{"id": "38469580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469580", "title": "Regional Economic Intelligence Committee", "text": "Regional Economic Intelligence Committee\n\nThe Regional Economic Intelligence Committee is the apex forum overseeing government agencies responsible for economic intelligence and combating economic offenses in the respective states of India. The Committee is under the Economic Intelligence Council. It was formed in 1990. The head of the committee is usually the Director General of the Directorate General of Income Tax Investigation.\n\n\nMembers vary from state to state.\n\n"}
{"id": "3470592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3470592", "title": "Removal jurisdiction", "text": "Removal jurisdiction\n\nIn the United States, removal jurisdiction sometimes exists for the defendant to move a civil action filed in a state court to the United States district court in the district in which the state court is located. A federal statute, \"et seq\"., governs removal. \n\nGenerally, removal jurisdiction exists only if, at the time plaintiff filed the action in state court, the federal court had a basis for exercising subject-matter jurisdiction over the action, such as diversity of citizenship of the parties or where plaintiff's action involves a claim under federal law. If removal is based solely on diversity of citizenship, removal jurisdiction does not exist if any properly joined and served defendant is a citizen of the state in which the action action is pending. 28 U.S.C. § 1441(b)(2).\n\nWhere removal jurisdiction exists, the defendant may remove the action to federal court by filing a notice of removal in the federal district court within 30 days after receiving the complaint. The defendant must file a copy of the notice of removal in the state court and must notify all other parties of the removal. In a case with more than one defendant named defendant, normally all defendants who have been served with legal process must join in the notice of removal. 28 U.S.C. § 1446.\n\nIf the party contends that removal was improper, based on any ground other than that the federal district court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the party may move the district court to remand the case to state court within 30 days after the defendant filed the notice of removal. 28 U.S.C. § 1447. The district court will grant the motion if it finds that removal was improper. If the district court determines that it lacks subject matter jurisdiction at any time before entry of final judgment, the district court must remand the action to the state court. 28 U.S.C. § 1447.\n\nThe Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 creates a separate basis for defendants to remove specified class actions filed in a state court to a federal district court.\n\nWhen there are multiple defendants in a case, if even just one is a citizen of the state where the lawsuit was filed, a plaintiff can successfully object to removal if the only basis for federal jurisdiction is based on diversity of citizenship. The reason for the rule is that diversity jurisdiction was created by the Founding Fathers of the United States in the Constitution to shield defendants from possible discrimination in a foreign forum (i.e., a state not their home state). When an in-state defendant is being sued in a state court, it is expected that he will not be subject to unfair prejudice. With the exception of class actions under CAFA, every defendant must agree to remove; otherwise, the plaintiff or non-removing defendants can request remand for failure to satisfy the \"rule of unanimity\".\n\nNotably, there is a circuit split (and several intracircuit splits) over whether every defendant \"named\" in the complaint must join in the removal notice, or whether the rule of unanimity applies only to those defendants who have been properly served as of the date of removal. The reason this is important is that sometimes a plaintiff may not be able to (or may deliberately choose not to) formally serve \"all\" defendants on the same day, or some defendants may become aware of the existence of the complaint before it is formally served (for example, if other already-served defendants send them a \"courtesy copy\"). In courts that adhere to the latter rule, removal jurisdiction may be proper as long as defendants can show that all defendants who were properly served by the date of removal joined in the removal notice, even though not all named defendants joined in the notice.\n\nA plaintiff may never remove its own case, even if the defendant files counterclaims alleging violations of federal law by the plaintiff. A plaintiff must seek a dismissal without prejudice and refile in federal court.\n\nThere exists a small set of cases (e.g., workers' compensation actions and actions under the Federal Employers Liability Act) that are barred from removal under all circumstances.\n\nA statute dating back to 1815, the latest analogue of which is codified at , allows removal of state criminal cases where the defendant is a federal officer who alleges that the act was committed in carrying out his federal duties. Under this, a number of state criminal cases have been removed to federal court and there summarily dismissed, thus preventing trial on the merits of whether the officer or agent was in fact carrying out his official duties, or acting outside of them. A famous example of such a removal was the case of \"Idaho v. Lon Horiuchi\", alleged to have committed manslaughter of Vicki Weaver in the Ruby Ridge encounter.\n\nThe removal jurisdiction in cases involving federal officers who are sued or criminally prosecuted, is pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1442. as opposed to removal under 28 U.S.C. 1446. The primary difference between the two statutes is that in the wording of the 1442 statute, the law provides that in the case of federal officers, the federal district court need not otherwise have subject-matter jurisdiction over the type of case presented so long as the federal officer was acting within the scope of the performance of a federal duty, where cases brought under 1446 require the requisite federal subject-matter jurisdiction specifically mentioned in the 1446 statute in order to survive.\n\nWhen defendants want to remove, they ordinarily must do so within 30 days of receiving the complaint, \"through service or otherwise\", under (b). An exception applies if diversity jurisdiction, and thus removal jurisdiction, is lacking at the time of the initial pleading in state court, but becomes available within a year after initiation of the suit. In such case, defendants may remove under 28 U.S.C. §1446(b) (second paragraph). For example, a federal court would not initially have removal jurisdiction over claims under state law brought by a Texas citizen against another Texas citizen and a New York citizen. However, should the Texas defendant be dropped from the claim, the New York citizen can remove if one year has not passed since the initiation of the suit. Some courts permit equitable tolling of the one-year limitation of §1446(b) if the original complaint was an attempt in bad faith to evade federal jurisdiction.\n\nDefendants may remove state law claims for which a federal court has only supplemental jurisdiction, if they share a common nucleus of operative fact with claims based on federal law. The federal court has the discretion to accept the case as a whole or remand the issues of state law, however the court must apply state substantive law to state law claims, as opposed to federal law- a practice which is inline to actions brought under 42 U.S.C. 1983.\n\nState courts do not adjudicate whether an action could be properly removed. Once a defendant has filed a notice to remove a case, jurisdiction is transferred automatically and \"immediately\" by operation of law from the state court to the federal court. Any objection to removal must be presented to the federal court. If a federal court finds that the notice of removal was in fact defective, or that the federal court does not have jurisdiction, the case is remanded to the state court.\n\nA defendant used to have to formally petition the federal court for the right to remove, and jurisdiction was not transferred until the federal court entered a formal order to that effect. The petition procedure was abolished around 1980 by Congress and replaced with the simple filing-of-notice removal procedure, although federal courts still see the occasional petition for removal or a motion for remand due to the lack of such a petition.\n\nThere is no reverse \"removal\". That is, if a case originates in a federal court, there is no ability for a defendant to remove a case from federal court into state court. If the federal court lacks jurisdiction, the case is dismissed. Only cases that originate in a state court and are improperly removed to a federal court may be sent back to the state court where they started.\n\nA defendant can waive the right to remove by contract, although courts take different positions about what language is necessary to create a waiver. \n\nRemand orders are not generally appealable , but may be appealed in the case of removals brought under the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 or where the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation appeals a remand order under 12 U.S.C. § 1819(b)(2)(C). An alleged waiver of removal rights is also appealable, since the issue is not jurisdiction but the legal effect of the defendant's actions and agreements.\n\n"}
{"id": "57210764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57210764", "title": "Reward Work Act", "text": "Reward Work Act\n\nThe Reward Work Act of 2018 (S.2605 and HR 6096) is a proposed United States Act of Congress to ban unjustified stock buy-backs, and to require every listed company enable employees to elect one-third of the board of directors. The Bill was sponsored initially by Senators Tammy Baldwin, Elizabeth Warren and Brian Schatz in March 2018, and joined in April 2018 by Kirsten Gillibrand. It was sponsored in the House of Representatives in June 2018 by Keith Ellison and Ro Khanna.\n\nSection 2 prohibits stock buybacks on the open market.\n\nSection 3 requires one-third board representation for employees of listed companies. Specifically, this amends §12b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 USC 78l(b)(1)) to add \"No issuer may register securities on a national exchange unless at least 1⁄3 of the issuer’s directors are chosen by the issuing company’s employees in a one-employee-one-vote election process.\" It then requires the Securities and Exchange Commission, consulting with the National Labor Relations Board to make regulations ensuring democratic election processes, and 1/3 of an issuer's board to \"be composed of employee representatives within 2 years of the date of enactment of this Act.\"\n\nThe problem of stock buybacks as a source of US income inequality had become highly visible as a result of the award-winning 2014 publication of the \"Harvard Business Review\" article, \"Profits Without Prosperity: Stock Buybacks Manipulate the Market and Leave Most Americans Worse Off,\" by William Lazonick. The Act was welcomed by the Roosevelt Institute, and media outlets. The Act also gathered endorsements from the following groups:\n\n\nA Civis poll found people in \"the “lean Democrat” category voted 75% in favor of the question, and just 9% opposed. Around 43% of the “lean Republican” category supported the concept, while 31% opposed, and the pure Republican category saw 4% more opposed than in favor. But overall, a clear majority of people favor the concept.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57211036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57211036", "title": "Safety of journalists", "text": "Safety of journalists\n\nSafety of journalists is the ability for journalists and media professionals to receive, produce and share information without facing physical or moral threats.\n\nJournalists can face violence and intimidation for exercising their fundamental right to freedom of expression. The range of threats they are confronted to include murder, kidnapping, hostage-taking, offline and online harassment, intimidation, enforced disappearances, arbitrary detention and torture. Women journalists also face specific dangers and are especially vulnerable to sexual assault, \"whether in the form of a targeted sexual violation, often in reprisal for their work; mob-related sexual violence aimed against journalists covering public events; or the sexual abuse of journalists in detention or captivity. Many of these crimes are not reported as a result of powerful cultural and professional stigmas.\"\n\nIncreasingly, journalists, and particularly women journalists, are facing abuse and harassment online, such as hate speech, cyber-bullying, cyber-stalking, docking, trolling, public shaming and intimidation and threats.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2016, UNESCO’s Director-General condemned the killing of 530 journalists, an average of two deaths per week. During the previous five-year period, 2007 to 2011, UNESCO recorded 316 killings. The year 2012 proved to be the deadliest year on record, with 124 journalists killed. The majority of journalists killed between 2012 and 2016 occurred in countries experiencing armed conflict, representing 56 per cent of overall killings.\n\nAccording to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) nearly 50 per cent of those whose death was confirmed to be related to their work as journalist were murdered, while 36 per cent were caught in the crossfire and 14 per cent killed while on dangerous assignment. According to the NGO, political groups were the most likely source of violence (36 per cent) in these killings, followed by military officials (22 per cent) and unknown sources (20 per cent).\n\nAs the reliance on freelance journalists by news organizations is increasing, a rising proportion of journalists killed have been freelance. UNESCO's study, \"World Trends in Freedom of Expression and Media Development Global Report 2017/2018\", has found that over the past five years, 113 freelance journalists were killed, representing 21 per cent of the total. Freelance journalists are particularly vulnerable, often working alone on stories, in dangerous environments, and without the same level of assistance and protection as staff-journalists.\n\nIn the same period, according to UNESCO data, the number of journalists targeted who work primarily online fluctuated significantly, but accounts for 14 per cent of journalists killed overall. Journalists and crew who work primarily in television experienced the most casualties (166), followed by those mainly working for print (142), radio (118), online (75) and those working across multiple platforms (29).\n\nTerrorism represents a direct and growing threat for journalists, which has taken the form of kidnappings, executions threats or hacking. At the end of the 1970s, the general policy of welcoming journalists into areas of guerrillas control changed. Organizations such as the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, the Red Brigades in Italy, the Shining Path in Peru and the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) in Algeria targeted journalists, considering them as the auxiliaries of the powers they were combating, and thus as enemies. Between 1993 and 1997, more than 100 journalists and media workers were killed in Algeria. During the Lebanese Civil War (1975-1990), kidnapping international journalists became a common tactic.\n\nAccording to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), 40% of the journalists murdered in 2015 were killed by groups claiming adherence to radical Islam. International press correspondents, in particular, are considered potential hostages, or sacrificial lambs, whose execution is dramatized to serve terrorist propaganda. This happened to James Foley, Steven Sotloff (United States) and Kenji Goto (Japan), who were beheaded by Daesh.\n\nTrauma and the emotional impact of witnessing terrorism is also an issue for journalists, as they may experience anxiety, insomnia, irritation and physical problems such as fatigue or headaches. It can also lead to post-traumatic stress disorder, which can cause incapacitating feelings of horror, fear and despair. According to the study Eyewitness Media Hub of 2015, 40% of the journalists who were interviewed admitted that viewing video testimonies had had negative effects on their personal life.\n\nThe protection of sources and surveillance is one of the major issues in the coverage of terrorism in order to protect witnesses and interviewees against reprisals.\n\nThere is a continuing trend of impunity for crimes against journalists, with over 90% of cases of killings of journalists unresolved.The Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, Edison Lanza considers impunity as a key obstacle to ensuring journalists' safety. Frank La Rue, UNESCO's former Assistant Director-General for Communication and Information considers that its \"root cause has to be attributed to lack of political will to pursue investigations, including for fear of reprisals from criminal networks in addition to inadequate legal frameworks, a weak judicial system, lack of resources allocated to law enforcement, negligence, and corruption\". \n\nUNESCO has set up a mechanism to monitor the status of judicial enquiries into the killings of journalists. Each year, UNESCO’s Director-General sends a request to Member States in which killings of journalists have occurred asking them to inform UNESCO of the status of ongoing investigations on each killing condemned by the Organization. UNESCO records the responses to these requests in a public report submitted every two years to the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) Council by the Director-General. The IPDC's 2016 Report is summarized in the \"Time to break the cycle of violence against journalists\" publication which highlights key findings, provides analysis of the killings, and of Member States responses. In 2017, UNESCO sent letters to 62 Member States requesting information on the status of unresolved cases that occurred between 2006 and 2016. Based on Member State responses, the percentage of resolved cases has remained low, at less than 10%. Cumulatively, since UNESCO began requesting information on the judicial follow-up to journalists’ killings condemned by the Director-General, the Organization has received information from 63 out of 75 Member States. The information covers 622 cases out of a total of 930 recorded by UNESCO between 2006 and 2016 (67 per cent).\n\nAt its 68th session in 2013, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution A/RES/68/163 proclaiming 2 November as the International Day to End Impunity for Crimes Against Journalists. The day acts to promote understanding of the broader issues that accompany impunity and to strengthen international commitment to ensuring a safe and enabling environment for journalists.\n\nThe United Nations Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity supports Member States in the implementation of proactive initiatives to address the prevailing culture of impunity, such as judicial capacity building and the strengthening of monitor and prosecution mechanisms.\n\nAccording to data compiled by the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), the imprisonment of journalists on charges relating to anti-state activities, criminal defamation, blasphemy, retaliation or on no charge at all, has reportedly continued to rise. In 2016, the CPJ reported that 259 journalists were imprisoned worldwide on a range of charges, the highest number since the non-governmental organization began keeping records in 1990.\n\nReporters Without Borders (RSF)—which tracks the imprisonment of citizen journalists, Netizens and media contributors, along with professional journalists—reported that 348 journalists were detained in 2016 on a range of charges, an increase of six per cent on 2015 figures. 2016 reportedly saw the proportion of women journalists detained more than double, with nearly half of those detained located in the Asia-Pacific region. The Western Europe and North America region has the highest number of journalists imprisoned, holding 34 per cent of imprisoned journalists worldwide with 73 journalists imprisoned in Turkey in 2017.\n\nRSF Secretary-General Christophe Deloire has stated that \"a full-blown hostage industry has developed in certain conflict zones\", with a 35 per cent increase in 2015 compared to the previous year of the number of media hostages held worldwide.\n\nThe Media Institute of Southern Africa has documented incidents of intimidation such as the torching of vehicles, physical assault and death threats. In parts of the Arab region, journalists and prominent writers have reportedly suffered death threats, been severely beaten and had travel restrictions imposed upon them. In the Asia Pacific region, the Southeast Asian Press Alliance has noted that in some insecure contexts, physical insecurity is reportedly so tenuous that some journalists have chosen to arm themselves.\n\nThreats and actual cases of violence and imprisonment, as well as harassment, are reported to have forced a large number of local journalists into exile each year. Between 1 June 2012 and 31 May 2015, at least 272 journalists reportedly went into exile for work-related persecution worldwide.\n\nOne survey conducted by PEN America of over 520 writers found that the majority reported concerns about government surveillance, which led to a reluctance to write, research or speak about certain topics. Almost a quarter of the writers had deliberately avoided certain topics in phone and email conversations, while 16 per cent had avoided writing or speaking about a certain topic and another 11 per cent had seriously considered it. A 2017 survey conducted by the Council of Europe of 940 journalists throughout 47 Member States found that in the face of physical violence or coercion, 15 per cent of journalists abandon covering sensitive, critical stories, while 31 per cent tone down their coverage and 23 per cent opt to withhold information in Europe.\n\nSurveillance, data storage capabilities and digital attack technologies are becoming more sophisticated, less expensive and more pervasive, making journalists increasingly vulnerable to digital attacks from both state and Non-state actors.\n\nIn a number of states across multiple regions, broadly defined legislative acts have been seen by some as working to silence digital dissent, prosecute whistle blowers and expand arbitrary surveillance across multiple digital platforms.\n\nIn late 2016, the International Press Institute launched the OnTheLine database, a project that aims to systematically monitor online harassment of journalists as a response to their reporting. As of July 2017, the project had collected 1,065 instances of online harassment in the two countries (Turkey and Austria) in which the project collected data. In Pakistan, the Digital Rights Foundation has launched the country's first cyber harassment helpline for journalists, which aims to provide legal advice, digital security support, psychological counselling and a referral system to victims. As of May 2017, the helpline handled a total of 563 cases since its launch six months earlier, with 63 per cent of calls received from women and 37 per cent from men. Research undertaken by Pew Research Center indicated that 73 per cent of adult internet users in the United States had seen someone be harassed in some way online and 40 per cent had personally experienced it, with young women being particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment and stalking.\n\nSimilar to their male counterparts, women journalists, whether they are working in an insecure context, or in a newsroom, face risks of attacks while exercising their profession but are also particularly vulnerable to attacks of a sexual nature such as, sexual harassment, sexual assault, or even rape. Such attacks can come from those attempting to silence their coverage but also from sources, colleagues and others. A 2014 global survey of nearly 1,000 women journalists, initiated by the International News Safety Institute (INSI) in partnership with the International Women's Media Foundation (IWMF) and with the support of UNESCO, found that nearly two-thirds of women who took part in the survey had experienced intimidation, threats or abuse in the workplace.\n\nIn the period from 2012 through 2016, UNESCO's Director-General denounced the killing of 38 women journalists, representing 7 per cent of all journalists killed. The percentage of journalists killed who are women is significantly lower than their overall representation in the media workforce. This large gender gap is likely partly the result of the persistent under-representation of women reporting from war-zones or insurgencies or on topics such as politics and crime.\n\nThe September 2017 report of the United Nations Secretary-General on the safety of journalists outlines a way forward for a gender-sensitive approach to strengthening the safety of women journalists. In 2016, the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers adopted Recommendation CM/Rec(2016)4 on the protection of journalism and safety of journalists and other media actors, in particular noting the gender-specific threats that many journalists face and calling for urgent, resolute and systematic responses. The same year, the IPDC Council requested the UNESCO Director-General's report to include gender-related information.\n\nAn analysis of more than two million tweets performed by the think tank Demos found that women journalists experienced approximately three times as many abusive comments as their male counterparts on Twitter.\n\nThe Guardian surveyed the 70 million comments recorded on its website between 1999 and 2016 (only 22,000 of which were recorded before 2006). Of these comments, approximately 1.4 million (approximately two per cent) were blocked for abusive or disruptive behavior. Of the 10 staff journalists who received the highest levels of abuse and ‘dismissive trolling’, eight were women.\n\nThe INSI and IWMF survey found that more than 25 per cent of ‘verbal, written and/or physical intimidation including threats to family and friends’ took place online.\n\nCountering online abuse is a significant challenge, and few legislative and policy frameworks exist on the international or national level to protect journalists from digital harassment.\n\nThe International Federation of Journalists and the South Asia Media Solidarity Network launched the Byte Back campaign to raise awareness and combat online harassment of women journalists in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) organized an expert meeting titled ‘New Challenges to Freedom of Expression: Countering Online Abuse of Female Journalists’ which produced a publication of the same title that includes the voices of journalists and academics on the realities of online abuse of women journalists and how it can be combated.\n\nInternational legal instruments represent one of the key tools that can support the creation of an enabling environment for the safety of journalists. These include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the Geneva Conventions; the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the United Nations Commission on Human Rights Resolution 2005/81; the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1738 (2006).\n\nThe safety of journalists and their role in promoting inclusive and sustainable societies has been recognized by the United Nations in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Goal 16 outlines the promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective and inclusive institutions at all levels.\n\nSince 2012 there has been a total of 12 UN resolutions on safety of journalists adopted by several UN organs.\n\nIn December 2015, Resolution A/70/125 of the General Assembly recognized serious threats to freedom of expression in the context of reviewing progress since the 2005 World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS). The Resolution called for the protection of journalists and media workers.\n\nThe United Nations Secretary General also produces reports on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity (in 2014 A/69/268, 2015 A/HRC/30/68 respectively, 2017 A/72/290).\n\nSDG 16.10.1 relates to the number of verified cases of killings, kidnapping, enforced disappearance, arbitrary detention and torture of journalists, associated media personnel, trade unionists and human rights defenders. The indicator was decided upon by the United Nations Statistical Commission for tracking progress in the achievement of target 10.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) Plan of Action, coordinated by UNESCO, was elaborated to provide a comprehensive, coherent, and action-oriented UN-wide approach to the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity. Since its launch, it has become a guiding framework for activities in this area. Following its endorsement by the UN System Chief Executives Board for Coordination in 2012, the UN Plan of Action has been welcomed by the UN General Assembly, UNESCO and the Human Rights Council. Outside of the UN, it has been referred to by various regional bodies, and it has given impetus to and fostered a spirit of cooperation between the UN and various stakeholders in many countries.\n\nUNESCO celebrates World Press Freedom Day every year on 3 May during which the Guillermo Cano Prize is attributed to honor the work of an individual or an organization defending or promoting freedom of expression.\n\n\nUNESCO's IPDC developed the Journalists Safety Indicators (JSI) to \"pinpoint significant matters that show, or impact upon, the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity\". These indicators map the key features that can help assess safety of journalists, and determine whether adequate follow-up is given to crimes committed against them. Analysis based on the Journalists Safety indicators have been conducted in Guatemala (2013), Kenya (2016), Nepal (2016), Pakistan (2013–2014).\n\nThe OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media performs an early warning function and provides rapid response to serious noncompliance with regard to free media and free expression. The Representative maintains direct contacts with authorities, media and civil society representatives and other parties and shares his/ her observations and recommendations with the OSCE participating States twice a year.\n\nIn May 2014, the Council of the European Union adopted the European Union Human Rights Guidelines on Freedom of Expression Online and Offline, which stated that the European Union would ‘take all appropriate steps to ensure the protection of journalists, both in terms of preventive measures and by urging effective investigations when violations occur’. In April 2014, the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers adopted a resolution on the protection of journalism and safety of journalists and other media actors, which called for concerted international efforts and led to the creation of an online platform for monitoring infringements of freedom of expression.\n\nThe Organization of American States (OAS) has played a proactive role in promoting the safety of journalists. In June 2017, the General Assembly of the OAS passed Resolution R86/17, which urged States ‘to implement comprehensive measures for prevention, protection, investigation and punishment of those responsible, as well as to put into action strategies to end impunity for crimes against journalists and share good practices'.\n\nThe Secretary-General of the Commonwealth has pledged support for the United Nations Plan of Action, working to promote journalist safety and institutional mechanisms that foster freedom of expression within member states across different regions.\n\nThe Centre for Freedom of the Media at the University of Sheffield launched the Journalists’ Safety Research Network (JSRN). The JSRN contributes to advancing academic cooperation on the safety of journalists by increasing research capacity, collaboration and knowledge sharing within the academic community.\n\nIn 2014, Columbia University, United States, established Columbia Global Freedom of Expression, which brings together international experts and activists with the university's faculty and students, in order to ‘survey, document and strengthen free expression’.\n\nIn 2015, the International Press Institute, Al Jazeera Media Network, Geneva Global Media and the Geneva Press Club presented the International Declaration and Best Practices on the Promotion of Journalists Safety. The declaration aims to reinforce and promote existing international obligations and mechanisms associated with the safety of journalists and contribute to the protection of their rights.\n\nThe same year, news media organizations joined forces with press freedom NGOs and journalists to launch the A Culture of Safety (ACOS) Alliance. The ACOS Alliance’s Freelance Journalist Safety Principles, a set of practices for newsrooms and journalists on dangerous assignments, have been endorsed by 90 organizations around the world. In addition, a network of safety officers in media companies expanded following the meeting ‘Media Organizations Standing Up for the Safety of Journalists’ held at UNESCO in February 2016.\n\nReporters without Borders (RSF) is an international non-governmental organization recognized as being of public utility in France. It aims to defend press freedom and the protection of journalism sources. It is mainly known for its annual ranking on the status of press freedom worldwide and monitoring of the crimes committed against journalists.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) is a non-governmental organization that aims to \"defend the right of journalists to report the news without fear of reprisal\" and promote freedom of expression. The NGO monitors the imprisonment, disappearances and killings of journalists worldwide. The Organization informs on the status of freedom of the press and journalists safety in conflict countries and others, and helps journalists through services such as the emergencies response teams, the safety advisories and the security guide. CPJ's annual International Press Freedom Awards recognizes bravery for journalists from all around the world.\n"}
{"id": "28098412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28098412", "title": "Same-sex immigration policy in Brazil", "text": "Same-sex immigration policy in Brazil\n\nSame-sex immigration policy in Brazil or immigration equality is legal in Brazil since December 3, 2003, and the new text is of January 29, 2008. The Federal Police of Brazil, located in the Brazilian Airports, is the responsible by this initial procedure, that forwards the documents to the National Immigration Council of Brazil, located in Brasília, the federal capital. Which examines whether the union is true, such as opposite-sex couples.\n\nNormative Resolution No. 77, 29.01.2008/ CNIG - National Immigration Council \n\nTemporary or permanent visa. \nProvides for criteria for the granting of temporary or permanent visa, or permission to stay, to partner, in marriage, without distinction of sex and repealing Administrative Resolution No. 5, December 3, 2003.\n\nResolution Regulations No-77, of 29 January 2008\n\nProvides for criteria for the granting of temporary or permanent visa, or permission to stay, to partner, in marriage, without distinction of sex.\n\nThe National Immigration Council, instituted by Law no. 6815, to August 19, 1980, and organized by Law no. 10.683, of May 28, 2003, in exercise of the powers conferred by Decree Nr. 840, of June 22, 1993, resolves:\n\nArticle 1: Requests for temporary or permanent visa, or permission to stay for companion in marriage, without distinction of sex, should be examined under the terms of Normative Resolution No. 27 of November 25, 1998, concerning special situations or omissions, and the Normative Resolution No. 36, September 28, 1999, on family reunion.\n\nArticle 2: The proof of marriage must be made by one of the following documents:\n\nI - certificate of marriage issued by the national government of the country of origin of the call, or;\n\nII - Proof of marriage issued by the competent court in Brazil or corresponding authority abroad.\n\nArticle 3: In the absence of the documents referred to in art. 2, the proof of marriage must be made by submitting:\n\nI - certificate or similar document issued by authority of the national civil registry, or foreign equivalent;\n\nII - statement under penalty of law, two people attesting to the existence of a stable union, and;\n\nIII - at least two of the following documents:\n\na) evidence of dependence issued by the tax authority or body corresponding to the Revenue;\n\nb) religious marriage certificate;\n\nc) proving the testamentary dispositions bond;\n\nd) life insurance policy in stating a party insurance as settlor and the other as beneficiary;\n\ne) the deed of purchase and sale, registered with the joint property in setting out the parties as owners, or lease of property that appear as tenants, and;\n\nf) joint bank account.\n\nSole Paragraph. For purposes of paragraphs \"b\" through \"f\" of section III of this article shall pay the minimum of one year.\n\nArticle 4: The claimant must also present:\n\nI - application containing historical marriage law;\n\nII - deed of commitment to maintenance, support and exit from national territory, if necessary, in favor of the call, done in registry;\n\nIII - Proof of means of subsistence of the claimant or the foreigner, with source in Brazil or abroad, sufficient for the maintenance and sustenance of both, or employment relationships, or even subsidies from scholarship, and other lawful means;\n\nIV - certified copy of identity document of the claimant;\n\nV - certified copy of passport of the call in its entirety;\n\nVI - a certificate of criminal records issued by the country of origin or habitual residence of the call;\n\nVII - proof of payment of individual immigration, and;\n\nVIII - statement under penalty of law, the marital status of the foreigner in the country of origin.\n\nSole Paragraph. At the discretion of the competent authority, the claimant may be asked to provide other documents.\n\nArticle 5: Documents issued abroad must be legalized by a Brazilian consular office in the country and translated by a sworn translator in Brazil.\n\nArticle 6: If necessary, the National Immigration Council request the Ministry of Justice to court.\n\nArticle 7: In the case of a permanent visa or residence permit, foreigners remain bound to the condition that allowed its grant for a period of two years, and the condition contained in your passport and Alien ID card (CIE).\n\n§ 1 The carrier permanently bound record under the caption may apply for indefinite stay by proving the continuity of stable union;\n\n§ 2 Once the period referred to in the heading up to the Ministry of Justice to rule on the stay indefinitely in the foreign country;\n\n§ 3 The request for the in § 1, after the time under the caption, subject the named to the penalty of a fine under clause sixteenth of art. 125 of Law No. 6815, 1980, as amended by Law no. 6964, to December 9, 1981.\n\nArticle 8: This Normative Resolution enters into force upon its publication, does not apply to cases already in progress.\n\nArticle 9: is repealed Administrative Resolution No. 05, December 3, 2003.\n\nPAULO SÉRGIO DE ALMEIDA\n\nPresident of the National Immigration Council\n\n"}
{"id": "3122753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3122753", "title": "Solid-state lighting", "text": "Solid-state lighting\n\nSolid-state lighting (SSL) refers to a type of lighting that uses semiconductor light-emitting diodes (LEDs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLED), or polymer light-emitting diodes (PLED) as sources of illumination rather than electrical filaments, plasma (used in arc lamps such as fluorescent lamps), or gas.\n\nThe term \"solid state\" refers commonly to light emitted by solid-state electroluminescence, as opposed to incandescent bulbs (which use thermal radiation) or fluorescent tubes. Compared to incandescent lighting, SSL creates visible light with reduced heat generation and less energy dissipation. Most common \"white\" LEDs convert blue light from a solid-state device to an (approximate) white light spectrum using photoluminescence, the same principle used in conventional fluorescent tubes.\n\nThe typically small mass of a solid-state electronic lighting device provides for greater resistance to shock and vibration compared to brittle glass tubes/bulbs and long, thin filament wires. They also eliminate filament evaporation, potentially increasing the life span of the illumination device.\n\nSolid-state lighting is often used in traffic lights and is also used frequently in modern vehicle lights, street and parking lot lights, train marker lights, building exteriors, remote controls etc. Controlling the light emission of LEDs may be done most effectively by using the principles of nonimaging optics.\n\nSolid-state lighting has made significant advances in industry. In the entertainment lighting industry, standard incandescent tungsten-halogen lamps are being replaced by solid-state light lighting fixtures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50717827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50717827", "title": "South Dakota House Bill 1008", "text": "South Dakota House Bill 1008\n\nSouth Dakota House Bill 1008, also known as House Bill 1008, HB 1008, and the Bathroom Bill, was a bill passed by the South Dakota Legislature in 2016 and vetoed by Governor of South Dakota Dennis Daugaard. The purpose of the bill was to restrict bathroom and locker room use by transgender students to facilities that matched their sex assigned at birth, not their gender identity. It was the first such bathroom bill to be passed in a state legislature in the U.S. and sparked a chain of similar bills across the nation. HB 1008 was opposed by several LGBT rights organizations, such as the HRC, GLSEN, and ACLU.\n\nThe bill's purpose was to require transgender students in public schools to use bathroom, shower, and locker facilities that matched their \"chromosomes and anatomy at birth\". It would have also restricted their access to facilities that matched their gender identity, while requiring school districts to provide adequate accommodations for transgender students if requested by that student.\n\nHB 1008 was sponsored by Representative Fred Deutsch, who was backed by Representatives Scott Craig, Al Novstrup, Jeff Partridge, Lance Russell, Lee Schoenbeck, Mike Verchio, and Larry Zikmund; and Senators Brock Greenfield, Terri Haverly, Ried Holien, Betty Olson, and Ernie Otten.\n\nThe bill was first proposed to the South Dakota House of Representatives on January 12, 2016. It was then referred to the House State Affairs Committee on January 13, and on January 25, it was amended and passed 10-3, at which point it was sent back to the House. The House amended the bill to include the language \"anatomy as identified at birth\" and passed it 58-10 on January 27. HB 1008 was passed in the South Dakota Senate 20-15 on February 16 and was sent to the South Dakota Governor Dennis Daugaard's office on February 23.\n\nPrior to his decision, Daugaard initially said that he had never knowingly met a transgender person and felt he did not need to before making a decision on whether of not to sign the bill into law. He later agreed to meet with transgender people on February 23, which he said \"put a human face\" to the bill. Daugaard vetoed the bill on March 2, stating that the bill did not solve any pressing issues in the state, and that decisions should be made on a local level. A veto override in the House failed 36-29 the next day, which Deutsch did not support, in favor of letting the bill die for passage at another time. Deutsch has said that he would like to revive the bill for the 2017 legislative session.\n\nHB 1008 was supported by several lawmakers and organizations, such as the Heritage Foundation, Family Heritage Alliance Action, and the Roman Catholic bishops of South Dakota, saying that the bill protected the privacy of children. Senator David Omdahl pledged support for the bill, saying he believed it would protect child innocence, and calling transgender people \"twisted\".\n\nThe bill was opposed by several LGBT rights and children's organizations and celebrities, who said the bill violated transgender students' right to conform to their gender identity. Among these organizations were the American Academy of Pediatrics, Human Rights Campaign, Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, and American Civil Liberties Union. Laverne Cox and Caitlyn Jenner, two transgender activists, were among the celebrities who opposed the measure. Several tourists threatened to boycott the state over social media — South Dakota brings in approximately $3.8 billion in tourism revenue annually.\nCritics of the bill also said that it violated Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which protects transgender students from public school discrimination, and that passing the bill would have meant South Dakota losing federal funding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29263", "title": "Statute of Westminster 1931", "text": "Statute of Westminster 1931\n\nThe Statute of Westminster 1931 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and modified versions of it are now domestic law within Australia and Canada; it has been repealed in New Zealand and implicitly in former Dominions that are no longer Commonwealth realms. Passed on 11 December 1931, the act, either immediately or upon ratification, effectively both established the legislative independence of the self-governing Dominions of the British Empire from the United Kingdom and bound them all to seek each other's approval for changes to monarchical titles and the common line of succession. It thus became a statutory embodiment of the principles of equality and common allegiance to the Crown set out in the Balfour Declaration of 1926. As the Statute removed nearly all of the British Parliament's authority to legislate for the Dominions, it had the effect of making the Dominions fully sovereign nations in their own right. It was a crucial step in the development of the Dominions as separate states.\n\nThe Statute of Westminster's relevance today is that it sets the basis for the continuing relationship between the Commonwealth realms and the Crown.\n\nThe Statute of Westminster gave effect to certain political resolutions passed by the Imperial Conferences of 1926 and 1930; in particular, the Balfour Declaration of 1926. The main effect was the removal of the ability of the British parliament to legislate for the Dominions, part of which also required the repeal of the Colonial Laws Validity Act 1865 in its application to the Dominions. King George V expressed his desire that the laws of royal succession be exempt from the statute's provisions, but it was determined that this would be contrary to the principles of equality set out in the Balfour Declaration. Both Canada and the Irish Free State pushed for the ability to amend the succession laws themselves and section 2(2) (allowing a Dominion to amend or repeal laws of paramount force, such as the succession laws, insofar as they are part of the law of that Dominion) was included in the Statute of Westminster at Canada's insistence. After the Statute was passed, the British parliament could no longer make laws for the Dominions, other than with the request and consent of the government of that Dominion. Before then, the Dominions had legally been self-governing colonies of the United Kingdom. However, the Statute had the effect of making them sovereign nations once they adopted it.\n\nThe Statute provides in section 4:\nNo Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom passed after the commencement of this Act shall extend, or be deemed to extend, to a Dominion as part of the law of that Dominion, unless it is expressly declared in that Act that that Dominion has requested, and consented to, the enactment thereof. \n\nIt also provides in section 2(1):\nNo law and no provision of any law made after the commencement of this Act by the Parliament of a Dominion shall be void or inoperative on the ground that it is repugnant to the Law of England, or to the provisions of any existing or future Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, or to any order, rule or regulation made under any such Act, and the powers of the Parliament of a Dominion shall include the power to repeal or amend any such Act, order, rule or regulation in so far as the same is part of the law of the Dominion.\n\nThe whole Statute applied to Canada, the Irish Free State, and the Union of South Africa without the need for any acts of ratification; the governments of those countries gave their consent to the application of the law to their respective jurisdiction. Section 10 of the Statute provided that sections 2 to 6 would apply in the other three Dominions—Australia, New Zealand, and Newfoundland—only after the parliament of that Dominion had legislated to adopt them.\n\nSince 1931, over a dozen new Commonwealth realms have been created, all of which now hold the same powers as the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand over matters of change to the monarchy, though the Statute of Westminster is not part of their laws. Ireland and South Africa are now republics and Newfoundland is part of Canada.\n\nAustralia adopted sections 2 to 6 of the Statute of Westminster with the Statute of Westminster Adoption Act 1942, in order to clarify the validity of certain Australian legislation relating to the Second World War; the adoption was backdated to 3 September 1939, the date that Britain and Australia joined the War.\n\nAdopting section 2 of the Statute clarified that the Commonwealth parliament was able to legislate inconsistently with British legislation, adopting section 3 clarified that it could legislate with extraterritorial effect. Adopting section 4 clarified that Britain could legislate with effect on Australia as a whole only with Australia's request and consent.\n\nNonetheless, under section 9 of the Statute, on matters not within Commonwealth power Britain could still legislate with effect in all or any of the Australian states, without the agreement of the Commonwealth although only to the extent of \"the constitutional practice existing before the commencement\" of the Statute. However, this capacity was never used. In particular, it was not used to implement the result of the Western Australian secession referendum, 1933, as it did not have the support of the Australian government.\nAll British power to legislate with effect in Australia ended with the Australia Act 1986, the British version of which says that it was passed with the request and consent of the Australian parliament, which had obtained the concurrence of the Australian states.\n\nThis statute limited the legislative authority of the British parliament over Canada, effectively giving the country legal autonomy as a self-governing Dominion, though the British parliament retained the power to amend Canada's constitution at the request of the Parliament of Canada. That authority remained in effect until the Constitution Act, 1982, which transferred it to Canada, the final step to achieving full sovereignty.\nThe British North America Acts—the written elements (in 1931) of the Canadian constitution—were excluded from the application of the statute because of disagreements between the Canadian provinces and the federal government over how the British North America Acts could be otherwise amended. These disagreements were resolved only in time for the passage of the Canada Act 1982, thus completing the patriation of the Canadian constitution to Canada. At that time, the Canadian parliament also repealed sections 4 and 7(1) of the Statute of Westminster. The Statute of Westminster remains a part of the constitution of Canada by virtue of section 52(2)(b) of the Constitution Act, 1982.\n\nAs a consequence of the statute's adoption, the Parliament of Canada gained the ability to abolish appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Criminal appeals were abolished in 1933, while civil appeals continued until 1949. The passage of the Statute of Westminster meant that changes in British legislation governing the succession to the throne no longer automatically applied to Canada.\n\nThe Irish Free State never formally adopted the Statute of Westminster, its Executive Council taking the view that the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921 had already ended Westminster's right to legislate for the Free State. The Free State's constitution gave the Oireachtas \"sole and exclusive power of making laws\". Hence, even before 1931, the Free State did not arrest British Army and Royal Air Force deserters on its territory, even though the UK believed post-1922 British laws gave the Free State's Garda Síochána the power to do so. The UK's Irish Free State Constitution Act 1922 said, however, \" in the [Free State] Constitution shall be construed as prejudicing the power of [the British] Parliament to make laws affecting the Irish Free State in any case where, in accordance with constitutional practice, Parliament would make laws affecting other self-governing Dominions\".\nMotions of approval of the Report of the Commonwealth Conference had been passed by the Dáil and Seanad in May 1931 and the final form of the Statute of Westminster included the Irish Free State among the Dominions the British parliament could not legislate for without the Dominion's request and consent. Originally, the UK government had wanted to exclude from the Statute of Westminster the legislation underpinning the 1921 treaty, from which the Free State's constitution had emerged. President W. T. Cosgrave objected, although he promised the Executive Council would not amend the legislation unilaterally. The other Dominions backed Cosgrave and, when an amendment to similar effect was proposed at Westminster by John Gretton, parliament duly voted it down. When the Statute became law in the UK, Patrick McGilligan, the Free State Minister for External Affairs, stated: \"It is a solemn declaration by the British people through their representatives in Parliament that the powers inherent in the Treaty position are what we have proclaimed them to be for the last ten years.\" He went on to present the Statute as largely the fruit of the Free State's efforts to secure for the other Dominions the same benefits it already enjoyed under the treaty.\n\nAfter Éamon de Valera led Fianna Fáil to victory in the Free State election of 1932, he began removing the monarchical elements of the constitution, beginning with the Oath of Allegiance. De Valera initially considered invoking the Statute of Westminster in making these changes, but John J. Hearne advised him not to. Abolishing the Oath of Allegiance in effect abrogated the 1921 treaty. Generally, the British thought that this was morally objectionable but legally permitted by the Statute of Westminster. Robert Lyon Moore, a southern unionist from County Donegal, challenged the legality of the abolition in the Free State courts and then appealed to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) in London. However, the Free State had also abolished the right of appeal to the JCPC. In 1935, the JCPC ruled that both abolitions were valid under the Statute of Westminster. The Free State, which in 1937 was renamed \"Ireland\", left the Commonwealth in 1949 upon the coming into force of its Republic of Ireland Act.\n\nThe Parliament of New Zealand adopted the Statute of Westminster by passing its Statute of Westminster Adoption Act 1947 in November 1947. The New Zealand Constitution Amendment Act, passed the same year, empowered the New Zealand parliament to change the constitution, but did not remove the ability of the British parliament to legislate regarding the New Zealand constitution. The remaining role of the British parliament was removed by the New Zealand Constitution Act 1986 and the Statute of Westminster was repealed in its entirety.\n\nThe Dominion of Newfoundland never adopted the Statute of Westminster, especially because of financial troubles and corruption there. By request of the Dominion's government, the United Kingdom established the Commission of Government in 1934, resuming direct rule of Newfoundland. That arrangement remained until Newfoundland became a province of Canada in 1949.\n\nAlthough the Union of South Africa was not among the Dominions that needed to adopt the Statute of Westminster for it to take effect, two laws—the Status of the Union Act, 1934, and the Royal Executive Functions and Seals Act of 1934—were passed to confirm South Africa's status as a sovereign state.\n\nThe preamble to the Statute of Westminster sets out conventions which affect attempts to change the rules of succession to the Crown. The second paragraph of the preamble to the Statute reads:\n\nAnd whereas it is meet and proper to set out by way of preamble to this Act that, inasmuch as the Crown is the symbol of the free association of the members of the British Commonwealth of Nations, and as they are united by a common allegiance to the Crown, it would be in accord with the established constitutional position of all the members of the Commonwealth in relation to one another that any alteration in the law touching the Succession to the Throne or the Royal Style and Titles shall hereafter require the assent as well of the Parliaments of all the Dominions as of the Parliament of the United Kingdom:\n\nThis means, for example, that any change in any realm to the Act of Settlement's provisions barring Roman Catholics from the throne would require the unanimous assent of the parliaments of all the other Commonwealth realms if the shared aspect of the Crown is to be retained. The preamble does not itself contain enforceable provisions, it merely expresses a constitutional convention, albeit one fundamental to the basis of the relationship between the Commonwealth realms. (As sovereign nations, each is free to withdraw from the arrangement, using their respective process for constitutional amendment.) Additionally, per section 4, if a realm wished for a British act amending the Act of Settlement in the UK to become part of that realm's laws, thereby amending the Act of Settlement in that realm, it would have to request and consent to the British act and the British act would have to state that such request and consent had been given. Section 4 of the Statute of Westminster has been repealed in a number of realms, however, and replaced by other constitutional clauses absolutely disallowing the British parliament from legislating for those realms.\n\nThis has raised some logistical concerns, as it would mean multiple parliaments would all have to assent to any future changes in any realm to its line of succession, as with the Perth Agreement's proposals to abolish male-preference primogeniture.\n\nDuring the abdication crisis in 1936, British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin consulted the Commonwealth prime ministers at the request of King Edward VIII. The King wanted to marry Wallis Simpson, whom Baldwin and other British politicians considered unacceptable as queen, as she was an American divorcée. Baldwin was able to get the then five Dominion prime ministers to agree with this and thus register their official disapproval at the King's planned marriage. The King later requested the Commonwealth prime ministers be consulted on a compromise plan, in which he would wed Simpson under a morganatic marriage pursuant to which she would not become queen. Under Baldwin's pressure, this plan was also rejected by the Dominions. All of these negotiations occurred at a diplomatic level and never went to the Commonwealth parliaments. However, the enabling legislation that allowed for the actual abdication (His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act 1936) did require the assent of each Dominion parliament to be passed and the request and consent of the Dominion governments so as to allow it to be part of the law of each Dominion. For expediency and to avoid embarrassment, the British government had suggested the Dominion governments regard whomever is monarch of the UK to automatically be their monarch. However, the Dominions rejected this; Prime Minister of Canada William Lyon Mackenzie King pointed out that the Statute of Westminster required Canada's request and consent to any legislation passed by the British parliament before it could become part of Canada's laws and affect the line of succession in Canada. The text of the British act states that Canada requested and consented (the only Dominion to formally do both) to the act applying in Canada under the Statute of Westminster, while Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa simply assented.\n\nIn February 1937, the South African parliament formally gave its assent by passing His Majesty King Edward the Eighth's Abdication Act, 1937, which declared that Edward had abdicated on 10 December 1936; that he and his descendants, if any, would have no right of succession to the throne; and that the Royal Marriages Act 1772 would not apply to him or his descendants, if any. The move was largely done for symbolic purposes, in an attempt by Prime Minister J. B. M. Hertzog to assert South Africa's independence from Britain. In Canada, the federal parliament passed the Succession to the Throne Act 1937, to assent to His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act and ratify the government's request and consent to it. In the Irish Free State, Prime Minister Éamon de Valera used the departure of Edward as an opportunity to remove all explicit mention of the monarch from the constitution of the Irish Free State, through the Constitution (Amendment No. 27) Act 1936, passed on 11 December 1936. The following day, the External Relations Act provided for the king to carry out certain diplomatic functions, if authorised by law. A new Constitution of Ireland, with a president, was approved by Irish voters in 1937, with the Irish Free State becoming simply \"Ireland\", or, in the Irish language, \"Éire\". However, the head of state of Ireland remained unclear until 1949, when Ireland unambiguously became a republic outside the Commonwealth of Nations by enacting the Republic of Ireland Act 1948.\n\nIn some countries where the Statute of Westminster forms a part of the constitution, the anniversary of the date of the passage of the original British statute is commemorated as Statute of Westminster Day. In Canada, it is mandated that, on 11 December, the Royal Union Flag (as the Union Jack is called by law in Canada) is to be flown at properties owned by the federal Crown, where the requisite second flag pole is available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18777353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18777353", "title": "Strategic bankruptcy", "text": "Strategic bankruptcy\n\nA strategic bankruptcy may occur when an otherwise solvent company makes use of the bankruptcy laws for some specific business purpose. For example, in 2002 Kmart filed Chapter 11 for protection from creditors. One of the main problems affecting Kmart's cash flow and therefore its liquidity was that Kmart was locked into long-term leases at premium rates with respect to various unprofitable stores. While in chapter 11 reorganization, Kmart was able to renegotiate or rescind those particular leases.\n\nIn some countries, like Sweden, it is common at least for smaller companies with deep debts, to have a bankruptcy, and close down the company, but where the owner has prepared a new company which buys important assets including the name, and continues with much smaller debts.\n\n"}
{"id": "30876097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876097", "title": "Stream Control Transmission Protocol", "text": "Stream Control Transmission Protocol\n\nThe Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is a computer networking communications protocol which operates at the transport layer and serves a role similar to the popular protocols TCP and UDP. It is standardized by IETF in RFC 4960.\n\nSCTP provides some of the features of both UDP and TCP: it is message-oriented like UDP and ensures reliable, in-sequence transport of messages with congestion control like TCP. It differs from those protocols by providing multi-homing and redundant paths to increase resilience and reliability. \n\nIn the absence of native SCTP support in operating systems, it is possible to tunnel SCTP over UDP, as well as to map TCP API calls to SCTP calls so existing applications can use SCTP without modification.\nThe reference implementation was released as part of FreeBSD version 7. It has since been widely ported.\n\nThe IETF Signaling Transport (SIGTRAN) working group defined the protocol (number 132) in 2000, and the IETF Transport Area (TSVWG) working group maintains it. RFC 4960 defines the protocol. RFC 3286 provides an introduction.\n\nSCTP applications submit their data to be transmitted in messages (groups of bytes) to the SCTP transport layer. SCTP places messages and control information into separate \"chunks\" (data chunks and control chunks), each identified by a \"chunk header\". The protocol can fragment a message into a number of data chunks, but each data chunk contains data from only one user message. SCTP bundles the chunks into SCTP packets. The SCTP packet, which is submitted to the Internet Protocol, consists of a packet header, SCTP control chunks (when necessary), followed by SCTP data chunks (when available).\n\nOne can characterize SCTP as message-oriented, meaning it transports a sequence of messages (each being a group of bytes), rather than transporting an unbroken stream of bytes as does TCP. As in UDP, in SCTP a sender sends a message in one operation, and that exact message is passed to the receiving application process in one operation. In contrast, TCP is a stream-oriented protocol, transporting streams of bytes reliably and in order. However TCP does not allow the receiver to know how many times the sender application called on the TCP transport passing it groups of bytes to be sent out. At the sender, TCP simply appends more bytes to a queue of bytes waiting to go out over the network, rather than having to keep a queue of individual separate outbound messages which must be preserved as such.\n\nThe term \"multi-streaming\" refers to the capability of SCTP to transmit several independent streams of chunks in parallel, for example transmitting web page images together with the web page text. In essence, it involves bundling several connections into a single SCTP association, operating on messages (or chunks) rather than bytes.\n\nTCP preserves byte order in the stream by including a byte sequence number with each segment. SCTP, on the other hand, assigns a sequence number or a message-id to each \"message\" sent in a stream. This allows independent ordering of messages in different streams. However, message ordering is optional in SCTP; a receiving application may choose to process messages in the order of receipt instead of in the order of sending.\n\nFeatures of SCTP include:\n\nThe designers of SCTP originally intended it for the transport of telephony (Signaling System 7) over Internet Protocol, with the goal of duplicating some of the reliability attributes of the SS7 signaling network in IP. This IETF effort is known as SIGTRAN. In the meantime, other uses have been proposed, for example, the Diameter protocol and Reliable Server Pooling (RSerPool).\n\nTCP has provided the primary means to transfer data reliably across the Internet. However, TCP has imposed limitations on several applications. From RFC 4960:\n\nAdoption has been slowed by lack of awareness, lack of implementations (particularly in Microsoft Windows), lack of application support and lack of network support.\n\nSCTP provides redundant paths to increase reliability.\nEach SCTP end point needs to check reachability of the primary and redundant addresses of the remote end point using a heartbeat.\nEach SCTP end point needs to ack the heartbeats it receives from the remote end point.\n\nWhen SCTP sends a message to a remote address, the source interface will only be decided by the routing table of the host (and not by SCTP).\nIn asymmetric multi homing, one of the two end points does not support multi homing.\nIn Local multi homing and Remote single homing, if the remote primary address is not reachable, the SCTP association fails even if an alternate path is possible.\n\nAn SCTP packet consists of two basic sections:\n\nEach chunk starts with a one byte type identifier, with 15 chunk types defined by RFC 4960, and at least 5 more defined by additional RFCs. Eight flag bits, a two byte length field and the data compose the remainder of the chunk. If the chunk does not form a multiple of 4 bytes (i.e., the length is not a multiple of 4) then it is padded with zeros which are not included in the chunk length. The two byte length field limits each chunk to a 65,535 byte length (including the type, flags and length fields).\n\nAlthough encryption was not part of the original SCTP design, SCTP was designed with features for improved security, such as 4-way handshake (compared to TCP 3-way handshake) to protect against SYN flooding attacks, and large \"cookies\" for association verification and authenticity.\n\nReliability was also a key part of the security design of SCTP. Multihoming enables an association to stay open even when some routes and interfaces are down. This is of particular importance for SIGTRAN as it carries SS7 over an IP network using SCTP, and requires strong resilience during link outages to maintain telecommunication service even when enduring network anomalies.\n\nSCTP is sometimes a good fingerprinting candidate. Some operating systems ship with SCTP support enabled, and, as it is not as well known as TCP or UDP, it is sometimes overlooked in firewall and intrusion detection configurations, thus often permitting probing traffic.\n\nThe SCTP reference implementation runs on FreeBSD, Mac OS X, Microsoft Windows, and Linux.\n\nThe following operating systems implement SCTP:\n\n\nThird-party drivers:\n\nUserspace library:\n\nThe following applications implement SCTP:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1112217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1112217", "title": "Strict scrutiny", "text": "Strict scrutiny\n\nStrict scrutiny is the most stringent standard of judicial review used by United States courts. It is part of the hierarchy of standards that courts use to determine which is weightier, a constitutional right or principle or the government's interest against observance of the principle. The lesser standards are rational basis review and exacting or intermediate scrutiny. These standards are used to test statutes and government action at all levels of government within the United States.\n\nThe notion of \"levels of judicial scrutiny\", including strict scrutiny, was introduced in Footnote 4 of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"United States v. Carolene Products Co.\" (1938), one of a series of decisions testing the constitutionality of New Deal legislation. The first and most notable case in which the Supreme Court applied the strict scrutiny standard and found the government's actions constitutional was \"Korematsu v. United States\" (1944), in which the Court upheld the exclusion of Japanese Americans from designated areas during World War II.\n\nU.S. courts apply the strict scrutiny standard in two contexts: when a fundamental constitutional right is infringed, particularly those found in the Bill of Rights and those the court has deemed a fundamental right protected by the Due Process Clause or \"liberty clause\" of the 14th Amendment, or when a government action applies to a \"suspect classification\", such as race or national origin. \n\nTo pass strict scrutiny, the law or policy must satisfy three tests:\n\n\nLegal scholars, including judges and professors, often say that strict scrutiny is \"strict in theory, fatal in fact\" since popular perception is that most laws subjected to the standard are struck down. However, an empirical study of strict scrutiny decisions in the federal courts found that laws survive strict scrutiny more than 30% of the time. In one area of law, religious liberty, laws that burden religious liberty survived strict scrutiny review in nearly 60% of cases. However, a discrepancy was found in the type of religious liberty claim, with most claims for exemption from law failing and no allegedly discriminatory laws surviving. See also the cases cited below, however; several appear to permit the exemption from laws based upon religious liberty.\n\nThe compelling state interest test is distinguishable from the rational basis test, which involves claims that do not involve a suspect class and involve a liberty interest rather than a fundamental right. It is also important to note that unlike the rational basis test, the burden of proof falls on the state, in cases that require strict scrutiny or intermediate scrutiny.\n\nThe Supreme Court has established standards for determining whether a statute or policy's classification requires the use of strict scrutiny. The class must have experienced a history of discrimination, must be definable as a group based on \"obvious, immutable, or distinguishing characteristics,\" be a minority or \"politically powerless,\" and its characteristics must have little relationship to the government's policy aims or the ability of the group's members to contribute to society.[Citations needed.]\n\nThe Court has consistently found that classifications based on race, national origin, and alienage require strict scrutiny review. The Supreme Court held that all race-based classifications must be subjected to strict scrutiny in \"Adarand Constructors v. Peña,\" 515 U.S. 200 (1995), overruling \"Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC\" (89-453), 497 U.S. 547 (1990), which had briefly allowed the use of intermediate scrutiny to analyze the Equal Protection implications of race-based classifications in the narrow category of affirmative-action programs established by the federal government in the broadcasting field.\n\nAs applied in \"Korematsu v. United States\", which upheld the race-based exclusion order and internment during World War II of Japanese Americans who had resided on the West Coast of the United States, strict scrutiny was limited to instances of \"de jure\" discrimination, where a racial classification is written into the language of a statute.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Village of Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp.\" provided further definition to the concept of intent and clarified three particular areas in which intent of a particular administrative or legislative decision becomes apparent, the presence of any of which demands the harsher equal protection test. The Court must use strict scrutiny if one of these tests, among others, is met:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57126815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57126815", "title": "Teacher's Oath", "text": "Teacher's Oath\n\nThe Teacher's Oath is an oath taken in some countries by teachers. Since 1863, nearly two-thirds of the states have adopted loyalty oaths for teachers. The Massachusetts Teachers' Oath was a loyalty oath required to teach in Massachusetts from 1935 to 1967.\n\nIn 1993, the German educator designed the Socratic Oath, which is supposed to be a set of professional guidelines for educators, teachers and paedagogues. \n\nToday there are many different versions of the Teacher's Oath, for example the Comenius Oath in Finland, Teachers' Oath Taking in Philippines, Abdul Kalam Teachers Oath in India, Teachers Pledge in Singapore and Betimi i Mësuesit in Kosovo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51593742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51593742", "title": "Teamwork for Employees and Managers Act of 1995", "text": "Teamwork for Employees and Managers Act of 1995\n\nTeamwork for Employees and Managers Act of 1995 was a bill vetoed by President Bill Clinton, pushed by the Republican dominated Congress. Business lobby groups had sought change the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 §8(a)(2) to weaken the rule against employer establishment and control of employee involvement programs. The Act was designed to enable employers to displace labor unions that made free collective agreements.\n\n"}
{"id": "37197775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37197775", "title": "Thawri", "text": "Thawri\n\nThe Thawri (Arabic:الثوري) Madhhab was a short lived school of Islamic Jurisprudence. Its founder was Sufyan Al-Thawri, a great 8th Century scholar, jurist and hadith compiler.\n\nAfter Ath-Thawri's move to Basra later in his life, his jurisprudential thought (usul) became more closely aligned to that of the Umayyads and of Al-Azwa'i.\n\nHe spent the last year of his life hiding after a dispute between him and the Abbasid Caliph Muhammad Ibn Mansur Al-Mahdi. After his death, the Thawri Madhhab was taken up by his students, including notably Yahya al-Qattan. However, his school did not survive, but his jurisprudential thought and especially hadith transmission are highly regarded in Islam, and have influenced all the major schools.\n"}
{"id": "43804036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43804036", "title": "Truth (NZ) Ltd v Holloway", "text": "Truth (NZ) Ltd v Holloway\n\nTruth (NZ) Ltd v Holloway [1961] NZLR 22 (PC) is a case of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on appeal from the Court of Appeal of New Zealand regarding the legal issue of defamation and free speech.\n\nThe weekly newspaper \"New Zealand Truth\", in an article dated 24 March 1959, published a story about the allocation of import licences, which contained a quote by importer Harry Judd saying to a fellow importer: \"see Phil and Phil will fix it\" The \"Phil\" referred to was the Hon. Phil Holloway, the then-Minister for Industries and Commerce under Prime Minister Walter Nash during the Second Labour Government. Holloway was not happy with the innuendo that he was involved in issuing import licences in a questionable way, and sued the paper for defamation. The paper defended the matter on the basis of privilege, in publishing an article of national significance.\n\nThe High Court ruled that the paper did not have such a defence, and awarded damages of NZ£11,000.\n\n\"Truth\" appealed to the Court of Appeal claiming they had the defence of privilege, and also that the judge had misdirected the jury.\n\nThe Court of Appeal upheld the judgement. \"The Truth\" subsequently unsuccessfully appealed to the Privy Council, but solely on the grounds that the judge had misdirected the jury. \n\nFootnote: Defence Counsel here (Robin Cooke) later became Justice Cooke.\n"}
{"id": "32095860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32095860", "title": "United4Iran", "text": "United4Iran\n\nUnited4Iran advocates for an end to human rights violations in Iran and supports the movement for genuine democratic reform in the country. United for Iran works to raise awareness about human rights abuses and mobilizes pressure on the Iranian government to uphold human rights principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. United for Iran undertakes programs and campaigns that aim to advance accountability for violations against Iranian citizens and increase the cost for human rights abuses.\nAmong its policy agenda, United for Iran calls on the Iranian government to:\n• Release political prisoners.\n• End all restrictions that prevent citizens from accessing information and the Internet freely.\n• Reform its laws and practices to adhere to international standards established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, including the promotion of gender equality; respect for freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, and freedom of religion; and ensuring freedom from torture, arbitrary detention, and extrajudicial execution.\n• Institute electoral and democratic reforms and hold genuine democratic elections open to international electoral observation.\n• Establish a moratorium on the death penalty until due process rights are guaranteed and with a view toward joining the global movement toward abolition.\nTo advance this agenda, United for Iran will pursue the following objectives: contribute to NGO coalition-building and collaboration among organizations that work on human rights promotion in Iran; encourage cooperation by the Iranian government with the international human rights system; and exert international pressure on the Iranian government to carry about the above human rights objectives.\nUnited for Iran is an independent non-profit organization formed in 2009 after the 2009–2010 Iranian election protests\". \n\nThe group organized the July 25th, 2009, Global Day of Action for Iran. With the support of major human rights organizations and several Nobel Peace Prize winners, including Desmund Tutu, Shirin Ebadi, and Jody Williams, the impetus for the Global Day of Action spread around the world, gathering momentum as a grassroots movement in over 110 cities. Since its first Global Day of Action, United4Iran has coordinated several more international days of action, including one for International Human Rights Day (2009), two to mark the anniversaries of Iran's disputed 2009 election (2010 and 2011), and one for Iran's Student Day (2010). \n\nUnited4Iran has partnered with several prominent human rights organizations, activists, and NGOs, including\n\n"}
{"id": "8313311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8313311", "title": "Voidable floating charge", "text": "Voidable floating charge\n\nIn law, a voidable floating charge refers to a floating charge entered into shortly prior to the company going into liquidation which is void or unenforceable in whole or in part under applicable insolvency legislation.\n\nGenerally speaking, a floating charge is only potentially vulnerable if it is entered into within the vulnerability period under applicable law. The vulnerability period is a period prescribed by statute immediately preceding the company going into liquidation. Most jurisdictions provide for alternative vulnerability periods: a longer one for parties who are \"connected\" to the company, and a shorter one for unrelated third parties.\n\nThe effect of laws relating to voidable floating charges varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some countries simply provide that such charge are automatically void or not enforceable, In other jurisdictions, they are only voidable and an application must be made by a liquidator or creditor for the floating charge to be set aside.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, a floating charge is only vulnerable to the extent that it does not secure new money for the company. So if a bank has a loan of £100 outstanding to a company, and it advances a further £50 but takes an \"all-monies\" floating charge as security, and the company goes into liquidation 3 months later, the floating charge will validly secure the £50 advance which was made at the time, but not the earlier £100. Legislation relating to voidable floating charges is intended to prevent abuse of a security interest which catches literally all of the assets of the company, and could be used by person to strip out all of the assets from a company in difficulty from the unsecured creditors. However, if the holder of the floating charge has inserted new money, then giving the holder a valid security up to the amount of the new money injected does not prejudice the position of the unsecured creditors.\n\nMost legislation relating to voidable floating charges is also expressed to apply to charges which, as created, were floating charges but which subsequently crystallised into fixed charges.\n"}
