{"id": "31638583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31638583", "title": "Affinity (taxonomy)", "text": "Affinity (taxonomy)\n\nAffinity (taxonomy) – mainly in life sciences or natural history – refers to resemblance suggesting a common descent, phylogenetic relationship, or type. The term does, however, have broader application, such as in geology (for example, in descriptive and theoretical works), and similarly in astronomy (for example, see \"Centaur object\" in the context of 2060 Chiron's close affinity with icy comet nuclei.)\n\nIn taxonomy the basis of any particular type of classification is the \"way in which objects in the domain resemble each other\". A resemblance of a type that seems appropriate to the classification that we propose, we may call an affinity, and when we decide how to classify say, a specimen of rock or butterfly, we justify our decision according to the affinities that we observe. \n\nOther resemblances we dismiss as being out of context or at least non-cogent; for example, in deciding whether to classify a lizard as having closer affinities to a snake than to a table, biologists rely on affinities such as the scales, blood, physiology, vertebral anatomy, and reproductive system as being more relevant than the possession of four \"feet\".\n\nAnalysing and determining the proper classification of an organism, a rock, or an astronomic object according to a particular system is often a difficult and treacherous procedure. Problems in such fields of study have tripped up whole generations of workers in recent centuries. When the position is not clear from an early stage, the first step after beginning to determine, evaluate, and describe the attributes of the object, is to determine the affinities and evaluate their significance. \n\nThe number of legs might well be a significant affinity in comparing different types of related organisms such as crustaceans, but irrelevant in comparing a ten-limbed cephalopod with a ten-limbed solifugid (including its pedipalps as limbs). Such a comparison would be no more cogent than the foregoing example of the lizard and the table.\n\nThere are many such examples in nature; we see both a lungfish and a porpoise as having closer (but largely different) affinities to a cow than to a tuna, and a bat as having closer affinities to a banteng than to a bird or a butterfly, although a banteng has no \"wings\". These are considerations arising from the principles discussed in articles on Homology (biology) and Analogy (biology). \n\nIt is clear that there is an element of subjectivity to the recognition of affinities; that is implicit in such dictionary definitions as: \"\"Affinity: the closeness of relation between plants as shown by similarity of important organs.\" That definition is over a century old, but it is typical of the basis on which taxonomists had to work till recently, and in practice still must use; it is not practical to sequence the genome of every specimen. Nucleic acid analyses are eroding many difficulties, but there is a long way to go.\n"}
{"id": "2890415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890415", "title": "Apprehension (understanding)", "text": "Apprehension (understanding)\n\nIn psychology, apprehension (Lat. \"ad\", \"to\"; \"prehendere\", \"to seize\") is a term applied to a model of consciousness in which nothing is affirmed or denied of the object in question, but the mind is merely aware of (\"seizes\") it.\n\n\"Judgment\" (says Reid, ed. Hamilton, i. p. 414) \"is an act of the mind, specifically different from simple apprehension or the bare conception of a thing\". \"Simple apprehension or conception can neither be true nor false.\" This distinction provides for the large class of mental acts in which we are simply aware of, or \"take in\" a number of familiar objects, about which we in general make no judgment, unless our attention is suddenly called by a new feature. Or again, two alternatives may be apprehended without any resultant judgment as to their respective merits.\n\nSimilarly, G.F. Stout stated that while we have a very vivid idea of a character or an incident in a work of fiction, we can hardly be said in any real sense to have any belief or to make any judgment as to its existence or truth. With this mental state may be compared the purely aesthetic contemplation of music, wherein apart from, say, a false note, the faculty of judgment is for the time inoperative. To these examples may be added the fact that one can fully understand an argument in all its bearings, without in any way judging its validity. Without going into the question fully, it may be pointed out that the distinction between judgment and apprehension is relative. In every kind of thought, there is judgment of some sort in a greater or less degree of prominence.\n\nJudgment and thought are in fact psychologically distinguishable merely as different, though correlative, activities of consciousness. Professor Stout further investigates the phenomena of apprehension, and comes to the conclusion that \"it is possible to distinguish and identify a whole without apprehending any of its constituent details.\" On the other hand, if the attention focuses itself for a time on the apprehended object, there is an expectation that such details will, as it were, emerge into consciousness. Hence, he describes such apprehension as \"implicit\", and insofar as the implicit apprehension determines the order of such emergence, he describes it as \"schematic\".\n\nA good example of this process is the use of formulae in calculations; ordinarily the formula is used without question; if attention is fixed upon it, the steps by which it is shown to be universally applicable emerge, and the \"schema \" is complete in detail. With this result may be compared Kant's theory of apprehension as a synthetic act (the \"synthesis of apprehension\") by which the sensory elements of a perception are subjected to the formal conditions of time and space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47372036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47372036", "title": "Bersih 4 rally", "text": "Bersih 4 rally\n\nThe Bersih 4 rally was a series of planned rallies carried out on 29 to 30 August 2015 in major cities in Malaysia, namely Kuala Lumpur, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching. There were subsequent rallies in over 70 cities around the world in support of the main rallies in Malaysia. The rallies were organised by The Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections (Malay: Gabungan Pilihanraya Bersih dan Adil) or Bersih (meaning clean in Malay) a coalition of non-government organisations which seeks to reform the current electoral system in Malaysia to ensure free, clean and fair elections. The rallies were being carried out with the objective to calling for clean and transparent governance in Malaysia as well as strengthening the parliamentary democracy system. The rallies are a followup to similar rallies that were carried out in 2007, 2011 and 2012. 30 August is the day before National Day which is on 31 August.\n\nIn the aftermath of the general elections in Malaysia in 2013 there were accusations by the opposition and non-governmental organisations that the government had cheated its way to another election victory. A series of rallies in 2013 were carried out protesting the results of the elections, whereby the opposition garnered a plurality of the votes but still lost the election due to the government gaining the most seats in the Westminster system of elections.\n\nIn 2015, a corruption scandal began to engulf Malaysia, involving a government super fund called 1Malaysia Development Berhad which was chaired by Prime Minister Najib Tun Razak. There were a series of exposes by online investigative blogs, namely Sarawak Report and major news portal Wall Street Journal that money was being siphoned off from the fund into personal accounts of Najib and his close relations. A Public Accounts Committee compromising government and opposition members of parliament was set up to investigate if there were major wrongdoings on the part of Najib and 1MDB. However, in July, the government began to stifle news reports regarding the 1MDB scandal by blocking the website Sarawak Report, which had been in forefront of exposes revealing the losses incurred by 1MDB and its connection to Najib, from the Malaysian internet community. The government then began to withdraw the publishing license of The Edge, a financial and news publication which was reporting the 1MDB scandal. Furthermore, on 28 July, Najib began removing detractors in his cabinet and government such as Abdul Gani Patail, the Attorney General of Malaysia who was part of the task force investigating the 1MDB scandal, his deputy Muhyiddin Yassin and four other ministers who were said to be critical of 1MDB and called for Najib to explain the issue to the Malaysian public. The Public Accounts Committee investigating the 1MDB scandal was also suspended indefinitely with the promotion of four of its members to Deputy Ministers by Najib.\n\nCurrently there is a court case challenging the re-delineation of electoral boundaries in Sarawak, which if carried out would affect the next state elections in Sarawak. The re-delineation of the seats in Sarawak would see an increase of 71 to 82 seats in the state assembly, but the current contention is there was no proper explanation given for the planned increase. Bersih has stated that the case, which has been successfully appealed by the Election Commission, would allow it to carry out acts of gerrymandering and malapportionment.\n\nBersih has set forth the following main objectives for their rallies:\n\nOpposition-owned media, \"Malay Mail\", claimed the rally was attended by Malaysians of all races, with a 50-50 ratio between Malays and non-Malays. However, international media like Bloomberg reported that organisers themselves admitted, only about 30 percent of people were Malay, with the rally dominated by ethnic Chinese who have drifted from Najib’s ruling coalition in recent years.\n\nThe following groups sent their members to the rallies:\n\nThe following group will not participate in the rallies:\n\nThe Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (SUHAKAM) has announced that peaceful assemblies like Bersih cannot be banned under the law, and that the police has provide convincing and compelling reasons to justify preventing Bersih's right to assemble as provided under the Peaceful Assembly Act. The Bar Council of Malaysia have stated that it is illegal for the police to prohibit the Bersih rally from going ahead. The Bar Council has also prepared a team of lawyers to provide legal assistance to rally participants should they be arrested by the police.\n\nA poll by Merdeka Center shows majority of Malaysian citizens oppose this rally (47% compare to 43% approve). 70% of Malays disapprove this rally while those who approve were the Internet-users, urbanites and Chinese.\n\nPrime Minister Najib Razak has describe the Bersih participants as 'shallow and poor' in patriotism. The Ministry of Home Affairs has released a gazetted order under the Printing Presses and Publications Act banning the wearing of yellow clothing with the wording 'Bersih 4' and any pamphlets promoting the rally. This was disputed by former Federal Court judge Gopal Sri Ram who said that with the exception of pamphlets or placards, Bersih 4 T-shirt does not fall under the definition of publications. The Higher Education Minister Idris Jusoh has warned undergraduates from participating in the Bersih rallies and that they would face action under the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971. The University Council and universities such as Universiti Teknologi MARA have warned on action to be taken on students who participate in the Bersih rallies, even threatening the students with suspension. The Malaysian Armed Forces chief Gen Zulkifeli Mohd Zin said that the military will intervene in the rallies if the government declares a state of emergency. Malaysian Navy has said action will be taken against navy personnel who took part in the Bersih rallies.\n\nThe Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC), who regulates internet usage in Malaysia has announced on their Facebook page that it would begin to block websites that promote and spread information regarding the Bersih rallies on grounds that the rallies threaten national stability. Bersih has condemn the MCMC's decision and has asked the public to email the MCMC to complain, while stating they would also seek legal recourse if the MCMC's ban is not lifted by the time the rallies' start. Deputy Minister of the Communications and Multimedia ministry Jailani Johari said that internet news portals will not be exempted from being blocked if they report on the Bersih rallies. Four websites have been blocked by the MCMC from being accessible to Malaysian internet users.\n\nA yellow Volkswagen Beetle that was going to be used in a roadshow to promote the Bersih 4 rally was vandalised and another vehicle a Mini Cooper will be used in its place. Bersih has started a photo campaign called \"Bersih 4 Global Countdown\" asking Malaysians all over the world to show their support for the rally by posting a picture of themselves with posters. Bersih has also announced record donations nearing 2 million ringgit. Furthermore, there have been records sales of yellow T-shirts with the Bersih logo with the shirts being sold out in a matter of days.\n\nA pro-government group Himpunan Solidariti Untuk Mu Malaysia (Solidarity gathering for you Malaysia) aims to gather about 10,000 people at the Putra World Trade Centre (PWTC) to counter the Bersih rallies. The police have started investigating the group after they gave an exhibition showing off weapons and martial arts like silat, in anticipation of violence. After the leader of the anti-Bersih group Jamal Md Yunos was questioned by the police about the group's intentions, he announced that the counter-rally would be called off.\n\nThe police have said that the rallies can go ahead with certain conditions, such as not disrupting businesses and inciting people to topple the government. Also ten days notice must be given to the police or a fine of RM10,000 would be meted out to the organisers as stipulated in the Peaceful Assembly Act 2012. Bersih has met up with police asking the police to ensure the safety and security of the participants, as well not to use tear gas as in previous Bersih rallies. Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar has requested that Bersih use Bukit Jalil National Stadium instead of Dataran Merdeka as not to disrupt national day preparations. Kuala Lumpur Mayor Datuk Mhd Amin Nordin Abdul Aziz has refused Bersih's request to hold the rally at Dataran Merdeka. Thousands of police officers have been deployed around Kuala Lumpur in preparation for the rally. Kuala Lumpur City Hall has advised Bersih to postpone their rally for a week, which was refused and also gave alternative venues such as Titiwangsa, Merdeka Stadium and the National Stadium. Bersih has said they will stay out Dataran Merdeka, but will protest within its vicinity, which will include resting on the streets of Kuala Lumpur in participants' own sleeping bags. Bersih has advised participants of the rally to bring sleeping bags, blankets and umbrellas, including food and drink during the duration of the rallies. Bersih has set up five gathering points for the participants to start out before heading to Dataran Merdeka: Sogo, Pasar Seni, Dataran Maybank, Brickfields and the National Mosque.\n\nBersih has also arranged for 2000 volunteers to ensure crowd control and security to replace PAS' Unit Amal which was responsible for that in previous Bersih rallies. New Hope Movement (GHB) will organised around 500 volunteers called the Amal Relief, while People's Justice Party will be sending 700 of their Youth Wing AMK SKUAD to help keep order and security for the rally. On Day 2, former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad and his wife, Dr. Siti Hasmah, attended the Bersih 4 rally, the rally saw tens of thousands demonstrating for Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak’s resignation.\n\nThe authorities have refused to grant a permit to Bersih to hold the rally at Padang Merdeka in Kuching and advised Bersih to seek alternative venues. Bersih has insisted that the rally in Padang Merdeka will go ahead despite the government's refusal to give them a permit, otherwise they have suggested the rally would be Song Kheng Hai recreational ground or Jubilee Ground Stadium. Bersih has been given the approval by the authorities to hold the Kuching rally at Song Kheng Hai field at Song Kheng Hai Food and Recreational Centre.\n\nBersih Sabah had announced that the Bersih rally would be at Tanjung Lipat waterfront esplanade on 29 Aug and will be much shorter than the Kuala Lumpur rally. Bersih has explained that the site is suitable to accommodate overnight camping and the number of interactive programmes planned during the rally. The rally here has been dubbed \"Democracy Fest\". However, due to mixed signals by the police, Bersih Sabah has announced that they will not be announcing the venue of rally in Kota Kinabalu due to police actions in previous rallies. The police has also released a statement that the Bersih rally at Tanjung Lipat will not be allowed to go ahead, reasoning that City Hall has not given Bersih permission to hold the rally there.\n\nThe group Global Bersih, based in Geneva representing the Malaysian diaspora around the world will be organising solidarity events in 50 cities around the world in support of the Bersih 4 rallies in Malaysia. Global Bersih has reported threats and intimidation against would-be participants around the world, including reports of Malaysian scholarship students abroad receiving threats of their scholarships being revoked if they participated in solidarity rallies.\n\nHundreds of rally-goers began assembling at the four gathering points in the city several hours ahead of the start of the rally at 2pm on the first day. It was estimated there were 250,000 participants who attended the rally in Kuala Lumpur on the first day, while at the low end the police estimate the crowd was 25,000. Unlike the previous rallies, the police did not mobilise the Federal Reserve Unit or use water cannons and tear gas on the protesters, but placed them on standby. After various events on the first day which included speeches and exercise activities, hundreds of participants began bedding down for the night in tents and sleeping mats in areas around the vicinity of Dataran Merdeka.\n\nIt was reported that unknown individuals had given out suspect packet drinks to participants causing 16 of the rally goers to suffer food poisoning. Bersih has said this was an act of sabotage, with the discovery of needle holes in the packet drinks.\n\nIn Kuching, thousands of rally goers began assembling a several points of city before making their way to the Tanjung Lipat waterfront: Song Kheng Hai rugby field, Sabah Trade Centre, Hakka Association Hall and City mosque and Plaza Juta. Many of participants began listening to speeches and poetry recitals before preparing barbecue sets, mattresses and tents for the overnight stay at Song Kheng Hai field.\n\nIn Kota Kinabalu, thousands of Bersih supporters showed up at the Taman Teluk Likas II park where they began to organise activities and events. Many supporters stayed overnight at the park, in preparation for the main event the next day which was the 'walk for democracy', whereby participants would converge on Kota Kinabalu city centre. However, due to police cordoning and putting up barricades in many spots around the city, the participants had to end their rally early on the second day after trying to make detours.\n\nThousands of rally-goers have been seen gathering in more than 70 cities around the globe in solidarity with the Bersih rallies in Kuala Lumpur, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching.\nThe rallies have taken placed in the following cities:\n\nThe event at the Federation Square in Melbourne, Australia drew over 5,000 people in support of the rally.\n\nIt was reported in a few separate incidents that 26 people were arrested wearing the Bersih 4 yellow T-shirts in Malacca and Nilai, Negri Sembilan, and also had their shirts confiscated.\n\nBersih has mentioned they might hold a fifth Bersih rally if their demands are not met. Bersih has proposed that transitional government be set up to bring about core institutional reforms, such as clean up the electoral roll, look into the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission and to call for fresh elections within 12 to 18 months.\n\nA counter rally was held by National Silat Federation (PESAKA) on 16 September (Malaysia Day) to support the premiership of Najib Razak. However the rally's motive has been questioned due to the fact that the rally goers are predominantly Malays and that it is racial in nature.\nThe rally organiser, also an UMNO Supreme Council member, Annuar Musa has admitted that the rally was racist in nature and participants were paid to take part in the rally.\n\n"}
{"id": "641055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641055", "title": "Bodymind", "text": "Bodymind\n\nBodymind is an approach to understand the relationship between the human body and mind in which they are seen as a single integrated unit. It attempts to address the mind–body problem and is in contrast to the traditions of mind–body dualism and dualism.\n\nIn the field of alternative medicine, bodymind implies that: \n\nThe term can be applied across a number of disciplines, including:\n\nThe term overlaps in significant ways, especially in its anti-dualist intention, with the philosophical term mindbody developed independently by philosopher William H. Poteat.\n\n"}
{"id": "56284235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56284235", "title": "Constructive development (biology)", "text": "Constructive development (biology)\n\nIn biology, constructive development refers to the hypothesis that organisms shape their own developmental trajectory by constantly responding to, and causing, changes in both their internal state and their external environment. Constructive development can be contrasted with programmed development, the hypothesis that organisms develop according to a genetic program or blueprint. The constructivist perspective is found in philosophy, most notably developmental systems theory, and in the biological and social sciences, including developmental psychobiology and key themes of the extended evolutionary synthesis. Constructive development may be important to evolution because it enables organisms to produce functional phenotypes in response to genetic or environmental perturbation, and thereby contributes to adaptation and diversification.\n\nAt any point in time, an organism’s development depends on both the current state of the organism and the state of the environment. The developmental system, including the genome and its epigenetic regulation, responds flexibly to internal and external inputs. One example is condition-dependent gene expression, but regulatory systems also rely on physical properties of cells and tissues and exploratory behavior among microtubular, neural, muscular and vascular systems.\n\nOrganisms inherit (i.e., receive from their predecessors) a diverse set of developmental resources, including DNA, epigenetic marks, organelles, enzymes, hormones, antibodies, transcription factors, symbionts, socially transmitted knowledge and environmental conditions modified by parents.\n\nIn the course of development, organisms help shape their internal and external environment, and in this way, influence their own development. Organisms also construct developmental environments for their offspring through various forms of extra-genetic inheritance.\n\nNo single source of influence has central control over an organism's development. Whilst the genetic influence on development is fundamental, causation does not only occur from the bottom up, but also flows ‘downwards’ from more complex levels of organismal organization (e.g., tissue-specific regulation of gene expression). The result is that many features of organisms are emergent properties that are not encoded in the genome.\n\nConstructive development is manifest in context-dependent gene expression, physical properties of cells and tissues, exploratory behavior of physiological systems and learning.\n\nAlthough all the cells of an organism contain the same DNA, there can be hundreds of different types of cells in a single organism. These diverse cell shapes, behaviors and functions are created and maintained by tissue-specific gene expression patterns and these can be modified by internal and external environmental conditions.\n\nAssembly of organs, tissues, cells and subcellular components are in part determined by their physical properties. For example, the cell membrane that forms a barrier between the inside and outside of the cell is a lipid bilayer that forms as result of the thermodynamic properties of the phospholipids it’s made of (hydrophilic head and hydrophobic tails).\n\nExploratory processes are selective processes that operate within individual organisms during their lifetimes. In many animals, the vascular, immune and nervous systems develop by producing a variety of forms, and the most functional solutions are selected for and retained, while others are lost. For example, the ‘shape’ of the circulatory system is constructed according to the oxygen and nutrient needs of tissues, rather than being genetically predetermined. Likewise, the nervous system develops through axonal exploration. Initially muscle fibers are connected to multiple neurons but synaptic competition selects certain connections over others to define the mature pattern of muscle innervation. The shape of a cell is determined by the structure of its cytoskeleton. A major element of the cytoskeleton are microtubules, which can grow in random directions from their origin. Microtubule-associated proteins can aid or inhibit microtubule growth, guide microtubules to specific cellular locations and mediate interactions with other proteins. Therefore, microtubules can be stabilized in new configurations that give rise to new cell shapes (and potentially new behaviors or functions) without changes to the microtubule system itself.\n\nIn animals, many behaviors are acquired through learning. Social learning and cultural transmission are important sources of adaptive phenotypic plasticity, enabling animals to adapt to their environments even if those environments have not frequently been encountered in the evolutionary history of the species. Social learning also enables stable inheritance of many characters. Cross-fostering of great tit and blue tit chicks show that social learning can result in stable inheritance of species-typical foraging behaviors (foraging height, prey type, prey size, foraging method) as well as nest site choice, alarm calls, songs, and mate choice. Recent killer whale research has demonstrated the divergence of orcas into several species mediated by learned and socially transmitted differences in diets.\n\nWithin evolutionary biology, development has been traditionally viewed as under the direction of a genetic program (e.g.), and metaphors such as genetic ‘blueprint’, ‘program’ or ‘instructions' are still widespread in biology textbooks. By contrast, the constructive development perspective views the genome as a sub-system of the cell shaped by evolution to detect and respond to the signals it receives. These different perspectives affect evolutionary interpretations. One example is the evolutionary significance of environmentally induced phenotypes. Mary Jane West-Eberhard famously suggested that responses to the environment can be the starting point for evolutionary change, termed ‘plasticity-led evolution’. From a programmed development perspective, developmental plasticity is considered to be controlled by genetically specified switches or reaction norms. For these to produce functional responses to environmental change, their reaction norms must have been pre-screened by prior selection. Therefore, ‘plasticity-led evolution’ reduces to the standard evolutionary explanation of natural selection acting on genetic variation. Conversely, ‘plasticity-led evolution’ gains greater significance if development is constructive and open-ended. New functional phenotypes can emerge with little or no initial genetic modification (see facilitated variation and ), and provide the new raw material on which natural selection can act (e.g.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15683521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15683521", "title": "Divine plane", "text": "Divine plane\n\nThe divine plane (hyperplane or continuum/universe, enclosing and interpenetrating grosser planes, respectively) is the plane in which Brahman and Om or Aum, i.e. Logos or Agathon, i.e. (according to Theosophy) spirit of deity (as Brahman, Logos i.e. Agathon, etc.,) i.e. the creative Word (as the Pranava Om or Aum, Logos, Tikkun, etc.) and ideal, exists. The term is from the Greek word 'Logos' and is used in the Arcane School ideas.\n\n'Classical' 1800s Theosophy does not say whether this spiritual plane is the only one that has to do with Logos is human, but Annie Besant & Charles Leadbeater may have said so, and Alice Bailey or others, who uses similar ideas, did say so.\n\n"}
{"id": "4270231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4270231", "title": "Ecotechnology", "text": "Ecotechnology\n\nEcotechnology - not to be confused with ecotechnics - is an applied science that seeks to fulfill human needs while causing minimal ecological disrupution, by harnessing and manipulating natural forces to leverage their beneficial effects. Ecotechnology integrates two fields of study: the 'ecology of technics' and the 'technics of ecology,' requiring an understanding of the structures and processes of ecosystems and societies. All sustainable engineering that can reduce damage to ecosystems, adopt ecology as a fundamental basis, and ensure conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development may be considered as forms of ecotechnology.\n\nEcotechnology emphasizes approaching a problem from a holistic point of view. For example, remediation of rivers should not only consider one single area. Rather, the whole catchment area, which includes the upstream, middle stream and downstream sections, should be considered.\n\nConstruction can reduce its impact on nature by consulting experts on the environment.\n\nSustainable development requires the implementation of environmentally friendly technologies which are both efficient and adapted to local conditions. Ecotechnology allows improvement in economic performance while minimizing harm to the environment by:\n\nDuring \"Ecotechnics '95 - International Symposium on Ecological Engineering\" in Östersund, Sweden, the participants agreed on the definition: \"Ecotechnics is defined as the method of designing future societies within ecological frames.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "496626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496626", "title": "Forbes 400", "text": "Forbes 400\n\nThe Forbes 400 or 400 Richest Americans is a list published by \"Forbes\" magazine of the wealthiest 400 American residents, ranked by net worth. The 400 was started by Malcolm Forbes in 1982 and the list is published annually around September. Peter W. Bernstein and Annalyn Swan describe the Forbes 400 as capturing \"a period of extraordinary individual and entrepreneurial energy, a time unlike the extended postwar years, from 1945 to 1982, when American society emphasized the power of corporations.\" Bernstein and Swan also describe it as representing \"a powerful argument – and sometimes a dream – about the social value of wealth in contemporary America.\" Daniel K Ludwig, a self made billionaire, was the first #1 individual to make the Forbes 400 \"Richest Americans\" list. Even though Ludwig was one of the wealthiest men of his day, with operations spanning 23 countries,[1] his name was little known. His fortune did not come from an inheritance, but from hard work and a thinking that was way ahead of his time...\n\nInherited wealth may help explain why many Americans who have become rich may have had a \"substantial head start\". In September 2012, according to the Institute for Policy Studies, \"over 60 percent\" of the Forbes richest 400 Americans \"grew up in substantial privilege\".\nThe list of members of the Forbes 400 is updated usually in September of each year.\n\nThe Forbes 400 reports who dominates the wealth in United States. They annually create a list of the richest people in America to exhibit the shape of the economy. The magazine displays the story of someone's rise to fame, their company, age, industrial residence, and education. The list portrays the financial shift of trends, leadership positions, and growing philanthropy intentions.\n\nIn the first Forbes 400 list, there were only 13 billionaires, and a net worth of million secured a spot on the list. The 1982 list represented 2.8% of the Gross Domestic Product of the United States. The 1982 Forbes 400 had 22.8% of the list composed of oil fortunes, with 15.3% from manufacturing, 9% from finance and only 3% from technology driven fortunes. The state of New York had the most representation on the list with 77 members followed by California with 48.\n\nIn the year 2000, Forbes 400 saw the highest percent of the Gross Domestic Product represented by the list at 12.2% driven by the internet boom.\n\nIn April 2018, an ex-\"Forbes\" reporter Jonathan Greenberg alleged that Donald Trump had inflated his actual wealth in order to be included on the Forbes 400 listing. Greenberg provided original audio recordings of his 1984 exchange with \"John Barron\", one of the pseudonyms of Donald Trump, and eventually included Trump at the end of the Forbes 400 list at $100 million, one fifth of the $500 million which \"Barron\" was claiming as Donald Trump’s net worth. This figure was later corrected and, following civil proceedings years later, Trump admitted the name was fabricated.\n\nOver the first 25 years of the Forbes 400 list, 1,302 distinct people made the list. In that time period, 97 immigrants (7.5%) and 202 women (15.5%) made the list. Four of the top five richest people in the United States in 2006 were college dropouts: Bill Gates, Sheldon Adelson, Larry Ellison, and Paul Allen.\n\nA few articles draw on data of the Forbes 400 to test an evolutionary hypothesis referred to as the Trivers–Willard hypothesis. This hypothesis predicts that parents of high socioeconomic status produce more male offspring than parents of lower socioeconomic status. Whereas an earlier study using data on the Forbes 400 shows a strong effect for U.S. billionaires that is consistent with the Trivers-Willard hypothesis, a more recent study shows some caveats: First, the result is only consistent for male, but not female, billionaires. Second, it can only be found among heirs and not self-made billionaires.\n\nThis has to do with the timing of wealth accumulation: some self-made billionaires had their children before they were rich, but heirs, by definition, were rich before ever becoming parents (see also ). Third, the size of the effect was largely overestimated, given that male offspring of billionaires as compared to female offspring is easier to find on the Web: Women sometimes change their last name upon marriage which makes some harder to find. Therefore, earlier reports on the male bias among billionaire offspring were partially an artifact of sample selection.\n\nIn 2010, a Business Insider ethnic-demographic breakdown of the Forbes 400 richest Americans found 3 gays, 4 Indians, 6 (non-Indian) Asians, and 34 women on the list. Additionally, American Jews made up as many as 30% of the richest 100, and (at least, in 2009) 139 of the Forbes 400. In 2017, just two African Americans made the Forbes 400: media proprietor Oprah Winfrey and tech investor Robert Smith; only five members of the Forbes 400 have Latino backgrounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177557", "title": "Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling", "text": "Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling (; 27 January 1775 – 20 August 1854), later (after 1812) von Schelling, was a German philosopher. Standard histories of philosophy make him the midpoint in the development of German idealism, situating him between Johann Gottlieb Fichte, his mentor in his early years, and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, his former university roommate, early friend, and later rival. Interpreting Schelling's philosophy is regarded as difficult because of its evolving nature.\n\nSchelling's thought in the large has been neglected, especially in the English-speaking world, as has been his later work on mythology and revelation, much of which remains untranslated. An important factor was the ascendancy of Hegel, whose mature works portray Schelling as a mere footnote in the development of idealism. Schelling's \"Naturphilosophie\" also has been attacked by scientists for its analogizing tendency and lack of empirical orientation. However, some later philosophers have shown interest in re-examining Schelling's body of work.\n\nSchelling was born in the town of Leonberg in the Duchy of Württemberg (now Baden-Württemberg), the son of Joseph Friedrich Schelling and his wife Gottliebin Marie. He attended the monastic school at Bebenhausen, near Tübingen, where his father was chaplain and an Orientalist professor. From 1783 to 1784 Schelling attended a Latin school in Nürtingen and knew Friedrich Hölderlin, who was five years his senior. On 18 October 1790, at the age of 15, he was granted permission to enroll at the Tübinger Stift (seminary of the Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Württemberg), despite not having yet reached the normal enrollment age of 20. At the Stift, he shared a room with Hegel as well as Hölderlin, and the three became good friends.\n\nSchelling studied the Church fathers and ancient Greek philosophers. His interest gradually shifted from Lutheran theology to philosophy. In 1792 he graduated with his master's thesis, titled \"Antiquissimi de prima malorum humanorum origine philosophematis Genes. III. explicandi tentamen criticum et philosophicum\", and in 1795 he finished his doctoral thesis, titled \"De Marcione Paulinarum epistolarum emendatore\" (\"On Marcion as emendator of the Pauline letters\") under Gottlob Christian Storr. Meanwhile, he had begun to study Kant and Fichte, who influenced him greatly.\n\nIn 1797, while tutoring two youths of an aristocratic family, he visited Leipzig as their escort and had a chance to attend lectures at Leipzig University, where he was fascinated by contemporary physical studies including chemistry and biology. He also visited Dresden, where he saw collections of the Elector of Saxony, to which he referred later in his thinking on art. On a personal level, this Dresden visit of six weeks from August 1797 saw Schelling meet the brothers August Wilhelm Schlegel and Karl Friedrich Schlegel and his future wife Caroline (then married to August Wilhelm), and Novalis.\n\nAfter two years tutoring, in October 1798, at the age of 23, Schelling was called to University of Jena as an extraordinary (i.e., unpaid) professor of philosophy. His time at Jena (1798–1803) put Schelling at the center of the intellectual ferment of Romanticism. He was on close terms with Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who appreciated the poetic quality of the \"Naturphilosophie\", reading \"Von der Weltseele\". As the prime minister of the Duchy of Saxe-Weimar, Goethe invited Schelling to Jena. On the other hand, Schelling was unsympathetic to the ethical idealism that animated the work of Friedrich Schiller, the other pillar of Weimar Classicism. Later, in Schelling's \"Vorlesung über die Philosophie der Kunst\" (\"Lecture on the Philosophy of Art\", 1802/03), Schiller's theory on the sublime was closely reviewed.\n\nIn Jena, Schelling was on good terms with Fichte at first, but their different conceptions, about nature in particular, led to increasing divergence in their thought. Fichte advised him to focus on philosophy in its original meaning, that is, transcendental philosophy: specifically, Fichte's own \"Wissenschaftlehre\". But Schelling, who was becoming the acknowledged leader of the Romantic school, had begun to reject Fichte's thought as cold and abstract.\n\nSchelling was especially close to August Wilhelm Schlegel and his wife, Caroline. A marriage between Schelling and Caroline's young daughter, Auguste Böhmer, was contemplated by both. Auguste died of dysentery in 1800, prompting many to blame Schelling, who had overseen her treatment. Robert Richards, however, argues in his book \"The Romantic Conception of Life\" that Schelling's interventions were not only appropriate but most likely irrelevant, as the doctors called to the scene assured everyone involved that Auguste's disease was inevitably fatal. Auguste's death drew Schelling and Caroline closer. Schlegel had moved to Berlin, and a divorce was arranged (with Goethe's help). Schelling's time at Jena came to an end, and on 2 June 1803 he and Caroline were married away from Jena. Their marriage ceremony was the last occasion Schelling met his school friend Hölderlin, who was already mentally ill at that time.\n\nIn his Jena period, Schelling had a closer relationship with Hegel again. With Schelling's help, Hegel became a private lecturer (\"Privatdozent\") at Jena University. Hegel wrote a book titled \"Differenz des Fichte'schen und Schelling'schen Systems der Philosophie\" (\"Difference between Fichte's and Schelling's Systems of Philosophy\", 1801), and supported Schelling's position against his idealistic predecessors, Fichte and Karl Leonhard Reinhold. Beginning in January 1802, Hegel and Schelling published the \"Kritisches Journal der Philosophie\" (\"Critical Journal of Philosophy\") as co-editors, publishing papers on the philosophy of nature, but Schelling was too busy to stay involved with the editing and the magazine was mainly Hegel's publication, espousing a thought different from Schelling's. The magazine ceased publication in the spring of 1803 when Schelling moved from Jena to Würzburg.\n\nAfter Jena, Schelling went to Bamberg for a time, to study Brunonian medicine (the theory of John Brown) with and Andreas Röschlaub. From September 1803 until April 1806 Schelling was professor at the new University of Würzburg. This period was marked by considerable flux in his views and by a final breach with Fichte and Hegel.\n\nIn Würzburg, a conservative Catholic city, Schelling found many enemies among his colleagues and in the government. He moved then to Munich in 1806, where he found a position as a state official, first as associate of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities and secretary of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, afterwards as secretary of the Philosophische Klasse (philosophical section) of the Academy of Sciences. 1806 was also the year Schelling published a book in which he criticized Fichte openly by name. In 1807 Schelling received the manuscript of Hegel's \"Phaenomenologie des Geistes\" (\"Phenomenology of the Spirit\" or \"Mind\"), which Hegel had sent to him, asking Schelling to write the foreword. Surprised to find remarks directed at his own philosophical theory, Schelling eventually wrote back, asking Hegel to clarify whether he had intended to mock Schelling's followers who lacked a true understanding of his thought, or Schelling himself. Hegel never replied. In the same year, Schelling gave a speech about the relation between the visual arts and nature at the Academy of Fine Arts; and Hegel wrote a severe criticism of it to one of his friends. After that, they criticized each other in lecture rooms and in books publicly until the end of their lives.\n\nWithout resigning his official position in Munich, he lectured for a short time in Stuttgart (\"Stuttgarter Privatvorlesungen\" [Stuttgart private lectures], 1810), and seven years at the University of Erlangen (1820–1827). In 1809 Karoline died, just before he published \"Freiheitschrift\" (\"Freedom Essay\") the last book published during his life. Three years later, introduced by Goethe, Schelling married one of her closest friends, Pauline Gotter, in whom he found a faithful companion.\n\nDuring the long stay at Munich (1806–1841) Schelling's literary activity came gradually to a standstill. It is possible that it was the overpowering strength and influence of the Hegelian system that constrained Schelling, for it was only in 1834, after the death of Hegel, that, in a preface to a translation by Hubert Beckers of a work by Victor Cousin, he gave public utterance to the antagonism in which he stood to the Hegelian, and to his own earlier, conception of philosophy. The antagonism certainly was not then a new fact; the Erlangen lectures on the history of philosophy of 1822 express the same in a pointed fashion, and Schelling had already begun the treatment of mythology and religion which in his view constituted the true positive complements to the negative of logical or speculative philosophy.\n\nPublic attention was powerfully attracted by these vague hints of a new system which promised something more positive, especially in its treatment of religion, than the apparent results of Hegel's teaching. The appearance of critical writings by David Friedrich Strauss, Feuerbach, and Bruno Bauer, and the evident disunion in the Hegelian school itself, express a growing alienation from the then dominant philosophy. In Berlin, the headquarters of the Hegelians, this found expression in attempts to obtain officially from Schelling a treatment of the new system which he was understood to have in reserve. The realization of the desire did not come about till 1841, when the appointment of Schelling as Prussian privy councillor and member of the Berlin Academy, gave him the right, a right he was requested to exercise, to deliver lectures in the university. Among those in attendance at his lectures were Søren Kierkegaard (who said Schelling talked \"quite insufferable nonsense\" and complained that he did not end his lectures on time), Mikhail Bakunin (who called them \"interesting but rather insignificant\"), Jacob Burckhardt, Alexander von Humboldt (who never accepted Schelling's natural philosophy), and Friedrich Engels (who, as a partisan of Hegel, attended to \"shield the great man's grave from abuse\"). The opening lecture of his course was listened to by a large and appreciative audience. The enmity of his old foe, H. E. G. Paulus, sharpened by Schelling's apparent success, led to the surreptitious publication of a verbatim report of the lectures on the philosophy of revelation, and, as Schelling did not succeed in obtaining legal condemnation and suppression of this piracy, he in 1845 ceased the delivery of any public courses.\n\nIn 1793 Schelling contributed to Heinrich Eberhard Gottlob Paulus's periodical \"Memorabilien\". His 1795 dissertation was \"De Marcione Paullinarum epistolarum emendatore\" (\"On Marcion as emendator of the Pauline letters\"). In 1794, Schelling published an exposition of Fichte's thought entitled \"Ueber die Möglichkeit einer Form der Philosophie überhaupt\" (\"On the Possibility of a Form of Philosophy in General\"). This work was acknowledged by Fichte himself and immediately earned Schelling a reputation among philosophers. His more elaborate work, \"Vom Ich als Prinzip der Philosophie, oder über das Unbedingte im menschlichen Wissen\" (\"On Self as Principle of Philosophy, or on the Unrestricted in Human Knowledge\", 1795), while still remaining within the limits of the Fichtean idealism, showed a tendency to give the Fichtean method a more objective application, and to amalgamate Spinoza's views with it. He contributed articles and reviews to the \"Philosophisches Journal\" of Fichte and Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer, and threw himself into the study of physical and medical science. In 1795 Schelling published \"Philosophische Briefe über Dogmatismus und Kritizismus\" (\"Philosophical Letters on Dogmatism and Criticism\"), consisting of 10 letters addressed to an unknown interlocutor that presented both a defense and critique of the Kantian system.\n\nIn the period 1796/97 there was written the seminal manuscript now known as the \"Das älteste Systemprogramm des deutschen Idealismus\" (\"The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism\"). It survives in Hegel's handwriting. On its first publication (1916) by Franz Rosenzweig, it was attributed to Schelling. It has also been claimed for Hegel and Hölderlin.\n\nIn 1797 Schelling published the essay \"Neue Deduction des Naturrechts\" (\"New Deduction of Natural Law\"), which anticipated Fichte's treatment of the topic in the \"Grundlage des Naturrechts\" (\"Foundations of Natural Law\"). His studies of physical science bore fruit in the \"Ideen zu einer Philosophie der Natur\" (\"Ideas Concerning a Philosophy of Nature\", 1797), and the treatise \"Von der Weltseele\" (\"On the World-Soul\", 1798). In \"Ideen\" Schelling referred to Leibniz and quoted from his \"Monadology\". He held Leibniz in high regard because of his view of nature during his natural philosophy period.\n\nIn 1800 Schelling published \"System des transcendentalen Idealismus\" (\"System of Transcendental Idealism\"). In this book Schelling described transcendental philosophy and nature philosophy as complementary to one another. Fichte reacted by stating that Schelling was working on the basis of a false philosophical principle: in Fichte's theory nature as Not-Self (\"Nicht-Ich\" = object) could not be a subject of philosophy, whose essential content is the subjective activity of the human intellect. The breach became unrecoverable in 1801, after Schelling published \"Darstellung des Systems meiner Philosophie\" (\"Presentation of My System of Philosophy\"). Fichte thought this title absurd, since in his opinion philosophy could not be personalized. Moreover, in this book Schelling publicly expressed his estimation of Spinoza, whose work Fichte had repudiated as dogmatism, and declared that nature and spirit differ only in their quantity, but are essentially identical (\"Identität\"). According to Schelling, the absolute was the indifference or identity, which he considered to be an essential subject of philosophy.\n\nThe \"Aphorisms on \"Naturphilosophie\"\" published in the \"Jahrbücher der Medicin als Wissenschaft\" (1806–1808) are for the most part extracts from the Würzburg lectures, and the \"Denkmal der Schrift von den göttlichen Dingen des Herrn Jacobi\" was a response to an attack by Jacobi (the two accused each other of atheism). A work of significance is the 1809 \"Philosophische Untersuchungen über das Wesen der menschlichen Freiheit und die damit zusammenhängenden Gegenstände\" (\"Philosophical Inquiries into the Essence of Human Freedom\"), which carries out, with increasing tendency to mysticism, the thoughts of the previous work, \"Philosophie und Religion\" (\"Philosophy and Religion\", 1804). However, in a change from the Jena period works, now evil is not an appearance coming from the quantitative differences between the real and the ideal, but something substantial. This work clearly paraphrased Kant's distinction between intelligible and empirical character. Otherwise, Schelling himself called freedom \"a capacity for good and evil\".\n\nThe tract \"Ueber die Gottheiten zu Samothrake\" (\"On the Divinities of Samothrace\") appeared in 1815, ostensibly a portion of a greater work, \"Weltalter\" (\"The ages of the world\"), frequently announced as ready for publication, but of which little was ever written. Schelling planned \"Weltalter\" as a book in three parts, describing the past, present, and future of the world; however, he began only the first part, rewriting it several times and at last keeping it unpublished. The other two parts were left only in planning. Christopher John Murray describes the work as follows:\nBuilding on the premise that philosophy cannot ultimately explain existence, he merges the earlier philosophies of Nature and identity with his newfound belief in a fundamental conflict between a dark unconscious principle and a conscious principle in God. God makes the universe intelligible by relating to the ground of the real but, insofar as nature is not complete intelligence, the real exists as a lack within the ideal and not as reflective of the ideal itself. The three universal ages — distinct only to us but not in the eternal God — therefore comprise a beginning where the principle of God before God is divine will striving for being, the present age, which is still part of this growth and hence a mediated fulfillment, and a finality where God is consciously and consummately Himself to Himself.\nNo authentic information on the new positive philosophy (\"positive Philosophie\") of Schelling was available until after his death (at Bad Ragatz, on 20 August 1854). His sons then began the issue of his collected writings with the four volumes of Berlin lectures: vol. i. \"Introduction to the Philosophy of Mythology\" (1856); ii. \"Philosophy of Mythology\" (1857); iii. and iv. \"Philosophy of Revelation\" (1858).\n\nSchelling at all stages of his thought called to his aid outward forms of some other system. Fichte, Spinoza, Jakob Boehme and the mystics, and finally, major Greek thinkers with their Neoplatonic, Gnostic, and Scholastic commentators, give colouring to particular works. In Schelling's own view, his philosophy fell into three stages. These were:\n\nThe function of Schelling's \"Naturphilosophie\" is to exhibit the ideal as springing from the real. The change which experience brings before us leads to the conception of duality, the polar opposition through which nature expresses itself. The dynamical series of stages in nature are matter, as the equilibrium of the fundamental expansive and contractive forces; light, with its subordinate processes (magnetism, electricity, and chemical action); organism, with its component phases of reproduction, irritability and sensibility.\n\nSome scholars characterize Schelling as a protean thinker who, although brilliant, jumped from one subject to another and lacked the synthesizing power needed to arrive at a complete philosophical system. Others challenge the notion that Schelling's thought is marked by profound breaks, instead arguing that his philosophy always focused on a few common themes, especially human freedom, the absolute, and the relationship between spirit and nature. Unlike Hegel, Schelling did not believe that the absolute could be known in its true character through rational inquiry alone.\n\nSchelling's thought is still studied, although his reputation has varied over time. His work impressed the English romantic poet and critic Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who introduced his ideas into English-speaking culture, sometimes without full acknowledgment, as in the \"Biographia Literaria\". Coleridge's critical work was itself influential, and it was he who introduced into English literature Schelling's concept of the unconscious. Schelling's \"System of Transcendental Idealism\" has been seen as a precursor of Sigmund Freud's \"Interpretation of Dreams\" (1899).\n\nBy the 1950s, Schelling was almost a forgotten philosopher even in Germany. In the 1910s and 1920s, philosophers of neo-Kantianism and neo-Hegelianism, like Wilhelm Windelband or Richard Kroner, tended to describe Schelling as an episode connecting Fichte and Hegel. His late period tended to be ignored, and his philosophies of nature and of art in the 1790s and first decade of the 19th century were the main focus. In this context Kuno Fischer characterized Schelling's early philosophy as \"aesthetic idealism\", focusing on the argument where he ranked art as \"the sole document and the eternal organ of philosophy\" (\"das einzige wahre und ewige Organon zugleich und Dokument der Philosophie\"). From socialist philosophers like György Lukács, he received criticism as anachronistic. An exception was Martin Heidegger, who treated Schelling's \"On Human Freedom\" in his lectures in 1936. Heidegger found there central themes of Western ontology: the issues of being, existence, and freedom.\n\nIn the 1950s, the situation began to change. In 1954, the centennial of his death, an international conference on Schelling was held. Several philosophers including Karl Jaspers gave presentations about the uniqueness and relevance of his thought, the interest shifting toward his later work on being and existence, or, more precisely, the origin of existence. Schelling was the subject of the 1954 dissertation of Jürgen Habermas.\n\nIn 1955 Jaspers published a book titled \"Schelling\", representing him as a forerunner of the existentialists. Walter Schulz, one of organizers of the 1954 conference, published a book claiming that Schelling had made German idealism complete with his late philosophy, particularly with his Berlin lectures in the 1840s. Schulz presented Schelling as the person who resolved the philosophical problems which Hegel had left incomplete, in contrast to the contemporary idea that Schelling had been surpassed by Hegel much earlier. Theologian Paul Tillich wrote: \"what I learned from Schelling became determinative of my own philosophical and theological development\". Maurice Merleau-Ponty likened his own project of natural ontology to Schelling's in his 1957-58 Course on Nature.\n\nIn the 1970s nature was again of interest to philosophers in relation to environmental issues. Schelling's philosophy of nature, particularly his intention to construct a program which covers both nature and the intellectual life in a single system and method, and restore nature as a central theme of philosophy, has been reevaluated in the contemporary context. His influence and relation to the German art scene, particularly to Romantic literature and visual art, has been an interest since the late 1960s, from Philipp Otto Runge to Gerhard Richter and Joseph Beuys. This interest has been revived in recent years through the work of the environmental philosopher Arran Gare who has identified a tradition of Schellingian science overcoming the opposition between science and the humanities, and offering the basis for an understanding of ecological science and ecological philosophy.\n\nIn relation to psychology, Schelling was considered to have coined the term \"unconsciousness\". Slavoj Žižek has written two books attempting to integrate Schelling's philosophy, mainly his middle period works including \"Weltalter\", with the work of Jacques Lacan. The opposition and division in God and thus the problem of evil in God faced by the later Schelling influenced Luigi Pareyson's thought. Ken Wilber places Schelling as one of two philosophers who \"after Plato, had the broadest impact on the Western mind\".\n\n\nSelected works are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "869876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869876", "title": "Geologic modelling", "text": "Geologic modelling\n\nGeologic modelling, Geological modelling or Geomodelling is the applied science of creating computerized representations of portions of the Earth's crust based on geophysical and geological observations made on and below the Earth surface. A Geomodel is the numerical equivalent of a three-dimensional geological map complemented by a description of physical quantities in the domain of interest.\nGeomodelling is related to the concept of Shared Earth Model; \nwhich is a multidisciplinary, interoperable and updatable knowledge base about the subsurface.\n\nGeomodelling is commonly used for managing natural resources, identifying natural hazards, and quantifying geological processes, with main applications to oil and gas fields, groundwater aquifers and ore deposits. For example, in the oil and gas industry, realistic geologic models are required as input to reservoir simulator programs, which predict the behavior of the rocks under various hydrocarbon recovery scenarios. A reservoir can only be developed and produced once; therefore, making a mistake by selecting a site with poor conditions for development is tragic and wasteful. Using geological models and reservoir simulation allows reservoir engineers to identify which recovery options offer the safest and most economic, efficient, and effective development plan for a particular reservoir.\n\nGeologic modelling is a relatively recent subdiscipline of geology which integrates structural geology, sedimentology, stratigraphy, paleoclimatology, and diagenesis;\n\nIn 2-dimensions (2D), a geologic formation or unit is represented by a polygon, which can be bounded by faults, unconformities or by its lateral extent, or crop. In geological models a geological unit is bounded by 3-dimensional (3D) triangulated or gridded surfaces. The equivalent to the mapped polygon is the fully enclosed geological unit, using a triangulated mesh. For the purpose of property or fluid modelling these volumes can be separated further into an array of cells, often referred to as voxels (volumetric elements). These 3D grids are the equivalent to 2D grids used to express properties of single surfaces.\n\nGeomodelling generally involves the following steps: \n\nIncorporating the spatial positions of the major formation boundaries, including the effects of faulting, folding, and erosion (unconformities). The major stratigraphic divisions are further subdivided into layers of cells with differing geometries with relation to the bounding surfaces (parallel to top, parallel to base, proportional). Maximum cell dimensions are dictated by the minimum sizes of the features to be resolved (everyday example: On a digital map of a city, the location of a city park might be adequately resolved by one big green pixel, but to define the locations of the basketball court, the baseball field, and the pool, much smaller pixels - higher resolution - need to be used).\n\nEach cell in the model is assigned a rock type. In a coastal clastic environment, these might be beach sand, high water energy marine upper shoreface sand, intermediate water energy marine lower shoreface sand, and deeper low energy marine silt and shale. The distribution of these rock types within the model is controlled by several methods, including map boundary polygons, rock type probability maps, or statistically emplaced based on sufficiently closely spaced well data.\n\nReservoir quality parameters almost always include porosity and permeability, but may include measures of clay content, cementation factors, and other factors that affect the storage and deliverability of fluids contained in the pores of those rocks. Geostatistical techniques are most often used to populate the cells with porosity and permeability values that are appropriate for the rock type of each cell.\n\nMost rock is completely saturated with groundwater. Sometimes, under the right conditions, some of the pore space in the rock is occupied by other liquids or gases. In the energy industry, oil and natural gas are the fluids most commonly being modelled. The preferred methods for calculating hydrocarbon saturations in a geologic model incorporate an estimate of pore throat size, the densities of the fluids, and the height of the cell above the water contact, since these factors exert the strongest influence on capillary action, which ultimately controls fluid saturations.\n\nAn important part of geologic modelling is related to geostatistics. In order to represent the observed data, often\nnot on regular grids, we have to use certain interpolation techniques. The most widely used technique is kriging\nwhich uses the spatial correlation among data and intends to construct the interpolation via semi-variograms. To reproduce more realistic spatial variability and help assess spatial uncertainty between data, geostatistical simulation based on variograms, training images, or parametric geological objects is often used.\n\nGeologists involved in mining and mineral exploration use geologic modelling to determine the geometry and placement of mineral deposits in the subsurface of the earth. Geologic models help define the volume and concentration of minerals, to which economic constraints are applied to determine the economic value of the mineralization. Mineral deposits that are deemed to be economic may be developed into a mine.\n\nGeomodelling and CAD share a lot of common technologies. Software is usually implemented using object-oriented programming technologies in C++, Java or C# on one or multiple computer platforms. The graphical user interface generally consists of one or several 3D and 2D graphics windows to visualize spatial data, interpretations and modelling output. Such visualization is generally achieved by exploiting graphics hardware. User interaction is mostly performed through mouse and keyboard, although 3D pointing devices and immersive environments may be used in some specific cases. GIS (Geographic Information System) is also a widely used tool to manipulate geological data.\n\nGeometric objects are represented with parametric curves and surfaces or discrete models such as polygonal meshes.\n\nProblems pertainting to Geomodelling cover:\n\nIn the 70's, geomodelling mainly consisted of automatic 2D cartographic techniques such as contouring, implemented as FORTRAN routines communicating directly with plotting hardware. The advent of workstations with 3D graphics capabilities during the 80's gave birth to a new generation of geomodelling software with graphical user interface which became mature during the 90's.\n\nSince its inception, geomodelling has been mainly motivated and supported by oil and gas industry.\n\nSoftware developers have built several packages for geologic modelling purposes. Such software can display, edit, digitise and automatically calculate the parameters required by engineers, geologists and surveyors. Current software is mainly developed and commercialized by oil and gas or mining industry software vendors:\n\n\nMoreover, industry Consortia or companies are specifically working at improving standardization and interoperability of earth science databases and geomodelling software: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3900344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3900344", "title": "Hempel's dilemma", "text": "Hempel's dilemma\n\nHempel's dilemma is a question first asked (at least on record) by the philosopher Carl Hempel. It has relevance to naturalism and physicalism in philosophy, and to philosophy of mind.\n\nPhysicalism, in at least one rough sense, is the claim that the entire world may be described and explained using the laws of nature, in other words, that all phenomena are natural phenomena. This leaves open the question of what is 'natural', but one common understanding of the claim is that everything in the world is ultimately explicable in the terms of physics. This is known as reductive physicalism. However, this type of physicalism in its turn leaves open the question of what we are to consider as the proper terms of physics. There seem to be two options here, and these options form the horns of Hempel's dilemma, because neither seems satisfactory.\n\nOn the one hand, we may define the physical as whatever is currently explained by our best physical theories, e.g., quantum mechanics, general relativity. Though many would find this definition unsatisfactory, some would accept that we have at least a general understanding of the physical based on these theories, and can use them to assess what is physical and what is not. And therein lies the rub, as a worked-out explanation of mentality currently lies outside the scope of such theories.\n\nOn the other hand, if we say that some future, \"ideal\" physics is what is meant, then the claim is rather empty, for we have no idea of what this means. The \"ideal\" physics may even come to define what we think of as mental as part of the physical world. In effect, physicalism by this second account becomes the circular claim that all phenomena are explicable in terms of physics because physics properly defined is whatever explains all phenomena.\n\nBeenakker has proposed to resolve Hempel's dilemma with the definition: \"The boundary between physics and metaphysics is the boundary between what can and what cannot be computed in the age of the universe\".\n\nHempel's dilemma is relevant to philosophy of mind because explanations of issues such as consciousness, representation, and intentionality are very hard to come by using current physics although many people in philosophy (and other fields such as cognitive science, psychology, and neuroscience) hold to physicalism.\n"}
{"id": "14036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14036", "title": "Hinayana", "text": "Hinayana\n\n\"Hīnayāna\" () is a Sanskrit term literally meaning the \"inferior vehicle\". Tibetan teachers translate it \"smaller vehicle\". The term was applied to the \"Śrāvakayāna\", the Buddhist path followed by a śrāvaka who wished to become an arhat. This pejorative term appeared around the first or second century. Hīnayāna was often contrasted with \"Mahāyāna\", which means the \"great vehicle\".\n\nIn 1950 the World Fellowship of Buddhists declared that the term Hīnayana should not be used when referring to any form of Buddhism existing today.\n\nIn the past, the term was widely used by Western scholars to cover \"the earliest system of Buddhist doctrine\", as the \"Monier-Williams Sanskrit-English Dictionary\" put it. Modern Buddhist scholarship has deprecated the pejorative term, and uses instead the term \"Nikaya Buddhism\" to refer to early Buddhist schools. \n\n\"Hinayana\" has also been used as a synonym for Theravada, which is the main tradition of Buddhism in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia; this is considered inaccurate and derogatory. Robert Thurman writes, \"'Nikaya Buddhism' is a coinage of Professor Masatoshi Nagatomi of Harvard University, who suggested it to me as a usage for the eighteen schools of Indian Buddhism to avoid the term 'Hinayana Buddhism,' which is found offensive by some members of the Theravada tradition.\" \n\nWithin Mahayana Buddhism, there were a variety of interpretations as to whom or to what the term \"Hinayana\" referred. Kalu Rinpoche stated the \"lesser\" or \"greater\" designation \"did not refer to economic or social status, but concerned the spiritual capacities of the practitioner\".\nThe Chinese monk Yijing, who visited India in the 7th century, distinguished Mahāyāna from Hīnayāna as follows:\nThe word \"hīnayāna\" is formed of \"hīna\": \"little\", \"poor\", \"inferior\", \"abandoned\", \"deficient\", \"defective\"; and \"yāna\" (यान): \"vehicle\", where \"vehicle\" means \"a way of going to enlightenment\". The Pali Text Society's \"Pali-English Dictionary\" (1921–25) defines \"hīna\" in even stronger terms, with a semantic field that includes \"poor, miserable; vile, base, abject, contemptible\", and \"despicable\".\n\nThe term was translated by Kumārajīva and others into Classical Chinese as \"small vehicle\" (小 meaning \"small\", 乘 meaning \"vehicle\"), although earlier and more accurate translations of the term also exist. In Mongolian (\"Baga Holgon\") the term for hinayana also means \"small\" or \"lesser\" vehicle, while in Tibetan there are at least two words to designate the term, \"theg chung\" meaning \"small vehicle\" and \"theg dman\" meaning \"inferior vehicle\" or \"inferior spiritual approach\".\n\nThrangu Rinpoche has emphasized that \"hinayana\" is in no way implying \"inferior\". In his translation and commentary of Asanga's \"Distinguishing Dharma from Dharmata\", he writes, \"all three traditions of hinayana, mahayana, and vajrayana were practiced in Tibet and that the hinayana which literally means \"lesser vehicle\" is in no way inferior to the mahayana.\"\n\nAccording to Jan Nattier, it is most likely that the term Hīnayāna postdates the term Mahāyāna and was only added at a later date due to antagonism and conflict between the bodhisattva and śrāvaka ideals. The sequence of terms then began with the term \"Bodhisattvayāna\" \"bodhisattva-vehicle\", which was given the epithet Mahāyāna \"Great Vehicle\". It was only later, after attitudes toward the bodhisattva teachings had become more critical, that the term Hīnayāna was created as a back-formation, contrasting with the already established term Mahāyāna. The earliest Mahāyāna texts often use the term Mahāyāna as an epithet and synonym for Bodhisattvayāna, but the term Hīnayāna is comparatively rare in early texts, and is usually not found at all in the earliest translations. Therefore, the often-perceived symmetry between Mahāyāna and Hīnayāna can be deceptive, as the terms were not actually coined in relation to one another in the same era.\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, \"the deep-rooted misconception concerning an unfailing, ubiquitous fierce criticism of the Lesser Vehicle by the [Mahāyāna] is not supported by our texts.\" Williams states that while evidence of conflict is present in some cases, there is also substantial evidence demonstrating peaceful coexistence between the two traditions.\n\nAlthough the 18–20 early Buddhist schools are sometimes loosely classified as Hīnayāna in modern times, this is not necessarily accurate. There is no evidence that Mahāyāna ever referred to a separate formal school of Buddhism but rather as a certain set of ideals, and later doctrines. Paul Williams has also noted that the Mahāyāna never had nor ever attempted to have a separate vinaya or ordination lineage from the early Buddhist schools, and therefore bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs adhering to the Mahāyāna formally adheres to the vinaya of an early school. This continues today with the Dharmaguptaka ordination lineage in East Asia and the Mūlasarvāstivāda ordination lineage in Tibetan Buddhism. Mahāyāna was never a separate sect of the early schools. From Chinese monks visiting India, we now know that both Mahāyāna and non-Mahāyāna monks in India often lived in the same monasteries side by side.\n\nThe Chinese Buddhist monk and pilgrim Yijing wrote about the relationship between the various \"vehicles\" and the early Buddhist schools in India. He wrote, \"There exist in the West numerous subdivisions of the schools which have different origins, but there are only four principal schools of continuous tradition.\" These schools are the Mahāsāṃghika Nikāya, Sthavira nikāya, Mūlasarvāstivāda Nikāya, and Saṃmitīya Nikāya. Explaining their doctrinal affiliations, he then writes, \"Which of the four schools should be grouped with the Mahāyāna or with the Hīnayāna is not determined.\" That is to say, there was no simple correspondence between a Buddhist school and whether its members learn \"Hīnayāna\" or \"Mahāyāna\" teachings.\n\nTo identify entire schools as \"Hīnayāna\" that contained not only śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas but also Mahāyāna bodhisattvas would be attacking the schools of their fellow Mahāyānists as well as their own. Instead, what is demonstrated in the definition of \"Hīnayāna\" given by Yijing is that the term referred to individuals based on doctrinal differences.\n\nScholar Isabelle Onians asserts that although \"the Mahāyāna ... very occasionally referred to earlier Buddhism as the Hinayāna, the Inferior Way, [...] the preponderance of this name in the secondary literature is far out of proportion to occurrences in the Indian texts.\" She notes that the term Śrāvakayāna was \"the more politically correct and much more usual\" term used by Mahāyānists. Jonathan Silk has argued that the term \"Hinayana\" was used to refer to whomever one wanted to criticize on any given occasion, and did not refer to any definite grouping of Buddhists.\n\nIn the 7th century, the Chinese Buddhist monk Xuanzang describes the concurrent existence of the Mahāvihara and the Abhayagiri vihāra in Sri Lanka. He refers to the monks of the Mahāvihara as the \"Hīnayāna Sthaviras\" and the monks of Abhayagiri vihāra as the \"Mahāyāna Sthaviras\". Xuanzang further writes, \"The Mahāvihāravāsins reject the Mahāyāna and practice the Hīnayāna, while the Abhayagirivihāravāsins study both Hīnayāna and Mahāyāna teachings and propagate the \"Tripiṭaka\".\"\n\nMahayanists were primarily in philosophical dialectic with the Vaibhāṣika school of Sarvāstivāda, which had by far the most \"comprehensive edifice of doctrinal systematics\" of the nikāya schools. With this in mind it is sometimes argued that the Theravada would not have been considered a \"Hinayana\" school by Mahayanists because, unlike the now-extinct Sarvastivada school, the primary object of Mahayana criticism, the Theravada school does not claim the existence of independent dharmas; in this it maintains the attitude of early Buddhism. Additionally, the concept of the bodhisattva as one who puts off enlightenment rather than reaching awakening as soon as possible, has no roots in Theravada textual or cultural contexts, current or historical. Aside from the Theravada schools being geographically distant from the Mahayana, the Hinayana distinction is used in reference to certain views and practices that had become found within the Mahayana tradition itself. Theravada, as well as Mahayana schools stress the urgency of one's own awakening in order to end suffering. Some contemporary Theravadin figures have thus indicated a sympathetic stance toward the Mahayana philosophy found in the \"Heart Sutra\" and the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\".\n\nThe Mahayanists were bothered by the substantialist thought of the Sarvāstivādins and Sautrāntikins, and in emphasizing the doctrine of śūnyatā, David Kalupahana holds that they endeavored to preserve the early teaching. The Theravadins too refuted the Sarvāstivādins and Sautrāntikins (and followers of other schools) on the grounds that their theories were in conflict with the non-substantialism of the canon. The Theravada arguments are preserved in the \"Kathavatthu\".\n\nMost western scholars regard the Theravada school to be one of the Hinayana schools referred to in Mahayana literature, or regard Hinayana as a synonym for Theravada. These scholars understand the term to refer to schools of Buddhism that did not accept the teachings of the Mahāyāna sūtras as authentic teachings of the Buddha. At the same time, scholars have objected to the pejorative connotation of the term Hinayana and some scholars do not use it for any school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274341", "title": "Homage (arts)", "text": "Homage (arts)\n\nHomage ( or ) is a show or demonstration of respect or dedication to someone or something, sometimes by simple declaration but often by some more oblique reference, artistic or poetic. The term is often used in the arts for where one author or artist shows respect to another by allusion or imitation; this is often pronounced like the French \"hommage\" ().\n\nIt was originally a declaration of fealty in the feudal system—swearing that one was the man (French: \"homme\") of the feudal lord. The concept then became used figuratively for an acknowledgement of quality or superiority. For example, a man might give homage to a lady, so honouring her beauty and other graces. In German scholarship, followers of a great scholar developed the custom of honouring their mentor by producing papers for a \"festschrift\" dedicated to him.\n\nIn music homage can take the form of a composition (\"Homage to Paderewski\"), a tribute album (\"Homage to Charles Parker\") or a sample. , the digital techniques used to generate many forms of media make it easy to borrow from other works and this remediation may be used in homage to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "17644927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644927", "title": "Illusory superiority", "text": "Illusory superiority\n\nIn the field of social psychology, illusory superiority is a condition of cognitive bias whereby a person overestimates their own qualities and abilities, in relation to the same qualities and abilities of other persons. Illusory superiority is one of many positive illusions, relating to the self, that are evident in the study of intelligence, the effective performance of tasks and tests, and the possession of desirable personal characteristics and personality traits.\n\nThe term \"illusory superiority\" first was used by the researchers Van Yperen and Buunk, in 1991. The condition is also known as the Above-average effect, the superiority bias, the leniency error, the sense of relative superiority, the \"primus inter pares\" effect,\n\nIllusory superiority has been found in individuals' comparisons of themselves with others in a variety of aspects of life, including performance in academic circumstances (such as class performance, exams and overall intelligence), in working environments (for example in job performance), and in social settings (for example in estimating one's popularity, or the extent to which one possesses desirable personality traits, such as honesty or confidence), and in everyday abilities requiring particular skill.\n\nFor \"illusory\" superiority to be demonstrated by social comparison, two logical hurdles have to be overcome. One is the ambiguity of the word \"average\". It is logically possible for nearly all of the set to be above the mean if the distribution of abilities is highly skewed. For example, the mean number of legs per human being is slightly lower than two because some people have fewer than two and almost none have more. Hence experiments usually compare subjects to the median of the peer group, since by definition it is impossible for a majority to exceed the median.\n\nA further problem in inferring inconsistency is that subjects might interpret the question in different ways, so it is logically possible that a majority of them are, for example, more generous than the rest of the group each on \"their own understanding\" of generosity. This interpretation is confirmed by experiments which varied the amount of interpretive freedom. As subjects evaluated themselves on a specific, well-defined attribute, illusory superiority remains.\n\nOne of the main effects of illusory superiority in IQ is the \"Downing effect\". This describes the tendency of people with a below-average IQ to overestimate their IQ, and of people with an above-average IQ to underestimate their IQ. This tendency was first observed by C. L. Downing, who conducted the first cross-cultural studies on perceived intelligence. His studies also showed that the ability to accurately estimate other people's IQs was proportional to one's own IQ (i.e., the lower the IQ, the less capable of accurately appraising other people's IQs). People with high IQs are better overall at appraising other people's IQs, but when asked about the IQs of people with similar IQs as themselves, they are likely to rate them as having higher IQs.\n\nThe disparity between actual IQ and perceived IQ has also been noted between genders by British psychologist Adrian Furnham, in whose work there was a suggestion that, on average, men are more likely to overestimate their intelligence by 5 points, while women are more likely to underestimate their IQ by a similar margin.\n\nIllusory superiority has been found in studies comparing memory self-reports, such as Schmidt, Berg & Deelman's research in older adults. This study involved participants aged between 46 and 89 years of age comparing their own memory to that of peers of the same age group, 25-year-olds and their own memory at age 25. This research showed that participants exhibited illusory superiority when comparing themselves to both peers and younger adults, however the researchers asserted that these judgments were only slightly related to age.\n\nIn Kruger and Dunning's experiments participants were given specific tasks (such as solving logic problems, analyzing grammar questions, and determining whether jokes were funny), and were asked to evaluate their performance on these tasks relative to the rest of the group, enabling a direct comparison of their actual and perceived performance.\n\nResults were divided into four groups depending on actual performance and it was found that all four groups evaluated their performance as above average, meaning that the lowest-scoring group (the bottom 25%) showed a very large illusory superiority bias. The researchers attributed this to the fact that the individuals who were worst at performing the tasks were also worst at recognizing skill in those tasks. This was supported by the fact that, given training, the worst subjects improved their estimate of their rank as well as getting better at the tasks. The paper, titled \"Unskilled and Unaware of It: How Difficulties in Recognizing One's Own Incompetence Lead to Inflated Self-Assessments\", won an Ig Nobel Prize in 2000.\n\nIn 2003 Dunning and Joyce Ehrlinger, also of Cornell University, published a study that detailed a shift in people's views of themselves influenced by external cues. Cornell undergraduates were given tests of their knowledge of geography, some intended to positively affect their self-views, others intended to affect them negatively. They were then asked to rate their performance, and those given the positive tests reported significantly better performance than those given the negative.\n\nDaniel Ames and Lara Kammrath extended this work to sensitivity to others, and the subjects' perception of how sensitive they were. Research by Burson, Larrick, and Klayman suggests that the effect is not so obvious and may be due to noise and bias levels.\n\nDunning, Kruger, and coauthors' latest paper on this subject comes to qualitatively similar conclusions after making some attempt to test alternative explanations.\n\nIn a survey of faculty at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, 68% rated themselves in the top 25% for teaching ability, and more than 90% rated themselves as above average.\n\nIn a similar survey, 87% of Master of Business Administration students at Stanford University rated their academic performance as above the median.\n\nIllusory superiority has also explained phenomena such as the large amount of stock market trading (as each trader thinks they are the best, and most likely to succeed), and the number of lawsuits that go to trial (because, due to illusory superiority, many lawyers have an inflated belief that they will win a case).\n\nOne of the first studies that found illusory superiority was carried out in the United States by the College Board in 1976. A survey was attached to the SAT exams (taken by one million students annually), asking the students to rate themselves relative to the median of the sample (rather than the average peer) on a number of vague positive characteristics. In ratings of leadership, 70% of the students put themselves above the median. In ability to get on well with others, 85% put themselves above the median; 25% rated themselves in the top 1%.\n\nA 2002 study on illusory superiority in social settings, with participants comparing themselves to friends and other peers on positive characteristics (such as punctuality and sensitivity) and negative characteristics (such as naivety or inconsistency). This study found that participants rated themselves more favorably than their friends, but rated their friends more favorably than other peers (but there were several moderating factors).\n\nResearch by Perloff and Fetzer, Brown, and Henri Tajfel and John C. Turner also found friends being rated higher than other peers. Tajfel and Turner attributed this to an \"ingroup bias\" and suggested that this was motivated by the individual's desire for a \"positive social identity\".\n\nIn Zuckerman and Jost's study, participants were given detailed questionnaires about their friendships and asked to assess their own popularity. Using social network analysis, they were able to show that participants generally had exaggerated perceptions of their own popularity, especially in comparison to their own friends.\n\nDespite the fact that most people in the study believed that they had more friends than their friends, a 1991 study by sociologist Scott L. Feld on the friendship paradox shows that on average, due to sampling bias, most people have fewer friends than their friends have.\n\nResearchers have also found illusory superiority in relationship satisfaction. For example, one study found that participants perceived their own relationships as better than others' relationships on average, but thought that the majority of people were happy with their relationships. It also found evidence that the higher the participants rated their own relationship happiness, the more superior they believed their relationship was—illusory superiority also increased their own relationship satisfaction. This effect was pronounced in men, whose satisfaction was especially related to the perception that one's own relationship was superior as well as to the assumption that few others were unhappy in their relationships. On the other hand, women's satisfaction was particularly related to the assumption that most people were happy with their relationship. One study found that participants became defensive when their spouse or partner were perceived by others to be more successful in any aspect of their life, and had the tendency to exaggerate their success and understate their spouse or partner's success.\n\nIllusory superiority was found in a self-report study of health behaviors (Hoorens & Harris, 1998) that asked participants to estimate how often they and their peers carried out healthy and unhealthy behaviors. Participants reported that they carried out healthy behaviors more often than the average peer, and unhealthy behaviors less often. The findings held even for expected future behavior.\n\nSvenson (1981) surveyed 161 students in Sweden and the United States, asking them to compare their driving skills and safety to other people. For driving skills, 93% of the U.S. sample and 69% of the Swedish sample put themselves in the top 50%; for safety, 88% of the U.S. and 77% of the Swedish put themselves in the top 50%.\n\nMcCormick, Walkey and Green (1986) found similar results in their study, asking 178 participants to evaluate their position on eight different dimensions of driving skills (examples include the \"dangerous–safe\" dimension and the \"considerate–inconsiderate\" dimension). Only a small minority rated themselves as below the median, and when all eight dimensions were considered together it was found that almost 80% of participants had evaluated themselves as being an above-average driver.\n\nOne commercial survey showed that 36% of drivers believed they were an above-average driver while texting or sending emails compared to other drivers; 44% considered themselves average, and 18% below average.\n\nSubjects describe themselves in positive terms compared to other people, and this includes describing themselves as less susceptible to bias than other people. This effect is called the \"bias blind spot\" and has been demonstrated independently.\n\nA vast majority of the literature on illusory superiority originates from studies on participants in the United States. However, research that only investigates the effects in one specific population is severely limited as this may not be a true representation of human psychology. More recent research investigating self-esteem in other countries suggests that illusory superiority depends on culture. Some studies indicate that East Asians tend to underestimate their own abilities in order to improve themselves and get along with others.\n\nIllusory superiority's relationship with self-esteem is uncertain. The theory that those with high self-esteem maintain this high level by rating themselves highly is not without merit—studies involving non-depressed college students found that they thought they had more control over positive outcomes compared to their peers, even when controlling for performance. Non-depressed students also actively rate peers below themselves as opposed to rating themselves higher. Students were able to recall a great deal more negative personality traits about others than about themselves.\n\nIt should be noted though, that in these studies there was no distinction made between people with legitimate and illegitimate high self-esteem, as other studies have found that absence of positive illusions mainly coexist with high self-esteem and that determined individuals bent on growth and learning are less prone to these illusions. Thus it may be that while illusory superiority is associated with undeserved high self-esteem, people with legitimate high self-esteem do not necessarily exhibit it.\n\nPsychology has traditionally assumed that generally accurate self-perceptions are essential to good mental health. This was challenged by a 1988 paper by Taylor and Brown, who argued that mentally healthy individuals typically manifest three cognitive illusions—illusory superiority, illusion of control, and optimism bias. This idea rapidly became very influential, with some authorities concluding that it would be therapeutic to deliberately induce these biases. Since then, further research has both undermined that conclusion and offered new evidence associating illusory superiority with negative effects on the individual.\n\nOne line of argument was that in the Taylor and Brown paper, the classification of people as mentally healthy or unhealthy was based on self-reports rather than objective criteria. Hence it was not surprising that people prone to self-enhancement would exaggerate how well-adjusted they are. One study claimed that \"mentally normal\" groups were contaminated by \"defensive deniers\", who are the most subject to positive illusions. A longitudinal study found that self-enhancement biases were associated with poor social skills and psychological maladjustment. In a separate experiment where videotaped conversations between men and women were rated by independent observers, self-enhancing individuals were more likely to show socially problematic behaviors such as hostility or irritability. A 2007 study found that self-enhancement biases were associated with psychological benefits (such as subjective well-being) but also inter- and intra-personal costs (such as anti-social behavior).\n\nThe degree to which people view themselves as more desirable than the average person links to reduced activation in their orbitofrontal cortex and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. This is suggested to link to the role of these areas in processing \"cognitive control\".\n\nA 2012 \"Psychological Bulletin\" suggests that illusory superiority (as well as other biases) can be explained by a simple information-theoretic generative mechanism that assumes a noisy conversion of objective evidence (observation) into subjective estimates (judgment). The study suggests that the underlying cognitive mechanism is essentially similar to the noisy mixing of memories that can cause the conservatism bias or overconfidence: after our own performance, we readjust our estimates of our own performance more than we readjust our estimates of others' performances. This implies that our estimates of the scores of others are even more conservative (more influenced by the previous expectation) than our estimates of our own performance (more influenced by the new evidence received after giving the test). The difference in the conservative bias of both estimates (conservative estimate of our own performance, and even more conservative estimate of the performance of others) is enough to create illusory superiority. Since mental noise is a sufficient explanation that is much simpler and straightforward than any other explanation involving heuristics, behavior, or social interaction, Occam's razor would argue in its favor as the underlying generative mechanism (it is the hypothesis which makes the fewest assumptions).\n\nSelective recruitment is the notion that, when making peer comparisons, an individual selects their own strengths and the other's weaknesses in order that they appear better on the whole. This theory was first tested by Weinstein (1980); however, this was in an experiment relating to optimistic bias, rather than the better-than-average effect. The study involved participants rating certain behaviors as likely to increase or decrease the chance of a series of life events happening to them. It was found that individuals showed less optimistic bias when they were allowed to see others' answers.\n\nPerloff and Fetzer (1986) suggested that when making peer comparisons on a specific characteristic, an individual chooses a comparison target—the peer to whom he is being compared—with lower abilities. To test this theory, Perloff and Fetzer asked participants to compare themselves to specific comparison targets like a close friend, and found that illusory superiority decreased when they were told to envision a specific person rather than vague constructs like \"the average peer\". However these results are not completely reliable and could be affected by the fact that individuals like their close friends more than an \"average peer\" and may as a result rate their friend as being higher than average, therefore the friend would not be an objective comparison target.\n\nAnother explanation for how the better-than-average effect works is egocentrism. This is the idea that an individual places greater importance and significance on their own abilities, characteristics, and behaviors than those of others. Egocentrism is therefore a less overtly self-serving bias. According to egocentrism, individuals will overestimate themselves in relation to others because they believe that they have an advantage that others do not have, as an individual considering their own performance and another's performance will consider their performance to be better, even when they are in fact equal. Kruger (1999) found support for the egocentrism explanation in his research involving participant ratings of their ability on easy and difficult tasks. It was found that individuals were consistent in their ratings of themselves as above the median in the tasks classified as \"easy\" and below the median in the tasks classified as \"difficult\", regardless of their actual ability. In this experiment the better-than-average effect was observed when it was suggested to participants that they would be successful, but also a worse-than-average effect was found when it was suggested that participants would be unsuccessful.\n\nYet another explanation for the better-than-average effect is \"focalism\", the idea that greater significance is placed on the object that is the focus of attention. Most studies of the better-than-average effect place greater focus on the self when asking participants to make comparisons (the question will often be phrased with the self being presented before the comparison target—\"compare yourself to the average person\"). According to focalism this means that the individual will place greater significance on their own ability or characteristic than that of the comparison target. This also means that in theory if, in an experiment on the better-than-average effect, the questions were phrased so that the self and other were switched (e.g., \"compare the average peer to yourself\") the better-than-average effect should be lessened.\n\nResearch into focalism has focused primarily on optimistic bias rather than the better-than-average effect. However, two studies found a decreased effect of optimistic bias when participants were asked to compare an average peer to themselves, rather than themselves to an average peer.\n\nWindschitl, Kruger & Simms (2003) have conducted research into focalism, focusing specifically on the better-than-average effect, and found that asking participants to estimate their ability and likelihood of success in a task produced results of decreased estimations when they were asked about others' chances of success rather than their own.\n\nThis idea, put forward by Giladi and Klar, suggests that when making comparisons any single member of a group will tend to evaluate themselves to rank above that group's statistical mean performance level or the median performance level of its members. For example, if an individual is asked to assess his or her own skill at driving compared to the rest of the group, he or she is likely to rate him/herself as an above-average driver. Furthermore, the majority of the group is likely to rate themselves as above average. Research has found this effect in many different areas of human performance and has even generalized it beyond individuals' attempts to draw comparisons involving themselves. Findings of this research therefore suggest that rather than individuals evaluating themselves as above average in a self-serving manner, the better-than-average effect is actually due to a general tendency to evaluate any single person or object as better than average.\n\nAlicke and Govorun proposed the idea that, rather than individuals consciously reviewing and thinking about their own abilities, behaviors and characteristics and comparing them to those of others, it is likely that people instead have what they describe as an \"automatic tendency to assimilate positively-evaluated social objects toward ideal trait conceptions\". For example, if an individual evaluated themselves as honest, they would be likely to then exaggerate their characteristic towards their perceived ideal position on a scale of honesty. Importantly, Alicke noted that this ideal position is not always the top of the scale; for example, with honesty, someone who is always brutally honest may be regarded as rude—the ideal is a balance, perceived differently by different individuals.\n\nThe better-than-average effect may not have wholly social origins—judgments about inanimate objects suffer similar distortions.\n\nWhile illusory superiority has been found to be somewhat self-serving, this does not mean that it will predictably occur—it is not constant. The strength of the effect is moderated by many factors, the main examples of which have been summarized by Alicke and Govorun (2005).\n\nThis is a phenomenon that Alicke and Govorun have described as \"the nature of the judgement dimension\" and refers to how subjective (abstract) or objective (concrete) the ability or characteristic being evaluated is. Research by Sedikides & Strube (1997) has found that people are more self-serving (the effect of illusory superiority is stronger) when the event in question is more open to interpretation, for example social constructs such as popularity and attractiveness are more interpretable than characteristics such as intelligence and physical ability. This has been partly attributed also to the need for a believable self-view.\n\nThe idea that ambiguity moderates illusory superiority has empirical research support from a study involving two conditions: in one, participants were given criteria for assessing a trait as ambiguous or unambiguous, and in the other participants were free to assess the traits according to their own criteria. It was found that the effect of illusory superiority was greater in the condition where participants were free to assess the traits.\n\nThe effects of illusory superiority have also been found to be strongest when people rate themselves on abilities at which they are totally incompetent. These subjects have the greatest disparity between their actual performance (at the low end of the distribution) and their self-rating (placing themselves above average). This Dunning–Kruger effect is interpreted as a lack of metacognitive ability to recognize their own incompetence.\n\nThe method used in research into illusory superiority has been found to have an implication on the strength of the effect found. Most studies into illusory superiority involve a comparison between an individual and an average peer, of which there are two methods: direct comparison and indirect comparison. A direct comparison—which is more commonly used—involves the participant rating themselves and the average peer on the same scale, from \"below average\" to \"above average\" and results in participants being far more self-serving. Researchers have suggested that this occurs due to the closer comparison between the individual and the average peer, however use of this method means that it is impossible to know whether a participant has overestimated themselves, underestimated the average peer, or both.\n\nThe indirect method of comparison involves participants rating themselves and the average peer on separate scales and the illusory superiority effect is found by taking the average peer score away from the individual's score (with a higher score indicating a greater effect). While the indirect comparison method is used less often it is more informative in terms of whether participants have overestimated themselves or underestimated the average peer, and can therefore provide more information about the nature of illusory superiority.\n\nThe nature of the comparison target is one of the most fundamental moderating factors of the effect of illusory superiority, and there are two main issues relating to the comparison target that need to be considered.\n\nFirst, research into illusory superiority is distinct in terms of the comparison target because an individual compares themselves with a hypothetical average peer rather than a tangible person. Alicke et al. (1995) found that the effect of illusory superiority was still present but was significantly reduced when participants compared themselves with real people (also participants in the experiment, who were seated in the same room), as opposed to when participants compared themselves with an average peer. This suggests that research into illusory superiority may itself be biasing results and finding a greater effect than would actually occur in real life.\n\nFurther research into the differences between comparison targets involved four conditions where participants were at varying proximity to an interview with the comparison target: watching live in the same room; watching on tape; reading a written transcript; or making self-other comparisons with an average peer. It was found that when the participant was further removed from the interview situation (in the tape observation and transcript conditions) the effect of illusory superiority was found to be greater. Researchers asserted that these findings suggest that the effect of illusory superiority is reduced by two main factors—individuation of the target and live contact with the target.\n\nSecond, Alicke et al.'s (1995) studies investigated whether the negative connotations to the word \"average\" may have an effect on the extent to which individuals exhibit illusory superiority, namely whether the use of the word \"average\" increases illusory superiority. Participants were asked to evaluate themselves, the average peer and a person whom they had sat next to in the previous experiment, on various dimensions. It was found that they placed themselves highest, followed by the real person, followed by the average peer, however the average peer was consistently placed above the mean point on the scale, suggesting that the word \"average\" did not have a negative effect on the participant's view of the average peer.\n\nAn important moderating factor of the effect of illusory superiority is the extent to which an individual believes they are able to control and change their position on the dimension concerned. According to Alicke & Govorun positive characteristics that an individual believes are within their control are more self-serving, and negative characteristics that are seen as uncontrollable are less detrimental to self-enhancement. This theory was supported by Alicke's (1985) research, which found that individuals rated themselves as higher than an average peer on positive controllable traits and lower than an average peer on negative uncontrollable traits. The idea, suggested by these findings, that individuals believe that they are responsible for their success and some other factor is responsible for their failure is known as the self-serving bias.\n\nPersonality characteristics vary widely between people and have been found to moderate the effects of illusory superiority, one of the main examples of this is self-esteem. Brown (1986) found that in self-evaluations of positive characteristics participants with higher self-esteem showed greater illusory superiority bias than participants with lower self-esteem. Additionally, another study found that participants pre-classified as having high self-esteem tended to interpret ambiguous traits in a self-serving way, whereas participants pre-classified as having low self-esteem did not do this.\n\nIn contrast to what is commonly believed, research has found that better-than-average effects are not universal. In fact, much recent research has found the opposite effect in many tasks, especially if they were more difficult.\n\n"}
{"id": "57379245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379245", "title": "Incel", "text": "Incel\n\nIncels (a portmanteau of involuntary celibates) are members of an online subculture who define themselves as unable to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\". Self-identified incels are mostly white, male, and heterosexual. Discussions in incel forums are often characterized by resentment, misanthropy, self-pity, self-loathing, misogyny, racism, a sense of entitlement to sex, and the endorsement of violence against sexually active people. The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\" that is included in their list of hate groups. At least four mass murders, resulting in 45 deaths, have been committed in North America by people who have either self-identified as incels or who had mentioned incel-related names and writings in their private writings or Internet postings. Incel communities have been criticized by the media and researchers for being misogynist, encouraging violence, as well as spreading extremist views and radicalizing their members.\n\nThe first online community to use the term \"incel\" was started in 1993 when a Canadian college student known only by her first name, Alana, created a website in order to discuss her sexual inactivity with others. The website, titled \"Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project\", was used by people of all genders to share their thoughts and experiences. In 1997, she started a mailing list on the topic that used the abbreviation INVCEL, which was later shortened to \"incel\", where it was defined as \"anybody of any gender who was lonely, had never had sex or who hadn't had a relationship in a long time\". During her college career and after, she realized she was queer, and became more comfortable with her identity. She later gave the site to a stranger. When speaking about the website in 2018, Alana said, \"It definitely wasn't a bunch of guys blaming women for their problems. That's a pretty sad version of this phenomenon that's happening today. Things have changed in the last 20 years.\"\n\nThe message board love-shy.com was founded in 2003 as a place for people who were perpetually rejected or extremely shy of potential partners to discuss their situations.\n\nThe /r/incels subreddit, a forum on the website Reddit, became a particularly active incel community. The subreddit was known as a place where men blamed women for their involuntary celibacy, sometimes advocated for rape or other violence, and were misogynistic and often racist. One post titled \"general question about how rapists get caught\" was asked by a member pretending to be a woman, saying they wanted to know how a woman who was drugged and raped would begin finding her rapist.\n\nWhen Alana read about the 2014 Isla Vista killings, and the way parts of the incel subculture glorified the perpetrator, Elliot Rodger, she wrote, \"Like a scientist who invented something that ended up being a weapon of war, I can't uninvent this word, nor restrict it to the nicer people who need it.\" Alana expressed regret at the change in usage from her original intent of creating an \"inclusive community\" for men and women who were sexually deprived due to social awkwardness, marginalization, or mental illness. She has since started a new project, \"Love Not Anger\", which she describes as \"a project to research how lonely people might find respectful love, instead of being stuck in anger\".\n\nOn October 25, 2017, Reddit announced a new policy that would ban \"content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people\". and banned the /r/incels subreddit on November 7, 2017, under its purview. At the time of the ban, the community had around 40,000 members. \n\nIncels came to wider public notice with the banning of the subreddit and when a series of mass murders were committed by men who either self-identified as involuntarily celibate or shared similar ideologies. However the incel community continued to inhabit Reddit. Increased interest in incel communities has been attributed to the feeling of \"aggrieved entitlement\" by some men, who feel they are being denied rights they deserve and blame women instead of society's expectation of masculinity.\n\nIncel communities have increasingly become more extremist and focused on violence, in recent years. This has been attributed to various factors, including influence from overlapping online hate groups and the rise of the alt-right and white supremacist groups. The misogynistic and sometimes violent rhetoric of some members of incel communities has led to numerous bans from websites and webhosts. Incel communities continue to exist on more lenient platforms, such as Voat, 4chan, and Reddit. There are also incel forums that disapprove of hatred, and a dating website that caters to incels.\n\nMany incel communities are characterized by resentment, self-pity, misogyny, misanthropy, narcissism, and racism. Discussions often revolve around the belief that men are owed sex; other common topics include idleness, loneliness, unhappiness, suicide, sexual surrogates, prostitutes and the acquirement of sex robots, as well as various attributes they believe increase one's desirability as a partner such as income or personality. Some endorse suicide among incels, violence against sexually active women and more sexually successful men, harassment of women, and catfishing women. In some communities, it is common for posts to glorify violence by self-identified incels such as Elliot Rodger (2014 Isla Vista killings) and Alek Minassian (2018 Toronto van attack, suspected), as well as by those they believe shared their ideology such as Marc Lépine (1989 École Polytechnique massacre), Seung-Hui Cho (2007 Virginia Tech shooting), and George Sodini (2009 Collier Township shooting).\n\nMany incels firmly defend concepts such as biological determinism and evolutionary psychology. Other concepts that incels may believe in include female hypergamy, the \"80/20 rule\" (an application of the Pareto principle) which suggests that 80% of women desire the top 20% of most attractive men; and among non-whites, the \"JBW\" theory, which stands for \"Just Be White\", suggesting that Caucasians face the fewest obstacles when dating. Incels also believe that single people seeking a partner participate in a cruel, mercenary, and Darwinian sexual selection wherein incels are genetically unfit and where women hold an advantage for reasons ranging from feminism to the use of cosmetics. Incels may attribute their lack of sexual success to factors such as shyness, sex-segregated work environments, negative body image, penis size, or their physical appearance, and commonly believe that the only thing more important than looks in improving a man's eligibility as a prospective partner is wealth. Some members of incel communities support the idea of \"forced 'sexual redistribution, where governments would require women to engage in certain sexual relationships, an idea which incels refer to as \"sexual Marxism\" and which others have described as \"state-sanctioned rape\". Some incels support the works of fringe social psychologist Brian Gilmartin, author of the book \"Shyness and Love\" which gained popularity among incel communities, and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson.\n\nIncel communities are a part of the broader manosphere. According to \"The New York Times\", involuntary celibacy is an adaptation of the idea of \"male supremacy\". The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\", which they began including in their list of hate groups in 2018. \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"the group has evolved into a male supremacist movement made up of people—some celibate, some not—who believe that women should be treated as sexual objects with few rights\". Incel communities sometimes overlap with topics such as Men Going Their Own Way (MGTOW), men's rights activism, vlogs by people who believe they are experiencing \"true forced loneliness\" (TFL), and pickup artistry, although at least one male incel website has expressed hatred for pickup artistry and accuses pickup artists and dating coaches of financially exploiting incels.\n\nThe black pill is a set of beliefs that are commonly held amongst members of incel communities, such as biological determinism, fatalism and defeatism for unattractive people. Someone who believes in the black pill is \"blackpilled\".\n\nThe concept of the black pill distinguishes incels from the men's rights movement and their popular reference to the red pill, an allusion to the dilemma in the movie \"The Matrix\" where the protagonist must choose to remain in a world of illusion (taking the blue pill) or to see the world as it really is (taking the red pill). In the context of men's rights activism, \"taking the red pill\" means seeing a world where women hold power over men. The black pill, on the other hand, refers to hopelessness. It also holds that one's personality is not very important.\n\nThe term \"black pill\" was first popularized on the blog Omega Virgin Revolt, where the term commended despondency in order to distinguish incels from the pickup artist communities. On the incel subreddit /r/braincels, \"blackpills\" are memes (usually images) that users share to describe a user's thoughts, many of which criticize women as egocentric, cruel, and shallow. Although the tone of the subreddit is similar, moderators of the forum say that they do not endorse, support, or glorify violence or violent people, a distinction they make from the subject matter of its /r/incels predecessor that resulted in it being banned from Reddit.\n\nThe term \"involuntary celibate\" (shortened to \"incel\") refers to self-identifying members of an online subculture based around the inability to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\" or \"incelibacy\". It is sometimes used interchangeably or alongside other terms, such as \"love-shy\" (describing those with social anxiety or excessive shyness preventing romantic success), \"FA\" (short for \"forever alone\"), \"unfuckability\", \"omegas\", \"zeta males\", \"betas\" \"the undersexed\", or \"the sexless\". Alana, the coiner of the term incel, initially considered using other terms such as \"perpetually single\" or \"dating shy\".\n\nMembers of incel communities regularly use jargon and a distinct dialect to refer to various concepts. For example, they may describe women as \"femoids\", \"stacys\" (attractive sexually active women), or \"beckys\" (less attractive sexually active women), and sexually active men as \"chads\". \"Mogging\" refers to the act of eclipsing another person in terms of physical appearance and thereby undermining them. \"Looksmaxing\" is an attempt at enhancing one's appearance by methods including dressing nicely, going to the gym, or undergoing plastic surgery. The abbreviation \"NEET\" refers to people who don't have jobs and aren't attending school: \"not in education, employment, or training\".\n\nMembers of incel communities use many variations of the term \"incel\" to refer to subgroups in the community, such as \"volcels\" (voluntary celibate; someone who chooses to forego sexual intercourse), \"marcels\" (married), \"nearcels\" (those who are considered nearly incel), \"hicels\" (those who have high standards; are very picky when dating), \"heightcels\" (short), and \"fakecels\" (those who claim to be incel, but in reality have recently had sex or been in a relationship). There are also a number of race-based variations of the term \"incel\" which refer to people who believe their race is the reason behind their inability to find a partner, including \"currycels\" (people of South Asian ancestry) and \"ricecels\" (those of Chinese or Southeast Asian backgrounds), or collectively, \"ethnicels\".\n\nSelf-identified incels are mostly white, male and heterosexual, and are often described as young and friendless introverts. Some media outlets depict them as unemployed and living with parents. However, due to their varied nature, there is no singular typical trait that defines all incels. Although members of incel communities mainly reside in the United States, there are also incel communities for people outside the Anglosphere, such as the Italian website Il Forum dei Brutti.\n\nThe first incel website, Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, was gender-inclusive. There are also women-specific forums, such as /r/Femcels and /r/ForeverAloneWomen. Nonetheless, there is disagreement in online incel communities on whether women can be incel, with some claiming that male incels outnumber female incels, others claiming that it is impossible for women to be incel, others claiming that only women with a physical deformity can be incel, while others argue that only highly unattractive women belonging to the \"bottom percentile in terms of appearance\" can be incel.\n\nEstimates on the size of incel communities vary, and range from the thousands, to tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands.\n\nThe incel subculture includes people who are in sexless marriages (or other sexless relationships) but who wish to be sexually active. It is considered to be distinct from asexuality and from voluntary sexual abstinence.\n\n\"Involuntary celibacy\" is not a medical or psychological condition. Some people who identify as incel suffer from physical disabilities or psychological disorders such as depression, autism spectrum disorder, and body dysmorphic disorder. Some visitors of incel forums attribute their inability to find a partner to physical or mental ailments, some others attribute it to extreme introversion. Many incels engage in self-diagnosis of mental health issues, and members of incel communities often discourage posters who post about mental illness from seeing therapists or otherwise seeking treatment. Some incels with severe depression are also suicidal, and some members of incel communities encourage suicidal members to commit suicide, sometimes recommending they commit acts of mass violence before doing so.\n\nSome mass murders and other violent attacks in North America have been committed or are suspected to have been committed by men who have self-identified as involuntarily celibate, or whose statements align with incel ideologies.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Elliot Rodger killed six people and injured fourteen others before killing himself in Isla Vista, California, near the campus of University of California, Santa Barbara. These killings drew media attention to the concept of involuntary celibacy, and particularly the misogyny and glorification of violence that are a mainstay of many incel communities. Rodger self-identified as an incel and left behind a 137-page manifesto and YouTube videos detailing his involuntary celibacy and discussing how he wanted revenge for being rejected by women. He had been an active member of an involuntary celibacy community called PUAHate (short for \"pickup artist hate\"), and referenced it several times in his manifesto. Although PUAHate shut down soon after the attack, Rodger became something of a martyr to some communities that remained, and to some of those that began later. He has been referenced by the perpetrators or suspected perpetrators of several other mass killings.\n\nRodger is among several attackers who are regularly praised by members of incel communities. The perpetrator of the 2009 Collier Township shooting, George Sodini, has been embraced by some of these communities. After the 2017 Las Vegas shooting by Stephen Paddock (a man with unclear motive), some of the involuntarily celibate community celebrated the shooter, who they felt was a hero who was targeting \"normies\". The trend has since continued—after the 2018 Toronto van attack, a poster on a website created to supersede /r/incels wrote about suspected perpetrator Alek Minassian, \"I hope this guy wrote a manifesto because he could be our next new saint.\" After the 2018 Danforth shooting, posters on an incel message board expressed excitement with the possibility that the perpetrator might be an incel, although no motive has been identified.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Chris Harper-Mercer killed nine people and injured eight others before killing himself in a shooting at the Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg, Oregon. He left a manifesto at the scene, outlining his interest in other mass murders including the Isla Vista killings, anger at not having a girlfriend, and animus towards the world. In his journal writings, he had related with Elliot Rodger and other mass shooters, describing them as \"people who stand with the gods\". Before the attack, when someone on an online message board had speculated he was \"saving himself for someone special\", Harper-Mercer had replied: \"Involuntarily so.\" Several hours before the shooting, someone suspected to be Harper-Mercer posted a threat to a Pacific Northwest college to /r9k/, a 4chan board with many involuntarily celibate posters.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, Sheldon Bentley robbed and killed an unconscious man in an alleyway in Edmonton, Alberta. During his trial, Bentley said he killed the man by stomping on his abdomen because he was frustrated with stress from his job as a security guard and with being involuntarily celibate for four years.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, William Atchison killed two people before killing himself in Aztec, New Mexico, in a shooting at Aztec High School, where he had previously been a student. He had used the pseudonym \"Elliot Rodger\" on several online forums, and praised \"the supreme gentleman\" (a term Rodger had used to describe himself, which has since been adopted as a moniker by incel communities).\n\nOn February 14, 2018, Nikolas Cruz killed seventeen people and injured seventeen others in a shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida before being arrested. Cruz had previously posted online that \"Elliot Rodger will not be forgotten\".\n\nOn April 23, 2018, a van driver (suspected to be Alek Minassian) killed ten people and injured fourteen others in a vehicle-ramming attack in Toronto, Ontario before being arrested. Shortly before the attack, Minassian had posted on Facebook that \"the Incel Rebellion has already begun\" and applauded Elliot Rodger. The term \"Incel Rebellion\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"Beta Uprising\", which refers to a violent response to incels' perceived sexual deprivation.\n\nOn November 2, 2018, Scott Beierle killed two women and injured four women and a man before killing himself in a shooting at the Hot Yoga Tallahassee studio in Tallahassee, Florida. He had a history of arrests for grabbing women's buttocks, and in 2014 he posted several YouTube videos of himself espousing extreme hatred for women. He expressed anger over not having a girlfriend, mentioning Elliot Rodger in one video. In the months leading up to the shooting, he posted numerous misogynistic, racist, violent, and homophobic songs to SoundCloud.\n\nIncel communities have been widely criticized in the media and by researchers as violent, misogynist, and extremist. Keegan Hankes, a senior research analyst working for the Southern Poverty Law Center, has cautioned that exposure to violent content on incel forums \"play[s] a very large role\" in the radicalization of incels, and describes violent posts on the forums as \"more ... than I'm used to seeing on even white supremacist sites\". Journalist David Futrelle has described incel communities as \"violently misogynistic\", and is among critics who attribute worsening violent rhetoric on incel forums to the growth of the alt-right and white supremacy, and the overlap between incel communities and online hate groups. Senior research fellow at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), Amarnath Amarasingam, has criticized some incel communities where calls for violence are commonplace, saying \"under the right set of psychological and personal circumstances, these kinds of forums can be dangerous and push people into violence\". Another researcher at the ISD, Jacob Davey, compared the radicalization of incels in incel forums to teenagers being urged to go to extreme measures on online forums that promote anorexia and other eating disorders and to online campaigns convincing people to join ISIL. Speaking about incels' feelings of entitlement to sex, Davey said the attitude \"can go as far as the justification of rape\". University of Portsmouth lecturer Lisa Sugiura has described incel forums as a \"networked misogyny\", and urged the posts in such forums be taken seriously not only in the context of hate speech but also as a form of grooming that could radicalize \"impressionable and vulnerable disillusioned young men\".\n\nCriticism has also been directed against platforms that host or have hosted incel content, including Reddit (who banned the /r/incels community in 2017 but has declined to ban another incel subreddit) and Twitter. Cloudflare, which provides services including DDoS protection and caching so that webpages are still accessible when a site is offline, has also been criticized for protecting incel websites against downtime even when webhosts have terminated service.\n\nReporting on incels by media outlets following the incel-related attacks during the 2010s has been criticized for its \"breathless\" coverage, normalizing incel communities by describing them as \"sexually frustrated\", and directing readers to incel communities. Some reporting has also been criticized for victim blaming by implying that women and peers who rejected the attackers held some responsibility for provoking the attacks, or for giving attackers notoriety by reporting on them at length.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5774599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5774599", "title": "Lakes of Wada", "text": "Lakes of Wada\n\nIn mathematics, the are three disjoint connected open sets of the plane or open unit square with the counterintuitive property that they all have the same boundary. In other words, for any point selected on the boundary of \"one\" of the lakes, the other two lakes' boundaries also contain that point.\n\nMore than two sets with the same boundary are said to have the Wada property; examples include Wada basins in dynamical systems. This property is rare in real-world systems.\n\nThe lakes of Wada were introduced by , who credited the discovery to Takeo Wada. His construction is similar to the construction by of an indecomposable continuum, and in fact it is possible for the common boundary of the three sets to be an indecomposable continuum.\n\nThe Lakes of Wada are formed by starting with a closed unit square of dry land, and then digging 3 lakes according to the following rule:\n\nAfter an infinite number of days, the three lakes are still disjoint connected open sets, and the remaining dry land is the boundary of each of the 3 lakes.\n\nFor example, the first five days might be (see the image on the right):\n\nA variation of this construction can produce a countable infinite number of connected lakes with the same boundary: instead of extending the lakes in the order 1, 2, 0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2, 0, ..., extend them in the order 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2, 3, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, ...and so on.\n\nWada basins are certain special basins of attraction studied in the mathematics of non-linear systems. A basin having the property that every neighborhood of every point on the boundary of that basin intersects at least three basins is called a Wada basin, or said to have the Wada property. Unlike the Lakes of Wada, Wada basins are often disconnected.\n\nAn example of Wada basins is given by the Newton–Raphson method applied to a cubic polynomial with distinct roots, such as see the picture.\n\nA physical system that demonstrates Wada basins is the pattern of reflections between three spheres in contact—see chaotic scattering.\n\nIn chaos theory, Wada basins arise very frequently. Usually, the Wada property can be seen in the basin of attraction of dissipative dynamical systems. \nBut the exit basins of Hamiltonian system can also show the Wada property. In the context of the chaotic scattering of systems with multiple exit, basin of exit shows the Wada property. \nM. A. F. Sanjuán et al. had shown that in the Henon-Heiles system the exit basins have this Wada property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7368301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7368301", "title": "Letter of introduction", "text": "Letter of introduction\n\nThe letter of introduction, along with the visiting card, was an important part of polite social interaction in the 18th and 19th centuries. It remains important in formal situations, such as an ambassador presenting his or her credentials (a letter of credence), and in certain business circles.\n\nIn general, a person would not interact socially with others unless they had been properly introduced, whether in person or by letter. A person of lower social status would request a patron of higher social status to write a letter of introduction to a third party, also of higher social status than the first person, but lower than the second person. It was important to observe the niceties of etiquette in requesting, writing and presenting such letters, in such matters as the quality of the paper used, and whether it would be delivered unsealed to allow the requesting party to read it. For example, it was best practice to deliver a letter of introduction to the intended recipient with a visiting card, to allow the recipient to reciprocate by calling upon the sender the next day.\n\nWhen Benjamin Franklin served as Ambassador to France (1776–1785) he was besieged by those traveling to America who desired letters of introduction. With his inimitable sense of style and humor, Ambassador Franklin drafted the following letter: \n"}
{"id": "604896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604896", "title": "Life-cycle assessment", "text": "Life-cycle assessment\n\nLife-cycle assessment (LCA, also known as life-cycle analysis, ecobalance, and cradle-to-grave analysis) is a technique to assess environmental impacts associated with all the stages of a product's life from raw material extraction through materials processing, manufacture, distribution, use, repair and maintenance, and disposal or recycling. Designers use this process to help critique their products. LCAs can help avoid a narrow outlook on environmental concerns by:\n\nThe goal of LCA is to compare the full range of environmental effects assignable to products and services by quantifying all inputs and outputs of material flows and assessing how these material flows affect the environment. This information is used to improve processes, support policy and provide a sound basis for informed decisions.\n\nThe term \"life cycle\" refers to the notion that a fair, holistic assessment requires the assessment of raw-material production, manufacture, distribution, use and disposal including all intervening transportation steps necessary or caused by the product's existence.\n\nThere are two main types of LCA. Attributional LCAs seek to establish (or attribute) the burdens associated with the production and use of a product, or with a specific service or process, at a point in time (typically the recent past). Consequential LCAs seek to identify the environmental consequences of a decision or a proposed change in a system under study (oriented to the future), which means that market and economic implications of a decision may have to be taken into account. Social LCA is under development as a different approach to life cycle thinking intended to assess social implications or potential impacts. Social LCA should be considered as an approach that is complementary to environmental LCA.\n\nThe procedures of life cycle assessment (LCA) are part of the ISO 14000 environmental management standards: in ISO 14040:2006 and 14044:2006. (ISO 14044 replaced earlier versions of ISO 14041 to ISO 14043.) GHG product life cycle assessments can also comply with specifications such as PAS 2050 and the GHG Protocol Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard.\n\nAccording to the ISO 14040 and 14044 standards, a Life Cycle Assessment is carried out in four distinct phases as illustrated in the figure shown to the right. The phases are often interdependent in that the results of one phase will inform how other phases are completed.\n\nAn LCA starts with an explicit statement of the goal and scope of the study, which sets out the context of the study and explains how and to whom the results are to be communicated. This is a key step and the ISO standards require that the goal and scope of an LCA be clearly defined and consistent with the intended application. The goal and scope document therefore includes technical details that guide subsequent work:\n\nand\n\nLife Cycle Inventory (LCI) analysis involves creating an inventory of flows from and to nature for a product system. Inventory flows include inputs of water, energy, and raw materials, and releases to air, land, and water. To develop the inventory, a flow model of the technical system is constructed using data on inputs and outputs. The flow model is typically illustrated with a flow chart that includes the activities that are going to be assessed in the relevant supply chain and gives a clear picture of the technical system boundaries. The input and output data needed for the construction of the model are collected for all activities within the system boundary, including from the supply chain (referred to as inputs from the technosphere).\n\nThe data must be related to the functional unit defined in the goal and scope definition. Data can be presented in tables and some interpretations can be made already at this stage. The results of the inventory is an LCI which provides information about all inputs and outputs in the form of elementary flow to and from the environment from all the unit processes involved in the study.\n\nInventory flows can number in the hundreds depending on the system boundary. For product LCAs at either the generic (i.e., representative industry averages) or brand-specific level, that data is typically collected through survey questionnaires. At an industry level, care has to be taken to ensure that questionnaires are completed by a representative sample of producers, leaning toward neither the best nor the worst, and fully representing any regional differences due to energy use, material sourcing or other factors. The questionnaires cover the full range of inputs and outputs, typically aiming to account for 99% of the mass of a product, 99% of the energy used in its production and any environmentally sensitive flows, even if they fall within the 1% level of inputs.\n\nOne area where data access is likely to be difficult is flows from the technosphere. The technosphere is more simply defined as the man-made world. Considered by geologists as secondary resources, these resources are in theory 100% recyclable; however, in a practical sense, the primary goal is salvage. For an LCI, these technosphere products (supply chain products) are those that have been produced by man and unfortunately those completing a questionnaire about a process which uses a man-made product as a means to an end will be unable to specify how much of a given input they use. Typically, they will not have access to data concerning inputs and outputs for previous production processes of the product. The entity undertaking the LCA must then turn to secondary sources if it does not already have that data from its own previous studies. National databases or data sets that come with LCA-practitioner tools, or that can be readily accessed, are the usual sources for that information. Care must then be taken to ensure that the secondary data source properly reflects regional or national conditions.\n\n\nInventory analysis is followed by impact assessment. This phase of LCA is aimed at evaluating the significance of potential environmental impacts based on the LCI flow results. Classical life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) consists of the following mandatory elements:\n\n\nIn many LCAs, characterization concludes the LCIA analysis; this is also the last compulsory stage according to ISO 14044:2006. However, in addition to the above mandatory LCIA steps, other optional LCIA elements – normalization, grouping, and weighting – may be conducted depending on the goal and scope of the LCA study. In normalization, the results of the impact categories from the study are usually compared with the total impacts in the region of interest, the U.S. for example. Grouping consists of sorting and possibly ranking the impact categories. During weighting, the different environmental impacts are weighted relative to each other so that they can then be summed to get a single number for the total environmental impact. ISO 14044:2006 generally advises against weighting, stating that “weighting, shall not be used in LCA studies intended to be used in comparative assertions intended to be disclosed to the public”. This advice is often ignored, resulting in comparisons that can reflect a high degree of subjectivity as a result of weighting.\n\nLife cycle impacts can also be categorized under the several phases of the development, production, use, and disposal of a product. Broadly speaking, these impacts can be divided into \"First Impacts,\" use impacts, and end of life impacts. \"First Impacts\" include extraction of raw materials, manufacturing (conversion of raw materials into a product), transportation of the product to a market or site, construction/installation, and the beginning of the use or occupancy. Use impacts include physical impacts of operating the product or facility (such as energy, water, etc.), maintenance, renovation and repairs (required to continue to use the product or facility). End of life impacts include demolition and processing of waste or recyclable materials.\n\nLife Cycle Interpretation is a systematic technique to identify, quantify, check, and evaluate information from the results of the life cycle inventory and/or the life cycle impact assessment. The results from the inventory analysis and impact assessment are summarized during the interpretation phase. The outcome of the interpretation phase is a set of conclusions and recommendations for the study. According to ISO 14040:2006, the interpretation should include:\n\n\nA key purpose of performing life cycle interpretation is to determine the level of confidence in the final results and communicate them in a fair, complete, and accurate manner. Interpreting the results of an LCA is not as simple as \"3 is better than 2, therefore Alternative A is the best choice\"! Interpreting the results of an LCA starts with understanding the accuracy of the results, and ensuring they meet the goal of the study. This is accomplished by identifying the data elements that contribute significantly to each impact category, evaluating the sensitivity of these significant data elements, assessing the completeness and consistency of the study, and drawing conclusions and recommendations based on a clear understanding of how the LCA was conducted and the results were developed.\n\nMore specifically, the best alternative is the one that the LCA shows to have the least cradle-to-grave environmental negative impact on land, sea, and air resources.\n\nBased on a survey of LCA practitioners carried out in 2006 \nLCA is mostly used to support business strategy (18%) and R&D (18%), as input to product or process design (15%), in education (13%) and for labeling or product declarations (11%). LCA will be continuously integrated into the built environment as tools such as the European ENSLIC Building project guidelines for buildings or developed and implemented, which provide practitioners guidance on methods to implement LCI data into the planning and design process.\n\nMajor corporations all over the world are either undertaking LCA in house or commissioning studies, while governments support the development of national databases to support LCA. Of particular note is the growing use of LCA for ISO Type III labels called Environmental Product Declarations, defined as \"quantified environmental data for a product with pre-set categories of parameters based on the ISO 14040 series of standards, but not excluding additional environmental information\". These third-party certified LCA-based labels provide an increasingly important basis for assessing the relative environmental merits of competing products. Third-party certification plays a major role in today's industry. Independent certification can show a company's dedication to safer and environmental friendlier products to customers and NGOs.\n\nLCA also has major roles in environmental impact assessment, integrated waste management and pollution studies. A recent study evaluated the LCA of a laboratory scale plant for oxygen enriched air production coupled with its economic evaluation in an holistic eco-design standpoint. LCA has also been used to assess the environmental impacts of pavement maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation activities .\n\nA life cycle analysis is only as valid as its data; therefore, it is crucial that data used for the completion of a life cycle analysis are accurate and current. When comparing different life cycle analyses with one another, it is crucial that equivalent data are available for both products or processes in question. If one product has a much higher availability of data, it cannot be justly compared to another product which has less detailed data.\n\nThere are two basic types of LCA data – unit process data and environmental input-output data (EIO), where the latter is based on national economic input-output data. Unit process data are derived from direct surveys of companies or plants producing the product of interest, carried out at a unit process level defined by the system boundaries for the study.\n\nData validity is an ongoing concern for life cycle analyses. Due to globalization and the rapid pace of research and development, new materials and manufacturing methods are continually being introduced to the market. This makes it both very important and very difficult to use up-to-date information when performing an LCA. If an LCA’s conclusions are to be valid, the data must be recent; however, the data-gathering process takes time. If a product and its related processes have not undergone significant revisions since the last LCA data was collected, data validity is not a problem. However, consumer electronics such as cell phones can be redesigned as often as every 9 to 12 months, creating a need for ongoing data collection.\n\nThe life cycle considered usually consists of a number of stages including: materials extraction, processing and manufacturing, product use, and product disposal. If the most environmentally harmful of these stages can be determined, then impact on the environment can be efficiently reduced by focusing on making changes for that particular phase. For example, the most energy-intensive life phase of an airplane or car is during use due to fuel consumption. One of the most effective ways to increase fuel efficiency is to decrease vehicle weight, and thus, car and airplane manufacturers can decrease environmental impact in a significant way by replacing heavier materials with lighter ones such as aluminium or carbon fiber-reinforced elements. The reduction during the use phase should be more than enough to balance additional raw material or manufacturing cost.\n\nData sources are typically large databases, it is not appropriate to compare two options if different data sources have been used to source the data. \nData sources include:\n\nCalculations for impact can then be done by hand, but it is more usual to streamline the process by using software. This can range from a simple spreadsheet, where the user enters the data manually to a fully automated program, where the user is not aware of the source data.\n\nCradle-to-grave is the full Life Cycle Assessment from resource extraction ('cradle') to use phase and disposal phase ('grave'). For example, trees produce paper, which can be recycled into low-energy production cellulose (fiberised paper) insulation, then used as an energy-saving device in the ceiling of a home for 40 years, saving 2,000 times the fossil-fuel energy used in its production. After 40 years the cellulose fibers are replaced and the old fibers are disposed of, possibly incinerated. All inputs and outputs are considered for all the phases of the life cycle.\n\nCradle-to-gate is an assessment of a \"partial\" product life cycle from resource extraction (\"cradle\") to the factory gate (i.e., before it is transported to the consumer). The use phase and disposal phase of the product are omitted in this case. Cradle-to-gate assessments are sometimes the basis for environmental product declarations (EPD) termed business-to-business EDPs. One of the significant uses of the cradle-to-gate approach compiles the life cycle inventory (LCI) using cradle-to-gate. This allows the LCA to collect all of the impacts leading up to resources being purchased by the facility. They can then add the steps involved in their transport to plant and manufacture process to more easily produce their own cradle-to-gate values for their products.\n\nCradle-to-cradle is a specific kind of cradle-to-grave assessment, where the end-of-life disposal step for the product is a recycling process. It is a method used to minimize the environmental impact of products by employing sustainable production, operation, and disposal practices and aims to incorporate social responsibility into product development. From the recycling process originate new, identical products (e.g., asphalt pavement from discarded asphalt pavement, glass bottles from collected glass bottles), or different products (e.g., glass wool insulation from collected glass bottles).\n\nAllocation of burden for products in open loop production systems presents considerable challenges for LCA. Various methods, such as the avoided burden approach have been proposed to deal with the issues involved.\n\nGate-to-gate is a partial LCA looking at only one value-added process in the entire production chain. Gate-to-gate modules may also later be linked in their appropriate production chain to form a complete cradle-to-gate evaluation.\n\nWell-to-wheel is the specific LCA used for transport fuels and vehicles. The analysis is often broken down into stages entitled \"well-to-station\", or \"well-to-tank\", and \"station-to-wheel\" or \"tank-to-wheel\", or \"plug-to-wheel\". The first stage, which incorporates the feedstock or fuel production and processing and fuel delivery or energy transmission, and is called the \"upstream\" stage, while the stage that deals with vehicle operation itself is sometimes called the \"downstream\" stage. The well-to-wheel analysis is commonly used to assess total energy consumption, or the energy conversion efficiency and emissions impact of marine vessels, aircraft and motor vehicles, including their carbon footprint, and the fuels used in each of these transport modes. WtW analysis is useful for reflecting the different efficiencies and emissions of energy technologies and fuels at both the upstream and downstream stages, giving a more complete picture of real emissions.\n\nThe well-to-wheel variant has a significant input on a model developed by the Argonne National Laboratory. The Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation (GREET) model was developed to evaluate the impacts of new fuels and vehicle technologies. The model evaluates the impacts of fuel use using a well-to-wheel evaluation while a traditional cradle-to-grave approach is used to determine the impacts from the vehicle itself. The model reports energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and six additional pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxide (NOx), particulate matter with size smaller than 10 micrometre (PM10), particulate matter with size smaller than 2.5 micrometre (PM2.5), and sulfur oxides (SOx).\n\nQuantitative values of greenhouse gas emissions calculated with the WTW or with the LCA method can differ, since the LCA is considering more emission sources. In example, while assessing the GHG emissions of a Battery Electric Vehicle in comparison with a conventional internal combustion engine vehicle, the WTW (accounting only the GHG for manufacturing the fuels) finds out that an electric vehicle can save the 50-60% of GHG , while an hybrid LCA-WTW method, considering also the GHG due to the manufacturing and the end of life of the battery gives GHG emission savings 10-13% lower, compared to the WTW. \n\nEconomic input–output LCA (EIOLCA) involves use of aggregate sector-level data on how much environmental impact can be attributed to each sector of the economy and how much each sector purchases from other sectors. Such analysis can account for long chains (for example, building an automobile requires energy, but producing energy requires vehicles, and building those vehicles requires energy, etc.), which somewhat alleviates the scoping problem of process LCA; however, EIOLCA relies on sector-level averages that may or may not be representative of the specific subset of the sector relevant to a particular product and therefore is not suitable for evaluating the environmental impacts of products. Additionally the translation of economic quantities into environmental impacts is not validated.\n\nWhile a conventional LCA uses many of the same approaches and strategies as an Eco-LCA, the latter considers a much broader range of ecological impacts. It was designed to provide a guide to wise management of human activities by understanding the direct and indirect impacts on ecological resources and surrounding ecosystems. Developed by Ohio State University Center for resilience, Eco-LCA is a methodology that quantitatively takes into account regulating and supporting services during the life cycle of economic goods and products. In this approach services are categorized in four main groups: supporting, regulating, provisioning and cultural services.\n\nExergy of a system is the maximum useful work possible during a process that brings the system into equilibrium with a heat reservoir. Wall clearly states the relation between exergy analysis and resource accounting. This intuition confirmed by DeWulf and Sciubba lead to Exergo-economic accounting and to methods specifically dedicated to LCA such as Exergetic material input per unit of service (EMIPS). The\nconcept of material input per unit of service (MIPS) is quantified in terms of the second law of thermodynamics, allowing the calculation of both resource input and service output in exergy terms. This exergetic material input per unit of service (EMIPS) has been elaborated for transport technology. The service not only takes into account the total mass to be transported\nand the total distance, but also the mass per single transport and the delivery time.\n\nLife cycle energy analysis (LCEA) is an approach in which all energy inputs to a product are accounted for, not only direct energy inputs during manufacture, but also all energy inputs needed to produce components, materials and services needed for the manufacturing process. An earlier term for the approach was \"energy analysis\".\n\nWith LCEA, the \"total life cycle energy input\" is established.\n\nIt is recognized that much energy is lost in the production of energy commodities themselves, such as nuclear energy, photovoltaic\nelectricity or high-quality petroleum products. \"Net energy content\" is the energy content of the product minus energy input used\nduring extraction and conversion, directly or indirectly. A controversial early result of LCEA claimed that manufacturing\nsolar cells requires more energy than can be recovered in using the solar cell . The result was refuted.\nAnother new concept that flows from life cycle assessments is Energy Cannibalism. Energy Cannibalism refers to an effect where rapid\ngrowth of an entire energy-intensive industry creates a need for energy that uses (or cannibalizes) the energy of existing power\nplants. Thus during rapid growth the industry as a whole produces no energy because new energy is used to fuel the embodied energy of\nfuture power plants. Work has been undertaken in the UK to determine the life cycle energy (alongside full LCA) impacts of a number of renewable technologies.\n\nIf materials are incinerated during the disposal process, the energy released during burning can be harnessed and used for electricity production. This provides a low-impact energy source, especially when compared with coal and natural gas While incineration produces more greenhouse gas emissions than landfilling, the waste plants are well-fitted with filters to minimize this negative impact. A recent study comparing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from landfilling (without energy recovery) against incineration (with energy recovery) found incineration to be superior in all cases except for when landfill gas is recovered for electricity production.\n\nIt has also been argued that energy efficiency is only one consideration in deciding which alternative process to employ, and that it should not be elevated to the only criterion for determining environmental acceptability. For example, simple energy analysis does not take into account the renewability of energy flows or the toxicity of waste products;. Incorporating Dynamic LCAs of renewable energy technologies (using sensitivity analyses to project future improvements in renewable systems and their share of the power grid) may help mitigate this criticism.\n\nIn recent years, the literature on life cycle assessment of energy technology has begun to reflect the interactions between the current electrical grid and future energy technology. Some papers have focused on energy life cycle, while others have focused on carbon dioxide (CO) and other greenhouse gases. The essential critique given by these sources is that when considering energy technology, the growing nature of the power grid must be taken into consideration. If this is not done, a given class of energy technology may emit more CO over its lifetime than it mitigates.\n\nA problem the energy analysis method cannot resolve is that different energy forms (heat, electricity, chemical energy etc.) have different quality and value even in natural sciences, as a consequence of the two main laws of thermodynamics. A thermodynamic measure of the quality of energy is exergy. According to the first law of thermodynamics, all energy inputs should be accounted with equal weight, whereas by the second law diverse energy forms should be accounted by different values.\n\nThe conflict is resolved in one of these ways:\n\nLife cycle assessment is a powerful tool for analyzing commensurable aspects of quantifiable systems. Not every factor, however, can be reduced to a number and inserted into a model. Rigid system boundaries make accounting for changes in the system difficult. This is sometimes referred to as the boundary critique to systems thinking. The accuracy and availability of data can also contribute to inaccuracy. For instance, data from generic processes may be based on averages, unrepresentative sampling, or outdated results. Additionally, social implications of products are generally lacking in LCAs. Comparative life-cycle analysis is often used to determine a better process or product to use. However, because of aspects like differing system boundaries, different statistical information, different product uses, etc., these studies can easily be swayed in favor of one product or process over another in one study and the opposite in another study based on varying parameters and different available data. There are guidelines to help reduce such conflicts in results but the method still provides a lot of room for the researcher to decide what is important, how the product is typically manufactured, and how it is typically used.\n\nAn in-depth review of 13 LCA studies of wood and paper products found a lack of consistency in the methods and assumptions used to track carbon during the product lifecycle. A wide variety of methods and assumptions were used, leading to different and potentially contrary conclusions – particularly with regard to carbon sequestration and methane generation in landfills and with carbon accounting during forest growth and product use.\n\nThis process includes three steps.\nFirst, a proper method should be selected to combine adequate accuracy with acceptable cost burden in order to guide decision making. Actually, in LCA process, besides streamline LCA, Eco-screening and complete LCA are usually considered as well. However, the former one only could provide limited details and the latter one with more detailed information is more expensive.\nSecond, single measure of stress should be selected. Typical LCA output includes resource consumption, energy consumption, water consumption, emission of CO, toxic residues and so on. One of these outputs is used as the main factor to measure in streamline LCA. Energy consumption and CO emission are often regarded as “practical indicators”.\nLast, stress selected in step 2 is used as standard to assess phase of life separately and identify the most damaging phase. For instance, for a family car, energy consumption could be used as the single stress factor to assess each phase of life. The result shows that the most energy intensive phase for a family car is the usage stage.\n\nLife Cycle Assessment of Engineered Material in Service plays a significant role in saving energy, conserving resources and saving billions by preventing premature failure of critical engineered component in a machine or equipment. LCA data of surface engineered materials are used to improve life cycle of the engineered component. Life cycle improvement of industrial machineries and equipments including, manufacturing, power generation, transportations, etc. leads to improvement in energy efficiency, sustainability and negating global temperature rise. Estimated reduction in anthropogenic carbon emission is minimum 10% of the global emission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18831531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18831531", "title": "Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination", "text": "Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination\n\nThe Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination (MCAD) is the primary agency for civil rights law enforcement, outreach, and training in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Following the recommendation of a 1944 committee appointed by Governor of Massachusetts Maurice Tobin to establish a commission to enforce laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religious creed, national origin, or ancestry, the Massachusetts General Court created the Fair Employment Practices Commission in 1946. The Commission took 96 complaints, conducted 60 interviews, and handled 500 phone inquiries in its first year alone. The name was changed to the current name in 1950 to reflect the expansion of its jurisdiction and power from employment to housing and public accommodations.\n\nA legal reporter with Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination cases, commentary, and subject matter indices is provided by Landlaw Inc. and MCAD decisions can also be found on Westlaw.com\n\n"}
{"id": "20347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347", "title": "Meaning of life", "text": "Meaning of life\n\nThe meaning of life, or the answer to the question \"What is the meaning of life?\", pertains to the significance of living or existence in general. Many other related questions include: \"Why are we here?\", \"What is life all about?\", or \"What is the purpose of existence?\" There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds. The search for life's meaning has produced much philosophical, scientific, theological, and metaphysical speculation throughout history. Different people and cultures believe different things for the answer to this question. \n\nThe meaning of life as we perceive it is derived from philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. Many other issues are also involved, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife. Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the \"how\" of life. Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality. An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question, \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\"\n\nQuestions about the meaning of life have been expressed in a broad variety of ways, including the following:\n\nThese questions have resulted in a wide range of competing answers and arguments, from scientific theories, to philosophical, theological, and spiritual explanations.\n\nMany members of the scientific community and philosophy of science communities think that science can provide the relevant context, and set of parameters necessary for dealing with topics related to the meaning of life. In their view, science can offer a wide range of insights on topics ranging from the science of happiness to death anxiety. Scientific inquiry facilitates this through nomological investigation into various aspects of life and reality, such as the Big Bang, the origin of life, and evolution, and by studying the objective factors which correlate with the subjective experience of meaning and happiness.\n\nResearchers in positive psychology study empirical factors that lead to life satisfaction, full engagement in activities, making a fuller contribution by utilizing one's personal strengths, and meaning based on investing in something larger than the self. Large-data studies of flow experiences have consistently suggested that humans experience meaning and fulfillment when mastering challenging tasks, and that the experience comes from the way tasks are approached and performed rather than the particular choice of task. For example, flow experiences can be obtained by prisoners in concentration camps with minimal facilities, and occur only slightly more often in billionaires. A classic example is of two workers on an apparently boring production line in a factory. One treats the work as a tedious chore while the other turns it into a game to see how fast she can make each unit, and achieves flow in the process.\n\nNeuroscience describes reward, pleasure, and motivation in terms of neurotransmitter activity, especially in the limbic system and the ventral tegmental area in particular. If one believes that the meaning of life is to maximize pleasure and to ease general life, then this allows normative predictions about how to act to achieve this. Likewise, some ethical naturalists advocate a science of morality—the empirical pursuit of flourishing for all conscious creatures.\n\nExperimental philosophy and neuroethics research collects data about human ethical decisions in controlled scenarios such as trolley problems. It has shown that many types of ethical judgment are universal across cultures, suggesting that they may be innate, whilst others are culture specific. The findings show actual human ethical reasoning to be at odds with most logical philosophical theories, for example consistently showing distinctions between action by cause and action by omission which would be absent from utility based theories. Cognitive science has theorized about differences between conservative and liberal ethics and how they may be based on different metaphors from family life such as strong fathers vs nurturing mother models.\n\nNeurotheology is a controversial field which tries to find neural correlates and mechanisms of religious experience. Some researchers have suggested that the human brain has innate mechanisms for such experiences and that living without using them for their evolved purposes may be a cause of imbalance. Studies have reported conflicted results on correlating happiness with religious belief and it is difficult to find unbiased meta-analyses.\n\nSociology examines value at a social level using theoretical constructs such as value theory, norms, anomie, etc. One value system suggested by social psychologists, broadly called Terror Management Theory, states that human meaning is derived from a fundamental fear of death, and values are selected when they allow us to escape the mental reminder of death.\n\nEmerging research shows that meaning in life predicts better physical health outcomes. Greater meaning has been associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease, reduced risk of heart attack among individuals with coronary heart disease, reduced risk of stroke, and increased longevity in both American and Japanese samples. In 2014, the British National Health Service began recommending a five step plan for mental well-being based on meaningful lives, whose steps are: (1) Connect with community and family; (2) Physical exercise; (3) Lifelong learning; (4) Giving to others; (5) Mindfulness of the world around you.\n\nThe exact mechanisms of abiogenesis are unknown: notable hypotheses include the RNA world hypothesis (RNA-based replicators) and the iron-sulfur world hypothesis (metabolism without genetics). The process by which different lifeforms have developed throughout history via genetic mutation and natural selection is explained by evolution. At the end of the 20th century, based upon insight gleaned from the gene-centered view of evolution, biologists George C. Williams, Richard Dawkins, and David Haig, among others, concluded that if there is a primary function to life, it is the replication of DNA and the survival of one's genes. This view has not achieved universal agreement; Jeremy Griffith is a notable exception, maintaining that the meaning of life is to be integrative. Responding to an interview question from Richard Dawkins about \"what it is all for\", James Watson stated \"I don't think we're \"for\" anything. We're just the products of evolution.\"\n\nThough scientists have intensively studied life on Earth, defining life in unequivocal terms is still a challenge. Physically, one may say that life \"feeds on negative entropy\" which refers to the process by which living entities decrease their internal entropy at the expense of some form of energy taken in from the environment. Biologists generally agree that lifeforms are self-organizing systems which regulate their internal environments as to maintain this organized state, metabolism serves to provide energy, and reproduction causes life to continue over a span of multiple generations. Typically, organisms are responsive to stimuli and genetic information changes from generation to generation, resulting in adaptation through evolution; this optimizes the chances of survival for the individual organism and its descendants respectively.\n\nNon-cellular replicating agents, notably viruses, are generally not considered to be organisms because they are incapable of independent reproduction or metabolism. This classification is problematic, though, since some parasites and endosymbionts are also incapable of independent life. Astrobiology studies the possibility of different forms of life on other worlds, including replicating structures made from materials other than DNA.\n\nThough the Big Bang theory was met with much skepticism when first introduced, it has become well-supported by several independent observations. However, current physics can only describe the early universe from 10 seconds after the Big Bang (where zero time corresponds to infinite temperature); a theory of quantum gravity would be required to understand events before that time. Nevertheless, many physicists have speculated about what would have preceded this limit, and how the universe came into being. For example, one interpretation is that the Big Bang occurred coincidentally, and when considering the anthropic principle, it is sometimes interpreted as implying the existence of a multiverse.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the universe, and implicitly humanity, is hypothesized as one in which biological life will eventually become unsustainable, such as through a Big Freeze, Big Rip, or Big Crunch.\n\nTheoretical cosmology studies many alternative speculative models for the origin and fate of the universe beyond the big bang theory. A recent trend has been models of the creation of 'baby universes' inside black holes, with our own big bang being a white hole on the inside of a black hole in another parent universe. Multiverse theories claim that every possibility of quantum mechanics is played out in parallel universes.\n\nThe nature and origin of consciousness and the mind itself are also widely debated in science. The explanatory gap is generally equated with the hard problem of consciousness, and the question of free will is also considered to be of fundamental importance. These subjects are mostly addressed in the fields of cognitive science, neuroscience (e.g. the neuroscience of free will) and philosophy of mind, though some evolutionary biologists and theoretical physicists have also made several allusions to the subject.\nReductionistic and eliminative materialistic approaches, for example the Multiple Drafts Model, hold that consciousness can be wholly explained by neuroscience through the workings of the brain and its neurons, thus adhering to biological naturalism.\n\nOn the other hand, some scientists, like Andrei Linde, have considered that consciousness, like spacetime, might have its own intrinsic degrees of freedom, and that one's perceptions may be as real as (or even more real than) material objects. Hypotheses of consciousness and spacetime explain consciousness in describing a \"space of conscious elements\", often encompassing a number of extra dimensions. Electromagnetic theories of consciousness solve the binding problem of consciousness in saying that the electromagnetic field generated by the brain is the actual carrier of conscious experience, there is however disagreement about the implementations of such a theory relating to other workings of the mind. Quantum mind theories use quantum theory in explaining certain properties of the mind. Explaining the process of free will through quantum phenomena is a popular alternative to determinism.\n\nBased on the premises of non-materialistic explanations of the mind, some have suggested the existence of a cosmic consciousness, asserting that consciousness is actually the \"ground of all being\". Proponents of this view cite accounts of paranormal phenomena, primarily extrasensory perceptions and psychic powers, as evidence for an incorporeal higher consciousness. In hopes of proving the existence of these phenomena, parapsychologists have orchestrated various experiments, but successful results might be due to poor experimental controls and might have alternative explanations.\n\nThe most common definitions of meaning in life involve three components. First, Reker and Wong define personal meaning as the \"cognizance of order, coherence and purpose in one's existence, the pursuit and attainment of worthwhile goals, and an accompanying sense of fulfillment\" (p. 221). In 2016 Martela and Steger defined meaning as coherence, purpose, and significance. In contrast, Wong has proposed a four-component solution to the question of meaning in life, with the four components purpose, understanding, responsibility, and enjoyment (PURE):\n\nThus, a sense of significance permeates every dimension of meaning, rather than stands as a separate factor.\n\nAlthough most psychology researchers consider meaning in life as a subjective feeling or judgment, most philosophers (e.g., Thaddeus Metz, Daniel Haybron) propose that there are also objective, concrete criteria for what constitutes meaning in life.\nWong has proposed that whether life is meaningful depends not only on subjective feelings but, more importantly, on whether a person's goal-striving and life as a whole is meaningful according to some objective normative standard.\n\nThe philosophical perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of ideals or abstractions defined by humans.\n\nPlato, a pupil of Socrates, was one of the earliest, most influential philosophers. His reputation comes from his idealism of believing in the existence of universals. His Theory of Forms proposes that universals do not physically exist, like objects, but as heavenly forms. In the dialogue of \"The Republic\", the character of Socrates describes the Form of the Good. His theory on justice in the soul relates to the idea of happiness relevant to the question of the meaning of life.\n\nIn Platonism, the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the Idea (Form) of the Good, from which all good and just things derive utility and value.\n\nAristotle, an apprentice of Plato, was another early and influential philosopher, who argued that ethical knowledge is not \"certain\" knowledge (such as metaphysics and epistemology), but is \"general\" knowledge. Because it is not a theoretical discipline, a person had to study and practice in order to become \"good\"; thus if the person were to become virtuous, he could not simply study what virtue \"is\", he had to \"be\" virtuous, via virtuous activities. To do this, Aristotle established what is virtuous:\nYet, if action A is done towards achieving goal B, then goal B also would have a goal, goal C, and goal C also would have a goal, and so would continue this pattern, until something stopped its infinite regression. Aristotle's solution is the \"Highest Good\", which is desirable for its own sake. It is its own goal. The Highest Good is not desirable for the sake of achieving some other good, and all other \"goods\" desirable for its sake. This involves achieving \"eudaemonia\", usually translated as \"happiness\", \"well-being\", \"flourishing\", and \"excellence\".\n\nAntisthenes, a pupil of Socrates, first outlined the themes of Cynicism, stating that the purpose of life is living a life of Virtue which agrees with Nature. Happiness depends upon being self-sufficient and master of one's mental attitude; suffering is the consequence of false judgments of value, which cause negative emotions and a concomitant vicious character.\n\nThe Cynical life rejects conventional desires for wealth, power, health, and fame, by being free of the possessions acquired in pursuing the conventional. As reasoning creatures, people could achieve happiness via rigorous training, by living in a way natural to human beings. The world equally belongs to everyone, so suffering is caused by false judgments of what is valuable and what is worthless per the customs and conventions of society.\n\nAristippus of Cyrene, a pupil of Socrates, founded an early Socratic school that emphasized only one side of Socrates's teachings—that happiness is one of the ends of moral action and that pleasure is the supreme good; thus a hedonistic world view, wherein bodily gratification is more intense than mental pleasure. Cyrenaics prefer immediate gratification to the long-term gain of delayed gratification; denial is unpleasant unhappiness.\n\nEpicurus, a pupil of the Platonist Pamphilus of Samos, taught that the greatest good is in seeking modest pleasures, to attain tranquility and freedom from fear (ataraxia) via knowledge, friendship, and virtuous, temperate living; bodily pain (aponia) is absent through one's knowledge of the workings of the world and of the limits of one's desires. Combined, freedom from pain and freedom from fear are happiness in its highest form. Epicurus' lauded enjoyment of simple pleasures is quasi-ascetic \"abstention\" from sex and the appetites:\n\"When we say ... that pleasure is the end and aim, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do, by some, through ignorance, prejudice or wilful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish, and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul.\"\n\nThe Epicurean meaning of life rejects immortality and mysticism; there is a soul, but it is as mortal as the body. There is no afterlife, yet, one need not fear death, because \"Death is nothing to us; for that which is dissolved, is without sensation, and that which lacks sensation is nothing to us.\"\n\nZeno of Citium, a pupil of Crates of Thebes, established the school which teaches that living according to reason and virtue is to be in harmony with the universe's divine order, entailed by one's recognition of the universal \"logos\", or reason, an essential value of all people. The meaning of life is \"freedom from suffering\" through \"apatheia\" (Gr: απαθεια), that is, being objective and having \"clear judgement\", \"not\" indifference.\n\nStoicism's prime directives are virtue, reason, and natural law, abided to develop personal self-control and mental fortitude as means of overcoming destructive emotions. The Stoic does not seek to extinguish emotions, only to avoid emotional troubles, by developing clear judgement and inner calm through diligently practiced logic, reflection, and concentration.\n\nThe Stoic ethical foundation is that \"good lies in the state of the soul\", itself, exemplified in wisdom and self-control, thus improving one's spiritual well-being: \"\"Virtue\" consists in a \"will\" which is in agreement with Nature.\" The principle applies to one's personal relations thus: \"to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy\".\n\nThe Enlightenment and the colonial era both changed the nature of European philosophy and exported it worldwide. Devotion and subservience to God were largely replaced by notions of inalienable natural rights and the potentialities of reason, and universal ideals of love and compassion gave way to civic notions of freedom, equality, and citizenship. The meaning of life changed as well, focusing less on humankind's relationship to God and more on the relationship between individuals and their society. This era is filled with theories that equate meaningful existence with the social order.\n\nClassical liberalism is a set of ideas that arose in the 17th and 18th centuries, out of conflicts between a growing, wealthy, propertied class and the established aristocratic and religious orders that dominated Europe. Liberalism cast humans as beings with inalienable natural rights (including the right to retain the wealth generated by one's own work), and sought out means to balance rights across society. Broadly speaking, it considers individual liberty to be the most important goal, because only through ensured liberty are the other inherent rights protected.\n\nThere are many forms and derivations of liberalism, but their central conceptions of the meaning of life trace back to three main ideas. Early thinkers such as John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith saw humankind beginning in the state of nature, then finding meaning for existence through labor and property, and using social contracts to create an environment that supports those efforts.\n\nKantianism is a philosophy based on the ethical, epistemological, and metaphysical works of Immanuel Kant. Kant is known for his deontological theory where there is a single moral obligation, the \"Categorical Imperative\", derived from the concept of duty. Kantians believe all actions are performed in accordance with some underlying maxim or principle, and for actions to be ethical, they must adhere to the categorical imperative.\n\nSimply put, the test is that one must universalize the maxim (imagine that all people acted in this way) and then see if it would still be possible to perform the maxim in the world without contradiction. In \"Groundwork\", Kant gives the example of a person who seeks to borrow money without intending to pay it back. This is a contradiction because if it were a universal action, no person would lend money anymore as he knows that he will never be paid back. The maxim of this action, says Kant, results in a contradiction in conceivability (and thus contradicts perfect duty).\n\nKant also denied that the consequences of an act in any way contribute to the moral worth of that act, his reasoning being that the physical world is outside one's full control and thus one cannot be held accountable for the events that occur in it.\n\nThe origins of utilitarianism can be traced back as far as Epicurus, but, as a school of thought, it is credited to Jeremy Bentham, who found that \"nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure\", then, from that moral insight, deriving the \"Rule of Utility\": \"that the good is whatever brings the greatest happiness to the greatest number of people\". He defined the meaning of life as the \"greatest happiness principle\".\n\nJeremy Bentham's foremost proponent was James Mill, a significant philosopher in his day, and father of John Stuart Mill. The younger Mill was educated per Bentham's principles, including transcribing and summarizing much of his father's work.\n\nNihilism suggests that life is without objective meaning.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche characterized nihilism as emptying the world, and especially human existence, of meaning, purpose, comprehensible truth, and essential value; succinctly, nihilism is the process of \"the devaluing of the highest values\". Seeing the nihilist as a natural result of the idea that God is dead, and insisting it was something to overcome, his questioning of the nihilist's life-negating values returned meaning to the Earth.\nTo Martin Heidegger, nihilism is the movement whereby \"being\" is forgotten, and is transformed into value, in other words, the reduction of being to exchange value. Heidegger, in accordance with Nietzsche, saw in the so-called \"death of God\" a potential source for nihilism:\n\"If God, as the supra-sensory ground and goal, of all reality, is dead; if the supra-sensory world of the Ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory, and above it, its vitalizing and up-building power, then nothing more remains to which Man can cling, and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nThe French philosopher Albert Camus asserts that the absurdity of the human condition is that people search for external values and meaning in a world which has none, and is indifferent to them. Camus writes of value-nihilists such as Meursault, but also of values in a nihilistic world, that people can instead strive to be \"heroic nihilists\", living with dignity in the face of absurdity, living with \"secular saintliness\", fraternal solidarity, and rebelling against and transcending the world's indifference.\n\nThe current era has seen radical changes in both formal and popular conceptions of human nature. The knowledge disclosed by modern science has effectively rewritten the relationship of humankind to the natural world. Advances in medicine and technology have freed humans from significant limitations and ailments of previous eras; and philosophy—particularly following the linguistic turn—has altered how the relationships people have with themselves and each other are conceived. Questions about the meaning of life have also seen radical changes, from attempts to reevaluate human existence in biological and scientific terms (as in pragmatism and logical positivism) to efforts to meta-theorize about meaning-making as a personal, individual-driven activity (existentialism, secular humanism).\n\nPragmatism originated in the late-19th-century US, concerning itself (mostly) with truth, and positing that \"only in struggling with the environment\" do data, and derived theories, have meaning, and that \"consequences\", like utility and practicality, are also components of truth. Moreover, pragmatism posits that \"anything\" useful and practical is not always true, arguing that what most contributes to the most human good in the long course is true. In practice, theoretical claims must be \"practically verifiable\", i.e. one should be able to predict and test claims, and, that, ultimately, the needs of humankind should guide human intellectual inquiry.\n\nPragmatic philosophers suggest that the practical, useful understanding of life is more important than searching for an impractical abstract truth about life. William James argued that truth could be made, but not sought. To a pragmatist, the meaning of life is discoverable only via experience.\n\nTheists believe God created the universe and that God had a purpose in doing so. Theists also hold the view that humans find their meaning and purpose for life in God's purpose in creating. Theists further hold that if there were no God to give life ultimate meaning, value and purpose, then life would be absurd.\n\nAccording to existentialism, each man and each woman creates the essence (meaning) of their life; life is not determined by a supernatural god or an earthly authority, one is free. As such, one's ethical prime directives are \"action\", \"freedom\", and \"decision\", thus, existentialism opposes rationalism and positivism. In seeking meaning to life, the existentialist looks to where people find meaning in life, in course of which using only reason as a source of meaning is insufficient; this gives rise to the emotions of anxiety and dread, felt in considering one's free will, and the concomitant awareness of death. According to Jean-Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence; the (essence) of one's life arises \"only\" after one comes to existence.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard spoke about a \"\", arguing that life is full of absurdity, and one must make his and her own values in an indifferent world. One can live meaningfully (free of despair and anxiety) in an unconditional commitment to something finite, and devotes that meaningful life to the commitment, despite the vulnerability inherent to doing so.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer answered: \"What is the meaning of life?\" by stating that one's life reflects one's will, and that the will (life) is an aimless, irrational, and painful drive. Salvation, deliverance, and escape from suffering are in aesthetic contemplation, sympathy for others, and asceticism.\n\nFor Friedrich Nietzsche, life is worth living only if there are goals inspiring one to live. Accordingly, he saw nihilism (\"all that happens is meaningless\") as without goals. He stated that asceticism denies one's living in the world; stated that values are not objective facts, that are rationally necessary, universally binding commitments: our evaluations are interpretations, and not reflections of the world, as it is, in itself, and, therefore, all ideations take place from a particular perspective.\n\nIn absurdist philosophy, the Absurd arises out of the fundamental disharmony between the individual's search for meaning and the apparent meaninglessness of the universe. As beings looking for meaning in a meaningless world, humans have three ways of resolving the dilemma. Kierkegaard and Camus describe the solutions in their works, \"The Sickness Unto Death\" (1849) and \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" (1942):\n\nPer secular humanism, the human species came to be by reproducing successive generations in a progression of unguided evolution as an integral expression of nature, which is self-existing. Human knowledge comes from human observation, experimentation, and rational analysis (the scientific method), and not from supernatural sources; the nature of the universe is what people discern it to be. Likewise, \"values and realities\" are determined \"by means of intelligent inquiry\" and \"are derived from human need and interest as tested by experience\", that is, by critical intelligence. \"As far as we know, the total personality is [a function] of the biological organism transacting in a social and cultural context.\"\n\nPeople determine human purpose without supernatural influence; it is the human personality (general sense) that is the purpose of a human being's life. Humanism seeks to develop and fulfill: \"Humanism affirms our ability and responsibility to lead ethical lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity\". Humanism aims to promote enlightened self-interest and the common good for all people. It is based on the premises that the happiness of the individual person is inextricably linked to the well-being of all humanity, in part because humans are social animals who find meaning in personal relations and because cultural progress benefits everybody living in the culture.\n\nThe philosophical subgenres posthumanism and transhumanism (sometimes used synonymously) are extensions of humanistic values. One should seek the advancement of humanity and of all life to the greatest degree feasible and seek to reconcile Renaissance humanism with the 21st century's technoscientific culture. In this light, every living creature has the right to determine its personal and social \"meaning of life\".\n\nFrom a humanism-psychotherapeutic point of view, the question of the meaning of life could be reinterpreted as \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\" This approach emphasizes that the question is personal—and avoids focusing on cosmic or religious questions about overarching purpose. There are many therapeutic responses to this question. For example, Viktor Frankl argues for \"Dereflection\", which translates largely as: cease endlessly reflecting on the self; instead, engage in life. On the whole, the therapeutic response is that the question itself—what is the meaning of life?—evaporates when one is fully engaged in life. (The question then morphs into more specific worries such as \"What delusions am I under?\"; \"What is blocking my ability to enjoy things?\"; \"Why do I neglect loved-ones?\".) \"See also: Existential Therapy and Irvin Yalom\"\n\nLogical positivists ask: \"What is the meaning of life?\", \"What is the meaning in asking?\" and \"If there are no objective values, then, is life meaningless?\" Ludwig Wittgenstein and the logical positivists said: \"Expressed in language, the question is meaningless\"; because, \"in\" life the statement the \"meaning of x\", usually denotes the \"consequences\" of x, or the \"significance\" of x, or \"what is notable\" about x, etc., thus, when the meaning of life concept equals \"x\", in the statement the \"meaning of x\", the statement becomes recursive, and, therefore, nonsensical, or it might refer to the fact that biological life is essential to having a meaning in life.\n\nThe things (people, events) in the life of a person can have meaning (importance) as parts of a whole, but a discrete meaning of (the) life, itself, aside from those things, cannot be discerned. A person's life has meaning (for themselves, others) as the life events resulting from their achievements, legacy, family, etc., but, to say that life, itself, has meaning, is a misuse of language, since any note of significance, or of consequence, is relevant only \"in\" life (to the living), so rendering the statement erroneous. Bertrand Russell wrote that although he found that his distaste for torture was not like his distaste for broccoli, he found no satisfactory, empirical method of proving this:\nWhen we try to be definite, as to what we mean when we say that this or that is \"the Good,\" we find ourselves involved in very great difficulties. Bentham's creed, that pleasure is the Good, roused furious opposition, and was said to be a pig's philosophy. Neither he nor his opponents could advance any argument. In a scientific question, evidence can be adduced on both sides, and, in the end, one side is seen to have the better case—or, if this does not happen, the question is left undecided. But in a question, as to whether this, or that, is the ultimate Good, there is no evidence, either way; each disputant can only appeal to his own emotions, and employ such rhetorical devices as shall rouse similar emotions in others ... Questions as to \"values\"—that is to say, as to what is good or bad on its own account, independently of its effects—lie outside the domain of science, as the defenders of religion emphatically assert. I think that, in this, they are right, but, I draw the further conclusion, which they do not draw, that questions as to \"values\" lie wholly outside the domain of knowledge. That is to say, when we assert that this, or that, has \"value\", we are giving expression to our own emotions, not to a fact, which would still be true if our personal feelings were different.\n\nPostmodernist thought—broadly speaking—sees human nature as constructed by language, or by structures and institutions of human society. Unlike other forms of philosophy, postmodernism rarely seeks out \"a priori\" or innate meanings in human existence, but instead focuses on analyzing or critiquing \"given\" meanings in order to rationalize or reconstruct them. Anything resembling a \"meaning of life\", in postmodernist terms, can only be understood within a social and linguistic framework, and must be pursued as an escape from the power structures that are already embedded in all forms of speech and interaction. As a rule, postmodernists see awareness of the constraints of language as necessary to escaping those constraints, but different theorists take different views on the nature of this process: from radical reconstruction of meaning by individuals (as in deconstructionism) to theories in which individuals are primarily extensions of language and society, without real autonomy (as in poststructuralism).\n\nAccording to naturalistic pantheism, the meaning of life is to care for and look after nature and the environment.\n\nEmbodied cognition uses the neurological basis of emotion, speech, and cognition to understand the nature of thought. Cognitive neuropsychology has identified brain areas necessary for these abilities, and genetic studies show that the gene FOXP2 affects neuroplasticity which underlies language fluency. \nGeorge Lakoff, a professor of cognitive linguistics and philosophy, advances the view that metaphors are the usual basis of meaning, not the logic of verbal symbol manipulation. Computers use logic programming to effectively query databases but humans rely on a trained biological neural network. Post modern philosophies that use the indeterminacy of symbolic language to deny definite meaning ignore those who feel they know what they mean and feel that their interlocutors know what they mean. Choosing the correct metaphor results in enough common understanding to pursue questions such as the meaning of life. Improved knowledge of brain function should result in better treatments producing healthier brains. When combined with more effective training, a sound personal assessment as to the meaning of one’s life should be straightforward.\n\nThe Mohist philosophers believed that the purpose of life was universal, impartial love. Mohism promoted a philosophy of impartial caring—a person should care equally for all other individuals, regardless of their actual relationship to him or her. The expression of this indiscriminate caring is what makes man a righteous being in Mohist thought. This advocacy of impartiality was a target of attack by the other Chinese philosophical schools, most notably the Confucians who believed that while love should be unconditional, it should not be indiscriminate. For example, children should hold a greater love for their parents than for random strangers.\n\nConfucianism recognizes human nature in accordance with the need for discipline and education. Because humankind is driven by both positive and negative influences, Confucianists see a goal in achieving virtue through strong relationships and reasoning as well as minimizing the negative. This emphasis on normal living is seen in the Confucianist scholar Tu Wei-Ming's quote, \"we can realize the ultimate meaning of life in ordinary human existence.\"\n\nThe Legalists believed that finding the purpose of life was a meaningless effort. To the Legalists, only practical knowledge was valuable, especially as it related to the function and performance of the state.\n\nThe religious perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of an implicit purpose not defined by humans. According to the Charter for Compassion signed by many of the world's leading religious and secular organizations, the core of religion is the golden rule of `treat others as you would have them treat you'. The Charter's founder, Karen Armstrong, quotes the ancient Rabbi Hillel who suggested that `the rest is commentary'. This is not to reduce the commentary's importance, and Armstrong considers that its study, interpretation and ritual are the means by which religious people internalize and live the golden rule.\n\nZoroastrianism is the religion and philosophy named after its prophet Zoroaster, which is believed to have influenced the beliefs of Judaism and its descendant religions. Zoroastrians believe in a universe created by a transcendental God, Ahura Mazda, to whom all worship is ultimately directed. Ahura Mazda's creation is \"asha\", truth and order, and it is in conflict with its antithesis, \"druj\", falsehood and disorder. (See also Zoroastrian eschatology).\n\nSince humanity possesses free will, people must be responsible for their moral choices. By using free will, people must take an active role in the universal conflict, with good thoughts, good words and good deeds to ensure happiness and to keep chaos at bay.\n\nIn Islam, humanity's ultimate purpose is to discover their creator Allah () through His signs, and be grateful to Him through sincere love and devotion. This is practically shown by following the Divine guidelines revealed in the Qur'an and the Tradition of the Prophet. Earthly life is a test, determining one's position of closeness to Allah in the hereafter. A person will either be close to Him and His Love in \"Jannah\" (Paradise) or far away in \"Jahannam\" (Hell).\n\nFor Allah's satisfaction, via the Qur'an, all Muslims must believe in God, his revelations, his angels, his messengers, and in the \"Day of Judgment\". The Qur'an describes the purpose of creation as follows: \"Blessed be he in whose hand is the kingdom, he is powerful over all things, who created death and life that he might examine which of you is best in deeds, and he is the almighty, the forgiving\" (Qur'an 67:1–2) and \"And I (Allâh) created not the jinn and mankind except that they should be obedient (to Allah).\" (Qur'an 51:56). Obedience testifies to the oneness of God in his lordship, his names, and his attributes. Terrenal life is a test; how one \"acts\" (behaves) determines whether one's soul goes to Jannat (Heaven) or to Jahannam (Hell). However, on the day of Judgement the final decision is of Allah alone.\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are duties incumbent to every Muslim; they are: Shahadah (profession of faith); salat (ritual prayer); Zakah (charity); Sawm (fasting during Ramadan), and Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca). They derive from the Hadith works, notably of Sahih Al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. The five pillars are not mentioned directly in the Quran.\n\nBeliefs differ among the Kalam. The Sunni and the Ahmadiyya concept of pre-destination is divine decree; likewise, the Shi'a concept of pre-destination is divine justice; in the esoteric view of the Sufis, the universe exists only for God's pleasure; Creation is a grand game, wherein Allah is the greatest prize.\n\nThe Sufi view of the meaning of life stems from the hadith qudsi that states \"I (God) was a Hidden Treasure and loved to be known. Therefore I created the Creation that I might be known.\" One possible interpretation of this view is that the meaning of life for an individual is to know the nature of God, and the purpose of all of creation is to reveal that nature, and to prove its value as the ultimate treasure, that is God. However, this hadith is stated in various forms and interpreted in various ways by people, such, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá of the Bahá'í Faith, and in Ibn'Arabī's Fuṣūṣ al-Ḥikam.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith emphasizes the unity of humanity. To Bahá'ís, the purpose of life is focused on spiritual growth and service to humanity. Human beings are viewed as intrinsically spiritual beings. People's lives in this material world provide extended opportunities to grow, to develop divine qualities and virtues, and the prophets were sent by God to facilitate this.\n\nIn the Judaic world view, the meaning of life is to elevate the physical world ('Olam HaZeh') and prepare it for the world to come ('Olam HaBa'), the messianic era. This is called Tikkun Olam (\"Fixing the World\"). Olam HaBa can also mean the spiritual afterlife, and there is debate concerning the eschatological order. However, Judaism is not focused on personal salvation, but on communal (between man and man) and individual (between man and God) spiritualised actions in this world.\n\nJudaism's most important feature is the worship of a single, incomprehensible, transcendent, one, indivisible, absolute Being, who created and governs the universe. Closeness with the God of Israel is through study of His Torah, and adherence to its mitzvot (divine laws). In traditional Judaism, God established a special covenant with a people, the people of Israel, at Mount Sinai, giving the Jewish commandments. Torah comprises the written Pentateuch and the transcribed oral tradition, further developed through the generations. The Jewish people are intended as \"a kingdom of priests and a holy nation\" and a \"light to the Nations\", influencing the other peoples to keep their own religio-ethical Seven Laws of Noah. The messianic era is seen as the perfection of this dual path to God.\n\nJewish observances involve ethical and ritual, affirmative and prohibitive injunctions. Modern Jewish denominations differ over the nature, relevance and emphases of mitzvot. Jewish philosophy emphasises that God is not affected or benefited, but the individual and society benefit by drawing close to God. The rationalist Maimonides sees the ethical and ritual divine commandments as a necessary, but insufficient preparation for philosophical understanding of God, with its love and awe. Among fundamental values in the Torah are pursuit of justice, compassion, peace, kindness, hard work, prosperity, humility, and education. The world to come, prepared in the present, elevates man to an everlasting connection with God. Simeon the Righteous says, \"the world stands on three things: on Torah, on worship, and on acts of loving kindness.\" The prayer book relates, \"blessed is our God who created us for his honor...and planted within us everlasting life.\" Of this context, the Talmud states, \"everything that God does is for the good,\" including suffering.\n\nThe Jewish mystical Kabbalah gives complimentary esoteric meanings of life. As well as Judaism providing an immanent relationship with God (personal theism), in Kabbalah the spiritual and physical creation is a paradoxical manifestation of the immanent aspects of God's Being (panentheism), related to the Shekhinah (Divine feminine). Jewish observance unites the sephirot (Divine attributes) on high, restoring harmony to creation. In Lurianic Kabbalah, the meaning of life is the messianic rectification of the shattered sparks of God's persona, exiled in physical existence (the Kelipot shells), through the actions of Jewish observance. Through this, in Hasidic Judaism the ultimate essential \"desire\" of God is the revelation of the Omnipresent Divine essence through materiality, achieved by man from within his limited physical realm, when the body will give life to the soul.\n\nChristianity has its roots in Judaism, and shares much of the latter faith's ontology. Its central beliefs derive from the teachings of Jesus Christ as presented in the New Testament. Life's purpose in Christianity is to seek divine salvation through the grace of God and intercession of Christ (John 11:26). The New Testament speaks of God wanting to have a relationship with humans both in this life and the life to come, which can happen only if one's sins are forgiven (John 3:16–21; 2 Peter 3:9).\n\nIn the Christian view, humankind was made in the Image of God and perfect, but the Fall of Man caused the progeny of the first Parents to inherit Original Sin and its consequences. Christ's passion, death and resurrection provide the means for transcending that impure state (Romans 6:23). The good news that this restoration from sin is now possible is called the gospel. The specific process of appropriating salvation through Christ and maintaining a relationship with God varies between different denominations of Christians, but all rely on faith in Christ and the gospel as the fundamental starting point. Salvation through faith in God is found in Ephesians 2:8–9 – \"For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; not as a result of works, that no one should boast\" (NASB; 1973). The gospel maintains that through this belief, the barrier that sin has created between man and God is destroyed, thereby allowing God to regenerate (change) the believer and instill in them a new heart after God's own will with the ability to live righteously before him. This is what the terms \"Born again\" or \"saved\" almost always refer to.\n\nIn the \"Westminster Shorter Catechism\", the first question is: \"What is the chief end of Man?\" (that is, \"What is Man's main purpose?\"). The answer is: \"Man's chief end is to glorify God, and enjoy him forever\". God requires one to obey the revealed moral law, saying: \"love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbour as yourself\". The \"Baltimore Catechism\" answers the question \"Why did God make you?\" by saying \"God made me to know Him, to love Him, and to serve Him in this world, and to be happy with Him forever in heaven.\"\n\nThe Apostle Paul also answers this question in his speech on the Areopagus in Athens: \"And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, so that they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us.\"\n\nCatholicism's way of thinking is better expressed through the Principle and Foundation of St. Ignatius of Loyola: \"The human person is created to praise, reverence, and serve God Our Lord, and by doing so, to save his or her soul. All other things on the face of the earth are created for human beings in order to help them pursue the end for which they are created. It follows from this that one must use other created things, in so far as they help towards one's end, and free oneself from them, in so far as they are obstacles to one's end. To do this, we need to make ourselves indifferent to all created things, provided the matter is subject to our free choice and there is no other prohibition. Thus, as far as we are concerned, we should not want health more than illness, wealth more than poverty, fame more than disgrace, a long life more than a short one, and similarly for all the rest, but we should desire and choose only what helps us more towards the end for which we are created.\"\n\nMormonism teaches that the purpose of life on Earth is to gain knowledge and experience and to have joy. Mormons believe that humans are literally the spirit children of God the Father, and thus have the potential to progress to become like Him. Mormons teach that God provided his children the choice to come to Earth, which is considered a crucial stage in their development—wherein a mortal body, coupled with the freedom to choose, makes for an environment to learn and grow. The Fall of Adam is not viewed as an unfortunate or unplanned cancellation of God's original plan for a paradise; rather, the opposition found in mortality is an essential element of God's plan because the process of enduring and overcoming challenges, difficulties, and temptations provides opportunities to gain wisdom and strength, thereby learning to appreciate and choose good and reject evil. Because God is just, he allows those who were not taught the gospel during mortality to receive it after death in the spirit world, so that all of his children have the opportunity to return to live with God, and reach their full potential.\n\nA recent alternative Christian theological discourse interprets Jesus as revealing that the purpose of life is to elevate our compassionate response to human suffering; nonetheless, the conventional Christian position is that people are justified by belief in the propitiatory sacrifice of Jesus' death on the cross.\n\nHinduism is a religious category including many beliefs and traditions. Since Hinduism was the way of expressing meaningful living for a long time, before there was a need for naming it as a separate religion, Hindu doctrines are supplementary and complementary in nature, generally non-exclusive, suggestive and tolerant in content. Most believe that the ātman (spirit, soul)—the person's true \"self\"—is eternal. In part, this stems from Hindu beliefs that spiritual development occurs across many lifetimes, and goals should match the state of development of the individual. There are four possible aims to human life, known as the \"purusharthas\" (ordered from least to greatest): (i)\"Kāma\" (wish, desire, love and sensual pleasure), (ii)\"Artha\" (wealth, prosperity, glory), (iii)\"Dharma\" (righteousness, duty, morality, virtue, ethics), encompassing notions such as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and satya (truth) and (iv)\"Moksha\" (liberation, i.e. liberation from Saṃsāra, the cycle of reincarnation).\n\nIn all schools of Hinduism, the meaning of life is tied up in the concepts of karma (causal action), sansara (the cycle of birth and rebirth), and moksha (liberation). Existence is conceived as the progression of the ātman (similar to the western concept of a soul) across numerous lifetimes, and its ultimate progression towards liberation from karma. Particular goals for life are generally subsumed under broader yogas (practices) or dharma (correct living) which are intended to create more favorable reincarnations, though they are generally positive acts in this life as well. Traditional schools of Hinduism often worship Devas which are manifestations of Ishvara (a personal or chosen God); these Devas are taken as ideal forms to be identified with, as a form of spiritual improvement.\n\nIn short, the goal is to realize the fundamental truth about oneself. This thought is conveyed in the Mahāvākyas (\"Tat Tvam Asi\" (thou art that), \"Aham Brahmāsmi\", \"Prajñānam Brahma\" and \"Ayam Ātmā Brahma\" (the soul and the world are one)).\n\nLater schools reinterpreted the vedas to focus on Brahman, \"The One Without a Second\", as a central God-like figure.\n\nIn monist Advaita Vedanta, ātman is ultimately indistinguishable from Brahman, and the goal of life is to know or realize that one's ātman (soul) is identical to Brahman. To the Upanishads, whoever becomes fully aware of the ātman, as one's core of self, realizes identity with Brahman, and, thereby, achieves Moksha (liberation, freedom).\n\nDvaita Vedanta and other bhakti schools have a dualist interpretation. Brahman is seen as a supreme being with a personality and manifest qualities. The ātman depends upon Brahman for its existence; the meaning of life is achieving Moksha through love of God and upon His grace.\n\nVaishnavism is a branch of Hinduism in which the principal belief is the identification of Vishnu or Narayana as the one supreme God. This belief contrasts with the Krishna-centered traditions, such as Vallabha, Nimbaraka and Gaudiya, in which Krishna is considered to be the One and only Supreme God and the source of all avataras.\n\nVaishnava theology includes the central beliefs of Hinduism such as monotheism, reincarnation, samsara, karma, and the various Yoga systems, but with a particular emphasis on devotion (bhakti) to Vishnu through the process of Bhakti yoga, often including singing Vishnu's name's (bhajan), meditating upon his form (dharana) and performing deity worship (puja). The practices of deity worship are primarily based on texts such as Pañcaratra and various Samhitas.\n\nOne popular school of thought, Gaudiya Vaishnavism, teaches the concept of Achintya Bheda Abheda. In this, Krishna is worshipped as the single true God, and all living entities are eternal parts and the Supreme Personality of the Godhead Krishna. Thus the constitutional position of a living entity is to serve the Lord with love and devotion. The purpose of human life especially is to think beyond the animalistic way of eating, sleeping, mating and defending and engage the higher intelligence to revive the lost relationship with Krishna.\n\nJainism is a religion originating in ancient India, its ethical system promotes self-discipline above all else. Through following the ascetic teachings of Jina, a human achieves enlightenment (perfect knowledge). Jainism divides the universe into living and non-living beings. Only when the living become attached to the non-living does suffering result. Therefore, happiness is the result of self-conquest and freedom from external objects. The meaning of life may then be said to be to use the physical body to achieve self-realization and bliss.\n\nJains believe that every human is responsible for his or her actions and all living beings have an eternal soul, \"jiva\". Jains believe all souls are equal because they all possess the potential of being liberated and attaining Moksha. The Jain view of karma is that every action, every word, every thought produces, besides its visible, an invisible, transcendental effect on the soul.\n\nJainism includes strict adherence to ahimsa (or \"ahinsā\"), a form of nonviolence that goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice a lifestyle similar to veganism due to the violence of modern dairy farms, and others exclude root vegetables from their diets in order to preserve the lives of the plants from which they eat.\n\nBuddhists practice to embrace with mindfulness the ill-being (suffering) and well-being that is present in life. Buddhists practice to see the causes of ill-being and well-being in life. For example, one of the causes of suffering is unhealthy attachment to objects material or non-material. The Buddhist sūtras and tantras do not speak about \"the meaning of life\" or \"the purpose of life\", but about the potential of human life to end suffering, for example through embracing (not suppressing or denying) cravings and conceptual attachments. Attaining and perfecting dispassion is a process of many levels that ultimately results in the state of Nirvana. Nirvana means freedom from both suffering and rebirth.\nTheravada Buddhism is generally considered to be close to the early Buddhist practice. It promotes the concept of Vibhajjavada (Pali), literally \"Teaching of Analysis\", which says that insight must come from the aspirant's experience, critical investigation, and reasoning instead of by blind faith. However, the Theravadin tradition also emphasizes heeding the advice of the wise, considering such advice and evaluation of one's own experiences to be the two tests by which practices should be judged. The Theravadin goal is liberation (or freedom) from suffering, according to the Four Noble Truths. This is attained in the achievement of Nirvana, or Unbinding which also ends the repeated cycle of birth, old age, sickness and death. The way to attain Nirvana is by following and practicing the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nMahayana Buddhist schools de-emphasize the traditional view (still practiced in Theravada) of the release from individual Suffering (Dukkha) and attainment of Awakening (Nirvana). In Mahayana, the Buddha is seen as an eternal, immutable, inconceivable, omnipresent being. The fundamental principles of Mahayana doctrine are based on the possibility of universal liberation from suffering for all beings, and the existence of the transcendent Buddha-nature, which is the eternal Buddha essence present, but hidden and unrecognised, in all living beings.\n\nPhilosophical schools of Mahayana Buddhism, such as Chan/Zen and the vajrayana Tibetan and Shingon schools, explicitly teach that bodhisattvas should refrain from full liberation, allowing themselves to be reincarnated into the world until all beings achieve enlightenment. Devotional schools such as Pure Land Buddhism seek the aid of celestial buddhas—individuals who have spent lifetimes accumulating positive karma, and use that accumulation to aid all.\n\nThe monotheistic Sikh religion was founded by Guru Nanak Dev, the term \"Sikh\" means student, which denotes that followers will lead their lives forever learning. This system of religious philosophy and expression has been traditionally known as the Gurmat (literally \"the counsel of the gurus\") or the Sikh Dharma. The followers of Sikhism are ordained to follow the teachings of the ten Sikh Gurus, or enlightened leaders, as well as the holy scripture entitled the \"Gurū Granth Sāhib\", which includes selected works of many philosophers from diverse socio-economic and religious backgrounds.\n\nThe Sikh Gurus say that salvation can be obtained by following various spiritual paths, so Sikhs do not have a monopoly on salvation: \"The Lord dwells in every heart, and every heart has its own way to reach Him.\" Sikhs believe that all people are equally important before God. Sikhs balance their moral and spiritual values with the quest for knowledge, and they aim to promote a life of peace and equality but also of positive action.\n\nA key distinctive feature of Sikhism is a non-anthropomorphic concept of God, to the extent that one can interpret God as the Universe itself (pantheism). Sikhism thus sees life as an opportunity to understand this God as well as to discover the divinity which lies in each individual. While a full understanding of God is beyond human beings, Nanak described God as not wholly unknowable, and stressed that God must be seen from \"the inward eye\", or the \"heart\", of a human being: devotees must meditate to progress towards enlightenment and the ultimate destination of a Sikh is to lose the ego completely in the love of the lord and finally merge into the almighty creator. Nanak emphasized the revelation through meditation, as its rigorous application permits the existence of communication between God and human beings.\n\nTaoist cosmogony emphasizes the need for all sentient beings and all man to return to the \"primordial\" or to rejoin with the \"Oneness\" of the Universe by way of self-cultivation and self-realization. All adherents should understand and be in tune with the ultimate truth.\n\nTaoists believe all things were originally from Taiji and Tao, and the meaning in life for the adherents is to realize the temporal nature of the existence. \"Only introspection can then help us to find our innermost reasons for living ... the simple answer is here within ourselves.\"\n\nShinto is the native religion of Japan. Shinto means \"the path of the kami\", but more specifically, it can be taken to mean \"the divine crossroad where the kami chooses his way\". The \"divine\" crossroad signifies that all the universe is divine spirit. This foundation of free will, choosing one's way, means that life is a creative process.\n\nShinto wants life to live, not to die. Shinto sees death as pollution and regards life as the realm where the divine spirit seeks to purify itself by rightful self-development. Shinto wants individual human life to be prolonged forever on earth as a victory of the divine spirit in preserving its objective personality in its highest forms. The presence of evil in the world, as conceived by Shinto, does not stultify the divine nature by imposing on divinity responsibility for being able to relieve human suffering while refusing to do so. The sufferings of life are the sufferings of the divine spirit in search of progress in the objective world.\n\nThere are many new religious movements in East Asia, and some with millions of followers: Chondogyo, Tenrikyo, Cao Đài, and Seicho-No-Ie. New religions typically have unique explanations for the meaning of life. For example, in Tenrikyo, one is expected to live a Joyous Life by participating in practices that create happiness for oneself and others.\n\nThe mystery of life and its true meaning is an often recurring subject in popular culture, featured in entertainment media and various forms of art.\n\nIn \"Monty Python's The Meaning of Life\", there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing \"the meaning of life\", which she opens and reads out to the audience: \"Well, it's nothing very special. Uh, try to be nice to people, avoid eating fat, read a good book every now and then, get some walking in, and try to live together in peace and harmony with people of all creeds and nations.\"\n\nMany other Python sketches and songs are also existential in nature, questioning the importance we place on life (\"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\") and other meaning-of-life related questioning. John Cleese also had his sit-com character Basil Fawlty contemplating the futility of his own existence in Fawlty Towers.\n\nIn Douglas Adams' popular comedy book, movie, television, and radio series \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything is given the numeric solution \"42\", after seven and a half million years of calculation by a giant supercomputer called Deep Thought. When this answer is met with confusion and anger from its constructors, Deep Thought explains that \"I think the problem such as it was, was too broadly based. You never actually stated what the question was.\". Deep Thought then constructs another computer—the Earth—to calculate what the Ultimate Question actually is. \nLater Ford and Arthur manage to extract the question as the Earth computer would have rendered it. That question turns out to be \"what do you get if you multiply six by nine\", and it is realised that the program was ruined by the unexpected arrival of the Golgafrinchans on Earth, and so the actual Ultimate Question Of Life, The Universe, And Everything remains unknown. While 6 x 9 would be written as 42 in the tridecimal numeral system, author Douglas Adams claimed that this was mere coincidence and completely serendipitous.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer the Heretic\", a representation of God agrees to tell Homer what the meaning of life is, but the show's credits begin to roll just as he starts to say what it is.\n\nIn \"Red vs. Blue\" season 1 episode 1 the character Simmons asks Grif the question \"Why are we here?\" and is a major line in the series.\n\nIn \"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure\", the characters are asked how we should live our lives, and reply with a version of the golden rule `be excellent to each other' followed by 'party on, dudes!'.\n\nIn \"Person of Interest\" season 5 episode 13, an artificial intelligence referred to as The Machine tells Harold Finch that the secret of life is \"Everyone dies alone. But if you mean something to someone, if you help someone, or love someone. If even a single person remembers you then maybe you never really die at all.\" This phrase is then repeated at the very end of the show to add emphasis to the finale.\n\n\"What is the meaning of life?\" is a question many people ask themselves at some point during their lives, most in the context \"What is the purpose of life?\". Some popular answers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40370404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40370404", "title": "Mohammad Shafiq Hamdam", "text": "Mohammad Shafiq Hamdam\n\nMohammad Shafiq Hamdam (Pashto: ډاکټر محمد شفیق همدم) is a writer and a political activist in Afghanistan. He is senior government official in Afghanistan and serves as an Advisor to The President Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Chairman of the Afghan Anti-Corruption Network (AACN).\n\nHamdam was born in January 1981 in the Alishing village, which is located in Laghman Province of Afghanistan. In 1986 he enrolled in Lam-e-Shahid High School in Kabul. In 1999 he graduated from Shahid Muhammad Arif High School in Jalalabad, and in the same year he enrolled in Political Science Faculty of Nangarhar University. In 2002 he earned his Bachelor of Health Sciences from Nangarhar Institute of Health Sciences. In 2003 he was rewarded Advance Diploma in Administration and Economics from The Swiss College of Administration and Economy. In 2010 he graduated from George C Marshall Center, European Center for Security Studies in Germany, where he studied advance security and international relations. He is a graduate of Executive Programme John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He also earned a Master of National Security from The Institute of World Politics in Washington DC. He is fluent in several languages, including Dari, Pashto and English.\n\nHamdam works as an Advisor to The President of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in international affairs. As a Deputy Senior Advisor to The President, he is working on UN affairs in Afghanistan. The Senior Advisory Office of The President on UN Affairs (SAOP UN-Affairs) has established in early 2017 at the office of The President as policy and advisory body. The SAOP UN-Affairs worked on One UN for Afghanistan, a strategic framework that has replaced The United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) for Afghanistan. The advisory also successfully drafted a mutual accountability framework between the government of Afghanistan and the United Nations. The One UN or Delivering As One (DAO) was one of the most challenging task for the UN family and the Afghan government, but the SAOP was able to do it successfully. Under the new framework the UN has to align its programs and projects based on the national strategies and priorities of Afghanistan.\n\nHamdam closely worked with and advised senior NATO, U.S.and international policymakers on political and development affairs of Afghanistan, South and Center Asia. He serves as the Chairman of Afghan Anti-Corruption Network (AACN), the largest and leading network of civil society organizations fighting against corruption. He worked as subject matter expert for the University of Maryland, senior research fellow at Civil Vision International. From 2008 to 2014 he worked as senior media, political and public diplomacy advisor to \n\nthe NATO senior civilian representative in Afghanistan He is a Member of Board of Directors, Modern Organization for Development of Education (MODE), executive board chairman of Anti-Corruption Watch Organization. He is also the founder of Youth For Peace, Afghan Youth Against Corruption, Anti-Corruption Watch Organization, Kabul Tribune, an online newspaper and co-founder of the Afghan Women Coalition Against Corruption. Hamdam is a member of Afghan Young Leaders Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES), Program Associate of Hiroshima Peace Builders Center, a member of the United Nation Coalition Against Corruption (UNCAC), a member of Voice Against Corruption, a member of the Afghan Civil Society for Advocacy. In 2009 presidential and provincial elections of Afghanistan he worked for Moby Media, Tolo TV as a presenter of political round-table during 2009 presidential elections. From 2007 to 2008 he worked with the US Department of Defence as Media Coordinator and Spokesman for the US Forces in Eastern Afghanistan, prior to this he worked for four years as Culture Advisor and Linguist for the US forces in Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom). In the years 2003 and 2004 Hamdam worked as a Project Manager for the Demobilization Disarmament and Reintegration project of the United Nations in Kabul. Between 2003 and 2004 he worked as a Senior Radiographer and Radiologist Technologist at a private clinic in Jalalabad city of Afghanistan. Between 2001 and 2003 he was freelancer interpreter and prior to that from 1998 to 2001 he worked as a Project Assistant with the Health Net International TPO and World Health Organization in Jalalabad city in eastern Afghanistan. The Asia Society recognized him as a 21 Young Asia Leaders.\n\nHamdam said that corruption is the biggest problem, which feeds insecurity in Afghanistan as well as the insurgency, poppy cultivation, drug processing and drug trafficking. He formed the biggest ever group of volunteer social activists from across Afghanistan \n\nto fight corruption, the most dangerous and toughest job in one of the most corrupt and unstable country in the world. Through peaceful demonstration and protests such a 5 km countrywide race against corruption, he mobilized thousands of citizens to pressure the government for reform, through 5 km race against corruption. He has also mobilized youth, students and women to take part in the fight against corruption. He is an outspoken activist, who has disclosed cases of senior corrupt official and he has advocated for the trail and persecution of cabinet members and senior politicians. Hamdam exposed land garbing, corruption of senior government officials and cabinet members. He has advocated for election transparency and reform. He also played a key role in exposing Kabul Bank corruption, where near on billion USD was looted in corruption and resulted in the collapse of the bank.\n\nHamdam was a critic of Karzai government for not taking firm steps to fight corruptions. In his interview with the CBS TV he said that corruption starts from the street and goes to the palace and he called Karzai's government the most corrupt government ever. He has repeatedly called and pressured Afghan government for fighting corruption and he looks at corruption as a major problem for the country.\n\nHamdam is closely following Afghanistan and regional countries developments. Following Afghanistan's affairs as an observer, He has attended International Conference on Afghanistan, The Hague 2009 in Netherlands, NATO 60 Summit in Strasburg and Kehl, France in 2009, Kabul International conference in 2010, NATO Summit in Lisbon Portugal in 2010, 2nd International Bonn Conference about Afghanistan, the NATO Chicago Summit in 2011 and tens of other national and international conferences on Afghanistan. As an observer he observed Afghanistan presidential elections in 2004 and 2009, Afghan parliamentary and provincial elections in 2005 and Traditional Loya Jirga on the Afghanistan and the U.S. Strategic Partnership Agreement.\n\nAdvocating for a closer relationship with the western allies, Hamdam played a key role in signing the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA) between Afghanistan and US. Among other Afghan leaders and activists, he also signed the letter to president Obama advocating for the BSA and the letter said: We strongly echo the endorsement of the Bilateral Security Agreement last month at the \"Loya Jirga \"and reiterate that the agreement should be signed without delay. Our voice reflects a growing chorus from all segments of the Afghan society, including our religious and business community leaders, who remain concerned about the future of our country and wish to see the expeditious finalization of the BSA.\n\nRepresenting Afghanistan in the European parliament, he advocates for accountability, transparency and fighting corruption. He urged leaderships of European Union, European Parliament and European Commission to support Afghans in the fight against corruption. He wrote in one of his articles to EU leaders: Afghanistan alone cannot reach its goal of reducing corruption; it requires the support of the international community. Without delay, serious actions should be taken to eliminate the problem. These actions should include empowering civil society organizations and the media to play a bigger role in the fight against corruption. If Afghanistan is to qualify for aid over the coming years, seriousness, strong commitment, political determination, and practical decisions will be needed in order to implement the laws and strategies required to overcome the problem of corruption in Afghanistan.\n\nHamdam was often criticized for his pro-western opinions by some Afghan politicians and through some anti-western figures. He is seen as a pro-west. As a Senior NATO Public Diplomacy Adviser, he has often defended NATO policies and by extremist he is seen as a NATO-backed activist. Hamdam has defended in many occasions NATO's position and he has advocated for Afghanistan to become a NATO member. He was widely criticized by Muslim extremists and regional actors for his article, where he clearly stated that Afghanistan should be a NATO member. After completion of ISAF mission, he advised in one of his articles that \"Afghan government and NATO should be able to enter a new, comprehensive, closer, stronger and mutual relationship. It should be based on mutual commitment and long-term cooperation with full respect to the sovereignty of Afghanistan. The relation which can possibly make Afghanistan a NATO member country in the future.\" While some analyst called the ISAF mission as a failure, but Hamdam called that a historic and major success.\n\nHe writes for \"The Huffington Post\" and many leading Afghan papers and journals on political, security and foreign affairs. Talking about the corruption related issues and Afghanistan's affairs he has been appearing in numbers of national and International media outlets, such as Tolo TV, Ariana TV, RFE/RL, BBC, CBS, AFP, ARD, VOA, TRT TV, Aljazeera TV, \"The Washington Post\" and other key national and international media outlets.\n\nHe is optimistic about Afghanistan. After the end of one decade ISAF mission in Afghanistan, he wrote on the Open Think Thank on Foreign Policy that Afghanistan of 2001 is not comparable with the Afghanistan of 2015. With 352,000 strong Afghan National Security Forces, backed by the US and NATO, an increasingly vibrant civil society sector, and a large youth population, Afghans are hopeful that their country will never return to the dark era. For this to remain effective, Afghanistan and its partners must continue to broaden those achievements over the next decade, ushering in a new era of transformation.\n\nHamdam looks at democracy as a new phenomenon in Afghanistan and emphasizes on reform and fighting corruption. He wrote in Unipath is a professional military magazine published quarterly by the Commander of the United States Central Command as an international forum for military personnel in the Middle East and Central Asia region: Governments and institutions work differently in democratic societies. So it's not only fighting terrorism and extremists, but good governance that is a key priority for Afghanistan. Weak rule of law and the existence of \"impunity circles\" and safe havens for corrupt individuals and officials in Afghanistan and abroad have contributed to violations of human rights and injustice.\n\nHe believes that the Afghan and US government were not able to define their relationship during more than a decade. Hamdam wrote in his opinion editorial, \"A Decade of Relations Without Definition\", that the Afghan-U.S. relationship should not be only based on dying and killing for each other, but it should be based on social, economic and political interests as well. Numerous opportunities already exist to build that long-term and stable relationship. At the moment, some Afghans see the presence of the U.S. in Afghanistan as a world policing and a force against Al-Qaeda and Taliban. What if there are no more Taliban and war in Afghanistan? How will the U.S. and Afghan government justify their relations? Should this relationship remain merely a donor-recipient exchange, a relationship only to finance, train and advise Afghan National Security Forces? These questions are urgent. The two countries must, through inclusive dialogue, define their relationship and must reach for a vision beyond a militarized association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1050551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1050551", "title": "Multiple-criteria decision analysis", "text": "Multiple-criteria decision analysis\n\nMultiple-criteria decision-making (MCDM) or multiple-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) is a sub-discipline of operations research that explicitly evaluates multiple conflicting criteria in decision making (both in daily life and in settings such as business, government and medicine). Conflicting criteria are typical in evaluating options: cost or price is usually one of the main criteria, and some measure of quality is typically another criterion, easily in conflict with the cost. In purchasing a car, cost, comfort, safety, and fuel economy may be some of the main criteria we consider – it is unusual that the cheapest car is the most comfortable and the safest one. In portfolio management, we are interested in getting high returns but at the same time reducing our risks, but the stocks that have the potential of bringing high returns typically also carry high risks of losing money. In a service industry, customer satisfaction and the cost of providing service are fundamental conflicting criteria.\n\nIn our daily lives, we usually weigh multiple criteria implicitly and we may be comfortable with the consequences of such decisions that are made based on only intuition. On the other hand, when stakes are high, it is important to properly structure the problem and explicitly evaluate multiple criteria. In making the decision of whether to build a nuclear power plant or not, and where to build it, there are not only very complex issues involving multiple criteria, but there are also multiple parties who are deeply affected by the consequences.\n\nStructuring complex problems well and considering multiple criteria explicitly leads to more informed and better decisions. There have been important advances in this field since the start of the modern multiple-criteria decision-making discipline in the early 1960s. A variety of approaches and methods, many implemented by specialized decision-making software, have been developed for their application in an array of disciplines, ranging from politics and business to the environment and energy.\n\nMCDM or MCDA are well-known acronyms for \"multiple-criteria decision-making\" and \"multiple-criteria decision analysis\"; Stanley Zionts helped popularizing the acronym with his 1979 article \"MCDM – If not a Roman Numeral, then What?\", intended for an entrepreneurial audience. \n\nMCDM is concerned with structuring and solving decision and planning problems involving multiple criteria. The purpose is to support decision-makers facing such problems. Typically, there does not exist a unique optimal solution for such problems and it is necessary to use decision-maker's preferences to differentiate between solutions.\n\n\"Solving\" can be interpreted in different ways. It could correspond to choosing the \"best\" alternative from a set of available alternatives (where \"best\" can be interpreted as \"the most preferred alternative\" of a decision-maker). Another interpretation of \"solving\" could be choosing a small set of good alternatives, or grouping alternatives into different preference sets. An extreme interpretation could be to find all \"efficient\" or \"nondominated\" alternatives (which we will define shortly).\nThe difficulty of the problem originates from the presence of more than one criterion. There is no longer a unique optimal solution to an MCDM problem that can be obtained without incorporating preference information. The concept of an optimal solution is often replaced by the set of nondominated solutions. A nondominated solution has the property that it is not possible to move away from it to any other solution without sacrificing in at least one criterion. Therefore, it makes sense for the decision-maker to choose a solution from the nondominated set. Otherwise, she/he could do better in terms of some or all of the criteria, and not do worse in any of them. Generally, however, the set of nondominated solutions is too large to be presented to the decision-maker for the final choice. Hence we need tools that help the decision-maker focus on the preferred solutions (or alternatives). Normally one has to \"tradeoff\" certain criteria for others.\n\nMCDM has been an active area of research since the 1970s. There are several MCDM-related organizations including the International Society on Multi-criteria Decision Making, Euro Working Group on MCDA, and INFORMS Section on MCDM. For a history see: Köksalan, Wallenius and Zionts (2011).\nMCDM draws upon knowledge in many fields including:\n\n\nThere are different classifications of MCDM problems and methods. A major distinction between MCDM problems is based on whether the solutions are explicitly or implicitly defined.\n\n\nWhether it is an evaluation problem or a design problem, preference information of DMs is required in order to differentiate between solutions. The solution methods for MCDM problems are commonly classified based on the timing of preference information obtained from the DM.\n\nThere are methods that require the DM's preference information at the start of the process, transforming the problem into essentially a single criterion problem. These methods are said to operate by \"prior articulation of preferences\". Methods based on estimating a value function or using the concept of \"outranking relations\", analytical hierarchy process, and some decision rule-based methods try to solve multiple criteria evaluation problems utilizing prior articulation of preferences. Similarly, there are methods developed to solve multiple-criteria design problems using prior articulation of preferences by constructing a value function. Perhaps the most well-known of these methods is goal programming. Once the value function is constructed, the resulting single objective mathematical program is solved to obtain a preferred solution.\n\nSome methods require preference information from the DM throughout the solution process. These are referred to as interactive methods or methods that require \"progressive articulation of preferences\". These methods have been well-developed for both the multiple criteria evaluation (see for example Geoffrion, Dyer and Feinberg, 1972, and Köksalan and Sagala, 1995 ) and design problems (see Steuer, 1986).\n\nMultiple-criteria design problems typically require the solution of a series of mathematical programming models in order to reveal implicitly defined solutions. For these problems, a representation or approximation of \"efficient solutions\" may also be of interest. This category is referred to as \"posterior articulation of preferences\", implying that the DM's involvement starts posterior to the explicit revelation of \"interesting\" solutions (see for example Karasakal and Köksalan, 2009).\n\nWhen the mathematical programming models contain integer variables, the design problems become harder to solve. Multiobjective Combinatorial Optimization (MOCO) constitutes a special category of such problems posing substantial computational difficulty (see Ehrgott and Gandibleux, 2002, for a review).\n\nThe MCDM problem can be represented in the criterion space or the decision space. Alternatively, if different criteria are combined by a weighted linear function, it is also possible to represent the problem in the weight space. Below are the demonstrations of the criterion and weight spaces as well as some formal definitions.\n\nLet us assume that we evaluate solutions in a specific problem situation using several criteria. Let us further assume that more is better in each criterion. Then, among all possible solutions, we are ideally interested in those solutions that perform well in all considered criteria. However, it is unlikely to have a single solution that performs well in all considered criteria. Typically, some solutions perform well in some criteria and some perform well in others. Finding a way of trading off between criteria is one of the main endeavors in the MCDM literature.\n\nMathematically, the MCDM problem corresponding to the above arguments can be represented as\n\nwhere is the vector of \"k\" criterion functions (objective functions) and is the feasible set, .\n\nIf is defined explicitly (by a set of alternatives), the resulting problem is called a multiple-criteria evaluation problem.\n\nIf is defined implicitly (by a set of constraints), the resulting problem is called a multiple-criteria design problem.\n\nThe quotation marks are used to indicate that the maximization of a vector is not a well-defined mathematical operation. This corresponds to the argument that we will have to find a way to resolve the trade-off between criteria (typically based on the preferences of a decision maker) when a solution that performs well in all criteria does not exist.\n\nThe decision space corresponds to the set of possible decisions that are available to us. The criteria values will be consequences of the decisions we make. Hence, we can define a corresponding problem in the decision space. For example, in designing a product, we decide on the design parameters (decision variables) each of which affects the performance measures (criteria) with which we evaluate our product.\n\nMathematically, a multiple-criteria design problem can be represented in the decision space as follows:\n\nwhere is the feasible set and is the decision variable vector of size n.\n\nA well-developed special case is obtained when is a polyhedron defined by linear inequalities and equalities. If all the objective functions are linear in terms of the decision variables, this variation leads to multiple objective linear programming (MOLP), an important subclass of MCDM problems.\n\nThere are several definitions that are central in MCDM. Two closely related definitions are those of nondominance (defined based on the criterion space representation) and efficiency (defined based on the decision variable representation).\n\n\"Definition 1.\" is nondominated if there does not exist another such that and .\n\nRoughly speaking, a solution is nondominated so long as it is not inferior to any other available solution in all the considered criteria.\n\n\"Definition 2.\" is efficient if there does not exist another such that and .\n\nIf an MCDM problem represents a decision situation well, then the most preferred solution of a DM has to be an efficient solution in the decision space, and its image is a nondominated point in the criterion space. Following definitions are also important.\n\n\"Definition 3.\" is weakly nondominated if there does not exist another such that .\n\n\"Definition 4.\" is weakly efficient if there does not exist another such that .\n\nWeakly nondominated points include all nondominated points and some special dominated points. The importance of these special dominated points comes from the fact that they commonly appear in practice and special care is necessary to distinguish them from nondominated points. If, for example, we maximize a single objective, we may end up with a weakly nondominated point that is dominated. The dominated points of the weakly nondominated set are located either on vertical or horizontal planes (hyperplanes) in the criterion space.\n\n\"Ideal point\": (in criterion space) represents the best (the maximum for maximization problems and the minimum for minimization problems) of each objective function and typically corresponds to an infeasible solution.\n\n\"Nadir point\": (in criterion space) represents the worst (the minimum for maximization problems and the maximum for minimization problems) of each objective function among the points in the nondominated set and is typically a dominated point.\n\nThe ideal point and the nadir point are useful to the DM to get the \"feel\" of the range of solutions (although it is not straightforward to find the nadir point for design problems having more than two criteria).\n\nThe following two-variable MOLP problem in the decision variable space will help demonstrate some of the key concepts graphically.\n\nIn Figure 1, the extreme points \"e\" and \"b\" maximize the first and second objectives, respectively. The red boundary between those two extreme points represents the efficient set. It can be seen from the figure that, for any feasible solution outside the efficient set, it is possible to improve both objectives by some points on the efficient set. Conversely, for any point on the efficient set, it is not possible to improve both objectives by moving to any other feasible solution. At these solutions, one has to sacrifice from one of the objectives in order to improve the other objective.\n\nDue to its simplicity, the above problem can be represented in criterion space by replacing the with the as follows:\n\nWe present the criterion space graphically in Figure 2. It is easier to detect the nondominated points (corresponding to efficient solutions in the decision space) in the criterion space. The north-east region of the feasible space constitutes the set of nondominated points (for maximization problems).\n\nThere are several ways to generate nondominated solutions. We will discuss two of these. The first approach can generate a special class of nondominated solutions whereas the second approach can generate any nondominated solution.\n\n\nIf we combine the multiple criteria into a single criterion by multiplying each criterion with a positive weight and summing up the weighted criteria, then the solution to the resulting single criterion problem is a special efficient solution. These special efficient solutions appear at corner points of the set of available solutions. Efficient solutions that are not at corner points have special characteristics and this method is not capable of finding such points. Mathematically, we can represent this situation as\n\nBy varying the weights, weighted sums can be used for generating efficient extreme point solutions for design problems, and supported (convex nondominated) points for evaluation problems.\n\n\nAchievement scalarizing functions also combine multiple criteria into a single criterion by weighting them in a very special way. They create rectangular contours going away from a reference point towards the available efficient solutions. This special structure empower achievement scalarizing functions to reach any efficient solution. This is a powerful property that makes these functions very useful for MCDM problems.\n\nMathematically, we can represent the corresponding problem as\n\nThe achievement scalarizing function can be used to project any point (feasible or infeasible) on the efficient frontier. Any point (supported or not) can be reached. The second term in the objective function is required to avoid generating inefficient solutions. Figure 3 demonstrates how a feasible point, , and an infeasible point, , are projected onto the nondominated points, and , respectively, along the direction using an achievement scalarizing function. The dashed and solid contours correspond to the objective function contours with and without the second term of the objective function, respectively.\n\nDifferent schools of thought have developed for solving MCDM problems (both of the design and evaluation type). For a bibliometric study showing their development over time, see Bragge, Korhonen, H. Wallenius and J. Wallenius [2010].\n\nMultiple objective mathematical programming school\n\n(1) \"Vector maximization\": The purpose of vector maximization is to approximate the nondominated set; originally developed for Multiple Objective Linear Programming problems (Evans and Steuer, 1973; Yu and Zeleny, 1975).\n\n(2) \"Interactive programming\": Phases of computation alternate with phases of decision-making (Benayoun et al., 1971; Geoffrion, Dyer and Feinberg, 1972; Zionts and Wallenius, 1976; Korhonen and Wallenius, 1988). No explicit knowledge of the DM's value function is assumed.\n\nGoal programming school\n\nThe purpose is to set apriori target values for goals, and to minimize weighted deviations from these goals. Both importance weights as well as lexicographic pre-emptive weights have been used (Charnes and Cooper, 1961).\n\nFuzzy-set theorists\n\nFuzzy sets were introduced by Zadeh (1965) as an extension of the classical notion of sets. This idea is used in many MCDM algorithms to model and solve fuzzy problems.\n\nMulti-attribute utility theorists\n\nMulti-attribute utility or value functions are elicited and used to identify the most preferred alternative or to rank order the alternatives. Elaborate interview techniques, which exist for eliciting linear additive utility functions and multiplicative nonlinear utility functions, are used (Keeney and Raiffa, 1976).\n\nFrench school\n\nThe French school focuses on decision aiding, in particular the ELECTRE family of outranking methods that originated in France during the mid-1960s. The method was first proposed by Bernard Roy (Roy, 1968).\n\nEvolutionary multiobjective optimization school (EMO)\n\nEMO algorithms start with an initial population, and update it by using processes designed to mimic natural survival-of-the-fittest principles and genetic variation operators to improve the average population from one generation to the next. The goal is to converge to a population of solutions which represent the nondominated set (Schaffer, 1984; Srinivas and Deb, 1994). More recently, there are efforts to incorporate preference information into the solution process of EMO algorithms (see Deb and Köksalan, 2010).\n\nAnalytic hierarchy process (AHP)\n\nThe AHP first decomposes the decision problem into a hierarchy of subproblems. Then the decision-maker evaluates the relative importance of its various elements by pairwise comparisons. The AHP converts these evaluations to numerical values (weights or priorities), which are used to calculate a score for each alternative (Saaty, 1980). A consistency index measures the extent to which the decision-maker has been consistent in her responses. AHP is one of the more controversial techniques listed here, with some researchers in the MCDA community believing it to be flawed. The underlying mathematics is also more complicated, though it has gained some popularity as a result of commercially available software.\n\nSeveral papers reviewed the application of MCDM techniques in various disciplines such as fuzzy MCDM, classic MCDM, sustainable and renewable energy, VIKOR technique, transportation systems, service quality, TOPSIS method, energy management problems, e-learning, tourism and hospitality, SWARA and WASPAS methods.\n\nThe following MCDM methods are available, many of which are implemented by specialized decision-making software:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34248726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34248726", "title": "Non-fatal offences against the person in English law", "text": "Non-fatal offences against the person in English law\n\nNon-fatal offences against the person, under English law, are generally taken to mean offences which take the form of an attack directed at another person, that do not result in the death of any person. Such offences where death occurs are considered homicide, whilst sexual offences are generally considered separately, since they differ substantially from other offences against the person in theoretical basis and composition. Non-fatal offences against the person mainly derive from the Offences against the Person Act 1861, although no definition of assault or battery is given there.\n\nOffences against the person include minor forms of battery (any unlawful touching of another person); its complimentary offence, assault (causing the apprehension of a battery, even when one has not yet occurred); and various more serious offences which are based on assault and battery (together called \"common assault\"). This includes assault occasioning actual bodily harm, where the victim suffers injuries such as bruising or skin abrasions (the converse being an injury that is \"transient and trifling\"); wounding (a piercing of all layers of the skin); and causing grievous bodily harm (injuries more serious than in actual bodily harm, for example broken bones). The latter two offences may be committed \"with intent\", meaning there is an additional \"mens rea\" component that makes the defendant more culpable for their actions. Whilst recklessness is sufficient for most offences against the person – that the defendant foresaw the risk of the proscribed injury occurring without necessarily intending it to happen – this is insufficient for crimes of intent.\n\nCommon to all crimes against the person is the infringement of the right to bodily integrity. It extends to the touching of clothing, for example, and where no physical harm actually results. However, if all touchings were criminalised, this would interfere with the right to liberty. It is the very touching, and not the harm, that is the violation of principle. This is related to the right to privacy under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The central statute on this topic is Offences against the Person Act 1861, which brought together a multitude of difference offences, with much overlap and inconsistent terminology. These include both the actual infliction and the threat of violence. Although criticised, the Act has not been replaced.\n\nIn the context of the law of attempts, the Crown Prosecution Service advises that \"where the evidence demonstrates that the suspect intended to cause an injury that is substantially more serious than that (if any) which was in fact caused, prosecutors should consider the circumstances of the case as a whole as well as the relevant sentencing guideline to determine the appropriate charge.\" \n\nA distinction is drawn between the offence of assault and that of battery. Assault is the \"apprehension\" of the possibility of immediate unlawful violence, and battery that of the \"infliction\" of such violence. Several proposals, including one from the Criminal Law Revision Committee in 1980 have proposed merging the offences. However, the distinction was confirmed in \"DPP v Little\" in 1992. There, the conflation of assault and battery was criticised as duplicitous. If D throws a punch at V, who dodges, this is likely to be an assault but not a battery; if V is attacked from behind, this may constitute a battery without an assault. Actions which constitute ordinary daily life are not considered assault or battery, for example, jostling on a crowded train. The term \"common assault\" is used to refer to either a technical assault or a battery.\n\nAssault is a summary offence in England and Wales, with the case heard only at a Magistrates' Court. Although \"R v Little\" considered assault a statutory offence, none of the statutes referred to contain any definition of assault. The \"actus reus\", endorsed in \"R v Ireland\", is any act by D that causes V to apprehend immediate and unlawful personal violence. The term \"force\" rather than \"violence\" is used by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). As a definition, this has proven stable, but its interpretation has varied. The force must be unlawful – outside the realm of defensive or preventative force, for example. Consent of the victim may be enough to prevent the commission of a crime. There is to debate as to whether lack of consent is an element of the \"actus reus\", making it inherent to the commission of a crime, or whether consent is a defence. Andrew Simester and Bob Sullivan argue that the former is more correct, since lack on consent is vital to the crime; since the act may not constitute a harm even if enacted. The disregard for the victim's autonomy and privacy is the actionable part of the offence. The victim need not be frightened by the apprehension of violence, merely not want the person concerned to do it.\n\nAssault requires a positive act, not an omission. Mere lawful presence in a location is not enough to satisfy the conduct requirement; illegal trespass, however, is sufficient. John Cyril Smith has suggested that wilfully refusing to retract an inadvertent act that causes the victim to apprehend violence may constitute an assault by omission. It is arguable that there was once a rule that \"mere words\" could not constitute an assault, but the case of \"R v Ireland\" confirmed that even silent phone calls would be grounds for the charge of assault. \"R. v Constanza\" added threatening letters to this category.\n\nAlthough assault involves a threat of an immediate battery, the perpetrator need not actually intend to carry out that battery. It is enough that he, intentionally or recklessly, caused the victim to apprehend such an occurrence. The term \"immediate\" has also been used in different ways. Following \"Ireland\", it seems likely that even where the victim knew the defendant was some distance away, this may be sufficient. As Lord Steyn said there, \"what, if not the possibility of imminent personal violence, was the victim terrified about?\". This would widen the crime of assault considerably. It is perfectly conceivable that the victim was fearful, but did not believe an attack was imminent. That she actually apprehended \"immediate violence\", rather than merely \"immediately apprehended\", is doubtful. In \"Constanza\", it was sufficient for the prosecution to show that the victim feared an attack in the future, which may have been imminent. It also suggested that the anticipated harm could be psychological rather than physical.\n\n\"Blake v Barnard\" established a rule that conditional threats could not amount to an assault. However, the court's reliance on \"Tuberville v Savage\" was tenuous at best. Such threats would normally be considered assault.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" requirement is that the defendant must have intend to, or recklessly, cause the victim to fear the possibility of immediate unlawful violence. There is no authority that suggests that \"intend\" or \"recklessly\" ought to mean something from their normal meanings. \"Cunningham recklessness\" – that the defendant himself foresaw the risk of harm – is applied. Assault is a crime of \"basic intent\" for the purposes of the Majewski test concerning voluntary intoxication.\n\nThe defendant commits a battery if they intentionally or recklessly apply unlawful force to another, without their consent. It is subject to the same \"everyday life\" exception common to assault. Cases have included kissing, spitting and cutting someone's hair without their consent. This also includes contact with the victim's clothing, a rule dating back to 1845 in \"R v Day\". It is not necessary that the victim feels the touching.\n\nThe required causation may be quite oblique. As well as weaponry held in the hand, weaponry thrown is included, as is causing people to touch each other by creating a sense of panic. The general law on liability for omissions also applies to batteries, for example those of the continuing act (as in \"Fagan v MPC\") and of a duty of care. However, in \"R v Ireland\" the court ruled out psychological injury by means of a telephone as a form of battery, although it was not an important point in the case as other charges were brought. Poisoning is not a battery where there is no accompanying violence.\n\nThe case of \"R v Brown\" established a further requirement: hostility. This is not easily called an \"actus reus\" nor \"mens rea\" requirement. It was not clear what role it played in that case, but could apply to other cases as a way of clarifying the \"everyday behaviour\" guidance. It has been strongly criticised by Lord Goff and other judicial and academic writers. It could apply to future cases where the bodily harm was unintended or unforeseen.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" requirement for battery is similar to assault. It is the intention to apply unlawful force to another, or be reckless as to whether such force is applied. It employs \"Cunningham recklessness\" – that the defendant must have foreseen the risk of the infliction of unlawful force upon V. In theory, at least, combining the \"mens rea\" of battery with the \"actus reus\" of assault, or vice versa, is not a crime. The Majewski test is applied to cases of voluntary intoxication, as battery is also a crime of \"basic intent\" in this scenario.\n\nAssault occasioning actual bodily harm carries a maximum sentence of 5 years under section 47 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. It is triable either way. Both assault (fear of violence) and battery (infliction of violence) are included, although it is possible to consider section 47 as creating two offences – one involving an assault, and one a battery. \"Occasioning\" is generally taken to mean \"causing\" although John Gardner has argued that it is wider than that. In discussing causation, 'frightened' people are not expected to act entirely rationally; instead, a relevant test is that of \"R v Roberts\". There, any conduct of the victim short of \"daft\" could be considered caused by the defendant's actions. Only the seriousness of the injury separates an assault from an assault occasioning actual bodily harm.\n\nThe concept of \"actual bodily harm\" is wide. Almost all injuries are included – for example, bruising or skin abrasions. Injuries are not included if they are \"transient or trifling\", but this did not cover even momentary unconsciousness. The wide range of injuries give prosecutors considerable discretion about which charge to bring against a defendant. Psychological injury is included, so long as it forms a recognised medical condition. Mere fright or anxiety is insufficient for actual bodily harm. It is limited only by the need for an actual assault or battery to have taken place.\n\nThere is no separate \"mens rea\" element from the assault or battery, making this a crime of constructive liability. This has been defended by John Gardner, a proponent of the moral threshold theory. However, this is opposed by Simester and Sullivan.\n\nSection 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 criminalises \"whosoever shall unlawfully and maliciously wound or inflict any grievous bodily harm upon any other person, either with or without any weapon or instrument\". The maximum penalty, five years, is the same as that for actual bodily harm, but a section 20 offence is considered more serious by the courts and the Crown Prosecution Service. A judge is free on the facts of the case to allow a jury find a defendant guilty of assault occasioning actual bodily harm where a defendant is charged with a section 20 offence.\n\nThe \"actus reus\" is the wound or infliction of grievous bodily harm (GBH). A \"wound\" is something that breaks all layers of the skin, and must have an external component – internal bleeding, however serious, is not a wound. Serious wounds would also fall under grievous bodily harm, but some qualifying wounds (a pin prick, for example) are very minor. Some wounds would therefore not qualify as grievous bodily harm.\n\nThe phrase \"really serious harm\" was used to describe grievous bodily harm in \"R v Metheram\". The case of \"R v Grundy\" confirmed that injuries should be taken in their totality; that many small injuries may form a serious harm. \"R v Bollom\" confirmed the \"Grundy\" approach, and also showed that grievous bodily harm against a child was likely to require less bodily harm than that against an adult. \"R v Burstow\" extended \"bodily harm\" to include psychological trauma if it formed a recognised serious mental condition. Simester \"et al\" said that this could have wide-reaching consequences, but it is unlikely to be taken to include commonplace occurrences (relationship breakups, verbal cruelty, broken promises) – in \"Burstow\", the conduct included a prolonged and intense campaign of harassment.\n\nFor a long time, \"R v Clarence\" was taken as an authority on the meaning of \"inflict\", which the court took to mean \"an assault or battery of which a wound or grievous bodily harm is the manifest immediate and obvious result\". This narrow definition was extended in \"R v Martin\" and \"R v Halliday\" to include, for example, injuries sustained during an attempt of the victim to flee. An injury is said to be \"inflicted\" if it is the result of an impact or percussion set in motion by the defendant; the injury must relate directly to the impact or percussion, but the impact or percussion may be an indirect effect of the defendant's actions. \"R v Burstow\" established that \"inflict\" was a near synonym of cause: in Lord Hope's view, they were synonymous, except that the outcome of the former must be unpleasant. This was applied in \"R v Dica\" and \"R v Konzani\", two cases of knowingly risking passing on HIV without explicit consent.\n\nThe \"mens rea\" element is that of \"malice\", which means either intention or recklessness. \"Cunningham recklessness\" is applied. However, for the purposes of recklessness, foresight of even minor harm is sufficient – it does not require foresight of serious harm. This has been criticised since it breaks the correspondence principle, that the \"mens rea\" should match the \"actus reus\" of an offence.\n\nThe crime of wounding with intent is created by section 18 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861. It reads, since amended, as:\n\"Whosoever shall unlawfully and maliciously by any means whatsoever wound or cause any grievous bodily harm to any person... with intent... to do some... grievous bodily harm to any person, or with intent to resist or prevent the lawful apprehension or detainer of any person...\". This creates four forms of the offence: unlawfully and maliciously wounding, with intent to either do grievous bodily harm (1) or resist arrest (2); and unlawfully and maliciously causing grievous bodily harm, with intent to either do grievous bodily harm (3) or resist arrest (4). Thus forms (1) and (3) differ from section 20 offences mainly in that there is a specific intention to cause serious harm rather than some harm, and they are therefore the more serious charges. On an indictment under section 18, the jury is open to convict under section 20 or section 47 if properly directed.\n\n\"Wounding\" and \"causing grievous bodily harm\" are defined in the same way as they are in the crime of maliciously wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm. Grievous bodily harm includes serious psychological trauma and serious infection; however, these are less controversial here because of the inclusion of intent. Intent narrows the crime considerably, and the term \"inflict\" is not used. In form (3), intent can be simply decided in the case of a direct attack, or \"virtual certainty\", with knowledge of the virtual certainty – the \"Woollin\" principle. In form (1), where an injury does not amount to grievous bodily harm, intent to cause grievous bodily harm (in the advancement of a different cause) must be shown. Practically, the \"virtual certainty\" clause cannot come into force, since grievous bodily harm was not actually caused, by definition. In forms (2) and (4), the concept of \"malice\" has a role to play that it does not in (1) and (3). The defendant must foresee the risk of wounding or grievous bodily harm, where the core intent is to resist arrest. The defendant cannot be reckless to the resisting of arrest, it must be an intention. Concerning the requirement to resist a \"lawful\" arrest, the defendant only lacks the required \"mens rea\" if he believes in facts which, if true, would make the arrest unlawful; not just that he believes the facts as they are make the arrest illegal – a mistake of fact suffices, a mistake of law does not.\n\nThere also exist alternative forms of aggravated assault in English law, for example: assault or battery with intent to resist arrest (as above, the arrest must be lawful); and assault on, resistance to, and obstruction of constables. Under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, it is also possible to commit a racially aggravated assault. This is where the commission of the assault in combination to hostility towards the victim, based on their race or believed race, or association with a race. \"Race\" includes skin colour, nationality, citizenship, and ethnic or national origins. Administering poison, either contrary to section 23 or 24 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861, is also an offence; as is false imprisonment – including unlawful arrest, kidnap and hostage situations. Legislation aimed at the possession or use of firearms may also come into this category, as may bomb hoaxes.\n\nThere are also offences of aggravated assault, created under the Offences against the Person Act 1861, that now go almost completely unused: for example, assaulting or obstructing a clergyman in the discharge of his duties, and assaulting a magistrate or other person in the exercise of his duties concerning the preservation of a vessel in distress or a wreck.\n\nAn assault is not caused if a defendant threatens to shoot the victim, but the victim is aware that the gun is not loaded or fake. However, it would be the \"actus reus\" of an assault if the victim wrongly believes the gun is, or may be, loaded. Since assault is a summary offence, no prosecutions take place for attempted assault. However, it is possible to commit attempts of aggravated forms of assault.\n\n"}
{"id": "37761204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37761204", "title": "Petro-sexual politics", "text": "Petro-sexual politics\n\nPetro-sexual politics is a lens used to better understand the relationships between petroleum and gender violence and the role colonial powers possess. The underlying theme of petro-sexual politics is that gender violence is part of a larger political economy of violence. Petro-sexual politics can yield new methods of theorizing global politics, particularly as explained here for the Nigerian case of the \"natural resource curse\". \nTypically petro-violence is lumped together with the term ethnic conflict. These conflicts have deep colonial roots driving them. These colonial powers label conflicts with terms such as \"terrorist activity\" or \"gang violence\" in order to retain colonial power and maintain global hierarchies and inequality within a region. As colonial powers control local politics, occurrences of domestic violence and other forms of gender violence can be observed. A Western view of domestic violence skews the ability of the population to see that this domestic violence is not simply occurring at the personal level. \nAccording to Turcotte, there is a common ground between petroleum production and gender-sexual violence. These factors have been used as machines of war and the framework for nation building. Justification of sexual violence in times of war allows for the mutual existence of the state and petroleum industry. The state's growth is fueled solely by the growth of the petroleum industry in the region, thus leading to the existence of petro-sexual politics.\n\nTransnational and African feminism argues that the nation-state relies upon capitalist and colonial violence. The production of petroleum in the Niger Delta is a direct result of colonial endeavors. This colonization has directly imposed social arrangements and altered the pre-colonial population, creating a new population under colonial-imperial regulation. According to Turcotte, gender violence, a precursor to colonization, was vital to colonization itself. The United Kingdom, controlling oil production in the area, was able to impose imperial rule onto the colony. Once Nigeria gained its independence in 1960, colonial ideals were still held in place.\nWhile the Nigerian Civil War (also known as the Biafran War) is often thought of as a civil war, the colonial roots that caused much of the tension leading to the conflict cannot be ignored. Scholars have suggested that this conflict illustrates the link between gender violence and petroleum. Emecheta depicts a war in which sexual violence was used as a tactic of regulation. These regulations shared a direct correlation to the protection of local oil investments. Through this example, the Nigerian Civil War can be seen as a moment when sexual violence was ultimately utilized to protect the oil industry and is a prime example of petro-sexual political actions.\n\nThe Niger Delta was considered a terrorist region in 2000 by the United States State Department. Following this declaration, US military funding to the region greatly increased to protect off-shore extraction and production of oil. This action has raised questions of whether or not the U.S. intended to eradicate the terrorist threats or simply protect its oil investments. Turcotte suggests that this violence in the Niger Delta region is brought about by the promotion of capitalist democracy through interstate systems.\nIn the 1990s, the discourse around conflict in the Delta increasing focus on male youth groups activity against the industry as \"militant attacks\"; by 2000, these men were translated into terrorists by the interstate system. The history of protests in Nigeria suggests that petro-protest developed from strategies of community justice within women's organizations often supported by male youth groups.\n\nAccording to Watts, oil has seven properties that aid in the explanation as to why violence is often found in areas of petroleum extraction.\nIn the instance of the Niger Delta, constant exploitation from international oil companies distorted the pre-colonial views of the region. This distortion has led to violence in the region. Over 2,000 deaths have occurred as a direct result of this episode.\n\n\"Blood may be thicker than water, but oil is thicker than both.\" —Perry Anderson, \"Scurrying toward Bethlehem\" \n\nPrior to colonial institutions, females headed the Nigerian villages. Nigerian women were leaders of the palm oil industry that dominated the region prior to the conversion to petroleum. Due to the fact that these women were seen as reproducers and heads of the family, if instance of abuse were seen, the women could threaten to leave. However, once petroleum was taken as the region's main resource, the women rapidly lost this power.\nHanna exemplifies different types of protests commonly utilized by Nigerian women: dance, song and nakedness.\n\n\"Women's protests consist of storming en masse into the compounds of offending men and holding a man 'hostage' by dancing, singing and threatening their nakedness on him.\"\nWomen's protest during the colonial era has been numerous given their social status prior to colonization. Even with these protests, violence against women persisted as global oil initiatives grew in the region. The increasing oil economy of the Delta not only affected the physical well-being of the women in the area, but also affected their livelihoods. Local fishing industries and food staples have all been compromised due to oil-related pollution.\n\nAs instances of female-led non-violent protests increase, so does militant-based political activism among the male populace. The variance in protest from violent and non-violent actions has called the legitimacy of the protests into question. Ultimately, imperial labeling of these protests as \"terrorist activities\" perpetuates the existence of the oil companies and regional violence that accompanies the oil industry's presence.\n\nIt seems that these non-violent protests led by community women's organizations have been the most successful in bringing about awareness of the issue to the UN and other grass-roots organizations. Through continued use of non-violent protests, the women of the region have been able to establish credibility to their claims that had been previously disregarded as a result of violence and counter-violence in the area.\n\nOne source of violent protest to the petro-sexual politics that currently hold the Niger Delta under imperial power lies with the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND). The militant group is driven to violent protests by pollution, marginalization and political repression.\n\nAs previously noted, the violence in the region between militant groups such as MEND and the government-controlled military can be attributed to economic inequality, the legacy of colonialism, and the lack of a democratic government. Courson also notes that the gap in wealth in the Niger Delta has grown significantly since foreign oil companies have impacted the region. MEND emerged onto the resistance scene late in 2005 after attacking two Shell pipelines. From the beginning, MEND attempted to make its intentions clear; it did not want to combat the people of the region or the oil companies, but the oppressive economy that held the people of the Delta in poverty. To gain media attention, MEND took two western nationals hostage. However, the retaliation by the government was not what the MEND resistance had hoped. An increase in military presence led to human rights abuse, rape, and the destruction of communities, all in the name of fighting MEND, which has earned the title \"terrorist\" by the Nigerian government. However, Bushra states that labeling resistance efforts as terrorist acts does not look far enough into the reasons why groups such as MEND have been forced to take up arms. Bushra continues in saying that MEND's response was necessary due to the fact that previous peace negotiations had failed.\n\nThroughout this conflict, MEND has called for international intervention and refutes the terrorist tags that they have been labeled with, saying they fight for survival and equality. Individuals such as Brusha and Courson believe that military retaliation is not the answer to the problems that petro-sexual politics have imposed on the region. Further violence will lead to additional implications facing the marginalized women and youth that have been objectified as vessels of war in this conflict.\n"}
{"id": "30175509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30175509", "title": "PlayStation mentality", "text": "PlayStation mentality\n\nPlayStation mentality refers to the disassociation between combatants and the consequences of their actions, as a result of the use of weapon interfaces which resemble video games. The effect is named after the PlayStation games console, and is commonly cited in discussions of the problems of drone warfare, such as that conducted by the CIA in the Pakistan tribal areas, typically using predator drones.\n\n\nhttp://www.channel4.com/news/cia-drone-strikes-a-legal-war\n"}
{"id": "9468719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9468719", "title": "Positive illusions", "text": "Positive illusions\n\nPositive illusions are unrealistically favorable attitudes that people have towards themselves or to people that are close to them. Positive illusions are a form of self-deception or self-enhancement that feel good, maintain self-esteem or stave off discomfort, at least in the short term. There are three broad kinds: inflated assessment of one's own abilities, unrealistic optimism about the future, and an illusion of control. The term \"positive illusions\" originates in a 1988 paper by Taylor and Brown. \"Taylor and Brown's (1988) model of mental health maintains that certain positive illusions are highly prevalent in normal thought and predictive of criteria traditionally associated with mental health.\"\n\nThere are controversies about the extent to which people reliably demonstrate positive illusions, and also about whether these illusions are beneficial to the people who have them.\n\nIn the above-average effect, people regard themselves more positively than they regard others and less negatively than others regard them. Moreover, positive attributes are judged to be more descriptive of themselves than of an average person, whereas negative ones are judged to be less descriptive of themselves than of an average person. Despite the fact that it is statistically impossible for most people to be superior to their peers, rather than being equally aware of ones strengths and weaknesses, people are more aware of their strengths and not very aware of their weaknesses. This effect has been widely recognized across traits and abilities including the realm of driving ability, parenting, leadership ability, teaching ability, ethics, and health. This effect is also evident in memory; most people also tend to perceive their ability to remember as better than it actually is.\n\nThe illusion of control is an exaggerated assessment of the individual's personal control over environmental circumstances such as the roll of dice or flip of coin.\n\nOptimism bias is a tendency for people to overestimate their likelihood of experiencing a wide variety of pleasant events, such as enjoying their first job or having a gifted child, and somewhat underestimate their risk of succumbing to negative events, such as getting divorced or falling victim to a chronic disease. This illusory nature of optimism is also evident in peoples' under-estimation of the time taken for a variety of tasks.\n\nLike many forms of human perception, self-perception is prone to illusion. Positive illusions have been commonly understood as one of the apparent effects of self-enhancement, a desire to maximize the positivity of one's self-views and a function of boosting self-esteem. It might be due to the desire to see oneself more favorably relative to one's peers. These kinds of self-serving attributions seemed to be displayed by positive self-viewers only. In fact, the negative-viewers were found to display the opposite pattern. Research suggests that there may be modest genetic contributions to the ability to develop positive illusions. Early environment also plays an important role: people are more able to develop these positive beliefs in nurturing environments than in harsh ones.\n\nAlternative explanations involve dimensions like the easiness and commonness of the tasks. In addition, tasks that shifted attention from the self to the comparative target would stop people overly optimising.\n\nThe cultural prevalence also has a significant role in positive illusions. Although it is easy to document positive illusions in individualistic Western cultures, people in collectivist East Asian cultures are much less likely to self-enhance and, indeed, are often self-effacing instead.\n\nMost studies find that people tend to have inflated views of themselves. The research indicates that the relationship between people's self-evaluations and objective assessments is relatively weak. One explanation for this is that most people only have mild positive illusions.\n\nHowever, according to recent studies there is evidence that there are significant individual differences between the strength of positive illusions people have. Therefore, some people may have extremely inflated self-views, some mild and some very little and when examined across a population this effect appears weak.\n\nPositive illusions can have advantages and disadvantages for the individual, and there is a controversy over whether they are evolutionarily adaptive. The illusions may have direct health benefits by helping the person cope with stress, or by promoting work towards success. On the other hand, unrealistically positive expectations may prevent people from taking sensible preventative action for medical risks. Recent research in fact provides evidence that people who have positive illusions may have both short term benefits and long term costs. Specifically, self-enhancement is not correlated with academic success or graduation rates in college.\n\nTaylor and Brown's Social Psychological Model of mental health has assumed that positive beliefs would be tied to psychological well-being, and that positive self-evaluations, even unrealistic, would promote good mental health. The reference to well-being here means the ability to feel good about oneself, to be creative and/or productive in one's work, to form satisfying relationships with other people and to effectively combat stress when necessary. Positive illusions are particularly useful for helping people to get through major stressful events or traumas, such as life-threatening illnesses or serious accidents. People who are able to develop or maintain their positive beliefs in the face of these potential setbacks tend to cope more successfully with them, and show less psychological distress than those less able. For example, psychological research shows that cancer survivors often report a higher quality of life than people who have never had cancer at all. This could be physiologically protective because they have been able to use the traumatic experience to evoke an increased sense of meaning and purpose. This relates to the concept of psychological resilience or an individual's ability to cope with challenges and stress. Self-enhancing was found to be correlated with resilience in the face of the 9/11 tragedy among participants either in or near the towers.\n\nPeople also hold positive illusions because such beliefs often enhance their productivity and persistence with tasks on which they might otherwise give up. When people believe they can achieve a difficult goal, this expectation often creates a sense of energy and excitement, resulting in more progress than would otherwise have been the case.\n\nPositive illusions can be argued to be adaptive because they enable people to feel hopeful in the face of uncontrollable risks.\n\nIn addition, there seems to be a relationship between illusions and positive mood. Studies have found that the direction of this relationship is that positive illusions cause positive mood states.\n\nHowever, more recent findings found that all forms of illusion, positive or not, were associated with more depressive symptoms and various other studies reject the link between positive illusions and mental health, well-being or life satisfaction, maintaining that accurate perception of reality is compatible with happiness.\n\nWhen studying the link between self-esteem and positive illusions, identified a group which possessed high self-esteem without positive illusions, and that these individuals weren't depressed, neurotic, psychotic, maladjusted nor personality disordered, thus concluding that positive illusions aren't necessary for high self-esteem. Compared to the group with positive illusions and high self-esteem, the nonillusional group with high self-esteem was higher on self-criticism and personality integration and lower on psychoticism.\n\nA meta-analysis of 118 studies including 7013 subjects found that slightly more studies supported the idea of depressive realism, but these studies were poorer in quality, used non-clinical samples, were more readily generalized, used self-reports instead of interviews and used attentional bias or judgment of contingency as a method of measuring depressive realism, as methods such as recall of feedback and evaluation of performance showed results counter to depressive realism.\n\nAnother recent meta-analysis supports Taylor and Browns central claim. Its results indicate that different forms of self-enhancement are positively linked to personal adjustment (high subjective well-being and low depressiveness). Self-enhancement was not only linked to self-ratings of personal adjustment, but also to adjustment ratings made by informants (including clinical experts). Furthermore, self-enhancement was also a longitudinal predictor of personal adjustment. \n\nApart from having better psychological adjustment with more active coping, the ability to develop and sustain positive beliefs in the face of setbacks has its health benefits. Research with men who had the HIV virus, or already diagnosed with AIDS has shown that those who hold unrealistically positive assessments of their abilities to control their health conditions take longer to develop symptoms, experience a slower course of illness, as well as other positive cognitive outcomes, such as acceptance of the loss.\n\nThere are several potential risks that may arise if people hold positive illusions about their personal qualities and likely outcomes. First of all, they might set themselves up for unpleasant surprises for which they are ill-prepared when their overly optimistic beliefs are disconfirmed. They may also have to tackle the consequences thereafter. However, research suggests that, for the most part, these adverse outcomes do not occur. People's beliefs are more realistic at times when realism serves them particularly well: for example, when initially making plans; when accountability is likely or following negative feedback from the environment. Following a setback or failure, all is still not lost, as people's overly positive beliefs may be used again in a new undertaking.\n\nA second risk is that people who hold positive illusions will set goals, or undertake courses of actions which are more likely to produce failure than success. This concern appears to be largely without basis. Research shows that when people are deliberating future courses of actions for themselves, such as whether to take a particular job or go to graduate school, their perceptions are fairly realistic, but they can become overly optimistic when they turn to implementing their plans. Although there is no guarantee that one's realistic prediction would turn out to be accurate, the shift from realism to optimism may provide the fuel needed to bring potentially difficult tasks from conception to fruition.\n\nA third risk is that positive self-perceptions may have social costs. A specific source of evidence of the self-serving pattern in ability assessment examined the use of idiosyncratic definitions of traits and abilities. The authors suggested that the social costs occur when one's definition of ability is perceived to be the only one relevant to achievement outcomes. In other words, wherever people fail to recognise when other plausible definitions of ability are relevant for success, estimates of their future well-being will be overstated.\n\nA fourth risk is that it may be harmful to realize that one's actual competence does not match up to their illusions. This can be harmful to the ego and result in actually performing worse in situations such as college.\n\nAlthough positive illusions may have short-term benefits, they come with long-term costs. Positive illusions have been linked with decreasing levels of self-esteem and well-being, as well as narcissism and lower academic achievement among students.\n\nAlthough more academic attention has focused on positive illusions, there are systematic negative illusions that are revealed under slightly different circumstances. For example, while college students rate themselves as more likely than average to live to 70, they believe they are less likely than average to live to 100. People regard themselves as above average on easy tasks such as riding a bicycle but below average on difficult tasks like riding a unicycle. In 2007 Moore named the latter effect the \"worse-than-average effect\". In general, people overestimate their relative standing when their absolute standing is high and underestimate it when their absolute standing is low.\n\nDepressive realism suggests that depressed people actually have a more realistic view of themselves and the world than mentally healthy people. The nature of depression seems to have its role in diminishing positive illusions. For example, individuals who are low in self-esteem, slightly depressed, or both, are more balanced in self-perceptions. Likewise, these mildly depressed individuals are found to be less vulnerable to overestimations of (their) control over events and to assess future circumstances in biased fashion.\n\nHowever, these findings may not be because depressed people have less illusions than nondepressed. Studies such as show that depressed people believe they have no control in situations where they actually do, so their perspection is not more accurate overall. It might also be that the pessimistic bias of depressives results in \"depressive realism\" when, for example, measuring estimation of control when there is none, as proposed by . Also, and found that when replicating Alloy and Abramson's findings the overestimation of control in nondepressed people only showed up when the interval was long enough, implying that this is because they take more aspects of a situation into account than their depressed counterparts.\n\nTwo hypotheses have been stated in the literature with regard to avoiding the drawbacks of positive illusions: firstly by minimising the illusions in order to take the full advantage of the benefits, and secondly through making important decisions. According to Roy Baumeister, a small amount of positive distortion may be optimal. He hypothesizes that those who fall within this optimal margin of illusion may provide for the best mental health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51652572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51652572", "title": "Post-assault treatment of sexual assault victims", "text": "Post-assault treatment of sexual assault victims\n\nAfter a sexual assault or rape, victims are often subjected to scrutiny and, in some cases, mistreatment. Victims undergo medical examinations and are interviewed by police. If there is a criminal trial, victims suffer a loss of privacy and their credibility may be challenged. Victims may also become the target of slut-shaming, abuse, social stigmatization, sexual slurs and cyberbullying.\n\nVarious laws have been created with a motive to protect victims. During criminal proceedings, publication bans and rape shield laws protect victims from excessive public scrutiny. Laws may also prohibit defence lawyers from obtaining a victim's medical, psychiatric or therapeutic records. Statutory rape laws set the age of legal consent for sexual activity and prohibits perpetrators from alleging the victim consented to the activity. Victims in some jurisdictions can seek damages from police and institutions if warnings were not issued. Numerous victims' rights groups operate to improve the treatment of victims.\n\nExaminers may also collect fingernail scrapings and pluck head and pubic hairs. If the facility has the means, and the victim consents, the examiner will also take photographs of genital injuries. A 'rape kit' contains the items used by medical personnel for gathering and preserving physical evidence.\n\nMany \"rape kits\" are untested because they are never submitted to crime labs or because crime labs have insufficient resources to test all of the submitted kits. In the United States, national surveys of law enforcement agencies suggest there may be upwards of 200,000 untested rape kits.\n\nThe Survivors' Bill of Rights Act of 2016 was enacted by the United States federal government on October 7, 2016. The act gives victims the right: \n\nAs part of police investigations, victims are interviewed by police. The interview is usually recorded, a transcript may be prepared and the interview may be made available to the public. Discrepancies between the victim's statements to police and other evidence are grounds for the defence lawyer to impeach the credibility of the victim.\n\nIn investigations involving acquaintance or date rape, the electronic communications between the accused and the victim may be reviewed in order to determine if the victim consented to the sexual activity.\n\nIn \"People v. Jovanovic\", the New York appeals court determined that emails from the alleged victim should be included in evidence and that the rape shield law did not apply. The alleged victim had written about her sadomasochistic interests and experiences.\n\nIn Canada, a defense lawyer may be allowed to obtain copies of the victim's e-mails and other private documents using a legal procedure called a third-party records application.\n\nIf police believe the reported victim is making a false accusation of rape, they may interrogate that person as a suspect rather than a victim. In some cases, harsh questioning and social stigmatization has caused even actual victims of rape to recant and then be charged with making a false report.\n\nIn Canada, pursuant to sections 278.1 to 278.91 of the \"Criminal Code\" defence counsel are not allowed to obtain a victim's medical, psychiatric or therapeutic records . The prohibition was found to be constitutional by the Supreme Court of Canada even though it limited the accused ability to provide a full answer and defence; see \"R. v Mills\".\n\nAn accused may hire a private investigator to investigate and harass a victim. For example, according to the complaint in the civil lawsuit against Penn State University, Nate Parker hired a private investigator to investigate and harass an 18-year-old student. The student alleged she was raped by Parker and another student. The harassment included exposing the victim's identity by posting enlarged photos of the victim around the university campus. The lawsuit against Penn State was settled for $17,500.\n\nInstitutions may attempt to cover up sexual abuse, as seen in the Catholic Church sexual abuse cases. The movie \"Spotlight\" deals with the coverup of sexual abuse by Catholic priests.\n\nDennis Hastert allegedly promised to pay $5 million to his victim in exchange for agreeing not to discuss the sexual assaults.\n\nAuthorities may fail to investigate allegations of sexual assault because the victims are perceived to be unreliable witnesses.\n\nThe BBC One miniseries \"Three Girls\" deals with the systematic sexual abuse of young girls by a group of older Asian men in Rochdale. Authorities were slow to respond even though more than 100 referrals were made to the police and social services.\n\nHarvey Weinstein dispatched defense lawyers and publicists to undermine the credibility of his accusers.\n\nIn the United States, various legislation, government agencies, and initiatives have been created to deal with campus sexual assault. These include:\n\n\n\"The Hunting Ground\" is a critically acclaimed American documentary film about the incidence of sexual assault on college campuses in the United States. Its creators say college administrations are failing to respond adequately to claims of sexual assault, while its critics have countered that the film was based on misleading statistics and biased against the alleged perpetrator.\n\nSexual Assault in the military is more prevalent than outside of the military and it is frequently under reported. In the United States, Sexual Assault Prevention Response (SAPR) is a training program designated to educate military service members and provide support and treatment to service members and their families. Individuals are assigned to a SAPR Advocate to assist them with the different treatment options that are available to them and to educate them about their rights.\n\nThe \"Prison Rape Elimination Act\" is United States legislation enacted for the purpose of preventing sexual assaults in U.S. prisons. The legislation requires reporting and information gathering.\n\nIn the United States, laws prohibiting the publication of a victim's name have been found to be unconstitutional and struck down. In \"Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn\" , the U.S. Supreme Court ruled a Georgia statute that imposed civil liability on media for publishing a rape victim's name was unconstitutional. The Court stated: \"the First and Fourteenth Amendments command nothing less than that the States may not impose sanctions on the publication of truthful information contained in official court records open to public inspection.\" Also see \"Florida Star v. B. J. F.\", and \"State of Florida v. Globe Communications Corp.\", 648 So.2d 110 (Fla. 1994).\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Press generally does not publish the names of alleged sexual assault victims without their consent. In addition, a court order may operate to prohibit publication. Pursuant to paragraph 486.4(1)(a) of the \"Criminal Code\", the court may make an order \"directing that any information that could identify the complainant or a witness\" not be published, broadcast or transmitted for any sexual offences. The victim has the option of waiving the publication ban.\n\nIn cases where the accused is under 18 years of age, the court may impose a publication ban to protect the privacy of the offender.\n\nSeventeen-year-old Savannah Dietrich was sexually assaulted by two teenagers. The court ordered Dietrich not to discuss the case and she was threatened to be found in contempt when she published the names of the perpetrators on social media.\n\nIn Canada, the section 110 of the \"Youth Criminal Justice Act\" generally prohibits the publication of the name of the offender if the offender was under the age of 18 at the time of the offence.\nThe police, colleges and universities may be required to warn the public that a sexual assault has occurred. Women should be warned of the risk they face and have the opportunity to take any specific measures to protect themselves from future attacks.\n\nVictims of sexual assault may sue for damages if warnings are not issued. In 1998, a sexual assault victim successfully sued the Toronto police for their failure to warn her that a serial rapist was active in her neighbourhood. The complainant in the Nate Parker case sued Pennsylvania State University for violating her Title IX rights.\n\nIn the United States, the Clery Act imposes fines on colleges and universities that fail to warn students of criminal activity on or near campuses. The law is named after Jeanne Clery, a 19-year-old Lehigh University student who was raped and murdered in her campus hall of residence in 1986. In relation to the Jerry Sandusky sexual abuse scandal, U.S. federal investigators are seeking to fine Penn State University $2.4 million for failing to warn of threats to the campus.\n\nTripAdvisor apologized for repeatedly deleting forum posts about a resort where the victim had been raped by a security guard.\n\nSelf-censorship is when publications or people self-censor themselves in order to withhold information to protect their image or avoid receiving backlash. Some instances include:\n\n\n\n\nVictims may incur various financial costs because of the sexual assault; for example, costs related to moving (to get away from the perpetrator), a new mattress, legal fees, lost wages, lost tuition fees, new clothing, therapy and medication.\n\nA statute of limitations law may preclude a victim from pressing criminal charges. Limitations periods vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, in Pennsylvania charges must be filed within 12 years of the assault.\n\nStatutory rape is sexual activity in which one of the individuals is below the age of consent. The age of consent is the age at which a young person is capable of consenting to sexual activity.\nThese laws were enacted to recognize the inherent power imbalance between adults and children and that children are incapable of giving true consent to sexual acts with adults. The laws protect children from undue influence, persuasion and manipulation.\n\nIn 2016, the Government of Turkey proposed legislation that would overturn a man conviction for child sex assault if they married their victim.\n\nDefence counsel may argue the victim consented to the sexual activity. Determining if the victim consented can be problematic when the victim is intoxicated. A Nova Scotia court found there was no sexual assault because the prosecution could not prove the sexual activity was non-consensual. In that case, the sexual activity occurred in the back of a taxi cab between a taxi driver and an intoxicated customer.\n\nIn 2011, Cindy Gladue bled to death from an 11-centimetre cut in her vagina. At trial, the accused said Ms. Gladue died after a night of consensual, rough sex in an Edmonton motel. He was acquitted. The case is being appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada. \n\nIn Australia, Canada and the United States, the prior sexual history of the victim is generally not admissible as evidence during a criminal proceeding. These laws are referred to as rape shield laws.\n\nIn Canada, the constitutionality of the rape shield law was challenged on the grounds that it hampers a defendant's ability to present a defence. The law was found to be constitutional by the Supreme Court of Canada: see \"R v Darrach\".\n\nIn Canadian criminal proceedings, the Crown prosecutor does not act on behalf of the victim and is not the victim's lawyer.\n29. Who represents the victim during the trial? Should I get a lawyer to ensure that my rights are met during the trial?\nCrown counsel is not and can never function as the victim's lawyer. Although the Crown appears to be representing the interests of the victim, the Crown is the lawyer for the Queen and the government during the trial. In Canadian criminal cases, the harm is perceived to have been committed against the State. This is why cases are referred to as Regina v. Smith (or R. v. Smith), Regina being the Queen in Latin. The Crown is truly representing the society, of which you are a part. \n\nSexual assault cases commonly involve multiple complainants. In these cases, the defence is likely to apply for separate trials for each offence.\nJoinder of multiple counts is only permitted in certain circumstances.\n\nThe decision to have separate trials is discretionary and is exercised in order to prevent prejudice to the defendant. The threshold question for holding a joint trial is whether or not each complainant's evidence will be admissible in respect of the charges involving the other complainants (that is, whether such evidence is 'cross-admissible'). Decisions to hold separate trials or refuse to admit relevant tendency or propensity evidence about a defendant's sexual behaviour can be seen as barriers to the successful prosecution of sex offences.\n\nThe sexual assault charges against Jian Ghomeshi involved multiple complainants and were dealt with in two separate proceedings. The second trial did not proceed after Ghomeshi agreed to issue an apology.\n\nA victim of sexual assault may be subjected to speculative allegations of wrongdoing during cross-examination. For example, in \"R. v. Sofyan Boalag\" the defence lawyer asserted during the cross-examination that the victim was in fact asking for money in exchange for sex. In that case, the accused was convicted of 13 criminal offences involving six victims including multiple sexual assaults at knife point.\n\nA victim's alcohol consumption at the time of the assault may undermine the victim's ability to remember the assault and his or her ability to provide credible testimony. As noted by Justice Zuker of the Ontario Court of Justice: [414] What makes someone a perfect target in the context of alcohol-facilitated sexual assaults may make that person a poor witness in any ensuing proceedings due to his or her inability to remember part or all of what happened. \n[415] One of the more challenging (and ever-present) issues to evaluate in sexual assault is the question of consent. Sexual assaults may involve alcohol consumption by one or both parties. Frequently, parties to an incident will have limited or no memory of the events in question, and the court will be required to obtain and evaluate information provided by other witnesses or other corroborating evidence. \nDuring cross examination a victim's attire may be scrutinized and they may be accused of wearing revealing clothing. For example, a Toronto woman, who alleged she was sexually assaulted by three police officers after a party, was asked about her choice of wearing a top described as \"really low cut with open sleeves\" to a party mostly attended by \"young men ... who would be drinking.\"\n\nDuring cross-examination, a victim's criminal record may be noted in order to impeach their credibility. This tactic was unsuccessfully used in the trial of Daniel Holtzclaw.\n\nVictims of sexual assault are often subjected to social stigma. The victim may be subject to inappropriate post-assault behaviour or language by medical personnel or other organizations.\n\nSlut-shaming is the practice of blaming the victim for rape and other forms of sexual assault. It rests on the idea that sexual assault is caused (either in part or in full) by the woman wearing revealing clothing or acting in a sexually provocative manner, before refusing consent to sex, and thereby absolving the perpetrator of guilt.\n\nThe SlutWalk challenges the idea of explaining or excusing rape by referring to any aspect of a woman's appearance. The SlutWalk was created in response to comments by a Toronto Police officer who said: \"I've been told I'm not supposed to say this – however, women should avoid dressing like sluts in order not to be victimized.\"\n\nIn 2016, Indian politicians suggested that women's clothing choices could invite sexual assault. The comments were made after a number of women were molested at a New Year's Eve party in Bangalore.\n\nOn the U.S. television program \"The View\", Joy Behar referred to Bill Clinton's sexual assault accusers as \"tramps\". Behar apologized for the sexual slur shortly afterwards.\n\nSexual assault victims may stay away from work in order to avoid contact with the perpetrator. For example, Caroline Lamarre, an office worker who was sexually assaulted at work, has not returned to work in order to avoid contact with her assailant. The assailant was convicted of sexual assault.\n\nVictims of sexual assault may be subjected to cyberbullying, as in the case of the suicide of Audrie Pott, suicide of Rehtaeh Parsons and sexual assault of Savannah Dietrich.\n\nThe Netflix documentary \"Audrie & Daisy\" is about two American high school students who were sexually assaulted by other students. At the time they were assaulted, Audrie Pott was 15 and Daisy Coleman was 14 years old. After the assaults, the victims and their families were subjected to abuse and cyberbullying.\n\nThe movie \"\" is the true story of Nancy Ziegenmeyer, an Iowa resident who was raped in 1991. Her story was groundbreaking because she spoke openly about her experiences including her interactions with hospital staff, the police, prosecutors, the accused, and the criminal justice system.\n\nThe Des Moines Register won the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service in 1991 for publishing the story of Nancy Ziegenmeyer's sexual assault. At the time the article was published it was unusual to publish the victim's name. Ziegenmeyer wrote a book, \"Taking Back My Life\", to encourage women to seek help after they've been victimized.\n\nIn many cultures, rape victims are at very high risk of suffering additional violence or threats of violence after the rape. These acts may be perpetrated by the rapist or by friends and relatives of the rapist as a way of preventing the victims from reporting the rape, of punishing them for reporting it, or of forcing them to withdraw the complaint. In addition, the relatives of the victim may threaten the victim as a punishment for \"bringing shame\" to the family. This is especially the case in cultures where female virginity is highly valued and considered mandatory before marriage; in extreme cases, rape victims are killed in honor killings.\n\nIn some countries, girls and women who are raped are forced by their families to marry their rapist. A marriage is arranged because victims are deemed to have their \"reputation\" tarnished. There is extreme social stigma related to being the victim of rape and the loss of virginity. Marriage is claimed to be advantageous for both the victim—who does not remain unmarried and doesn't lose social status—and of the rapist, who avoids punishment.\n\nIn 2012, the suicide of a 16-year-old Moroccan girl—who, after having been forced by her family to marry her rapist at the suggestion of the prosecutor, and who subsequently endured abuse by the rapist after they married—sparked protests from activists against the law which allows the rapist to marry the victim in order to escape criminal sanctions, and against this social practice which is common in Morocco.\n\nIn 2016, the government of Turkey introduced legislation which would overturn a man's conviction for child sex assault if he married his victim.\n\nVictims often receive support from the community and other victims. For example, when went public regarding her experience, \"she was inundated with letters and phone calls of support, thanks and praise for her courage in going public. Many of the letters were from women who had been raped and had lived with their secrets, often telling no one, often blaming themselves.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the \"Giving Victims a Voice\" report was published in response to allegations of sexual abuse made against English DJ and BBC Television presenter Jimmy Savile. The Director of Public Prosecutions described the report as marking a \"watershed moment\" and apologised for \"shortcomings\" in the handling of prior abuse claims. The report's publication resulted in some highlighting what could be systemic failure because of the number of complainants and institutions identified, but others criticised it for treating allegations as facts.\n\nIn the United States, the Crime Victims' Rights Act grants rights to victims including the right to be reasonably protected from the accused. Similarly, in Canada the \"Canadian Victims Bill of Rights\" provides rights to victims.\n\nThere are victims' rights groups. Rise is an NGO working to implement a bill of rights for sexual assault victims. The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN) is an American group which carries out programs to prevent sexual assault, help victims, and to ensure that rapists are brought to justice. The Victim Rights Law Center is an American non-profit organization that provides free legal services to victims of rape and sexual assault. In the United States, the Office on Violence Against Women works to administer justice and strengthen services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. In South Africa, People Opposing Women Abuse (POWA) is a women's rights organisation that provides services and engages in advocacy to promote women's rights and improve women's quality of life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35437966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35437966", "title": "Problem-solving courts in the United States", "text": "Problem-solving courts in the United States\n\nProblem-solving courts (PSC) address the underlying problems that contribute to criminal behavior and are a current trend in the legal system of the United States. In 1989, a judge in Miami began to take a hands-on approach to drug addicts, ordering them into treatment, rather than perpetuating the revolving door of court and prison. The result was creation of drug court, a diversion program. That same concept began to be applied to difficult situations where legal, social and human problems mesh.\nThere were over 2,800 problem-solving courts in 2008, intended to provide a method of resolving the problem in order to reduce recidivism.\n\nJudith Kaye was Chief Judge of New York from 1993–2008 where she was most responsible for implementing court reform utilizing problem-solving courts in her state, one of the first in the nation. She also co-founded the Center for Court Innovation,\na non-profit think tank headquartered in New York that helps courts and criminal justice agencies decrease crime, provide aid to victims and increase the public's confidence in the justice system.\n\nCenter for Court Innovation researchers explored whether problem-solving justice always requires a specialized court or if core principles and practices from these specialized courts are transferable to conventional courts. After interviewing judges, attorneys and representatives from probation departments and service providers, researchers concluded that a number of principles—such as judicial monitoring and linking offenders to services—could be transferable. The study, conducted in cooperation with the Collaborative Justice Courts Advisory Committee of the Judicial Council of California, was the first of its kind in the country.\nIn 2005, The New Press published \"Good Courts: The Case for Problem-Solving Justice\". The first book to describe the problem-solving court movement in detail, \"Good Courts\" features profiles of Center demonstration projects. The book is being used in law schools and public policy schools, due in part to a law school course on problem-solving justice that the Center piloted at Fordham Law School.\n\nThe National Association of Drug Court Professionals had more than 25,000 members working in 2,663 drug courts and 1,219 other problem-solving courts as of late 2011. Their annual conference offers education and training from experts for problem-solving professionals world-wide.\n\nBoth problem-solving courts and the use of therapeutic jurisprudence greatly improved the outcomes of most cases. Programs have been established for teen court, DWI court, re-entry court Community court, Domestic violence court, Sex offense court, mental health court, and veterans' court.\n\nAccording to the Center for Court Innovation, there are six principles required for problem-solving courts to be effective. There must be \"better information\" available to the staff through training, and comprehensive defendant information for justice officials.\n\"Community engagement\" with the public will encourage cooperation of witnesses, jurors, & community watch groups, and foster trust.\n\"Collaboration\" between legal officials (judges/prosecutors/attorneys/probation officers), social service providers, victim groups and schools will keep everyone focused on the goal.\n\"Individualized Justice\" links offenders to the services they need and provides services for victims to aid in their recovery.\nOffenders must be held \"accountable\" with compliance monitoring and consequences for non-compliance.\n\"Outcomes\" need to be analyzed for cost versus benefit, and to provide continuous improvement of the process.\n\nProblem-solving courts look just like traditional courts, but defendants are referred to as \"clients\" and the judge has extensive knowledge about the client and talks with them directly. A client placed in a treatment program is monitored by the judge for months or years, and will return to court periodically to assess progress and/or problems. The judge can order the client to serve jail time as a punishment while in a treatment program, and the judge decides when the client is to be released from the program.\n\nA 2005 article in the \"New York Times\" noted that because judges have total discretion, the results can be inconsistent. When that situation existed in the criminal justice system, mandatory sentencing guidelines were instituted. Legal scholars have warned that judges may also force their values upon defendants from different cultures. Those critical of the system say many treatment programs are unnecessarily harsh, and any deviation from the rules is punished.\n\nSome public defenders have criticized the use of problem-solving courts because accused persons who accept intervention are implicitly treated as guilty; the courts do not allow an accused person to receive a determination of innocence or guilt. New York Supreme Court Judge James A. Yates has characterized their use as a trend toward \"an inquisitorial system of justice\".\n\nJudges in problem-solving courts need other skills beyond a knowledge of the law; they also must sometimes function as a social worker, therapist, and accountant. Law schools have only recently begun to provide courses on problem-solving justice, and New York Judge Fern Fisher commented that not all judges have the patience and attitude necessary to be effective.\n\nThe Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) is the branch of the U.S. Department of Justice tasked with proving the concept and providing guidelines to state court systems that seek to implement a program. The BJA identified ten projects and provided funding to demonstrate the theories in practice and document their results. They also provide hands-on assistance for any judicial entity seeking to establish a problem-solving court.\n\n"}
{"id": "161995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161995", "title": "Quorum sensing", "text": "Quorum sensing\n\nIn biology, quorum sensing is the ability to detect and to respond to cell population density by gene regulation. As one example, quorum sensing (QS) enables bacteria to restrict the expression of specific genes to the high cell densities at which the resulting phenotypes will be most beneficial. Many species of bacteria use quorum sensing to coordinate gene expression according to the density of their local population. In similar fashion, some social insects use quorum sensing to determine where to nest.\n\nIn addition to its function in biological systems, quorum sensing has several useful applications for computing and robotics. In general, quorum sensing can function as a decision-making process in any decentralized system in which the components have: (a) a means of assessing the number of other components they interact with and (b) a standard response once a threshold number of components is detected.\nSome of the best-known examples of quorum sensing come from studies of bacteria. Bacteria use quorum sensing to regulate certain phenotype expressions, which in turn, coordinate their behaviours. Some common phenotypes include biofilm formation, virulence factor expression, and motility. Certain bacteria are able to use quorum sensing to regulate bioluminescence, nitrogen fixation and sporulation.\n\nQuorum sensing functions based on the local density of the bacterial population in the immediate environment. It can occur within a single bacterial species, as well as between diverse species. Both Gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria use quorum sensing, but there are some major differences in their mechanisms.\n\nFor the bacteria to use quorum sensing constitutively, they must possess three characteristics: to secrete a signaling molecule, an autoinducer, to detect the change in concentration of signaling molecules, and to regulate gene transcription as a response. This process is highly dependent on the diffusion mechanism of the signaling molecules. QS Signaling molecules are usually secreted at a low level by individual bacteria. At low cell density, the molecules may just diffuse away. At high cell density, the local concentration of signaling molecules may exceed its threshold level, and trigger changes in gene expressions.\n\nGram-positive bacteria use autoinducing peptide (AIP) as their autoinducers.\n\nWhen gram-positive bacteria detect high concentration of AIP in the environment, AIP bind to a receptor to activate kinase. The kinase phosphorylates a transcription factor, which regulated gene transcription. This is called a two-component system.\n\nAnother possible mechanism is that AIP is transported into the cytosol, and binds directly to a transcription factor to initiate or inhibit transcription.\n\nGram-negative bacteria produce N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHL) as their signaling molecule. Usually AHLs do not need additional processing, and bind directly to transcription factors to regulate gene expression.\n\nSome gram-negative bacteria may use the two-component system as well.\n\nQuorum sensing was first observed in \"Aliivibrio fischeri\", a bioluminescent bacterium that lives as a mutualistic symbiont in the photophore (or light-producing organ) of the Hawaiian bobtail squid. When \"A. fischeri\" cells are free-living (or planktonic), the autoinducer is at low concentration, and, thus, cells do not show luminescence. However, when the population reaches the threshold in the photophore (about cells/ml), transcription of luciferase is induced, leading to bioluminescence.\n\nIn the Gram-negative bacterium \"Escherichia coli\" (\"E. coli\"), cell division may be partially regulated by AI-2-mediated quorum sensing. This species uses AI-2, which is produced and processed by the \"lsr\" operon. Part of it encodes an ABC transporter, which imports AI-2 into the cells during the early stationary (latent) phase of growth. AI-2 is then phosphorylated by the LsrK kinase, and the newly produced phospho-AI-2 can be either internalized or used to suppress LsrR, a repressor of the \"lsr\" operon (thereby activating the operon). Transcription of the \"lsr\" operon is also thought to be inhibited by dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) through its competitive binding to LsrR. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate has also been shown to inhibit the \"lsr\" operon through cAMP-CAPK-mediated inhibition. This explains why, when grown with glucose, \"E. coli\" will lose the ability to internalize AI-2 (because of catabolite repression). When grown normally, AI-2 presence is transient.\n\n\"E. coli\" and \"Salmonella enterica\" do not produce AHL signals commonly found in other Gram-negative bacteria. However, they have a receptor that detects AHLs from other bacteria and change their gene expression in accordance with the presence of other \"quorate\" populations of Gram-negative bacteria.\n\"Salmonella\" encodes a LuxR homolog, SdiA, but does not encode an AHL synthase. SdiA detects AHLs produced by other species of bacteria including \"Aeromonas hydrophila\", \"Hafnia alvei\", and \"Yersinia enterocolitica\". When AHL is detected, SdiA regulates the \"rck\" operon on the \"Salmonella\" virulence plasmid (\"pefI-srgD-srgA-srgB-rck-srgC\") and a single gene horizontal acquisition in the chromosome \"srgE\". \"Salmonella\" does not detect AHL when passing through the gastrointestinal tracts of several animal species, suggesting that the normal microbiota does not produce AHLs. However, SdiA does become activated when \"Salmonella\" transits through turtles colonized with \"Aeromonas hydrophila\" or mice infected with \"Yersinia enterocolitica\". Therefore, \"Salmonella\" appears to use SdiA to detect the AHL production of other pathogens rather than the normal gut flora.\n\nThe opportunistic pathogen \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" uses quorum sensing to coordinate the formation of biofilm, swarming motility, exopolysaccharide production, virulence, and cell aggregation. These bacteria can grow within a host without harming it, until they reach a threshold concentration. Then they become aggressive, developing to the point at which their numbers are sufficient to overcome the host's immune system, and form a biofilm, leading to disease within the host as the biofilm is a protective layer encasing the bacteria population. Another form of gene regulation that allows the bacteria to rapidly adapt to surrounding changes is through environmental signaling. Recent studies have discovered that anaerobiosis can significantly impact the major regulatory circuit of quorum sensing. This important link between quorum sensing and anaerobiosis has a significant impact on production of virulence factors of this organism. Garlic and ginseng experimentally block quorum sensing in \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\". It is hoped that the therapeutic enzymatic degradation of the signaling molecules will prevent the formation of such biofilms and possibly weaken established biofilms. Disrupting the signalling process in this way is called \"quorum sensing inhibition\".\n\nIt has recently been found that \"Acinetobacter\" sp. also show quorum sensing activity. This bacterium, an emerging pathogen, produces AHLs. \"Acinetobacter\" sp. shows both quorum sensing and quorum quenching activity. It produces AHLs and also, it can degrade the AHL molecules as well.\n\nThis bacterium was previously considered a fish pathogen, but it has recently emerged as a human pathogen. \"Aeromonas\" sp. have been isolated from various infected sites from patients (bile, blood, peritoneal fluid, pus, stool and urine). All isolates produced the two principal AHLs, N-butanoylhomoserine lactone (C4-HSL) and N-hexanoyl homoserine lactone (C6-HSL). It has been documented that Aeromonas sobria has produced C6-HSL and two additional AHLs with N-acyl side chain longer than C6.\n\nThe YenR and YenI proteins produced by the gammaproteobacterium \"Yersinia enterocolitica\" are similar to \"Aliivibrio fischeri\" LuxR and LuxI. YenR activates the expression of a small non-coding RNA, YenS. YenS inhibits YenI expression and acylhomoserine lactone production. YenR/YenI/YenS are involved in the control of swimming and swarming motility.\n\nThree-dimensional structures of proteins involved in quorum sensing were first published in 2001, when the crystal structures of three LuxS orthologs were determined by X-ray crystallography. In 2002, the crystal structure of the receptor LuxP of \"Vibrio harveyi\" with its inducer AI-2 (which is one of the few biomolecules containing boron) bound to it was also determined. Many bacterial species, including \"E. coli\", an enteric bacterium and model organism for Gram-negative bacteria, produce AI-2. A comparative genomic and phylogenetic analysis of 138 genomes of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes found that \"the LuxS enzyme required for AI-2 synthesis is widespread in bacteria, while the periplasmic binding protein LuxP is present only in Vibrio strains,\" leading to the conclusion that either \"other organisms may use components different from the AI-2 signal transduction system of Vibrio strains to sense the signal of AI-2 or they do not have such a quorum sensing system at all.\" Farnesol is used by the fungus \"Candida albicans\" as a quorum sensing molecule that inhibits filamentation.\n\nA database of quorum-sensing peptides is available under the name Quorumpeps.\n\nCertain bacteria can produce enzymes called lactonases that can target and inactivate AHLs.\nResearchers have developed novel molecules which block the signalling receptors of bacteria (Quorum quenching). mBTL is a compound that has been shown to inhibit quorum sensing and decrease the amount of cell death by a significant amount. \nAdditionally, researchers are also examining the role of natural compounds (such as caffeine) as potential quorum sensing inhibitors. Research in this area has been promising and could lead to the development of natural compounds as effective therapeutics.\n\nThe majority of quorum sensing systems that fall under the \"two-gene\" (an autoinducer synthase coupled with a receptor molecule) paradigm as defined by the \"Vibrio fischeri\" system occur in the Gram-negative Proteobacteria. A comparison between the Proteobacteria phylogeny as generated by 16S ribosomal RNA sequences and phylogenies of LuxI-, LuxR-, or LuxS-homologs shows a notably high level of global similarity. Overall, the quorum sensing genes seem to have diverged along with the Proteobacteria phylum as a whole. This indicates that these quorum sensing systems are quite ancient, and arose very early in the Proteobacteria lineage.\n\nAlthough examples of horizontal gene transfer are apparent in LuxI, LuxR, and LuxS phylogenies, they are relatively rare. This result is in line with the observation that quorum sensing genes tend to control the expression of a wide array of genes scattered throughout the bacterial chromosome. A recent acquisition by horizontal gene transfer would be unlikely to have integrated itself to this degree. Given that the majority of autoinducer–synthase/receptor occurs in tandem in bacterial genomes, it is also rare that they switch partners and so pairs tend to co-evolve.\n\nIn quorum sensing genes of Gammaproteobacteria, which includes \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" and \"Escherichia coli\", the LuxI/LuxR genes form a functional pair, with LuxI as the auto-inducer synthase and LuxR as the receptor. Gamma Proteobacteria are unique in possessing quorum sensing genes, which, although functionally similar to the LuxI/LuxR genes, have a markedly divergent sequence. This family of quorum-sensing homologs may have arisen in the gamma Proteobacteria ancestor, although the cause of their extreme sequence divergence yet maintenance of functional similarity has yet to be explained. In addition, species that employ multiple discrete quorum sensing systems are almost all members of the gamma Proteobacteria, and evidence of horizontal transfer of quorum sensing genes is most evident in this class.\n\nAs quorum sensing implies a cooperative behavior, this concept has been challenged by the evolutionary implication of cooperative cheaters. This is circumvented by the concept of \"diffusion sensing\", which has been an alternative and complementary model to quorum sensing. However, both explanations face the problems of signalling in either complex (multiple species sharing the same space) or simple (one single cell confined to a limited volume) environments where the spatial distribution of the cells can be more important for sensing than the cell population density. A new model, \"efficiency sensing\", which takes into account both problematics, population density and spatial confinement, has been proposed as an alternative. One of the probable reasons for controversy is that current terminologies (quorum sensing, diffusion sensing, efficiency sensing) arise from different models of how natural selection has acted to shape and maintain the process. Since each of the various models does apply under some circumstances but not others, a sensible resolution to these controversies could be to return the terminology of the process to autoinduction, as originally described by Hastings and coworkers, as this term does not imply understanding of the function of the process.\n\nNext to the potential antimicrobial functionality, quorum-sensing derived molecules, especially the peptides, are being investigated for their use in other therapeutic domains as well, including immunology, central nervous system disorders and oncology. Quorum-sensing peptides have been demonstrated to interact with cancer cells, as well as to permeate the blood-brain barrier permeation reaching the brain parenchyma\n\n\"Methanosaeta harundinacea\" 6Ac, a methanogenic archaeon, produces carboxylated acyl homoserine lactone compounds that facilitate the transition from growth as short cells to growth as filaments.\n\nQuorum sensing could be described when it was known that bacteria possess the ability to communicate. In the last few years, interactions between bacteria and eukaryotic hosts, such as plants, have been shown. These interactions are facilitated by quorum-sensing molecules and play a major role in maintaining the pathogenicity of bacteria towards other hosts, such as humans. This mechanism can be understood by looking at the effects of N-Acyl homoserine lactone (AHL), one of the quorum sensing-signalling molecules in gram-negative bacteria, on plants. The model organism used is \"Arabidopsis thaliana\".\n\nThe role of AHLs having long carbon-chains (C12, C14), which have an unknown receptor mechanism, is less well understood than AHLs having short carbon-chains (C4, C6, C8), which are perceived by the G protein-coupled receptor. A phenomenon called \"AHL priming\", which is a dependent signalling pathway, enhanced our knowledge of long-chain AHLs. The role of quorum-sensing molecules was better explained according to three categories: host physiology–based impact of quorum sensing molecules; ecological effects; and cellular signaling. Calcium signalling and calmodulin have a large role in short-chain AHLs response in \"Arabidopsis\". Research was also conducted on barley and crop yam bean that reveals the AHLs determining the detoxification enzymes called GST were found less in yam bean.\n\nQuorum sensing-based regulatory systems are necessary to plant-disease-causing bacteria. Looking towards developing new strategies based on plant-associated microbiomes, the aim of further study is to improve the quantity and quality of the food supply. Further research into this inter-kingdom communication also enhances the possibility of learning about quorum sensing in humans.\n\nQuorum quenching is the process of preventing quorum sensing by disrupting signalling. This is achieved by inactivating signalling enzymes, by introducing molecules that mimic signalling molecules and block their receptors, or by degrading signalling molecules themselves.\n\nClosantel and triclosan are known inhibitors of quorum sensing enzymes. Closantel induces aggregation of the histamine kinase sensor in two-component signalling. The latter disrupts the synthesis of a class of signalling molecules known as \"N\"-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs) by blocking the enoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) reductase.\n\nTwo groups of well-known mimicking molecules include halogenated furanones, which mimic AHL molecules, and synthetic Al peptides (AIPs), which mimic naturally occurring AIPs. These groups inhibit receptors from binding substrate or decrease the concentration of receptors in the cell. Furanones have also been found to act on AHL-dependant transcriptional activity, whereby the half life of the autoinducer-binding LuxR protein is significantly shortened.\n\nRecently, a well-studied quorum quenching bacterial strain (KM1S) was isolated and its AHL degradation kinetic was studied using rapid resolution liquid chromatography (RRLC). RRLC efficiently separates components of a mixture to a high degree of sensitivity, based on their affinities for different liquid phases. It was found that the genome of this strain encoded an inactivation enzyme with distinct motifs targeting the degradation of AHLs.\n\nApplications of quorum quenching that have been exploited by humans include the use of AHL-degrading bacteria in aquacultures to limit the spread of diseases in aquatic populations of fish, mollusks and crustaceans. This technique has also been translated to agriculture, to restrict the spread of pathogenic bacteria that use quorum sensing in plants. Anti-biofouling is another process that exploits quorum quenching bacteria to mediate the dissociation of unwanted biofilms aggregating on wet surfaces, such as medical devices, transportation infrastructure and water systems.\n\nSocial insect colonies are an excellent example of a decentralized system, because no individual is in charge of directing or making decisions for the colony. Several groups of social insects have been shown to use quorum sensing in a process that resembles collective decision-making.\n\nColonies of the ant \"Temnothorax albipennis\" nest in small crevices between rocks. When the rocks shift and the nest is broken up, these ants must quickly choose a new nest to move into. During the first phase of the decision-making process, a small portion of the workers leave the destroyed nest and search for new crevices. When one of these scout ants finds a potential nest, she assesses the quality of the crevice based on a variety of factors including the size of the interior, the number of openings (based on light level), and the presence or absence of dead ants. The worker then returns to the destroyed nest, where she waits for a short period before recruiting other workers to follow her to the nest that she has found, using a process called tandem running. The waiting period is inversely related to the quality of the site; for instance, a worker that has found a poor site will wait longer than a worker that encountered a good site. As the new recruits visit the potential nest site and make their own assessment of its quality, the number of ants visiting the crevice increases. During this stage, ants may be visiting many different potential nests. However, because of the differences in the waiting period, the number of ants in the best nest will tend to increase at the greatest rate. Eventually, the ants in this nest will sense that the rate at which they encounter other ants has exceeded a particular threshold, indicating that the quorum number has been reached. Once the ants sense a quorum, they return to the destroyed nest and begin rapidly carrying the brood, queen, and fellow workers to the new nest. Scouts that are still tandem-running to other potential sites are also recruited to the new nest, and the entire colony moves. Thus, although no single worker may have visited and compared all of the available options, quorum sensing enables the colony as a whole to quickly make good decisions about where to move.\n\nHoney bees (\"Apis mellifera\") also use quorum sensing to make decisions about new nest sites. Large colonies reproduce through a process called swarming, in which the queen leaves the hive with a portion of the workers to form a new nest elsewhere. After leaving the nest, the workers form a swarm that hangs from a branch or overhanging structure. This swarm persists during the decision-making phase until a new nest site is chosen.\n\nThe quorum sensing process in honey bees is similar to the method used by \"Temnothorax\" ants in several ways. A small portion of the workers leave the swarm to search out new nest sites, and each worker assesses the quality of the cavity it finds. The worker then returns to the swarm and recruits other workers to her cavity using the honey bee waggle dance. However, instead of using a time delay, the number of dance repetitions the worker performs is dependent on the quality of the site. Workers that found poor nests stop dancing sooner, and can therefore be recruited to the better sites. Once the visitors to a new site sense that a quorum number (usually 10–20 bees) has been reached, they return to the swarm and begin using a new recruitment method called piping. This vibration signal causes the swarm to take off and fly to the new nest location. In an experimental test, this decision-making process enabled honey bee swarms to choose the best nest site in four out of five trials.\n\nQuorum sensing can be a useful tool for improving the function of self-organizing networks such as the SECOAS (Self-Organizing Collegiate Sensor) environmental monitoring system. In this system, individual nodes sense that there is a population of other nodes with similar data to report. The population then nominates just one node to report the data, resulting in power savings. Ad-hoc wireless networks can also benefit from quorum sensing, by allowing the system to detect and respond to network conditions.\n\nQuorum sensing can also be used to coordinate the behavior of autonomous robot swarms. Using a process similar to that used by \"Temnothorax\" ants, robots can make rapid group decisions without the direction of a controller.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35036912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35036912", "title": "Randolph diagram", "text": "Randolph diagram\n\nA Randolph diagram (R-diagram) is a simple way to visualize logical expressions and combinations of sets. Randolph diagrams were created by mathematician John F. Randolph in 1965, while he was teaching at the University of Arkansas.\n\nRandolph diagrams can be interpreted most easily by defining each line as \"belonging to\" or \"relating to\" one logical statement or set. Any dot above the line indicates truth or inclusion and below the line indicates falsity or exclusion. Using this system, one can represent any combination of sets or logical statements using intersecting lines.\n\nThough Venn diagrams are more commonly used to represent combinations of sets, Randolph diagrams have the advantage of being able to cleanly represent combinations of more than 3 sets. Venn diagrams require either extension into higher spatial dimensions or the use of more complicated shapes while Randolph diagrams evenly subdivide for every additional set. Here is a comparison between a Venn diagram and R-diagram for 5 sets or logical statements:\n\nIn his introductory paper on the subject, \"Cross-Examining Propositional Calculus and Set Operations\", Randolph mentions that the first use of crosses and dots to represent logical relationships was introduced by W. S. McCulloch, a neurophysiologist and Randolph's contemporary. Randolph modified McCulloch's system with a new way of representing combinations and relationships of more than two logical statements or sets, namely subdividing each section of the R-diagram with a new diagonal line for each new element introduced. Randolph's paper suggests that his original notion was to use R-diagrams to represent logical relationships, and then expanded the idea to be applied to set theory as well. Throughout the paper, R-diagrams are used in conjunction with normal logical and set binary operation symbols.\n\nWhen applying R-diagrams to logic theory, logical statements p, q, and r can each become a line or multiple lines to visually display the validity of each element in a larger statement. Generally, p is thought to be represented by an upward sloping line (/) while q is represented by a downward sloping line (\\). A dot in the diagram above a slanting line indicates truth for that statement; likewise, a dot below indicates falsity. The R-diagrams for p and q are shown below, respectively:\n\nFor more than two statements, the four spaces formed by the intersection of lines p and q must be subdivided into more lines. In the case of r, a single upward sloping line (/) is added in each of the four spaces. The R-diagram for r is shown below:\n\nThis method can be extended for any number of truth values:\n\n, etc.\n\nR-diagrams are primarily used to represent logical expressions. Given a logical proposition, R-diagrams are able to display the outcome of every possible true/false variation of each element, creating an alternative way to represent a truth table.\n\nAll the basic logical operations, or connectives, can be expressed using an R-diagrams as a more easily readable alternative to a truth table, as is shown in the table below:\n\nR-diagrams can be used to easily simplify complicated logical expressions, using a step-by-step process. Using order of operations, logical operators are applied to R-diagrams in the proper sequence. Finally, the result is an R-diagram that can be converted back into a simpler logical expression.\n\nFor example, take the following expression:\n\nIt can be simplified using R-diagrams as follows:\n\nformula_7\n\nwhich is equal to:\n\nSimilarly, R-diagrams can be used to prove or disprove logical arguments. Take, for instance, the well known argument modus ponens, also known as implication elimination:\n\nThis can be converted into a tautological logical expression,\n\nwhich can then be simplified using R-diagrams:\n\nformula_2formula_16formula_14\n\nformula_12\n\nThe result is an R-diagram in which every space has a dot. This means the argument is a tautology; it is true in all cases. An R-diagram in which no space has a dot is a contradiction, a statement that is never true.\n\nR-diagrams are also used in set theory, as an alternative to Venn diagrams. In set theory, each line represents a set instead of a logical statement; A replaces p and B replaces q. When used for sets, a dot above the line represents inclusion, where a dot below represents exclusion. As in logic, basic set operations can be represented visually using R-diagrams:\n\nR-diagrams illustrate the equivalence between the set theoretical and logical concepts: intersection in set theory is equivalent to conjunction in logic, and set theory's union is equivalent to the logical disjunction.\n"}
{"id": "1187268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187268", "title": "Rational agent", "text": "Rational agent\n\nIn economics, game theory, decision theory, and artificial intelligence, a rational agent is an agent that has clear preferences, models uncertainty via expected values of variables or functions of variables, and always chooses to perform the action with the optimal expected outcome for itself from among all feasible actions. A rational agent can be anything that makes decisions, typically a person, firm, machine, or software.\n\nRational agents are also studied in the fields of cognitive science, ethics, and philosophy, including the philosophy of practical reason.\n\nIn reference to economics, rational agent refers to hypothetical consumers and how they make decisions in a free market. This concept is one of the assumptions made in neoclassical economic theory. The concept of economic rationality arises from a tradition of marginal analysis used in neoclassical economics. The idea of a rational agent is important to the philosophy of utilitarianism, as detailed by philosopher Jeremy Bentham's theory of the felicific calculus, also known as the hedonistic calculus.\n\nThe action a rational agent takes depends on:\n\nIn game theory and classical economics, it is often assumed that the actors, people, and firms are rational. However, the extent to which people and firms behave rationally is subject to debate. Economists often assume the models of rational choice theory and bounded rationality to formalize and predict the behavior of individuals and firms. Rational agents sometimes behave in manners that are counter-intuitive to many people, as in the traveler's dilemma.\n\nMany economic theories reject utilitarianism and rational agency, especially those that might be considered heterodox.\n\nFor example, Thorstein Veblen, known as the father of institutional economics, rejects the notion of hedonistic calculus and pure rationality saying: \"The hedonistic conception of man is that of a lightning calculator of pleasures and pains who oscillates like a homogeneous globule of desire of happiness under the impulse of stimuli that shift him about the area, but leave him intact.\"\n\nVeblen instead perceives human economic decisions as the result of multiple complex cumulative factors: \"It is the characteristic of man to do something, not simply to suffer pleasures and pains through the impact of suitable forces. He is ... a coherent structure of propensities and habits which seeks realization and expression in an unfolding activity. ... They are the products of his hereditary traits and his past experience, cumulatively wrought out under a given body of traditions conventionalities, and material circumstances; and they afford the point of departure for the next step in the process. The economic life history of the individual is a cumulative process of adaptation of means to ends that cumulatively change as the process goes on, both the agent and his environment being at any point the outcome of the last process.\"\nEvolutionary economics also provides criticisms of the Rational Agent, citing the \"parental bent\" (the idea that biological impulses can and do frequently override rational decision making based on utility). Arguments against rational agency have also cited the enormous influence of marketing as proof that humans can be persuaded to make economic decisions that are \"non-rational\" in nature.\n\nNeuroeconomics is a concept that uses neuroscience, social psychology and other fields of science to better understand how people make decisions. Unlike rational agent theory, neuroeconomics does not attempt to predict large-scale human behavior but rather how individuals make decisions in case-by-case scenarios.\n\nArtificial intelligence has borrowed the term \"rational agents\" from economics to describe autonomous programs that are capable of goal directed behavior. Today there is a considerable overlap between AI research, game theory and decision theory. Rational agents in AI are closely related to \"intelligent agents\", autonomous software programs that display intelligence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3225574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3225574", "title": "Reflection principle", "text": "Reflection principle\n\nIn set theory, a branch of mathematics, a reflection principle says that it is possible to find sets that resemble the class of all sets. There are several different forms of the reflection principle depending on exactly what is meant by \"resemble\". Weak forms of the reflection principle are theorems of ZF set theory due to , while stronger forms can be new and very powerful axioms for set theory. \n\nThe name \"reflection principle\" comes from the fact that properties of the universe of all sets are \"reflected\" down to a smaller set.\n\nA naive version of the reflection principle states that \"for any property of the universe of all sets we can find a set with the same property\". This leads to an immediate contradiction: \nthe universe of all sets contains all sets, but there is no set with the property that it contains all sets. To get useful (and non-contradictory) reflection principles we need to be more careful about what we mean by \"property\" and what properties we allow. \n\nTo find non-contradictory reflection principles we might argue informally as follows. Suppose that we have some collection \"A\" of methods for forming sets (for example, taking powersets, subsets, the axiom of replacement, and so on). We can imagine taking all sets obtained by repeatedly applying all these methods, and form these sets into a class \"V\", which can be thought of as a model of some set theory. But now we can introduce the following new principle for forming sets: \"the collection of all sets obtained from some set by repeatedly applying all methods in the collection \"A\" is also a set\". If we allow this new principle for forming sets, we can now continue past \"V\", and consider the class \"W\" of all sets formed using the principles \"A\" and the new principle. In this class \"W\", \"V\" is just a set, closed under\nall the set-forming operations of \"A\". In other words the universe \"W\" contains a \"set\" \"V\" which resembles \"W\" in that it is closed under all the methods \"A\".\n\nWe can use this informal argument in two ways. We can try to formalize it in (say) ZF set theory; by doing this we obtain some theorems of ZF set theory, called reflection theorems. \nAlternatively we can use this argument to motivate introducing new axioms for set theory.\n\nIn trying to formalize the argument for the reflection principle of the previous section in ZF set theory, it turns out to be necessary to add some conditions about the collection of properties \"A\" (for example, \"A\" might be finite). Doing this produces \nseveral closely related \"reflection theorems\" of ZFC all of which state that we can find a set that is almost a model of ZFC. \n\nOne form of the reflection principle in ZFC says that for any finite set of axioms of ZFC we can find a countable transitive model satisfying these axioms. (In particular this proves that, unless inconsistent, ZFC is not finitely axiomatizable because if it were it would prove the existence of a model of itself, and hence prove its own consistency, contradicting Gödel's second incompleteness theorem.) This version of the reflection theorem is closely related to the Löwenheim–Skolem theorem. \n\nAnother version of the reflection principle says that for any finite number of formulas of ZFC we can find a set \"V\" in the cumulative hierarchy such that all the formulas in the set are absolute for \"V\" (which means very roughly that they hold in \"V\" if and only if they hold in the universe of all sets). So this says that the set \"V\" resembles the universe of all sets, at least as far as the given finite number of formulas is concerned. In particular for any formula of ZFC there is a theorem of ZFC that the formula is logically equivalent to a version of it with all quantifiers relativized to \"V\" See .\n\nIf κ is a strong inaccessible, then there is a closed unbounded subset \"C\" of κ, such that for every α∈\"C\", the identity function from V to V is an elementary embedding.\n\nBernays used a reflection principle as an axiom for one version of set theory (not Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory, which is a weaker theory). His reflection principle stated roughly that if \"A\" is a class with some property, then one can find a transitive set \"u\" such that \"A∩u\" has the same property when considered as a subset of the \"universe\" \"u\". This is quite a powerful axiom and implies the existence of several of the smaller large cardinals, such as inaccessible cardinals. (Roughly speaking, the class of all ordinals in ZFC is an inaccessible cardinal apart from the fact that it is not a set, and the reflection principle can then be used to show that there is a set which has the same property, in other words which is an inaccessible cardinal.) Unfortunately, this cannot be axiomatized directly in ZFC, and a class theory like MK normally has to be used. The consistency of Bernays's reflection principle is implied by the existence of a ω-Erdős cardinal. \n\nThere are many more powerful reflection principles, which are closely related to the various large cardinal axioms. For almost every known large cardinal axiom there is a known reflection principle that implies it, and conversely all but the most powerful known reflection principles are implied by known large cardinal axioms . An example of this is the wholeness axiom, which implies the existence of super-n-huge cardinals for all finite n and its consistency is implied by an I3 rank-into-rank cardinal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6727838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6727838", "title": "Robert J. Goldstein", "text": "Robert J. Goldstein\n\nDr. Robert J. Goldstein is an American conspirator who plotted with two accomplices to destroy the Islamic Education Center in Pinellas County, Florida with homemade C4. A police search of the Goldstein home found a list of 50 Islamic worship centers on Florida, home-made explosives and a mission statement to \"Kill all rags\". Goldstein admitted that he planned to destroy the center and plead guilty to conspiracy to violate civil rights, conspiracy to damage religious property, and possession of unlicensed destructive devices. He was sentenced to 12 years and 7 months in Federal prison.\n\nAhmed Bedier, a spokesman for the Council for American-Islamic Relations who worshipped at the Pinellas County mosque, alleged double standards in the treatment of Goldstein and argued that Goldstein should have been prosecuted as a terrorist, but prosecutors said the facts of the case didn't warrant such a charge. \"I'm happy he's behind bars and will serve some time, but it's nowhere enough for the damage he intended to do,\" Bedier said.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3252046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252046", "title": "Rota Fortunae", "text": "Rota Fortunae\n\nIn medieval and ancient philosophy the Wheel of Fortune, or Rota Fortunae, is a symbol of the capricious nature of Fate. The wheel belongs to the goddess Fortuna (Greek equivalent Tyche) who spins it at random, changing the positions of those on the wheel: some suffer great misfortune, others gain windfalls. Fortune appears on all paintings as a woman, sometimes blindfolded, \"puppeteering\" a wheel.\n\nThe origin of the word is from the \"wheel of fortune\" - the zodiac, referring to the Celestial spheres of which the 8th holds the stars, and the 9th is where the signs of the zodiac are placed. The concept was first invented in Babylon and later developed by the ancient Greeks.\n\nThe concept somewhat resembles the \"Bhavacakra\", or Wheel of Becoming, depicted throughout Ancient Indian art and literature, except that the earliest conceptions in the Roman and Greek world involve not a two-dimensional wheel but a three-dimensional sphere, a metaphor for the world. It was widely used in the Ptolemaic perception of the universe as the zodiac being a wheel with its \"signs\" constantly turning throughout the year and having effect on the world's fate (or fortune).\nVettius Valens, a second century BC astronomer and astrologer, wrote:\n\nIn the same century, the Roman tragedian Pacuvius wrote:\n\nThe idea of the rolling ball of fortune became a literary topos and was used frequently in declamation. In fact, the \"Rota Fortunae\" became a prime example of a trite topos or meme for Tacitus, who mentions its rhetorical overuse in the \"Dialogus de oratoribus\".\n\nThe goddess and her Wheel were eventually absorbed into Western medieval thought. The Roman philosopher Boethius (c. 480-524) played a key role, utilizing both her and her Wheel in his \"Consolatio Philosophiae\". For example, from the first chapter of the second book:\n\nI know the manifold deceits of that monstrous lady, Fortune; in particular, her fawning friendship with those whom she intends to cheat, until the moment when she unexpectedly abandons them, and leaves them reeling in agony beyond endurance.\n\nHaving entrusted yourself to Fortune's dominion, you must conform to your mistress's ways. What, are you trying to halt the motion of her whirling wheel? Dimmest of fools that you are, you must realize that if the wheel stops turning, it ceases to be the course of chance.\"\n\nThe Wheel was widely used as an allegory in medieval literature and art to aid religious instruction. Though classically Fortune's Wheel could be favourable and disadvantageous, medieval writers preferred to concentrate on the tragic aspect, dwelling on downfall of the mighty - serving to remind people of the temporality of earthly things. In the morality play \"Everyman\" (c. 1495), for instance, Death comes unexpectedly to claim the protagonist. Fortune's Wheel has spun Everyman low, and Good Deeds, which he previously neglected, are needed to secure his passage to heaven.\n\nGeoffrey Chaucer used the concept of the tragic Wheel of Fortune a great deal. It forms the basis for the \"Monk's Tale\", which recounts stories of the great brought low throughout history, including Lucifer, Adam, Samson, Hercules, Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, Nero, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar and, in the following passage, Peter I of Cyprus.\n\n~ Geoffrey Chaucer, \"The Canterbury Tales\", The Monk's Tale\n\nFortune's Wheel often turns up in medieval art, from manuscripts to the great Rose windows in many medieval cathedrals, which are based on the Wheel. Characteristically, it has four shelves, or stages of life, with four human figures, usually labeled on the left \"regnabo\" (I shall reign), on the top \"regno\" (I reign) and is usually crowned, descending on the right \"regnavi\" (I have reigned) and the lowly figure on the bottom is marked \"sum sine regno\" (I am without a kingdom). Dante employed the Wheel in the \"Inferno\" and a \"Wheel of Fortune\" trump-card appeared in the Tarot deck (circa 1440, Italy).\n\nIn the medieval and renaissance period, a popular genre of writing was \"Mirrors for Princes\", which set out advice for the ruling classes on how to wield power (the most famous being \"The Prince\" by Niccolò Machiavelli). Such political treatises could use the concept of the Wheel of Fortune as an instructive guide to their readers. John Lydgate's \"Fall of Princes\", written for his patron Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester is a noteworthy example.\n\nMany Arthurian romances of the era also use the concept of the Wheel in this manner, often placing the Nine Worthies on it at various points.\n\n...fortune is so variant, and the wheel so moveable, there nis none constant abiding, and that may be proved by many old chronicles, of noble Hector, and Troilus, and Alisander, the mighty conqueror, and many mo other; when they were most in their royalty, they alighted lowest. \n~ Lancelot in Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", Chapter XVII.\n\nLike the Mirrors for Princes, this could be used to convey advice to readers. For instance, in most romances, Arthur's greatest military achievement - the conquest of the Roman Empire - is placed late on in the overall story. However, in Malory's work the Roman conquest and high point of King Arthur's reign is established very early on. Thus, everything that follows is something of a decline. Arthur, Lancelot and the other Knights of the Round Table are meant to be the paragons of chivalry, yet in Malory's telling of the story they are doomed to failure. In medieval thinking, only God was perfect, and even a great figure like King Arthur had to be brought low. For the noble reader of the tale in the Middle Ages, this moral could serve as a warning, but also as something to aspire to. Malory could be using the concept of Fortune's Wheel to imply that if even the greatest of chivalric knights made mistakes, then a normal fifteenth-century noble didn't have to be a paragon of virtue in order to be a good knight.\n\nThe Wheel of Fortune motif appears significantly in the \"Carmina Burana\" (or \"Burana Codex\"), albeit with a postclassical phonetic spelling of the genitive form \"Fortunae\". Excerpts from two of the collection's better known poems, \"\"Fortuna Imperatrix Mundi\" (Fortune, Empress of the World)\" and \"\"Fortune Plango Vulnera\" (I Bemoan the Wounds of Fortune),\" read:\n\n\"\n\nFortune and her Wheel have remained an enduring image throughout history. Fortune's wheel can also be found in Thomas More's \"Utopia\".\n\nWilliam Shakespeare in \"Hamlet\" wrote of the \"slings and arrows of outrageous fortune\" and, of fortune personified, to \"break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel.\" And in \"Henry V\", Act 3 Scene VI are the lines:\n\nShakespeare also references this Wheel in \"King Lear\". The Earl of Kent, who was once held dear by the King, has been banished, only to return in disguise. This disguised character is placed in the stocks for an overnight and laments this turn of events at the end of Act II, Scene 2:\n\nIn Act IV, scene vii, King Lear also contrasts his misery on the \"wheel of fire\" to Cordelia's \"soul in bliss\".\n\nRosalind and Celia also discuss Fortune, especially as it stands opposed to Nature, in \"As You Like It\", Act I, scene ii.\n\nIn Anthony Trollope's novel \"The Way We Live Now\", the character Lady Carbury writes a novel entitled \"The Wheel of Fortune\" about a heroine who suffers great financial hardships.\n\nSelections from the \"Carmina Burana\", including the two poems quoted above, were set to new music by twentieth-century classical composer Carl Orff, whose well-known \"O Fortuna\" is based on the poem \"Fortuna Imperatrix Mundi\".\n\nFortuna does occasionally turn up in modern literature, although these days she has become more or less synonymous with Lady Luck. Her Wheel is less widely used as a symbol, and has been replaced largely by a reputation for fickleness. She is often associated with gamblers, and dice could also be said to have replaced the Wheel as the primary metaphor for uncertain fortune. In his novel, \"The Club Dumas\", Arturo Pérez-Reverte includes a wheel of fortune in one of the illustrations that accompany the text. Ignatius J. Reilly, the central protagonist of John Kennedy Toole's novel \"A Confederacy of Dunces\", states that he believes the Rota Fortunae to be the source of all men's fate.\n\nJerry Garcia recorded a song entitled \"The Wheel\" (co-written with Robert Hunter and Bill Kreutzmann) for his 1972 solo album \"Garcia\", and performed the song regularly with the Grateful Dead from 1976 onward. The song \"Wheel in the Sky\" by Journey from their 1978 release \"Infinity\" also touches on the concept through the lyrics \"Wheel in the sky keeps on turnin' / I don't know where I'll be tomorrow\". The song \"Throw Your Hatred Down\" by Neil Young on his 1995 album \"Mirror Ball\", recorded with Pearl Jam, has the verse \"The wheel of fortune / Keeps on rollin' down\". The Trip-Hop group Massive Attack refer to the Wheel of Fortune on their track \"Hymn Of The Big Wheel\" on the 1991 album Blue Lines.\n\nSeveral old folk tunes mention the wheel of fortune, most notably 'Fakenham Fair' with its chorus lyrics of 'So spin me around on the merry-go-round/Give the wheel of fortune a whirl'.\n\nVarious games of chance involve spinning a wheel marked with preset outcomes, mirroring the \"wheel of fortune\" concept. This is notably done on the long-running, internationally syndicated game show \"Wheel of Fortune\", where contestants win or lose money determined by the spin of the wheel. Such a wheel is also featured in the game show \"The Price Is Right\", in the \"Showcase Showdown\" segment. In the 1985 film \"Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome\", such a wheel was used to determine punishments for criminals.\n\nThe 1994 film \"The Hudsucker Proxy\" refers often to the Rota Fortunae concept, especially in its use of circles as a visual motif. In the TV series \"Firefly\" (2002), the main character, Malcolm Reynolds, says \"The Wheel never stops turning, Badger\" to which Badger replies \"That only matters to the people on the rim\". In the science fiction TV series \"Farscape\", the third-season episode \"Self-Inflicted Wounds (Part 2): Wait for the Wheel\" has main character Crichton mention that his grandmother told him that fate was like a wheel, alternately bringing fortunes up and down.\n\nThe video game series character Kain (Legacy of Kain) used the wheel of fate. In the \"Fable\" video game series, the wheel of fortune appears twice, somehow perverted. The Wheel of Unholy Misfortune is a torture device in \"Fable II\". It is found in the Temple of Shadows in Rookridge. The Hero can use the wheel to sacrifice followers to the shadows. In \"Fable III\", Reaver's Wheel of Misfortune is a device that, once activated, sends to The Hero a round of random monsters.\n\nThe Wheel of Fortune is featured in a \"\" card by that name that forces all players to discard their hands and draw new ones.\n"}
{"id": "20615363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20615363", "title": "SAHRIT", "text": "SAHRIT\n\nThe Human Rightssa Trust of Southern Africa, better known as SAHRIT, is a human rights groups established in October 2006 to promote human rights in Southern Africa. It has its headquarters in Harare.\n\n"}
{"id": "1737582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737582", "title": "School violence", "text": "School violence\n\nSchool violence encompasses physical violence, including student-on-student fighting and corporal punishment; psychological violence, including verbal abuse; sexual violence, including rape and sexual harassment; many forms of bullying, including cyberbullying; and carrying weapons in school. It is widely held to have become a serious problem in recent decades in many countries, especially where weapons such as guns or knives are involved. It includes violence between school students as well as physical attacks by students on school staff.\n\nA distinction is made between internalizing and externalizing behavior. Internalizing behaviors reflect withdrawal, inhibition, anxiety, and/or depression. Internalizing behavior has been found in some cases of youth violence although in some youth, depression is associated with substance abuse. Because they rarely act out, students with internalizing problems are often overlooked by school personnel. Externalizing behaviors refer to delinquent activities, aggression, and hyperactivity. Unlike internalizing behaviors, externalizing behaviors include, or are directly linked to, violent episodes. Violent behaviors such as punching and kicking are often learned from observing others. Just as externalizing behaviors are observed outside of school, such behaviors also observed in schools.\n\nA number of other individual factors are associated with higher levels of aggressiveness. Compared to children whose antisocial conduct begins in adolescence, early starters have a worse prognosis in terms of future aggression and other antisocial activities. Lower IQ is related to higher levels of aggression. Other findings indicate that in boys early problematic motor skills, attentional difficulties, and reading problems predict later persistent antisocial conduct.\n\nThe home environment is thought to contribute to school violence. The Constitutional Rights Foundation suggests long-term exposure to gun violence, parental alcoholism, domestic violence, physical abuse of the child, and child sexual abuse teaches children that criminal and violent activities are acceptable. Harsh parental discipline is associated with higher levels of aggressiveness in youth. There is some evidence indicating that exposure to television violence and, to a lesser extent, violent video games is related to increased aggressiveness in children, which, in turn, may carry over into school.\n\nStraus adduced evidence for the view that exposure to parental corporal punishment increases the risk of aggressive conduct in children and adolescents. Straus's findings have been contested by Larzelere and Baumrind. A meta-analysis of the vast literature on corporal punishment, however, indicates that corporal punishment is related to poorer outcomes in children and youth. The methodologically soundest studies indicate \"positive, moderately sized associations between parental corporal punishment and children’s aggression.\" Gershoff found that the trajectory of mean effect sizes (the size of the effect of corporal punishment on children's problem behavior) was curvilinear with the largest mean effect size in middle school (\"M\" = 0.55; on average the mean of corporal punishment group was more than half a standard deviation higher than the mean of the non-punishment group) and slightly smaller effect sizes in grade school (\"M\" = 0.43) and high school (\"M\" = 0.45).\n\nGerald Patterson's social interactional model, which involves the mother's application and the child's counterapplication of \"coercive\" behaviors, also explains the development of aggressive conduct in the child. In this context, coercive behaviors include behaviors that are ordinarily punishing (e.g., whining, yelling, hitting, etc.). Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others. Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten. Longer-term, follow-up research with the same children suggests that partial mediating effects last until third and fourth grade. Hirschi's (1969) control theory advances the view that children with weak affective ties to parents and school are at increased risk of engaging in delinquent and violent behavior in and out of school. Hirschi's cross-sectional data from northern California high-school students are largely consistent with this view. Findings from case-control and longitudinal studies are also consistent with this view.\n\nNeighbourhoods and communities provide the context for school violence. Communities with high rates of crime and drug use teach youth the violent behaviors that are carried into schools. Children in violent neighborhoods tend to perceive that their communities are risky, and that these feelings of vulnerability carry over to the school environment. Dilapidated housing in the neighbourhood of the school has been found to be associated with school violence. Teacher assault was more likely to occur in schools located in high-crime neighbourhoods. Exposure to deviant peers is a risk factor for high levels of aggressivity. Research has shown that poverty and high population densities are associated with higher rates of school violence. Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates. Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score matching indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence. Neighbourhood gangs are thought to contribute to dangerous school environments. Gangs use the social environment of the school to recruit members and interact with opposing groups, with gang violence carrying over from neighbourhoods into some schools. Alternatively, many children who grow up in violent neighborhoods learn to deliberately find and make \"street-oriented\" friends as an instrumental tactic used to avoid being victimized. Without the threat of violence, children more commonly develop friendships based on homophily, or shared traits.\n\nRecent research has linked the school environment to school violence. Teacher assaults are associated with a higher percentage male faculty, a higher proportion of male students, and a higher proportion of students receiving free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of poverty). In general, a large male population, higher grade levels, a history of high levels of disciplinary problems in the school, high student to teacher ratios, and an urban location are related to violence in schools. In students, academic performance is inversely related to antisocial conduct. The research by Hirschi and others, cited above in the section on the home environment, is also consistent with the view that lack of attachment to school is associated with increased risk of antisocial conduct.\n\nThe goal of prevention and intervention strategies is to stop school violence from occurring. According to the CDC, there are at least four levels at which violence-prevention programs can act: at the level of society in general, the school community, the family, and the individual.\n\n\n\nResearch on violence affecting children in schools is challenging for a variety of reasons.\n\nWhen trying to measure the scope of violence in schools and to find out about the types of violence experienced by students, some key issues include: from what categories of the school community to collect the data; what data should be collected from each categories; and using which methods. For example, should there be studies or surveys where researchers ask students directly about violence in school, through self-reports about the violence they experienced as targets or perpetrators? Or should they be asked about incidents of violence that they have witnessed as bystanders? Should any of these questions be asked via self-administered questionnaires or questionnaires administered by researchers in schools? Does it make more sense to collect this data outside of schools, for example, through household surveys? Or through online surveys where students have access to the internet? Or is it better to rely on mechanisms for reporting incidents of violence in educational institutions when they are available, either in the schools themselves or outside schools (governmental hotlines, internet-based reporting systems, police and justice sectors, etc.)? What questions can be asked of children, using terminology that is easy to understand, age-appropriate and culturally sensitive?\n\nIn most countries there are strict rules related to research involving children, as they are under the age of consent. Therefore, requesting informed consent from the children in a study involves their parents and guardians. Asking children about violence, and particularly violence they have experienced themselves, can be traumatic. Finally, researching issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/orientation in education and in relation to children has additional challenges. In some contexts it is not legal to discuss these issues either in schools or even outside of schools. Where it is legal, it may be considered as a very sensitive topic to be discussed with children and young people. Asking children and young people questions related to their sexual orientation and gender identity in the school setting is ethically questionable, as it could embarrass them and expose them to stigma and discrimination, unless questions are asked in strict confidence and anonymity is granted by independent researchers external to schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "1082432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082432", "title": "Scientific essentialism", "text": "Scientific essentialism\n\nScientific essentialism, a view espoused by Saul Kripke and Hilary Putnam, maintains that there exist essential properties that objects possess (or instantiate) necessarily. In other words, having such and such essential properties is a necessary condition for membership in a given natural kind. For example, tigers are tigers in virtue of possessing a particular set of genetic properties, but identifying (or appearance-based) properties are nonessential properties. If a tiger lost a leg, or didn't possess stripes, we would still call it a tiger. They are not necessary for being a member of the class of tigers.\n\nIt is important, however, that the set of essential properties of an object not be used to identify or be identified with that object because they are not \"necessary and sufficient\", but only necessary. Having such and such a genetic code does not suffice for being a tiger. We wouldn't call a piece of tiger tail a tiger, even though a piece of tiger tail contains the genetic information essential to being a tiger.\n\nOther advocates of scientific essentialism include Brian Ellis, Caroline Lierse, John Bigelow, and Alexander Bird.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566626", "title": "Sensory garden", "text": "Sensory garden\n\nA sensory garden is a self-contained garden area that allows visitors to enjoy a wide variety of sensory experiences. Sensory gardens are designed to provide opportunities to stimulate the senses, both individually and in combination, in ways that users may not usually encounter.\n\nSensory gardens have a wide range of educational and recreational applications. They can be used in the education of special-needs students, including people with autism. As a form of horticultural therapy, they may be helpful in the care of people with dementia. \n\nSensory gardens can be designed in such a way as to be accessible and enjoyable for both disabled and non-disabled users. A sensory garden, for example, may contain features accessible to the disabled individual such as: scented and edible plants, sculptures and sculpted handrails, water features designed to make sound and play over the hands, textured touch-pads, magnifying-glass screens, braille and audio induction loop descriptions. Depending on the user group, other provisions may integrate sound and music more centrally to combine the play needs of younger users with their sensory needs.\n\nMany sensory gardens devote themselves to providing experience for multiple senses; those specialising in scent are sometimes called scented gardens, those specialising in music/sound are sound gardens where the equipment doubles up to provides an enhanced opportunity for strategic developmental, learning and educational outcomes.\n\nSensory Gardens usually have an enhanced infrastructure to permit wheelchair access and meet other accessibility concerns; the design and layout provides a stimulating journey through the senses, heightening awareness, and bringing positive learning experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "197179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197179", "title": "Sexual dimorphism", "text": "Sexual dimorphism\n\nSexual dimorphism is the condition where the two sexes of the same species exhibit different characteristics beyond the differences in their sexual organs. The condition occurs in many animals and some plants. Differences may include secondary sex characteristics, size, weight, color, markings, and may also include behavioral and cognitive differences. These differences may be subtle or exaggerated, and may be subjected to sexual selection. The opposite of dimorphism is \"monomorphism\".\n\nCommon and easily identified types of dimorphism are ornamentation and coloration, though not always apparent. A difference in coloration of sexes within a given species is called sexual dichromatism, which is commonly seen in many species of birds and reptiles. Sexual selection leads to the exaggerated dimorphic traits that are used predominantly in competition over mates. The increased fitness resulting from ornamentation offsets its cost to produce or maintain suggesting complex evolutionary implications, but the costs and evolutionary implications vary from species to species.\n\nExaggerated ornamental traits are used predominantly in the competition over mates, implying sexual selection. Ornaments may be costly to produce or maintain, which has complex evolutionary implications but the costs and implications differ depending on the nature of the ornamentation (such as the colour mechanism involved).\n\nThe peafowl constitute conspicuous illustrations of the principle. The ornate plumage of peacocks, as used in the courting display, attracts peahens. At first sight one might mistake peacocks and peahens for completely different species because of the vibrant colours and the sheer size of the male's plumage; the peahen being of a subdued brown coloration. The plumage of the peacock increases its vulnerability to predators because it is a hindrance in flight, and it renders the bird conspicuous in general. Similar examples are manifold, such as in birds of paradise and argus pheasants.\n\nAnother example of sexual dichromatism is that of the nestling blue tits. Males are chromatically more yellow than females. It is believed that this is obtained by the ingestion of green lepidopteran larvae, which contain large amounts of the carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin. This diet also affects the sexually dimorphic colours in the human-invisible UV spectrum. Hence, the male birds, although appearing yellow to humans actually have a violet-tinted plumage that is seen by females. This plumage is thought to be an indicator of male parental abilities. Perhaps this is a good indicator for females because it shows that they are good at obtaining a food supply from which the carotenoid is obtained. There is a positive correlation between the chromas of the tail and breast feathers and body condition. Carotenoids play an important role in immune function for many animals, so carotenoid dependent signals might indicate health.\n\nFrogs constitute another conspicuous illustration of the principle. There are two types of dichromatism for frog species: ontogenetic and dynamic. Ontogenetic frogs are more common and have permanent color changes in males or females. Litoria lesueuri is an example of a dynamic frog that has temporary color changes in males during breeding season. Hyperolius ocellatus is an ontogenetic frog with dramatic differences in both color and pattern between the sexes. At sexual maturity, the males display a bright green with white dorsolateral lines. In contrast, the females are rusty red to silver with small spots. The bright coloration in the male population serves to attract females and as an aposematic sign to potential predators.\n\nFemales often show a preference for exaggerated male secondary sexual characteristics in mate selection. The sexy son hypothesis explains that females prefer more elaborate males and select against males that are dull in color, independent of the species’ vision.\n\nSimilar sexual dimorphism and mating choice are also observed in many fish species. For example, male guppies have colorful spots and ornamentations while females are generally grey in color. Female guppies prefer brightly colored males to duller males.\n\nIn redlip blennies, only the male fish develops an organ at the anal-urogenital region that produces antimicrobial substances. During parental care, males rub their anal-urogenital regions over their nests' internal surfaces, thereby protecting their eggs from microbial infections, one of the most common causes for mortality in young fish.\n\nMost flower plants are hermaphroditic but approximately 6% have separate males and females (dioecy). Males and females in insect-pollinated species generally look similar to one another because plants provide rewards (e.g. nectar) that encourage pollinators to visit another similar flower, completing pollination. \"Catasetum\" orchids are one interesting exception to this rule. Male \"Catasetum\" orchids violently attach pollinia to euglossine bee pollinators. The bees will then avoid other male flowers but may visit the female, which looks different from the males.\n\nVarious other dioecious exceptions, such as \"Loxostylis alata\" have visibly different genders, with the effect of eliciting the most efficient behaviour from pollinators, who then use the most efficient strategy in visiting each gender of flower instead of searching say, for pollen in a nectar-bearing female flower.\n\nSome plants, such as some species of \"Geranium\" have what amounts to serial sexual dimorphism. The flowers of such species might for example present their anthers on opening, then shed the exhausted anthers after a day or two and perhaps change their colours as well while the pistil matures; specialist pollinators are very much inclined to concentrate on the exact appearance of the flowers they serve, which saves their time and effort and serves the interests of the plant accordingly. Some such plants go even further and change their appearance again once they have been fertilised, thereby discouraging further visits from pollinators. This is advantageous to both parties because it avoids damage to the developing fruit and avoids wasting the pollinator's effort on unrewarding visits. In effect the strategy ensures that the pollinators can expect a reward every time they visit an appropriately advertising flower.\n\nFemales of the aquatic plant \"Vallisneria americana\" have floating flowers attached by a long flower stalk that are fertilized if they contact one of the thousands of free floating flowers released by a male. Sexual dimorphism is most often associated with wind-pollination in plants due to selection for efficient pollen dispersal in males vs pollen capture in females, e.g. \"Leucadendron rubrum\".\n\nSexual dimorphism in plants can also be dependent on reproductive development. This can be seen in \"Cannabis sativa\", a type of hemp, which have higher photosynthesis rates in males while growing but higher rates in females once the plants become sexually mature.\n\nIt also should be borne in mind that every sexually reproducing extant species of vascular plant actually has an alternation of generations; the plants we see about us generally are diploid sporophytes, but their offspring really are not the seeds that people commonly recognise as the new generation. The seed actually is the offspring of the haploid generation of microgametophytes (pollen) and megagametophytes (the embryo sacs in the ovules). Each pollen grain accordingly may be seen as a male plant in its own right; it produces a sperm cell and is dramatically different from the female plant, the megagametophyte that produces the female gamete.\n\nInsects display a wide variety of sexual dimorphism between taxa including size, ornamentation and coloration. The female-biased sexual size dimorphism observed in many taxa evolved despite intense male-male competition for mates. In \"Osmia rufa\", for example, the female is larger/broader than males, with males being 8–10 mm in size and females being 10–12 mm in size. In the hackberry emperor females are similarly larger than males. The reason for the sexual dimorphism is due to provision size mass, in which females consume more pollen than males. \n\nIn some species, there is evidence of male dimorphism, but it appears to be for the purpose of distinctions of roles. This is seen in the bee species \"Macrotera portalis\" in which there is a small-headed morph, capable of flight, and large-headed morph, incapable of flight, for males. \"Anthidium manicatum\" also displays male-biased sexual dimorphism. The selection for larger size in males rather than females in this species may have resulted due to their aggressive territorial behavior and subsequent differential mating success. Another example is\" Lasioglossum hemichalceum\", which is a species of sweat bee that shows drastic physical dimorphisms between male offpsring. Not all dimorphism has to have a drastic difference between the sexes. \"Andrena agilissima\" is a mining bee where the females only have a slightly larger head than the males.\n\nWeaponry leads to increased fitness by increasing success in male-male competition in many insect species. The beetle horns in \"Onthophagus taurus\" are enlarged growths of the head or thorax expressed only in the males. \"Copris ochus\" also has distinct sexual and male dimorphism in head horns. These structures are impressive because of the exaggerated sizes. There is a direct correlation between male horn lengths and body size and higher access to mates and fitness. In other beetle species, both males and females may have ornamentation such as horns.\nGenerally, insect sexual size dimorphism (SSD) within species increases with body size.\n\nSexual dimorphism within insects is also displayed by dichromatism. In butterfly genera \"Bicyclus\" and \"Junonia\", dimorphic wing patterns evolved due to sex-limited expression, which mediates the intralocus sexual conflict and leads to increased fitness in males. The sexual dichromatic nature of \"Bicyclus anyana\" is reflected by female selection on the basis of dorsal UV-reflective eyespot pupils (Robertson & Monteiro, 2005). The common brimstone also displays sexual dichromatism; males have yellow and iridescent wings, while female wings are white and non-iridescent. Naturally selected deviation in protective female coloration is displayed in mimetic butterflies.\n\nSize dimorphism shows a correlation with sexual cannibalism, which is prominent in spiders (it is also found in insects such as praying mantises). In the size dimorphic wolf spider, food-limited females cannibalize more frequently. Therefore, there is a high risk of low fitness for males due to pre-copulatory cannibalism, which led to male selection of larger females for two reasons: higher fecundity and lower rates of cannibalism. In addition, female fecundity is positively correlated with female body size and large female body size is selected for, which is seen in the family Araneidae. All \"Argiope\" species, including \"Argiope bruennichi\", use this method. Some males evolved ornamentation including binding the female with silk, having proportionally longer legs, modifying the female's web, mating while the female is feeding, or providing a nuptial gift in response to sexual cannibalism. Male body size is not under selection due to cannibalism in all spider species such as \"Nephila pilipes\", but is more prominently selected for in less dimorphic species of spiders, which often selects for larger male size.\n\nRay finned fish are an ancient and diverse class, with the widest degree of sexual dimorphism of any Animal class. Fairbairn notes that \"females are generally larger than males but males are often larger in species with male-male combat or male paternal care ... [sizes range] from dwarf males to males more than 12 times heavier than females\"\n\nThere are cases where males are substantially larger than females. An example is \"Lamprologus callipterus\", a type of cichlid fish. In this fish, the males are characterized as being up to 60 times larger than the females. The male's increased size is believed to be advantageous because males collect and defend empty snail shells in each of which a female breeds. Males must be larger and more powerful in order to collect the largest shells. The female's body size must remain small because in order for her to breed, she must lay her eggs inside the empty shells. If she grows too large, she will not fit in the shells and will be unable to breed. Another example is the dragonet, in which males are considerably larger than females and possess longer fins.\n\nThe female's small body size is also likely beneficial to her chances of finding an unoccupied shell. Larger shells, although preferred by females, are often limited in availability. Hence, the female is limited to the growth of the size of the shell and may actually change her growth rate according to shell size availability. In other words, the male's ability to collect large shells depends on his size. The larger the male, the larger the shells he is able to collect. This then allows for females to be larger in his brooding nest which makes the difference between the sizes of the sexes less substantial. Male-male competition in this fish species also selects for large size in males. There is aggressive competition by males over territory and access to larger shells. Large males win fights and steal shells from competitors. Sexual dimorphism also occurs in hermaphroditic fish. These species are known as sequential hermaphrodites. In fish, reproductive histories often include the sex-change from female to male where there is a strong connection between growth, the sex of an individual, and the mating system it operates within. In protogynous mating systems where males dominate mating with many females, size plays a significant role in male reproductive success. Males have a propensity to be larger than females of a comparable age but it is unclear whether the size increase is due to a growth spurt at the time of the sexual transition or due to the history of faster growth in sex changing individuals. Larger males are able to stifle the growth of females and control environmental resources.\n\nSocial organization plays a large role in the changing of sex by the fish. It is often seen that a fish will change its sex when there is a lack of dominant male within the social hierarchy. The females that change sex are often those who attain and preserve an initial size advantage early in life. In either case, females which change sex to males are larger and often prove to be a good example of dimorphism.\n\nIn other cases with fish, males will go through noticeable changes in body size, and females will go through morphological changes that can only be seen inside of the body. For example, in sockeye salmon, males develop larger body size at maturity, including an increase in body depth, hump height, and snout length. Females experience minor changes in snout length, but the most noticeable difference is the huge increase in gonad size, which accounts for about 25% of body mass.\n\nSexual selection was observed for female ornamentation in \"Gobiusculus flavescens\", known as two-spotted gobies. Traditional hypotheses suggest that male-male competition drives selection. However, selection for ornamentation within this species suggests that showy female traits can be selected through either female-female competition or male mate choice. Since carotenoid-based ornamentation suggests mate quality, female two-spotted guppies that develop colorful orange bellies during the breeding season are considered favorable to males. The males invest heavily in offspring during the incubation, which leads to the sexual preference in colorful females due to higher egg quality.\n\nIn amphibians and reptiles, the degree of sexual dimorphism varies widely among taxonomic groups. The sexual dimorphism in amphibians and reptiles may be reflected in any of the following: anatomy; relative length of tail; relative size of head; overall size as in many species of vipers and lizards; coloration as in many amphibians, snakes, and lizards, as well as in some turtles; an ornament as in many newts and lizards; the presence of specific sex-related behaviour is common to many lizards; and vocal qualities which are frequently observed in frogs.\n\nAnole lizards show prominent size dimorphism with males typically being significantly larger than females. For instance, the average male \"Anolis sagrei\" was 53.4 mm vs. 40 mm in females. Different sizes of the heads in anoles have been explained by differences in the estrogen pathway. The sexual dimorphism in lizards is generally attributed to the effects of sexual selection, but other mechanisms including ecological divergence and fecundity selection provide alternative explanations. The development of color dimorphism in lizards is induced by hormonal changes at the onset of sexual maturity, as seen in Psamodromus algirus, Sceloporus gadoviae, and S. undulates erythrocheilus.\n\nMale painted dragon lizards, \"Ctenophorus pictus\". are brightly conspicuous in their breeding coloration, but male color declines with aging. Male coloration appears to reflect innate anti-oxidation capacity that protects against oxidative DNA damage. Male breeding coloration is likely an indicator to females of the underlying level of oxidative DNA damage (a significant component of aging) in potential mates.\n\nSexual dimorphism in birds can be manifested in size or plumage differences between the sexes. Sexual size dimorphism varies among taxa with males typically being larger, though this is not always the case, e.g. birds of prey, hummingbirds, and some species of flightless birds. Plumage dimorphism, in the form of ornamentation or coloration, also varies, though males are typically the more ornamented or brightly colored sex. Such differences have been attributed to the unequal reproductive contributions of the sexes. This difference produces a stronger female choice since they have more risk in producing offspring. In some species, the male's contribution to reproduction ends at copulation, while in other species the male becomes the main caregiver. Plumage polymorphisms have evolved to reflect these differences and other measures of reproductive fitness, such as body condition or survival. The male phenotype sends signals to females who then choose the 'fittest' available male.\n\nSexual dimorphism is a product of both genetics and environmental factors. An example of sexual polymorphism determined by environmental conditions exists in the red-backed fairywren. Red-backed fairywren males can be classified into three categories during breeding season: black breeders, brown breeders, and brown auxiliaries. These differences arise in response to the bird's body condition: if they are healthy they will produce more androgens thus becoming black breeders, while less healthy birds produce less androgens and become brown auxiliaries. The reproductive success of the male is thus determined by his success during each year's non-breeding season, causing reproductive success to vary with each year's environmental conditions.\n\nMigratory patterns and behaviors also influence sexual dimorphisms. This aspect also stems back to the size dimorphism in species. It has been shown that the larger males are better at coping with the difficulties of migration and thusly are more successful in reproducing when reaching the breeding destination. When viewing this in an evolutionary standpoint many theories and explanations come to consideration. If these are the result for every migration and breeding season the expected results should be a shift towards a larger male population through sexual selection. Sexual selection is strong when the factor of environmental selection is also introduced. The environmental selection may support a smaller chick size if those chicks were born in an area that allowed them to grow to a larger size, even though under normal conditions they would not be able to reach this optimal size for migration. When the environment gives advantages and disadvantages of this sort, the strength of selection is weakened and the environmental forces are given greater morphological weight. The sexual dimorphism could also produce a change in timing of migration leading to differences in mating success within the bird population. When the dimorphism produces that large of a variation between the sexes and between the members of the sexes multiple evolutionary effects can take place. This timing could even lead to a speciation phenomenon if the variation becomes strongly drastic and favorable towards two different outcomes.\n\nSexual dimorphism is maintained by the counteracting pressures of natural selection and sexual selection. For example, sexual dimorphism in coloration increases the vulnerability of bird species to predation by European sparrowhawks in Denmark. Presumably, increased sexual dimorphism means males are brighter and more conspicuous, leading to increased predation. Moreover, the production of more exaggerated ornaments in males may come at the cost of suppressed immune function. So long as the reproductive benefits of the trait due to sexual selection are greater than the costs imposed by natural selection, then the trait will propagate throughout the population. Reproductive benefits arise in the form of a larger number of offspring, while natural selection imposes costs in the form of reduced survival. This means that even if the trait causes males to die earlier, the trait is still beneficial so long as males with the trait produce more offspring than males lacking the trait. This balance keeps the dimorphism alive in these species and ensures that the next generation of successful males will also display these traits that are attractive to the females.\n\nSuch differences in form and reproductive roles often cause differences in behavior. As previously stated, males and females often have different roles in reproduction. The courtship and mating behavior of males and females are regulated largely by hormones throughout a bird's lifetime. Activational hormones occur during puberty and adulthood and serve to 'activate' certain behaviors when appropriate, such as territoriality during breeding season. Organizational hormones occur only during a critical period early in development, either just before or just after hatching in most birds, and determine patterns of behavior for the rest of the bird's life. Such behavioral differences can cause disproportionate sensitivities to anthropogenic pressures. Females of the whinchat in Switzerland breed in intensely managed grasslands. Earlier harvesting of the grasses during the breeding season lead to more female deaths. Populations of many birds are often male-skewed and when sexual differences in behavior increase this ratio, populations decline at a more rapid rate. Also not all male dimorphic traits are due to hormones like testosterone, instead they are a naturally occurring part of development, for example plumage.\n\nSexual dimorphism may also influence differences in parental investment during times of food scarcity. For example, in the blue-footed booby, the female chicks grow faster than the males, resulting in booby parents producing the smaller sex, the males, during times of food shortage. This then results in the maximization of parental lifetime reproductive success.\n\nSexual dimorphism may also only appear during mating season, some species of birds only show dimorphic traits in seasonal variation. The males of these species will molt into a less bright or less exaggerated color during the off breeding season. This occurs because the species is more focused on survival than reproduction, causing a shift into a less ornate state. \n\nConsequently, sexual dimorphism has important ramifications for conservation. However, sexual dimorphism is not only found in birds and is thus important to the conservation of many animals. Such differences in form and behavior can lead to sexual segregation, defined as sex differences in space and resource use. Most sexual segregation research has been done on ungulates, but such research extends to bats, kangaroos, and birds. Sex-specific conservation plans have even been suggested for species with pronounced sexual segregation.\n\nThe term sesquimorphism (the Latin numeral prefix \"sesqui\"- means one-and-one-half, so halfway between \"mono\"- (one) and \"di\"- (two)) has been proposed for bird species in which \"both sexes have basically the same plumage pattern, though the female is clearly distinguishable by reason of her paler or washed-out Examples include Cape sparrow (\"Passer melanurus\"), rufous sparrow (subspecies \"P. motinensis motinensis\"), and saxaul sparrow (\"P. ammodendri\").\n\nIn a large proportion of mammal species, males are larger than females. Just like in birds, the brains of many mammals, including humans, are significantly different for males and females of the species. Both genes and hormones affect the formation of many animal brains before \"birth\" (or hatching), and also behaviour of adult individuals. Hormones significantly affect human brain formation, and also brain development at puberty. A 2004 review in \"Nature Reviews Neuroscience\" observed that \"because it is easier to manipulate hormone levels than the expression of sex chromosome genes, the effects of hormones have been studied much more extensively, and are much better understood, than the direct actions in the brain of sex chromosome genes.\" It concluded that while \"the differentiating effects of gonadal secretions seem to be dominant,\" the existing body of research \"support the idea that sex differences in neural expression of X and Y genes significantly contribute to sex differences in brain functions and disease.\"\n\nMarine mammals show some of the greatest sexual size differences of mammals, because of sexual selection. The mating system of pinnipeds varies from polygyny to serial monogamy. Pinnipeds are known for early differential growth and maternal investment since the only nutrients for newborn pups is the milk provided by the mother. For example, the males are significantly larger than the females at birth in sea lion pups. The pattern of differential investment can be varied principally prenatally and post-natally. \"Mirounga leonina\", the southern elephant seal, is one of the most dimorphic mammals.\n\nSexual dimorphism in elephant seals is associated with the ability of a male to defend territories, which correlates with polygynic behavior. The large sexual size dimorphism is due to sexual selection, but also because females reach reproductive age much earlier than males. In addition the males do not provide parental care for the young and allocate more energy to growth. This is supported by the secondary growth spurt in males during adolescent years.\n\nIn humans, biological sex is determined by five factors present at birth: the presence or absence of a Y chromosome, the type of gonads, the sex hormones, the internal reproductive anatomy (such as the uterus in females), and the external genitalia. Generally, the five factors are either all male or all female. Sexual ambiguity is rare in humans, but wherein such ambiguity does occur, the individual is biologically classified as intersex.\n\nSexual dimorphism among humans includes differentiation among gonads, internal genitals, external genitals, breasts, muscle mass, height, the endocrine (hormonal) systems and their physiological and behavioral effects. Human sexual differentiation is effected primarily at the gene level, by the presence or absence of a Y-chromosome, which encodes biochemical modifiers for sexual development in males. According to Clark Spencer Larsen, modern day \"Homo sapiens\" show a range of sexual dimorphism, with average body mass difference between the sexes being roughly equal to 15%.\n\nThe average basal metabolic rate is about 6 percent higher in adolescent males than females and increases to about 10 percent higher after puberty. Females tend to convert more food into fat, while males convert more into muscle and expendable circulating energy reserves. Aggregated data of absolute strength indicates that females have, on average, 40–60% the upper body strength of males, and 70–75% the lower body strength. The difference in strength relative to body mass is less pronounced in trained individuals. In Olympic weightlifting, male records vary from 5.5× body mass in the lowest weight category to 4.2× in the highest weight category, while female records vary from 4.4× to 3.8×, a weight adjusted difference of only 10–20%, and an absolute difference of about 30% (i.e. 472 kg vs 333 kg for unlimited weight classes)(see Olympic weightlifting records). A study, carried about by analyzing annual world rankings from 1980–1996, found that males' running times were, on average, 11% faster than females'.\n\nFemales are taller, on average, than males in early adolescence, but males, on average, surpass them in height in later adolescence and adulthood. In the United States, adult males are, on average, 9% taller and 16.5% heavier than adult females. There is no comparative evidence of differing levels of sexual selection having produced sexual size dimorphism between human populations.\n\nMales typically have larger tracheae and branching bronchi, with about 30 percent greater lung volume per body mass. On average, males have larger hearts, 10 percent higher red blood cell count, higher hemoglobin, hence greater oxygen-carrying capacity. They also have higher circulating clotting factors (vitamin K, prothrombin and platelets). These differences lead to faster healing of wounds and higher peripheral pain tolerance.\n\nFemales typically have more white blood cells (stored and circulating), more granulocytes and B and T lymphocytes. Additionally, they produce more antibodies at a faster rate than males. Hence they develop fewer infectious diseases and succumb for shorter periods. Ethologists argue that females, interacting with other females and multiple offspring in social groups, have experienced such traits as a selective advantage.\n\nConsiderable discussion in academic literature concerns potential evolutionary advantages associated with sexual competition (both intrasexual and intersexual) and short- and long-term sexual strategies. According to Daly and Wilson, \"The sexes differ more in human beings than in monogamous mammals, but much less than in extremely polygamous mammals.\" One proposed explanation is that human sexuality has developed more in common with its close relative the bonobo, who have similar sexual dimorphism and which are polygynandrous and use recreational sex to reinforce social bonds and reduce aggression.\n\nIn the human brain, a difference between sexes was observed in the transcription of the PCDH11X/Y gene pair unique to \"Homo sapiens\". Sexual differentiation in the human brain from the undifferentiated state is triggered by testosterone from the fetal testis. Testosterone is converted to estrogen in the brain through the action of the enzyme aromatase. Testosterone acts on many brain areas, including the SDN-POA, to create the masculinized brain pattern. Brains of pregnant females carrying male fetuses may be shielded from the masculinizing effects of androgen through the action of sex-hormone binding globulin.\n\nThe relationship between sex differences in the brain and human behavior is a subject of controversy in psychology and society at large. Many females tend to have a higher ratio of gray matter in the left hemisphere of the brain in comparison to males. Males on average have larger brains than females; however, when adjusted for total brain volume the gray matter differences between sexes is almost nonexistent. Thus, the percentage of gray matter appears to be more related to brain size than it is to sex. Differences in brain physiology between sexes do not necessarily relate to differences in intellect. Haier \"et al.\" found in a 2004 study that \"men and women apparently achieve similar IQ results with different brain regions, suggesting that there is no singular underlying neuroanatomical structure to general intelligence and that different types of brain designs may manifest equivalent intellectual performance\". (See the sex and intelligence article for more on this subject.) Strict graph-theoretical analysis of the human brain connections revealed that in numerous graph-theoretical parameters (e.g., minimum bipartition width, edge number, the expander graph property, minimum vertex cover), the structural connectome of women are significantly \"better\" connected than the connectome of men. It was shown that the graph-theoretical differences are due to the sex and not to the differences in the cerebral volume, by analyzing the data of 36 females and 36 males, where the brain volume of each man in the group was smaller than the brain volume of each woman in the group.\n\nSexual dimorphism was also described in the gene level and shown to be extend from the sex chromosomes. Overall, about 6500 genes have been found to have sex-differential expression in at least one tissue. Many of these genes are not directly associated with reproduction, but rather linked to more general biological features. In addition, it has been shown that genes with sex specific expression undergo reduced selection efficiency, which lead to higher population frequencies of deleterious mutations and contributing to the prevalence of several human diseases\n\nPhenotypic differences between sexes are evident even in cultured cells from tissues. For example, female muscle-derived stem cells have a better muscle regeneration efficiency than male ones. There are reports of several metabolic differences between male and female cells and they also respond to stress differently.\n\nIn theory, larger females are favored by competition for mates, especially in polygamous species. Larger females offer an advantage in fertility, since the physiological demands of reproduction are limiting in females. Hence there is a theoretical expectation that females tend to be larger in species that are monogamous.\nFemales are larger in many species of insects, many spiders, many fish, many reptiles, owls, birds of prey and certain mammals such as the spotted hyena, and baleen whales such as blue whale. As an example, in some species, females are sedentary, and so males must search for them. Fritz Vollrath and Geoff Parker argue that this difference in behaviour leads to radically different selection pressures on the two sexes, evidently favouring smaller males. Cases where the male is larger than the female have been studied as well, and require alternative explanations.\n\nOne example of this type of sexual size dimorphism is the bat \"Myotis nigricans\", (black myotis bat) where females are substantially larger than males in terms of body weight, skull measurement, and forearm length. The interaction between the sexes and the energy needed to produce viable offspring make it favorable for females to be larger in this species. Females bear the energetic cost of producing eggs, which is much greater than the cost of making sperm by the males. The fecundity advantage hypothesis states that a larger female is able to produce more offspring and give them more favorable conditions to ensure their survival; this is true for most ectotherms. A larger female can provide parental care for a longer time while the offspring matures. The gestation and lactation periods are fairly long in \"M. nigricans\", the females suckling their offspring until they reach nearly adult size. They would not be able to fly and catch prey if they did not compensate for the additional mass of the offspring during this time. Smaller male size may be an adaptation to increase maneuverability and agility, allowing males to compete better with females for food and other resources.\n\nSome species of anglerfish also display extreme sexual dimorphism. Females are more typical in appearance to other fish, whereas the males are tiny rudimentary creatures with stunted digestive systems. A male must find a female and fuse with her: he then lives parasitically, becoming little more than a sperm-producing body in what amounts to an effectively hermaphrodite composite organism. A similar situation is found in the Zeus water bug \"Phoreticovelia disparata\" where the female has a glandular area on her back that can serve to feed a male, which clings to her (note that although males can survive away from females, they generally are not free-living). This is taken to the logical extreme in the Rhizocephala crustaceans, like the Sacculina, where the male injects itself into the female's body and becomes nothing more than sperm producing cells, to the point that the superorder used to be mistaken for hermaphroditic.\n\nSome plant species also exhibit dimorphism in which the females are significantly larger than the males, such as in the moss \"Dicranum\" and the liverwort \"Sphaerocarpos\". There is some evidence that, in these genera, the dimorphism may be tied to a sex chromosome, or to chemical signalling from females.\n\nAnother complicated example of sexual dimorphism is in \"Vespula squamosa\", the southern yellowjacket. In this wasp species, the female workers are the smallest, the male workers are slightly larger, and the female queens are significantly larger than her female worker and male counterparts.\n\nSexual dimorphism by size is evident in some extinct species such as the velociraptor. In the case of velociraptors the sexual size dimorphism may have been caused by two factors: male competition for hunting ground to attract mates, and/or female competition for nesting locations and mates, males being a scarce breeding resource.\n\nIn 1871, Charles Darwin advanced the theory of sexual selection, which related sexual dimorphism with sexual selection.\n\nIt has been proposed that the earliest sexual dimorphism is the size differentiation of sperm and eggs (anisogamy), but the evolutionary significance of sexual dimorphism is more complex than that would suggest. Anisogamy and the usually large number of small male gametes relative to the larger female gametes usually lies in the development of strong sperm competition, because small sperm enable organisms to produce a large number of sperm, and make males (or male function of hermaphrodites) more redundant. This intensifies male competition for mates and promotes the evolution of other sexual dimorphism in many species, especially in vertebrates including mammals. However, in some species, the females can be larger than males, irrespective of gametes, and in some species females (usually of species in which males invest a lot in rearing offspring and thus no longer considered as so redundant) compete for mates in ways more usually associated with males.\n\nIn many non-monogamous species, the benefit to a male's reproductive fitness of mating with multiple females is large, whereas the benefit to a female's reproductive fitness of mating with multiple males is small or nonexistent. In these species, there is a selection pressure for whatever traits enable a male to have more matings. The male may therefore come to have different traits from the female.\nThese traits could be ones that allow him to fight off other males for control of territory or a harem, such as large size or weapons; or they could be traits that females, for whatever reason, prefer in mates. Male-male competition poses no deep theoretical questions but mate choice does.\n\nFemales may choose males that appear strong and healthy, thus likely to possess \"good alleles\" and give rise to healthy offspring. In some species, however, females seem to choose males with traits that do not improve offspring survival rates, and even traits that reduce it (potentially leading to traits like the peacock's tail). Two hypotheses for explaining this fact are the sexy son hypothesis and the handicap principle.\n\nThe sexy son hypothesis states that females may initially choose a trait because it improves the survival of their young, but once this preference has become widespread, females must continue to choose the trait, even if it becomes harmful. Those that do not will have sons that are unattractive to most females (since the preference is widespread) and so receive few matings.\n\nThe handicap principle states that a male who survives despite possessing some sort of handicap thus proves that the rest of his genes are \"good alleles\". If males with \"bad alleles\" could not survive the handicap, females may evolve to choose males with this sort of handicap; the trait is acting as a hard-to-fake signal of fitness.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20092265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20092265", "title": "Small penis rule", "text": "Small penis rule\n\nThe small penis rule is an informal strategy used by authors to evade libel lawsuits. It was described in a \"New York Times\" article in 1998:\n\nThe small penis rule was referenced in a 2006 dispute between Michael Crowley and Michael Crichton. Crowley alleged that after he wrote an unflattering review of Crichton's novel \"State of Fear\", Crichton included a character named \"Mick Crowley\" in the novel \"Next\". The character is a child rapist, described as being a Washington, D.C.-based journalist and Yale graduate with a small penis.\n\n"}
{"id": "15806414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15806414", "title": "Social impact of YouTube", "text": "Social impact of YouTube\n\nThe YouTube video hosting service constitutes a social networking website on which practically any individual or organization with Internet access can upload videos that can be seen almost immediately by wide audiences. As the world's largest video platform, YouTube has had impact in many fields, with some individual YouTube videos having directly shaped world events.\n\nIn his 2010 TED Talk on crowd-accelerated innovation, TED curator Chris Anderson preliminarily noted that human brains are \"uniquely wired\" to decode high-bandwidth video, and that unlike written text, face-to-face communication of the type that online videos convey has been \"fine-tuned by millions of years of evolution.\" Referring to several YouTube contributors, Anderson asserted that \"what Gutenberg did for writing, online video can now do for face-to-face communication,\" that it's not far-fetched to say that online video will dramatically accelerate scientific advance, and that video contributors may be about to launch \"the biggest learning cycle in human history.\"\n\nKhan Academy founder Salman Khan, a former hedge fund analyst, grew YouTube video tutoring sessions for his cousin in 2006 into what \"Forbes\"' Michael Noer called \"the largest school in the world\"—a non-profit with ten million students and a reported $7 million annual operating budget (2012). By the end of 2013, Khan Academy's network of YouTube channels grew to 26,000 no-fee videos that collectively had been viewed 372 million times. Noer reasoned that technology had finally become poised to disrupt how people learn, given the advent of widespread broadband, low costs to create and distribute content, rapidly proliferating mobile devices, a shift in social norms to accept the efficacy of online learning and a generation of tech-savvy people willing to embrace it, with students watching lectures and working on their own schedule at their own pace.\n\nCertain public school systems, non-profits, and charter schools use YouTube videos of outstanding educators in the training and professional development of teachers.\n\nAbout 2,500 TED video lectures—delivery of which having been described by technology journalist Steven Levy as \"an aspirational peak for the thinking set\"—have collectively been viewed almost 250 million times on YouTube's \"TEDtalksDirector\" channel's network.\n\nAt a more micro level, individuals use YouTube to carry \"how to\" videos sharing their knowledge in areas such as cosmetics, and companies such as Ford Models use \"how-to\" videos to build their brands.\n\nStudies by public health researchers have expressed concern about the impact of healthcare information available on YouTube, citing the potential harm to patients if inaccurate or dubious claims are presented as facts.\n\nBeyond being what a Forrester Research analyst characterized as the largest video \"platform\" on the globe, as of January 2012 YouTube was also the world's second most popular search engine. However, YouTube keyword searches are confined to metadata—video titles and labels—rather than the video content itself.\n\nIn the year following YouTube's 2005 launch, some early video creators gained large viewing audiences, while others created small, tight communities among mutual watchers. In 2010 TED curator Chris Anderson described a phenomenon by which geographically distributed individuals in a certain field share their independently developed skills in YouTube videos, thus challenging others to improve their own skills, and spurring invention and evolution in that field. \"Legion of Extraordinary Dancers\" producer Jon M. Chu described \"a whole global laboratory online\" in which \"kids in Japan are taking moves from a YouTube video created in Detroit, building on it within days and releasing a new video, while teenagers in California are taking the Japanese video and remixing it with a Philly flair to create a whole new dance style in itself.\" Such fields include dance and music, with Chu saying the Internet was causing dance to evolve, and journalist Virginia Heffernan calling certain music videos \"a portal into a worldwide microculture\".\n\nOriginally posted anonymously by a guitarist seeking suggestions on his playing, a 2005 YouTube cover of the \"Canon Rock\" adaptation of Pachelbel's Canon received millions of views and spawned hundreds of imitators in \"a process of influence, imitation and inspiration\". Journalist Virginia Heffernan asserted in \"The New York Times\" that such videos have \"surprising implications\" not only for YouTube, but also for the dissemination of culture and even the future of classical music.\n\nYouTube has provided inventors an audience for market testing their concepts, and a platform—albeit an inherently profitless one—for disseminating innovations more quickly and more widely than writing papers or speaking at conferences. Collaborative \"meetings\", a global online equivalent of the Homebrew Computer Club, take place virtually, via video.\n\nThree years after Google purchased YouTube and larger production companies had begun to dominate, a \"New York Times Magazine\" journalist said the website was \"still incubating novel forms of creative expression and cultivating new audiences\" as amateurs continued to create \"microgenres\" serving niche audiences, collectively creating what she described as an \"art scene\".\n\nIn projects such as the YouTube Symphony Orchestra and \"The Legion of Extraordinary Dancers,\" geographically distributed artists were selected based on their individual online video auditions, and assembled on the same stage to perform, respectively, at Carnegie Hall (2009) and at the Academy Awards ceremonies (2010).\n\nA further step is to mix geographically distributed performances into a single work, without the performers ever physically meeting each other. Like-minded or compatibly talented individuals have used Internet communication to overcome geographic separation to create crowdsourced YouTube videos to encourage donations, such as Lisa Lavie's 57-contributor charity collaboration video \"We Are the World 25 for Haiti (YouTube edition)\" to benefit victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake. \"The Tokyo Times\" noted J Rice's \"We Pray for You\" YouTube video, benefitting victims of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, as an example of a trend to use such crowdsourcing for charitable purposes.\n\nThe 2011 film \"Life in a Day,\" a feature-length YouTube-partnered documentary comprising scenes selected from 4,500 hours of amateur video footage from 80,000 submitters, was the first crowdsourced, user-generated film to be shown in cinemas. Director Kevin Macdonald explained that the film \"wouldn't have been possible pre-Internet, specifically pre-YouTube\".\n\nThe anti-bullying It Gets Better Project expanded from a single YouTube video directed to discouraged or suicidal LGBT teens. Within weeks, hundreds of \"It Gets Better\" response videos were uploaded to the project by people of various levels of celebrity, and, with two months, by U.S. President Barack Obama, White House staff, and several cabinet secretaries. In addition to \"flashcard\" testimonials by bullying victims and adults' encouragement videos, anti-bullying PSAs have taken the form of YouTube music videos; parenting author Rosalind Wiseman said the creators of one such video, Ahmir's YouTube cover of \"Perfect\", could \"tell (the so-called experts) how it's done.\"\n\nFifteen-year-old Amanda Todd's video, titled \"My story: Struggling, bullying, suicide, self harm\" and posted to YouTube the month before her suicide, became what the \"National Post\" called an \"international sensation\" after her death. The resulting extensive media coverage was controversial: though psychologists say there is value in airing related mental health questions, certain headline-grabbing coverage is thought by some possibly to inspire \"clusters\" of additional suicides. In addition to strong public reaction, legislative action was undertaken almost immediately to study the prevalence of bullying and form a national anti-bullying strategy.\n\nYouTube personalities have used their celebrity status for charitable purposes, such as Tyler Oakley's outspoken support of and raising of tens of thousands of dollars for The Trevor Project, an organization for crisis and suicide prevention for LGBTQ youth.\n\nThe 2006 \"Bus Uncle\" video, recording a man's tirade against a fellow Hong Kong bus passenger who had asked him to speak more quietly on his cellphone, inspired a significant amount of social and cultural analysis. Local experts characterized the video as \"catching the collective emotional pulse\" of a crowded and stressful city in which people don't normally say how they feel.\n\nYouTube was included in \"Entertainment Weekly's\" \"100 Greatest\" list in 2009—though with the ironic praise, \"a safe home for piano-playing cats, celeb goof-ups, and overzealous lip-synchers since 2005\". In 2010, citing YouTube's then most viewed video \"Charlie Bit My Finger\" as an example of viewers not choosing what might have traditionally been judged \"quality\", \"Advertising Age\" journalist Michael Learmonth asserted that for information and entertainment the Internet had both killed and redefined the concept of quality. Learmonth reasoned that online journalism, being based on \"greatly diminished economics and expectations\", is intrinsically inaccurate and a de-professionalized version of offline journalism. In this vein, GroupM's CEO was quoted as saying there seemed to be a bigger premium on popularity than authority. Concerning these phenomena, the CEO of Associated Content (now Yahoo! Voices) said that people are increasingly comfortable receiving information from unfamiliar sources, and that quality had come to revolve around properly timed usefulness rather than being decided by professionals. Conversely, in 2012 the head of YouTube's programming strategy Ben Relles was quoted as saying that most viral videos were scripted productions that did not go viral serendipitously, and that \"the poetics of YouTube favor authenticity over production values.\"\n\nIn 2008, cultural anthropologist Michael Wesch observed that both YouTube vloggers and their viewers can experience a profound sense of connection, the distance and anonymity between them enabling them to avoid the constraining effect of conventional social norms (such as not staring at people). This sense of connection is said to occur in an era of \"cultural inversion\" in which we are driven to express our individualism and independence, yet still value community and relationships. \n\nIn 2011, Willow Scobie asserted the anthropological significance of YouTube and noted evidence of a \"transformative experience\" for some people, and that some could actually identify as being a \"YouTuber\".\n\nVideos that frighten or excite children were found to receive the most views, often because of algorithm-driven demand measurement and automated editorial oversight, automated oversight that is thought to be inadequately effective and easy to avoid. Very young children tend to watch the same video many times and were thus found to be particular vulnerable, including to videos with bizarre, sexual, scatological or violent content. Some YouTube content creators have used the website's algorithm to gain more views at the cost of endangering viewers' physical safety, such as the Tide Pod challenge Internet meme that dared teenagers to consume pods containing the laundry detergent.\n\nA Pew Research Center study found that a new kind of \"visual journalism\" had developed, in which citizen eyewitnesses and established news organizations share in content creation. The study found that while 51% of the most watched YouTube news videos were produced by news organizations, 39% of the news pieces originally produced by a news organization were posted by users. Pew's deputy director observed that news reporting on YouTube was opening up the flow of information and forging new areas of cooperation and dialogue between citizens and news outlets. Though YouTube executives denied the company itself intends to get into content creation, YouTube's news manager described it as a \"catalyst\" for creating new original content by developing partnerships with news organizations, the Pew Research study concluding that the website was \"becoming an important platform by which people acquire news.\"\n\nIndependent or alternative news organizations, such as Baltimore-based The Real News, Qatar-based Al Jazeera English, or Russian Rain TV have established channels on YouTube that allow a wider audience than traditional broadcast television.\n\nIn July–August 2012, YouTube provided the first live-stream coverage of the events in the Summer Olympic Games. In August 2012 YouTube formed its \"Elections Hub\" that streamed speeches from American national political party conventions and featured content from eight major news organizations.\n\nThe YouTube video \"Innocence of Muslims\" (2012), produced privately within the United States, was interpreted by some Muslims as blasphemous in its mocking of Muhammad, and spurred protests and related anti-American violence internationally despite official condemnation of the video by U.S. government officials.\n\nA cellphone camera video showing the 2009 death of Iranian student Neda Agha-Soltan during the 2009–10 Iranian election protests received a George Polk Award in journalism, the first bestowed to an anonymous work. The video became a symbol of the Iranian opposition movement, the Polk Award's curator saying that the video \"became such an important news element in and of itself\". The award panel said it wanted to acknowledge the role of ordinary citizens, especially in scenarios in which professional reporters are restricted.\n\nVideos of al-Qaeda militant Anwar al-Awlaki, including some urging attacks against the United States, were posted to YouTube. Though YouTube removed those videos that incited terrorism in response to appeals from U.S. Congressmen, it is thought that Awlaki's videos were in part responsible for inspiring certain viewers to violent acts.\n\nA United Arab Emirates (UAE) court in 2013 sentenced eight individuals to as much as one year imprisonment for uploading a mock documentary YouTube video spoofing a supposed \"gangsta culture\" of UAE teens, but portraying the teens as mild-mannered, for example, throwing sandals as weapons. The government said the individuals \"defamed the UAE society's image abroad\" and cited a 2012 UAE cybercrimes law prohibiting use of information technology in a way \"liable to endanger state security.\" The imprisonments provoked criticism from the Emirates Centre for Human Rights, which asserted the case exposed the country's problems with due legal process and restrictive Internet laws. \n\n\"Propaganda operatives\" from terrorist organization Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (IS, Daesh or ISIS) published propaganda and recruiting videos on YouTube, causing law enforcement agencies to work closely with social media companies to take countermeasures, including quickly removing gruesome content or violations of anti-terror laws, and suspending user accounts. A number of government agencies have been granted YouTube \"trusted flagger\" status to prioritize the agencies' reporting of dangerous or illegal content. Faced with these anti-terrorist countermeasures, one propaganda operative acknowledged in September 2014 that his followers' online efforts were \"a disaster.\"\n\nIn at least the CNN/YouTube presidential debates (2007) and the NBC News YouTube Democratic candidates debate (2016), ordinary people and prominent YouTubers submitted questions to U.S. presidential candidates via YouTube video. Remarking that YouTube \"put power in the hands of the camera holder\", \"New York Times\" journalist Katharine Q. Seelye noted that because visual images can be more powerful than written words, videos have the potential to elicit emotional responses from the candidates and frame the election in new ways. Quoting a techPresident co-founder as saying that Internet video was changing the political landscape, Seelye wrote that most U.S. presidential campaigns were now fully engaged with video, with seven of the sixteen 2008 presidential candidates announcing their campaigns on YouTube. Campaigns allowed their videos to be embedded, critiqued, and recut per YouTube's technical features, thus surrendering control over the context of their videos. Though YouTube had first been presented as a way for campaigns to engage youthful voters, the videos were said soon after the 2008 election to have profoundly affected popular perception across other demographics and had become more important than direct mail.\n\nThough television advertising still dominated how 2012 U.S. political campaigns initially reached voters—with only about 10% of advertising budgets being directed at the Internet—the YouTube platform provided quick communication and engaged people in a \"one-click\" approach to actively participate by volunteering, sharing content or pledging financial support. The director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution said that individuals' sharing videos through trusted networks adds credibility over conventional direct ads.\n\nVarious government entities, such as the U.S. Congress and the Vatican in early 2009, began to use YouTube to directly disseminate information by video. The White House's official YouTube channel was found in 2012 to be the seventh top news organization producer on YouTube. Barack Obama's U.S. presidency, the first to begin (2009) after YouTube gained popularity, was quickly noted for its \"overall virtuosity on the visual Internet\" and \"nonstop cinematography\".\n\nParadoxically, the burgeoning presence of digital media did not coarsen public figures' behavior, but instead by 2009 appeared to have induced a cautious reserve attributed to a mindful avoidance of possible mockery by video parodists; \"avoiding a YouTube moment\" had become part of the political vernacular before the website's tenth birthday (2015). Whereas politicians became more known and accessible than a decade previously, politicians also learned to by-pass undesirable questions from traditional media by using self-produced videos to communicate with the electorate directly. Extensive advance vetting of politicians' public utterances led \"The Washington Post's\" Chris Cillizza to assert in 2015 that \"spontaneity in politics has been killed—or at least mortally wounded—by YouTube.\"\n\nIn November 2013, a video, \"There is a Way Forward\", was posted to the YouTube channel of Iranian foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif as part of an apparent attempt to \"set the tone and context\" of ensuing nuclear power limitation negotiations between Iran and six world powers. Zarif's video was said to be part of an attempt to reach the West, as Iran itself had blocked Iranian residents' YouTube access.\nIn February 2014, U.S. President Obama held a meeting at the White House with prominent YouTube content creators. Though promoting awareness of the Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\") was a main topic, the meeting more generally concerned ways in which government could connect with the younger \"YouTube Generation\". Whereas YouTube's inherent ability to allow presidents to directly connect with average citizens was noted, the YouTube content creators' new media savvy was perceived necessary to better cope with the website's distracting content and fickle audience. The White House meeting followed a healthcare exchange's December 2013 social media campaign to encourage young adults to obtain Obamacare-compliant health insurance, the campaign including Obama impersonator Iman Crosson's YouTube music video spoof. Obama followed in January 2015 by arranging to be interviewed by three of the most popular YouTube content creators in what a White House spokesman described as \"an effort to engage as many Americans as possible in various venues\".\n\nVideo public service announcements, such as those promoting water conservation, have been produced both by governmental entities and in school competitions.\n\nInstitutions, including old-line law firms, use video to attract new talent in members of what is called the \"YouTube generation\"—creating videos and websites having the look and feel of YouTube to persuade prospects that the firms are young-thinking. Such videos are said to express the firms' personality better than reciting traditional law firm credentials. Similarly, hundreds of U.S. and Canadian universities have a presence on YouTube, and universities such as Princeton University have used YouTube videos as a way of communicating with prospective students, including videos containing admissions officers' tips and expectations, the university's learning expectations, sample lectures, and student descriptions of campus social life. Conversely, institutions such as Tufts University invited student applicants to submit videos as part of their application package.\n\nYouTube was awarded a 2008 George Foster Peabody Award, the website being described as a Speakers' Corner that \"both embodies and promotes democracy.\" A 2012 Pew Research Center study explicitly found it noteworthy that protest was the second most popular topic on YouTube, but was not among the leading subjects on conventional network evening news. A 2017 \"New York Times Magazine\" article posited that YouTube had become \"the new talk radio\" for the far right.\n\nIn the Arab Spring (2010- ), protestors uploaded videos showing protests and political commentary, with sociologist Philip N. Howard describing a \"cascade effect\" through which personal content, more so than centralized ideology, spilled over national boundaries through social networks. Howard quoted an activist's succinct description that organizing the political unrest involved \"us(ing) Facebook to schedule the protests, Twitter to coordinate, and YouTube to tell the world.\" Numerous national governments have censored or banned YouTube to limit public exposure to content that may ignite social or political unrest, to prevent violations of ethics- or morality-based law, or to block videos mocking national leaders or historical figures.\n\nWhen governments of countries such as Syria began to examine user-generated YouTube videos to identify and arrest dissidents, in 2012 YouTube provided a tool by which uploaders may blur subjects' faces to protect their identities.\n\nIn countries with more restrictive political and social environments, performers such as comedians in Saudi Arabia have found freer speech to be acceptable through their YouTube channels. Similarly, Bassem Youssef—formerly a physician who had aided the wounded in Tahrir Square during the Egyptian Revolution of 2011—was convinced to post political satire videos to YouTube, which launched a similarly themed career in Egyptian television that led to Youssef's arrest for insulting Islam and then-President Morsi and to becoming what Deutsche Welle called \"perhaps the most famous personality in the Arab world at the moment.\"\n\nYouTube served as a platform for individuals to voice their views about the parliamentary and presidential elections (2011, 2012) in Russia, in either a serious or satirical manner, one of which—the satire \"Arrest of Vladimir Putin: a report from the courtroom\"—was viewed enough times to make the list of most popular videos on YouTube for two consecutive weeks.\n\nMore than a third of the U.S. Senate introduced a bipartisan resolution condemning International Criminal Court indictee Joseph Kony 16 days after the Invisible Children, Inc.'s video \"Kony 2012\" was posted to YouTube. Resolution co-sponsor Senator Lindsey Graham said that \"this YouTube sensation ... will do more to lead to (Kony's) demise than all other action combined.\" \"Politico's\" Scott Wong described the video, with 84 million YouTube views by its 17th day, as \"the latest example of social media changing the policy debate and political dynamic on Capitol Hill.\" In 2015 \"The Washington Post's\" Caitlin Dewey posited that the video served as a social model for every subsequent online movement, and was \"the first deployment of this thing we're now calling 'emergent opinion-based social identity'.\"\n\nResearch published in September 2018 by Data & Society Research Institute reported that a collection of far-right political influencers use YouTube's recommendation engine—in concert with conventional brand-building techniques such as cross-marketing—to attract followers, and profit from monetization of engagements thus obtained. More specifically, given the tendency of YouTube's recommendation engine to suggest more radical videos, researcher Rebecca Lewis wrote that such networking \"makes it easy for audience members to be incrementally exposed to, and come to trust, ever more extremist political positions\". Ezra Klein wrote on \"Vox\" that \"this is arguably the first time we’ve seen a distinctive ideological coalition emerging atop social media platforms and under the influence of social media algorithms\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that a disproportionate share—8 of 20 in April 2012—of YouTube's most subscribed channels feature minorities, contrasting with mainstream American television, in which the stars are largely white. Such channels thus target an audience largely neglected by traditional networks, which feel pressure to appeal to a broader audience. According to the study, online media offer a way to push back against enduring stereotypes.\n\nAfter the 2010 repeal of the U.S military's Don't ask, don't tell policy, numerous coming out videos—characterized as possibly being crucial to the individuals' self-actualization and growth, and even preventing suicide—were posted to YouTube. Uploaders were able to limit viewership of their videos, which were facilitated by what a clinical psychologist characterized as a disappearance of stigma surrounding the sharing of personal information.\n\nPeople, especially the elderly, post \" project\" videos to share their life stories, and can receive feedback from viewers allowing them to expand their social contacts. This interaction is particularly beneficial to those with limited mobility.\n\nSome personal-information videos, such as those depicting uploaders' self-harm, may have a negative impact on viewers. Such videos may encourage, normalize or sensationalize self-injury, may trigger viewers to self-injury, and may reinforce harmful behavior through regular viewing.\n\nThe ability of videos to bring fame to oneself or humiliation to others, has motivated physical violence, such as the video-recorded beating of a 16-year-old Florida cheerleader by six teenage girls over a half-hour time period, causing a concussion and temporary loss of hearing and sight, generating international media attention, and inspiring the 2011 Lifetime television network movie \"Girl Fight.\"\n\nSome YouTube content creators have taken advantage of their perceived celebrity status and have abused their relationships with fans, sometimes perpetrating emotional manipulation or sexual abuse on teenagers younger than the age of consent. While, conversely, online creators have sometimes been the victims of false accounts of abuse, some \"bona fide\" victims do not report actual abuse out of victim-shaming by other fans, victims' self-blame, repression, fear of retribution, or delay in processing what had happened.\nOnline video, especially dominant player YouTube, has enabled small businesses to reach customers in ways previously accessible only to large companies that could afford television ads, and allows them to form \"brand channels\", track viewer metrics, and provide instructional videos to reduce the need for costly customer support. Large companies \"amortize\" the large cost of their Super Bowl television commercials by trying to maximize post-game video plays.\n\nYouTube has focused on developing channels rather than creating content \"per se\", the channels fragmenting the audience into niches in much the same way that decades earlier hundreds of niche-audience cable TV channels fragmented the audience previously dominated by the Big Three television networks. Based on YouTube's channel development plans, including YouTube Original Channels, journalist John Seabrook projected that \"the niches will get nichier\", with audiences being more engaged and much more quantifiable, enabling advertising to be more highly focused.\n\nIn the year following its 2005 formation, YouTube, with its display of view counts, was likened to \"a survey of cultural whims\", whose more popular artists attracted the interest of established production companies. In YouTube's first years, however, music labels had trouble gauging the commercial value of online popularity, perceiving that the Internet's \"convenience factor\" made an artist's online following less indicative of audience attachment than direct measures such as CD sales and concert attendance. By early 2013 \"Billboard\" had announced that it was factoring YouTube streaming data into calculation of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and the Hot 100 formula-based genre charts. Putting online listens on the same footing as actual song purchases to determine hits was described as reflecting \"the latest shift in power in the music industry: from record labels and radio DJs to listeners\".\n\nLater in 2013, \"Forbes\"' Katheryn Thayer noted that, though booking the right concert venues and radio and television stations once propelled artists to fame, social media activity had become \"unquestionably important\". Emphasizing the importance of the way the 2013 YouTube Music Awards determined winners—social media statistics informing nominations and social media shares determining winners—Thayer asserted that digital-era artists' work must not only be of high quality, but must elicit reactions on the YouTube platform and social media.\n\nYouTube has been used to grow audiences, both by undiscovered individual artists and by large production companies.\n\nWithin the year following YouTube's 2005 launch—which one commentator called \"the biggest jolt to Internet video\"—entertainment industry executives and casting agents were researching video sharing websites. When a video hit big it was not uncommon for its creator to hear from production companies. By June 2006, recognized Hollywood and music industry firms had begun to establish formal business ties with \"homegrown\" YouTube talent—the first believed to be comedian blogger Brooke \"Brookers\" Brodack (through Carson Daly), then singer Justin Bieber (through Usher), and physician-become-political satirist Bassem Youssef (through an Egyptian television network).\n\nOld media celebrities also moved into the website at the invitation of a YouTube management that witnessed early content creators accruing substantial followings, and perceived audience sizes potentially larger than that attainable by television. In June 2006 YouTube formed its first partnership with a major content provider, NBC, promoting its fall television lineup. In October 2006, Google paid $1.65 billion to purchase the 67-employee YouTube, seeking a lucrative marketing platform as both audiences and advertisers migrated from television to the Internet. Google made the website more business-driven, starting to overlay banner ads onto videos in August 2007. While the video platform remained available for its pioneering content creators, large production companies began to dominate.\n\nIndependent artists built grassroots followings numbering in the thousands at very little cost or effort, but mass retail and radio promotion—areas still dominated by record labels—proved problematic. Meanwhile, as early as 2006, YouTube management convinced four major music labels—who initially had been wary of the website because of its large quantity of their copyrighted material—to enter into a partnership with YouTube, convincing them that YouTube could help them make more money by connecting them with growing Internet audiences. In April 2009, YouTube and Vivendi teamed to form the Vevo music video service. Though YouTube invested $875,000 in its 2011 NextUp tips and training program for promising pioneering YouTubers, the company spent $100 million on its \"originals\" strategy to get mainstream celebrities to curate channels—hoping to benefit from both the personal fan loyalty cultivated by its pioneering content creators and the expected higher ad rates of the new celebrity channels. Paradoxically, it was the production companies eventually formed by pioneering YouTubers that created about one-third of these new \"originals\" channels.\n\nBy 2012, the CMU business editor had characterized YouTube as \"a free-to-use... promotional platform for the music labels\", and in 2013 the videos of the 2.5% of artists categorized as \"mega\", \"mainstream\" and \"mid-sized\" received 90.3% of the relevant views on YouTube and Vevo. In 2014 YouTube announced that it would block videos from labels that do not sign licensing contracts for the website's premium (paid subscription) music streaming service, in effect excluding independent record labels who have refused to sign contracts having terms inferior to those having already been agreed to by all the major labels.\n\nIn 2016, YouTube's demonetization of user videos that had \"controversial or sensitive subjects and events ... even if graphic imagery is not shown”—thereby disallowing ad revenue—angered content creators who perceived the policy as \"rampant censorship\" and inspired a #YouTubeIsOverParty hashtag on social media.\n\nEnabling a new way of earning a livelihood, YouTube's \"Partner Program\", an ad-revenue-sharing arrangement begun in 2007, grew by January 2012 to about 30,000 partners, its top five hundred partners each earning more than $100,000 annually and some earning \"much more\". Also, brands were reported in 2012 to pay six figures direct to the most popular YouTubers to create and upload ads. \"Forbes\" reported that in the year ending in June 2015, the ten highest-earning YouTube channels grossed from $2.5 million to $12 million, and that in the twelve months ending June 1, 2017 the ten highest earners grossed $127 million with the highest-earning individual channel grossing $16.5 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13185596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13185596", "title": "Stack (mathematics)", "text": "Stack (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics a stack or 2-sheaf is, roughly speaking, a sheaf that takes values in categories rather than sets. Stacks are used to formalise some of the main constructions of descent theory, and to construct fine moduli stacks when fine moduli spaces do not exist.\n\nDescent theory is concerned with generalisations of situations where isomorphic, compatible geometrical objects (such as vector bundles on topological spaces) can be \"glued together\" within a restriction of the topological basis. In a more general set-up the restrictions are replaced with pullbacks; fibred categories then make a good framework to discuss the possibility of such gluing. The intuitive meaning of a stack is that it is a fibred category such that \"all possible gluings work\". The specification of gluings requires a definition of coverings with regard to which the gluings can be considered. It turns out that the general language for describing these coverings is that of a Grothendieck topology. Thus a stack is formally given as a fibred category over another \"base\" category, where the base has a Grothendieck topology and where the fibred category satisfies a few axioms that ensure existence and uniqueness of certain gluings with respect to the Grothendieck topology.\n\nStacks are the underlying structure of algebraic stacks (also called Artin stacks) and Deligne–Mumford stacks, which generalize schemes and algebraic spaces and which are particularly useful in studying moduli spaces. There are inclusions: schemes ⊆ algebraic spaces ⊆ Deligne–Mumford stacks ⊆ algebraic stacks (Artin stacks) ⊆ stacks.\n\nThe concept of stacks has its origin in the definition of effective descent data in .\nIn a 1959 letter to Serre, Grothendieck observed that a fundamental obstruction to constructing good moduli spaces is the existence of automorphisms. A major motivation for stacks is that if a moduli space for some problem does not exist because of the existence of automorphisms, it may still be possible to construct a moduli stack.\n\nWhen defining quotients of schemes by group actions, it is often impossible for the quotient to be a scheme and still satisfy desirable properties for a quotient. For example, if a few points have non-trivial stabilisers, then the categorical quotient will not exist among schemes.\n\nIn the same way, moduli spaces of curves, vector bundles, or other geometric objects are often best defined as stacks instead of schemes. Constructions of moduli spaces often proceed by first constructing a larger space parametrizing the objects in question, and then quotienting by group action to account for objects with automorphisms which have been overcounted.\n\nA category formula_1 with a functor to a category formula_2 is called a fibered category over formula_2 if for any morphism formula_4 in formula_2 and any object formula_6 of formula_1 with image formula_8 (under the functor), there is a pullback formula_9 of formula_6 by formula_11. This means a morphism with image formula_11 such that any morphism formula_13 with image formula_14 can be factored as formula_15 by a unique morphism formula_16 in formula_1 such that the functor maps formula_18 to formula_19. The element formula_20 is called the pullback of formula_6 along formula_11 and is unique up to canonical isomorphism.\n\nThe category \"c\" is called a prestack over a category \"C\" with a Grothendieck topology if it is fibered over \"C\" and for any object \"U\" of \"C\" and objects \"x\", \"y\" of \"c\" with image \"U\", the functor from objects over \"U\" to sets taking \"F\":\"V\"→\"U\" to Hom(\"F\"*\"x\",\"F\"*\"y\") is a sheaf. This terminology is not consistent with the terminology for sheaves: prestacks are the analogues of separated presheaves rather than presheaves.\n\nThe category \"c\" is called a stack over the category \"C\" with a Grothendieck topology if it is a prestack over \"C\" and every descent datum is effective. A descent datum consists roughly of a covering of an object \"V\" of \"C\" by a family \"V\", elements \"x\" in the fiber over \"V\", and morphisms \"f\" between the restrictions of \"x\" and \"x\" to \"V\"=\"V\"×\"V\" satisfying the compatibility condition \"f\" = \"ff\". The descent datum is called effective if the elements \"x\" are essentially the pullbacks of an element \"x\" with image \"V\".\n\nA stack is called a stack in groupoids or a (2,1)-sheaf if it is also fibered in groupoids, meaning that its fibers (the inverse images of objects of \"C\") are groupoids. Some authors use the word \"stack\" to refer to the more restrictive notion of a stack in groupoids.\n\nAn algebraic stack or Artin stack is a stack in groupoids \"X\" over the etale site such that the diagonal map of \"X\" is representable and there exists a smooth surjection from (the stack associated to) a scheme to X.\nA morphism \"Y\"formula_23 \"X\" of stacks is representable if, for every morphism \"S\" formula_23 \"X\" from (the stack associated to) a scheme to X, the fiber product \"Y\" × \"S\" is isomorphic to (the stack associated to) an algebraic space. The fiber product of stacks is defined using the usual universal property, and changing the requirement that diagrams commute to the requirement that they 2-commute. See also morphism of algebraic stacks for further information.\n\nThe motivation behind the representability of the diagonal is the following: the diagonal morphism formula_25 is representable if and only if for any pair of morphisms of algebraic spaces formula_26, their fiber product formula_27 is representable.\n\nA Deligne–Mumford stack is an algebraic stack \"X\" such that there is an étale surjection from a scheme to \"X\".\nRoughly speaking, Deligne–Mumford stacks can be thought of as algebraic stacks whose objects have no infinitesimal automorphisms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn an algebraic stack one can construct a category of quasi-coherent sheaves similar to the category of quasi-coherent sheaves over a scheme.\n\nA quasi-coherent sheaf is roughly one that looks locally like the sheaf of a module over a ring. The first problem is to decide what one means by \"locally\": this involves the choice of a Grothendieck topology, and there are many possible choices for this, all of which have some problems and none of which seem completely satisfactory. The Grothendieck topology should be strong enough so that the stack is locally affine in this topology: schemes are locally affine in the Zariski topology so this is a good choice for schemes as Serre discovered, algebraic spaces and Deligne–Mumford stacks are locally affine in the etale topology so one usually uses the etale topology for these, while algebraic stacks are locally affine in the smooth topology so one can use the smooth topology in this case. For general algebraic stacks the etale topology does not have enough open sets: for example, if G is a smooth connected group then the only etale covers of the classifying stack BG are unions of copies of BG, which are not enough to give the right theory of quasicoherent sheaves.\n\nInstead of using the smooth topology for algebraic stacks one often uses a modification of it called the Lis-Et topology (short for Lisse-Etale: lisse is the French term for smooth), which has the same open sets as the smooth topology but the open covers are given by etale rather than smooth maps. This usually seems to lead to an equivalent category of quasi-coherent sheaves, but is easier to use: for example it is easier to compare with the etale topology on algebraic spaces. The Lis-Et topology has a subtle technical problem: a morphism between stacks does not in general give a morphism between the corresponding topoi. (The problem is that while one can construct a pair of adjoint functors \"f\", \"f\"*, as needed for a geometric morphism of topoi, the functor \"f\"* is not left exact in general. This problem is notorious for having caused some errors in published papers and books.) This means that constructing the pullback of a quasicoherent sheaf under a morphism of stacks requires some extra effort.\n\nIt is also possible to use finer topologies. Most reasonable \"sufficiently large\" Grothendieck topologies seem to lead to equivalent categories of quasi-coherent sheaves, but the larger a topology is the harder it is to handle, so one generally prefers to use smaller topologies as long as they have enough open sets. For example, the big fppf topology leads to essentially the same category of quasi-coherent sheaves as the Lis-Et topology, but has a subtle problem: the natural embedding of quasi-coherent sheaves into O modules in this topology is not exact (it does not preserve kernels in general).\n\nDifferentiable stacks and topological stacks are defined in a way similar to algebraic stacks, except that the underlying category of affine schemes is replaced by the category of smooth manifolds or topological spaces.\n\nMore generally one can define the notion of an \"n\"-sheaf or \"n\"–1 stack, which is roughly a sort of sheaf taking values in \"n\"–1 categories. There are several inequivalent ways of doing this. 1-sheaves are the same as sheaves, and 2-sheaves are the same as stacks. They are called higher stacks.\n\nA very similar and analogous extension is to develop the stack theory on non-discrete objects (i.e., a space is really a spectrum in algebraic topology). The resulting stacky objects are called derived stacks (or spectral stacks). Jacob Lurie's under-construction book \"Spectral Algebraic Geometry\" studies a generalization which he calls a spectral Deligne–Mumford stack. By definition, it is a ringed ∞-topos that is étale-locally the étale spectrum of an E-ring (this notion subsumes that of a derived scheme, at least in characteristic zero.)\n\nThere are some minor set theoretical problems with the usual foundation of the theory of stacks, because stacks are often defined as certain functors to the category of sets and are therefore not sets. There are several ways to deal with this problem:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34781198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34781198", "title": "Stare-in-the-crowd effect", "text": "Stare-in-the-crowd effect\n\nThe stare-in-the-crowd effect is the notion that an eyes-forward, direct gaze is more easily detected than an averted gaze. First discovered by psychologist and neurophysiologist Michael von Grünau (October 3, 1944-December 22, 2011) and his psychology student Christina Marie Anston using human subjects (von Grünau and Anston 1995), the processing advantage associated with this effect is thought to derive from the importance of eye contact as a cue for social interactions.\n\nIn their seminal 1995 paper published in Perception, von Grünau and Anston demonstrated that staring eyes (straight gaze with iris and pupil in center position in eye socket) are detected faster than eyes gazing to the right or left (averted gaze with iris and pupil in right-most or left-most position in eye socket). Eye targets with a straight gaze when presented in an array of averted gaze nontargets are detected faster with fewer errors than an averted gaze targets presented in an array of straight gaze targets. This search asymmetry in which straight gaze targets are given preference in array of averted gaze distractors is found for both realistically drawn and schematic eye stimuli but not for other arrayed objects. Search asymmetry is not seen with geometric stimuli, for instance 1 x 3 rows of black and white squares, that vary in the position of the distinguishing feature or stimuli consisting of only one schematic eye.\n\nThis effect, which has subsequently been replicated in many different search paradigms, is understood in terms of the evolutionary significance of what is considered to be one of the most critical sociocognitive abilities of humans and other primates: gaze perception. Gaze perception can manifest itself in two ways depending on context, social group or species. Mutual gaze or eye contact in humans and some other primates in one context can serve to bond individuals and regulate social interactions, through the transmission of expressions of intimacy and filial identity (Kleinke 1986). But, in another context, a sustained stare may be interpreted as a sign of hostility or anger – a cue for increased vigilance or aversive action (Ellsworth and Carlsmith 1973). Staring is a threat gesture in many primate societies (Hinde and Rowell 1962) and makes most people feel nervous and tense (Strom and Beck 1979). Be that as it may, regardless of how it is perceived and subsequently processed cognitively a directed gaze is a powerful cue, an amber alert, for potential synergistic or antagonistic interactions.\nAccording to Darwin (1872) and Gibson (1969), organisms have evolved perceptual sensitivities that maximize their survival. Among these is a visual system that rapidly and reliably identifies and discriminates relevant from irrelevant cues. The stare-in-the-crowd effect is considered to be one of these perceptual abilities: a ‘quick and dirty’ primary process, by means of which an organism can take on board basic facts about the space it shares with others and respond appropriately to maximize its survival and/or the survival of conspecifics with a common filial identity.\n\nIt has been speculated that human eye morphology evolved from a necessity for fast and accurate gaze perception for complex social interactions (Emery 2000). According to this model, an eye direction detector (EDD) mechanism - a neurocognitive system responsible for the rapid detection of eyes in the environment and their gaze direction – arose as a function of the geometry created by a dark circular iris relative to the white sclera (Baron-Cohen 1994). Specifically, it is contended that the increased ratio of exposed sclera in the eye outline of humans serves to enhance the velocity and acuity of gaze direction perception (Kobayashi and Kohshima 2001).\n\nBaron-Cohen, S. (1994) How to build a baby that can read minds: Cognitive mechanisms in mind reading. Cahiers de Psychology Cognitive/Current Psychology of Cognition, 13, 513–552.\n\nDarwin C, (1904) The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals (London: Murray) (original work published 1872).\n\nEllsworth, P. C., and Carlsmith, J. M. (1973) Eye contact and gaze aversion in aggressive encounter. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 33, 117–122.\n\nEmery, N. J. (2000) The eyes have it: The neuroethology, function and evolution of social gaze. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 24, 581–604.\n\nGibson, E J. (1969) Principles of Perceptual Learning and Development (New York: Academic Press).\n\nHinde R. A., and Rowell, T. E. (1962) Communication by posture and facial expression in the rhesus monkey. Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 138, 1-21.\n\nKleinke, C. L. (1986) Gaze and eye contact: A research review. Psychological Bulletin, 100, 78–100.\n\nKobayashi, H., and Kohshima, S. (2001) Unique morphology of the human eye and its adaptive meaning: Comparative studies on external morphology of the primate eye. Journal of Human Evolution, 40, 419–435.\n\nStrom, J. C., and Beck, R. W. (1979) Staring and participants’ sex: Physiological and subjective reactions. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin 5, 114-117.\n\nVon Grünau, M., and Anston, C. (1995) The detection of gaze direction: A stare-in-the-crowd effect. Perception, 24, 1297–1313.\n"}
{"id": "50338414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50338414", "title": "Stefanus Prize", "text": "Stefanus Prize\n\nThe Stefanus Prize is a human rights prize awarded to individuals for their outstanding contributions to defending freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe Stefanus Prize was established in 2005 by the Norwegian NGO Stefanus Alliance International, and has been awarded biennially since 2008. The award ceremony takes place in November in Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe first recipient of the Stefanus Prize was the Coptic Orthodox Bishop Thomas of Egypt. He received the award on November 11, 2005 for his \"fearless and courageous commitment to freedom of belief and human rights in Egypt.\"\n\nThe laureates are chosen by a committee appointed by the Stefanus Alliance International. The committee was composed of following members in 2016: Knut Vollebæk (former Ambassador and Minister of Foreign Affairs), Odd Einar Dørum (former Minister of Justice), Line Henriette Holten Hjemdal (member of the Parliament of Norway), and Gard Lindseth (board member of the Stefanus Alliance International).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4450450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4450450", "title": "Suspense", "text": "Suspense\n\nSuspense is a state of mental uncertainty, anxiety, of being undecided, or of being doubtful. In a dramatic work, suspense is the anticipation of the outcome of a plot or of the solution to an uncertainty, puzzle, or mystery, particularly as it affects a character for whom one has sympathy. However, suspense is not exclusive to fiction.\n\nIn literature, films, television, and plays, suspense is a major device for securing and maintaining interest. It may be of several major types: in one, the outcome is uncertain and the suspense resides in the question of \"who, what, or how\"; in another, the outcome is inevitable from foregoing events, and the suspense resides in the audience's anxious or frightened anticipation in the question of \"when\". Readers feel suspense when they are deeply curious about \"what\" will happen next, or when they know what is likely to happen but don’t know \"how\" it will happen. It would be difficult (and perhaps pointless) to write a piece of fiction in which there were not some issue the reader had a burning wish to find out about. Consequently, even in historical fiction, with characters whose life stories are well known, the \"why\" usually brings suspense to the novel.\n\nAn adjunct to suspense is foreshadowing, as found in hints of national crisis or revolution in Isabel Allende’s \"House of the Spirits\" (1991).\n\n\nSome authors have tried to explain the \"paradox of suspense\", namely: a narrative tension that remains effective even when uncertainty is neutralized, because repeat audiences know exactly how the story resolves. Some theories assume that true repeat audiences are extremely rare because, in reiteration, we usually forget many details of the story and the interest arises due to these holes of memory; others claim that uncertainty remains even for often told stories because, during the immersion in the fictional world, we forget fictionally what we know factually or because we expect fictional worlds to look like the real world, where exact repetition of an event is impossible.\n\nThe position of Yanal is more radical and postulates that narrative tension that remains effective in true repetition should be clearly distinguished from genuine suspense, because uncertainty is part of the definition of suspense. Baroni proposes to name \"rappel\" this kind of suspense whose excitement relies on the ability of the audience to anticipate perfectly what is to come, a precognition that is particularly enjoyable for children dealing with well-known fairy tales. Baroni adds that another kind of suspense without uncertainty can emerge with the occasional contradiction between what the reader knows about the future (cognition) and what he desires (volition), especially in tragedy, when the protagonist eventually dies or fails (\"suspense par contradiction\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4935241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4935241", "title": "Talairach coordinates", "text": "Talairach coordinates\n\nTalairach coordinates, also known as Talairach space, is a 3-dimensional coordinate system (known as an 'atlas') of the human brain, which is used to map the location of brain structures independent from individual differences in the size and overall shape of the brain. It is still common to use Talairach coordinates in functional brain imaging studies and to target transcranial stimulation of brain regions. However, alternative methods such as the MNI Coordinate System originated at the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital have largely replaced Talairach for stereotaxy and other procedures.\n\nThe coordinate system was first created by neurosurgeons Jean Talairach and Gabor Szikla in their work on the \"Talairach Atlas\" in 1967, creating a standardized grid for neurosurgery. The grid was based on the idea that distances to lesions in the brain are proportional to overall brain size (i.e., the distance between two structures is larger in a larger brain). In 1988 a second edition of the \"Talairach Atlas\" came out that was coauthored by Tournoux, and it is sometimes known as the Talairach–Tournoux system. This atlas was based on single post-mortem dissection of a human brain.\n\nThe \"Talairach Atlas\" uses Brodmann areas as the labels for brain regions.\n\nThe Talairach coordinate system is defined by making two anchors, the anterior commissure and posterior commissure, lie on a straight horizontal line. Since these two points lie on the midsagittal plane, the coordinate system is completely defined by requiring this plane to be vertical. Distances in Talairach coordinates are measured from the anterior commissure as the origin (as defined in the 1998 edition). The y-axis points posterior and anterior to the commissures, the left and right is the x-axis, and the z-axis is in the ventral-dorsal (down and up) directions. Once the brain is reoriented to these axes, the researchers must also outline the six cortical outlines of the brain: anterior, posterior, left, right, inferior, and superior. In the 1967 atlas the left is with positive coordinates while in the 1988 atlas the left has negative coordinates.\n\nBy defining standard anatomical landmarks that could be identified on different subjects (the anterior and posterior commissures), it became easier to spatially warp an individual brain image obtained through Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) and other imaging methods to this standard Talairach space. One can then make inferences about tissue identity at a specific location by referring to the atlas.\n\nAnother common atlas for the human brain is the Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital (MNI) coordinate system, which is the template used for SPM and the International Consortium for Brain Mapping. Most neuroimaging software packages are able to convert from Talairach to MNI coordinates.\n"}
{"id": "2058228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058228", "title": "Twelf", "text": "Twelf\n\nTwelf is an implementation of the logical framework LF. It is used for logic programming and for the formalization of programming language theory.\n\nAt its simplest, a Twelf program (called a \"signature\") is a collection of declarations of type families and constants that inhabit those type families. For example, the following is the standard definition of the natural numbers, with codice_1 standing for zero and codice_2 the successor operator.\n\nHere codice_3 is a type, and codice_1 and codice_2 are constant terms. As a dependently typed system, types can be indexed by terms, which allows the definition of more interesting type families (relations). Here is a definition of addition:\n\nThe type family codice_6 is read as a relation between three natural numbers codice_7, codice_8 and codice_9, such that M + N = P. We then give the constants that define the relation: codice_10 indicates that any natural number codice_7 plus zero is still codice_7. The quantifier codice_13 can be read as \"for all codice_7 of type codice_3\".\n\nThe constant codice_16 defines the case for when the second argument is the successor of some other number codice_8 (see pattern matching). The result is the successor of codice_9, where codice_9 is the sum of codice_7 and codice_8. This recursive call is made via the subgoal codice_22, introduced with codice_23. The arrow can be understood operationally as Prolog's codice_24, or as logical implication (\"if M + N = P, then M + (s N) = (s P)\"), or most faithfully to the type theory, as the type of the constant codice_16 (\"when given a term of type codice_22, return a term of type codice_27\").\n\nTwelf features type reconstruction and supports implicit parameters, so in practice one usually does not need to explicitly write codice_13 (etc.) above.\n\nThese simple examples do not display LF's higher-order features, nor any of its theorem checking capabilities. See the Twelf distribution for its included examples.\n\nTwelf is used in several different ways.\n\nTwelf signatures can be executed via a search procedure, so Twelf can be used as a logic programming language. Its core is more sophisticated than Prolog, since it is higher-order and dependently typed, but it is restricted to pure operators: there is no cut or other extralogical operators (such as ones for performing I/O) as are often found in Prolog implementations, which may make it less well-suited for practical logic programming applications. Some of the use of cut rule as used in Prolog is obtained through the ability to declare that certain operators belong to deterministic type families, which avoids recalculation. Also, like λProlog, Twelf generalizes the Horn clauses underlying Prolog to hereditary Harrop formulas, which allow for logically well-founded operational notions of fresh-name generation and scoped extension of the clause database.\nTwelf's main use today is as a system for formalizing mathematics (especially the metatheory of programming languages). Used this way it is closely related to Coq and Isabelle/HOL/HOL Light. However, unlike those systems, Twelf proofs are typically developed by hand. Despite this, for the problem domains at which it excels, Twelf proofs are often shorter and easier to develop than in the automated, general-purpose systems.\n\nTwelf is particularly well suited to the encoding of programming languages and logics, because it has a built-in notion of binding and substitution. Most logics and programming languages of interest make use of binding and substitution. When implemented in Twelf, binders can often be directly encoded using the technique of higher-order abstract syntax (HOAS), in which the meta-language (Twelf) binders are used to represent the object-level binders. As a consequence, standard theorems such as type-preserving substitution and alpha conversion come \"for free\".\n\nTwelf has been used to formalize many different logics and programming languages (examples are included with the distribution). Among the larger projects are a proof of safety for the Standard ML programming language, a foundational typed assembly language system from CMU, and a foundational proof carrying code system from Princeton.\n\nTwelf is written in Standard ML and binaries are available for Linux and Microsoft Windows. it is under active development (mostly at Carnegie Mellon University).\n\n"}
{"id": "58432750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58432750", "title": "Uchchhishta", "text": "Uchchhishta\n\nUchchhishta (, Ucchiṣṭa), known by various regional terms, is an Indian and a Hindu concept related to food. Though the term has various meanings and has no exact parallel in English, it is generally translated in English as \"leftovers\" or \"leavings\", but with a denigratory aspect. Uchchhishta frequently denotes food scraps after a person has eaten. In a broader sense, it refers to the contamination by food or hand that has come in contact with saliva or the inside of someone's mouth. A person or plate is also said to be Uchchhishta, when he/it comes in contact with Uchchhishta food. Uchchhishta food as well as the Uchchhishta eater/utensil are considered ritually impure. The eater is purified by washing his hand (Hindus traditionally eat with their fingers) and mouth.\n\nIt is highly disrespectful to offer Uchchhishta to someone in general, however it is acceptable to eat Uchchhishta of socially superior individuals, among other exceptions. While an offering of Uchchhishta food or by a person in the Uchchhishta state to Hindu divinities is forbidden in classical Hinduism, some heterodox Tantric deities are worshipped with the taboo offering.\n\nThe Monier-Williams Sanskrit dictionary defines Uchchhishta as: \"left, rejected, stale, spit out of the mouth (as remnants of food); one who has still the remains of food in the mouth or hands, one who has not washed his hands and mouth and therefore is considered impure, impure; leavings, fragments, remainder (especially of a sacrifice or of food)\".\n\nMedhatithi (c. 850–1050 CE), one of the oldest and most famous commentators of the Hindu law book \"Manusmriti\" lists the meanings of Uchchhishta: \n\nWhile Uchchhishta is related to leftovers and contact with saliva, Uchchhishta should be differentiated from other terms also translated in English as \"impure\": \"Amedhya\" (\"unfit for sacrifice\") refers to contamination by contact to human waste, corpses, decomposition etc. and \"malina\" (\"stained\") refers to pollution by physical dirt.\n\nLike other bodily substances like sweat, saliva is considered to be part of body and also not part of it, that is, of \"uncertain status\". Thus, contact with saliva, Uchchhishta, is regarded as impure. The \"Manusmriti\" however does not regard saliva defiling in general, but only in the food context. Drops of saliva, which transmit from one person to another while speaking, are not treated impure.\n\nThe precept of not contaminating all the food or a drink with bacteria or viruses in one's saliva is of particular concern as the health of someone could be threatened through cross contamination.\n\nA medieval Siddhar mocks the concept of Uchchhishta. He questions how are the flowers offered to Hindu deities or honey not defiled by saliva of bees and the cow's milk by the saliva of the calf.\n\n\nUchchhista is generally regarded as highly polluting and impure in Hinduism. Hindus view Uchchhista with revulsion. Eating Uchchhista is considered as humiliating; a Kannada proverb says that he is a dog who eats Uchchhista. Offering Uchchhista to a higher caste member is considered as his insult. \n\nPeople usually do not dip, serve or accept food with the fingers or cutlery that has touched someone's mouth. While cooking also, the cook does not taste food and use the same utensil to stir the food. Once food is tasted with a utensil, it is put away to wash. Food which has been dipped with fingers and cutlery used for eating is considered Uchchhista. While sharing or eating dry food or fruits, the food is portioned so that it does not become contaminated by someone's saliva. For the same reason, Hindus do not generally drink from each other's water glasses. \n\nIn the early 20th century, use of spoons or forks and metal plates were not used by orthodox Hindus as they had come in contact with one's mouth and thus could not be reused as they remained Uchchhista, even though cleaned. One-use leaf plates were preferred; Hindus traditionally eat with their fingers, without cutlery.\n\nUchchhishta is acceptable to be eaten by socially inferior individuals: one's servants, lower caste persons, beggars and animals. \"Untouchables\" including Castes handling human waste historically used to live on leftovers. Eating someone's Uchchhista is seen as a sign of submission and acceptance of the person's superiority.\n\nIn modern India, the rules of Uchchhista are relaxed in the cases of intimacy of a couple or a family. Eating the Uchchhishta food of a young child by his parents is also acceptable, as the child is not regarded a fully-grown separate individual. Parents usually feed young children from their own plate.\n\nIn contrast of the general negative connotations associated with it, eating some types of Uchchhista like of a husband by a wife, of a guru by the student and of a sacrifice or divine offering by all, is highly regarded. Prasad, food offered to a deity and having \"eaten\" by the deity, is sometimes considered the Uchchhista of the gods, as in some parts of North India; however other times as in parts of South India, the comparison of the sacred prasad to Uchchhista, is frowned upon.\n\nA husband is considered equivalent to God for a Hindu wife. As such, wife can eat his Uchchhista as a sign of her love and submission. The wife may eat in the same leaf as the husband's, after he finishes. The husband will leave some food in his plate for her to eat, as a symbol of his love. The custom is ritually performed first at the time of marriage. This act is said to signify her integration in her new family. It is also acceptable if the wife eats the Uchchhista of her in-laws or her husband's brothers.\nThe \"Apastamba Dharmasutra\" (1st-millennium BCE), while describing the code of conduct for a student, refers to the concept of Uchchhishta. In ancient times, a student would stay with a teacher (guru) in the latter's house (Gurukula) and learn. In this period, a student should ask for alms for his livelihood, which he should not consider as Uchchhishta. A student is prescribed to not leave any food uneaten in his plate, that is, leave no Uchchhishta. However, if any Uchchhishta remains, he should bury it, throw it in the water or give it away to a Shudra (a member from the lower social strata). The student is prescribed to eat the Uchchhishta of his guru, which are regarded as sacred as a sacrificial oblation. Eating Uchchhishta of one's father or brother is also acceptable. The \"Vasishtha Dharmasutra\" regards the Uchchhista of the guru, equivalent to medicine that an ill student should have.\n\nExceptions to Uchchhishta are given in the \"Vasishtha Dharmasutra\". Food remnants stuck in teeth or food currently in the mouth are not considered impure, as they are treated part of the mouth like teeth. Swallowing the same cleanses the individual. While pouring water for someone to drink, if drops of water fall on the person's feet; the drops are not Uchchhista, but considered part of the ground.\n\nThe concept of Uchchhishta focuses on purification by washing one's hands and mouth after eating. The cleansing is extended to the kitchen so that so no trace of Uchchhishta or cooking of the meal before, is left.\n\nOffering Uchchhishta food to Hindu deities or worship by an Uchchhishta person is prohibited in mainstream Hinduism. However, the esoteric Tantric goddess Matangi is recommended to be offered Uchchhishta food, in the polluted Uchchhishta state, with the remains of food in the mouth and hands; Matangi is associated with pollution and the outcaste and embodies the forbidden transgression of social norms. The goddess in a legend from the \"Shaktisamgama-tantram\" is also said to be born from Uchchhishta. The deity couples of Shiva-Parvati and Vishnu-Lakshmi dropped specks of food on the ground while eating. A divine maiden rose from the Uchchhishta and asked for their Uchchhishta. The deities blessed her and gave her the name Uchchhishta-Matangini (Matangi).\n\nAnother Tantric deity worshipped in the impure Uchchhishta state is Uchchhishta Ganapati – a Tantric form of the elephant-headed god Ganesha – who also derives his name from Uchchhishta.\n\nWhile Matangi is offered human Uchchhishta, the goddess Vimala is offered divine Uchchhishta of the god Jagannath, a form of Vishnu. Vimala is the Tantric consort of Jagannath and the guardian goddess of the Jagannath Temple, Puri – the principal temple of the god. Vimala is said to be survive of the Uchchhishta of Jagannath; vegetarian food offerings to Jagannath are offered to Vimala, after which they are sanctified as Mahaprasad (prasad). A legend justifies this tradition. Once, Shiva ate a food grain, the Uchchhishta of Vishnu as the latter's prasad. Half the grain stuck in Shiva's bread; however the sage Narada noticed it and ate it. Parvati, was upset that her rightful share of Vishnu's prasad had been eaten by Narada. In a peeved mood, she went to Vishnu and complained. Vishnu pacified her saying that in the Kali Yuga (the present era as per Hindu beliefs), she would live at Puri as Vimala, and would daily eat the remnants of his food.\n\nIn later versions of the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\", Shabari, a forest dweller woman, is instructed by her guru to wait for the arrival of the god Rama in her hermitage. She daily collects wild berries tasting them once for sourness, keeping only the sweet ones and discarding the bitter ones so that she could offer the god Rama only sweet berries, when he visits her. Unknowingly, the berries become Uchchhishta. Over time, she ages to an elderly woman. When Rama finally visits her hermitage, Shabari offers him the Uchchhishta berries. Lakshmana, Rama's brother, objects to the impurity of the Uchchhishta berries, unworthy to be eaten. However, Rama accepts the Uchchhishta berries, as they offered it with great love and devotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42447345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42447345", "title": "Wing-assisted incline running", "text": "Wing-assisted incline running\n\nWing-assisted incline running (abbreviated as \"WAIR\") is a running behavior observed in living birds as well as a model proposed to explain the evolution of avian flight. WAIR allows birds to run up steep or vertical inclines by flapping their wings, scaling greater inclines than possible through running alone. The WAIR origin-of-flight hypothesis proposes that the nascent wings of theropod dinosaurs were used to propel the animal up slopes, such as cliffs or trees, in a similar manner to that employed by modern birds, and that powered flight eventually evolved from this usage. During its proposal, it was suggested that WAIR might have plausibly been used by feathered theropods like \"Caudipteryx\" to develop aerial flight.\n\nWing-assisted incline running has been studied extensively in chicks of the chukar partridge (\"Alectoris chukar\"), and has been observed in juveniles and adults of other species of Galliformes as well as the rock dove (\"Columba livia\"). In chukar chicks, WAIR was experimentally demonstrated by comparing maximum inclines ascended by normal chicks to those with wing feathers trimmed or plucked entirely. On both smooth and rough surfaces, normal chicks were able to run up much steeper slopes than the other two groups, reaching maximum angles of 105° from the horizontal. Chicks used running alone at slopes up to 45°, then employed wing-flapping at greater slopes, and maximum slope successfully scaled increased with age. When baby chukars hatch, they have not yet developed their flight feathers. As the babies develop, it takes approximately one week for feathers to appear, and about three weeks for the ability to fly. As the baby chukars grow and before flying for the first time, they use WAIR as a transition to adult flight. WAIR has also been studied in the Australian brushturkey (\"Alectura lathami\"), although maximum slope decreased with age, such that hatchlings could scale greater slopes (up to 110°) than adults (up to 70°). In rock doves, adults employ WAIR at angles greater than 65°.\n\nThese galliformes might use WAIR instead of normal flight to reach tree branches because WAIR uses less energy than normal flight. Fewer muscles are used in the process of WAIR than normal flight, specifically pectoral and shoulder muscles which contribute to wing flapping. This provides an additional explanation as to why birds continue to use WAIR: it is faster than normal flight take-off, and running requires less energy than does flying. Therefore; the hindlimbs, in conjunction with the wings, may produce quick bouts of energy which may allow the bird to catch prey. This strategy also allows energy to be stored for use in a fight-or-flight situation such as to escape becoming eaten or caught. WAIR imposes less aerodynamic and physical forces than normal avian flight on the bird, an advantageous trait which may increase fitness. WAIR could have been used for balance purposes.\nMany theories propose that the manifestation of WAIR in birds is for predatory escape purposes, in that they are able to run up extremely steep and past vertical slopes (such as the trunk of a tree) to escape from a ground-dwelling predator. Another reason for the manifestation of WAIR may be for dispersal or to find food or resources, but this idea is mostly proposed as a survival strategy.\nWhether it is to evade predation, catch prey, enhance reproductive success, or simply a variation imposed for dispersal, flight among avian creatures has evolved to be a highly successful trait.\n\nThe WAIR hypothesis for the origin of flight is a version of the \"cursorial model\" of the evolution of avian flight, in which birds' wings originated from forelimb modifications that provided downforce, enabling the proto-birds to run up extremely steep slopes such as the trunks of trees. The hypothesis was prompted by the observation of living young chukar chicks using WAIR, and proposes that dinosaur wings developed their aerodynamic functions as a result of the need to run quickly up very steep slopes such as tree trunks, possibly to escape from predators. Originally, it was thought that birds need \"downforce\" to give their feet increased grip in this scenario. However, a study found lift generated from wings to be the primary factor for successfully accelerating, indicating the onset of flight ability was constrained by neuromuscular control or power rather than by the shape of the wing itself, and that partially developed wings not yet capable of flight could indeed provide useful lift during WAIR. Additionally, when both the power and work needed for WAIR were examined, it was identified that the need for pectoral muscles in flight increases with the angle being scaled. Thus, WAIR is a hypothesis providing a model for an evolutionary transition from terrestrial to aerial locomotion as birds skeletally adapted to meet the requirements to scale steeper and steeper inclines by flight. This might have allowed smaller, potentially juvenile maniraptorans to scale the sides of trees to escape predators that were too big to climb. WAIR may have been present in oviraptorosaurs and therizinosauroids, but as the adults, especially of therizinosauroids, would probably break the trees trying to climb, their hatchlings or chicks would have made it up easily. Because of this way to escape predation, early maniraptorans might have evolved their long arms, true feathers and fused wishbones.\n\nOne possible problem with the WAIR origin of flight hypothesis was noticed by Philip Senter. He argued that early birds, including \"Archaeopteryx\", lacked the shoulder mechanism by which modern birds' wings produce swift, powerful upstrokes. Since the downforce on which WAIR depends is generated by upstrokes, Senter argued that early birds were incapable of WAIR or flapping flight.\n\nEvidence has been proposed against the WAIR hypothesis, stating that it is too simplistic and does not take additional information into effect. There have been additional mechanisms suggested, such as climbing claws, that would have provided an advantage for the birds, but are absent in fossil records or extant birds. Other arguments against WAIR include a lack of fossil evidence and no additional intermediate or transition stages available for study which would provide supplementary evidence for WAIR.\n\n\n"}
