{"id": "29684157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29684157", "title": "Action off James Island", "text": "Action off James Island\n\nThe Action off James Island was a naval engagement of the War of 1812. In May 1813 an American frigate captured three British whalers off James Island in the South Pacific. Only one of the whalers resisted and the resultant single-ship action was one of the few fought in Pacific waters during the war. The British later recovered all the whalers involved.\n\nFollowing Captain David Porter's passage of Cape Horn in a year earlier, the United States Navy vessel focused on commerce raiding by attacking British whalers off the coast of South America. After taking several vessels, Captain Porter made a prize of , a 280-ton sloop. \"Georgiana\" initially carried two guns but Porter increased her armament to six 18-pounders, four swivel guns, and six blunderbusses. He placed Lieutenant John Downes in command and gave him a crew of forty-two navy men and six volunteers, recently captured American sailors. Porter then instructed Downes to harass the British off James Island in the Galapagos chain.\n\nLeaving \"Essex\" on May 12, Downes headed in a southern direction for James. While nearing the island in the afternoon on May 28, lookouts aboard \"Georgiana\" sighted a mast and sails on the horizon. In fact the sails belonged to two brigs, the 270-ton whaler , accompanied by the 220-ton whaler . Downes ordered his men to give chase and raised the Union Jack to trick the whalers into believing that they were not under threat. When the Americans were within range they lowered a few boats filled with men and captured the two sloops without resistance. Later the British captains revealed to Downes that they did not realize they were being attacked until after the Americans were on deck.\nOn board the two vessels were a total of sixteen guns, eight each, and fifty sailors, whom the Americans took prisoner. But just as the capture of \"Rose\" and \"Catherine\" was completed, a third vessel was spotted, it was , armed with eleven guns and crewed by twenty-five men. \"Georgiana\" maneuvered to pursue and after several moments of chasing, the sun had gone down before the Americans were in firing range. In the dark, \"Georgiana\" fired a warning shot at \"Hector\", which responded with inaccurate broadsides. The Americans then engaged and began raking the British vessel, ripping off its main mast and most of the rigging. Four more broadsides followed and when it seemed as though the whaler's fire had weakened, \"Georgiana\" moved in to board. Just as the Americans drew near, the British lowered their colors and surrendered so the boarding took place without hostilities.\n\nTwo British sailors had been killed and six others seriously wounded. Apparently all of the British shots passed over \"Georgiana\" or fell short. Thus the Americans reported no damage or casualties.\n\nSeventy-five prisoners were taken but because there were fewer than fifty Americans to guard them, Lieutenant Downes disarmed \"Rose\" and transferred the prisoners to her. They were then released on parole and ordered to Saint Helena. \"Georgiana\" returned to \"Essex\", which was anchored of Tumbez, Peru, on 24 June. On the same day as the action, David Porter captured two more whalers without incident, (18 guns), and (10 guns). Captain Porter was now in command of nine armed vessels in the Pacific. Lieutenant Downes was promoted on November 28, 1813, for gallantry in his many actions against the British and the natives of Nuka Hiva.\n\nThe British later recaptured all three whalers and returned them to whaling. recaptured \"Georgiana\" in the Atlantic on 28 November 1813, and sent her into Bermuda.\n\nOnly \"Rose\" was sailing under a letter of marque, which Captain Mark Munro had received on 15 August 1811. It described \"Rose\" as of 245 tons (bm), with a crew of 24 men, and armed with eight 12 and 9-pounder guns. By virtue of the letter, she was authorized to engage in offensive action. The other two British whalers, \"Catherine\" and \"Hector\", were legally only allowed to use their armament in self-defense.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "21807139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21807139", "title": "Advanced Radar Research Center", "text": "Advanced Radar Research Center\n\nThe Advanced Radar Research Center (ARRC) is a University Strategic Organization of the University of Oklahoma (OU) located at the Radar Innovation Lab (RIL) in Norman, Oklahoma. The Executive Director of ARRC is Dr. Robert D. Palmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2216708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216708", "title": "Algum", "text": "Algum\n\nAlgum (sometimes rendered Almug or as its plural, Almuggim) is a type of wood referred to in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nAccording to the First Book of Kings (1 Kings 10:12), and the Second Book of Chronicles (2 Chronicles 2:8; 9:10-11), it was used, together with cedar and pine, in the construction of the pillars of Solomon's Temple and the crafting of musical instruments for use in the Temple. Some English translations say that it was used for the steps rather than the pillars and biblical commentators Keil and Delitzsch suggest \"we should have to think of steps with bannisters\" to make sense of the text.\n\nIt is likely that the wood was brought by the ships of Tarshish, sent from the Red Sea port of Ezion-Giber, from the distant country of Ophir, and was very valuable.\n\nThe botanical identity of algum is not known for certain, though some references suggest it may be juniper (\"Juniperus\"). Several species of juniper occur in the Middle East region, including \"Juniperus excelsa\" (Greek juniper), \"Juniperus foetidissima\" (stinking juniper), \"Juniperus phoenicea\" (Phoenician juniper), and \"Juniperus drupacea\" (Syrian juniper). It is likely that the woods of these species, which are all very similar in woodworking properties, would have not been distinguished from each other in the wood trade. The difficulty in identifying this wood is due in part to uncertainty over the location of the biblical city of Ophir. If Ophir is located in India, as some think, the wood likely would be red sandalwood or \"Pterocarpus santalinus\".\n"}
{"id": "19468941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468941", "title": "Balance of nature", "text": "Balance of nature\n\nThe balance of nature is a theory that proposes that ecological systems are usually in a stable equilibrium or homeostasis, which is to say that a small change in some particular parameter (the size of a particular population, for example) will be corrected by some negative feedback that will bring the parameter back to its original \"point of balance\" with the rest of the system. It may apply where populations depend on each other, for example in predator/prey systems, or relationships between herbivores and their food source. It is also sometimes applied to the relationship between the Earth's ecosystem, the composition of the atmosphere, and the world's weather.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis is a balance of nature-based theory that suggests that the Earth and its ecology may act as co-ordinated systems in order to maintain the balance of nature.\n\nThe theory that nature is permanently in balance has been largely discredited by scientists working in ecology, as it has been found that chaotic changes in population levels are common, but nevertheless the idea continues to be popular in the general public. During the later half of the twentieth century the theory was superseded by catastrophe theory and chaos theory.\n\nThe concept that nature maintains its condition is of ancient provenance; Herodotus commented on the wonderful relationship between predator and prey species, which remained in a steady proportion to one another, with predators never excessively consuming their prey populations. The \"balance of nature\" concept once ruled ecological research, as well as once governing the management of natural resources. This led to a doctrine popular among some conservationists that nature was best left to its own devices, and that human intervention into it was by definition unacceptable. The validity of a \"balance of nature\" was already questioned in the early 1900s, but the general abandonment of the theory by scientists working in ecology only happened in the last quarter of that century when studies showed that it did not match what could be observed among plant and animal populations.\n\nPredator-prey populations tend to show chaotic behavior within limits, where the sizes of populations change in a way that may appear random, but is in fact obeying deterministic laws based only on the relationship between a population and its food source illustrated by the Lotka–Volterra equation. An experimental example of this was shown in an eight-year study on small Baltic Sea creatures such as plankton, which were isolated from the rest of the ocean. Each member of the food web was shown to take turns multiplying and declining, even though the scientists kept the outside conditions constant. An article in the journal \"Nature\" stated; \"Advanced mathematical techniques proved the indisputable presence of chaos in this food web ... short-term prediction is possible, but long-term prediction is not.\"\n\nAlthough some conservationist organizations argue that human activity is incompatible with a balanced ecosystem, there are numerous examples in history showing that several modern day habitats originate from human activity: some of Latin America's rain forests owe their existence to humans planting and transplanting them, while the abundance of grazing animals in the Serengeti plain of Africa is thought by some ecologists to be partly due to human-set fires that created savanna habitats.\n\nPossibly one of the best examples of an ecosystem fundamentally modified by human activity can be observed as a consequence of the Australian Aboriginal practice of \"Fire-stick farming\". The legacy of this practice over long periods has resulted in forests being converted to grasslands capable of sustaining larger populations of faunal prey, particularly in the northern and western regions of the continent. So thorough has been the effect of these deliberate regular burnings that many plant and tree species from affected regions have now completely adapted to the annual fire regime in that they require the passage of a fire before their seeds will even germinate. One school in Los Angeles states, \" “We have let our kids go to the forest area of the playground. However, five years later, we found that none of the flowers were growing, the natural damp soil had been hardened, and all of the beautiful grass had been plucked,”.\n\nDespite being discredited among ecologists, the theory is widely held to be true by the general public, with one authority calling it an \"enduring myth\". At least in Midwestern America, the \"balance of nature\" idea was shown to be widely held by both science majors and the general student population. In a study at the University of Patras, educational sciences students were asked to reason about the future of ecosystems which suffered human-driven disturbances. Subjects agreed that it was very likely for the ecosystems to fully recover their initial state, referring to either a 'recovery process' which restores the initial 'balance', or specific 'recovery mechanisms' as an ecosystem's inherent characteristic. In a 2017 study, Ampatzidis and Ergazaki discuss the learning objectives and design criteria that a learning environment for non-biology major students should meet to support them challenge the \"balance of nature\" idea.\n\n"}
{"id": "43106404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43106404", "title": "Besós power station", "text": "Besós power station\n\nBesós power station is a combined cycle thermoelectric plant located in Sant Adrià de Besòs, suburb of Barcelona, Spain. It consists of two 400 MW thermal units fueled with natural gas, was connected to the grid in 2002 and is owned 50% of Gas Natural and Endesa.\n\n"}
{"id": "17017119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17017119", "title": "Boundary current", "text": "Boundary current\n\nBoundary currents are ocean currents with dynamics determined by the presence of a coastline, and fall into two distinct categories: western boundary currents and eastern boundary currents.\n\nEastern boundary currents are relatively shallow, broad and slow-flowing. They are found on the eastern side of oceanic basins (adjacent to the western coasts of continents). Subtropical eastern boundary currents flow equatorward, transporting cold water from higher latitudes to lower latitudes; examples include the Benguela Current, the Canary Current, the Humboldt Current, and the California Current. Coastal upwelling often brings nutrient-rich water into eastern boundary current regions, making them productive areas of the ocean.\n\nWestern boundary currents are warm, deep, narrow, and fast flowing currents that form on the west side of ocean basins due to \"western intensification\". They carry warm water from the tropics poleward. Examples include the Gulf Stream, the Agulhas Current, and the Kuroshio.\n\nWestern intensification is the intensification of the western arm of an oceanic current, particularly a large gyre in an ocean basin. The trade winds blow westward in the tropics, and the westerlies blow eastward at mid-latitudes. This wind pattern applies a stress to the subtropical ocean surface with negative curl in the northern hemisphere and a positive curl in the southern hemisphere. The resulting Sverdrup transport is equatorward in both cases. Because of conservation of mass and potential vorticity conservation, that transport is balanced by a narrow, intense poleward current, which flows along the western boundary of the ocean basin, allowing the vorticity introduced by coastal friction to balance the vorticity input of the wind. Western intensification also occurs in the polar gyres, where the sign of the wind stress curl and the direction of the resulting currents are reversed. It is because of western intensification that the currents on the western boundary of a basin (such as the Gulf Stream, a current on the western side of the Atlantic Ocean) are stronger than those on the eastern boundary (such as the California Current, on the eastern side of the Pacific Ocean). Western intensification was first explained by the American oceanographer Henry Stommel.\n\nIn 1948, Henry Stommel published a paper in \"Transactions, American Geophysical Union\" titled \"The Westward Intensification of Wind-Driven Ocean Currents\", in which he used a simple, homogeneous, rectangular ocean model to examine the streamlines and surface height contours for an ocean at a non-rotating frame, an ocean characterized by a constant Coriolis parameter and finally, a real-case ocean basin with a latitudinally-varying Coriolis parameter. In this simple, modeling setting, the principal factors that were accounted for influencing the oceanic circulation were surface wind stress, bottom friction, a variable surface height leading to horizontal pressure gradients, and finally, the Coriolis effect.\n\nIn his simplified model, he assumed an ocean of constant density and depth formula_1 in the presence of ocean currents; he also introduced a linearized, frictional term to account for the dissipative effects that prevent the real ocean from accelerating. \nHe starts, thus, from the steady-state momentum and continuity equations:\n\nformula_2\n\nformula_3\n\nformula_4\n\nHere formula_5 is the strength of the Coriolis force, formula_6 is the bottom-friction coeffecient, formula_7 is gravity, and formula_8 is the wind forcing. The wind is blowing towards the west at formula_9 and towards the east at formula_10.\nActing on (1) with formula_11 and on (2) with formula_12, subtracting, and then using (3), gives \nIf we introduce a Stream function formula_14 and linearize by assuming that formula_15, equation (4) reduces to\n\nformula_16\n\nHere\n\nformula_17\n\nand\n\nformula_18\n\nThe solutions of (5) with boundary condition that formula_19 be constant on the coastlines, and for different values of formula_20, emphasize the role of the variation of the Coriolis parameter with latitude in inciting the strengthening of western boundary currents. Such currents are observed to be much faster, deeper, narrower and warmer than their eastern counterparts.\n\nFor a non-rotating state (zero Coriolis parameter) as well as an ocean state at which the Coriolis parameter is a constant, the ocean circulation does not demonstrate any preference toward intensification/acceleration near the western boundary. The streamlines exhibit a symmetric behavior in all directions, with the height contours demonstrating a nearly parallel relation to the streamlines, in the case of the homogeneously rotating ocean. Finally, for the case of interest - the one in which the Coriolis force is latitudinally variant - a distinct tendency for an asymmetrical streamline diagram is noted, with an observed, intense clustering toward the western part of the modeled ocean. A nice set of figures depicting the distribution of streamlines and height contours for the cases of a uniformly-rotating ocean and an ocean where the Coriolis force is linearly dependent on latitude can be found in Stommel's 1948 paper.\n\nThe physics of western intensification can be understood through a mechanism that helps maintain the vortex balance along an ocean gyre. Harald Sverdrup was the first one, preceding Henry Stommel, to attempt to explain the mid-ocean vorticity balance by looking at the relationship between surface wind forcings and the mass transport within the upper ocean layer. He assumed a geostrophic interior flow, while neglecting any frictional or viscosity effects and presuming that the circulation vanishes at some depth in the ocean. This prohibited the application of his theory to the western boundary currents, since some form of dissipative effect (bottom Ekman layer) would be later shown to be necessary to predict a closed circulation for an entire ocean basin and to counteract the wind-driven flow.\n\nSverdrup introduced a potential vorticity argument to connect the net, interior flow of the oceans to the surface wind stress and the incited planetary vorticity perturbations. For instance, Ekman convergence in the sub-tropics (related to the existence of the trade winds in the tropics and the westerlies in the mid-latitudes) was suggested to lead to a downward vertical velocity and therefore, a squashing of the water columns, which subsequently forces the ocean gyre to spin more slowly (via angular momentum conservation). This is accomplished via a decrease in planetary vorticity (since relative vorticity variations are not significant in large ocean circulations), a phenomenon attainable through an equator-wardly directed, interior flow that characterizes the subtropical gyre. The opposite is applicable when Ekman divergence is induced, leading to Ekman absorption (suction) and a subsequent, water column stretching and poleward return flow, a characteristic of sub-polar gyres. \nThis return flow, as shown by Stommel, occurs in a meridional current, concentrated near the western boundary of an ocean basin. To balance the vorticity source induced by the wind stress forcing, Stommel introduced a linear frictional term in the Sverdrup equation, functioning as the vorticity sink. This bottom ocean, frictional drag on the horizontal flow allowed Stommel to theoretically predict a closed, basin-wide circulation, while demonstrating the west-ward intensification of wind-driven gyres and its attribution to the Coriolis variation with latitude (beta effect). Walter Munk (1950) further implemented Stommel's theory of western intensification by using a more realistic frictional term, while emphasizing \"the lateral dissipation of eddy energy.\" In this way, not only did he reproduce Stommel's results, recreating thus the circulation of a western boundary current of an ocean gyre resembling the Gulf stream, but he also showed that sub-polar gyres should develop northward of the subtropical ones, spinning in the opposite direction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10766148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10766148", "title": "Cedar wood", "text": "Cedar wood\n\nCedar wood comes from several different trees known as cedars that grow in different parts of the world, and may have different uses. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41145336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41145336", "title": "Civil Affairs Staging Area", "text": "Civil Affairs Staging Area\n\nThe Civil Affairs Staging Area (CASA) also known as the Civil Affairs Holding and Staging Area was a combined U.S. Army, U.S Navy military formation authorized by the Joint Chiefs of Staff on June 18, 1944 during World War Two for military government theater planning, training and provision of military government personnel to areas of the Far East liberated from the Empire of Japan, including East China, Formosa and Korea. CASA had two divisions: The Operations and Training Division focused on language instruction and execution of civil affairs duties at a local level. These duties varied greatly and, as an example, included mass feeding of civilians, camp sanitation, provision of medical supplies, containment of epidemic diseases, labor relations and rodent control. The Theatre Planning & Research Division developed plans for military government at a national level such as control of Japan's economic institutions, control of Japan's education system and methods for increasing the overall supply of food throughout, not only Japan, but also previously occupied areas like East China. CASA provided comprehensive training and planning in civil affairs administration to officers coming from six schools of military government established at various universities throughout the United States. Army & Navy personnel trained by CASA numbered in the thousands, with more than 1,000 officers assigned to a wide variety of civil affairs positions for the initial occupation of Japan alone. The goal of the U.S. Army's Civil Affairs Division in the creation of CASA was to replicate the same success in the Far East experienced by the Civil Affairs Division in the European Theatre. General John H. Hilldring ordered Colonel Hardy C. Dillard, Commander of the Civil Affairs Training Division for the European Theater of Operations, to take command of CASA from Colonel William A. Boekel and implement the European Civil Affair's planning and training program. Colonel Dillard was relieved of command on 20 July 1945 by Brigadier General Percy L. Sadler.\n\nShortly after the establishment of a Civil Affairs Division in the War Department in March 1943, a circular letter was sent to the commanding generals of all theaters offering the services of the Civil Affairs Division and of trained Civil Affairs officers. In response to a request from the Commanding General, United States Army Forces, China Burma India Theatre, Colonel William A. Boekel and Colonel (then Lt. Colonel) Mitchell Jenkins were ordered to New Delhi, where they arrived 4 May and 14 May respectively. Their first month was spent familiarizing themselves with the general situation in the countries of Southeast Asia. The American Civil Affairs officers received the distinct impression that the British officers regarded Burma and other British territory as definitely a British Civil Affairs area, with which the Americans should have no concern. As a result of policy conferences, this attitude was translated into a formal statement of basic policy, approved by American and British headquarters. Once established, this policy left American Civil Affairs officers no function except that of liaison with British agencie Colonel Boekel and Lt. Colonel Jenkins continued their studies of the countries of Southeast Asia, as well as the question of United States Civil Affairs activities in Japan proper, China, Korea and Manchukuo. Their work resulted in the formulation of certain tentative plans for the military government of Japan, and for the procurement, training and organization of Civil Affairs officers for the Far East. Their conclusions were embodied in a series of letters, of 26 August, 19 October, and 6 November 1943. The recommendations contained in these letters were approved by the Commanding General, China Burma India Theater, and transmitted by him to the War Department. In the preparation of the last two letters, assistance was given by Mr. John Davies, Political Adviser to Lieutenant General Joseph W. Stillwell, and by Mr. Monroe Kail, member of the American Mission in New Delhi. Both of these gentlemen concurred fully with the plans and recommendations contained in the letters.\n\nColonel Boekel was ordered, December 1943 to duty with the Civil affairs Division at Washington, although he was technically still assigned to Headquarters, USAF (United States Army Forces), CBI Theater. Upon reporting to Major General John H. Hilldring, Commander, Civil Affairs Division, Colonel Boekel was directed to assist the General in Civil Affairs planning and training for the Far East. The Civil Affairs Division directed its primary effort toward procuring a State Department, War Department (Operations Division); and Joint Chiefs of Staff declaration of policy with respect to United States Civil Affairs administration in the Far East. Such a statement was dependent, in large measure, upon certain long-range policy decisions within the State Department. General Hilldring wrote to the Chief, Naval Office for Occupied Areas, 25 January 1944:\n\"It is anticipated that at an early date the State Department will issue written decisions of policy defining the current and postwar interests of the American Government in the above referred to areas. Upon receipt thereof, appropriate directives will be issued to the several military commanders in these areas... No definitive statement has thus far been made by the Army with reference to Korea and Manchukuo because the question as to whether or not there will be American participation in the administration of these areas is one which still awaits State Department determination.\"\n\nThe Civil Affairs Division's project, that of bringing together the various agencies involved in arriving at a joint decision, progressed satisfactorily. After four months in Washington, Colonel Boekel was able to report that,\"On 13 May 1944 J,C,S.. Paper 819/2 was issued by the J.C.S. approving certain basic assumptions for Civil Affairs planning purposes for specific areas in the Far East and Pacific Ocean. This Paper is substantially responsive to the inquiries and policy recommendations made by the Commanding General, USAF (United States Army Forces), China Burma India Theater in his letters to the War Department dated respectively 26 August, 19 October, and 8 November, 1943. The Paper as approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff embodies the composite views of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of War, the State Department, the Civil Affairs Division (CAD) and of the U.S. Navy, and was 'sweated' through twenty-one drafts. General Hilldring regards the paper as of primary importance in that it gives initial direction and impetus to Civil Affairs \"planning.\" In addition to policy planning, the Civil Affairs Division was concerned with plans for the procurement, training and organization of Civil Affairs officers for the Far East. As early as January 1944, it was reported to General Hilldring that, \"the program is well under way for the training of 1500 officers for use in the operational and administrative functions.\" The Navy was invited to participate in the Army-training program as well as in the subsequent Civil Affairs administration of Japan to the extent of twenty-five per-cent of the personnel required. This invitation was confirmed later in papers of 10 December and 22 December 1943.\"\n\nThe procurement of fifteen hundred officers for Civil Affairs work in the Far East was provided for in War Department Circular No. 136, 8 April 1944. The first exclusively Far Eastern class at the School of Military Government, Charlottesville, Virginia, opened 12 June 1944 at the [University of Virginia]. While the Civil Affairs Division in Washington was busy coordinating the planning activities of the numerous agencies concerned with Civil Affairs, the School of Military Government in Charlottesville, VA was developing an informal Civil Affairs Planning Staff. Colonel Boekel wrote to General Ferris, 23 January 1944, that he would be in Charlottesville to interview 4 officers 'earmarked' for Asiatic Theater duty and to lay the foundation for the organization of the nucleus planning staff, which initially consisted of 4 Army and 3 Navy officers. A week later, Colonel Boekel wrote, that An embryonic planning section had been set up at the School of Military Government in Charlottesville,VA consisting of five U.S. Army and three U.S. Navy officers and that Lt. Col Arthur Dobson was tentatively earmarked for General Albert Wedemeyer but was to be retained at the School of Military Government pending determination of the larger question of policy as to the extent of participation in SEAC (South East Asia Command). Colonel Boekel summarized personnel in the initial planning group as follows:\n\n\nThe planning section completed and maintained a current and basic Military Government plan for Japan Proper and its personnel were added to from time to time in the ratio of 75% Army and 25% Navy. According to Colonel Boekel in a letter to Colonel Jenkins dated 14 April 1944, the informal planning group at the SMG (School of Military Government) was, \"involved in some very rough spade work in anticipation of what the several theater commanders or Navy Area Commanders may require to complete their planning when a directive is issued to them.\" Colonel Boekel noted that the theater commanders would not be bound by anything planned by the Far East initial planning group at the SMG (School of Military Government). The group, according to Colonel Boekel, served best as the focus for the procurement of survey data from the dozen or more federal agencies charged with the responsibility of getting out handbooks and guides for specific areas.\n\nPlanning for the establishment of a Civil Affairs Holding and Staging Area is first mentioned in a memorandum of Colonel Boekel's, written 15 January 1944, in preparation for a discussion with Colonel David Marcus, relative to planning for Civil affairs administration in the Far East. It was Colonel Boekel's opinion that, \"As soon as the American (Army and Navy) officers and enlisted men personnel are trained, they should be organized into teams or provisional units with appropriate T/O's (tables of organization) and moved to Hawaii for final integration with the Theater Headquarters Planning Staff. The facilities of the University of Hawaii may be available. There the personnel should be broken up into teams for special areas and be ready to take over any thereof as the military situation requires. If there is to be British participation, the amalgamation thereof with the Americans should take place in Hawaii or the final Theater School and Staging Area. The Asiatic Theater Commander has already stated that for logistical and other reasons, the staff could not be trained in India and introduced into Japan via the Himalayan hump; nor over the Burma Road.\" In furtherance of the plan to establish the Holding and Staging Area in Hawaii, Colonel Boekel conferred with Captain Mercer- Secretary to Admiral Nimitz, 10 March 1944. Captain Mercer stated that the Navy would be opposed to the immediate reception and quartering of any large number of Civil Affairs officers in Hawaii, because of the paucity of shipping space, subsistence and quarters. He indicated, however, that the Navy would give a sympathetic reception to the 'survey' committee which is to go to Hawaii from Civil Affairs Division and Captain Pence's office, particularly if the proposal is based upon a progressive transfer starting with a small number on or about 1 June and continuing through the ensuing period of CATS (Civil Affairs Training Schools). Colonel Boekel also reported that during the previous week he had a conference with Captain Moore of Lt. General Richardson's staff. Captain Moore indicated that there would be no difficulty in transferring the Planning Section and successive increments of CATS (Civil Affairs Training Schools) to Hawaii. Colonel Boekel went to Hawaii in May 1944 to confer directly with Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, Commander of the Pacific Fleet and Pacific Ocean Areas, and with Lt. General Richardson, Commanding General, United States Army Forces, Central Pacific Area concerning the site of the Holding and Staging Area about to be established. The decision arrived at as a result of this conference was that it would be impractical to locate the Holding and Staging Area in Hawaii. The search for a site was then transferred to the west coast of continental United States. A committee from Washington, composed of Colonel Boekel, Colonel Harry Jones, Chief of the Personnel and Training Branch, Civil affairs Division, and Colonel H. E. Robison, of the Provost Marshal General's Office, visited several potential sites in California. They inspected Camp McQuaide at Santa Cruz; the Presidio of San Francisco; Camp Beale, at Sacramento; and Fort Ord, at Monterey. Their choice fell upon the last named site. The formal establishment of the holding and staging area is referred to in a Joint Chiefs of Staff document.\n\nAt the time of the arrival of the advance party at Fort Ord, 15 July 1944, there was still some uncertainty as to which buildings would be assigned to CASA. After an inspection of the available buildings in the 17AC area, as well as other available troop quarters, a message was sent to the Ninth Service Command at Fort Douglas, and confirmation received, of the assignment to CASA of the WAC (Warfare Area Commander) area. This consisted of the administration building, a mess hall and three barracks. One additional building was still occupied by WAC personnel. The space assigned as regarded as adequate for the initial group of about one hundred officers and twenty-eight enlisted men on a single-cot basis, and provided, in addition a room for assembly, research and conference purposes. The Civil Affairs Staging Area, Fort Ord, California, was activated 15 July 1944, by CASA General Order No 1, which also announced Colonel Boekel's assumption of command as Acting Commanding Officer.\n\nThe immediate task of the advance party, in preparation for the arrival of the first contingent, 1 August, was that of cleaning and equipping the assigned buildings. In order to fit the physical facilities for efficient use, there was also considerable minor carpentry, plumbing, signal and engineering work to be done, as well as Quartermaster and Commissary supplies to be drawn. As a result of strenuous work by the members of the advance party, carried out over long hours, the physical task of moving in was completed by Saturday evening, 22 July 1944. On the following Monday morning, a field ration mess was opened.\n\nCASA personnel strength showed little growth from the time of activation of Civil affairs Holding and Staging, Area to the end of the year, five months later. The arrival of eight hundred seventy-six (876) Navy enlisted men, plus additional Army and Navy officers, during the last days of the calendar year brought the total strength to one thousand one hundred twenty-four (1,124). Considerable additional growth was presaged by the increasing numbers of Army and Navy officers in Civil Affairs Training Schools at six universities.This rapid increase of CASA personnel had already put considerable pressure on the physical facilities assigned to CASA by the Ninth Service Command. As early as September 1944, Commander Dillard wrote, that \"It is important that we immediately freeze space either here or at the Presidio of San Francisco in anticipation of future needs\" Continuing studies of space needs occupied the attention of the command staff. Colonel Jenkins, the Executive Officer, reported to the Commanding Officer, 14 November 1944, as follows, \"On the basis that- we may not be able to have The Presidio at Monterrey and must stay here, I have again made a survey of East Garrison of Fort Ord. Just in case we cannot get additional space in the Main Garrison beyond what has now been allocated to us and CAD (Civil Affairs Division) insists that we must care for more than 1200 bodies, which as I wrote you is the maximum that our present space can accommodate. Under these circumstances, East Garrison would be our only alternative. It will take care of us, but I hope we will not have to go there.\" Colonel Harry P. Jones, Chief of Personnel and Training Branch, CAD (Civil Affairs Division), replied to the above memorandum that the original authority to locate at Fort Ord provided for freezing space for 1625 men and officers. He added that a new request was being submitted, increasing the number to be provided for up to 3000, and including a paragraph to the effect that if Fort Ord, Main Garrison is not available, the Presidio of Monterey would be made available. The Commanding Officer stated, in response to Colonel Jones' letter, that, \"There has never been any question of lack of accommodations at Fort Ord. The only question is, \"where\" in Fort Ord. Ground Forces are freezing, from Washington a steadily increasing amount of space in Main Garrison. Every indication pointed to a growing monopoly which, unchecked; would have split us between Main Garrison and East Garrison or even pushed us over to East Garrison.\" The Civil Affairs Division, War Department, then recommended that a survey be made of the facilities of Camp Beale in order to compare them with those of East Garrison. In the memorandum reporting this comparison the Commanding Officer expressed his judgment that, \"East Garrison, while less desirable than Main Garrison or the Presidio of Monterey, is much more desirable in every respect than Camp Beale.\" He stated also that Colonel Jenkins, Executive Officer, and Major Dickey, Chief of POR Branch of S-3, concurred with him in this judgment. Colonel Dillard maintained that, \"It would be impossible to secure a better location for CASA than the Presidio of Monterrey.\"The primary obstacle to be overcome in securing the Presidio of Monterey for CASA was the fact that this permanent installation had been inactivated. The War Department was experiencing considerable pressure to inactivate more installations, as the result of large scale shipments of personnel to overseas duty. To reactivate the Presidio of Monterrey was indeed a difficult task. The difficulties were eventually overcome, however, and Colonel Dillard was able to write on, 24 January 1945 that, \"Upon my return from a trip to San Francisco and Shoemaker I learned the welcome news that the Presidio of Monterrey had been procured for us.\" War Department Circular No. 4-0, dated 1 February 1945, and General Order No 12 Headquarters, Ninth Service Command, 10 formally placed the Presidio of Monterey in active status, effective 18 January 1945 and established the Civil Affairs Holding and Staging area as an activity of the Presidio, effective 10 February 1945.\n\nThe organization and functions of the Physical Processing and Training Branch of the Operations Division (S3) included:\nThe advance party devoted most of its time during the second week at CASA to planning the details of the training program which began immediately.\n\nThe mission of the Unit Training Branch was to train military government units for the successful completion of any Military Government mission in the field, or for any specific Military Government mission assigned by a Theater Commander.\n\nThe planning section included plans on courses, field problems, panels, demonstrations; estimates of supply and transport needed to execute plans and the supervision of execution needed to complete the plans. The planning section also included the provision of administrative assistants to execute unit training programs as assigned, to revise programs in the light of operation experience, to complete staff work submitted by the Problem Planning Section, to submit original oral or written memoranda for the unit training problems and programs, to undertake the planning and execution of special programs required by higher authority on short notice and to check all Field and Military Government problems with provision headquarters and appropriate functional specialists.\n\nA full size civilian camp for displaced persons, occupying approximately ten acres was staked out and outlined in white tape on the Presidio of Monterrey. The camp layout was based on a recommended plan submitted to the Headquarters from the Theater...Barbed wire fences, sanitary facilities and typical sections of barracks and other buildings were constructed in the area - with detachments participating in the construction. It was anticipated that the camp would make field problems relating to camps take on a more realistic aspect in addition to the training aid, which the actual layout would provide.\n\nDuring the summer of 1945, several paper and plaster models of hilly terrain were provided, also small models of buildings, sanitary facilities, water tanks, etc. Training groups were then given the opportunity to set up a model civilian camp. Each of these camp layouts was photographed, as the basis for a team contest to see which group could set up the best camp. Considerable interest was aroused by this realistic approach to a practical problem.\n\nThe mission of the Information and Indoctrination Branch was to disseminate general information which would be useful to Military Government officers in the field, provide speakers with Far Eastern experience instructional films, the organization of educational panels, to secure education pamphlets and similar materials, prepare and supervise a weekly \"convocation\" or assembly, to procure and project film for all divisions of CASA, and to install and operate a public address system for all divisions.\n\nLanguage work was initially included in the Interior Training Section of the Planning, Processing and Training Branch, Functional Division, with Major Wilbur L. Williams, CMP, as Section Chief. There were two language supervisors, 1st Lt Harold K. Brown, INF, and 1st Lt Suyeki Okumura, INF. Instruction was carried on initially by five enlisted instructors of Japanese ancestry, S/Sgt Hironobu Hino, T/4 Randolph K. Inoue, T/4 Clarence M. Kimura, S/Sgt Masaru Nakagawa, and S/Sgt Paul J. Sakai, The Divisional reorganization at CASA of 22 November 1944 set up a separate Language Section, with Major Myron I. Barker, AUS, as Chief of Section, and 1st Lt. Suyeki Okumura, INF, as Assistant Chief. Two additional Japanese language informants arrived at the end of December, and fifteen more arrived 5 January 1945, bringing the total to twenty-two. In February, eleven Navy officers were assigned to the Language Section for duty. They constituted a research and production unit. Each officer was given a definite project, and attached to him was a group of informants who worked closely with him. Two more informants were added to the group in March. By 20 July, the end of the first year of CASA, the total number of informants stood at thirty-nine. The number of classes in Japanese language was slightly more than fifty, and the number of classes in the Chinese language was fourteen. At the end of the first month of Japanese language instruction, the officers in charge of the program, 1st Lt Harold K. Brown, INF, and 1st Lt. Suyeki Okumura, INF, made a report to the Commanding Officer. They mentioned certain problems which had become apparent during the course of the month. For one thing, the instructors had not received any teaching materials from Military Intelligence School, Camp Savage, Minnesota, from which all of them had come. For reasons of security, they had been asked to turn in all their language materials before they left, but were promised that materials would be shipped as soon as requested by proper authority. Request had been made, but no materials had arrived. Another problem was created by the different systems of spelling used, (Hepburn and Block-Kennedy) some of the officers having been trained in one system and some in the other. This difficulty was met by mimeographing all teaching materials in both systems. One paragraph of this report is of special interest.\n\nA difficult situation was created by the wide variation in language experience and previous training of the officers at CASA, The report mentioned above, points out that there were four distinct groups, for each of which a distinct type of language work had to be provided. These groups were:\n\nApproximately three months of training which was presented differently from the training given to Class II at the same school. In addition to this difference in training, these officers had served in the field for three months, immediately prior to assignment at CASA, during which time, the majority had lost all contact with the language. Some instruction had been received in reading and writing.\n\nSeven and one-half months of training in the language, with no loss of contact prior to assignment at CASA. Elementary training in reading and writing and use of the dictionary.\n\nApproximately three months of training at the School of Military Government at the University of Virginia. During this training, \"Naganuma's Standard Reader\" was used as a text, and the officers were learning to read and write simultaneously while learning to speak the language.\n\nOfficers with no previous training in the language, and Navy officers who had received very little training at the Navy School at Columbia University.\n\nAn interesting and significant observation of the language experience of the officers was made by the Acting Commanding Officer, Colonel Boekel, in his weekly report to the Commander, Civil Affairs Division (CAD), dated 25 August 1944. He wrote,\n\"I have made it a practice, whenever possible, to audit the language refresher conferences being conducted here under the supervision of the five language sergeants. I derived the very clear impression that the practical vocabularies of the CASA Officers and their ability to weave the spoken words into a simple sentence structure were woefully inadequate. I gained the impression too that the vocabulary thus far achieved had to do principally with the ordinary amenities of gracious living and that no special effort had been made thus far to teach Civil Affairs officers a vocabulary and language structure which would enable them to make practical applications thereof in simple Civil Affairs tasks. Motivated by the foregoing impressions, we prepared a questionnaire. Today one hour was devoted to the procurement of ninety-one (91) CASA officers' self-evaluation of their Area E linguistic ability. In addition, the five sergeant language instructors were directed to regard themselves as the average CASA linguist and, without consultation with each other, to furnish a rating of the average CASA officer in the same questionnaire...the more significant facts brought out in the questionnaire. The officers in rating themselves claimed a vocabulary which averaged 704 words, and asserted their ability to use 208 words fluently, 275 words fairly well and 192 with difficulty. The Japanese sergeant instructors, in rating the average CASA. officers, gave them credit for the retention of a 204 word vocabulary of which they could use 97 fluently, 70 fairly well, and 82 with difficulty. The answers to interrogatory 4 in the questionnaire (i.e., the Civil Affairs problem) indicate that 71% of the officers consider that they are not sufficiently qualified in the use of the language to accomplish the Civil Affairs mission therein stated. If of this percentage figure there is added the qualified \"yes\" answers, then only seven (7) officers or approximately 8% themselves equal to the questionnaire language task and 92% are unqualified. Four of the sergeant instructors stated emphatically and one of them qualified that the average CASA officer would not be able to handle the language part of the Civil Affairs mission in question. The instructors had been working with these officers for only two weeks and therefore their basis for judgment was perhaps not sufficient. As to the method of instruction at CATS (Civil Affairs Training Schools), the preponderant opinion seems to be that more emphasis should be placed on conversation and drill in the actual vocabulary required for the accomplishment of the Civil Affairs mission.\" Perhaps in part as a result of this investigation, vocabularies and drill materials developed at CASA did emphasize the use of Civil Affairs situations, and were therefore realistic and practical. A large amount of such material was developed at CASA.\n\nLanguage work was initially included in the Interior Training Section of the Planning, Processing and Training Branch, Functional Division, with Major Wilbur L. Williams, CMP, as Section Chief. There were two language supervisors, 1st Lt Harold K. Brown, INF, and 1st Lt Suyeki Okumura, INF. Instruction was carried on initially by five enlisted instructors of Japanese ancestry, S/Sgt Hironobu Hino, T/4 Randolph K. Ideue, T/4 Clarence M. Kimura, S/Sgt Masaru Nakagawa, and S/Sgt Paul J. Sakai, The Divisional reorganization of 22 November 1944 set up separate Language Section, with Major Myron I. Barker, AUS, as Chief of Section, and 1st Lt Suyeki Okumura, INF, as Assistant Chief.Two additional Japanese language informants arrived at the end of December, and fifteen more arrived 5 January 1945, bringing the total to twenty-two. In February, eleven Navy officers were assigned to the Language Section for duty. They constituted a research and production unit. Each officer was given a definite project, and attached to him was a group of informants who worked closely with him. Two more informants were added to the group in March. 3. By 20 July, the end of the first year of CASA, the total number of informants stood at thirty-nine, the number of classes in Japanese language; was slightly more than fifty, and the number of classes in the Chinese language was fourteen.\nThe Language Branch rendered service to other CASA activities by providing translators, chosen from its staff of Nisei informants, insofar as this could be done without interfering with the instructional program. These translators were of special value to the CASA Outpost of the Office of Strategic Services, and to the research Group of S-5 in connection with the writing of \nMilitary Government handbooks and manuals.\n\nThe officers studying Japanese were organized into small groups, and met with the Japanese-American enlisted instructors two hours each day, five days a week. Relatively little emphasis was placed on reading and writing the Japanese language. The primary concern was to develop facility in the use of the spoken language. Much attention was given to the development of mimeographed language materials (dialogues, conversations, etc.) dealing specifically with \nMilitary Government situations.\n\nThe classes in Chinese language were developed primarily because of the possibility that CASA might be called upon to, send Civil Affairs officers to the Theater for use in Formosa or on the China coast. A few officers who had some experience in the use of spoken Chinese (Mandarin) were called upon to serve as instructors. Madame Ling-fu Yang, formerly curator of the National Museum, Peking became an instructor in this department, and conducted additional classes for the CASA officers who were acting as instructors.\n\nFunctional training was concerned with the preparation of officers for the many specialized functions performed by Civil Affairs/Military Government. Training of this nature was carried on from the beginning. At first, however, it was so closely integrated with Theater Survey and Planning that no separate branch or section was established for it. When an S-5 Division was created, in December 1944, functional training was declared to be the primary mission of the new division. It was not until 3 March 1945 that functional training was transferred to the S-3 or \"Training\" Division. Special Order No 38, 6 March, assigned personnel to the \"Functional Training Branch\" of the S-3 Division. The name of the Branch was changed, 10 April, to 'Instruction Branch\" at the same time that its responsibilities were expanded.\n\nOfficers in the General Administration Section studied the governments of the area at the national, prefecture, city, village and township levels.\n\nStudents in the Public Safety Section concentrated on the public safety operations of the area including: police, fire and civilian defense. Arrangements were made with the Chief of Police, San Francisco, and with the Warden of San Quentin Prison, to send groups of CASA Public Safety Officers to the San Francisco Bay area for training in their specialty.\n\nOfficers in the Legal and Property Control Section studied the laws and machinery for the administration of justice in the area and in addition, property control.\n\nCurriculum consisted of a course in Oriental Agriculture, given at the University of California College of Agriculture at Davis. and courses of instruction in Japanese agriculture at CASA. Field trips were taken to Biggs, California, to study USDA Rice Experiment Station; to Sacramento, California, to inspect the Bercut-Richards Canning Factory, which packed fruit for the Armed Forces and the F.H. Woodruff & sons Seed Company plant, packaging vegetable seeds for foreign shipment; to the Delta Area of California, south of Sacramento, to study fruit and vegetable production and the handling of Japanese labor; and to the California Agricultural. Exp. Station Orchard in Winters, California, where subtropical fruits were observed and studied on the tree. Stops were made at Vacaville to inspect the Basic Products Company, onion dehydrating plant; and at Berkeley, to study hydroponics (water culture of plants) in the U.S. Army Air Forces Laboratory.\n\nOfficers in the Economics and Labor Section studied economics in its different ramifications including agriculture, fisheries, communications, public works and utilities, transportation, industry and resources, and labor relations.\n\nTraining curriculum included mechanisms of banking, public finance and currency control involved in the liberated area.\n\nTraining Curriculum included coursework in public works, transportation, utilities and communications. Additional training was conducted at Camp Parks, California, Navy Construction Battalion station. Arrangements were made through the Military Government Liaison Officer, Twelfth Naval District, San Francisco. First contingent of officers reported to Camp Parks 4 March 1945. Subject matter included: Seabee administration, history and advanced base policy. Functional components included: cargo stowage; mosquito control; camp sanitation - including drainage; water purification; refrigeration equipment and native materials. These subjects were presented by class lectures, motion pictures and field demonstrations.\n\nThe coursework for Mess Supervisors covered several areas that had an immediate impact on civilian sustenance:\n\nA training section in Sanitation, under the Surgeon, was originated in early January 1945, when Capt. W.D. Sheets, reported for duty. Water treating equipment and other sanitary equipment and supplies were immediately ordered. During January the Sanitary Demonstration area, lectures and training films were utilized in the training program, since no other training aids were available. With the removal of CASA to the Presidio, early in February, use of the Fort Ord Sanitary Demonstration Area was eliminated. By the latter part of February, three other Sanitary Officers had reported for duty, Majors Milton O Lee and Howard E. Dorst, and Capt. W.R. Bradlee. The training program was then organized with four hours of instruction in water sanitation (Capt. Sheets), two hours in waste disposal(Capt.Bradlee), four hours in food sanitation (Maj. Lee), four hours in insect and rodent control (Maj. Dorst), and four hours in field sanitation by all of the above officers. Major Dorst, the senior officer, was designated Chief of Section, and Capt. Sheets continued as Property Officer. As more training equipment was received, floor space available in the Dispensary became inadequate and the Sanitary Training Section was moved to larger quarters in Building 5.\n\nA new Sanitary Demonstration Area was constructed at the Presidio of Monterey, at first by officer trainees, and later be enlisted men and prisoners of war. This area contained about forty appliances, and was completely constructed from salvage material, except for cement, with about 1500 man hours of labor. A practice construction area ordered the permanent installations. During training a number of these appliances were in operation. To inaugurate the Area, all of the Headquarters Staff was conducted on a tour in late May. Food was prepared on the field ranges and the noon meal was served in the field, mess gear was washed and waste disposal carried out in the field incinerators. \n\nWater sanitation instruction included: a general discussion of sources of supply, types of equipment, sterilization methods, water discipline, etc. Training aids consisted of: lister bag, knapsack filter, testing sets, automatic chlorinator, pumps, pumping and hypo-chlorinator, purification set No. 1 filter, mobile purification unit, distillation unit, charts, water cans and water trailer.\n\nInstruction on excreta and waste disposal problems, improvisation in the field, operation and maintenance of facilities, selection of disposal sites, etc. Use of training aids included: TF 8-1174 \"Disposal of Human waste\", Blackboard; sanitation models (table size), latrine box, pail latrine, barrel latrine, trough urinal, pipe urinal, sewage ditches; flush toilets, tip buckets, automatic siphon; Imhoff tank, Septic tank.\n\nDiscussion of food selection, preparation, serving and storage in the field; principles of mess sanitation. Training aids included: Films - FS 8-10 \"Disposal of wastes\"; FS 8-61 \"Mess sanitation11; FS 10-106 \"Refrigeration in the field'; FS 10-100 \"Mobile Kitchen\"; and TF 10-1215 \"Combat Zone rations, unit messing\". Army field range No 1; M 1937 range and equipment; Stove, cooking M 1942, two burner; dehydrated foods; K ration; C ration.\n\nInsect and rodent control instruction included: general discussion of diseases transmitted to man, insect vectors, methods of extermination, and demonstration of use of all types of equipment. Training aids included: Films: TF 1-3343 \"Malaria Discipline\"; and TF 8-1288 \"Louse-borne diseases\". Blackboard, Repellents (612, Indalone, Dimethyphthalate, Combination 6-2-2, Bednet in place, head nets, mosquito protective gloves, plastic screen, 16x18 mesh screen, aerosol bomb, methyl bromide, fumigation bag, fly spray, fly trap, sodium arsenite, DDT dust plus talc, DDT dust plus pyrophyllite, DDT 5% kerosene spray, paris green undiluted, paris green 5% with flour, fuel oil, borax, paradichlchlorobenzene rotary duster, knapsack sprayer, hand sprayer, delousing duster, motor driven duster, motor-driven sprayer, mosquito larva, pupa and adult specimens, fly egg, larva, pupa and adult specimens, flea larva, pupa and adult specimens, Phlebotomus adult specimens, louse egg, nymph and adult specimens, bedbug egg, nymph and adult specimens, cockroach egg, nymph and adult specimens, rat poisons (barium carbonate, zinc phosphide, calcium cyanide, cyanide discoids), rat traps, bait box.\n\nExplanation and demonstration of sanitary appliances used in the field included: training aids; (Actual appliances in operation constructed from salvage material), water storage basin, lister bag and soakage pit, water heating unit, vapor burner, flash burner, shower, washing platform, hand laundry, barrel washer, mess gear pre-sterilization, heating units, kitchen fly, kitchen tables, serving table, garbage stand, fly traps mess gear washer, garbage pit, underground cooling box, suspended food box, barrel incinerator, garbage strainer, log can inclined plane incinerator, barrel inclined plane incinerator, ash barrel grease trap, barrel baffle grease trap, box baffle grease trap, soakage pit, soakage trench, hand washer, straddle trenches, latrine box, pail latrine, trough urinal, squatter box, pipe urinal, square trough urinal, pedal hand washer, feces burner.\n\nThis course involved an introduction to the CASA training plan, objectives and responsibilities of Civil Affairs/Military Government teams and discussion of general health problems and their solution as applied to MG staff and civilians, with special emphasis on, \"Health as a Command function.\"\n\n\nThe instruction under the Medical Section included a course on first aid and a lecture tour of the Sanitary Demonstration Area at the East Garrison of Fort Ord. In addition, a two and half day functional training course was given to engineering and medical officers on operation of water treating equipment. This instruction included operation of the following equipment: knapsack type, hand operated water filter; automatic hypochlorinator, pumping and hypochlorinating unit, purification unit No 1 (pressure filter), mobile purification unit, and distillation unit. Supplementing the above, instruction and a four-hour lecture tour was given at the Ninth Service Command laboratory on the chemical and bacteriological analyses of water. This course included lectures on principles of waste disposal and a trip to two sewage disposal plants at Carmel and Salinas.\n\nThis course covered endemic and epidemic diseases of the Pacific Area. The course included general symptomatology, methods of spread and special control measures for cholera, plague, scrub typhus, schistosomiasis, filariasis, etc. .\n\nIn addition to medical training and sanitary training, there was also a section devoted to medical supply training. This course had as its objectives. \n\nThe work of the Governmental Organization and Administration Section began in May 1945 with an analysis of the various Ministries of Japan's government. The group made suggestions with regard to Military Government organization for Japan at the national level. It drew up plans for the Ministries subsection and for the Legislative subsection, Military Government, Japan. It developed and printed a \"Military Government Functional Chart\" which shows the progressive stages of Military Government by functions, the availability of native governmental organizations for administration and recommendations for their use. It prepared draft copies of directives for Military Government, Japan. In June the group began preliminary studies of and an outline for a Manual on Military Government, Japan.\n\nThe Public Health Section prepared a list and a map showing location of hospitals and other medical facilities in Japan, and a list of medical personnel in Japan. It also brought out a functional chart for Public Health. It outlined and began work on a Technical Manual. It made a listing of basic drugs to supplement the CAD Medical Units, a flow chart of Medical supplies and the draft of a nutrition plan for Japan.\n\nThe Public Welfare Section prepared a list of projects as a guide for its own activities. This list was superseded almost immediately by a new list of projects received from higher authority. The projects listed were charts of the Japanese Welfare Ministry, objectives and policies of Military Government public welfare work (also to be put into chart form), directives and proclamations, and a series of forms and records.\n\nThe Education Section prepared a series of memoranda including immediate objectives of the Education Section, Japan, long range plans for education, administrative organization, and staff requirements in headquarters and in the field. The group undertook the collection of a large number of Japanese school textbooks and of other works on education in Japan. The Chief of Section spent five weeks visiting major educational institutions on the Pacific Coast, collecting Japanese textbooks and other materials, and interviewing persons who had some personal experience with education in Japan. The group secured the services of translators who began the translation of the more important of the textbooks. Two additional memoranda were written; a suggested editorial policy for the revision of Japanese textbooks and a proposal that Katakana be adopted as the official language.\n\nThe Public Safety section prepared a \"Standing Operating Procedure for Public Safety, Japan\". It made a government vehicle survey, Japan. It also studied opium and other narcotic controls. The Fire subsection made a survey of fire protection methods in Japan, and studied the water system and firefighting equipment of Japan.\n\nIn addition to the usual tasks performed by all branches and sections, the Counter Intelligence Section carried on research on Japanese associations and societies, and on subversive individuals.\n\nThe Finance Branch initiated and forwarded a request to the Treasury Department, Washington, for data on property in Japan, Korea, Formosa and Manchukuo.\n\nIt was the function of the Supply Branch to consolidate and revise the T/0 and E's (table of organization and equipment) submitted to it by all the other branches and sections of the Planning Staff. It also prepared a plan for overall Theater supply procedures - Military Government, Japan.\n\nThe Economics Branch included a large number of sections, subsections, units, and produced a considerable quantity of material of a research and survey nature and also a series of plans for the control of Japan's economic institutions.\n\nAmong many other items, the Section produced a memorandum of basic policies and activities considered essential to maximizing the availability of supplies of food in Japan, a study of Japanese agriculture and related problems, a systematic digest of Japanese agricultural agencies, channels of authority and functions of various units, a study of land tenure in relation to farm labor, a study on problems of increasing agricultural production, an outline of policies plans, procedure, etc., with reference to land reclamation, and a study of the organization and operation of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to its work on Japanese agriculture, the Section did considerable work of highly classified nature on agricultural problems of the East China Coast. This was based on the assumption that S-5(planning) might be charged with the responsibility for planning Military Government operations for this area.\n\nOne of the projects proposed by the Water Transportation Subsection and approved by the Steering Committee was that of surveying port petroleum problems. This study had three parts. \n\nThe Legal Branch prepared a series of overlay maps showing the location of various types of courts and penal institutions in Japan. Its primary efforts were devoted to the study of the Ministry of Justice. The group prepared a chart of the organization and bureaus \nof the Ministry. It undertook a detailed study of the functions of the Ministry, and prepared the outline of a plan for Military Government supervision of the Ministry.\n\nThe Public Works and Utilities Branch prepared a draft memorandum on the scope and principal functions of the electric power and water utilities of Japan. It initiated a population study of each of the forty-six prefectures and of two hundred municipalities of Japan with the object of determining the utilities requirements of Japan, In July 1945 the group began to compile an index of the water works of Japan.\n\nResearch Unit#1 operated over a longer period of time with a much larger staff than any other research group. Its objective was to produce an informational volume, covering a great many aspects of Japanese life, on each of the forty-six prefectures of Japan.\nThe number of pages in each completed volume varied from 125 to 335 with an approximate average of 175 pages. The amount of research necessary to secure adequate information for the writing of these volumes was enormous. The cooperation of OSS/Casa Outpost enabled the Research Group to secure access to materials drawn from all over the United States, and even from foreign countries. Translation facilities of OSS were provided, as were also the facilities of the translation pool of the Japanese Language School, University of Michigan, and the translation pool. Provost Marshal General's Office, Washington. Work on the manuals was delayed by the inability of the Research Staff to secure the services of an adequate number of typists. References to this difficulty are repeated many times in the weekly reports of the division. Finally, when a deadline was set, it became necessary to transfer typists from other activities, and of course, for everyone to work under considerable pressure. By 20 July, 7 of the manuals had been completed and sent to OSS/San Francisco for off-set printing. Even a cursory examination of the completed prefectural manuals shows that the Group did a highly commendable job. Most of the members of the research group were not trained in research. They had to work under pressure and do all kinds of work, even to editing and proofreading, and in some cases, typing. The completed volumes probably contain more information about Japan than is to be found in any other single source in the English language.\n\nThe Finance Group requested, during the week prior to 1 June 1945, that they be authorized to initiate a project which developed into a technical manual named \" A Manual on the Administration of Japanese Public and Private Finance\" The request for authorization was approved by the Steering Committee. The outline of the volume was as follows:\n\nLike the prefectural manuals, the above work required a tremendous amount of research, which, in turn, necessitated the procurement of documentary material from many outside sources. The completed volume of 550 pages is probably the most complete source of financial information on Japan that is available in English.\n\nThe Government research group was absorbed into the planning section on Governmental Organization and Administration, and the two groups worked as one. For this reason, there are no separate reports on the work of Research Unit #3.\n\nThis project began in March 1945 as an effort to explain something of the psychology of the Japanese people with the objective of using this psychology in connection with Military Government control of civilians. The title of the project, as originally stated, was:, \"Field Techniques of Japanese Civilian Control\". The group was, however, reorganized, the title and outline changed, and the work became a \"Handbook on Japanese Behavior and Customs\" By the latter part of July 1945 the volume was completed in rough draft form, preparatory to editing and revision.\n\nThe main efforts of the Public Health Research Group were devoted to the compilation of a \"Japanese-English Medical Vocabulary and Phrase book\" The vocabulary items to be used were first selected by a group of medical officers assigned to this group. The English terms were then translated into Japanese by the Japanese language instructors at CASA.\n\nThe agricultural research group, like the Government research group, worked with its section of the planning staff so completely that little distinction is possible. It spent considerable time studying the fruit and vegetable production of Japan, the forests and forest products of Japan, and undertook a classified study of food supplies and agriculture on the East China Coast. The East China Coast study included such items as problems of an adequate supply of protein foods, problems of administration, food storage, currency, price control, rationing, etc.\n\nAt the request of the Theater, Major Irwin M. Isaacs carried on two investigations. \n\nThe Office of Strategic Services established an Outpost at the Civil Affairs Holding and Staging Area, Fort Ord, California, effective 1 February 1945. This activity was established as the result of a request made by the Director, Civil Affairs Division, Washington, to(then) Brigadier General William Donovan Director, Office of Strategic Services. The request had its origin in the desire of Major General Hilldring, Director, CAD (Civil Affairs Division), to duplicate for the Pacific Theater the successful work of the OSS at Shrivenham, England, in helping plan for Military Government in the European Theater The understanding arrived at between the OSS and the Civil Affairs Division included the following salient points:\n\nThe OSS personnel who served at the CASA Outpost were specialists in various professional fields. The permanent staff was selected to provide a wide range of such specialties, and consultants who were brought in from time to time were also selected for their specialized knowledge. The staff and consultants included Army, Navy, Marine Corps officers and civilian personnel.\n\n\n\nThe functions of the Outpost fell into three broad categories:\n\nCASA early conceived the idea of producing an intelligence manual for each of the Japanese prefectures. The purpose of the manual was to provide the military government officer with a single volume of information, not elsewhere available in organized form, of a local and regional nature. OSS was asked to provide research materials of a classified nature, expert direction and supervision of research methods and techniques, and final editing and approval of each manual. In addition, a map packet was to constitute an integral part of each manual. Each map-packet was to contain 20 to 30 maps selected by OSS, covering the prefecture and its parts, and was also to include a map made especially for Military Government. OSS was to procure maps already produced from its own collection, from the hydrographic Office, G-2, and Army Map Service. The map, which was to be especially made for Military Government, was to be produced by CASA officers, making base maps and overlays, and OSS/Washington was to care for drafting and reproduction.\n\nFor research and writing of the textual part of the manuals, CASA assigned an average of 75 Army and Navy officers, who worked about six months on the project. OSS provided classified documentary material and aided the CASA library in the procurement of non classified material. OSS also established the research techniques and methods, evaluated materials, and worked directly with the officers in the collection of data and writing of text.\n\nThe production volume was large: The Provost Marshal General's Office arranged for the printing of 75,000 volumes of manuals, the number of copies for each prefecture varying with the importance of the prefecture involved. Each manual averaged 175 pages. About 1,000,000 maps were required for map packets.\n\nAs the pace of operations in the Pacific Theater increased, it became apparent that the program, as originally timed, would not be completed quickly enough. CASA and OSS therefore greatly expedited the production of a few copies each of manuals on thirteen leading prefectures. OSS/San Francisco cooperated to accomplish reproduction, and the first copies, together with map packets, were sent to the Theater in time to arrive there by the time American occupation began. The regular edition, was produced later over a number of weeks.\n\nOSS/Washington made a major contribution to the Prefectural project by making available its research resources, its facilities, and its personnel in an advisory capacity. OSS/San Francisco also stood by at all times with assistance and took over entirely the reproduction of the provisional edition of manuals on thirteen prefectures. The manuals were received with commendation and appreciation by all those, interested in intelligence materials pertaining to the Far East, who had an opportunity to examine them.\n\nThe planning activities of the Outpost were consultative in nature. A few outstanding contributions by the OSS Outpost include:\n\nCreation of two detailed charts. These charts were jointly produced by OSS and S-5 Division, CASA and were reproduced in quantity by OSS/San Francisco. Since the charts were incorporated in various economic directives, effects of this research and analysis are far-reaching. The two charts were:\n\nFinal review and approval by OSS consultants of all proclamations and ordinances prepared at CASA for use by Military Government in occupying Japan. This was done under short deadlines and was accomplished by the Outpost furnishing two experts on Japanese law and Japanese language. One of the experts was formally commended by the CASA command for his participation in this project.\n\nReview of proposed bibliographies to be taken to the Theater by various planning groups. In this task, the accumulated knowledge of 0SS staff members was of great help to the CASA planning sections.\n\nThis category of functions contains some of the most outstanding services performed by the Outpost. These services were rendered to various divisions and in some instances were of incalculable benefit to CASA and the Military Government program for the Far East. Among the most noteworthy of these services, are the following:\n\nFrom its inception, the Outpost included in its staff a map intelligence analyst. The analyst selected and recommended all the maps for map packets in the prefectural project, procured and maintained on a catalogue basis all important maps covering the Far East and provided maps for cartographers making maps for the prefectural project. The collection was estimated at approximately 30,000 sheets and this represented virtually the heart of all map activity at CASA. Not only did the analyst provide maps, but he also prepared written articles, met with discussion groups and served as an expert consultant to CASA groups on all map matters. For example, in arriving at a decision as to what maps were to be included in kits for Military Government officers, the primary selection was made by the map intelligence analyst. The CASA map instruction program was revised with his assistance. Requests made upon the Outpost for service averaged upward of 300 each month and there was at all times a large number of maps in circulation. Requests originated largely from the Training Division (S-3) and the Planning and Research Division (S-5), but OSS also provided, maps required for a variety of purposes, from supplying maps for the map-room operated by S-2 to meeting occasional requests from Fort Ord. Maps provided, covered a wide range in scales topics subject and purpose. Although OSS came as a consultant and therefore could not attempt to supply maps in quantity, help was given CASA in obtaining maps through the Army Map Service, and the development of a map function by the CASA library was accomplished with the help of OSS.\n\nAlthough the Outpost maintained a large collection of classified documents covering the Far East, there was careful avoidance of assuming a library function. The Outpost did, however, maintain close liaison with the CASA library and endeavored to be helpful in obtaining various materials needed for planning and training. The OSS experts were familiar with all types of source material, both domestic and foreign, and provided much information on what was needed and where it was obtainable.\n\nIn a very few weeks the Outpost built up an impressive collection of the best available documentary intelligence on the Far East. This collection was constantly increased through the close cooperation of OSS/Washington, various OSS offices in continental United States, and offices and Outposts throughout the world. Some of the documents maintained by the OSS Outpost included.\n\n\nThis file consisted of approximately 15,000 items covering key Japanese personalities. Not only was the file of great value to the prefectural project, but also to training groups and to various planning sections.\n\nAlthough the Outpost had clearly specified to CASA that OSS could not provide translation, the dire need at CASA led the agency on several occasions to provide translations by its Outpost staff, by its Washington staff or from other OSS sources. In addition, the Outpost endeavored to help CASA obtain an adequate number of translators so that CASA could more effectively do its job.\n\nFor about three months after its inception the Outpost published a weekly bulletin entitled, \"Far East Intelligence Notes\" This weekly contained various analytical articles prepared by Outpost personnel and was based upon information from classified sources and of interest to Military Government officers. The Notes frequently included maps. The pressure of work led to the suspension of the weekly and the Outpost began irregular publication of \"Special Intelligence Reports\" Each report covered one topic, was concerned with Military Government problems in the Far East and was issued at intervals of ten days to two weeks. As in the case of the \"Far East Intelligence Notes,\" information was drawn from classified sources. The circulation list of the Notes was small but impressive. Copies were sent to all Civil Affairs Training Schools, to the School of Military Government, Charlottesville, Virginia, to the OSS Washington, to the Civil Affairs Division, Washington, to the Provost Marshal General's Office, Washington to CinCPAC (Commander in Chief Pacific), CinCPOA (Commander in Chief Pacific Ocean Areas) and to various OSS outposts. The Reports were distributed only at CASA.\n\nFrom: \"Casalog\" Vol I, No 2, 18 April 1945, \nROOSEVELT MEMORIAL CEREMONY 14 April 1945. \nCASA paid tribute to Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the man who gave his life for humanity, at one o'clock last Saturday afternoon on Soldier's Field. At the same time, (4 PM Eastern War Time) simple funeral services were being held in the East Room of the White House, where his body lay draped in state. The ceremony here was part of the memorial service conducted by all Army installations in this country and many overseas. It was attended by all CASA training companies. Headquarters Company, Ship's Company, members of the CASA staff, and civilian employees. Concerning President Roosevelt, Colonel Hardy C. Dillard, Commanding Officer, said, \n\nFrom: \"Casalog\" Vol I, No 2, 18 April 1945, \nAWARD OF BRONZE STAR TO LT COL PRESLEY W. MELTON. 25 April 1945.\nCivil Affairs activities received additional recognition ... when Lieutenant Colonel Presley W. Melton, Ordnance Corps, received the Bronze Star for meritorious service in connection with military operations as a member of the G-5 Section of General Eisenhower's Headquarters, European Theater of Operations. The award was presented at a simple ceremony before the CASA staff by Colonel Hardy C. Dillard, Commanding Officer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27906852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27906852", "title": "Climate of East Anglia", "text": "Climate of East Anglia\n\nThe climate of East Anglia is generally dry and mild. The region is among the driest in the United Kingdom with many areas receiving less than 700mm of rainfall a yearand locations such as Lowestoft less than 600 mm on average. Rainfall is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year.\n\nMaximum temperatures range from 5–10 °C (41–50 °F) in the winter to 20–25 °C (68–77 °F) in the summer, although temperatures have been known to reach 35 °C (95 °F). Sunshine totals tend to be higher towards the coastal areas.\n"}
{"id": "56332298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56332298", "title": "Cultural keystone species", "text": "Cultural keystone species\n\nThe cultural keystone species concept, first proposed by Sergio Cristancho and Joanne Vining in 2000 and later described by ethnobotanist Ann Garibaldi and ethnobiologist Nancy Turner in 2004, is a \"metaphorical parallel\" to the ecological keystone species concept, and may be useful for biodiversity conservation and ecological restoration. Cultural keystone species are species of exceptional significance to a culture or a people, and can be identified by their prevalence in language, cultural practices (e.g. ceremonies), traditions, diet, medicines, material items, and histories of a community. These species influence social systems and culture and are a key feature of a community's identity.\n\nThe exact definition of cultural keystone species remains under debate and is considered to be more abstract than the related ecological concept. Garibaldi and Turner emphasize that the cultural keystone species concept is not an extension of ecological keystone species, but rather a parallel concept that bridges social and physical sciences, as well as indigenous knowledge and western knowledge, to offer a more holistic approach. Other researchers debate whether or not cultural keystone species are different from economically important species. Additionally, it is argued that the concept will be reduced to a biological term if it only focuses on specific species, but this may be solved by considering cultural keystone species as a \"complex\" that develops based on the ways that the species is used and its impacts on cultural practices over time, through conscious social practices, decision-making processes, and changes to societal needs and practices.\n\nGaribaldi and Turner outline six elements that should be considered when identifying a cultural keystone species:\n\nNot all cultural keystone species are beneficial to a community or an ecosystem, particularly when the species is considered invasive. One example of this is the Australian \"Eucalyptus\" tree that is now widespread in California and is considered to be culturally important because of its aesthetic value and dietary uses. However, the tree is a threat to native species and has drastically impacted the ecosystems it is found in.\n\nThe cultural keystone species concept may have important applications for conservation and ecological restoration initiatives because these species may serve as a starting point from which to identify the needs of both the community and the ecosystem. Cultural keystone species reinforce the close relationships between communities and their surrounding environments, particularly for indigenous communities currently facing environmental and economic challenges. These species may offer information about an ecosystem or a community's resilience, and their identification can support the survival of communities who depend on a cultural keystone species. It is argued that these species should play a role in environmental policy, for example in the Cultural Impact Assessment of the United Nations Environment Programme, to connect cultural and ecological conservation for indigenous peoples. Legal recognition of cultural keystone species can also improve social justice, ensure continuation of indigenous practices, and promote inclusive social-ecological management practices.\n\nResearchers have also found that identification of cultural keystone species supports the integration of indigenous perspectives on environmental stewardship and improved natural resource management practices. The application of the concept can support the development of innovative methods to conserve natural resources as a result of this integration. Additionally, \"invisible losses\" can be avoided because the identification of these species includes consideration of the cultural and social importance of a species.\n\nThe white pine (\"Pinus strobus\" L.), found across northeastern North America, is a cultural keystone species for the Kitcisakik Algonquin community in Quebec. The tree is prevalent in legends and myths that are central to the culture, history, and identity of the Kitcisakik. The tree is said to offer protection to the people because of its large size when mature, and provides a home to bald eagles, a sacred species for Algonquin societies. Parts of the tree are also used in material goods and medicines, and the species is considered to be irreplaceable by the Kitcisakik, who rely on the services the white pine offers to both humans and the environment.\n\nThe white pine is currently threatened by logging and environmental changes and the Kitcisakik are central in efforts to modify practices so that the species will survive. The researchers that identified the white pine as the cultural keystone species of the Kitcisakik using Garibaldi and Turner's methodology and community interviews note that the tree is not only culturally significant, but ecologically as well - it provides services to animals such as birds, moose, and marten. The identification of this tree as a cultural keystone species offers insight into how and why culturally important components of the environment should be considered when developing natural resource management and restoration strategies. The inclusion of the white pine's cultural significance in these strategies may ensure that cultural needs are considered alongside environmental and economic priorities.\n"}
{"id": "39511059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39511059", "title": "Dryden Wind Turbulence Model", "text": "Dryden Wind Turbulence Model\n\nThe Dryden wind turbulence model, also known as Dryden gusts, is a mathematical model of continuous gusts accepted for use by the United States Department of Defense in certain aircraft design and simulation applications. The Dryden model treats the linear and angular velocity components of continuous gusts as spatially varying stochastic processes and specifies each component's power spectral density. The Dryden wind turbulence model is characterized by rational power spectral densities, so exact filters can be designed that take white noise inputs and output stochastic processes with the Dryden gusts' power spectral densities.\n\nThe Dryden model, named after Hugh Dryden, is one of the most commonly used models of continuous gusts. It was first published in 1952.\n\nThe Dryden model is characterized by power spectral densities for gusts' three linear velocity components (\"u\",\"v\",\"w\"),\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere \"σ\" and \"L\" are the turbulence intensity and scale length, respectively, for the \"i\"th velocity component, and \"Ω\" is a spatial frequency. These power spectral densities give the stochastic process spatial variations, but any temporal variations rely on vehicle motion through the gust velocity field. The speed with which the vehicle is moving through the gust field \"V\" allows conversion of these power spectral densities to different types of frequencies,\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere ω has units of radians per unit time.\n\nThe gust angular velocity components (\"p\",\"q\",\"r\") are defined as the variations of the linear velocity components along the different vehicle axes,\n\nformula_3\n\nthough different sign conventions may be used in some sources. The power spectral densities for the angular velocity components are\n\nformula_4\n\nThe military specifications give criteria based on vehicle stability derivatives to determine whether the gust angular velocity components are significant.\n\nThe gusts generated by the Dryden model are not white noise processes and therefore may be referred to as colored noise. Colored noise may, in some circumstances, be generated as the output of a minimum phase linear filter through a process known as spectral factorization. Consider a linear time invariant system with a white noise input that has unit variance, transfer function \"G\"(\"s\"), and output \"y\"(\"t\"). The power spectral density of \"y\"(\"t\") is\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere \"i\" = -1. For rational power spectral densities, such as that of the Dryden model, a suitable transfer function can be found whose magnitude squared evaluated along the imaginary axis is the power spectral density. The MATLAB documentation provides a realization of such a transfer function for Dryden gusts that is consistent with the military specifications,\n\nformula_6\n\nDriving these filters with independent, unit variance, band-limited white noise yields outputs with power spectral densities that match the spectra of the velocity components of the Dryden model. The outputs can, in turn, be used as wind disturbance inputs for aircraft or other dynamic systems.\n\nThe Dryden model is parameterized by a length scale and turbulence intensity. The combination of these two parameters determines the shape of the power spectral densities and therefore the quality of the model's fit to spectra of observed turbulence. Many combinations of length scale and turbulence intensity give realistic power spectral densities in the desired frequency ranges. The Department of Defense specifications include choices for both parameters, including their dependence on altitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "580130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580130", "title": "Earth Alliance (Babylon 5)", "text": "Earth Alliance (Babylon 5)\n\nThe Earth Alliance is the name of a fictional alliance of the nations of Earth and off-world colonies in the television series \"Babylon 5\". The transition of Earth government from a democratic, elected government to an authoritarian, militaristic one and back to a democracy again is a major theme of the series. It is considered one of the five major galactic diplomatic/military powers (Earth Alliance, Narn Regime, Minbari Federation, Centauri Republic and the Vorlon Empire) in the Babylon 5 pilot episode movie \"\". They have separate seats at the head of the council chambers on the Babylon 5 station. The League of Non-Aligned Worlds sit in the general assembly section. The Vorlons departed from the galaxy along with the Shadows and the last few remaining First Ones, leaving the galaxy to the younger races.\n\nThe Earth Alliance is one of the galaxy's major powers, arguably the strongest of the younger races (the other being the Minbari federation) in the Babylon 5 universe. Besides Earth, the Alliance includes 23 colonies; some of the more prominent colonies are on Mars, Orion 7, and Proxima 3. One reason for humanity's rapid settlement of the galaxy is the use of long-range Explorer class starships that can build jumpgates; the jumpgates allow colony ships and supply vessels to easily move from one Earth colony to the next. \n\nAside from Babylon 5 itself, the most common human space stations mentioned in the B5 universe are wheel-shaped, Stanford torus design space stations. These stations rotate to produce pseudogravity. They appear to have a standardized design with few internal variations. The oft-mentioned \"Io Station\" that maintained the principal jumpgate into and out of Earth's Solar System is an example of one of these. Garibaldi also mentions one of these stations is \"near Mars\" in the episode \"TKO\", one is seen orbiting Earth on one occasion and another was visibly destroyed when the Minbari followed the Earth ships back to their base at the start of the Earth-Minbari war.\n\nThe military force of the Earth Alliance is called EarthForce. EarthForce has the largest military of any of the younger races with some estimates and hull markings on Earthships pointing to EarthForce having over 20,000 ships during the Babylon 5 timeframe. EarthForce is the only race to have ever created a \"Super Soldier\", which could move at incredible speeds and crush others without effort. EarthForce is also the only race to ever have built, and sustain massive amounts of shadow technology. EarthForce created the Omega-Shadow hybrid in season 4, and later on, in the Crusade, EarthForce had built a full blown shadow ship that fired the shadow slicer death ray. EarthForce had ships so powerful due to many black-ops projects and gaining shadow technology, that Earth arguably built the strongest ships of any of the younger races: the Warlock class destroyer and the Shadow Hybrid seen in Crusade.\n\nIt is separated into three sections:\nEarthForce members may transfer between divisions - Dr. Stephen Franklin's father was a former Navy officer (he served as first officer on an Earth starship), but by the time we meet him, he is a Marine general. All three branches use a mixed rank system, incorporating Army and Navy style ranks.\n\nThe Earth Alliance was founded in 2085 by the countries of Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, the Netherlands, Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United States in the aftermath of World War III to replace the ineffectual United Nations. The founding nations also made a strong attempt to explore space by setting up bases on the moon and a colony on Mars by 2090.\n\nThe government of the Earth Alliance is called EarthGov and is based in Geneva, Switzerland. The Earth Alliance is a representative liberal democracy for most of the series. Earthgov is regulated by the Earth Alliance Constitution, which bears a strong resemblance to the United States Constitution and the British Parliamentary form of government (the Westminster system). The Chief Executive of Earthgov is the President, who in turn has a Vice-President and other assistants called ministers. The legislature is called the Earth Senate, which consists of representatives from the Earth's nation-states. By 2132, the Earth Alliance had become the official governing body of humanity and Earth. However, some nations resisted joining the Earth Alliance, and they eventually resorted to violence to try to disrupt it. After San Diego was destroyed by a nuclear terrorist attack in 2157, the Earth Alliance defeated all opposing nations in a brief war, and the Earth Alliance became a true global government. Although the Earth is united under this government, individual nation-states still exist in the Babylon 5 universe, and some nations still complain about Alliance policies, such as when the Interstellar Network News reported that Indonesia's government had complained it was not receiving its fair share of financial aid from Earthgov.\n\nThe Earth Alliance began sending ships into space in which people had been put into stasis in the hopes of finding alien life. In 2156, a Centauri patrol fleet made contact with Earth.\n\nAfter making first contact with the Centauri, the Earth Alliance saw massive growth. With technology purchased from the Centauri (chiefly with artistic and cultural items), the Alliance was able to technologically advance hundreds of years in just a few decades. Humans began establishing footholds in other star systems. After the expansion brought Earth into conflict with a number of alien races, a military organization called EarthForce was created by the Alliance to protect Earth and her colonies from alien attack. In 2230, in response to pleas for help from the League of Non-Aligned Worlds, the Earth Alliance joined the war against the Dilgar. The Dilgar were a warlike species, they brutally invaded and conquered numerous worlds, using aliens in sadistic medical and scientific experiments. Two years after the Earth Alliance's entry into the war, the Dilgar were defeated and driven from the League territories back to Omelos. Earth gained great influence among numerous alien governments (see Dilgar War).\n\nAfter the Dilgar War, the Earth Alliance entered another round of expansion. However, in 2245 the Earth Alliance had a disastrous first contact with a reclusive alien race called the Minbari, resulting in the devastating Earth-Minbari War. The Minbari had been a space-faring race for at least a thousand years and wielded powerful technology, surpassing the capabilities and resources of the younger races at that time. The Minbari Sharlin Warcruisers possessed powerful \"slicer\" beams which could fire from a superior range, as well as an advanced form of stealth technology which prevented the Earth Alliance ships from achieving an automatic target lock, leaving only the option of an ineffective manual lock instead. EarthForce ships and soldiers fought bravely, but after two years of bloody fighting and heavy losses for the Earth Alliance (Some of the losses for the Minbari included 2 Sharlin Warcruisers, 3 Heavy Cruisers and an unknown amount of ground forces) the Minbari headed straight for Earth, bypassing the remaining colonies, and intending to let this war reach its genocidal conclusion. The final and most desperate battle of the war was the Battle of the Line, where the Minbari abruptly surrendered after they found the human pilot they captured, Jeffrey Sinclair, was they believed the reincarnation of their greatest leader Valen.\n\nIn the years after the Earth-Minbari War, the Earth Alliance began a massive effort to rebuild its military strength. Great emphasis was placed upon the development of new and improved weapons and warships. By 2257 a planetary defense grid protected the Earth; the defense grid consisted of orbital platforms armed with antiship missiles, particle-beam cannons, and plasma energy cannons. Additionally, larger and more powerful warships, such as the new Omega-class Destroyers, were built, and a new class of fighter was developed that was faster and better-armed than the older versions, and which could fly into a planetary atmosphere as well as space. The Earth Alliance also hoped to prevent another war by starting the Babylon Project. With help from the Minbari, the Earth Alliance planned to construct an enormous space station which would serve to create better understanding between humans and aliens, and would allow ambassadors from various galactic governments to peacefully debate their differences without resorting to war. The first three Babylon stations were sabotaged or destroyed by anti-alien terrorists from Earth. The Babylon 4 station was successfully built, but it mysteriously vanished just a few hours before coming on-line. Finally, the Babylon 5 station was built and opened in 2257 to interstellar commerce and diplomacy.\n\nHowever, despite the successful opening of Babylon 5, trouble was brewing within the Earth Alliance. A growing number of people within Earthgov - including high-level politicians, generals, and members of PsiCorps - became determined to sabotage the Babylon Project. These people were deeply suspicious of alien races (especially the Minbari) and wanted Earth to become more isolationist and xenophobic. Eventually this group was aided by a mysterious man named Morden, who spoke for an ancient and extremely powerful alien race known only as the Shadows. With Morden's help and encouragement, a group of Earthgov officials, led by Vice-President Morgan Clark, conspired to assassinate Luis Santiago, the President of the Earth Alliance. In 2258 Santiago was brutally assassinated with his staff and crew in an \"accidental\" explosion of his starship, EarthForce One, and Vice-President Clark assumed the Presidency. Clark had abandoned a goodwill tour and left EarthForce One with an alleged viral infection. Once secure in office, Clark secretly but steadily put his loyal followers in positions to control EarthForce and EarthGov. He also began turning the Earth Alliance into a fascist, Orwellian military state, organizing groups such as \"Nightwatch\", a para-military police force, to spy on \"disloyal\" humans. He also renamed several Earthgov agencies, so that the Ministry of Defense became the \"Ministry of Peace\", and the Ministry of Information became the \"Ministry of Truth\". However, the Chairman of the EarthForce Joint Chiefs of Staff, General William Hague, suspected foul play in Santiago's death. He covertly formed his own network to uncover the truth. If Clark was implicated, Hague planned to present his evidence to the Earth Senate to have Clark impeached and removed from office. One of the members of Hague's network was Captain John Sheridan, a hero of the Earth-Minbari war and the commander of Babylon 5. Sheridan eventually brought the rest of Babylon 5's command staff into the network, and together they slowly but steadily accumulated evidence implicating Clark in Santiago's death.\n\nIn 2260 Commander Susan Ivanova, B5's executive officer, uncovered solid proof that Clark had planned and participated in President Santiago's death. When this evidence was presented to the Earth Senate, Clark suddenly declared martial law and suspended the Earth Alliance Constitution, using an attack on an EarthForce research facility as cause to enact such orders. Now a dictator in all but name, Clark disbanded the Earth Senate, placed military troops in charge of all the Earth's major cities, crushed any open opposition, and seized control of the news media, such as the Interstellar Network News. He used the news media to spread propaganda supporting his views and to broadcast the lie that he declared martial law to prevent aliens from taking control of the Earth. Such traditional rights as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and free elections were all abolished by Clark.\n\nHowever, a resistance movement quickly developed. Led by General Hague, a number of EarthForce warships refused to obey Clark's orders and started a rebellion. Several Earth colonies, such as Mars, refused to carry out Clark's martial law orders; EarthForce ships loyal to Clark then bombed Mars and attacked any colony which resisted Clark's rule. Two major Earth colonies, Proxima 3 and Orion 7, seceded from the Earth Alliance; they were joined by Babylon 5. This led Clark to send a sizable fleet of warships loyal to him to seize control of Babylon 5 and arrest its command staff. However, Captain Sheridan joined with the rebel Earth warships EAS \"Churchill\" and \"EAS Alexander\", and Minbari warships, to defeat the attacking Earth fleet and force them to retreat. Babylon 5 then became an independent state, and was cut off from the Earth Alliance for the next two years. However, the Civil War quickly took a backseat to the second Shadow War, and Babylon 5's command staff paid little attention to events in the Earth Alliance until that epic conflict was over.\n\nAfter the second Shadow War ended, Captain Sheridan turned his attention to overthrowing President Clark and liberating Earth and its colonies. A key turning point came when warships were ordered by Clark to lay siege to the rebellious Proxima 3 colony to keep it within the Earth Alliance. When warships loyal to Clark attacked and killed 10,000 innocent civilians trying to escape, Sheridan took his highly advanced White Star fleet to save the colony. In a brief but brutal battle, Sheridan's White Stars disabled or destroyed several Omega class destroyers; but his victory was mainly due to the fact that he convinced several (more than half) of the EarthForce destroyers present at the battle to switch to Sheridan's side. Sheridan and the White Star he was in was seconds away from being destroyed by a hostile EarthForce Omega class destroyer that had a complete lock on his White Star, but the Captain was removed from firing control by the crew just seconds before the EarthForce Omega could open fire on Sheridan's ship, thus saving Sheridan's and Marcus's life. After liberating Proxima 3, Sheridan's fleet began to move towards Earth.\n\nAs they traveled they steadily picked up an increasing number of EarthForce destroyers and cruisers whose crews could no longer support Clark and his fascist regime. However, many EarthForce vessels remained loyal to Clark, and as a result numerous battles took place, resulting in the destruction of many White Stars and several lost battles for Sheridan and his White-Star fleet. Sheridan said he had lost a few battles fighting Clark, but was \"damn sure not to tell anyone about it\". The battles between Earthforce ships and the White Star fleet were always a disaster for both sides, but in the end, Sheridan was the victor after most battles because he was able to convince many EarthForce ships to join his side.\nIn an effort to undermine Sheridan's supporters on Earth, Clark began to spread propaganda that Sheridan was under sinister alien (especially Minbari) influence. To discourage EarthForce crews from defecting to Sheridan, the crews were told that Sheridan killed all humans found aboard captured Earth ships and replaced them with Minbari crews.\n\nIn such an event, one captain quickly dispelled those propaganda, calling it a \"load of crap\". As Sheridan's forces neared Earth's solar system, Clark unleashed his secret weapon - a squadron of six (6) Omega-Class Destroyers which had been upgraded with Shadow technology consisting of Shadow bio-armor and Shadow particle beams (colored blue/green) which had the capability of destroying a White Star in a single shot. All of the Omega-X destroyers were believed to be destroyed (but not confirmed) in a very fierce battle by a large squadron of White Stars (over 20 White Stars took part in this battle) under Commander Susan Ivanova but most of the White Stars were destroyed or suffered severe damage. Ivanova's ship was badly damaged and she was severely injured. Sheridan was captured by EarthForce in a trap and tortured in an Earthgov facility on Mars but was eventually rescued by the \"Free Mars\" rebel movement; he subsequently recovered and returned to his fleet.\n\nHe then approached Mars with a massive armada of White Stars, EarthForce vessels that had defected to him, and a large number of warships from various alien governments who had joined him in a show of support. Sheridan and his fleet was almost certain to lose facing such a massive EarthForce fleet of Omega class ships (33 Omega Class ships plus the Earth Defense grid which had massive anti-ship capabilities). However, Sheridan had a trick up his sleeve, and had already secretly slipped Shadow-modified telepaths onboard 30 of the EarthForce Omegas loyal to Clark; several of these telepaths merged with the destroyers' computer systems and disabled them, the unaffected destroyers quickly being disabled by the rebel fleet. This way, Sheridan defeated the loyalist fleet without being forced to destroy any of the ships, saving the lives of the crews and pilots on both sides, keeping Earth's military capabilities intact and avoiding a defeat right at the end of the war. The Omega-Class destroyers loyal to Clark were led by General Lefcourt, a close friend of Sheridan who had served as his mentor at the EarthForce Academy. Sheridan then led his fleet to Earth itself, where the only thing left protecting Earth was the Earth defense grid (as the 33 Omega class destroyers were still disabled). The Earth defense grid opened fire and destroyed many of the ships being led by Sheridan. While this intense battle took place above Earth people inside Earthdome marched to Clarks office to place the president under arrest, but before they could reach him Clark committed suicide, choosing death over being taken prisoner by Earthgov personnel.\n\nBefore killing himself, Clark turned the planetary defense grid towards the Earth's surface, to scorch the earth. To prevent the planet from being devastated, Sheridan's fleet destroyed the defense grid before any damage was done to the planet. Sheridan's ship Agamemnon was saved from destruction in the battle by General Lefcourt's destroyer Apollo, which had just arrived from Mars. With Clark's death, Senator Susanna Luchenko of the Russian Consortium was named the new Earth Alliance President. In a prior agreement with the Free Mars movement, Sheridan convinced President Luchenko to grant Mars its independence. With Clark's downfall, martial law was ended and democracy and the Earth Alliance Constitution were restored.\n\nPresident Luchenko and the newly reformed democratic government of the Earth Alliance joined the Interstellar Alliance in 2262, not long after its initial formation by John Sheridan and Delenn. The deal was that Earth would join if she allowed Mars' independence and withdrew all troops from the rebellious colonies that wished to remain independent. Earth would receive artificial gravity technology from the Minbari upon entrance to the Alliance. By 2267 Earth had gained enough access to advanced technology to take part in a joint research and development program with the Minbari, for a large scale tactical warship. The results were the Warlock class destroyer and the Victory class destroyer. The Victory class was fitted with highly advanced weapon and armor technologies and even a Vorlon primary weapon and Minbari stealth technology. The ship was over 2 miles long and highly maneuverable.\n\nThe details of Martian independence is unclear: during the series \"Crusade\" it is described as \"an independent member of the Earth Alliance\". \n\nIn that year the Drakh attacked Earth but their attack failed and their forces destroyed but the Drakh started a plague that would kill all humans on Earth within 5 years if not stopped. The Alliance then loaned the surviving Victory class prototype the IAS Excalibur to the Earth Alliance to help find a cure to the plague. \n\nAfter Earth defeated the Drakh, it is believed that EarthForce gained even more technology from the many destroyed Drakh ships and the floating debris.\n\nAt the end of season four of Babylon 5 it was shown that Earth remained a member of the Interstellar Alliance (ISA) for 500 years after its initial membership. However, Earth was on the brink of another civil war. Two camps had arisen, one supporting continued membership in the ISA and the Politdivision, opposing it. A hologram of Michael Garibaldi recorded the Politdivision's war plan, and broadcast it to the ISA and the pro-ISA faction. This early warning of a pre-emptive strike and the ensuing conflict resulted in the Politdivision's destruction and the devastation of Earth, known as 'The Great Burn'. In the aftermath, civilisation fell back into something akin to the Middle Ages.\n\nThe ISA sent Human Rangers to slowly and covertly rebuild Earth, under the guise of the rediscovery of old technologies, thus rebuilding confidence as well as the civilisation. One million years after the foundation of the ISA, an Anla'shok (Ranger) is seen collecting the last of the records of Earth's history, proving that Earth did rejoin the Alliance. It was also shown that humanity had evolved into energy-based beings possessing technology similar in nature to the long vanished Vorlons but their appearance is akin to the effect for Lorien.\n\n"}
{"id": "28016073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28016073", "title": "El mono Hernández Cork Forest Flora and Fauna Sanctuary", "text": "El mono Hernández Cork Forest Flora and Fauna Sanctuary\n\nThe \"El mono Hernández\" Cork Forest Flora and Fauna Sanctuary () is a natural monument located in the Sucre and Bolívar Departments on the coast of the Caribbean Region of Colombia.\n\nThe park is named in honor of Colombian naturalist Jorge Ignacio \"El Mono\" Hernández-Camacho (1935–2001), one of the founders of Colombia's National Natural Park System.\n\nAverage temperature is 28°C and yearly rainfall is 1100 mm with the largest precipitation in April and November. The warmest months are June and July, and the driest period is between December and April.\n\nMangrove and cork swamp forests are protected within the area. Mangroves covers about half of the area, located in the western and northern parts of the sanctuary. The mangroves are dominated by five species, red mangrove, black mangrove, white mangrove, buttonwood and neotropical mangrove. The swamps is the only place in the Colombian Caribbean Region where pure \"corchales\", \"cork\" forests, grow, dominated by \"Pterocarpus officinalis\", and with a total area of 401 hectares.\n\nIt is home to 153 species of birds, the great diversity is due to the quantity of food produced in the surrounding waters. A number of species feed on the marsh vegetation, including the endangered West Indian manatee. Other noteworthy animals are the jaguar, brown caiman and howler monkey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25214341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25214341", "title": "Fen-meadow", "text": "Fen-meadow\n\nA Fen-meadow is a habitat that occurs in numerous locations throughout northern and western Europe. This habitat is generally found in damp lowland areas. The hydrology of fen-meadows are typically groundwater-dependent ecosystems.\n\nThere are several distinct plant associations that may comprise a fen-meadow including the Juncus subnodulosus-Cirsium palustre association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11034502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11034502", "title": "Fluvioglacial landform", "text": "Fluvioglacial landform\n\nFluvioglacial landforms are landforms molded by glacial meltwater. This discharge of glacial streams, both over the surface (supraglacial) and beneath the ice sheet (subglacial), is higher in the warmer summer months. As subglacial water often flows under pressure, it has a high velocity and is very turbulent. This high velocity enables it to transport a large amount of material which would not normally be transported in a regular stream of similar size; boulders thus transported may remain as glacial erratics in the post-glacial terrain. As this material is transported it makes contact with the underside of a glacier and erodes vertically from below by abrasion. This erosion creates subglacial valleys. When there is a decrease in discharge of the glacial steams, deposition occurs, and is responsible for large groupings of landforms like eskers and drumlins in glaciated areas.\n\nPro-glacial lakes leave their own passive impress on the glaciated landscape, recognizable by the flatness of the former lakebed and raised terraces that mark former shorelines.\n\nMore active massive scouring occurs when ice dams of pro-glacial lakes fail catastrophically in a glacial lake outburst flood; the results can be seen, for example in the Channeled Scablands in the U.S. state of Washington, created by the cataclysmic Missoula Floods that swept periodically across eastern Washington and down the Columbia River Plateau during the Pleistocene epoch. The Shonkin Sag along the northern edge of the Highwood Mountains, Montana, is a channel formed by the Missouri River and glacial meltwater pouring from Glacial Lake Great Falls; it is one of the most famous prehistoric meltwater channels in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "1766549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1766549", "title": "Fountain of Life", "text": "Fountain of Life\n\nThe Fountain of Life, or in its earlier form the Fountain of Living Waters, is a Christian iconography symbol associated with baptism and/or eucharist, first appearing in the 5th century in illuminated manuscripts and later in other art forms such as panel paintings.\n\nThe symbol is usually shown as a fountain enclosed in a hexagonal structure capped by a rounded dome and supported by eight columns. The fountain of living waters, \"fons vivus\" is a baptismal font (a water fountain in which one is baptized, and thus reborn with Christ), and is often surrounded by animals associated with Baptism such as the hart. The font probably represents the octagonal Lateran Baptistery in Rome, consecrated by Pope Sixtus III (432-440), which was iconographically associated with the fountain of the water of life mentioned in .\n\nThe best examples date from the Carolingian period: the Godescalc Evangelistary made to commemorate the Baptism of the son of Charlemagne in 781, and in the Soissons Gospels.\n\nIn the \"Ghent Altarpiece: The Adoration of the Lamb\" by Jan van Eyck (1438), the Lamb of God stands upon an altar dressed as for the Mass of the Precious Blood, with a blood-red frontal: the Lamb's blood is caught in a chalice, and its Eucharistic intention is signaled by the dove of the Holy Spirit above. In the foreground, offering the other means of grace, is the Fountain of the Living Water surrounded by the faithful. In the Prado, Madrid, is the \"Fountain of Living Water\" emanating from the Lamb of God, in which the open fountain is set into the outer wall of Heaven. That the water is not merely the purifying water of baptism is shown by the innumerable wafers that float upon its surface: the two sacraments are represented as one.\n\nIn a miniature in a Book of Hours, probably painted at Ghent at the end of the 15th century, the Fountain of Living Water has given way to a fountain of blood, the Fountain of Life. in which the figure of Christ stands upon a Gothic pedestal at the center and fills the fountain from his wounds, though the aureole that surrounds him identifies him as the transfigured Christ and the location as Paradise. \n\nIn Flanders at the close of the Middle Ages an intense devotion to the Precious Blood of Christ gave rise to an iconographic tradition of the 15th and 16th centuries, which rendered the theological concept of Grace, expressing Roman Catholic dogma allegorically as a fountain of blood. This transformation was first addressed in Evelyn Underhill in 1910, taking her point of departure an \"Assembly of Saints and the Fountain of Life\" of 1596 in Ghent, in which blood from the five Holy Wounds of Christ into the upper basin of a \"Fountain of Life\" and streams out through openings in the lower \"Fountain of Mercy\". Saints and martyrs, patriarchs and prophets hold golden chalices of blood, which some empty into the fountain. Below the faithful hold out their hearts to receive droplets of blood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25214567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25214567", "title": "Historia Naturalis Brasiliae", "text": "Historia Naturalis Brasiliae\n\nHistoria Naturalis Brasiliae (), originally written in Latin, is the first scientific work on the natural history of Brazil, written by Dutch naturalist Willem Piso and research by German scientist Georg Marcgraf, published in 1648. The work includes observations made by the German naturalist H. Gralitzio, in addition to humanist Johannes de Laet. It was dedicated to Johan Maurits, Count of Nassau, who was the patron of the project during the period of Dutch rule in Brazil.\n\nThough referring to Brazil generally throughout the text, the authors' research was of the coastal strip of the Northeast, occupied by the Dutch West India Company. It is based on Marcgraf and Piso's time in Brazil, starting in 1637. It offers an important early European insight into Brazilian flora and fauna by analyzing plants and animals and studying tropical diseases and indigenous therapies. Also included is William Piso's interpretation and first opinions of the indigenous people who he would go on to describe as barbarous and lacking in science. This would lead to concern amongst Piso and his contemporaries that these people might not be able to contribute to studying medicine and botany.\n\nIt was edited, as stated on its title page, in: \"Lugdun. Batavorum: Apud Franciscum Hackium ; et Amstelodami: Apud Lud. Elzevirium\". \"Elzevirium\" is the Latin name of the prestigious Elsevier publisher, which still exists.\n\nThe work consists of a single volume, originally measuring 40 centimeters (height) and its full title, with subtitle, is: \"\" Historia naturalis Brasiliae ...: in qua non tantum plantae et animalia, sed et indigenarum morbi, ingenia et mores describuntur et iconibus supra quingentas illustrantur \" \".\n\nThe Brazilian physician and researcher Juliano Moreira said of the work: This clearly masterful work, when carefully reexamined, shows, at each perquisition, new excellences, and thus it is still one of the most authentic glories of Dutch medical literature. We owe to Pies a description, so accurate and meticulous, of the then reigning endemics in Brazil and the means of treating them. He observed the yaws, tetanus, various types of paralysis, dysentery, hemeralopia, maculopapular. He described Ipecac and emeto - cathartic qualities, which aboriginals used long before the famous doctor Adrian Helvetius, grandfather of the notable French philosopher Claudio Adriano Helvetius received from Louis XIV a thousand louis gold, titles and honors for having discovered exactly those same therapeutic virtues. The Treaty of Helvetius titled \"\"Remède contre le cours du ventre\".\n\nThe work circulated widely in northern Europe and beyond, so that while it detailed the flora and fauna of coastal South America, it was an important publication for those working elsewhere. Richly illustrated scientific texts allowed knowledge to be disseminated even when scholars themselves could not travel to the research site. The work remained unsurpassed until the nineteenth century, and between its initial publication and subsequent research it remained highly influential. Diverse writers referred to the text, including Miguel Venegas, author of \"Noticia de la California\" (1757), Anglo-American Protestant theologian Cotton Mather, who saw in the text evidence of divine planning; and amateur American naturalist Thomas Jefferson, who mentioned Marcgraf in his \"Notes on the State of Virginia\".\n\nThis work would prove to be incredibly influential especially in the field of ecology, being used by a variety of different ecologists in different locations and time. The long lasting influence could be seen outside of just the field of ecology, as well, with various other forms of science utilizing the findings in various ways. In particular, Ole Worm utilized a similar organizational structure when documenting natural history of Denmark while even using some of the images in his work, Museum Wormianum. Carl Linnaeus and Albert Aublet would also use the work of Macgrave in several of their texts and images.\n\nRelevancy was still found in the 20th century with a herbarium being discovered that would contain a hefty amount of items that were used in the Netherlands during the 17th century. The utility of these documents from John Maurice, Prince of Nassau-Siegen were able to assist other researchers and academics even in a more modern context. This discovery would also cause people to seek out a variety of these books detailing herbariums in order to achieves further information that Maurice may have.\n\n"}
{"id": "4739046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739046", "title": "Interlocking spur", "text": "Interlocking spur\n\nAn interlocking spur, also known as an overlapping spur, is one of any of a number of projecting ridges that extend alternately from the opposite sides of the wall of a young, V-shaped valley down which a river with a winding course flows. Each of these spurs extends laterally into a concave bend of the river such that when viewed either upstream or from overhead, the projecting ridges, which are called \"spurs\", appear to \"interlock\" or \"overlap\" in a staggered formation like the teeth of a zipper.\n\nWhile similar in general appearance, the mechanism behind the formation of interlocking spurs is different from that behind meanders, which arise out of a combination of lateral erosion and deposition. Interlocking spurs are formed as either a river or stream cuts its valley into local bedrock. As it entrenches its valley, it preferentially follows and erodes zones of weaknesses within the bedrock that typically consist of intersecting sets of joints. This process creates a zig-zagging fluvial valley that \"interlock\" or \"overlap\" in a staggered manner.\n\nIf the river valley is subsequently subject to glaciation, glacial erosion widens the V-shaped valley and removes the ends of the interlock spurs projecting into the valley. As a result, the ridges are truncated to form \"truncated spurs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1079148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079148", "title": "John Burroughs", "text": "John Burroughs\n\nJohn Burroughs (April 3, 1837 – March 29, 1921) was an American naturalist and nature essayist, active in the U.S. conservation movement. The first of his essay collections was \"Wake-Robin\" in 1871.\n\nIn the words of his biographer Edward Renehan, Burroughs' special identity was less that of a scientific naturalist than that of \"a literary naturalist with a duty to record his own unique perceptions of the natural world.\" The result was a body of work whose resonance with the tone of its cultural moment explains both its popularity at that time, and its relative obscurity since.\n\nBurroughs was the seventh of Chauncy and Amy Kelly Burroughs' ten children. He was born on the family farm in the Catskill Mountains, near Roxbury in Delaware County, New York. As a child he spent many hours on the slopes of Old Clump Mountain, looking off to the east and the higher peaks of the Catskills, especially Slide Mountain, which he would later write about. As he labored on the family farm he was captivated by the return of the birds each spring and other wildlife around the family farm including frogs and bumblebees. In his later years he credited his life as a farm boy for his subsequent love of nature and feeling of kinship with all rural things.\n\nDuring his teen years Burroughs showed a keen interest in learning. Among Burroughs's classmates was future financier Jay Gould. Burroughs' father believed the basic education provided by the local school was enough and refused to support the young Burroughs when he asked for money to pay for the books or the higher education he wanted. At the age of 17 Burroughs left home to earn the money he needed for college by teaching at a school in Olive, New York.\n\nFrom 1854 to 1856 Burroughs alternated periods of teaching with periods of study at higher education institutions including Cooperstown Seminary; he left the Seminary and completed his studies in 1856. He continued to teach until 1863. In 1857 Burroughs left a teaching position in the small village of Buffalo Grove in Illinois to seek employment closer to home, drawn back by \"the girl I left behind me.\" On September 12, 1857, Burroughs married Ursula North (1836–1917). Burroughs later became an atheist with an inclination towards pantheism.\n\nBurroughs had his first break as a writer in the summer of 1860 when the \"Atlantic Monthly\", then a fairly new publication, accepted his essay \"Expression\". Editor James Russell Lowell found the essay so similar to Emerson's work that he initially thought Burroughs had plagiarized his longtime acquaintance. \"Poole's Index\" and \"Hill's Rhetoric\", both periodical indexes, even credited Emerson as the author of the essay.\n\nIn 1864, Burroughs accepted a position as a clerk at the Treasury; he would eventually become a federal bank examiner, continuing in that profession into the 1880s. All the while, he continued to publish essays, and grew interested in the poetry of Walt Whitman. Burroughs met Whitman in Washington, DC in November 1863, and the two became close friends.\n\nWhitman encouraged Burroughs to develop his nature writing as well as his philosophical and literary essays. In 1867, Burroughs published \"Notes on Walt Whitman as Poet and Person\", the first biography and critical work on the poet, which was extensively (and anonymously) revised and edited by Whitman himself before publication. Four years later, the Boston house of Hurd & Houghton published Burroughs's first collection of nature essays, \"Wake-Robin\".\n\nIn January 1873, Burroughs left Washington for New York. The next year he bought a farm in West Park, NY (now part of the Town of Esopus) where he built his Riverby estate. There he grew various crops before eventually focusing on table grapes. He continued to write, and continued as a federal bank examiner for several more years. In 1895 Burroughs bought additional land near Riverby where he and son Julian constructed an Adirondack-style cabin that he called \"Slabsides\". At Slabsides he wrote, grew celery, and entertained visitors, including students from local Vassar College. After the turn of the 20th century, Burroughs renovated an old farmhouse near his birthplace and called it \"Woodchuck Lodge.\" This became his summer residence until his death.\n\nBurroughs accompanied many personalities of the time in his later years, including Theodore Roosevelt, John Muir, Henry Ford (who gave him an automobile, one of the first in the Hudson Valley), Harvey Firestone, and Thomas Edison. In 1899, he participated in E. H. Harriman's expedition to Alaska.\n\nIn 1901, Burroughs met an admirer, Clara Barrus (1864–1931). She was a physician with the state psychiatric hospital in Middletown, N.Y. Clara was 37 and nearly half his age. She was the great love of his life and ultimately his literary executrix. She moved into his house after Ursula died in 1917. She published \"Whitman and Burroughs: Comrades\" in 1931, relying on firsthand accounts and letters to documents Burroughs' friendship with poet Walt Whitman.\n\nIn 1903, after publishing an article entitled \"Real and Sham Natural History\" in the \"Atlantic Monthly\", Burroughs began a widely publicized literary debate known as the nature fakers controversy. Attacking popular writers of the day such as Ernest Thompson Seton, Charles G. D. Roberts and William J. Long for their fantastical representations of wildlife, he also denounced the booming genre of \"naturalistic\" animal stories as \"yellow journalism of the woods\". The controversy lasted for four years and involved American environmental and political figures of the day, including President Theodore Roosevelt, who was friends with Burroughs.\n\nMany of Burroughs' essays first appeared in popular magazines. He is best known for his observations on birds, flowers and rural scenes, but his essay topics also range to religion, philosophy, and literature. Burroughs was a staunch defender of Walt Whitman and Ralph Waldo Emerson, but somewhat critical of Henry David Thoreau, even while praising many of Thoreau's qualities. His achievements as a writer were confirmed by his election as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\nSome of Burroughs' essays came out of trips back to his native Catskills. In the late 1880s, in the essay \"The Heart of the Southern Catskills,\" he chronicled an ascent of Slide Mountain, the highest peak of the Catskills range. Speaking of the view from the summit, he wrote: \"The works of man dwindle, and the original features of the huge globe come out. Every single object or point is dwarfed; the valley of the Hudson is only a wrinkle in the earth's surface. You discover with a feeling of surprise that the great thing is the earth itself, which stretches away on every hand so far beyond your ken.\" The first sentence of this quote is now on a plaque commemorating Burroughs at the mountain's summit, on a rock outcrop known as Burroughs Ledge. Slide and neighboring \"Cornell\" and \"Wittenberg\" mountains, which he also climbed, have been collectively named the Burroughs Range.\n\nOther Catskill essays told of fly fishing for trout, of hikes over Peekamoose Mountain and Mill Brook Ridge, and of rafting down the East Branch of the Delaware River. It is for these that he is still celebrated in the region today, and chiefly known, although he traveled extensively and wrote about other regions and countries, as well as commenting on natural-science controversies of the day such as the theory of natural selection. He entertained philosophical and literary questions, and wrote another book about Whitman in 1896, four years after the poet's death.\n\nFrom his youth, Burroughs was an avid fly fisherman and known among Catskill anglers. Although he never wrote any purely fishing books, he did contribute some notable fishing essays to angling literature. Most notable of these was \"Speckled Trout\", which appeared in the \"Atlantic Monthly\" in October 1870 and was later published in \"In The Catskills.\" In his essay \"Speckled Trout\" Burroughs highlights his experiences as an angler and celebrates the trout, streams and lakes of the Catskills.\n\n\"The Complete Writings of John Burroughs\" totals 23 volumes. The first volume, \"Wake-Robin\", was published in 1871 and subsequent volumes were published regularly until the final volume, \"The Last Harvest\", was published in 1922. The final two volumes, \"Under the Maples\" and \"The Last Harvest\", were published posthumously by Clara Barrus. Burroughs also published a biography of John James Audubon, a memoir of his camping trip to Yellowstone with President Theodore Roosevelt, and a volume of poetry titled \"Bird and Bough\".\n\nBurroughs enjoyed good physical and mental health during his later years until only a few months before his death when he began to experience lapses in memory and show general signs of advanced age including declining heart function. In February 1921 Burroughs underwent an operation to remove an abscess from his chest. Following this operation, his health steadily declined. Burroughs died on March 29, 1921 while on a train near Kingsville, Ohio. Burroughs was buried in Roxbury, New York on what would have been his 84th birthday, at the foot of a rock he had played on as a child and affectionately referred to as '’Boyhood Rock'’. A line that he had written years before is etched on the tablet that marks the spot: \"I stand amid the eternal ways\". Woodchuck Lodge was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962. Riverby and Slabsides were similarly designated in 1968. All three are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSince his death in 1921, John Burroughs has been commemorated by the John Burroughs Association. The association maintains the John Burroughs Sanctuary in Esopus, New York, a 170-acre plot of land surrounding Slabsides, and awards a medal each year to \"the author of a distinguished book of natural history\".\n\nTwelve U.S. schools have been named after Burroughs, including public elementary schools in Washington, DC and Minneapolis, Minnesota, public middle schools in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Los Angeles, a public high school in Burbank, California, and a private secondary school, John Burroughs School, in St. Louis, Missouri. Burroughs Mountain in Mount Rainier National Park is named in his honor.There was a medal named after John Burroughs and the John Burroughs Association publicly recognizes well-written and illustrated natural history publications. Each year the Burroughs medal is awarded to the author of a distinguished book of natural history, with the presentation made during the Association's annual meeting on the first Monday of April.\n\nAn award bearing Burroughs name is available to Boy Scouts who attend Seven Ranges Scout Reservation in Kensington, Ohio. The requirements to achieve this award require ample knowledge in the field of plants, rocks and minerals, astronomy, and animals. The award has three levels bronze, gold, and silver being the highest each level respectively requires more knowledge in the given fields.\n\n\"The Kingdom of heaven is not a place, but a state of mind.\"\n\n\"Leap, and the net will appear.\"\n\n\"A man can get discouraged many times, but he is not a failure until he begins to blame somebody else and stops trying.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55617327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55617327", "title": "Karuma–Kawanda High Voltage Power Line", "text": "Karuma–Kawanda High Voltage Power Line\n\nThe Karuma–Kawanda High Voltage Power Line is a high voltage electricity power line, under construction, connecting the high voltage substation at Karuma Hydroelectric Power Station, in the Western Region of Uganda, to another high voltage substation at Kawanda, in the Central Region of Uganda.\n\nThe 400 kilo Volt power line starts at the 400kV substation a Karuma Hydroelectric Power Station, Kiryandongo District, in Uganda's Western Region, approximately , by road, north of Kampala, the capital and largest city in the country. The power line travels in a general south-easterly direction to end at another 440kV substation owned by Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL), located at Kawanda, in Wakiso District, a total distance of about .\n\nThe power line is being developed in tandem with the 600 MW Karuma Hydroelectric Power Station, whose output is expected to be consumed locally and the balance sold regionally, with Burundi, Rwanda and DR Congo as potential customers. This power line is planned to evacuate the power from Karuma to Kawanda, where it can be distributed to the regional customers.\n\nTwo other high voltage power lines are under construction to evacuate power from Karuma: (a) The , 400kV Karuma–Olwiyo High Voltage Power Line, connects Karuma Power Station to a substation in Olwiyo, Nwoya District, for onward transmission to Gulu and Arua. and (b) The 132 kV Karuma–Lira High Voltage Power Line, which connects Karuma to Lira. \n\nSinohydro Corporation Limited, the main contractor for the construction of Karuma Power Station is the contractor on this project. The supervising engineering company is \"Intec Gopa International Energy Consultants\". The budgeted cost of construction, including the cost of the other two energy evacuation lines from Karuma is approximately US$290 million.\nFunding was obtained from the Exim Bank of China. Construction began in 2015, with commercial commissioning expected in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13611129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13611129", "title": "L'Oceanogràfic", "text": "L'Oceanogràfic\n\nL'Oceanogràfic (; , \"The Oceanographic\") is an oceanarium situated in the east of the city of Valencia, Spain, where different marine habitats are represented. It was designed by the architect Félix Candela and the structural engineers Alberto Domingo and Carlos Lázaro. It is integrated inside the cultural complex known as the Ciutat de les Arts i de les Ciències (City of Arts and Sciences). It was opened on 14 February 2003.\n\nThe Oceanographic is the largest complex of its type in Europe , with a surface of and a water capacity of . This includes a dolphinarium and a ocean tank with sharks, rays and other fish. There are 45,000 animals of 500 different species including fish, mammals, birds, reptiles and invertebrates — amongst these are sharks, penguins, dolphins, sea lions, walruses, beluga whales, and more — all inhabiting nine underwater towers. Each tower is structured in two levels and represent the major ecosystems of the planet.\n\nThe park is divided into ten areas. The marine areas reflect the Mediterranean habitats, the polar oceans — the Arctic, the islands, the tropical seas, the temperate seas and the Red Sea. The park also includes a dolphinarium, an auditorium with a Red Sea aquarium, an area of mangrove swamps and marshland, and a garden with more than 80 different species of plant.\n\nThe sea water is pumped from the beach of \"La Malva-Rosa\" having passed all of the necessary requirements for quality.\n\nThe architecture of the complex is a work of the architect Félix Candela and the engineers Alberto Domingo and Carlos Lázaro, who made the structural design of the concrete coverings of the buildings.\n\nL'Oceanogràfic can be reached via Metro, disembark at Alameda Station or through bus number 15 and 95.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38604697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38604697", "title": "List of Doctor Who universe creatures and aliens (H–P)", "text": "List of Doctor Who universe creatures and aliens (H–P)\n\nThis is a list of fictional creatures and aliens from the universe of the long-running BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", including \"Torchwood\", \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\", \"K-9\" and \"K-9 and Company\". It covers alien races and other fictional creatures, but not specific characters. Individual characters are listed in separate articles.\n\nNote that some information on the page is taken from spin-off media.\n\nHaemovores appeared in the Seventh Doctor story \"The Curse of Fenric\" (1989) by Ian Briggs. Vampiric creatures that fed on blood, they were the end result of human evolution in a possible far future, caused by millennia of pollution. As part of his final game against the Doctor, the entity known as Fenric transported the most powerful Haemovore, called the \"Ancient One\", through time to Viking Age Northumbria. There it waited, trapped beneath the North Sea for centuries, occasionally drawing victims into the water and transforming them into Haemovores.\n\nSoon after the transformation, victims appeared much as they did in life, except for elongated fingernails and a corpse-like pallor. Later they became deformed blue-grey humanoids covered in octopus-like suckers. The Ancient One was the least human in appearance; in its own time, it was the last living thing on Earth.\n\nDuring World War II, Fenric released the Ancient One. Fenric's plan was that the Ancient One was to release the toxin which would pollute the world and thus create its own future.\n\nThe Haemovores had the ability to hypnotically paralyse their victims so they could feed and drain them of blood. Not all of their victims were turned into Haemovores, although the selection process was never explained. The Haemovores were impervious to most forms of attack, surviving being shot at close range by a submachine gun at one point. They could be destroyed in the traditional vampire-killing fashion of driving a stake through their chests. They could also be repelled by their victim's faith, which formed a psychic barrier, like the Doctor's faith in his companions, Ace's faith in the Doctor, Captain Sorin's faith in the Communist Revolution, and even the Reverend Wainwright's failing faith in God; this repelling force can be called into will, the Doctor merely called the names of past companions as a medium.\n\nUltimately, the Seventh Doctor convinced the Ancient One to turn against Fenric, and it released the toxin within a sealed chamber, destroying itself and Fenric's host. Whether this means that the future the Ancient One came from was averted is not clear, although the Doctor seemed to think so.\n\nFenric and his Haemovores return in the 2012 Big Finish Productions audio story, \"Gods and Monsters\".\n\nThe Hath are aliens that appear as tall, roughly humanoid creatures with fish-like heads, who can breathe in air via the employment of apparatus fitted to their faces that incorporates a canister of green liquid. They are intelligent, emotional creatures – one formed a friendship with Martha Jones, and saved her life at the cost of its own. They seem sentient and while they do not speak a language intelligible to humans, the two races planned to colonize the planet Messaline together. However, they later turned on each other – before their eventual reconciliation, thanks to the Doctor's intervention.\n\nThe \"Monster Files\" feature states that the Hath joined and assisted early human space colonisation.\n\nThe Hath returned for an appearance in the second part of \"The End of Time\" (2010), where they are seen in an alien bar, and they are seen briefly in \"The Eleventh Hour\" (2011) in a clip illustrating the Doctor's role as protector of the Earth, suggesting that they have visited the planet at some point prior to 2010. They also appeared in an alien bar for the first episode of season 9.\n\nThe Headless Monks are a religious order that can be converted from any humanoid species by the removal of the head. They wear hooded cloaks, giving the impression that they still have a head, however under the hood, the skin is tied into a tight knot where the head has been removed. Despite their name, most people are unaware of this literal description being true, because except under very special circumstances, one incurs a death penalty if they ever remove the hood of a monk. The monks have no detectable life signs, and are endowed with the ability to throw lightning from their hands. They were first mentioned in \"The Time of Angels\" (2010), but did not appear until \"A Good Man Goes To War\" (2011).\n\nA Hoix features in the \"Torchwood\" episode \"Exit Wounds\" (2008); the first time its name has been mentioned on screen, having previously been seen in the \"Doctor Who\" episode \"Love & Monsters\" two years before. Owen distracts it by feeding it cigarettes stating that it \"lives to eat\". They are not quite intelligent, being easily tricked by Owen into being vulnerable for a knock-out blow to the head; it has been seen animalisticly chasing Rose and the Tenth Doctor in its first appearance. One appeared as a member of the Alliance to seal the Eleventh Doctor in the Pandorica in \"The Pandorica Opens\" (2010). A Hoix was also mentioned in the novel \"The Twilight Streets\".\n\nThe Judoon are galactic alien police resembling rhinoceroses that work for the Shadow Proclamation. They appeared in the series 3 \"Sarah Jane Adventures\" story, \"Prisoner of the Judoon\", in pursuit of a Veil life form known as Androvax that escaped from a crashed Judoon prison transport. They have relatively low intelligence levels but possess sophisticated technology such as H2O Scoops that are capable of lifting large buildings and Thermal Guns that are able to disintegrate targets.\n\nThe Judoon first appeared as a major alien in the \"Doctor Who\" episode \"Smith and Jones\" as well as the episodes \"The Pandorica Opens\".\n\nA species of humanoids from the planet Skaro who evolved into the fearsome and warlike Daleks.\n\nKinda (pronounced \"Kin-duh\") are a species of human-like people. At first glance, one would assume they are similar to the caveman age humans. However, their necklaces seem similar to a double helix, implying they are smarter than they appear. They have legends of the Mara, and are warned not to dream alone to keep it away. The men of the Kinda are not allowed to speak, but if one does, a phophecy says all Kinda will. They have women similar to shamans, they speak almost fluently; when the elder dies, her spirit and knowledge enter her apprentice. A child in the Kinda tribe could have up to seven fathers, though this hasn't been elaborated on; although it could be one biological father and six stepfathers.\n\n The Kraals reappear in a Big Finish story called 'The Oseidon Adventure', which was released in June 2012 as part of the Fourth Doctor Adventures.\n\nThe Krafayis appear in the episode \"Vincent and the Doctor\" (2010).\n\nKrargs appear in the unfinished serial \"Shada\" and consequently in its later Big Finish/BBCi remake. They are artificial crystalline organisms with rudimentary mobility and understanding of simple commands, created and controlled by the main antagonist, Skagra, to aid in his plan to forcefully merge all of the minds in the Universe into a single omnipotent entity.\n\nThe Krynoids appeared in the Fourth Doctor story \"The Seeds of Doom\" by Robert Banks Stewart. They are a highly dangerous, sentient form of plant life which are renowned amongst galactic botanists. They spread via seed pods which travel in pairs and are violently hurled through space by frequent volcanic eruptions on their unnamed home planet. The pods when opened are attracted to flesh and are able to infect and mingle their DNA with that of the host, taking over their body and slowly transforming them into a Krynoid. The species can also exert a form of telepathic control over other plant life in the surrounding area, making it suddenly dangerous and deadly to animal-kind. In the later stages of development the Krynoid can also control the vocal cords of its victims and can make itself telepathically sympathetic to humans. Fully grown Krynoids are many meters high and can then release hordes of seed pairs for further colonisation.\n\nTwo pods arrived on Earth at the South Pole during the prehistoric Pleistocene era and remained dormant in Antarctica until discovered at the end of the twentieth century. One of them hatched after being exposed to ultra-violet light, and took control of a nearby human scientist. The Fourth Doctor intervened in the nick of time and ensured the Krynoid was destroyed by a bomb, but the second pod was stolen and taken to the home of millionaire botanist Harrison Chase in England. Chase ensured the germination of the second pod, which overtook his scientific adviser Arnold Keeler, and transformed its subject over time into a virtually full-sized Krynoid. Unable to destroy the creature by other means, and with the danger of a seed release imminent from the massive plant, the Doctor orchestrated an RAF bombing raid to destroy the creature before it could germinate.\n\nThe Krynoid are also featured in the Eighth Doctor audio story for Big Finish entitled \"Hothouse\", where an environmentalist group uses samples from the original Krynoid to try and create hybrids that can be controlled by the human host and thus control Earth's fauna to cope with the environmental damage, only for their efforts to merely create a rapidly-growing Krynoid before the Doctor sets it on fire. Also featured in BBV audios \"The Root of All Evil\", and \"The Green Man\".\n\nA Krynoid appears as one of the villains in the Eleventh Doctor short story collection \"Tales of Trenzalore\", as one of the creatures attacking Trenzalore during the Doctor's defence of the planet (\"The Time of the Doctor\", 2013), the Doctor defeating the Krynoid by blasting it with rapidly-freezing water from a specially modified hose and then shattering it with the reverberations of the town bell.\n\nThe Macra first appear in the 1967 Second Doctor story \"The Macra Terror\" by Ian Stuart Black. They are an intelligent, giant crab-like species from an unnamed planet colonised by humanity in the future. The Macra invade the control centre of the colony and seize the levers of power without the colonists – including their Pilot – knowing what had happened. Thereafter the Macra only appear at night, when the humans are in their quarters, observing a curfew. They have strong hypnotic powers which alter human perception. They also have the ability to ensure messages are vocalised through electronic apparatus such as television or sensor speakers. Both these tools are used to keep the human colonists under control, believing they are blissfully happy. This provides a cover for the Macra to use the colonists as miners in a vast gas mine. The gas is deadly to the miners but vital to the Macra, enabling them to move more quickly and rejuvenating their abilities. The Second Doctor effects a revolution on the Macra planet and helps engineer an explosion in the control centre, destroying the Macra in charge.\n\nThe Macra are also featured in the 2007 episode \"Gridlock\", becoming the first one-off opponent of the Doctor in the classic series to appear in the revived series so far, with the Zygons reappearing in the Eleventh Doctor story, \"The Day of the Doctor\" (2013). In the episode, some Macra are found to be alive below New New York, a city of New Earth. They live in the thick fog of exhaust gases on the main motorway under the city, tracking the flying cars by their lights and snatching at them when they get too close. The Doctor says that the species is billions of years old and once developed a small empire as \"the scourge of this galaxy\", but the Macra beneath New New York must have devolved into nothing more than beasts.\n\nIn the Doctor Who universe, the planet Mars is home to two known forms of sentient life: the Ice Warriors, a race of reptilian humanoids, and the Flood, a sentient, water-borne virus encountered by the first human base on Mars in the episode \"The Waters of Mars\" (2009). The Tenth Doctor was accidentally identified as a Martian by Donna Noble during their meeting with the Empress of the Racnoss.\n\nLarge, spherical robots created by humans to prepare the planet Mechanus for colonisation. They kept stranded astronaut Steven Taylor prisoner as he did not have their control codes. Daleks, pursuing the TARDIS crew, engaged the Mechonoids in battle. Which side was victorious is not shown. Spelt 'Mechanoid' in various subsequent comic strip appearances.\n\nThe Menoptra (spelled Menoptera in the novelisation of the serial) appeared in the First Doctor story \"The Web Planet\", by Bill Strutton (1965). They are an intelligent, bipedal insectoid species from the planet Vortis. In appearance, they resemble a cross between giant butterflies and bees, with each Menoptra possessing four large wings. They have yellow and black stripes around their bodies and appear to be around six feet tall, but do not seem to have typical insect body parts (such as mandibles or an abdomen).\n\nPeaceful and kindly by nature, the Menoptra move in a unique, stylised way and their vocal inflections are stilted. They were very welcoming of the First Doctor, Ian, Barbara, and Vicki; but showed an animosity towards their fellow insectoids, the Zarbi, as well as an abhorrence for the Animus, a hostile alien intelligence that had taken over the originally passive Zarbi and almost all of Vortis. Once it was clear that the Doctor was willing to help them defeat the Animus, they were only too glad to assist in any way they could.\n\nMenoptra born without wings are considered second-class citizens.\n\nA Menoptra and a Zarbi were shown on cover of the first edition of \"Doctor Who Annual\" in September 1965 along with two other \"Doctor Who\" alien races, a Voord and a Sensorite.\n\nThe Monks are an alien race of shapeshifting humanoids that can choose their appearance at will; on Earth, they chose to resemble human corpses. The Monks study other planets through virtual simulations and take over by having someone in power consent to their rule out of love.\n\nIn \"Extremis\" (2017), the simulated version of the Twelfth Doctor eventually realized the truth and emailed a recording of the Monks' simulation to the real Twelfth Doctor through his sonic sunglasses, warning him of the coming invasion.\n\nIn \"The Pyramid at the End of the World\" (2017), the Monks showed the assembled world leaders a future where the Earth would be destroyed in one year by bacteria and offered to protect them as their rulers. The Doctor planned to stop the bacteria by blowing up the laboratory where it was found, but realized he could not escape the explosion due to his blindness. Unwilling to let her friend die, Bill Potts consented to the Monks' rule in return for the Doctor's eyesight, allowing him to escape.\n\nIn \"The Lie of the Land\" (2017), the Monks ruled over Earth for six months and kept the humans control by broadcasting a revised version of the planet's history that included the Monks from the beginning. Bill, the lynchpin through whom the fake history was broadcast, broke her psychic link with the Monks by broadcasting pure memories of her mother, causing the Monks to lose control over humanity and ultimately retreat from Earth.\n\nThe Movellans, who made their first appearance in the Fourth Doctor serial \"Destiny of the Daleks\" (1979), are an android species originating from outside the galaxy. They were adversaries of the Daleks.\n\nMovellans outwardly resemble physically attractive humans of various ethnicities and both genders. All Movellan androids wear white, form-fitting uniforms and have silver hair braided in a dreadlock style. They are stronger and have more physical endurance than human beings. A major weakness of the Movellan design is an external power pack which each android carries on its belt. This can be removed with comparative ease, causing the android to completely shut down. Once removed the power pack circuitry can be reprogrammed so that the android will obey the orders of another being.\n\nThe Movellans are mentioned again in \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" (1984), where a virus of their invention was central to that story's plot. They also appear in \"The Pilot\" (2017), where they are seen fighting the Daleks.\n\nThe Nestenes are a race of amorphous aliens who can control all forms of plastic, creating Autons. Since the Last Great Time War destroyed their food supply planets, the Nestenes have been seeking replacements.\n\nMinotaur-like beings that go to other planets, posing as gods. However, they are nothing more than a parasitic race that bleed planets dry before moving on to new ones in a repeating cycle. They are cousins to the Minotaur species the Doctor encountered in \"The God Complex\". While one posed as a god, it acquired sacrifices to be used as batteries for powering their teleporter. However, the Doctor's arrival prevented more than two extra Nimons from arriving; the rest tried a last-resort plan by blowing up their now resource-deprived planet, killing them all.\n\nOgrons are mercenaries employed by various parties to \"do their dirty work\" throughout the universe. They strongly resemble Orcs or Uruk-hai from The Lord of the Rings, being large humanoids with thick gray skin, protruding brow ridges, and thick, tangled hair. They primarily employ stun weapons, and have been employed by both the Daleks and the Master on at least one occasion. They first appeared in the Third Doctor serial \"Day of the Daleks\" (1972).\n\nThe Optera appeared in the First Doctor story \"The Web Planet\" (1965) by Bill Strutton. These caterpillar-like creatures were once Menoptra, but they elected to instead burrow under the ground and abandon the world of light and flight above. It is implied that they may have been driven there by the malevolent Animus.\n\nThey have larger eyes than their Menoptra brethren, and have no wings. However, they have numerous arms and appear to \"hop\" in a stylised way. They speak with inflection different from that of their bee-like cousins, but their speech is a strange dialect of the language of the \"upper world\" and words and phrases they have coined for themselves.\n\nAt the story's end, the Animus is defeated and the Optera are persuaded to return to the surface, where they look forward to their children learning the joys of flight; implying that once back on the surface the Optera will redevelop wings.\n\nPelodonians appear humanoid, but are still in age of a lack of advanced technology; at least when the Third Doctor visits the first time, when Pelodon is being considered admittance into a galactic alliance. In the Doctor's first adventure, Pelodon was ruled by a half human king named after the planet; his second trip saw him meeting King Pelodon's daughter, a 1/4 human queen.\n\nBased on the mythical piper in the fairytale, the Pied Piper was an energy entity from the Jeggorabax Cluster, home to beings that feed on emotions. The species' spacecraft resembled meteorites; one such ship crash landed on Earth in the Weserbergland Mountains, Lower Saxony in 1283. Feeding off the emotion of fear, it assumed the human disguise of The Pied Piper and stole away all the children of the town of Hamelin, creating fear from parents.\n\nThe First Doctor, John and Gillian first meet the Pied Piper in the comic \"Challenge of the Piper\". This is also the first story to ever feature the Pied Piper in \"Doctor Who\".\nOver the centuries, the creature continued to abduct children and terrify their parents, using many guises including Odd Bob the Clown, who kidnapped children in wartime New York. In the 2009 story \"The Day of the Clown\", posing as both the ringmaster Elijah Spellman and as Odd Bob, the entity established a museum in Ealing named Spellman's Magical Museum of the Circus, made possible by the presence of the Weserbergland Meteorite at the Pharos Institute. Because of Sarah Jane's affiliation with Pharos, she broke some of the meteorite and used it to trap the alien in it, after having weakened it by laughing at its clown form instead of fearing it. The meteorite was then sealed in a special emotion-proof container made out of Halconite steel in Sarah Jane's attic.\n\nPlasmavores are shape-changing aliens that live on haemoglobin. They absorb blood from their victims, which in turn changes their own blood chemistry to that of the victim, allowing them to mimic other species when medically scanned. A Plasmavore was hiding from the Judoon in the Royal Hope Hospital on Earth, disguised as Florence Finnegan.\n\nThe P'ting have toxic skin, and will eat anything that is not organic and energy like it ate the Doctor's energy from her sonic screwdriver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "808626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808626", "title": "List of NGC objects", "text": "List of NGC objects\n\nThe following is a list of NGC objects, that is objects listed in the New General Catalogue (NGC). It is one of the largest comprehensive astronomical catalogues for deep space objects such as star clusters, nebulae, and galaxies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19974327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19974327", "title": "List of Ultras of Canada", "text": "List of Ultras of Canada\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 143 ultra-prominent summits of Canada. Each of these peaks has at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nMount Logan exceeds of topographic prominence. Five peaks of Canada exceed , 11 exceed , 41 exceed , and the following 143 ultra-prominent summits exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf these 143 ultra-prominent summits of Canada, 103 are located in British Columbia, 17 in Yukon, 16 in Nunavut, nine in Alberta, and one in the Northwest Territories. Three of these peaks lie on the British Columbia-Alberta border. Four of these summits lie on the international Yukon-Alaska border and two lie on the international British Columbia-Alaska border.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12654999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12654999", "title": "List of WWF ecoregions in Canada", "text": "List of WWF ecoregions in Canada\n\nList of WWF ecoregions in Canada.\n\nA listing of Canadian ecoregions developed by WWF-Canada and the international World Wide Fund for Nature (formerly World Wildlife Fund). \n\nThe ecoregions are within the Nearctic ecozone of the New World, which is part of the Holarctic ecozone of the Northern Hemisphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40679566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40679566", "title": "List of earthquakes in Bulgaria", "text": "List of earthquakes in Bulgaria\n\nThis list of earthquakes in Bulgaria is organized by date and includes events that caused injuries/fatalities, historic quakes, as well events that are notable for other reasons.\n"}
{"id": "49204743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49204743", "title": "List of earthquakes in Fiji", "text": "List of earthquakes in Fiji\n\nEarthquakes in Fiji are infrequent and are sometimes accompanied by tsunami. The group of islands are positioned at the Australian–Pacific plate margin.\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "19518959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19518959", "title": "List of mountains in Liechtenstein", "text": "List of mountains in Liechtenstein\n\nThis is a list of mountains of Liechtenstein, they are all within the Rätikon range of the Eastern Alps.\n"}
{"id": "9012616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9012616", "title": "List of pea diseases", "text": "List of pea diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of peas (\"Pisum sativum\").\n"}
{"id": "1885139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885139", "title": "List of species described by the Lewis and Clark Expedition", "text": "List of species described by the Lewis and Clark Expedition\n\nLewis and Clark expedition encountered 174 plants and 134 species and subspecies of animals new to science. Lewis lost the notes about the specimens but analyses and detailed scientific descriptions of the specimens were performed by others. Lewis hired Frederick Pursh in Rhode Island to review the plant collection and describe and publish the results, which Pursh did in 1828. Lewis described and published none of the plants he collected in the Western America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49991278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49991278", "title": "List of the major 5000-meter summits of North America", "text": "List of the major 5000-meter summits of North America\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 11 mountain peaks of greater North America with at least of elevation and at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nIn greater North America, only Denali exceeds elevation. Three major summits exceed , the following 11 major summits exceed , 21 exceed , 124 exceed, 277 exceed , and 401 exceed elevation.\n\nOf the 11 major 5000-meter summits of North America, five are located in the United States, four in Canada, and three in México. Mount Saint Elias lies on the Canada-United States border and is the second highest major summit of both countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5974618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5974618", "title": "Lists of exoplanets", "text": "Lists of exoplanets\n\nThis is a list of exoplanets. there are 3,848 confirmed exoplanets. The majority of these planets were discovered by the \"Kepler\" spacecraft. In addition to the confirmed exoplanets, there are 2,426 potential exoplanets from its first mission that are yet to be confirmed, and 473 from its \"Second Light\" mission.\n\nFor yearly lists on physical, orbital and other properties, as well as on discovery circumstances and other aspects, \"see \"\n\n \n\n<section begin=fullList />\n<section end=fullList />\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40276418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40276418", "title": "LitSat-1", "text": "LitSat-1\n\nLitSat-1 is one of the two first Lithuanian satellites. It was launched aboard the second Cygnus spacecraft along with 28 Flock-1 CubeSats aboard an Antares 120 carrier rocket flying from Pad 0B at the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport on Wallops Island. The launch was scheduled to occur in December 2013, but later was rescheduled to 9 January 2014. The satellite was deployed from the International Space Station via the NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer on February 28, 2014. Three Lithuanian words will be broadcast from space \"Lietuva myli laisvę\" (Lithuania loves freedom). Launch of satellites Lituanica SAT-1 and LitSat-1 was broadcast live in Lithuania.\n\nOn 6 March 2014 the satellite radio station of Kaunas University of Technology (KTU) established a two-way connection with LitSat-1 for the first time.\n\n"}
{"id": "54498962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54498962", "title": "Mazaalai (satellite)", "text": "Mazaalai (satellite)\n\nMazaalai (; ), is a CubeSat that was launched into space on 3 June 2017 as part of the SpaceX CRS-11 mission.\n\nReleased into space from the NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer on the Kibō module of the International Space Station on 7 July 2017, \"Mazaalai\" is the first Mongolian satellite in space. It has imaging capabilities and can transmit songs back to Earth, but its primary mission will involve performing experiments including GPS location, air density measurement, and investigation of cosmic radiation.\n\n\"Mazaalai\" is part of the Birds-1 constellation of satellites, built through the Joint Global Multi-Nation Birds Satellite at Japan's Kyushu Institute of Technology, a program intended to help universities in non-spacefaring countries get satellites into space. The Birds-1 constellation also included satellites from Japan, Ghana, Nigeria, and Bangladesh. Over a two-year period, three university students from each of the five participating countries learned skills to build, develop, launch and operate the satellites. All five satellites were identical to each other. The satellites from Ghana (\"GhanaSat-1\") and Bangladesh (\"BRAC Onnesha\") were the first satellites in space for those countries.\n\n\"MongolSat-1\", which was launched in early 2017, is sometimes reported as Mongolia's first satellite, but that satellite was in fact launched by a Bermuda-based company, ABS. It was manufactured by U.S. company Boeing and was co-branded as \"MongolSat-1\" after launch.\n\n\"Mazaalai\" is named after the endangered Gobi bear, native to Mongolia. It was designed and built by three young researchers of the National University of Mongolia, in collaboration with students from Ghana, Japan, Bangladesh, and Nigeria.\n\nThe spacecraft is a 1U CubeSat with a mass of approximately . It is equipped with 0.3 megapixel and 5 megapixel cameras, capable of taking images with resolution, and has sensors capable of measuring air density and space radiation. The satellite can also transmit songs and data at 437 MHz to Earth that have been uploaded to the satellite.\n\n\"Mazaalai\" was sent to the International Space Station on 3 June 2017 as part of the SpaceX CRS-11 mission. The satellite was carried in a Dragon spacecraft on a Falcon 9 rocket, launched from NASA's Kennedy Space Center Pad 39A. This was the 100th launch from Pad 39A and the first time SpaceX reused one of its Dragon capsules. The satellite was released into orbit from the Japanese Kibō module of the ISS on 7 July 2017. The satellite orbits the Earth at an altitude of approximately and at an inclination of 51.6 degrees. The satellite travels around the Earth every 92 minutes at a velocity of \n\nThe satellite performs experiments including GPS location, air density measurements, and investigating cosmic radiation. The satellite transmits the national anthem of Mongolia to Earth. The main purpose of the project for Mongolia was to develop more accurate maps, help mitigate natural disasters, and conduct independent space studies. The project was supported by Mongolian Emergency Organization of Government and National University of Mongolia as part of the Joint Global Multi-Nation BIRDS Satellite project of Kyushu Institute of Technology, an international interdisciplinary project for non-space faring countries supported by Japan. The satellite communicates with seven ground stations: one in each of the countries participating in the Birds-1 program, and one each in Thailand and Taiwan.\n\nA second satellite launch in 2019 is being planned by the \"Mazaalai\" team members. Japan's work with non-spacefaring countries will continue with Birds-2 in 2018 with the Philippines, Bhutan, and Malaysia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1917544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917544", "title": "National Marine Aquarium, Plymouth", "text": "National Marine Aquarium, Plymouth\n\nThe National Marine Aquarium is a marine aquarium built on reclaimed land in the city of Plymouth, England, in Sutton Harbour, next to the Barbican and fishmarket. It was opened in May 1998, with charitable aims of research, education and conservation. It is the largest aquarium in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt is a member of the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA).\n\n\"The Aquarium is divided into four main zones: Plymouth Sound, British Coasts, Atlantic Ocean and Blue Planet. A visit to the aquarium goes from the local waters of Plymouth to the Great Barrier Reef of Australia.\"\n\nThis zone displays marine life found around Plymouth. It concentrates on the surprising range of habitats found around the City. There are 17 tanks (which include a rock pool and a wave tank) are home to approximately 80 species of fish and invertebrates; including local sharks and rays.\n\nThe second exhibit is the largest native offering in Britain. As visitors move on to the coasts of Britain, they can discover the potential of renewable energy from our Oceans. This zone houses life-size models of whales and dolphins located around Britain. The large Eddystone tank displays an array of creatures found on the Eddystone reef, 19 km south of Plymouth. Through a huge window, visitors can see conger eels, mullet, pollack, bream, and smooth hound sharks swimming in the open water, flatfish and rays hiding on the seabed, and lobsters and crabs hiding in the rocks.\n\nThis zone contains various areas within, including 'Ocean Drifters', 'Ocean Lab', 'Observation Deck', 'Lost At Sea' and 'Ocean Predators' The 'Ocean Drifters' jelly exhibit was opened in 2009, and includes moon jellies, Japanese sea nettles, and Upside-down jellyfish, housed in round tanks to prevent damage to their delicate bodies. The other areas take you around the largest tank of the aquarium housing 1,000 Caribbean fish including nurse shark, lemon shark, sand tiger shark, barracuda, southern stingray and tarpon. The tank volume is 2.5 million litres. This exhibit was updated at the end of 2009, with the largest ever shipment of live fish into the UK, from Barbados, West Indies. It was updated again in 2015/16 with the addition of Lemon and sand-tiger sharks.\n\nThe Laboratory allows you to see what life is like working behind the scenes at the aquarium. Biologists can be seen taking care of the younger generation of species being bred and cared for before entering the main exhibits. This process is the most important moment for the species, as they grow and are placed into an ecosystems suited to their natural lifestyle\nThis zone includes 'Biozone' and the 'Great Barrier Reef'. Biozone showcases the amazing biodiversity found in the world's oceans and displays longhorn cowfish, lionfish, Giant Pacific Octopus Enteroctopus dofleini and seahorses. The Great Barrier Reef exhibit is the grand finale of the visit. The second largest tank at 700,000 litres, and by far the most colourful, the reef is home to over 70 species of fish. It also was the home of the loggerhead turtle, Snorkel, who was with the aquarium from 1990 to 2016.\n\nThe National Marine Aquarium is a dedicated charity that drives marine conservation through engagement. They led a project to sink frigate HMS Scylla in 2004 to create an artificial reef in Whitsand Bay, Cornwall. It is the lead partner in Just Add HO, a schools learning centre. Which also offers outreach programs based around the National Curriculum teaching 30,000 school children each year. Through National Marine Aquarium grants smaller charities can further help with driving marine conservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "28169529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28169529", "title": "Natural Sciences Museum of Albania", "text": "Natural Sciences Museum of Albania\n\nNatural Sciences Museum of Albania is a natural science museum in Tirana, Albania and was established in 1948. The museum is affiliated with the University of Tirana and has branches in zoology, botany and geology.\n\n"}
{"id": "30449643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30449643", "title": "Ocean colonization", "text": "Ocean colonization\n\nOcean colonization or ocean colonisation is the theory and practice of permanent human settlement of oceans. Such settlements may be seasteads floating on the surface of the water, or exist as underwater habitats secured to the ocean floor, or in an intermediate position.\n\nOne primary purpose of ocean colonization is the expansion of livable area. Other possible benefits include expanded access to undersea resources, novel forms of governance (for instance micronations), and new recreational activities.\n\nLessons learned from ocean colonization may prove applicable to space colonization. The ocean may prove simpler to colonize than space and thus occur first, providing a proving ground for the latter. In particular, the issue of sovereignty may bear many similarities between ocean and space colonization; adjustments to social life under harsher circumstances would apply similarly to the ocean and to space; and many technologies may have uses in both environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "9026630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9026630", "title": "Pernambuco coastal forests", "text": "Pernambuco coastal forests\n\nThe Pernambuco coastal forests is an ecoregion of the Tropical moist broadleaf forests Biome, and the South American Atlantic Forest biome. It is located in northeastern Brazil.\n\nThe Pernambuco coastal forests occupy an 80 km-wide strip along the Atlantic coast of northeastern Brazil in the states of Pernambuco and Alagoas. The forests extend from near sea level to in elevation, on the windward slopes of the Borborema Plateau.\n\nThe Goiana River of Pernambuco marks the forests' northern extent, and the Mundaú River of Alagoas the southern extent.\n\nThe ecoregion is bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean and the coastal Atlantic Coast restingas forests and Rio Piranhas mangroves. To the east, the forests transition to the drier Pernambuco interior forests and Caatinga.\n\nThe ecoregion has a tropical climate with annual rainfall ranging from 1,750 to 2,000 mm. There is a dry period from October through January.\n\nThe four-tiered evergreen Atlantic moist forests are the predominant vegetation type.\n\nThe ecoregion is an endemic bird area that harbors 13 threatened species of birds. It also harbors the last populations of the red-handed howler monkey \"(Alouatta belzebul)\" and blond capuchin \"(Sapajus flavius)\" in the Atlantic Forests.\n\nCoastal forests in Pernambuco have a long history of deforestation. The first cycle of destruction was due to \"Pau-brasil\" \"(Caesalpinia echinata)\" extraction. After the extraction of Pau-brasil, through the mid-20th century, the sugarcane industry was mainly responsible for the forest clearing.\n\nForests remnants are small, most with less 10 km² and surrounded by sugarcane fields. There is only 87 km² of isolated conservation units. It isn't an enough amount to maintain biodiversity and key ecological processes. The largest reserve is Murici Ecological Station (6132 ha).\n\n"}
{"id": "20562886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20562886", "title": "Richard Conniff", "text": "Richard Conniff\n\nRichard Conniff (born March 1, 1951) is an American non-fiction writer, specializing in human and animal behavior.\n\nConniff also writes about wildlife, human cultures and other topics for \"Time\", \"Smithsonian\", \"Atlantic Monthly\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"National Geographic\", \"Audubon Magazine\", \"Yale Environment 360\", and other publications in the United States and abroad. His magazine work in \"Smithsonian\" won the 1997 National Magazine Award, and was included in The Best American Science and Nature Writing in 2000, 2002, and 2006. Conniff is also the winner of the 2001 John Burroughs Award for Outstanding Nature Essay of the Year, a 2007 Guggenheim Fellowship, and a 2009 Loeb Journalism Award.\n\nConniff has been a frequent commentator on NPR and serves as a contributing opinion writer for \"The New York Times\" online. He has written and presented television shows for National Geographic Channel, TBS, Animal Planet, the BBC, and Channel Four in the UK. His television work has been nominated for an Emmy Award for distinguished achievement in writing, and he won the 1998 Wildscreen Prize for Best Natural History Television Script for the BBC show \"Between Pacific Tides\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "448563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448563", "title": "Seer stone (Latter Day Saints)", "text": "Seer stone (Latter Day Saints)\n\nAccording to Latter Day Saint theology, seer stones were believed to have been used by Joseph Smith, as well as ancient prophets, to receive revelations from God. Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believe that Joseph Smith used a seer stone in the Book of Mormon translation effort.\n\nSeer stones are mentioned in the Book of Mormon in the Book of Mosiah, where they are also called \"interpreters\" and described as being used by seers to translate and receive revelations. The term \"Urim and Thummim\" is usually used by Latter Day Saints members to refer to the \"interpreters\" mentioned in the Book of Mormon. Some Latter Day Saints use the term Urim and Thummim and seer stones interchangeably.\n\nSmith owned at least two seer stones, which he had earlier employed for treasure seeking before he founded the church. Other early Mormons, such as Hiram Page, David Whitmer, and Jacob Whitmer, also owned seer stones.\n\nSome early-nineteenth-century Americans used seer stones in attempts to gain revelations from God or to find buried treasure. From about 1819, Smith regularly practiced scrying, a form of divination in which a \"seer\" looked into a seer stone to receive supernatural knowledge. Smith's usual procedure was to place the stone in a white stovepipe hat, put his face over the hat to block the light, and \"see\" the necessary information in the stone's reflections. Smith and his father achieved \"something of a mysterious local reputation in the profession—mysterious because there is no record that they ever found anything despite the readiness of some local residents to pay for their efforts.\"\n\nIn late 1825, Josiah Stowell, a well-to-do farmer from South Bainbridge, Chenango County, New York, was searching for a lost Spanish mine near Harmony Township, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania with another seer. Stowell traveled to Manchester to hire Smith \"on account of having heard that he possessed certain keys, by which he could discern things invisible to the natural eye.\" Smith worked with the Stowell-Hale team for approximately one month, attempting, according to their contract, to locate \"a valuable mine of either Gold or Silver and also...coined money and bars or ingots of Gold or Silver\". According to an uncorroborated account by Hale, Smith attempted to locate the mine by burying his face in a hat containing the seer stone; however, as the treasure hunters got close to their objective, Smith said that an enchantment became so strong that Smith could no longer see it. The failed project disbanded on November 17, 1825; however, Smith continued to work for Stowell on other matters until 1826.\nIn 1826 Smith was arrested and brought to court in Bainbridge, New York, on the complaint of Stowell's nephew who accused Smith of being \"a disorderly person and an imposter.\" Court records show that Smith, identified as \"The Glass Looker,\" stood before the court on March 20, 1826, on a warrant for an unspecified misdemeanor charge, and that the judge issued a \"mittimus\" for Smith to be held, either during or after the proceedings. Although Smith's associate Oliver Cowdery later stated that Smith was \"honorably acquitted,\" the result of the proceeding is unclear, with some claiming he was found guilty, others claiming he was \"condemned\" but \"designedly allowed to escape,\" and yet others (including the trial note taker) claiming he was \"discharged\" for lack of evidence.\n\nMartin Harris said that Smith once found a pin in a pile of shavings with the aid of a stone. Smith had at least two seer stones, including a white stone that he found in about 1819, and a chocolate-colored stone that he found in 1822. His favored stone, chocolate-colored and about the size of an egg, was found in a deep well he helped dig for one of his neighbors. In 1827, Smith said he obtained the \"Urim and Thummim\" which was composed of two white stones, different from the previous two.\n\nIn 1823, Smith said that an angel told him of the existence of golden plates along with \"two stones in silver bows\" fastened to a breastplate that the angel said God had prepared for translating the plates. In dictating the Book of Mormon, Smith said he used these \"interpreters,\" which he later referred to as \"Urim and Thummim.\" Smith's wife, Emma, said that Smith used the Urim and Thummim to translate the lost 116 pages of the manuscript but that Smith translated the published Book of Mormon using the single chocolate-colored stone that he had previously used in treasure-quests.\n\nDavid Whitmer said, regarding Smith's translation of the Book of Mormon:\n\nOther early Mormons, among whom were Jacob and David Whitmer, Philo Dibble, W. W. Phelps, and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, valued seer stones. In 1830, Hiram Page, one of the Eight Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, claimed to have had a series of revelations through a black seer stone. After Smith announced that these revelations were of the devil, Page agreed to discard the stone which, according to a contemporary, was \"Broke to powder and the writings Burnt.\" Apparently, the apostasy of some early Mormon believers can be traced to Smith's move away from the use of seer stones. The Whitmer family, devoted to their importance, \"later said their disenchantment with Mormonism began when Joseph Smith stopped using his seer stone as an instrument of revelation.\" In November 1837, the Kirtland high council disfellowshipped 11-year-old James C. Brewster, his parents, and several associates for claiming that he had \"the gift of seeing and looking through or into a stone.\" Nevertheless, some Mormons continued to believe in the power of seer stones. After Smith's death, Brigham Young endorsed their use. In 1855, he reminisced, \"Joseph said there is a [seer] Stone for every person on Earth.\" At the first general conference after Smith's death, Young declared, \"The president of the priests has a right to the Urim and Thummim, which gives revelation.\" James Strang, who led a small breakaway group after Smiths death, proclaiming himself Smith's successor, claimed he unearthed ancient metal plates, known as the Voree plates, and translated them using a seer stone.\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, prophets such as the Brother of Jared and Mosiah used devices called \"interpreters\" to receive revelation for their people, and the Doctrine and Covenants declares these interpreters to have been Urim and Thummim.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Also known as the Restored Church, or informally as the \"LDS Church\") teaches that the Urim and Thummim of Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon were the functional equivalent of the Urim and Thummim mentioned in the Old Testament. There is no indication whether or not the Old Testament Urim and Thummim were used to translate documents. Some church members believe that there were three different Urim and Thummim: the one of the Old Testament and two mentioned in the Book of Mormon, one used by the Jaredites and the other by King Mosiah. (The Church teaches that the one used by Smith is the one originally possessed by the Jaredites.)\n\nSometime after 1828, Smith and his early contemporaries began to use the terms \"seer stone\" and \"Urim and Thummim\" interchangeably, referring to Smith's brown stone as a \"Urim and Thummim.\" D. Michael Quinn argues Smith eventually began using \"biblical terminology to mainstream an instrument and practice of folk magic... There was no reference to the Urim and Thummim in the headings of the Book of Commandments (1833) or in the headings of the only editions of the Doctrine and Covenants prepared during Smith's life.\" Early Mormons often referred to Smith's seer stone as \"the Urim and Thummim,\" and Quinn refers to the term \"Urim and Thummim\" as a \"euphemism for Joseph Smith's seer stone.\" The LDS Church has suggested that Smith and others \"seem to have understood the term [Urim and Thummim] more as a descriptive category of instruments for obtaining divine revelations and less as the name of a specific instrument\".\n\nAfter finishing the Book of Mormon translation, Smith is said to have given his brown seer stone to Oliver Cowdery, but he occasionally used his white stone to gain revelations, including his translation of what later became known as the Book of Abraham. There is no evidence that Smith used the stone to dictate any of the Doctrine and Covenants revelations after November 1830. During his work on his Bible translation, Smith told Orson Pratt he had stopped using the stone because he had become acquainted with \"the Spirit of Prophecy and Revelation\" and no longer needed it. Nevertheless, in 1855, Brigham Young told the apostles that Smith had had five seer stones, and Young made it clear that Smith \"did not regard his seer stones simply as relics of his youth\" but had found others while church president.\n\nAccording to apostle Joseph Fielding Smith, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints owns one of Smith's seer stones. Nevertheless, since the nineteenth century, no president of the church has openly used such a stone in his role as \"prophet, seer, and revelator\".\n\nIn August 2015, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints released images of one of Smith's seer stones—a rounded, smoothed, brown and black stone—in a volume of the Joseph Smith Papers Project containing the printer's manuscript of the Book of Mormon.\n\n"}
{"id": "33078335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33078335", "title": "Senate Oceans Caucus", "text": "Senate Oceans Caucus\n\nThe Senate Oceans Caucus is a bipartisan caucus working to increase awareness and find common ground in responding to issues facing the oceans and coasts. The caucus was originally co-chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska; \nThe founding members of the Caucus were:\n\nThe Caucus was founded September 17, 2011 by 18 Senators of both parties. Founding members include Daniel Akaka (D-HI), Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard Chair, Mark Begich (D-AK), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Committee on Environment and Public Works Chair, Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Scott Brown (R-MA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Water and Wildlife Chair, Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chris Coons (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), John Kerry (D-MA), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Ranking Minority Member, Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Patty Murray (D-WA), Commerce Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard Ranking Minority Member, Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Oversight Chair, Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).\n\nThe founding Senators of the caucus stressed the importance of the ocean and the crucial role it plays on all aspects of life: an importance that extends not only past state, but also political party, lines.\n\nSenator Snowe of Maine explained that \"The Senate Oceans Caucus is a major step forward in our recognition of the significant environmental and economic roles played by our oceans, and through this coordinated bipartisan effort that centralizes key priorities from all of our stakeholders and industries, our caucus has the potential to speak in a loud and unified voice on behalf of our coastal resources, yielding significant economic and environmental benefits for us all.\"\n\nThe Caucus established a 4-part Charter.\n\n\"This newly founded Senate Oceans Caucus is an important, bi-partisan group that will increase awareness and find common ground in responding to issues facing the oceans. The Caucus membership will work to ensure a sustainable, science-based, and efficient approach to the utilization of our ocean resources.\" -Consortium for Ocean Leadership\n\nThe Press Conference following the inaugural meeting of the caucus included representatives from ocean and coastal organizations supporting their efforts, including the Consortium for Ocean Leadership, the National Marine Manufacturers Association (NMMA), the National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA), the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA), the National Federation of Regional Associations for Coastal and Ocean Observing (NFRA), and Ocean Champions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1102000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102000", "title": "Shen Kuo", "text": "Shen Kuo\n\nShen Kuo (; 1031–1095) or Shen Gua, courtesy name Cunzhong (存中) and pseudonym Mengqi (now usually given as Mengxi) Weng (夢溪翁), was a Han Chinese polymathic scientist and statesman of the Song dynasty (960–1279). Excelling in many fields of study and statecraft, he was a mathematician, astronomer, meteorologist, geologist, zoologist, botanist, pharmacologist, agronomist, archaeologist, ethnographer, cartographer, encyclopedist, general, diplomat, hydraulic engineer, inventor, academy chancellor, finance minister, governmental state inspector, poet, and musician. He was the head official for the Bureau of Astronomy in the Song court, as well as an Assistant Minister of Imperial Hospitality. At court his political allegiance was to the Reformist faction known as the New Policies Group, headed by Chancellor Wang Anshi (1021–1085).\n\nIn his \"Dream Pool Essays\" or \"Dream Torrent Essays\" (; \"Mengxi Bitan\") of 1088, Shen was the first to describe the magnetic needle compass, which would be used for navigation (first described in Europe by Alexander Neckam in 1187). Shen discovered the concept of true north in terms of magnetic declination towards the north pole, with experimentation of suspended magnetic needles and \"the improved meridian determined by Shen's [astronomical] measurement of the distance between the pole star and true north\". This was the decisive step in human history to make compasses more useful for navigation, and may have been a concept unknown in Europe for another four hundred years (evidence of German sundials made circa 1450 show markings similar to Chinese geomancer compasses in regard to declination).\n\nAlongside his colleague Wei Pu, Shen planned to map the orbital paths of the Moon and the planets in an intensive five-year project involving daily observations, yet this was thwarted by political opponents at court. To aid his work in astronomy, Shen Kuo made improved designs of the armillary sphere, gnomon, sighting tube, and invented a new type of inflow water clock. Shen Kuo devised a geological hypothesis for land formation (geomorphology), based upon findings of inland marine fossils, knowledge of soil erosion, and the deposition of silt. He also proposed a hypothesis of gradual climate change, after observing ancient petrified bamboos that were preserved underground in a dry northern habitat that would not support bamboo growth in his time. He was the first literary figure in China to mention the use of the drydock to repair boats suspended out of water, and also wrote of the effectiveness of the relatively new invention of the canal pound lock. Although Ibn al-Haytham (965–1039) was the first to describe camera obscura, Shen was the first in China to do so, several decades later. Shen wrote extensively about movable type printing invented by Bi Sheng (990–1051), and because of his written works the legacy of Bi Sheng and the modern understanding of the earliest movable type has been handed down to later generations. Following an old tradition in China, Shen created a raised-relief map while inspecting borderlands. His description of an ancient crossbow mechanism which he himself unearthed proved to be a Jacob's staff, a surveying tool which wasn't known in Europe until described by Levi ben Gerson in 1321.\n\nShen Kuo wrote several other books besides the \"Dream Pool Essays\", yet much of the writing in his other books has not survived. Some of Shen's poetry was preserved in posthumous written works. Although much of his focus was on technical and scientific issues, he had an interest in divination and the supernatural, the latter including his vivid description of unidentified flying objects from eyewitness testimony. He also wrote commentary on ancient Daoist and Confucian texts.\n\nShen Kuo was born in Qiantang (modern-day Hangzhou) in the year 1031. His father Shen Zhou (; 978–1052) was a somewhat lower-class gentry figure serving in official posts on the provincial level; his mother was from a family of equal status in Suzhou, with her maiden name being Xu (). Shen Kuo received his initial childhood education from his mother, which was a common practice in China during this period. She was very educated herself, teaching Kuo and his brother Pi () the military doctrines of her own elder brother Xu Tang (; 975–1016). Since Shen was unable to boast of a prominent familial clan history like many of his elite peers born in the north, he was forced to rely on his wit and stern determination to achieve in his studies, subsequently passing the imperial examinations and enter the challenging and sophisticated life of an exam-drafted state bureaucrat.\nFrom about 1040 AD, Shen's family moved around Sichuan province and finally to the international seaport at Xiamen, where Shen's father accepted minor provincial posts in each new location. Shen Zhou also served several years in the prestigious capital judiciary, the equivalent of a federal supreme court. Shen Kuo took notice of the various towns and rural features of China as his family traveled, while he became interested during his youth in the diverse topography of the land. He also observed the intriguing aspects of his father's engagement in administrative governance and the managerial problems involved; these experiences had a deep impact on him as he later became a government official. Since he often became ill as a child, Shen Kuo also developed a natural curiosity about medicine and pharmaceutics.\n\nShen Zhou died in the late winter of 1051 (or early 1052), when his son Shen Kuo was 21 years old. Shen Kuo grieved for his father, and following Confucian ethics, remained inactive in a state of mourning for three years until 1054 (or early 1055). As of 1054, Shen began serving in minor local governmental posts. However, his natural abilities to plan, organize, and design were proven early in life; one example is his design and supervision of the hydraulic drainage of an embankment system, which converted some one hundred thousand acres (400 km²) of swampland into prime farmland. Shen Kuo noted that the success of the silt fertilization method relied upon the effective operation of sluice gates of irrigation canals.\n\nIn 1063 Shen Kuo successfully passed the Imperial examinations, the difficult national-level standard test that every high official was required to pass in order to enter the governmental system. He not only passed the exam however, but was placed into the higher category of the best and brightest students. While serving at Yangzhou, Shen's brilliance and dutiful character caught the attention of Zhang Chu (; 1015–1080), the Fiscal Intendant of the region. Shen made a lasting impression upon Zhang, who recommended Shen for a court appointment in the financial administration of the central court. Shen would also eventually marry Zhang's daughter, who became his second wife.\n\nIn his career as a scholar-official for the central government, Shen Kuo was also an ambassador to the Western Xia Dynasty and Liao Dynasty, a military commander, a director of hydraulic works, and the leading chancellor of the Hanlin Academy. By 1072, Shen was appointed as the head official of the Bureau of Astronomy. With his leadership position in the bureau, Shen was responsible for projects in improving calendrical science, and proposed many reforms to the Chinese calendar alongside the work of his colleague Wei Pu. With his impressive skills and aptitude for matters of economy and finance, Shen was appointed as the Finance Commissioner at the central court.\n\nAs written by Li Zhiyi, a man married to Hu Wenrou (granddaughter of Hu Su, a famous minister of the Song Dynasty), Shen Kuo was Li's mentor while Shen served as an official. According to Li's epitaph for his wife, Shen would sometimes relay questions via Li to Hu when he needed clarification for his mathematical work, as Hu Wenrou was esteemed by Shen as a remarkable female mathematician. Shen lamented: \"If only she were a man, Wenrou would be my friend.\"\n\nWhile employed by the central government, Shen Kuo was also sent out with others to inspect the granary system of the empire, investigating problems of illegal collections, negligence, ineffective disaster relief, and inadequate water-conservancy projects. While Shen was appointed as the regional inspector of Zhejiang in 1073, the Emperor requested that Shen pay a visit to the famous poet Su Shi (1037–1101), then an administrator in Hangzhou. Shen took advantage of this meeting to copy some of Su's poetry, which he presented to the Emperor indicating that it expressed \"abusive and hateful\" speech against the Song court; these poems were later politicized by Li Ding and Shu Dan in order to level a court case against Su. (The Crow Terrace Poetry Trial, of 1079.) With his demonstrations of loyalty and ability, Shen Kuo was awarded the honorary title of a State Foundation Viscount by Emperor Shenzong of Song (r. 1067–1085), who placed a great amount of trust in Shen Kuo. He was even made 'companion to the heir apparent' (太子中允; 'Taizi zhongyun').\nAt court Shen was a political favorite of the Chancellor Wang Anshi (1021–1086), who was the leader of the political faction of Reformers, also known as the New Policies Group (, Xin Fa). Shen Kuo had a previous history with Wang Anshi, since it was Wang who had composed the funerary epitaph for Shen's father, Zhou. Shen Kuo soon impressed Wang Anshi with his skills and abilities as an administrator and government agent. In 1072, Shen was sent to supervise Wang's program of surveying the building of silt deposits in the Bian Canal outside the capital city. Using an original technique, Shen successfully dredged the canal and demonstrated the formidable value of the silt gathered as a fertilizer. He gained further reputation at court once he was dispatched as an envoy to the Khitan Liao Dynasty in the summer of 1075. The Khitans had made several aggressive negotiations of pushing their borders south, while manipulating several incompetent Song ambassadors who conceded to the Liao Kingdom's demands. In a brilliant display of diplomacy, Shen Kuo came to the camp of the Khitan monarch at Mt. Yongan (near modern Pingquan, Hebei), armed with copies of previously archived diplomatic negotiations between the Song and Liao dynasties. Shen Kuo refuted Emperor Daozong's bluffs point for point, while the Song reestablished their rightful border line. In regard to the Lý Dynasty of Đại Việt (in modern northern Vietnam), Shen demonstrated in his \"Dream Pool Essays\" that he was familiar with the key players (on the Vietnamese side) in the prelude to the Sino-Vietnamese War of 1075–1077. With his reputable achievements, Shen became a trusted member of Wang Anshi's elite circle of eighteen unofficial core political loyalists to the New Policies Group.\nAlthough much of Wang Anshi's reforms outlined in the New Policies centered on state finance, land tax reform, and the Imperial examinations, there were also military concerns. This included policies of raising militias to lessen the expense of upholding a million soldiers, putting government monopolies on saltpetre and sulphur production and distribution in 1076 (to ensure that gunpowder solutions would not fall into the hands of enemies), and aggressive military policy towards Song's northern rivals of the Western Xia and Liao dynasties. A few years after Song Dynasty military forces had made victorious territorial gains against the Tanguts of the Western Xia, in 1080 Shen Kuo was entrusted as a military officer in defense of Yanzhou (modern-day Yan'an, Shaanxi province). During the autumn months of 1081, Shen was successful in defending Song Dynasty territory while capturing several fortified towns of the Western Xia. The Emperor Shenzong of Song rewarded Shen with numerous titles for his merit in these battles, and in the sixteen months of Shen's military campaign, he received 273 letters from the Emperor. However, Emperor Shenzong trusted an arrogant military officer who disobeyed the emperor and Shen's proposal for strategic fortifications, instead fortifying what Shen considered useless strategic locations. Furthermore, this officer expelled Shen from his commanding post at the main citadel, so as to deny him any glory in chance of victory. The result of this was nearly catastrophic, as the forces of the arrogant officer were decimated; Xinzhong Yao states that the death toll was 60,000. Nonetheless, Shen was successful in defending his fortifications and the only possible Tangut invasion-route to Yanzhou.\n\nThe new Chancellor Cai Que (; 1036–1093) held Shen responsible for the disaster and loss of life. Along with abandoning the territory which Shen Kuo had fought for, Cai ousted Shen from his seat of office. Shen's life was now forever changed, as he lost his once reputable career in state governance and the military. Shen was then put under probation in a fixed residence for the next six years. However, as he was isolated from governance, he decided to pick up the ink brush and dedicate himself to intensive scholarly studies. After completing two geographical atlases for a state-sponsored program, Shen was rewarded by having his sentence of probation lifted, allowing him to live in a place of his choice. Shen was also pardoned by the court for any previous faults or crimes that were claimed against him.\nIn his more idle years removed from court affairs, Shen Kuo enjoyed pastimes of the Chinese gentry and literati that would indicate his intellectual level and cultural taste to others. As described in his \"Dream Pool Essays\", Shen Kuo enjoyed the company of the \"nine guests\" (九客, \"jiuke\"), a figure of speech for the Chinese zither, the older 17x17 line variant of weiqi (known today as go), Zen Buddhist meditation, ink (calligraphy and painting), tea drinking, alchemy, chanting poetry, conversation, and drinking wine. These nine activities were an extension to the older so-called Four Arts of the Chinese Scholar.\n\nAccording to Zhu Yu's book \"Pingzhou Table Talks\" (; \"Pingzhou Ketan\") of 1119, Shen Kuo had two marriages; the second wife was the daughter of Zhang Chu (), who came from Huainan. Lady Zhang was said to be overbearing and fierce, often abusive to Shen Kuo, even attempting at one time to pull off his beard. Shen Kuo's children were often upset over this, and prostrated themselves to Lady Zhang to quit this behavior. Despite this, Lady Zhang went as far as to drive out Shen Kuo's son from his first marriage, expelling him from the household. However, after Lady Zhang died, Shen Kuo fell into a deep depression and even attempted to jump into the Yangtze River to drown himself. Although this suicide attempt failed, he would die a year later.\n\nIn the 1070s, Shen had purchased a lavish garden estate on the outskirts of modern-day Zhenjiang, Jiangsu province, a place of great beauty which he named \"Dream Brook\" (\"Mengxi\") after he visited it for the first time in 1086. Shen Kuo permanently moved to the Dream Brook Estate in 1088, and in that same year he completed his life's written work of the \"Dream Pool Essays\", naming the book after his garden-estate property. It was there that Shen Kuo spent the last several years of his life in leisure, isolation, and illness, until his death in 1095.\n\nShen Kuo wrote extensively on a wide range of different subjects. His written work included two geographical atlases, a treatise on music with mathematical harmonics, governmental administration, mathematical astronomy, astronomical instruments, martial defensive tactics and fortifications, painting, tea, medicine, and much poetry. His scientific writings have been praised by sinologists such as Joseph Needham and Nathan Sivin, and he has been compared by Sivin to polymaths such as his contemporary Su Song, as well as Gottfried Leibniz and Mikhail Lomonosov.\n\nIf the account of Sima Qian (c. 145–86 BC) in his \"Records of the Grand Historian\" is proven correct upon the unearthing of Qin Shi Huang's (r. 221–210 BC) tomb, the raised-relief map has existed since the Qin Dynasty (221–206 BC). Robert Temple and Joseph Needham suggest that certain pottery vessels of the Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD) showing artificial mountains as lid decorations may have influenced the raised-relief map. The Han Dynasty general Ma Yuan (14 BC – 49 AD) made a raised-relief map of valleys and mountains in a rice-constructed model of 32 AD. Such rice models were expounded on by the Tang Dynasty (618–907) author Jiang Fang in his \"Essay on the Art of Constructing Mountains with Rice\" (c. 845 AD). A raised-relief map made of wood representing all the provinces of the empire and put together like a giant 0.93 m (10 ft) jigsaw puzzle was invented by Xie Zhuang (421–466 AD) during the Liu Song Dynasty (420–479).\n\nShen's largest atlas included twenty three maps of China and foreign regions that were drawn at a uniform scale of 1:900,000. Shen also created a raised-relief map using sawdust, wood, beeswax, and wheat paste. Zhu Xi (1130–1200) was inspired by the raised-relief map of Huang Shang and so made his own portable map made of wood and clay which could be folded up from eight hinged pieces.\n\nFor pharmacology, Shen wrote of the difficulties of adequate diagnosis and therapy, as well as the proper selection, preparation, and administration of drugs. He held great concern for detail and philological accuracy in identification, use and cultivation of different types of medicinal herbs, such as in which months medicinal plants should be gathered, their exact ripening times, which parts should be used for therapy; for domesticated herbs he wrote about planting times, fertilization, and other matters of horticulture. In the realms of botany, zoology, and mineralogy, Shen Kuo documented and systematically described hundreds of different plants, agricultural crops, rare vegetation, animals, and minerals found in China. For example, Shen noted that the mineral orpiment was used to quickly erase writing errors on paper.\n\nThe writing of Shen Kuo is the only source for the date when the drydock was first used in China. Shen Kuo wrote that during the Xi-Ning reign (1068–1077), the court official Huang Huaixin devised a plan for repairing 60 m (200 ft) long palatial boats that were a century old; essentially, Huang Huaixin devised the first Chinese drydock for suspending boats out of water. These boats were then placed in a roof-covered dock warehouse to protect them from weathering. Shen also wrote about the effectiveness of the new invention (i.e. by the 10th century engineer Qiao Weiyo) of the pound lock to replace the old flash lock design used in canals. He wrote that it saved the work of five hundred annual labors, annual costs of up to 1,250,000 strings of cash, and increased the size limit of boats accommodated from 21 tons/21000 kg to 113 tons/115000 kg.\n\nIf it were not for Shen Kuo's analysis and quoting in his \"Dream Pool Essays\" of the writings of the architect Yu Hao (fl. 970), the latter's work would have been lost to history. Yu designed a famous wooden pagoda that burned down in 1044 and was replaced in 1049 by a brick pagoda (the 'Iron Pagoda') of similar height, but not of his design. From Shen's quotation—or perhaps Shen's own paraphrasing of Yu Hao's \"Timberwork Manual\" (木經; \"Mujing\")—shows that already in the 10th century there was a graded system of building unit proportions, a system which Shen states had become more precise in his time but stating no one could possibly reproduce such a sound work. However, he did not anticipate the more complex and matured system of unit proportions embodied in the extensive written work by scholar-official Li Jie (1065–1110), the \"Treatise on Architectural Methods\" (營造法式; \"Yingzao Fashi\") of 1103. Klaas Ruitenbeek states that the version of the \"Timberwork Manual\" quoted by Shen is most likely Shen's summarization of Yu's work or a corrupted passage of the original by Yu Hao, as Shen writes: \"According to some, the work was written by Yu Hao.\"\n\nThe Chinese had long taken an interest in examining the human body. For example, in 16 AD the Xin Dynasty usurper Wang Mang called for the dissection of an executed man, to examine his arteries and viscera in order to discover cures for illnesses. Shen also took interest in human anatomy, dispelling the long-held Chinese theory that the throat contained three valves, writing, \"When liquid and solid are imbibed together, how can it be that in one's mouth they sort themselves into two throat channels?\" Shen maintained that the larynx was the beginning of a system that distributed vital \"qi\" from the air throughout the body, and that the esophagus was a simple tube that dropped food into the stomach. Following Shen's reasoning and correcting the findings of the dissection of executed bandits in 1045, an early 12th-century Chinese account of a bodily dissection finally supported Shen's belief in two throat valves, not three. Also, the later Song Dynasty judge and early forensic expert Song Ci (1186–1249) would promote the use of autopsy in order to solve homicide cases, as written in his \"Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified\".\n\nIn the broad field of mathematics, Shen Kuo mastered many practical mathematical problems, including many complex formulas for geometry, circle packing, and chords and arcs problems employing trigonometry. Shen addressed problems of writing out very large numbers, as large as 10. Shen's \"technique of small increments\" laid the foundation in Chinese mathematics for packing problems involving equal difference series. Sal Restivo writes that Shen used summation of higher series to ascertain the number of kegs which could be piled in layers in a space shaped like the frustum of a rectangular pyramid. In his formula \"technique of intersecting circles\", he created an approximation of the arc of a circle \"s\" given the diameter \"d\", sagitta \"v\", and length of the chord \"c\" subtending the arc, the length of which he approximated as \"s\" = \"c\" + 2v/d. Restivo writes that Shen's work in the lengths of arcs of circles provided the basis for spherical trigonometry developed in the 13th century by Guo Shoujing (1231–1316). He also simplified the counting rods technique by outlining short cuts in algorithm procedures used on the counting board, an idea expanded on by the mathematician Yang Hui (1238–1298). Victor J. Katz asserts that Shen's method of \"dividing by 9, increase by 1; dividing by 8, increase by 2,\" was a direct forerunner to the rhyme scheme method of repeated addition \"9, 1, bottom add 1; 9, 2, bottom add 2\".\n\nShen wrote extensively about what he had learned while working for the state treasury, including mathematical problems posed by computing land tax, estimating requirements, currency issues, metrology, and so forth. Shen once computed the amount of terrain space required for battle formations in military strategy, and also computed the longest possible military campaign given the limits of human carriers who would bring their own food and food for other soldiers. Shen wrote about the earlier Yi Xing (672–717), a Buddhist monk who applied an early escapement mechanism to a water-powered celestial globe. By using mathematical permutations, Shen described Yi Xing's calculation of possible positions on a \"go\" board game. Shen calculated the total number for this using up to five rows and twenty five game pieces, which yielded the number 847,288,609,443.\n\nShen Kuo experimented with the pinhole camera and burning mirror as the ancient Chinese Mohists had done in the 4th century BC. Although the Iraqi Muslim scientist Ibn al-Haytham (965–1039) was the first to experiment with camera obscura, Shen Kuo was the first to attribute geometrical and quantitative properties to the camera obscura, just several decades after Ibn al-Haytham's death. Using a fitting metaphor, Shen compared optical image inversion to an oarlock and waisted drum. He also discussed focal points and noted that the image in a concave mirror is inverted. Shen, who never asserted that he was the first to experiment with camera obscura, hints in his writing that camera obscura was dealt with in the \"Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang\" written by Duan Chengshi (d. 863) during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), in regard to the inverted image of a Chinese pagoda by a seashore.\n\nSince the time of the engineer and inventor Ma Jun (c. 200–265), the Chinese had used the south-pointing chariot, which did not employ magnetism, as a compass. In 1044 the \"Collection of the Most Important Military Techniques\" (; \"Wujing Zongyao\") recorded that fish-shaped objects cut from sheet iron, magnetized by thermoremanence (essentially, heating that produced weak magnetic force), and placed in a water-filled bowl enclosed by a box were used for directional pathfinding alongside the south-pointing chariot.\nHowever, it was not until the time of Shen Kuo that the earliest magnetic compasses would be used for navigation. In his written work, Shen Kuo made the first known explicit reference to the magnetic compass-needle and the concept of true north. He wrote that steel needles were magnetized once they were rubbed with lodestone, and that they were put in floating position or in mountings; he described the suspended compass as the best form to be used, and noted that the magnetic needle of compasses pointed either south or north. Shen Kuo asserted that the needle will point south but with a deviation, stating \"[the magnetic needles] are always displaced slightly east rather than pointing due south.\"\n\nShen Kuo wrote that it was preferable to use the twenty-four-point rose instead of the old eight compass cardinal points — and the former was recorded in use for navigation shortly after Shen's death. The preference of use for the twenty-four-point-rose compass may have arisen from Shen's finding of a more accurate astronomical meridian, determined by his measurement between the pole star and true north; however, it could also have been inspired by geomantic beliefs and practices. The book of the author Zhu Yu, the \"Pingzhou Table Talks\" published in 1119 (written from 1111 to 1117), was the first record of use of a compass for seafaring navigation. However, Zhu Yu's book recounts events back to 1086, when Shen Kuo was writing the \"Dream Pool Essays\"; this meant that in Shen's time the compass might have already been in navigational use. In any case, Shen Kuo's writing on magnetic compasses has proved invaluable for understanding China's earliest use of the compass for seafaring navigation.\n\nMany of Shen Kuo's contemporaries were interested in antiquarian pursuits of collecting old artworks. They were also interested in archaeological pursuits, although for rather different reasons than why Shen Kuo held an interest in archaeology. While Shen's educated Confucian contemporaries were interested in obtaining ancient relics and antiques in order to revive their use in rituals, Shen was more concerned with how items from archeological finds were originally manufactured and what their functionality would have been, based on empirical evidence. Shen Kuo criticized those in his day who reconstructed ancient ritual objects using only their imagination and not the tangible evidence from archeological digs or finds. Shen also disdained the notion of others that these objects were products of the \"sages\" or the aristocratic class of antiquity, rightfully crediting the items' manufacture and production to the common working people and artisans of previous eras. Fraser and Haber write that Shen Kuo \"advocated the use of an interdisciplinary approach to archaeology and practiced such an approach himself through his work in metallurgy, optics, and geometry in the study of ancient measures.\"\n\nWhile working in the Bureau of Astronomy, Shen Kuo's interest in archaeology and old relics led him to reconstruct an armillary sphere from existing models as well as from ancient texts that could provide additional information. Shen used ancient mirrors while conducting his optics experiments. He observed ancient weaponry, describing the scaled sight devices on ancient crossbows and the ancients' production of swords with composite blades that had a midrib of wrought iron and low-carbon steel while having two sharp edges of high-carbon steel. Being a knowledgeable musician, Shen also suggested suspending an ancient bell by using a hollow handle. In his assessment of the carved reliefs of the ancient Zhuwei Tomb, Shen stated that the reliefs demonstrate genuine Han Dynasty (202 BC–220 AD) era clothing.\n\nAfter unearthing an ancient crossbow device from a house's garden in Haichow, Jiangsu, Shen discovered that the cross-wire grid sighting device, marked in graduated measurements on the stock, could be used to calculate the height of a distant mountain in the same way that mathematicians could apply right-angle triangles to measure height. Needham asserts Shen had discovered the survey device known as Jacob's staff, which was not described elsewhere until the Provençal Jewish mathematician Levi ben Gerson (1288–1344) wrote of it in 1321. Shen wrote that while viewing the whole of a mountain, the distance on the instrument was long, but while viewing a small part of the mountainside the distance was short due to the device's cross piece that had to be pushed further away from the observer's eye, with the graduation starting on the further end. He wrote that if one placed an arrow on the device and looked past its end, the degree of the mountain could be measured and thus its height could be calculated.\n\nThe ancient Greek Aristotle (384 BC–322 BC) wrote in his \"Meteorology\" of how the earth had the potential for physical change, including the belief that all rivers and seas at one time did not exist where they were, and were dry. The Greek writer Xenophanes (570 BC–480 BC) wrote of how inland marine fossils were evidence that massive periodic flooding had wiped out mankind several times in the past, but never wrote of land formation or shifting seashores. Du Yu (222–285) a Chinese Jin Dynasty officer, believed that the land of hills would eventually be leveled into valleys and valleys would gradually rise to form hills. The Daoist alchemist Ge Hong (284–364) wrote of the legendary immortal Magu; in a written dialogue by Ge, Ma Gu described how what was once the Eastern Sea (i.e. East China Sea) had transformed into solid land where mulberry trees grew, and would one day be filled with mountains and dry, dusty lands. The later Persian Muslim scholar Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī (973–1048) hypothesized that India was once covered by the Indian Ocean while observing rock formations at the mouths of rivers.\nIt was Shen Kuo who formulated a hypothesis about the process of land formation (geomorphology) based upon several observations as evidence. This included his observation of fossil shells in a geological stratum of a mountain hundreds of miles from the ocean. He inferred that the land was reshaped and formed by erosion of the mountains, uplift, and the deposition of silt, after observing strange natural erosions of the Taihang Mountains and the Yandang Mountain near Wenzhou. He hypothesized that, with the inundation of silt, the land of the continent must have been formed over an enormous span of time. While visiting the Taihang Mountains in 1074, Shen Kuo noticed strata of bivalve shells and ovoid rocks in a horizontal-running span through a cliff like a large belt. Shen proposed that the cliff was once the location of an ancient seashore that by his time had shifted hundreds of miles east. Shen wrote that in the Zhiping reign period (1064–1067) a man of Zezhou unearthed an object in his garden that looked like a serpent or dragon, and after examining it, concluded the dead animal had apparently turned to \"stone\". The magistrate of Jincheng, Zheng Boshun, examined the creature as well, and noted the same scale-like markings that were seen on other marine animals. Shen Kuo likened this to the \"stone crabs\" found in China.\n\nShen also wrote that since petrified bamboos were found underground in a climatic area where they had never been known to be grown, the climate there must have shifted geographically over time. Around the year 1080, Shen Kuo noted that a landslide on the bank of a large river near Yanzhou (modern Yan'an) had revealed an open space several dozens of feet under the ground once the bank collapsed. This underground space contained hundreds of petrified bamboos still intact with roots and trunks, \"all turned to stone\" as Shen Kuo wrote. Shen Kuo noted that bamboos do not grow in Yanzhou, located in northern China, and he was puzzled during which previous dynasty the bamboos could have grown. Considering that damp and gloomy low places provide suitable conditions for the growth of bamboo, Shen deduced that the climate of Yanzhou must have fit that description in very ancient times. Although this would have intrigued many of his readers, the study of paleoclimatology in medieval China never developed into an established discipline.\n\nThe philosopher Zhu Xi (1130–1200) wrote of this curious natural phenomenon of fossils as well. He was known to have read the works of Shen Kuo. Shen's description of soil erosion and weathering predated that of Georgius Agricola in his book of 1546, \"De veteribus et novis metallis\". Furthermore, Shen's theory of sedimentary deposition predated that of James Hutton, who published his groundbreaking work in 1802 (considered the foundation of modern geology). Historian Joseph Needham likened Shen's account to that of the Scottish scientist Roderick Murchison (1792–1871), who was inspired to become a geologist after observing a providential landslide.\n\nEarly speculation and hypothesis pertaining to what is now known as meteorology had a long tradition in China before Shen Kuo.\n\nShen wrote vivid descriptions of tornadoes—the first known description of them in East Asia.\n\nHe also gave reasoning (earlier proposed by Sun Sikong, 1015–1076) that rainbows were formed by the shadow of the sun in rain, occurring when the sun would shine upon it. Paul Dong writes that Shen's explanation of the rainbow as a phenomenon of atmospheric refraction \"is basically in accord with modern scientific principles.\" In Europe, Roger Bacon (1214–1294) was the first to suggest that the colors of the rainbow were caused by the reflection and refraction of sunlight through rain drops.\n\nShen hypothesized that rays of sunlight refract before reaching the surface of the earth, hence people on earth observing the sun are not viewing it in its exact position, in other words, the altitude of the apparent sun is higher than the actual altitude of the sun. Dong writes that \"at the time, this discovery was remarkably original.\" Ibn al-Haytham, in his \"Book of Optics\" (1021), also discussed atmospheric refraction (in regard to twilight).\n\nBeing the head official for the Bureau of Astronomy, Shen Kuo was an avid scholar of medieval astronomy, and improved the designs of several astronomical instruments. Shen is credited with making improved designs of the gnomon, armillary sphere, and clepsydra clock. For the clepsydra he designed a new overflow-tank type, and argued for a more efficient higher-order interpolation instead of linear interpolation in calibrating the measure of time. Improving the 5th century model of the astronomical sighting tube, Shen Kuo widened its diameter so that the new calibration could observe the pole star indefinitely. This came about due to the position of the pole star shifting in position since the time of Zu Geng in the 5th century, hence Shen Kuo diligently observed the course of the pole star for three months, plotting the data of its course and coming to the conclusion that it had shifted slightly over three degrees. Apparently this astronomical finding had an impact upon the intellectual community in China at the time. Even Shen's political rival and contemporary astronomer Su Song featured Shen's corrected position of the pole star (halfway between Tian shu, at −350 degrees, and the current Polaris) in the fourth star map of his celestial atlas.\n\nThe astronomical phenomena of the solar eclipse and lunar eclipse had been observed in the 4th century BC by astronomers Gan De and Shi Shen; the latter gave instructions on predicting the eclipses based on the relative position of the Moon to the Sun. The philosopher Wang Chong argued against the 'radiating influence' theory of Jing Fang's writing in the 1st century BC and that of Zhang Heng (78–139); the latter two correctly hypothesized that the brightness of the Moon was merely light reflected from the Sun. Jing Fang had written in the 1st century BC of how it was long accepted in China that the Sun and Moon were spherical in shape ('like a crossbow bullet'), not flat. Shen Kuo also wrote of solar and lunar eclipses in this manner, yet expanded upon this to explain why the celestial bodies were spherical, going against the 'flat earth' theory for celestial bodies. However, there is no evidence to suggest that Shen Kuo supported a round earth theory, which was introduced into Chinese science by Matteo Ricci and Xu Guangqi in the 17th century. When the Director of the Astronomical Observatory asked Shen Kuo if the shapes of the Sun and Moon were round like balls or flat like fans, Shen Kuo explained that celestial bodies were spherical because of knowledge of waxing and waning of the Moon. Much like what Zhang Heng had said, Shen Kuo likened the Moon to a ball of silver, which does not produce light, but simply reflects light if provided from another source (the Sun). He explained that when the Sun's light is slanting, the Moon appears full. He then explained if one were to cover any sort of sphere with white powder, and then viewed from the side it would appear to be a crescent, hence he reasoned that celestial bodies were spherical. He also wrote that, although the Sun and Moon were in conjunction and opposition with each other once a month, this did not mean the Sun would be eclipsed every time their paths met, because of the small obliquity of their orbital paths.\nShen is also known for his cosmological hypotheses in explaining the variations of planetary motions, including retrogradation. His colleague Wei Pu realized that the old calculation technique for the mean Sun was inaccurate compared to the apparent Sun, since the latter was ahead of it in the accelerated phase of motion, and behind it in the retarded phase. Shen's hypotheses were similar to the concept of the epicycle in the Greco-Roman tradition, only Shen compared the side-section of orbital paths of planets and variations of planetary speeds to points in the tips of a willow leaf. In a similar rudimentary physical analogy of celestial motions, as John B. Henderson describes it, Shen likened the relationship of the Moon's path to the ecliptic, the path of the Sun, \"to the figure of a rope coiled about a tree.\"\n\nAlong with his colleague Wei Pu in the Bureau of Astronomy, Shen Kuo planned to plot out the exact coordinates of planetary and lunar movements by recording their astronomical observations three times a night for a continuum of five years. The Song astronomers of Shen's day still retained the lunar theory and coordinates of the earlier Yi Xing, which after 350 years had devolved into a state of considerable error. Shen criticized earlier Chinese astronomers for failing to describe celestial movement in spatial terms, yet he did not attempt to provide any reasoning for the motive power of the planets or other celestial movements. Shen and Wei began astronomical observations for the Moon and planets by plotting their locations three times a night for what should have been five successive years. The officials and astronomers at court were deeply opposed Wei and Shen's work, offended by their insistence that the coordinates of the renowned Yi Xing were inaccurate. They also slandered Wei Pu, out of resentment that a commoner had expertise exceeding theirs. When Wei and Shen made a public demonstration using the gnomon to prove the doubtful wrong, the other ministers reluctantly agreed to correct the lunar and solar errors. Despite this success, they eventually dismissed Wei and Shen's tables of planetary motions. Therefore, only the worst and most obvious planetary errors were corrected, and many inaccuracies remained.\n\nShen Kuo wrote that during the Qingli reign period (1041–1048), under Emperor Renzong of Song (1022–1063), an obscure commoner and artisan known as Bi Sheng (990–1051) invented ceramic movable type printing. Although the use of assembling individual characters to compose a piece of text had its origins in antiquity, Bi Sheng's methodical innovation was something completely revolutionary for his time. Shen Kuo noted that the process was tedious if one only wanted to print a few copies of a book, but if one desired to make hundreds or thousands of copies, the process was incredibly fast and efficient. Beyond Shen Kuo's writing, however, nothing is known of Bi Sheng's life or the influence of movable type in his lifetime. Although the details of Bi Sheng's life were scarcely known, Shen Kuo wrote:\nWhen Bi Sheng died, his fount of type passed into the possession of my followers (i.e. one of Shen's nephews), among whom it has been kept as a precious possession until now.\nThere are a few surviving examples of books printed in the late Song Dynasty using movable type printing. This includes Zhou Bida's \"Notes of The Jade Hall\" () printed in 1193 using the method of baked-clay movable type characters outlined in the \"Dream Pool Essays\". Yao Shu (1201–1278), an advisor to Kublai Khan, once persuaded a disciple Yang Gu to print philological primers and Neo-Confucian texts by using what he termed the \"movable type of Shen Kuo\". Wang Zhen (fl. 1290–1333), who wrote the valuable agricultural, scientific, and technological treatise of the \"Nong Shu\", mentioned an alternative method of baking earthenware type with earthenware frames in order to make whole blocks. Wang Zhen also improved its use by inventing wooden movable type in the years 1297 or 1298, while he was a magistrate of Jingde, Anhui province. The earlier Bi Sheng had experimented with wooden movable type, but Wang's main contribution was improving the speed of typesetting with simple mechanical devices, along with the complex, systematic arrangement of wooden movable type involving the use of revolving tables. Although later metal movable type would be used in China, Wang Zhen experimented with tin metal movable type, but found its use to be inefficient.\n\nBy the 15th century, metal movable type printing was developed in Ming Dynasty China (and earlier in Joseon Korea, by the mid 13th century), and was widely applied in China by at least the 16th century. In Jiangsu and Fujian, wealthy Ming era families sponsored the use of metal type printing (mostly using bronze). This included the printing works of Hua Sui (1439–1513), who pioneered the first Chinese bronze-type movable printing in the year 1490. In 1718, during the mid Qing Dynasty (1644–1912), the scholar of Tai'an known as Xu Zhiding developed movable type with enamelware instead of earthenware. There was also Zhai Jinsheng (b. 1784), a teacher of Jingxian, Anhui, who spent thirty years making a font of earthenware movable type, and by 1844 he had over 100,000 Chinese writing characters in five sizes.\n\nDespite these advances, movable type printing never gained the amount of widespread use in East Asia that woodblock printing had achieved since the Chinese Tang Dynasty in the 9th century. With written Chinese, the vast amount of written morpheme characters impeded movable type's acceptance and practical use, and was therefore seen as largely unsatisfactory. Furthermore, the European printing press, first invented by Johannes Gutenberg (1398–1468), was eventually wholly adopted as the standard in China, yet the tradition of woodblock printing remains popular in East Asian countries still.\n\nShen Kuo described the phenomena of natural predator insects controlling the population of pests, the latter of which had the potential to wreak havoc upon the agricultural base of China.\n\nWhile visiting the iron producing district at Cizhou in 1075, Shen described the \"partial decarburization\" method of reforging cast iron under a cold blast, which Hartwell, Needham, and Wertime state is the predecessor of the Bessemer process. Shen was worried about deforestation due to the needs of the iron industry and ink makers using pine soot in the production process, so he suggested for the latter an alternative of petroleum, which he believed was \"produced inexhaustibly within the earth\". Shen used the soot from the smoke of burned petroleum fuel (石油 \"Shíyóu\", \"rock oil\" as Shen called it) to invent a new, more durable type of writing ink; the Ming Dynasty pharmacologist Li Shizhen (1518–1593) wrote that Shen's ink was \"lustrous like lacquer, and superior to that made from pinewood lamp-black,\" or the soot from pinewood.\n\nShen Kuo was much in favor of philosophical Daoist notions which challenged the authority of empirical science in his day. Although much could be discerned through empirical observation and recorded study, Daoism asserted that the secrets of the universe were boundless, something that scientific investigation could merely express in fragments and partial understandings. Shen Kuo referred to the ancient Daoist \"I Ching\" in explaining the spiritual processes and attainment of foreknowledge that cannot be attained through \"crude traces\", which he likens to mathematical astronomy. Nathan Sivin proposes that Shen was the first in history to \"make a clear distinction between our unconnected experiences and the unitary causal world we postulate to explain them,\" which Biderman and Scharfstein state is arguably inherent in the works of Heraclitus, Plato, and Democritus as well. Shen was a firm believer in destiny and prognostication, and made rational explanations for the relations between them. Shen held a special interest in fate, mystical divination, bizarre phenomena, yet warned against the tendency to believe that all matters in life were preordained. When describing an event where lightning had struck a house and all the wooden walls did not burn (but simply turned black) and lacquerwares inside were fine, yet metal objects had melted into liquid, Shen Kuo wrote:\n\nMost people can only judge of things by the experiences of ordinary life, but phenomena outside the scope of this are really quite numerous. How insecure it is to investigate natural principles using only the light of common knowledge, and subjective ideas.\n\nIn his commentary on the ancient Confucian philosopher Mencius (372–289 BC), Shen wrote of the importance of choosing to follow what one knew to be a true path, yet the heart and mind could not attain full knowledge of truth through mere sensory experience. In his own unique way but using terms influenced by the ideas of Mencius, Shen wrote of an autonomous inner authority that formed the basis for one's inclination towards moral choices, a concept linked to Shen's life experiences of surviving and obtaining success through self-reliance. Along with his commentary on the Chinese classic texts, Shen Kuo also wrote extensively on the topics of supernatural divination and Buddhist meditation.\n\nAs an art critic, Shen criticized the paintings of Li Cheng (919–967) for failing to observe the principle of \"seeing the small from the viewpoint of the large\" in portraying buildings and the like. He praised the works of Dong Yuan (c. 934–c. 962); he noted that although a close-up view of Dong's work would create the impression that his brush techniques were cursory, seen from afar his landscape paintings would give the impression of grand, resplendent, and realistic scenery. In addition, Shen's writing on Dong's artworks represents the earliest known reference to the Jiangnan style of painting. In his \"Song on Painting\" and in his \"Dream Pool Essays\", Shen praised the creative artworks of the Tang painter Wang Wei (701–761); Shen noted that Wang was unique in that he \"penetrated into the mysterious reason and depth of creative activity,\" but was criticized by others for not conforming his paintings to reality, such as his painting with a banana tree growing in a snowy, wintry landscape.\n\nMuch of Shen Kuo's written work was probably purged under the leadership of minister Cai Jing (1046–1126), who revived the New Policies of Wang Anshi, although he set out on a campaign of attrition to destroy or radically alter the written work of his predecessors and especially Conservative enemies. For example, only six of Shen's books remain, and four of these have been significantly altered since the time they were penned by the author.\n\nIn modern times, the best attempt at a complete list and summary of Shen's writing was an appendix written by Hu Daojing in his standard edition of \"Brush Talks\", written in 1956.\n\nShen Kuo's \"Dream Pool Essays\" consists of some 507 separate essays exploring a wide range of subjects. It was Shen's ultimate attempt to comprehend and describe a multitude of various aspects of nature, science, and reality, and all the practical and profound curiosities found in the world. The literal translation of the title, \"Dream Brook Brush Talks\", refers to his Dream Brook estate, where he spent the last years of his life. About the title, he is quoted as saying: \"Because I had only my writing brush and ink slab to converse with, I call it Brush Talks.\"\n\nThe book was originally 30 chapters long, yet an unknown Chinese author's edition of 1166 edited and reorganized the work into 26 chapters.\n\nA passage called \"Strange Happenings\" contains a peculiar account of an unidentified flying object.\n\nAlthough the \"Dream Pool Essays\" is certainly his most extensive and important work, Shen Kuo wrote other books as well. In 1075, Shen Kuo wrote the \"Xining Fengyuan Li\" (; \"The Oblatory Epoch astronomical system of the Splendid Peace reign period\"), which was lost, but listed in a 7th chapter of a Song Dynasty bibliography. This was the official report of Shen Kuo on his reforms of the Chinese calendar, which were only partially adopted by the Song court's official calendar system. During his years of retirement from governmental service, Shen Kuo compiled a formulary known as the \"Liang Fang\" (; \"Good medicinal formulas\"). Around the year 1126 it was combined with a similar collection by the famous Su Shi (1037–1101), who was ironically a political opponent to Shen Kuo's faction of Reformers and New Policies supporters at court, yet it was known that Shen Kuo and Su Shi were nonetheless friends and associates. Shen wrote the \"Mengqi Wanghuai Lu\" (; \"Record of longings forgotten at Dream Brook\"), which was also compiled during Shen's retirement. This book was a treatise in the working since his youth on rural life and ethnographic accounts of living conditions in the isolated mountain regions of China. Only quotations of it survive in the \"Shuo Fu\" () collection, which mostly describe the agricultural implements and tools used by rural people in high mountain regions. Shen Kuo also wrote the \"Changxing Ji\" (; \"Collected Literary Works of [the Viscount of] Changxing\"). However, this book was without much doubt a posthumous collection, including various poems, prose, and administrative documents written by Shen. By the 15th century (during the Ming Dynasty), this book was reprinted, yet only the 19th chapter remained. This chapter was reprinted in 1718, yet poorly edited. Finally, in the 1950s the author Hu Daojing supplemented this small yet valuable work with additions of other scattered poems written by Shen, in the former's \"Collection of Shen Kua's Extant Poetry\" (Shanghai: Shang-hai Shu-tian, 1958). In the tradition of the popular Song era literary category of 'travel record literature' ('youji wenxue'), Shen Kuo also wrote the \"Register of What Not to Forget\", a traveler's guide to what type of carriage is suitable for a journey, the proper foods one should bring, the special clothing one should bring, and many other items.\n\nIn his \"Sequel to Numerous Things Revealed\", the Song author Cheng Dachang (1123–1195) noted that stanzas prepared by Shen Kuo for military victory celebrations were later written down and published by Shen. This includes a short poem \"Song of Triumph\" by Shen Kuo, who uses the musical instrument \"mawei huqin\" ('horse-tail barbarian stringed instrument' or 'horse-tail fiddle') of the northwestern Inner Asian nomads as a metaphor for prisoners-of-war led by Song troops:\n\nHistorian Jonathan Stock notes that the bent bow described in the poem above represents the arched bow used to play the \"huqin\", while the sound of the instrument itself represented the discontent expressed by the prisoners-of-war with their defeated khan.\n\nIn the \"Routledge Curzon Encyclopedia of Confucianism\", Xinzhong Yao states that Shen Kuo's legacy was tainted by his eager involvement in Wang Anshi's New Policies reforms, his actions criticized in the later traditional histories. However, Shen's reputation as a polymath has been well regarded. The British sinologist, historian, and biochemist Joseph Needham (1900–1995) stated that Shen Kuo was \"one of the greatest scientific minds in Chinese history.\" The French sinologist Jacques Gernet is of the opinion that Shen possessed an \"amazingly modern mind.\" Yao states of Shen's thorough recording of natural sciences in his \"Dream Pool Essays\":\nWe must regard Shen Kuo's collection as an indispensable primary source attesting to the unmatched level of attainment achieved by Chinese science prior to the twelfth century.\nHowever, Toby E. Huff writes that Shen Kuo's \"scattered set\" of writings lacks clear-cut organization and \"theoretical acuteness,\" that is, scientific theory. Nathan Sivin wrote that Shen's originality stands \"cheek by jowl with trivial didacticism, court anecdotes, and ephemeral curiosities\" that provide little insight. Donald Holzman writes that Shen \"has nowhere organized his observations into anything like a general theory.\" Huff writes that this was a systemic problem of early Chinese science, which lacked systematic treatment that could be found in European works such as the \"Concordance and Discordant Canons\" by the lawyer Gratian of Bologna (fl. 12th century). In regard to an overarching concept of science which could branch together all the various sciences studied by the Chinese, Sivin asserts that the writings of Shen Kuo \"do not indicate that he achieved, or even sought, an integrated framework for his diverse knowledge; the one common thread is the varied responsibilities of his career as a high civil servant.\"\n\nUpon his death, Shen Kuo was interred in a tomb in Yuhang District of Hangzhou, at the foot of the Taiping Hill. His tomb was eventually destroyed, yet Ming Dynasty records indicated its location, which was found in 1983 and protected by the government in 1986. The remnants of the tomb's brick structure remained, along with Song Dynasty glasswares and coins. The Hangzhou Municipal Committee completed a restoration of Shen's tomb in September 2001.\n\nIn addition to his tomb, Shen Kuo's \"Mengxi\" garden estate, his former two acre (8,000 m²) property in Zhenjiang, was restored by the government in 1985. However, the renovated Mengxi Garden is only part of the original of Shen Kuo's time. A Qing Dynasty era hall built on the site is now used as the main admissions gate. In the Memorial Hall of the gardens, there is a large painting depicting the original garden of Shen Kuo's time, including wells, green bamboo groves, stone-paved paths, and decorated walls of the original halls. In this exhibition hall there stands a 1.4 m (4.6 ft) tall statue of Shen Kuo sitting on a platform, along with centuries-old published copies of his \"Dream Pool Essays\" in glass cabinets, one of which is from Japan. At the garden estate there are also displayed marble banners, statues of Shen Kuo, and a model of an armillary sphere; a small museum gallery depicts Shen's various achievements.\n\nThe Purple Mountain Observatory in Nanjing discovered a new asteroid in 1964 and named it after Shen Kuo (2027 Shen Guo).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18405360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18405360", "title": "Silver Creek (Oregon)", "text": "Silver Creek (Oregon)\n\nSilver Creek is the name of several different streams, locales, and other features in the U.S. state of Oregon, including:\n"}
{"id": "3331283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3331283", "title": "Suction cup", "text": "Suction cup\n\nA suction cup, also known as a sucker, is a device or object that uses the negative fluid pressure of air or water to adhere to nonporous surfaces, creating a partial vacuum.\n\nSuction cups are peripherial traits of some animals such as octopuses and squids, and have been reproduced artificially for numerous purposes.\n\nThe working face of the suction cup is made of elastic, flexible material and has a curved surface. When the center of the suction cup is pressed against a flat, non-porous surface, the volume of the space between the suction cup and the flat surface is reduced, which causes the air or water between the cup and the surface to be expelled past the rim of the circular cup. The cavity which develops between the cup and the flat surface has little to no air or water in it because most of the fluid has already been forced out of the inside of the cup, causing a lack of pressure. The pressure difference between the atmosphere on the outside of the cup and the low-pressure cavity on the inside of the cup keeps the cup adhered to the surface.\n\nWhen the user ceases to apply physical pressure to the outside of the cup, the elastic substance of which the cup is made tends to resume its original, curved shape. The length of time for which the suction effect can be maintained depends mainly on how long it takes for air or water to leak back into the cavity between the cup and the surface, equalizing the pressure with the surrounding atmosphere. This depends on the porosity and flatness of the surface and the properties of the cup's rim.\n\nThe force required to detach an ideal suction cup by pulling it directly away from the surface is given by the formula:\nwhere:\n\nThis is derived from the definition of pressure, which is:\nFor example, a suction cup of radius 2.0 cm has an area of formula_3(0.020 m) = 0.0013 square meters. Using the force formula (\"F\" = \"AP\"), the result is\n\"F\" = (0.0013 m)(100,000 Pa) = about 130 newtons.\n\nThe above formula relies on several assumptions:\n\nArtificial suction cups are believed to have first been used in the third century, B.C., and were made out of gourds. They were used to suction \"bad blood\" from internal organs to the surface. Hippocrates is believed to have invented this procedure.\n\nThe first modern suction cup patents were issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office during the 1860s. TC Roche was awarded U.S. Patent No. 52,748 in 1866 for a \"Photographic Developer Dipping Stick\"; the patent discloses a primitive suction cup means for handling photographic plates during developing procedures. In 1868, Orwell Needham patented a more refined suction cup design, U.S. Patent No. 82,629, calling his invention an \"Atmospheric Knob\" purposed for general use as a handle and drawer opening means.\n\nSuction cups have a number of commercial and industrial applications:\n\nOn May 25, 1981, Dan Goodwin, a.k.a. SpiderDan, scaled Sears Tower, the former world's tallest building, with a pair of suction cups. He went on to scale the Renaissance Center in Dallas, the Bonaventure Hotel in Los Angeles, the World Trade Center in New York City, Parque Central Tower in Caracas, the Nippon TV station in Tokyo, and the Millennium Tower in San Francisco.\n\n"}
{"id": "909019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=909019", "title": "Sun-synchronous orbit", "text": "Sun-synchronous orbit\n\nA Sun-synchronous orbit (SSO, also called a heliosynchronous orbit) is a nearly polar orbit around a planet, in which the satellite passes over any given point of the planet's surface at the same local mean solar time. More technically, it is an orbit arranged so that it precesses through one complete revolution each year, so it always maintains the same relationship with the Sun.\n\nA Sun-synchronous orbit can place a satellite in constant sunlight, which allows the solar panels to work continually. This orbit is also useful for imaging, spy, and weather satellites, because every time that the satellite is overhead, the surface illumination angle on the planet underneath it will be nearly the same. This consistent lighting is a useful characteristic for satellites that image the Earth's surface in visible or infrared wavelengths, such as weather and spy satellites; and for other remote-sensing satellites, such as those carrying ocean and atmospheric remote-sensing instruments that require sunlight. For example, a satellite in Sun-synchronous orbit might ascend across the equator twelve times a day each time at approximately 15:00 mean local time.\n\nSpecial cases of the Sun-synchronous orbit are the noon/midnight orbit, where the local mean solar time of passage for equatorial latitudes is around noon or midnight, and the dawn/dusk orbit, where the local mean solar time of passage for equatorial latitudes is around sunrise or sunset, so that the satellite rides the terminator between day and night. Riding the terminator is useful for active radar satellites, as the satellites' solar panels can always see the Sun, without being shadowed by the Earth. It is also useful for some satellites with passive instruments that need to limit the Sun's influence on the measurements, as it is possible to always point the instruments towards the night side of the Earth. The dawn/dusk orbit has been used for solar-observing scientific satellites such as Yohkoh, TRACE, Hinode and PROBA2, affording them a nearly continuous view of the Sun.\n\nA Sun-synchronous orbit is achieved by having the osculating orbital plane precess (rotate) approximately one degree eastward each day with respect to the celestial sphere to keep pace with the Earth's movement around the Sun. This precession is achieved by tuning the inclination to the altitude of the orbit (see Technical details) such that Earth's equatorial bulge, which perturbs inclined orbits, causes the orbital plane of the spacecraft to precess with the desired rate. The plane of the orbit is not fixed in space relative to the distant stars, but rotates slowly about the Earth's axis.\n\nTypical Sun-synchronous orbits around Earth are about 600–800 km in altitude, with periods in the 96–100-minute range, and inclinations of around 98°. This is slightly retrograde compared to the direction of Earth's rotation: 0° represents an equatorial orbit, and 90° represents a polar orbit.\n\nSun-synchronous orbits can happen around other oblate planets, such as Mars. A satellite around the almost spherical Venus, for example, will need an outside push to maintain a Sun-synchronous orbit. \n\nThe angular precession per orbit for an orbit around an oblate planet is (equation 24 of the article Orbital perturbation analysis (spacecraft)) given by\nwhere\n\nAn orbit will be Sun-synchronous when the precession rate equals the mean motion of the Earth about the Sun, which is 360° per sidereal year (), so we must set , where is the orbital period.\n\nAs the orbital period of a spacecraft is\n(where is the semi-major axis of the orbit), and as for a circular or almost circular orbit, it follows that\nor when is 360° per year,\n\nAs an example, for = (the spacecraft about 800 km over the Earth surface) one gets with this formula a Sun-synchronous inclination of 98.696°.\n\nNote that according to this approximation equals −1 when the semi-major axis equals , which means that only smaller orbits can be Sun-synchronous. The period can be in the range from 88 minutes for a very low orbit ( = , = 96°) to 3.8 hours ( = , but this orbit would be equatorial with = 180°). A period longer than 3.8 hours may be possible by using an eccentric orbit with < but > .\n\nIf one wants a satellite to fly over some given spot on Earth every day at the same hour, it can do between 7 and 16 orbits per day, as shown in the following table. (The table has been calculated assuming the periods given. The orbital period that should be used is actually slightly longer. For instance, a retrograde equatorial orbit that passes over the same spot after 24 hours has a true period about ≈ 1.0027 times longer than the time between overpasses. For non-equatorial orbits the factor is closer to 1.)\nWhen one says that a Sun-synchronous orbit goes over a spot on the Earth at the same \"local time\" each time, this refers to mean solar time, not to apparent solar time. The Sun will not be in exactly the same position in the sky during the course of the year (see Equation of time and Analemma).\n\nSun-synchronous orbits are mostly selected for Earth observation satellites, with an altitude typically between 600 and over the Earth surface. Even if an orbit remains Sun-synchronous, however, other orbital parameters such as argument of periapsis and the orbital eccentricity will evolve, due to higher order perturbations in the Earth's gravitational field, the pressure of sunlight, and other causes. Earth observation satellites, in particular, prefer orbits with constant altitude when passing over the same spot. Careful selection of eccentricity and location of perigee reveals specific combinations where the perturbations largely cancel and hence the orbit is relatively stable – a frozen orbit. The ERS-1, ERS-2 and Envisat of European Space Agency, as well as the MetOp spacecraft of EUMETSAT, are all operated in such Sun-synchronous frozen orbits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10769478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10769478", "title": "Tabasheer", "text": "Tabasheer\n\nTabasheer (Hindustani: तबाशीर or طباشیر) or \"Banslochan\" (बंसलोचन, بنسلوچن), also spelt as Tabachir or Tabashir, is a translucent white substance, composed mainly of silica and water with traces of lime and potash, obtained from the nodal joints of some species of bamboo. It is part of the pharmacology of the traditional Ayurvedic and Unani systems of medicine of the Indian subcontinent. It is also an ingredient in many traditional Chinese medicines.\n\nTabasheer is claimed to provide a variety of health benefits. It is variously regarded as an antipyretic, antispasmodic, antiparalytic, restorative and aphrodisiac.\n\nTabasheer that has a blueish tint (usually called \"neel\" or \"neelkanth\") is considered superior to tabasheer that has the \"more plain\" yellow or white color.\n\nNot all bamboo stems contain tabasheer. Likely candidates are found by shaking bamboo stems, which can make the mineralized tabasheer inside produce a rattling sound. These stems are split open to extract the tabasheer.\n\nAlthough a part of the ancient Ayurvedic system of medicine, it has been postulated that the use of tabasheer originated in the Adivasi aboriginal tribes of India. Tabasheer was extensively exported from India for thousands of years, including through Arab traders during the medieval period. The town of Thane, close to the west coast of India, was famous as a clearing center for tabasheer in the twelfth century CE. It was called σάκχαρον in the writings of Pedanius Dioscorides, a Greek pharmacologist who practiced in Rome in the time of Nero.\n\n\"Tabasheer\" is referred to as \"Tvaksheera\" (त्वक्षीर) in Sanskrit, which means \"bark milk\". Other Sanskrit-derived names have been applied to tabasheer as well, including \"bamboo sugar\" (\"vans-sharkar\"), \"bamboo camphor\" (\"vans karpoor\") and \"bamboo manna\". It is called \"Tian Zhu Huang\" in Mandarin, which means \"\"heavenly bamboo yellow\".\"\n"}
{"id": "3004843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004843", "title": "Thanetian", "text": "Thanetian\n\nThe Thanetian is, in the ICS Geologic timescale, the latest age or uppermost stratigraphic stage of the Paleocene Epoch or series. It spans the time between . The Thanetian is preceded by the Selandian age and followed by the Ypresian age (part of the Eocene). The Thanetian is sometimes referred to as the Late Paleocene.\n\nThe Thanetian was established by Swiss geologist Eugène Renevier in 1873. The Thanetian is named after the Thanet Formation, the oldest Cenozoic deposit of the London Basin, which was first identified in the area of Kent (southern England) known as the Isle of Thanet.\n\nThe base of the Thanetian stage is laid at the base of magnetic chronozone C26n. The references profile (Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point) is in the Zumaia section (43° 18'N, 2° 16'W) at the beach of Itzurun, Pais Vasco, northern Spain. Fossils of the unicellular planktonic marine coccolithophore \"Areoligeria gippingensis ' make their first appearance at the base of the Thanetian, and help define its lowest stratigraphic boundary.\n\nThe top of the Thanetian stage (the base of the Ypresian) is defined at a strong negative anomaly in δC values at the global thermal maximum at the Paleocene-Eocene boundary.\n\nThe Thanetian stage is coeval the lower Neustrian European land mammal age (it spans the Mammal Paleogene zone 6 and part of zones 1 through 5.), the upper Tiffanian and Clarkforkian North American land mammal ages, the Riochican and part of the Itaboraian South American land mammal ages and the upper Nongshanian and Gashatan Asian land mammal ages. The Thanetian is contemporary with the middle Wangerripian regional stage of Australia and the upper Ynezian regional stage of California. It overlaps the obsolete regional stages Landenian and Heersian of Belgium.\n\nThe \"Sézanne flora\" is a fossil assemblage preserved in freshwater limestone deposits at Sézanne, laid down during the Thanetian age, when Europe enjoyed a tropical climate. In the lagerstätte, leaves, entire flowers and seeds are minutely preserved. Also, the first representatives of Proboscidea appeared, \"Eritherium\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32128", "title": "Uniformitarianism", "text": "Uniformitarianism\n\nUniformitarianism, also known as the Doctrine of Uniformity, refers to the invariance in the principles underpinning science, such as the constancy of causality, or causation, throughout time, but it has also been used to describe invariance of physical laws through time and space. Though an unprovable postulate that cannot be verified using the scientific method, uniformitarianism has been a key first principle of virtually all fields of science.\n\nIn geology, uniformitarianism has included the gradualistic concept that \"the present is the key to the past\" (that events occur at the same rate now as they have always done); many geologists now, however, no longer hold to a strict theory of gradualism. Coined by William Whewell, the word was proposed in contrast to catastrophism by British naturalists in the late 18th century, starting with the work of the geologist James Hutton in his many books including \"Theory of the Earth\". Hutton's work was later refined by scientist John Playfair and popularised by geologist Charles Lyell's \"Principles of Geology\" in 1830. Today, Earth's history is considered to have been a slow, gradual process, punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events.\n\nThe earlier conceptions likely had little influence on 18th-century European geological explanations for the formation of Earth. Abraham Gottlob Werner (1749–1817) proposed Neptunism, where strata represented deposits from shrinking seas precipitated onto primordial rocks such as granite. In 1785 James Hutton proposed an opposing, self-maintaining infinite cycle based on natural history and not on the Biblical account.\nHutton then sought evidence to support his idea that there must have been repeated cycles, each involving deposition on the seabed, uplift with tilting and erosion, and then moving undersea again for further layers to be deposited. At Glen Tilt in the Cairngorm mountains he found granite penetrating metamorphic schists, in a way which indicated to him that the presumed primordial rock had been molten after the strata had formed. He had read about angular unconformities as interpreted by Neptunists, and found an unconformity at Jedburgh where layers of greywacke in the lower layers of the cliff face have been tilted almost vertically before being eroded to form a level plane, under horizontal layers of Old Red Sandstone. In the spring of 1788 he took a boat trip along the Berwickshire coast with John Playfair and the geologist Sir James Hall, and found a dramatic unconformity showing the same sequence at Siccar Point. Playfair later recalled that \"the mind seemed to grow giddy by looking so far into the abyss of time\", and Hutton concluded a 1788 paper he presented at the Royal Society of Edinburgh, later rewritten as a book, with the phrase \"we find no vestige of a beginning, no prospect of an end\".\n\nBoth Playfair and Hall wrote their own books on the theory, and for decades robust debate continued between Hutton's supporters and the Neptunists. Georges Cuvier's paleontological work in the 1790s, which established the reality of extinction, explained this by local catastrophes, after which other fixed species repopulated the affected areas. In Britain, geologists adapted this idea into \"diluvial theory\" which proposed repeated worldwide annihilation and creation of new fixed species adapted to a changed environment, initially identifying the most recent catastrophe as the biblical flood.\n\nFrom 1830 to 1833 Charles Lyell's multi-volume \"Principles of Geology\" was published. The work's subtitle was \"An attempt to explain the former changes of the Earth's surface by reference to causes now in operation\". He drew his explanations from field studies conducted directly before he went to work on the founding geology text, and developed Hutton's idea that the earth was shaped entirely by slow-moving forces still in operation today, acting over a very long period of time. The terms \"uniformitarianism\" for this idea, and \"catastrophism\" for the opposing viewpoint, were coined by William Whewell in a review of Lyell's book. \"Principles of Geology\" was the most influential geological work in the middle of the 19th century.\n\nGeoscientists support diverse systems of Earth history, the nature of which rest on a certain mixture of views about process, control, rate, and state which are preferred. Because geologists and geomorphologists tend to adopt opposite views over process, rate and state in the inorganic world, there are eight different systems of beliefs in the development of the terrestrial sphere. All geoscientists stand by the principle of uniformity of law. Most, but not all, are directed by the principle of simplicity. All make definite assertions about the quality of rate and state in the inorganic realm.\n\nAccording to Reijer Hooykaas (1963), Lyell's uniformitarianism is a family of four related propositions, not a single idea:\n\nNone of these connotations requires another, and they are not all equally inferred by uniformitarians.\n\nGould explained Lyell's propositions in \"Time's Arrow, Time's Cycle\" (1987), stating that Lyell conflated two different types of propositions: a pair of methodological assumptions with a pair of substantive hypotheses. The four together make up Lyell's uniformitarianism.\n\nThe two methodological assumptions below are accepted to be true by the majority of scientists and geologists. Gould claims that these philosophical propositions must be assumed before you can proceed as a scientist doing science. \"You cannot go to a rocky outcrop and observe either the constancy of nature's laws or the working of unknown processes. It works the other way around.\" You first assume these propositions and \"then you go to the outcrop.\"\n\nThe substantive hypotheses were controversial and, in some cases, accepted by few. These hypotheses are judged true or false on empirical grounds through scientific observation and repeated experimental data. This is in contrast with the previous two philosophical assumptions that come before one can do science and so cannot be tested or falsified by science.\n\nStephen Jay Gould's first scientific paper, \"Is uniformitarianism necessary?\" (1965), reduced these four assumptions to two. He dismissed the first principle, which asserted spatial and temporal invariance of natural laws, as no longer an issue of debate. He rejected the third (uniformity of rate) as an unjustified limitation on scientific inquiry, as it constrains past geologic rates and conditions to those of the present. So, Lyellian uniformitarianism was unnecessary.\n\nUniformitarianism was proposed in contrast to catastrophism, which states that the distant past \"consisted of epochs of paroxysmal and catastrophic action interposed between periods of comparative tranquility\" Especially in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, most geologists took this interpretation to mean that catastrophic events are not important in geologic time; one example of this is the debate of the formation of the Channeled Scablands due to the catastrophic Missoula glacial outburst floods. An important result of this debate and others was the re-clarification that, while the same principles operate in geologic time, catastrophic events that are infrequent on human time-scales can have important consequences in geologic history.\nDerek Ager has noted that \"geologists do not deny uniformitarianism in its true sense, that is to say, of interpreting the past by means of the processes that are seen going on at the present day, so long as we remember that the periodic catastrophe is one of those processes. Those periodic catastrophes make more showing in the stratigraphical record than we have hitherto assumed.\"\n\nEven Charles Lyell thought that ordinary geological processes would cause Niagara Falls to move upstream to Lake Erie within 10,000 years, leading to catastrophic flooding of a large part of North America.\n\nModern geologists do not apply uniformitarianism in the same way as Lyell. They question if rates of processes were uniform through time and only those values measured during the history of geology are to be accepted. The present may not be a long enough key to penetrate the deep lock of the past. Geologic processes may have been active at different rates in the past that humans have not observed. \"By force of popularity, uniformity of rate has persisted to our present day. For more than a century, Lyell's rhetoric conflating axiom with hypotheses has descended in unmodified form. Many geologists have been stifled by the belief that proper methodology includes an a priori commitment to gradual change, and by a preference for explaining large-scale phenomena as the concatenation of innumerable tiny changes.\"\n\nThe current consensus is that Earth's history is a slow, gradual process punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events that have affected Earth and its inhabitants. In practice it is reduced from Lyell's conflation, or blending, to simply the two philosophical assumptions. This is also known as the principle of geological actualism, which states that all past geological action was like all present geological action. The principle of actualism is the cornerstone of paleoecology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24054765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24054765", "title": "Vladimir Lysenko", "text": "Vladimir Lysenko\n\nVladimir Ivanovich Lysenko (Russian: Владимир Лысенко; born 1 January 1955) is a Russian academic and world traveller. He set several Guinness World Records related to high-altitude river rafting.\n\nLysenko was born in Kharkov, USSR on 1 January 1955. He had graduated from the Kharkov Aviation University (aircraft construction faculty) with honors and the postgraduate course of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (in the specialty \"mechanics of fluid, gas and plasma\").\n\nLysenko holds a Doctorate of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in fluid mechanics. He is a leading fellow at the Institute of Mechanics of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Novosibirsk.\nHe authored the book \"Stability and Transition of High-Speed Boundary Layers and Wakes\", as well as over 200 scientific papers.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1992, Lysenko became the first man to raft on rivers flowing down all of the world's eight-thousanders—the 14 mountains with peaks higher than above sea level.\n\nIn 1996, Lysenko became the first man to raft down the highest peak of every continent (except the Antarctic), as well as the highest peak of Oceania.\n\nWhile rafting down Mount Everest in Nepal in April and May 1991, Lysenko set the Guinness World Record for the greatest altitude difference travelled in a rafting trip: a descent of from Dughla on the Khumbu Glacier ( above sea level) to Chatara ( above sea level). In September 1996, he set the Guinness World Record for high-altitude rafting with a start on the Eastern Rong Chu River on Mount Everest; the previous record of had been set in September 1976 by the Mike-Jones team of England.\n\nVladimir rafted also on mountain sources of Amazon River and the Nile, kayaked on Yukon River. He rafted in 63 countries (including Nepal, China, Pakistan, India, Afghanistan, etc.).\nBetween September 1997 and 2002, Lysenko crossed 62 countries by car. He crossed each continent (other than Antarctica) twice, traveling between the most distant points of each continent in both latitude and longitude. He crossed the Americas from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska to Tierra del Fuego in Argentina; from Punta Pariñas, Peru to Cape Cabo Branko, Brazil; and from Anchor Bay, Alaska to St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. His routes across Africa took him from Cape Agulhas, South Africa to Ras-Angela Cape, Tunisia; and from Somali to Dakar. Crossing Europe and Asia, he travelled from Cabo da Roca, Portugal to Galimiy and Magadan in Russia; and from Tanjung Piai in Peninsular Malaysia to North Cape, Norway. Australia was crossed from Cape Byron to Steep Point and from Cape York Peninsula to South Point. These travels totaled . For the trip departing from Anchorage, the limited finances of Lysenko's team lead them to buy a used Volvo 240 with on the odometer for .\n\nThe start was in Vladivostok, Russia in 2006. Lysenko has ridden on a bicycle. He has cycled via 29 countries - Russia, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Slovakia, Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Italy, France, Spain, Morocco (and Western Sahara), São Tomé and Príncipe, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Belize, Mexico, the United States, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Australia, Indonesia, North Korea. \nIn 2003, Lysenko duplicated the path of the Klondike Gold Rush of 1897–1898, travelling by foot and kayak.\nLysenko had circumnavigated the globe from west to east, straying no more than two degrees of latitude from the Equator. Starting in Libreville (Gabon), Vladimir had successfully crossed (in a car, a motor boat, a yacht, a ship, a kayak, a bicycle, and by foot) Africa (from Libreville (Gabon) to Kiunga (Kenya) through Gabon, Republic of Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda and Kenya), Indian Ocean, Indonesia (from Padang to Biak), Pacific Ocean, South America (from Pedernales (Ecuador) to Macapa (Brazil) through Ecuador, Colombia and Brazil) and Atlantic Ocean with finish in Libreville in 2012.\nIn his project titled \"From Earth's bowels to stratosphere\", Lysenko descended (in 2004) to the bottom of the world's deepest mine, the Mponeng Gold Mine in Carletonville, South Africa, a depth of below ground. Then he had traveled in a car from Carletonville to Moscow, passing through South Africa, Namibia, Angola, the Congo, Zaire, Kenya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, Turkey, Azerbaijan, and Russia. And then Lysenko made a series of lifting by various planes to the stratosphere (to the height of 11-16,5 km). Difference of altitudes on this route (from the mine bottom to the stratosphere) was 3.5 + 16.5 = , and difference of temperatures 58°+ |-56°| = 114°С.\n\nLysenko is the President of Union of Russian Around-the-World Travelers, and the Chairman of Himalayan Club of Russian Rafters & Kayakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8837306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837306", "title": "World Energy Outlook", "text": "World Energy Outlook\n\nThe annual World Energy Outlook is the International Energy Agency's flagship publication, widely recognised as the most authoritative source for global energy projections and analysis. It represents the leading source for medium to long-term energy market projections, extensive statistics, analysis and advice for both governments and the energy business. It is produced by the Office of the Chief Economist, presently under the direction of Dr. Fatih Birol.\n\nUsing a Reference Scenario based on no change in current policies, it enables policy-makers to evaluate their current path. The WEO has also developed an alternative scenario that puts the global energy systems on a trajectory to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions in line with limiting the increase in temperature to 2°C.\n\nIn even-numbered years, WEO presents detailed projections of energy demand, production, trade and investment, fuel by fuel and region by region. The report also regularly puts a spotlight on topical issues:\n\nThe 2005 edition presents a detailed assessment of energy prospects throughout the Middle East and North Africa region and the implications of these for world energy markets;\nThe 2007 report presents a special focus on China and India and analyses the impact of rising energy use in these countries on the international energy markets and energy-related greenhouse gas emissions;\nThe 2008 edition focuses on two pressing issues such as prospects for oil and gas production and the post-2012 climate scenarios;\nThe 2009 edition presents in-depth analysis of three special topics: Financing energy investment under a post-2012 climate framework; prospects for global natural gas markets and energy trends in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe 2010 WEO edition, released on 9 November 2010, presented for the first time in its history a scenario that takes account of the recent commitments that governments have made to tackle climate change and worsening energy insecurity. It also puts the spotlight on several topical issues, including the outlook for renewable energy technologies and unconventional oil, the implications of climate policies, Caspian energy prospects, energy poverty and energy subsidies.\n\nThe 2011 report was issued on 9 November 2011. The executive summary noted that there were \"few signs that the urgently needed change in direction in global energy trends is underway.\" Richard G. Newell, associate professor of energy and environmental economics at Duke University notes: \"Even as mature economies moderate oil demand through efficiency and biofuels, emerging economies' oil demand for transport grows by almost 50 percent. The bottom line is, like it or not, we should be prepared for price swings at the pump for some time to come.\"\n\nFatih Birol, Chief Economist of the International Energy Agency (IEA) designed and directed the study which was prepared by the IEA's Directorate of Global Energy Economics of the International Energy Agency and other offices of the Agency. \n\nBased on the New Policies Scenario, the central model used by the OECD's International Energy Agency, in Part A entitled \"Global energy demands\", on the emerging global energy landscape, over the period to 2035, global energy demand would increase by more one-third with China, India and the Middle East accounting for 60 percent of that increase.\n\nPart B \n\nIn Part C of the study \n\nThe WEO received numerous awards from governments and energy industry for its analytical excellence.\n\n\n"}
