{"id": "1841309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841309", "title": "10/90 gap", "text": "10/90 gap\n\nThe 10/90 gap is the term adopted by the Global Forum for Health Research to highlight the finding by the Commission on Health Research for Development in 1990, that less than 10% of worldwide resources devoted to health research were put towards health in Developing Countries, where over 90% of all preventable deaths worldwide occurred. Every year, the spread of disease suffered in both rich and poor countries converges. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the most prevalent diseases consist of cardiovascular disease, cancer and diabetes. These diseases now account for 45% of the global health burden and is the culprit for up to 85% of deaths in low-income countries. The 10/90 Gap focuses on joining organisations together to reduce these statistics.\n\nA substantial portion of diseases, most prevalent in impoverished or developing countries, are those which are preventable and/or treatable. The World Health Organization (2004) stated in their world health report that an estimated eight million individuals die prematurely, from diseases and conditions that can be cured, every year. These deaths contribute to approximately one third of all human deaths in the world, each year. Table 1 lists several of these curable diseases.\n\nTable 1: Causes of avoidable deaths.\n\nGlobal health organisations across the globe have explicitly made research into health their priority. In 2000, World Health Organization established the Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, who in their 2001 report, verified the relationship between poverty and disease and discussed the benefit of investment on the economic climates of developing countries. Possible strategies that can be implanted to help reduce the 10/90 gap are, policies prioritizing funding for health research, also developing capacities of credible public and private health research institutions. Also activities of international NGOs to undertake research aimed at resolving the gap, and the setting up of research based mechanisms to ensure access to new effective products for the treatment and prevention of poverty-related diseases. However, given the number of diseases that are preventable, other factors that are blocking the access of patients to these products, such as cost of treatments to the individual, also need to be addressed, rather that just focusing on developing new drugs. There is also a need to build the primary health care sector in developing countries. It has been shown that early detection and effective management of disease can be provided by appropriately-trained, non-physician, healthcare workers.\n\nThe gap between financial needs and financial means in low income countries can only be filled by donations. The average health expenditure per capita in western countries is estimated at $947 compared to $20 per capita in low income countries. To assist the worlds poorest, health expenditure between $44–60 per capita is placed as a target. This target is achieved by the contribution of 0.1% of advanced western countries gross national production (GNP) to fund global health, this recommendation was set by the WHO in 2001 and is estimated to save 8 million lives per year.\n\nAmong other efforts to address this issue are recent proposals for a Global Research and Development (R&D) treaty, and the creation of the nonprofit pharmaceutical company OneWorld Health which develops new and affordable medicines for neglected diseases. A treaty creates a system that allows health research to come from contributions by all and therefore the sharing of benefits for all, improving the fairness and sustainability of global research and development. In a positive development for the closing of the gap, in the 2012 London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases many parties, including governments, funding organisations and drug companies, agreed to work towards the eradication of neglected tropical diseases.\n\nDespite the findings of the World Health Organization, and the disparity of curable diseases throughout developing and developed countries, some people believe the 10/90 gap is a myth. They criticise the fact that simple medicines which stop curable and treatable conditions such as diarrhoea and malaria are available to these countries. The issue is not with the medicine, but with the ability for the affected to access it. Access to medicine can be inhibited by many circumstances such as poverty, strict government regime and inadequate healthcare systems and infrastructure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20860240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20860240", "title": "2007 Oregon Ballot Measure 50", "text": "2007 Oregon Ballot Measure 50\n\nBallot Measure 50 was a legislatively referred state statute ballot measure for the November 6, 2007 special election ballot in the state of Oregon. This measure would have increased the tobacco tax and dedicated the new revenue to providing health care for children, low-income adults and other medically underserved Oregonians, and to fund tobacco prevention and education programs. The proposal would have increased the tax on cigarettes by 84.5 cents per pack, and increased the tax on other tobacco products.\n\nThe purpose of the fund would have been to finance the Healthy Kids Program created by the 2007 legislature to provide affordable health care for uninsured children. The measure would have funded tobacco prevention programs, safety net clinics, rural health care and health care for Oregon’s lowest income families and individuals through the Oregon Health Plan. The campaigns for and against the measure spent the most money ever on a ballot measure election in the state's history. Because the measure did not pass, these health care programs were not expanded, and the Healthy Kids Program did not become law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34623704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34623704", "title": "2012 Guangxi cadmium spill", "text": "2012 Guangxi cadmium spill\n\nThe 2012 Guangxi cadmium spill (广西镉污染事件) occurred in early January when toxic cadmium contaminated the Guangxi Longjiang river (龙江河) and water supply.\n\nHechi authorities estimated that more than 40,000 kilograms of fish were found dead from January 15 to February 2 within the city limits. The spill was caused by Jinhe Mining company (沿河兩岸工廠). The spill is estimated to be 80 times the official limit, according to regional government protection official Feng Zhennian\n\nA toxic slick stretching more than 100km along the Longjiang river reached the Nuomitan hydroelectric station, 57 km upstream from Liuzhou, with cadmium levels five times above the national standard. In one month 20 tonnes of toxic cadmium metals were spilled into the river.\n\nThe government stopped supply of tap water to Liuzhou city, affecting 3.7 million residents. Seven company executives deemed responsible for the contamination were detained. Seven government officials were fired, including two punished for the spill. According to local government officials from the Xinhua News Agency, the pollution is under control after two weeks of cleanup. Shortly after the spill, residents of the city of Liuzhou emptied supermarkets of bottled water out of fear of contamination. Many scientists working on purification decided to return to the river, despite being hospitalized for contamination.\n\nMore than 60% of cadmium content in the Longjiang River in Hechi, previously reported as five times higher than the restricted level, has been diluted and absorbed, according to experts. Guangdong, Macau and Hong Kong are said to be unaffected. Chinese environmentalists are calling for a cadmium pollution fund to be set up to compensate for the long-term impact of the spill, according to state-run newspaper \"China Daily\". \"These kinds of disasters make it obvious that this is the time to change, to push for more transparency,\" says Ma Jun, a well-respected Chinese green activist and director of the Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "51424975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51424975", "title": "2016 Southeast Asian haze", "text": "2016 Southeast Asian haze\n\nThe 2016 Southeast Asian haze is an air pollution crisis affecting several countries in Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.\n\nThe haze is caused by Indonesian agricultural fires in Sumatra and Kalimantan. The fires are attributed to illegal slash-and-burn practices by companies and individual farmers, which remove vegetation to make way for plantations of palm oil, pulp and paper.\n\nOn 17 August, 365 hot spots were detected on Indonesia's Sumatra island, with 278 in the province of Riau. On 18 August, 158 hot spots were detected in the province of West Kalimantan. By 26 August, six Indonesian provinces had declared a state of emergency due to the fires: Central Kalimantan, Jambi, Riau, South Kalimantan, South Sumatra and West Kalimantan. Indonesia has reported arresting around 450 people in 2016 for their connections with the fires. \n\nOn 17 August 2016, Malaysia's Air Pollutant Index first surpassed the 'unhealthy' level of 100 for the region's dry season. On 24 August, Malaysia offered to dispatch two Bombardier 415 fire-fighting aircraft if Indonesia would officially request help to tackle the fires.\n\nIn June 2016, Singapore offered Indonesia a Lockheed C-130 Hercules aircraft for cloud seeding, as well as a Singapore Civil Defence Force fire-fighting team, and assistance in providing satellite pictures and determining the coordinates of fires. On 26 August 2016, Singapore's 24-hour Pollutant Standards Index (PSI) entered the 'unhealthy' range of above 100, while its 3-hour PSI reached 215.\n"}
{"id": "28140118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28140118", "title": "Aldeadávila Dam", "text": "Aldeadávila Dam\n\nAldeadávila Dam is a concrete arch-gravity dam on the Douro River (also known as the Duero River) on the border between Spain and Portugal. The Douro River forms the international boundary between Portugal and Spain. The nearest Spanish town is Aldeadávila de la Ribera in the Province of Salamanca, about to the east. The nearest Portuguese town is Fornos in Bragança District, about to the southwest. The Portuguese side of the river around the dam site lies within the International Douro Natural Park.\n\nIn 1864, Portugal and Spain signed the \"Treaty of Limits\" (ratified in 1866), which established the present international boundaries of the two nations. A treaty on transboundary rivers, clarifying issues regarding the use of such rivers, was signed and affirmed in 1912.\n\nA treaty regulating the development of hydroelectric facilities on the Douro River was signed in 1927. The Aldeadávila Dam was built by Spain pursuant to these treaties, and was the final dam to be built by Spain on the section of river allotted to that country.\n\nThe dam is high and its cost was estimated in 1962 at US$60,000,000 (about $443.5 million in 2010 inflated-adjusted dollars). It was one of a series of very high dams built in Europe in the two decades after World War II; these were designed with a downstream face inclined toward the upstream flow. This simplified the dam's design and construction (although it required more concrete to build), and more readily incorporated the spillways into the dam face. The dam's face is nearly vertical. Design work on the dam began in 1956, and construction completed in 1963. The structure was built by the Iberdrola Ingeniería y Construcción construction firm. Pedro Martínez Artola was the design engineer. The dam was built on high-quality granite rock. During construction, grouting was used to fill cracks in the rock which ran parallel to the dam's foundation, and on the Portuguese bank where two fractures in the rock occurred.\n\nThe underground power station and tunnels were excavated using a mining procedure known as large-chamber stoping. The use of this technique for the Aldeadávila Dam is considered a textbook example. The turbine and generator hall, and the transformer hall were both cut from solid granite as well. The turbine and generator room is long, wide, and deep. The total volume of excavated material for all halls, rooms, and abutments was .\n\nThe structure has eight overflow gates which channel water into four spillways. The spillways incorporate side piers on the upstream face to more correctly channel water over the dam so that each spillway discharges the same amount of water. The spillways release their water slightly above the actual bed of the river, creating a waterfall effect when they are fully open. A spillway tunnel carved from granite in the right bank of the river augments the spillways and provides for additional overflow. The total spillway capacity is half that of Grand Coulee Dam in the United States. The Export-Import Bank of the United States provided $8.9 million (about $67.2 million in 2010 inflation-adjusted dollars) in credits in 1958 to Iberduero to enable it to purchase six 120 Megawatt (MW) turbines and other electrical equipment for the power generating station, all of which were supplied by American firms.\n\nThe dam won Spain an international reputation as a builder of very large dams. The dam's eye-catching, \"ski jump\" style spillways are its most noted feature, and have been called \"outstanding\" by leading dam engineers.\n\nThe canyon through which the Douro River flows is exceptionally deep and narrow, resulting in a reservoir that has a relatively small surface area for its immense size. In some ways, this limits use of the reservoir for recreational activities. However, the Aldeadávila Dam reservoir is a popular one for boating.\n\nUntil the Alcántara Dam, also in Spain, was built in 1969, the Aldeadávila Dam was the largest hydroelectric power plant in Europe. As of 2018, and after some upgrades, it remains the largest in Spain, with a total output generating power of . The dam's original Aldeadávila I Power Station houses six Francis turbines for a total generating output of . In 1986, the Aldeadávila II Power Station extension was completed, adding two Francis pump-turbines, boosting generating capacity by .\n\nDuring periods when the demand for electricity is low (such as evenings, weekends, or during seasonal fluctuations), the dam's two pumped-storage generators can use its excess power-generating capacity to pump water back into the reservoir—enhancing reservoir capacity and storing water for periods when the demand for electricity is high. At the time it was constructed, the Aldeadávila Dam had the largest pumping station capacity in Europe.\n\nThe dam has two diversion tunnels, each in length. Each tunnel has a high surge tank. The dam also contains more than of tunnels which divert water to the electrical generation turbines. There are six penstock tunnels, each about in diameter. The design of the penstocks and auxiliary spillways using these tunnels has proved to be an issue, however. Cavitation problems have damaged these tunnels in the past.\n\nA 30-minute documentary about the dam, \"La presa de Aldeadávila\", was produced by Iberduero (the power company that built the dam) in 1963. Several scenes in the 1965 David Lean film \"Doctor Zhivago\" were filmed at the Aldeadávila Dam. The dam's famous spillways were opened for the filming, and are shown in the motion picture open at full force. Another scene depicts workers walking into one of the dam's enormous tunnels. The final scenes of Antonio Mercero's 1972 film, \"La cabina\" (\"The Telephone Box\") were also filmed inside the dam.\n\n"}
{"id": "52433006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52433006", "title": "Alexander Peddie", "text": "Alexander Peddie\n\nAlexander Peddie FRSE FRCPE LLD (1810-1907) was a Scottish physician and author. He served as President of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh from 1877 to 1879 and was co-founder of Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.\n\nAlexander Peddie was born on 3 June 1810. He was the son of Rev James Peddie, an Edinburgh minister on Bristo Street in the Old Town.\n\nHe received his early education at the Edinburgh High School. He studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, at the encouragement of Dr John Abercrombie. He undertook postgraduate studies in Paris. At the suggestion of Abercrombie, Peddie became an apprentice to James Syme, a rising surgeon. Syme had established a public surgical hospital in Minto House where he also carried out limited classes for clinical instruction and a large class for systematic surgery. Peddie was one of these early apprentices. There he was associated with Dr John Brown who became his lifelong friend.\n\nIn 1835, Peddie obtained the Licence of the Royal College of Surgeons and his MD from the University of Edinburgh. Peddie then travelled around Europe, spending time in Paris where he studied some special departments of medicine. On his return from postgraduate study in Paris he introduced the stethoscope to Edinburgh.\n\nWhen Syme was given the Clinical Chair of Surgery in Edinburgh, Peddie became Superintendent of Minto House which was largely used for the medical care of the sick poor. At the same time he developed an extensive private practice in the city.\n\nIn 1845, Peddie was the first to recognise the contagious nature of puerperal fever and its intimate connection with erysipelas and phlebitic inflammation. He was one of the originators of the Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh and gave two papers on Diseases of Infancy and Childhood in which he stressed the need for such an institution. That he was a pioneer in preventive medicine is evidenced by a series of ten lectures which he gave in Edinburgh and surrounding towns on Violation of Laws of Health illustrated with diagrams by Sir Noel Paton.\n\nIn 1863 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Peddie became Fellow of the RCPE in 1845 and was elected president in 1877.\n\nHe died at home, 15 Rutland Street in Edinburgh's West End, on 19 January 1907. He is buried with his parents in Warriston Cemetery in northern Edinburgh. His monument is a small granite stone behind the large Peddie monument (on its north side). His nephew, the architect John Dick Peddie, lies adjacent.\n"}
{"id": "6256090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6256090", "title": "Anisodus", "text": "Anisodus\n\nAnisodus is a genus of flowering plant in the family Solanaceae.\n\nIt is native to China, Tibet, India, Bhutan, and Nepal.\n\nOne species, \"A. tanguticus\" (), is one of the 50 fundamental herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30624019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30624019", "title": "Assessment day", "text": "Assessment day\n\nAn assessment day is usually used in the context of recruitment. On this day, a group of applicants who have applied for a particular role are invited to an assessment centre, where a combination of selection techniques are used by the employers to measure suitability of an individual for the job role.These selection technique usually include exercises such as presentation, group exercise, one to one Interview, role play, psychometric test etc. Most large organisations like Banks, Audit and IT firms use assessment days to recruit the fresh talent in their graduate programmes. With an increase of popularity of assessment days, several training institutes have been formed that prepare candidates for assessment days, for example, Green Turn is a famous institute that prepare candidates for assessment days of big 4 accountancy firms.\n\nThere are several examples throughout history, but the term \"Assessment\" for recruiting employees was firstly used in World War II by German Army in early 1930s. They used this process to select military officers. The tasks involved certain tests and officers were rated on how well they performed and chosen for selection and promotion accordingly. Dr Simoneit, a German psychologist led the foundation of what became known as 'An Assessment' in German Army. The idea of starting this process was to get a better understanding of why certain officers did not act in the way they had said they would if they were selected or promoted.\n\nFurther psychological and scientific methods were added to his original work later on by British Government. They recognised the importance of having an assessment day and a War Office Selection was created using its own testing methods. Examples include the Admiralty Interview Board of the Royal Navy and the Board of the British Army.\n\nAT&T created a building for recruiting staff in the 1950s. This was called The Assessment Centre and this was influential on subsequent personnel methods in other businesses.\n\nThe purpose of having an assessment day is that, the organisation wants to see how candidates actually behave when they will be put in real work life situations, for example performing an exercise with a group of people under timed conditions.These behaviours will then get compared to the key behavioural criteria which have been specified for that job role. Although the original assessment days were focused on military duties and their specific exercises are unlikely to be used in a commercial or public environment, but it is still important to know that these exercises have been designed to judge the behaviour of an individual in performing a task.\nAnother reason of employers having an assessment day is that, assessment days have a proven track record of finding the most suitable candidates for the job. They are usually attended by a group of candidates normally between 5 and 15 all of whom are being assessed. They are usually held for a full working day and it is important to remember that the assessment day is just a way of finding candidates suitability for the role. One Candidate is not in competition with the other candidates on the assessment day. If every candidate shows the right qualities and competencies the employer is looking for they will hire all of them. If none of the candidates meet the necessary standard, the employer will hire none of them.\n\nAssessment day is usually organised by the human resource department of the organisation. There might be other managers of the company in the assessors panel to provide technical input. Larger organisations sometimes also hire or invites their occupational psychologists on the panel to provide professional reviews on the candidate's behaviour. Occasionally, if an assessment day involves role play exercises, some companies bring professional actors to play that part to assess the behaviour of candidates. For example, to play a role of a dissatisfied client. The idea behind this is to create a real life scenario. Some candidates often prefer this idea and find it easier to behave in the way as they would do in real life. Ultimately, the purpose of employers having an assessment day is to measure that how well candidates will deal with a situation that they might encounter in the job.\n\nAssessment Day involves a list of exercises sometimes tailored to the job role individuals have applied for. Candidates on an assessment day are assessed against a list of competencies: KSA's – Knowledge, Skills and Attitudes. On each competency a score is given and this is assessed through a number of activities as explained below:\n\nThe purpose of Group exercise is to test the interpersonal and teamwork skills of an individual and usually involve activities such has debating, discussing ideas and solving a challenging problem. The idea behind these activities is to judge whether the candidate will overpower the group or fade in the background when they have to work with people with different skills set. It is important that candidates remember that they are not necessarily competing with the others in the group but everybody is performing against the company standard.\n\nThe results of this exercise illustrate candidate's organizational and prioritizing skills. The test gives the candidates an everyday example of multiple tasks which needs to be assessed and prioritized. This tests time perception and management and gives the assessors an insight into how the candidate will react in a real world situation. Most in-tray exercises are designed according to the job specification and they test a set of key competencies based on the values of the organization. For example, they focus on the delegation, independence and managing skills. It is vital that candidates think about the job role and competencies that employer is looking for when answering the questions. \n\nThese tests are used to measure how people differ in their motivation, values, priorities and opinions. They are helpful for employers in analysing the more hidden traits of individuals and give them indication of their preferred working style. They also give an idea to assessors of candidate's current abilities. They can be quite difficult as normally they are performed under timed conditions, therefore it is advisable for candidates to practice before their assessment day. There are many different types of psychometric test but the commonly used by the employers are numerical reasoning test and verbal reasoning test.\n\nA role play is designed according to the job role, its a fictional scenario, for example, candidates may have to face an angry customer if they have applies for a sales manager role, where one of the assessor will play the part of the angry customer. In this way assessors will challenge the candidates with different cross-questions and reasons behind the answers. Some companies even hire professional actors for role play exercise so the situation will be more close to real life and also they can assess the candidate accurately.\n\nPresentation on an assessment day usually tests a candidates ability of how confident he is in presenting ideas in front of a group of people. Some organizations give the topic of presentation in advance that candidates have to prepare, others give the topic on the assessment day and give candidates some time to prepare for it. This demonstrates their capabilities of presenting their finding and analyzing information under timed condition.\n\nThis is usually the last stage of assessment day, If candidates have completed all other tasks, this is an ideal opportunity for individuals to ask questions from hiring managers and showcase them their talent and impress them with the research that they have done about the company and its products and services. This is one of the most important aspect of an assessment day as assessors get to know a candidate individually and it has a great impact on the selection process.\n\nAssessors on the assessment day only give credit for the knowledge skills and attitudes (KSA's) candidates exhibit during these exercises. They do not normally test the technical knowledge of job role. The final decision of whether to select or reject a candidate mostly depends on the competencies shown in the above activities.\n\nAssessment Days are eminently fair and objective. They allow a broader range of selection methods to be used so therefore they are more accurate than a standard recruitment process. The tests which are used on assessment day gives an insight knowledge of applicant's psychological and social behaviour. The results from these tests, combined with other conventional sources of information plays an important role in selecting the most qualified candidate and also enables organizations in eliminating unsuitable candidates - helping the organizations to ensure that they put right people in right roles.\n\nAssessment Days test the psychological behaviour of the person as what they can do, not what they know. It tests their ability to apply formal education in a real world situation. A person may have a first class degree but he may not be able to make critical decisions under pressure or lack skills to delegate work to his team.\n\nExercises and Activities involve at an assessment day are highly adaptable for all types of job roles and for all sorts of organizations. For example, can be designed for recruiting community service officers, sales assistants, detectives, IT Consultants, Audit Managers and jailers as well as police officers. Moreover, the cost associated with assessment day is usually lower as compared to the cost involve in many other recruitment processes. Because exercises involve on an assessment day are cost and time friendly and can be tailored to the budget of the organisation.\n\nAssessment Days can also play an important role for candidates in terms of providing them with feedback about their strengths and weaknesses, which allows them to improve their skills and abilities for future roles. Assessment Days are also an ideal opportunity for candidates to understand the organisation and job role more closely and help them in making decision whether this is the right job role for them.\n\nAssessment Days can be difficult to manage and there is always an uncertainty of things going wrong on the day. There can be system failure or may be other IT problems that can cause problems in performing various activities, for example, aptitude tests and psychometric tests can not be performed because of an immediate IT failure. Role players may fail to turn up or badly play their roles and therefore assessors may not be able to mark the exercise properly.\n\nFurthermore, with an increase in technology people who have been to an assessment day of a company write about their experiences and nature of exercises involved on social websites and student forums which in result give all the answers to future candidates and they prepare themselves in advance which is sometimes not fair for selection process.\n\nSometimes, candidates complain that they feel uncomfortable on an assessment day as they are just \"role playing\" and assessors don't get to know \"the real me\". Others complain that the time spent with an assessors is too limited for them to make a right decision. Some also argue that exercises that are used for assessment days are too ambiguous and not close to job specification. Moreover, sometimes its hard for an organization to gather all their assessors and managers on the same day as the assessment process is very time consuming as it can lasts from 4 to 7 hours.\n\nApplicants should follow the following strategies to succeed an assessment day:\n"}
{"id": "17873625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17873625", "title": "Assistant medical officer", "text": "Assistant medical officer\n\nAssistant medical officers are health care providers in countries like Tanzania and Malaysia. They work independently or with limited supervision of a physician to provide healthcare services to largely underserved populations.\n\nThey are also called \"surgical technologists\" (or \"técnico de cirurgia\") in Mozambique, clinical associates in South Africa, or \"assistant medical practitioner\" (AMP, formerly \"native medical practitioner\" or NMP) in Fiji. They are grouped under \"medical assistant practitioners\" in the International Standard Classification of Occupations, 2008 revision. Assistant Medical Officer will be celebrated for the day of medical assistant on 10 March every year in all countries. \n\nQualified clinical officers with working experience of more than three years and who pass a government entrance examination undergo a further two-year training program to become Assistant Medical Officers. They can then enroll in another two-year program to specialise in anaesthesia, paediatrics, radiology or surgery.\n\nThe Assistant Medical Officers program, which combines theory and clinical training, is offered at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre and Ifakara Training Centre for International Health. Assistant medical officers training centers in Mbeya (located near Mbeya referral Hospital), Tanga (located near Bombo Regional referral Hospital) and Bugando-Mwanza(located near Bugando referral Hospital), Lugalo Military school in Dar es Salaam, and a new school opened in Arusha -Selian medical center.\n\nAssistant Medical Officers perform routine and emergency surgery including 80 percent of Caesarean sections done in Tanzania.\n\nAssistant Medical Officers complete a three and half year diploma in medical assistant undergraduate program recognized by the Malaysian Qualifications Agency. The students study the human body; how the systems, e.g. cardiovascular and respiratory systems, medical and surgical study, pharmacology, work in normal and diseased states and how they relate to medicine. They also learn pre-hospital care, community health, disaster management, orthopedics, obstetrics and gynecology and surgery. The final year of training involves clinical placement in hospitals and health clinics.\n\nGovernment colleges that offer the Diploma in Medical Assistant program are:\nThese are under the health ministry's training department. Private colleges include:\nGraduates register with the Medical Assistant Council (\"Lembaga Pembantu Perubatan\") before being appointed into service.\n\nAssistant medical officers diagnose and treat common ailments, order and interpret tests, counsel on preventive health care, assist in surgery, manage medical/surgical emergencies, manage medical/surgical ward, manage obstetrics & gynecology and write prescriptions.\n\nThey often work in places with no medical officers.\n\nDMF degree holders are appointed as a sub assistant community medical officer at health and family planning sectors in Bangladesh. They were formerly known as medical assistant. The medical assistant profession was started in 1979 to staff the rural health centers, as well as the Union and Family Welfare Centers. These providers were seen as the primary care providers in the communities alongside other health workers.\n\nmedical assistants (now to be designated as sub-assistant community medical officer) are produced by Medical Assistant Training Schools through a three-year academic course comprising theoretical and practical classes. There is also a compulsory internship of 12 month after successful completion of academic course. After completion of this course DMF degree holders are registered by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental council of Bangladesh\n\nCurrently, there are 8 Medical Assistant Training Schools in the government sector and 200 in the private sector (total 208). Total annual productions capacity is 13,540, of whom 716 are produced by the government and 12,824 by the private training schools.\n\nList of government MATS in Bangladesh\n\nMedical Assistant Training School, Comilla.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Noakhali.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Faridpur.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Tangail.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Bagerhat.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Kushtia.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Jhenaidah.\nMedical Assistant Training School, Sirajganj.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38170871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38170871", "title": "Babinden", "text": "Babinden\n\nBabinden (, the \"Day of the baba\" or the D\"ay of the midwife\") is a traditional Bulgarian feast, celebrated on 8 January (21 January according to the Gregorian calendar), in honour of the women practicing midwifery. The traditional word for midwife in Bulgarian is \"baba\", same as grandmother. The holiday has pagan origins and is part of the traditional family rituals.\n\nOn Babinden, all children born in the previous year and their mothers gather at the house of the midwife to perform the following rituals:\n\nMen may not participate in the rituals.\n\nThe \"baba\" holds a particularly exalted place in the traditional family life. She is universally honoured and loved for her skills in bringing about new life.\n\nJust before sunrise the mothers of children under the age of three go to the common well to draw fresh water. In it they dip a sprig of basil or geranium. Then they take a bar of soap and a new towel and make way to the house of the midwife.\nThe bathing ritual is performed outdoors - under a fruit tree in the garden, on the wood chopping block or on the front stairs of the house. (Traditional Bulgarian houses have their bottom floor half dug in the ground, under the street level; thus the main housing level is slightly elevated with a stone staircase leading to the front door of the house.) Every woman hands the midwife the soap, pours some water to wash her and then presents her with the new towel. The midwife, however, wipes her hands dry with the skirts of woman - to be fertile and to have easy deliveries. The midwife then presents the woman with a bunch of geraniums tied with red and white threads. While washing, the midwife may splash the water up in the air, jump three times and say \"So may jump the kids and become white and red [eg healthy clear skin with rosy cheeks]! May the harvest and health beas abundant as these water droplets!\"\nAfter the bathing the women present the midwife with gifts of shirts, socks, cloth, which they sling on her right shoulder. In return the midwife ties a bracelet of red and white threads with a silver coin on the right arm of each child she has delivered and gives him or her socks and shirts. Then she ritually washes the face of the child as it is believed that the water which passes the hands of the \"baba\" on Babinden has cleansing properties.\nIn some part of Bulgaria it is customary for mothers to take their children to be blessed by the \"baba\" until the children reach the age of three.\n\nThe baba performs and another ritual role. Immediately after the delivery of the baby, the \"baba\" fills a clay jug with water, dips a sprig of basil or geranium in it and takes it to the church. There the priest blesses the water and the midwife, who then brings the holy water back to the mother. For the next forty days (traditionally, the cleansing period after childbirth) the mother is to use a little bit of the holy water in the baby daily bath.\n\nAt lunch time on Babinden the mothers prepare a feast in the house of the midwife. Every woman brings a freshly baked pogacha (ritual bread), banitsa, boiled or grilled chicken (traditionally, a hen is slaughtered) and a jug with wine or rakia (home-made fruit brandy). Each woman kisses the midwife's hand and gifts her the food. The daughters and daughters-in-law of the hostess set a long and rich table for all the guests. The dinner is accompanied with many songs, dances and much sexually-suggestive joking and banter. The midwife wears a strong of red peppers around her neck and performs fertility rites as the dinner progresses. Only after the meal has concluded may the men join in.\n\nThe Feast of Babinden culminates in the ritual bathing of the midwife. The men and women guests take the baba outside and seat her in a carriage or a sleigh. In some parts of the country a large wicker basket is used. The men, dressed as oxen with hides, masks and horns, pull the carriage or sleigh around the village. If they meet a man on the way, the women ask for ransom. The merry company makes its way to the river and bathes the midwife. This particular ritual is called \"vlechugane\" (Haulage) of the midwife.\n\nIn the evening there is a feast at the town square. The traditional \"horo\" (a particular form of line dancing) is performed . The \"horo\" escorts the \"baba\" to her home. There everyone kisses her hand again and presents her with more gifts.\n\nChildren hold a special place in the Bulgarian culture. Many traditional sayings testify to this; for example \"\"A childless house is a burnt house\" and \"The child is bigger than a king\"\". There is a complex system of traditional beliefs about what should and should not be done in order to have an easy pregnancy and delivery, and a healthy child. \n\nFor an easy delivery the \"baba\" should: \n\nThe delivery itself is to be kept secret from all but the \"baba\" and the woman's mother-in-law.\n\nUntil the baby is baptised, the young mother should stay in bed and should not be left alone. These days are dangerous for her and the baby.\n\nThe fire in the house should not be put out until the 40th day.\n\n"}
{"id": "5871318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5871318", "title": "Caragea's plague", "text": "Caragea's plague\n\nCaragea's plague or Caradja's plague () was a bubonic plague epidemic that occurred in Wallachia, mainly in Bucharest, in the years 1813 and 1814. It coincided with the rule of the Phanariote Prince John Caradja.\n\nAs Caradja came to Bucharest in 1812 after being appointed prince, the plague was already claiming victims in Istanbul, the Ottoman capital. A man in Caradja's retinue grew sick and died. It is alleged that this was the source of the plague in Wallachia, although the next reported death from plague in Wallachia occurred in June 1813. \n\nThe plague was expected and in January 1813, Caradja founded two quarantine hospitals, one in Teleorman and one in Giurgiu.\n\nThere were reports of people with the plague on the streets of Bucharest as early as in April, but the first death attributed to bubonic plague was on 11 June 1813 in Văcăreşti. Quarantine was established, the gates of the city of Bucharest were closed and all the roads from Văcăreşti to Dealul Spirii were guarded to prevent anyone from entering the city without permission.\n\nGovernment clerks and priests had to check each house for plague-infected people, all the foreigners and non-residents were expelled from the city, and the beggars were sent to monasteries outside Bucharest. The money which came from the counties where the plague was spread (Ilfov, Vlaşca, Teleorman and Olt) had to be washed in vinegar and the number of gravediggers was increased to 60.\n\nIn spite of that, the plague continued to spread, mostly due to lack of qualified medical care. The July 1813 register books of the Wallachian government show that most of the decrees were related to the plague. Among the restrictions, meetings in pubs and coffee shops were forbidden, alcohol being only sold for home consumption. The people who died had a simple burial with no attendants. The people who hid sick people or the peddlers (\"both Jewish and Christians\") were expelled from the city and their belongings were burnt. In August, due to the spread of the plague, the request to allow people to flee the city was approved, Caradja asking the ispravnics to take care to avoid contact with the villagers. To avoid crowds, markets and schools were closed down, most judicial proceedings were stopped, and the people in the debtors' prison were freed.\n\nMany of the new rules were not respected, despite the rulers' attempts, which included the spread of printed fliers. By August, the city became almost deserted, with even the doctors fleeing, as did Caradja, who moved his residence outside Bucharest to Cotroceni. The French consul said that two-thirds of the Bucharesters fled.\n\nInitially, sick people were to be committed to the Dudeşti hospital (later also Cioplea and Băneasa), but soon the 14 quarantine rooms of the unit were overrun, and the place became a simple mass grave.\n\nPeople with immunity to the disease were hired as undertakers, and walked from door to door to gather corpses. The corpses were taken to the mass graves in Dudeşti and buried there. Often, dying people were taken also and buried alive, and sometimes beaten to death. An undertaker squad once reported that \"we collected 15 dead today, but only buried 14, because one of them ran away\". Sometimes, sick people with enough strength fought back, and killed the undertakers.\n\nThe highest mortality was in October 1813; the gravediggers couldn't even bury all the dead, and many of them were put in large pits, which were not covered and many \"were eaten by dogs and other beasts\". In February 1814, the last market still open, Târgul de Afară (Obor), was closed down, but soon the people returned to the city. In 1818 the quarantine hospitals of Plumbuita and Văcăreşti were closed down.\n\nAn estimated 60,000 people died of the plague in the two years, 20–30,000 of them in Bucharest, which is a large number, as the city population at the time was about 120,000. According to a church teacher, the church reports say that 20,000 died in Bucharest by January 1814 (excluding those buried in backyards), while the personal doctor of Caradja claimed that between 25,000 and 30,000 died.\n\nAccording to the 1831 census (taken right after another cholera epidemic), the population of Bucharest was about 60,000 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "5931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5931", "title": "Cycling", "text": "Cycling\n\nCycling, also called bicycling or biking, is the use of bicycles for transport, recreation, exercise or sport. People engaged in cycling are referred to as \"cyclists\", \"bikers\", or less commonly, as \"bicyclists\". Apart from two-wheeled bicycles, \"cycling\" also includes the riding of unicycles, tricycles, quadracycles, recumbent and similar human-powered vehicles (HPVs).\n\nBicycles were introduced in the 19th century and now number approximately one billion worldwide. They are the principal means of transportation in many parts of the world.\n\nCycling is widely regarded as a very effective and efficient mode of transportation optimal for short to moderate distances.\n\nBicycles provide numerous benefits in comparison with motor vehicles, including the sustained physical exercise involved in cycling, easier parking, increased maneuverability, and access to roads, bike paths and rural trails. Cycling also offers a reduced consumption of fossil fuels, less air or noise pollution, and much reduced traffic congestion. These lead to less financial cost to the user as well as to society at large (negligible damage to roads, less road area required). By fitting bicycle racks on the front of buses, transit agencies can significantly increase the areas they can serve.\n\nAmong the disadvantages of cycling are the requirement of bicycles (excepting tricycles or quadracycles) to be balanced by the rider in order to remain upright, the reduced protection in crashes in comparison to motor vehicles, often longer travel time (except in densely populated areas), vulnerability to weather conditions, difficulty in transporting passengers, and the fact that a basic level of fitness is required for cycling moderate to long distances.\n\nCycling quickly became an activity after bicycles were introduced in the 19th century. Today, over 50 percent of the human population knows how to ride a bike.\n\nIn many countries, the most commonly used vehicle for road transport is a utility bicycle. These have frames with relaxed geometry, protecting the rider from shocks of the road and easing steering at low speeds. Utility bicycles tend to be equipped with accessories such as mudguards, pannier racks and lights, which extends their usefulness on a daily basis. As the bicycle is so effective as a means of transportation various companies have developed methods of carrying anything from the weekly shop to children on bicycles. Certain countries rely heavily on bicycles and their culture has developed around the bicycle as a primary form of transport. In Europe, Denmark and the Netherlands have the most bicycles per capita and most often use bicycles for everyday transport.\n\nRoad bikes tend to have a more upright shape and a shorter wheelbase, which make the bike more mobile but harder to ride slowly. The design, coupled with low or dropped handlebars, requires the rider to bend forward more, making use of stronger muscles (particularly the gluteus maximus) and reducing air resistance at high speed.\n\nThe price of a new bicycle can range from US$50 to more than US$20,000 (the highest priced bike in the world is the custom Madone by Damien Hirst, sold at $500,000 USD), depending on quality, type and weight (the most exotic road bicycles can weigh as little as 3.2 kg (7 lb)). However, UCI regulations stipulate a legal race bike cannot weigh less than 6.8 kg (14.99 lbs). Being measured for a bike and taking it for a test ride are recommended before buying.\n\nThe drivetrain components of the bike should also be considered. A middle grade dérailleur is sufficient for a beginner, although many utility bikes are equipped with hub gears. If the rider plans a significant amount of hillclimbing a triple-chainrings crankset gear system may be preferred. Otherwise, the relatively lighter and less expensive double chainring may be better. Much simpler fixed wheel bikes are also available.\n\nMany road bikes, along with mountain bikes, include clipless pedals to which special shoes attach, via a cleat, enabling the rider to pull on the pedals as well as push. Other possible accessories for the bicycle include front and rear lights, bells or horns, child carrying seats, cycling computers with GPS, locks, bar tape, fenders (mud-guards), baggage racks, baggage carriers and pannier bags, water bottles and bottle cages.\n\nFor basic maintenance and repairs cyclists can carry a pump (or a CO cartridge), a puncture repair kit, a spare inner tube, and tire levers and a set of allen keys. Cycling can be more efficient and comfortable with special shoes, gloves, and shorts. In wet weather, riding can be more tolerable with waterproof clothes, such as cape, jacket, trousers (pants) and overshoes and high-visibility clothing is advisable to reduce the risk from motor vehicle users.\n\nItems legally required in some jurisdictions, or voluntarily adopted for safety reasons, include bicycle helmets, generator or battery operated lights, reflectors, and audible signalling devices such as a bell or horn. Extras include studded tires and a bicycle computer.\n\nBikes can also be heavily customized, with different seat designs and handle bars, for example.\n\nMany schools and police departments run educational programs to instruct children in bicycle handling skills and introduce them to the rules of the road as they apply to cyclists. In different countries these may be known as bicycle rodeos or operated as schemes such as Bikeability. Education for adult cyclists is available from organizations such as the League of American Bicyclists.\n\nBeyond simply riding, another skill is riding efficiently and safely in traffic. One popular approach to riding in motor vehicle traffic is vehicular cycling, occupying road space as car does. Alternately, in countries such as Denmark and the Netherlands, where cycling is popular, cyclists are often segregated into bike lanes at the side of, or more often separate from, main highways and roads. Many primary schools participate in the national road test in which children individually complete a circuit on roads near the school while being observed by testers.\n\nCyclists, pedestrians and motorists make different demands on road design which may lead to conflicts. Some jurisdictions give priority to motorized traffic, for example setting up one-way street systems, free-right turns, high capacity roundabouts, and slip roads. Others share priority with cyclists so as to encourage more cycling by applying varying combinations of traffic calming measures to limit the impact of motorized transport, and by building bike lanes, bike paths and cycle tracks.\n\nIn jurisdictions where motor vehicles were given priority, cycling has tended to decline while in jurisdictions where cycling infrastructure was built, cycling rates have remained steady or increased. Occasionally, extreme measures against cycling may occur. In Shanghai, where bicycles were once the dominant mode of transport, bicycle travel on a few city roads was banned temporarily in December 2003.\n\nIn areas in which cycling is popular and encouraged, cycle-parking facilities using bicycle stands, lockable mini-garages, and patrolled cycle parks are used in order to reduce theft. Local governments promote cycling by permitting bicycles to be carried on public transport or by providing external attachment devices on public transport vehicles. Conversely, an absence of secure cycle-parking is a recurring complaint by cyclists from cities with low modal share of cycling.\n\nExtensive cycling infrastructure may be found in some cities. Such dedicated paths in some cities often have to be shared with in-line skaters, scooters, skateboarders, and pedestrians. Dedicated cycling infrastructure is treated differently in the law of every jurisdiction, including the question of liability of users in a collision. There is also some debate about the safety of the various types of separated facilities.\n\nBicycles are considered a sustainable mode of transport, especially suited for urban use and relatively shorter distances when used for transport (compared to recreation). Case studies and good practices (from European cities and some worldwide examples) that promote and stimulate this kind of functional cycling in cities can be found at Eltis, Europe's portal for local transport.\n\nA number of cities, including Paris, London and Barcelona, now have successful bike hire schemes designed to help people cycle in the city. Typically these feature utilitarian city bikes which lock into docking stations, released on payment for set time periods. Costs vary from city to city. In London, initial hire access costs £2 per day. The first 30 minutes of each trip is free, with £2 for each additional 30 minutes until the bicycle is returned.\n\nIn the Netherlands, many roads have one or two separate cycleways alongside them, or cycle lanes marked on the road. On roads where adjacent bike paths or cycle tracks exist, the use of these facilities is compulsory, and cycling on the main carriageway is not permitted. Some 35,000 km of cycle-track has been physically segregated from motor traffic, equal to a quarter of the country's entire 140,000 km road network.\n\nUtility cycling refers both to cycling as a mode of daily commuting transport as well as the use of a bicycle in a commercial activity, mainly to transport goods, mostly accomplished in an urban environment.\n\nThe postal services of many countries have long relied on bicycles. The British Royal Mail first started using bicycles in 1880; now bicycle delivery fleets include 37,000 in the UK, 25,700 in Germany, 10,500 in Hungary and 7000 in Sweden. In Australia, Australia Post has also reintroduced bicycle postal deliveries on some routes due to an inability to recruit sufficient licensed riders willing to use their uncomfortable motorbikes. The London Ambulance Service has recently introduced bicycling paramedics, who can often get to the scene of an incident in Central London more quickly than a motorized ambulance.\n\nThe use of bicycles by police has been increasing, since they provide greater accessibility to bicycle and pedestrian zones and allow access when roads are congested.\n\nBicycles enjoy substantial use as general delivery vehicles in many countries. In the UK and North America, as their first jobs, generations of teenagers have worked at delivering newspapers by bicycle. London has many delivery companies that use bicycles with trailers. Most cities in the West, and many outside it, support a sizeable and visible industry of cycle couriers who deliver documents and small packages. In India, many of Mumbai's Dabbawalas use bicycles to deliver home cooked lunches to the city’s workers. In Bogotá, Colombia the city’s largest bakery recently replaced most of its delivery trucks with bicycles. Even the car industry uses bicycles. At the huge Mercedes-Benz factory in Sindelfingen, Germany workers use bicycles, color-coded by department, to move around the factory.\n\nBicycles are used for recreation at all ages. Bicycle touring, also known as cyclotourism, involves touring and exploration or sightseeing by bicycle for leisure. A brevet or randonnée is an organized long-distance ride.\n\nOne popular Dutch pleasure is the enjoyment of relaxed cycling in the countryside of the Netherlands. The land is very flat and full of public bicycle trails and cycle tracks where cyclists are not bothered by cars and other traffic, which makes it ideal for cycling recreation. Many Dutch people subscribe every year to an event called \"fietsvierdaagse\" — four days of organised cycling through the local environment. Paris–Brest–Paris (PBP), which began in 1891, is the oldest bicycling event still run on a regular basis on the open road, covers over and imposes a 90-hour time limit. Similar if smaller institutions exist in many countries.\n\nMany cycling clubs hold organized rides in which bicyclists of all levels participate. The typical organized ride starts with a large group of riders, called the mass, bunch or even peloton. This will thin out over the course of the ride. Many riders choose to ride together in groups of the same skill level to take advantage of drafting.\n\nMost organized rides, for example cyclosportives (or gran fondos), Challenge Rides or reliability trials, and hill climbs include registration requirements and will provide information either through the mail or online concerning start times and other requirements. Rides usually consist of several different routes, sorted by mileage, and with a certain number of rest stops that usually include refreshments, first aid and maintenance tools. Routes can vary by as much as .\n\nMountain biking began in the 1970s, originally as a downhill sport, practised on customized cruiser bicycles around Mount Tamalpais. Most mountain biking takes place on dirt roads, trails and in purpose-built parks. Downhill mountain biking has just evolved in the recent years and is performed at places such as Whistler Mountain Bike Park. Slopestyle, a form of downhill, is when riders do tricks such as tailwhips, 360s, backflips and front flips.\nThere are several disciplines of mountain biking besides downhill. Cross country, often referred to as XC, all mountain, trail, free ride, and newly popular enduro.\n\nThe Marching and Cycling Band HHK from Haarlem (the Netherlands) is one of the few marching bands around the world which also performs on bicycles.\n\nShortly after the introduction of bicycles, competitions developed independently in many parts of the world. Early races involving boneshaker style bicycles were predictably fraught with injuries. Large races became popular during the 1890s \"Golden Age of Cycling\", with events across Europe, and in the U.S. and Japan as well. At one point, almost every major city in the US had a velodrome or two for track racing events, however since the middle of the 20th century cycling has become a minority sport in the US whilst in Continental Europe it continues to be a major sport, particularly in the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Italy and Spain. The most famous of all bicycle races is the Tour de France. This began in 1903, and continues to capture the attention of the sporting world.\n\nIn 1899, Charles Minthorn Murphy became the first man to ride his bicycle a mile in under a minute (hence his nickname, Mile-a-Minute Murphy), which he did by drafting a locomotive at New York's Long Island.\n\nAs the bicycle evolved its various forms, different racing formats developed. Road races may involve both team and individual competition, and are contested in various ways. They range from the one-day road race, criterium, and time trial to multi-stage events like the Tour de France and its sister events which make up cycling's Grand Tours. Recumbent bicycles were banned from bike races in 1934 after Marcel Berthet set a new hour record in his \"Velodyne streamliner\" (49.992 km on November 18, 1933). Track bicycles are used for track cycling in Velodromes, while cyclo-cross races are held on outdoor terrain, including pavement, grass, and mud. Cyclocross races feature man-made features such as small barriers which riders either bunny hop over or dismount and walk over. Time trial races, another form of road racing require a rider to ride against the clock. Time trials can be performed as a team or as a single rider. Bikes are changed for time trial races, using aero bars. In the past decade, mountain bike racing has also reached international popularity and is even an Olympic sport.\n\nProfessional racing organizations place limitations on the bicycles that can be used in the races that they sanction. For example, the Union Cycliste Internationale, the governing body of international cycle sport (which sanctions races such as the Tour de France), decided in the late 1990s to create additional rules which prohibit racing bicycles weighing less than 6.8 kilograms (14.96 pounds). The UCI rules also effectively ban some bicycle frame innovations (such as the recumbent bicycle) by requiring a double triangle structure.\n\nThe bicycle has been used as a method of reconnaissance as well as transporting soldiers and supplies to combat zones. In this it has taken over many of the functions of horses in warfare. In the Second Boer War, both sides used bicycles for scouting. In World War I, France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand used bicycles to move troops. In its 1937 invasion of China, Japan employed some 50,000 bicycle troops, and similar forces were instrumental in Japan's march or \"roll\" through Malaya in World War II. Germany used bicycles again in World War II, while the British employed airborne \"Cycle-commandos\" with folding bikes.\n\nIn the Vietnam War, communist forces used bicycles extensively as cargo carriers along the Ho Chi Minh Trail.\n\nThe last country known to maintain a regiment of bicycle troops was Switzerland, which disbanded its last unit in 2003.\n\nTwo broad and correlated themes run in bicycle activism: one is about advocating the bicycle as an alternative mode of transport, and the other is about the creation of conditions to permit and/or encourage bicycle use, both for utility and recreational cycling. Although the first, which emphasizes the potential for energy and resource conservation and health benefits gained from cycling versus automobile use, is relatively undisputed, the second is the subject of much debate.\n\nIt is generally agreed that improved local and inter-city rail services and other methods of mass transportation (including greater provision for cycle carriage on such services) create conditions to encourage bicycle use. However, there are different opinions on the role of various types of cycling infrastructure in building bicycle-friendly cities and roads.\n\nSome bicycle activists (including some traffic management advisers) seek the construction of bike paths, cycle tracks and bike lanes for journeys of all lengths and point to their success in promoting safety and encouraging more people to cycle. Some activists, especially those from the vehicular cycling tradition, view the safety, practicality, and intent of such facilities with suspicion. They favor a more holistic approach based on the 4 'E's; \"education\" (of everyone involved), \"encouragement\" (to apply the education), \"enforcement\" (to protect the rights of others), and \"engineering\" (to facilitate travel while respecting every person's equal right to do so). Some groups offer training courses to help cyclists integrate themselves with other traffic.\n\nCritical Mass is an event typically held on the last Friday of every month in cities around the world where bicyclists take to the streets \"en masse\". While the ride was founded with the idea of drawing attention to how unfriendly the city was to bicyclists, the leaderless structure of Critical Mass makes it impossible to assign it any one specific goal. In fact, the purpose of Critical Mass is not formalized beyond the direct action of meeting at a set location and time and traveling as a group through city streets.\n\nThere is a long-running cycle helmet debate among activists. The most heated controversy surrounds the topic of compulsory helmet use.\n\nCyclists form associations, both for specific interests (trails development, road maintenance, bike maintenance, urban design, racing clubs, touring clubs, etc.) and for more global goals (energy conservation, pollution reduction, promotion of fitness). Some bicycle clubs and national associations became prominent advocates for improvements to roads and highways. In the United States, the League of American Wheelmen lobbied for the improvement of roads in the last part of the 19th century, founding and leading the national Good Roads Movement. Their model for political organization, as well as the paved roads for which they argued, facilitated the growth of the automobile.\n\nAs a sport, cycling is governed internationally by the Union Cycliste Internationale in Switzerland, USA Cycling (merged with the United States Cycling Federation in 1995) in the United States, (for upright bicycles) and by the International Human Powered Vehicle Association (for other HPVs, or human-powered vehicles). Cycling for transport and touring is promoted on a European level by the European Cyclists' Federation, with associated members from Great Britain, Japan and elsewhere. Regular conferences on cycling as transport are held under the auspices of Velo City; global conferences are coordinated by Velo Mondial.\n\nThe health benefits of cycling outweigh the risks, when cycling is compared to a sedentary lifestyle. A Dutch study found that cycling can extend lifespans by up to 14 months, but the risks equated to a reduced lifespan of 40 days or less. Cycling in the Netherlands is often safer than in other parts of the world, so the risk-benefit ratio will be different in other regions. Overall, benefits of cycling or walking have been shown to exceed risks by ratios of 9:1 to 96:1 when compared with no exercise at all, including a wide variety of physical and mental outcomes. \n\nThe physical exercise gained from cycling is generally linked with increased health and well-being. According to the World Health Organization, physical inactivity is second only to tobacco smoking as a health risk in developed countries, and this is associated with many tens of billions of dollars of healthcare costs. The WHO's report suggests that increasing physical activity is a public health 'best buy', and that cycling is a 'highly suitable activity' for this purpose. The charity Sustrans reports that investment in cycling provision can give a 20:1 return from health and other benefits. It has been estimated that, on average, approximately 20 life-years are gained from the health benefits of road bicycling for every life-year lost through injury.\n\nBicycles are often used by people seeking to improve their fitness and cardiovascular health. In this regard, cycling is especially helpful for those with arthritis of the lower limbs who are unable to pursue sports that cause impact to the knees and other joints. Since cycling can be used for the practical purpose of transportation, there can be less need for self-discipline to exercise.\n\nCycling while seated is a relatively non-weight bearing exercise that, like swimming, does little to promote bone density. Cycling up and out of the saddle, on the other hand, does a better job by transferring more of the rider's body weight to the legs. However, excessive cycling while standing can cause knee damage It used to be thought that cycling while standing was less energy efficient, but recent research has proven this not to be true. Other than air resistance, there is no wasted energy from cycling while standing, if it is done correctly.\n\nCycling on a stationary cycle is frequently advocated as a suitable exercise for rehabilitation, particularly for lower limb injury, owing to the low impact which it has on the joints. In particular, cycling is commonly used within knee rehabilitation programs.\nAs a response to the increased global sedentarity and consequent overweight and obesity, one response that has been adopted by many organizations concerned with health and environment is the promotion of Active travel, which seeks to promote walking and cycling as safe and attractive alternatives to motorized transport. Given that many journeys are for relatively short distances, there is considerable scope to replace car use with walking or cycling, though in many settings this may require some infrastructure modification, particularly to attract the less experienced and confident.\n\nCycling suffers from a perception that it is unsafe. This perception is not always backed by hard numbers, because of under reporting of accidents and lack of bicycle use data (amount of cycling, kilometers cycled) which make it hard to assess the risk and monitor changes in risks.\nIn the UK, fatality rates per mile or kilometre are slightly less than those for walking. In the US, bicycling fatality rates are less than 2/3 of those walking the same distance. However, in the UK for example the fatality and serious injury rates \"per hour of travel\" are just over double for cycling than those for walking. Thus if a person is, for example, about to undertake a ten kilometre journey to a given destination it may on average be safer to undertake this journey by bicycle than on foot. However, if a person is intending, for example, to undertake an hour's exercise it may be more dangerous to take that exercise by cycling rather than by walking.\n\nDespite the risk factors associated with bicycling, cyclists have a lower overall mortality rate when compared to other groups. A Danish study in 2000 found that even after adjustment for other risk factors, including leisure time physical activity, those who did not cycle to work experienced a 39% higher mortality rate than those who did.\n\nInjuries (to cyclists, from cycling) can be divided into two types:\n\nAcute physical trauma includes injuries to the head and extremities resulting from falls and collisions. Most cycle deaths result from a collision with a car or heavy goods vehicle, both motorist and cyclist having been found responsible for collisions. A third of collisions between motorists and cyclists are caused by car dooring. However, around 16% of serious cyclist injuries reported to police in the UK in 2014 did not involve any other person or vehicle.\n\nAlthough a majority of bicycle collisions occur during the day, bicycle lighting is recommended for safety when bicycling at night to increase visibility.\n\nOf a study of 518 cyclists, a large majority reported at least one overuse injury, with over one third requiring medical treatment. The most common injury sites were the neck (48.8%) and the knees (41.7%), as well as the groin/buttocks (36.1%), hands (31.1%), and back (30.3%). Women were more likely to suffer from neck and shoulder pain than men.\n\nMany cyclists suffer from overuse injuries to the knees, affecting cyclists at all levels. These are caused by many factors:\n\nOveruse injuries, including chronic nerve damage at weight bearing locations, can occur as a result of repeatedly riding a bicycle for extended periods of time. Damage to the ulnar nerve in the palm, carpal tunnel in the wrist, the genitourinary tract or bicycle seat neuropathy may result from overuse. Recumbent bicycles are designed on different ergonomic principles and eliminate pressure from the saddle and handlebars, due to the relaxed riding position.\n\nNote that overuse is a relative term, and capacity varies greatly between individuals. Someone starting out in cycling must be careful to increase length and frequency of cycling sessions slowly, starting for example at an hour or two per day, or a hundred miles or kilometers per week. Bilateral muscular pain is a normal by-product of the training process, whereas unilateral pain may reveal \"exercise-induced arterial endofibrosis\". Joint pain and numbness are also early signs of overuse injury.\n\nA Spanish study of top triathletes found those who cover more than 186 miles (300 km) a week on their bikes have less than 4% normal looking sperm, where normal adult males would be expected to have from 15% to 20%.\n\nMuch work has been done to investigate optimal bicycle saddle shape, size and position, and negative effects of extended use of less than optimal seats or configurations.\n\nExcessive saddle height can cause posterior knee pain, while setting the saddle too low can cause pain in the anterior of the knee. An incorrectly fitted saddle may eventually lead to muscle imbalance. A 25 to 35 degree knee angle is recommended to avoid an overuse injury.\n\nCycling has been linked to sexual impotence due to pressure on the perineum from the seat, but fitting a proper sized seat prevents this effect. In extreme cases, pudendal nerve entrapment can be a source of intractable perineal pain. Some cyclists with induced pudendal nerve pressure neuropathy gained relief from improvements in saddle position and riding techniques.\n\nThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has investigated the potential health effects of prolonged bicycling in police bicycle patrol units, including the possibility that some bicycle saddles exert excessive pressure on the urogenital area of cyclists, restricting blood flow to the genitals. Their study found that using bicycle seats without protruding noses reduced pressure on the groin by at least 65% and significantly reduced the number of cases of urogenital paresthesia. A follow-up found that 90% of bicycle officers who tried the no-nose seat were using it six months later. NIOSH recommends that riders use a no-nose bicycle seat for workplace bicycling.\n\nDespite rumors to the contrary, there is no scientific evidence linking cycling with testicular cancer.\n\nOne concern is that riding in traffic may expose the cyclist to higher levels of air pollution, especially if he or she travels on or along busy roads. Some authors have claimed this to be untrue, showing that the pollutant and irritant count within cars is consistently higher, presumably because of limited circulation of air within the car and due to the air intake being directly in the stream of other traffic. Other authors have found small or inconsistent differences in concentrations but claim that exposure of cyclists is higher due to increased minute ventilation and is associated with minor biological changes. The significance of the associated health effect, if any, is unclear but probably much smaller than the health impacts associated with accidents and the health benefits derived from additional physical activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1252814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252814", "title": "Declaration of Sports", "text": "Declaration of Sports\n\nThe Declaration of Sports (also known as the Book of Sports) was a declaration of James I of England issued just for Lancashire in 1617, nationally in 1618, and reissued by Charles I in 1633. It listed the sports and recreations that were permitted on Sundays and other holy days.\n\nIt was originally issued in consultation with Thomas Morton, bishop of Chester, to resolve a dispute in Lancashire between the Puritans and the gentry (many of whom were Roman Catholics). The initial declaration was just for Lancashire, but in 1618, James made the declaration national. The 1618 declaration has largely the same main text as the 1617 version, but with an additional paragraph at the beginning explaining that the king has decided to make the declaration applicable to the whole of England.\n\nThe declaration listed archery, dancing, \"leaping, vaulting, or any other such harmless recreation\" as permissible sports, together with \"May-games, Whitsun-ales and Morris-dances, and the setting up of May-poles\". Also allowed: \"women shall have leave to carry rushes to the church for the decorating of it, according to their old custom.\"\n\nAmongst the activities that were prohibited were bear- and bull-baiting, \"interludes\" and bowling.\n\nOn the one hand, the declaration rebuked Puritans and other \"precise persons\", and was issued to counteract the growing Puritan calls for strict abstinence on the Christian Sabbath (Sabbatarianism). On the other, it condemned Catholics and others who did not attend church services in their parish, as the declaration specified that only people who had first attended divine service were entitled to participate in recreations afterward.\n\nThe declaration was reissued by Charles I on 18 October 1633, as \"The King's Majesty's declaration to his subjects concerning lawful sports to be used\". It was claimed by William Prynne that the new declaration was written by Charles' new Archbishop of Canterbury, William Laud, but Laud denied this and there is only evidence that he supported and facilitated the reissue. Moreover, the 1633 declaration has the same main text as the 1617 and 1618 declarations of King James, with the primary differences an additional introduction and conclusion adding wakes and ales (countryside festivals) to the list of sanctioned recreations. Charles ordered that any minister who refused to read it would be deprived of position. As the Puritans gained power in Parliament in the lead-up to the English Civil War, hostility to the \"Book of Sports\" grew. Attempts to enforce the declaration came to an end with the fall of Archbishop Laud in 1640, and Parliament ordered the book publicly burned in 1643, two years before Laud was executed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "465009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465009", "title": "Defence mechanisms", "text": "Defence mechanisms\n\nA defence mechanism is an unconscious psychological mechanism that reduces anxiety arising from unacceptable or potentially harmful stimuli.\n\nDefence mechanisms may result in healthy or unhealthy consequences depending on the circumstances and frequency with which the mechanism is used. In psychoanalytic theory, defence mechanisms () are psychological strategies brought into play by the unconscious mind to manipulate, deny, or distort reality in order to defend against feelings of anxiety and unacceptable impulses and to maintain one's self-schema or other schemas. These processes that manipulate, deny, or distort reality may include the following: repression, or the burying of a painful feeling or thought from one's awareness even though it may resurface in a symbolic form; identification, incorporating an object or thought into oneself; and rationalization, the justification of one's behaviour and motivations by substituting \"good\" acceptable reasons for the actual motivations. In psychoanalytic theory, repression is considered as the basis for other defence mechanisms.\n\nHealthy persons normally use different defences throughout life. An ego defence mechanism becomes pathological only when its persistent use leads to maladaptive behaviour such that the physical or mental health of the individual is adversely affected. Among the purposes of ego defence mechanisms is to protect the mind/self/ego from anxiety or social sanctions or to provide a refuge from a situation with which one cannot currently cope.\n\nOne resource used to evaluate these mechanisms is the \"Defense Style Questionnaire\" (DSQ-40).\n\nThe concept of id impulses comes from Sigmund Freud's structural model. According to this theory, id impulses are based on the pleasure principle: instant gratification of one's own desires and needs. Sigmund Freud believed that the id represents biological instinctual impulses in humans, such as aggression (Thanatos or the Death instinct) and sexuality (Eros or the Life instinct).\n\nFor example, when the id impulses (e.g., desire to have sexual relations with a stranger) conflict with the superego (e.g., belief in societal conventions of not having sex with unknown persons), unsatisfied feelings of anxiousness or feelings of anxiety come to the surface. To reduce these unpleasant feelings, the ego might use defence mechanisms (conscious or unconscious blockage of the id impulses).\n\nFreud believed that conflicts between these two structures resulted in conflicts associated with psychosexual stages.\n\nFreud proposed three structures of the psyche or personality:\n\nIn the ego, there are two ongoing processes. First, there is the unconscious primary process, where the thoughts are not organised in a coherent way; the feelings can shift, contradictions are not in conflict or are just not perceived that way, and condensations arise. There is no logic and no time line. Lust is important for this process. By contrast, there is the conscious secondary process, where strong boundaries are set and thoughts must be organised in a coherent way. Most conscious thoughts originate here.\n\nId impulses are not appropriate in a civilised society, so there is societal pressure to modify the pleasure principle in favour of the reality principle; that is, the requirements of the external world.\n\nThe superego forms as the child grows and learns parental and social standards. The superego consists of two structures: the conscience, which stores information about what is \"bad\" and what has been punished, and the ego ideal, which stores information about what is \"good\" and what one \"should\" do or be.\n\nWhen anxiety becomes overwhelming, it is the ego's place to protect the person by employing defence mechanisms. Guilt, embarrassment, and shame often accompany anxiety. In the first definitive book on defence mechanisms, \"The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence\" (1936), Anna Freud introduced the concept of signal anxiety; she stated that it was \"not directly a conflicted instinctual tension but a signal occurring in the ego of an anticipated instinctual tension\".\n\nThe signalling function of anxiety is thus seen as crucial, and biologically adapted to warn the organism of danger or a threat to its equilibrium. The anxiety is felt as an increase in bodily or mental tension, and the signal that the organism receives in this way allows for the possibility of taking defensive action regarding the perceived danger. Defence mechanisms work by distorting the id impulses into acceptable forms, or by unconscious or conscious blockage of these impulses.\n\nThe list of defence mechanisms, with no theoretical consensus on the exact number. Classifying defence mechanisms according to some of their properties (like underlying mechanisms, similarities or connections with personality) has been attempted. Different theorists have different categorizations and conceptualizations of defence mechanisms. Large reviews of theories of defence mechanisms are available from Paulhus, Fridhandler and Hayes (1997) and Cramer (1991). The \"Journal of Personality\" published a special issue on defence mechanisms (1998).\n\nIn 1936, Anna Freud enumerated the ten defence mechanisms that appear in the works of her father, Sigmund Freud: 1. Repression, 2. Regression, 3. Reaction formation, 4. Isolation, 5. Undoing, 6. Projection, 7. Introjection, 8. Turning against one's own person, 9. Reversal into the opposite, 10. Sublimation or displacement.\n\nBoth Freuds studied defence mechanisms, but Anna spent more of her time and research on five main mechanisms: repression, regression, projection, reaction formation, and sublimation. All defence mechanisms are responses to anxiety and how the consciousness and unconscious handle the stress of a social situation.\n\n\nOtto F. Kernberg (1967) developed a theory of borderline personality organization of which one consequence may be borderline personality disorder. His theory is based on ego psychological object relations theory. Borderline personality organization develops when the child cannot integrate helpful and harmful mental objects together. Kernberg views the use of primitive defence mechanisms as central to this personality organization. Primitive psychological defences are projection, denial, dissociation or splitting and they are called borderline defence mechanisms. Also, devaluation and projective identification are seen as borderline defences.\n\nIn George Eman Vaillant's (1977) categorization, defences form a continuum related to their psychoanalytical developmental level. They are classified into pathological, immature, neurotic and \"mature\" defences.\n\nRobert Plutchik's (1979) theory views defences as derivatives of basic emotions, which in turn relate to particular diagnostic structures. According to his theory, reaction formation relates to joy (and manic features), denial relates to acceptance (and histrionic features), repression to fear (and passivity), regression to surprise (and borderline traits), compensation to sadness (and depression), projection to disgust (and paranoia), displacement to anger (and hostility) and intellectualization to anticipation (and obsessionality).\n\nThe \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV)\" published by the American Psychiatric Association (1994) includes a tentative diagnostic axis for defence mechanisms. This classification is largely based on Vaillant's hierarchical view of defences, but has some modifications. Examples include: denial, fantasy, rationalization, regression, isolation, projection, and displacement.\n\nPsychiatrist George Eman Vaillant introduced a four-level classification of defence mechanisms:\n\nWhen predominant, the mechanisms on this level are almost always severely pathological. These six defences, in conjunction, permit one effectively to rearrange external experiences to eliminate the need to cope with reality. Pathological users of these mechanisms frequently appear irrational or insane to others. These are the \"psychotic\" defences, common in overt psychosis. However, they are normally found in dreams and throughout childhood as well.\nThey include:\n\nThese mechanisms are often present in adults. These mechanisms lessen distress and anxiety produced by threatening people or by an uncomfortable reality. Excessive use of such defences is seen as socially undesirable, in that they are immature, difficult to deal with and seriously out of touch with reality. These are the so-called \"immature\" defences and overuse almost always leads to serious problems in a person's ability to cope effectively. These defences are often seen in major depression and personality disorders.\nThey include:\n\nThese mechanisms are considered neurotic, but fairly common in adults. Such defences have short-term advantages in coping, but can often cause long-term problems in relationships, work and in enjoying life when used as one's primary style of coping with the world.\nThey include:\n\nThese are commonly found among emotionally healthy adults and are considered mature, even though many have their origins in an immature stage of development. They have been adapted through the years in order to optimise success in human society and relationships. The use of these defences enhances pleasure and feelings of control. These defences help to integrate conflicting emotions and thoughts, whilst still remaining effective. Those who use these mechanisms are usually considered virtuous.\nMature defences include:\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are many different perspectives on how the construct of \"defence\" relates to the construct of \"coping\"; some writers differentiate the constructs in various ways, but \"an important literature exists that does not make any difference between the two concepts\". In at least one of his books, George Eman Vaillant stated that he \"will use the terms \"adaptation\", \"resilience\", \"coping\", and \"defense\" interchangeably\".\n"}
{"id": "54119521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54119521", "title": "Deradicalization", "text": "Deradicalization\n\nDeradicalization refers to preventive counterterrorism measures that aim to have those with extreme and violent religious or political ideologies adopt more moderate and nonviolent views. This is most effective when counteracting an ongoing − rather than well advanced − process of radicalization (counter-radicalization) whereby individuals or groups gradually develop a mindset that increases the risk of violent extremism or terrorism. Deradicalization is not to be confused with anti-radicalization in which radicalization is aimed to be deterred and prevented from occurring in the first place. Deradicalization has been described as an emerging science.\n\nGoogle's think tank Jigsaw has been developing a new program − called the Redirect Method − in which Google's search advertising algorithms and YouTube's video platform are used to target aspiring ISIS recruits and ultimately dissuade them from joining the group.\n\nMachine learning and scientific inquiry can be used to find the most effective contents (such as videos) for deradicalization, to learn why people leave terrorist movements and to identify aspiring violent radicals.\n\nHumera Khan, executive director of the Islamic deradicalization group Muflehu, states that deradicalization also needs human interaction and a supportive community backing up the person's decision to turn away from extremism.\n\nRenee Garfinkel also notes that personal relationships play a major role in the transformation of involvement in violence to non-violent activity, saying \"change often hinges on a relationship with a mentor or friend who supports and affirms peaceful behavior\".\n\nMany nations and universities are engaging in deradicalization efforts.\n\nFurthermore, religious education in schools could be replaced by more secular ethics education in which relevant issues could be debated, religious extremism reduced and young people deradicalized.\n\nCompanies, organizations and nations might use deradicalization as a pretext to spread their own propaganda or to manipulate people with nonviolent views. Appropriate oversight, proper training data for machine learning approaches and similar measures may mitigate such risks.\n\nSociologist Gérald Bronner calls the notion of \"deradicalization\" flawed, saying \"It means that you can take an idea or a belief out of the brain, and I think that’s just impossible\" and instead suggests \"not a kind of mental manipulation but the opposite — mind liberation, a strengthening of their intellectual immune systems\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4310416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4310416", "title": "European Genetics Foundation", "text": "European Genetics Foundation\n\nThe European Genetics Foundation (EGF) is a non-profit organization, dedicated to the training of young geneticists active in medicine, to continuing education in genetics/genomics and to the promotion of public understanding of genetics. Its main office is located in Bologna, Italy.\n\nIn 1988 Prof. Giovanni Romeo, President of the European Genetics Foundation (EGF) and professor of Medical Genetics at the University of Bologna and Prof. Victor A. McKusick founded together the European School of Genetic Medicine (ESGM).\n\nSince that time ESGM has taught genetics to postgraduate students (young M.D. and Ph.D.) from some 70 different countries. Most of the courses are presented at ESGM's Main Training Center (MTC) in Bertinoro di Romagna (Italy), and are also available via webcast at authorized Remote Training Centers (RTC) in various countries in Europe and the Mediterranean area (Hybrid Courses). In the Netherlands and Switzerland, medical geneticists must attend at least one ESGM course before admission to their Board examinations.\n\nFor these reasons, the School has been able to expand and to obtain funding from the European Commission and from other international organizations.\n\nThe European School of Genetic Medicine was founded in 1988 and saw rapid success, which necessitated that an administrative body be formed. To this end the European Genetics Foundation was born in Genoa on 20 November 1995, with the following aims:\n\nThe ESGM began receiving funding from the European Union and from other international organizations including the European Society of Human Genetics, the Federation of European Biochemical Societies, the March of Dimes and UNESCO. Since its founding, the ESGM has become a model for other European institutions responsible for advanced training in genetics.\n\nIn order to fully realize all of the European Genetics Foundation’s aims, the Foundation has identified a permanent site for the ESGM at the Hermitage of Ronzano, a monastery situated in the hills of Bologna, at 3.5 km from the city center and 7 km from the airport. The monastic order of the Servants of Maria, founded in Florence in 1233 and owner of the Hermitage, donated 16,000 m² for the purpose of constructing this center, which will be named the \"Giuseppe Levi and Victor A. Mckusick Euro-Mediterranean Center for Genetics and Medicine\". Giuseppe Levi, a world-famous scientist, trained three Nobel Laureates (Salvador Luria, Renato Dulbecco and Rita Levi-Montalcini), and Victor A. McKusick is considered the father of medical genetics throughout the world.\n\nThe European Genetics Foundation envisions the Ronzano Center as a venue for advanced training, and as a think tank where experts in genetics and related disciplines from all over the world can discuss issues of scientific, social, and political relevance, and to develop problem-solving strategies to address these issues.\n\nThe new center will host:\n\n"}
{"id": "3230875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3230875", "title": "Evolutionary Principle", "text": "Evolutionary Principle\n\nThe Evolutionary Principle is a largely psychological doctrine which roughly states that when a species is removed from the habitat in which it evolved, or that habitat changes significantly within a brief period (evolutionarily speaking), the species will develop maladaptive or outright pathological behavior. The Evolutionary Principle is important in neo-tribalist and anarcho-primitivist thinking.\n"}
{"id": "6057429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6057429", "title": "General fitness training", "text": "General fitness training\n\nGeneral fitness training works towards broad goals of overall health and well-being, rather than narrow goals of sport competition, larger muscles or concerns over appearance. A regular moderate workout regimen and healthy diet can improve general appearance markers of good health such as muscle tone, healthy skin, hair and nails, while preventing age or lifestyle-related reductions in health and the series of heart and organ failures that accompany inactivity and poor diet.\n\nDiet itself helps to increase calorie burning by boosting metabolism, a process further enhanced while gaining more lean muscle. An aerobic exercise program can burn fat and increase the metabolic rate.\n\nGeneral fitness training may be used to promote weight loss. Personal trainers construct a program centered on restructuring lifestyle while helping to provide the necessary motivation for its success.\n\nGeneral fitness training can also be used to promote toning or building of muscles, which are essentially the same physiological process. (However, 'toning' implies moderate muscle definition, whereas 'building' implies increasing musculature significantly.)\n\nSports-specific trainers can help improve strength, flexibility and stamina to improve performance in specific sports. Options include increasing arm strength for tennis playing or improve strength and core stability providing better balance playing golf.\n\nSports specific training is all about developing physical conditions to improve performance and skills at a particular sport. Also, understanding the needs of the game, training/practicing at the correct pace, in order to meet sports requirements.\n\n\"\"Injury recovery\n\nCertified personal trainers can contribute significantly and uniquely to recovery and rehabilitation efforts. But personal trainers mainly pick up where physical therapy leaves off.\n\nDuring a pregnancy period a lot of stress is put on the muscle on the lower back due to the heavy weight being carried. Exercise and stretching can be extremely important to increase strength and reinforce the body structure for the extra weight.\n\nDuring the second trimester (weeks 13-28) the unpleasant symptoms from the first trimester should have settled down and the mother will start to feel a renewed level of energy. The biggest change during this period will be the growth of the 'bump'. As the baby grows the mother should notice a change in her body position and posture. The extra weight occurs at the front of the body, the hip and back joints will take the strain. The posture will shift as the lower back muscles tighten and take an exaggerated curvature. The abdominal muscles will stretch and strain to adapt to the growing baby. During this time it will be extremely beneficial to perform exercises to help strengthen weakened abdominal and pelvic floor muscles, in order to reduce the strain on the lower back.\n\n\nTypes of Fitness Training You should also know about\n"}
{"id": "50307494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50307494", "title": "George Bartley (editor)", "text": "George Bartley (editor)\n\nGeorge Bartley is an American ophthalmologist and Editor-in-Chief of \"Ophthalmology\", a major journal in that field. He also is the Louis and Evelyn Krueger Professor of Ophthalmology at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nDr. Bartley earned a Bachelors of Arts from Miami University in 1978 and a Doctor of Medicine degree from the Ohio State University College of Medicine in 1981. After internship at Riverside Methodist Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, he conducted residency training in ophthalmology at the Mayo Clinic and subspecialty training in ophthalmic plastic and orbital surgery at Wright State University under Dr. John D. Bullock, a cataract surgeon and ophthalmic plastic surgeon.\n\nBartley joined the Department of Ophthalmology at Mayo Clinic in 1986 and was appointed Department Chair in 1992. He served in that role until 2001 when he was elected to the Mayo Clinic Board of Governors. The following year, Bartley was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Mayo’s operations in Florida. He resumed his surgical practice in Rochester in 2009 while serving as Chair of the Doctors Mayo Society and Medical Director for Alumni Philanthropy.\n\nBartley has served as the Editor-in-Chief of \"Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery\", Senior Associate Editor of the \"American Journal of Ophthalmology\", and as an editorial board member of \"Archives of Ophthalmology\". He has been Editor-in-Chief of the journal \"Ophthalmology\" since 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "38433081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38433081", "title": "Health in All Policies", "text": "Health in All Policies\n\nHealth in All Policies (HiAP) was a term first used in Europe during the Finnish presidency of the European Union (EU), in 2006, with the aim of collaborating across sectors to achieve common goals. It is a strategy to include health considerations in policy making across different sectors that influence health, such as transportation, agriculture, land use, housing, public safety, and education. It reaffirms public health's essential role in addressing policy and structural factors affecting health, as articulated by the Ten Essential Public Health Services, and it has been promoted as an opportunity for the public health sector to engage a broader array of partners.\n\nThe 1978 World Health Organization (WHO) declaration of Alma-Ata was the first formal acknowledgment of the importance of intersectoral action for health. The spirit of Alma-Ata was carried forward in the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion (adopted in Ottawa in 1986), which discussed \"healthy public policies\" as a key area for health promotion.\n\nHiAP is built on the rationale that health is determined by multiple factors outside the direct control of the health care sector, such as education, income, and the conditions in which people live, work, and play. Decisions made in other sectors can positively or negatively affect the determinants of health. HiAP is an approach to policy making in which decision-makers in other sectors routinely consider health outcomes, including benefits, harms, and health related-costs.\n\nHiAP has also been described as an essential component of primary health care. HiAP has been most commonly implemented by federal, state and local governments, but it can also be applied to both private and non-profit policy-making.\n\nHiAP builds off the concepts embedded in \"healthy public policies\" and \"intersectoral action for health,\" promoted over the past four decades. The spirit of Alma-Ata was carried forward in the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion (adopted in Ottawa in 1986), which discussed \"healthy public policies\" as a key area for health promotion. Increased attention to the role of non-health sectors in promoting health continued to grow with discussions held at the Second International Conference on Health Promotion in Adelaide, Australia in 1988. In 2007, HiAP was recommended by Adelaide Thinker in Residence Ilona Kickbusch as a new approach to health and governance in South Australia.\n\nIn the context of the 8th WHO Global Conference on Health Promotion, it has been defined as \"an approach to public policies across sectors that systematically takes into account the health and health systems implications of decisions, seeks synergies, and avoids harmful health impacts, in order to improve population health and health equity.\" Such an approach is founded on health-related rights and obligations. It emphasizes the consequences of public policies on health determinants and aims to improve the accountability of policy-makers for health impacts at all levels of policy-making.\n\nHiAP has been widely implemented in many parts of the world.\n\nOne of the first countries to adopt a \"healthy policies\" approach to address public health concerns was Finland. The North Karelia Project, launched in 1972, aimed to reduce the impact of coronary heart disease in the Finnish region of North Karelia by engaging other sectors (like community organizations, dairy and meat producers, schools) to improve community health. The project, which involved the support of the Finnish authorities and the WHO, resulted in significant reductions in cardiovascular disease mortality and has been noted as a successful model for cross-sector collaboration. Finland has continued its work in HiAP. For example, in 2001 Finland formulated the principles for the implementation of the Health 2015 cooperation program that provides a framework for intersectoral health promotion. The purpose of the long-term health policy strategy is to improve health, help promote the adoption of healthy lifestyles among the Finnish people and to reduce health disparities between different groups of the population.\n\nThe implementation of HiAP in South Australia has focused on \"developing a process to position HiAP as a core process of government, rather than an approach run by and for the health sector\". The South Australian model of HiAP is based on two basic elements: central governance and accountability and a \"health lens\" analysis process.\n\nThe 2010 Adelaide Statement of Health in All Policies describes instances in which HiAP works best and provides tools that can be useful at different phases of policy implementation. While South Australia has formally adopted the concept of shared governance for health, critics have noted that South Australia is still far from having an established \"health in all policies\" governance system.\n\nActNow BC is an ongoing example of HiAP implementation in Canada. The intersectoral-based HiAP strategy aims to improve British Columbians' health by addressing common risk factors and reducing chronic diseases. Involving local governments, communities, employers, and schools, ActNow BC seeks to develop and promote programs that make British Columbians opt for healthy choices.\n\nWith the goal of implementing a global strategy to fight cancer, France launched the Cancer Plan in 2003. One of its main objectives was to reduce cancer mortality by 20% in 5 years, by establishing goals that involved the participation of multiple sectors. Evaluation of the plan in 2008 revealed that although progress was made in some areas, several of the goals were not met. Among the weaknesses of the plan, was the lack of consideration of social inequalities and access to health care and an ineffective coordination of patient care. To address the deficiencies of the 2003 plan and continue with its implementation, the French Government launched the Cancer Plan 2009-2013 in November 2009.\n\nFueled by the health reform in 2000, Thailand has encouraged the practice of intersectoral collaboration by making the use of Health Impact Assessments (HIAs) mandatory at all levels of government. HIAs have been conducted to help combat the increasing number of health problems caused by air pollution, pesticide contamination, coal-fired power plants, and other environmental hazards. HIAs are seen as a valuable tool to promote collaboration between stakeholders to consider diverse interests and identify approaches to design a healthier society.\n\nSince 2009, the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development and the Environmental Protection Agency have worked together through the Partnership for Sustainable Communities. The three agencies jointly prioritized six livability principles that have been used to guide funding decisions, proposed policies, and legislative recommendations within the agencies. The principles target improvements in affordable housing, green building, transit, mixed-use development, water management, and brownfield space. Each of the principles promotes the mission of one or more of the individual agencies, such as efficient transportation, economic development, clean environment, etc. Many of the individual principles are also understood to contribute to health outcomes. Through a growing portfolio of case studies from at least 45 communities across the US, the partnership has demonstrated that individual elements of building healthier communities can contribute to other policy goals, such as greater economic development and better living conditions.\n\nThe concept of HiAP is included in section 4001 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010), which mandated creation of the National Prevention Council, led by the Surgeon General of the United States, and the development of the National Prevention Strategy. The National Prevention Strategy, published in June 2011, calls for increased coordination between government agencies, as well as partnerships with community organizations, businesses, healthcare providers, and others. The National Prevention Strategy prioritizes work around four strategic directions: creating healthy community environments, empowering individuals to make healthy choices, integrating clinical and community preventive services, and reducing health disparities. That can be accomplished, for example, through creating more neighborhoods with better access to fruits and vegetables, active transportation, and clean air.\n\nCalifornia's Health in All Policies Task Force, created in 2010 by Executive Order S-04-10, represents the first formal statewide effort to bring together policy makers to identify and recommend programs, policies, and strategies to improve health using a HiAP framework. The task force, staffed by the California Department of Public Health, comprises 19 state agencies, offices, and departments, is under the auspices of the Strategic Growth Council, was created in 2008. The 2010 report, \"Health in All Policies Task Force Report to the Strategic Growth Council,\" identifies 34 recommendations ranging from single actions to ongoing, multi-agency initiatives. All recommendations are linked to six principles: transport, housing, affordable healthy food, safe neighborhoods, green space, and that decision makers consider health consequences during policy development. Examples of recommendations include developing health criteria into discretionary funds review process and incorporating health issues into state data collection and survey efforts.\n\nThe San Francisco Department of Public Health (SFDPH) has worked extensively to implement HiAP. For example, its Healthy Development Measurement Tool is a comprehensive set of evaluation and planning tools that bring health considerations into urban planning and development. The tools provide metrics to consider health in urban plans and stress the importance of gathering input from community members. SFDPH has also worked with community partners to conduct a variety of HIAs, including assessing the impact of changes to the living wage ordinance, housing policies, and zoning policies.\n\nUse of HIA has increased among local entities across the United States. For example, an HIA was conducted in Downtown Los Angeles to assess all the possible health effects of a proposed development of a football stadium. A community coalition including Los Angeles Community Action Network, Physicians for Social Responsibility Los Angeles, and Comunidad Presente, worked with community members and Human Impact Partners, to gather information on the expected health effects of the proposed development and address concerns about loss of affordable housing, displacement of low-income individuals, and increases in noise and pollution. They developed a report describing current trends in health conditions, demographics, housing, employment, and safety, the expected impact of the proposed stadium, and a list of recommendations for mitigating harm. As a part of a larger legal case, presentation of the concerns resulted in receipt of $15 million to a housing trust fund to create and maintain low income housing, $1.9 million for air quality improvements, $300,000 for housing experts to address tenants' rights.\n\nA HiAP approach has gained support from health advocates in the United States. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) acknowledges that policies made outside of the health sector shape the environments people live in and the choices they make. It notes that some public health problems are so complex that they are best tackled not only by traditional health policy but also by policies and issues that affect the social determinants of health such as schools, zoning, food advertising, public transportation, parks, workplaces, restaurants, and tax policy. The IOM recommends implementing a HiAP approach for more fully addressing the determinants of health, better coordinate efforts across sectors and more effectively using public resources.\n\nMany public health associations have also endorsed HiAP. The American Public Health Association calls HiAP a \"gold standard\" and calls for increased HiAP infrastructure at all levels of government, increased funding for HiAP related research, practice and training, as well as establishment of best practices and a formal national research agenda. The National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO), the first national association to adopt a position statement on HiAP, advocates for HiAP as a critical method to promote health and encourages local health departments to disseminate HiAP best practices to policy makers. The National Network of Public Health Institutes praise HiAP and see themselves and their member partners as potential facilitators of HiAP implementation.\n\nThe primary critiques of HiAP have raised concerns that HiAP breeds \"health imperialism.\" They claim that by putting health concerns at the top of agendas, HiAP may appear to prioritize health as an outcome most worthy of policy makers' attention, diluting attention to other outcomes under the agencies’ authority. Proponents of HiAP have contended that health is not the only domain of societal well-being that can benefit from interdisciplinary policy making. They suggest that rather than viewing HiAP as an attempt to increase the influence of health professionals, HiAP might be used as a template for future movements such as \"economics in all policies\" and \"education in all policies\".\n\nThe IOM acknowledges many fundamental challenges to HiAP. While there are many examples where cooperation is mutually beneficial, there are also examples where the aims of one interest directly conflicts with another. For example, since the 1950s, efforts by public health professionals to limit tobacco sales have been in opposition to efforts of the tobacco industry to maintain personal freedoms for citizens and a free market environment for cigarette manufactures. Even non-controversial outcomes, such as increased income and education, can also raise contentions through ideological differences for accomplishing these goals.\n\nSome groups have also questioned the rigor with which the health impacts of non-health policies have been or can be assessed. Critics note the difficulties inherent in collecting data that provides a description of current (baseline) conditions and predicting estimates of a policy's potential impact on health. Furthermore, training and supporting individuals to conduct such assessments is a challenge.\n\nWhile implementation of HiAP can be done through many mechanisms, such as policy development, program management and service delivery, the most widely promoted and cited mechanism to implementing HiAP is HIA. HIA is defined as \"a systematic process that uses an array of data sources and analytic methods and considers input from stakeholders to determine the potential effects of a proposed policy, plan, program, or project on the health of a population and the distribution of those effects within the population\". In recent years, many have called attention to the need to make a clearer distinction between HIA and HiAP, citing HIA as one component of HiAP, a broader strategy that seeks to achieve better health outcomes, improve quality of life, and reduce health disparities.\n\nIn June 2013, Finland's Ministry of Social Affairs and the WHO hosted the 8th Global Conference on Health Promotion in Helsinki. Among its main objectives, the conference addressed the challenges facing the implementation of HiAP, encouraged the exchange of past experiences, which could lead to the design of effective pathways for intersectoral collaboration, and analyzed the impact and advancement of health promotion since the first conference on health promotion in 1987. As a contribution to the conference, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has published a book with a global scope to help policy-makers worldwide to implement HiAP. In 2017, to improve accounatbility for the pledges made by countries in the Rio Political Declaration on Social Detereminants of Health, the World Health Organization and United Nations Children's Fund called for the monitoring of intersectoral interventions on the social detereminants of health that improve health equity, noting that the World Health Organization is developing the first global monitoring system for intersectoral interventions that are known to improve health equity.\n\n"}
{"id": "39903088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39903088", "title": "Health of Towns Association", "text": "Health of Towns Association\n\nThe Health of Towns Association was formed at a meeting in Exeter on 11 December 1844 and was a key organisation in the development of public health in the United Kingdom. Its formation followed the 1843 establishment of the Health of Towns Commission, chaired by Sir Edwin Chadwick, which produced a series of reports on poor and insanitary conditions in British cities, quickly prompting the creation of Health of Towns Association branches in several major cities, including Edinburgh, Liverpool and Manchester. These national and local movements led to the passing of the Public Health Act 1848.\n"}
{"id": "3405946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405946", "title": "Hobart Freeman", "text": "Hobart Freeman\n\nHobart Freeman (October 17, 1920 – December 8, 1984) was a charismatic preacher and author, who ministered in northern Indiana and actively promoted faith healing.\n\nHobart Edward Freeman was born in Ewing, Kentucky, and grew up at St. Petersburg, Florida, where he became a successful businessman after studying at Bryant and Stratton Business Institute, despite being a high school dropout. He also contracted polio, and in later years \"... walked stiffly ... with an obvious limp.\" \n\nFreeman was converted to Christ in 1952 at the age of 31, and baptized into a congregation within the Southern Baptist Convention.\n\nShortly before Freeman received \"the baptism in the Holy Spirit\", he survived a heart attack. He \"claimed\" his healing, disposed of his medications, and almost immediately suffered a series of angina attacks, which eventually subsided.\n\nFreeman felt called to the ministry, and educated at the Georgetown College with a Bible and History major, and then at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary (A.B., Th.M.) with an Old Testament major. In 1961, he earned a Doctorate of Theology from Grace Theological Seminary in Winona Lake, Indiana with a thesis entitled \"The Doctrine of Substitution in the Old Testament\", and was appointed a professor of Hebrew and Old Testament Studies, and Philosophy and Ethics.\n\nAccording to John Davis, Freeman came to be deeply influenced by Kenneth E. Hagin, John Osteen, Kenneth Copeland, T.L. Osborn and E.W. Kenyon, who were leaders of the Word of Faith Movement. However Freeman explicitly rejected their Doctrine of Identification, which asserted that Jesus died spiritually, and he also repeatedly warned his congregation about the leaders and their teachings.\n\nFreeman's opposition to that doctrine was confirmed by Daniel McConnell. However McConnell also described Freeman as a \"renegade preacher of the Faith movement\" who \"eventually broke with the other Faith teachers\".\n\nWhile the exact details continue to be debated, it is not unreasonable to include Freeman within the orbit of the Word of Faith Movement, as he also taught that healing was \"promised in the atonement\", and in \"Faith for Healing\", where he also taught that \"Confession brings possession, for what you confess is your faith speaking.\" These latter ideas aroused much opposition within the seminary, and Freeman was asked to leave in 1963.\n\nFreeman established his own , subsequently known as \"Faith Assembly\", with Melvin Greider in 1963 in his own home at Winona Lake in nearby Kosciusko County. And for many years, worked 15–16 hours a day, seven days a week with seemingly indeflatable energy, and at one point visited Israel.\n\nWithin a few years, Freeman established a house church at Claypool in a \"pink house next to the water tower\", where the meetings followed a simple format:\n\nAfter much singing and what sounded like people quoting the Bible, a tall lanky man, who looked remarkably like Billy Graham, walked stiffly to the front with an obvious limp. He was the pastor, Dr. Hobart Freeman, and he commanded everyone's attention. He had a Ph.D. in theology, and he was teaching the last in a series of messages on the book of Revelation. He spoke for an hour or more about the end of the world and the new heavens and the new earth. He spoke with the conviction that all these things were going to happen just like the Bible said. ...\n\nThat night ... [the] singing was even livelier than early that morning, and the message was about faith. This church believed that God would really answer their prayers if they just believed. The pastor told stories of people being healed of sickness and being protected in storms by commanding the winds to stop. He believed that his leg would be healed from the polio he had had years before. ... At the end of the service, we went to the front for prayers ...\n\nFrom there the church moved to a three-car garage, then on to an old sheep barn near North Webster where they had been holding a coffeehouse ministry on Friday nights. The barn was owned by a burly, whiskery biker, Melvin Greider nicknamed Mack, a former alcoholic who had become a Christian, and was named the \"Glory Barn\" by Freeman. This ministry attracted hundreds of people, including some misfits but most were normal, serious-minded young adults. The local people referred to the Glory Barn in derision and spread exaggerated rumours about what was done there.\n\nThis was not the opinion of those who sat under this ministry:\n\nAs we sat under Dr. Freeman's ministry, we saw his genius as a teacher. His theology was as solid as a Baptist minister, but he had the fire of a Pentecostal maverick like Smith Wigglesworth or William Branham. And he had the guts of the early martyrs. His manner was bookish, but he was such a skilled teacher that he kept our attention long enough to teach us biblical theology in terms we could understand. We eventually heard him teach on every passage in the Bible, and he backed up his positions, putting them in the context of church history and current events. All the reasoning was so logical it appealed to our minds as well as our hearts.\n\nEventually both the upper and lower levels of the Glory Barn were filled to overflowing. The floorboards bent and shook dangerously as the congregation danced \"charismatic jigs\" to the praise songs. They would travel long distances and stand in long lines early each Sunday morning to ensure a good seat. The many young assistant pastors had reserved seats up front. These young pastors travelled and spoke at meetings over a wide area. There was a worldwide following through his tapes and books. There were some 15,000 in daughter congregations elsewhere in Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan, Missouri, Tennessee and Florida, as well as in England, Australia, Canada, Switzerland and Germany.\n\nFreeman also began teaching college-level classes on Saturday mornings covering Old and New Testament theology, Christian ethics, church history and even Hebrew.\n\nIn 1978 after conflict with the owner, Freeman took the congregation to a large circus tent just north of Warsaw and then on to another near Goshen throughout that summer and autumn. There was little protection from the wind and rain or the heat and cold. The nursery was a row of vans for the mothers and babies. Portable toilets were the only facilities. By winter a meeting hall had been built near North Webster in a cornfield belonging to one of the congregation. There were large bathrooms, a nursery for the mothers and babies, and a meeting room large enough to hold 2,000 people which was often overflowing. It wasn't fancy for the floors were cement, and the walls were bare.At the end of the summer of 1980 there was an epidemic of whooping cough that seemed to go through all the families of the congregation.\n\nLike many charismatic congregations, the work of the Holy Spirit was emphasized - with claims of prophesy, miraculous healings, testimonies, speaking in tongues and believers being slain in the Spirit. Freeman's teaching emphasized the deeper life in the Spirit, overcoming all things, separation from the world and its ways, trusting only in God for all things, the crucified life, and the true meaning of discipleship, as seen in the topics covered by his teaching tapes and literature.\n\nThe authority of Freeman's teaching was regularly reinforced by his \"prophecies\", published with meeting notices. \n\nFreeman's teaching also generated a social dimension. A sense of community care, cohesion, exclusiveness, superiority and persecution grew with the breadth, authority and enthusiasm of his teaching. Those with divergent doctrines, beliefs or practices either conformed or were excluded. Outside interactions grew less and were sometimes severed over these issues. Evangelical outreach shrivelled. So while legalism was denounced from the pulpit, it was practiced amongst the congregation to the extent that it has been described as \"cultist tendencies\". These teachings were comprehensive and logical, including the roles of women, music, jobs, medical science, government, the military, education, birth control, sports and holidays. Christmas was condemned as a pagan festival. A woman's role in the home as a wife and mother was seen to be the most noble and worthiest of callings. Children were regarded as a blessing from God and birth control was actively discouraged.\n\nThis led to a certain degree of uniformity within the congregation:\n\nPeople outside Faith Assembly joked that we all looked alike. A typical Faith Assembly family on their way to church consisted of a man, who was probably a construction worker, carrying a notebook and Bible under one arm and a diaper bag over his shoulder. He would be walking with his wife, who would be wearing a denim skirt and carrying a baby, with several other kids in tow. They would drive a van. \n\n\"Christianity Today\" rapported that \"According to Freeman's faith-formula theology, God is obligated to heal every sickness if a believer's faith is genuine. Faith must be accompanied by positive confession, meaning that believers must claim the healing by acknowledging that it has taken place.\" This understanding was more or less accepted by the pastorate, with the wife of one recalling that \"Dr. Freeman taught that it was always God's will to heal in response to our faith, and that God would do it without the aid of doctors or medicine.\" In consequence, doctors and medicine came to be disparaged and reviled.\n\nHobart Freeman did write that \"... we must practice thought control. We must deliberately empty our minds of everything negative concerning the person, problem, or situation confronting us ...\" And he continued writing that \"Sickness often can only be overcome by maintaining a positive confession of God's promises in the face of all apparent evidence to the contrary.\" Effectively Hobart Freeman had come to advocate faith in \"faith\", not faith in God.\n\nFrom the beginning, Freeman's congregation was the subject of controversy.\n\nAt a meeting of the County Board of Health on October 23, 1974, Barbara Clouse, the Health Nurse for Kosciusko County was concerned that the Glory Barn was a major health problem and it would only get worse. She detailed her concerns, saying that:\n\nDiabetics were not taking their insulin and pregnant women were receiving no pre-natal or post-natal care. ... They are laying dead babies and live babies next to each other on the altars and praying over them to get the live babies to bring life back to the dead ones. There was one woman in our county praying over a baby for four days before the funeral home got hold of it.\n\nClouse's concerns were later supported by local hospital statistics for 1975/6, which suggested that women from the congregation who gave birth at home were over 60 times more likely to die than those who gave birth at hospital under medical supervision. Later assessment by the US Department of Health and Human Services supported this conclusion. Deaths of several women, infants and babies were reported, and the local media blamed Freeman's teachings as medical treatment had been declined or refused.\n\nDeaths continued to be reported to the frustration of county law enforcement officials.\n\nShortly after they were publicized, the old Glory Barn burnt down in the early hours of July 4, 1980. Six people escaped from the burning two-story barn. Two youngsters, Joel and Lee, suffered burns before they were rescued from their bedrooms by their father Brendan Wahl. The boys' mother, Peggy Wahl (née Nusbaum), also claims to have been involved in their rescue, along with their daughter Penny who was not injured. Fire brigades from North Webster, Syracuse and Cromwell fought the blaze for some two hours until dawn, and the fire was subsequently investigated by the Noble County Police and Indiana State Fire Marshal. North Webster fire officials described the fire as of \"suspicious origin\". To date no culprit has been charged.\n\nIn May 1983, the \"Chicago Tribune\" ran a story on David Gilmore whose 15-month-old son, Dustin Graham, had died five years previously from an easily treatable form of meningitis. Following church teaching, Gilmore and his wife had relied solely on prayer for their son's healing. Gilmore said he knew of twelve other children who had died under similar circumstances. \"The Tribune\" further identified fifty-two deaths from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Kentucky which, they asserted, were attributable to church teaching. A few months later, ABC television's \"Nightline\" reported that pregnant women following church teaching died at a rate eight times the national average and their children at three times. \"Nightline\" further identified nineteen states and five countries where deaths had occurred which, they asserted, were attributable to church teaching.\n\nEventually, Hobart Freeman was charged with aiding and abetting one of these deaths by what was described as \"negligent homicide\". At least ninety members of the congregation died during Freeman's ministry, which Daniel McConnell described as tragic and preventable.\n\nTwo weeks before this matter was to come to court, Freeman died at his Shoe Lake home of bronchial pneumonia and congestive heart failure complicated by an ulcerated gangrenous leg, which in the weeks preceding had forced him to preach sitting down. He had refused all medical help, even to the removal of the bandages so his leg could be cleaned.\n\nPreviously in \"Faith for Healing\", Freeman had said that \"To claim healing for the body and then to continue to take medicine is not following our faith with corresponding action ... When genuine faith is present, it alone will be sufficient for it will take the place of medicines and other aids.\" \n\nFreeman's death was not reported for at least 13 hours due to an all-night prayer vigil for his resurrection. He was buried in a pine box with no public viewing and no graveside or memorial service. For some time afterwards, his wife, June Freeman (d. 29 January 2000), left his suit over the end of the bed, expecting him to one day walk in and have need of it. She soon came to accept his death as the will of God, and encouraged the congregation to persist in their faith. \n\nIn June 1985, Jack Farrell, one of the two assistant pastors hand-picked by Hobart Freeman, quit the congregation, telling \"The Body\" during the Sunday sermon, that they were still \"in bondage\" to their late pastor. Some of the congregation also grew disillusioned and left.\n\nOthers remained under the ministry of one or more of Freeman's successors. These successors include Joe and Jim Brenneman, Steve Hill, Jerry Ervin, Bruce Kinsey (d. 14 June 2008), Jim Mansfield, Gary Wilson, Terry Knafel, Jim Trout, Ron Moerchen, Don Mishler, Joe Duncan, Stan Hill, Tom Hamilton, Jim Oswalt, Dave Hardy, Harry Albright, Bill Garner, Jerry Reeder, Mark Yotter, Rick McCleay, Jeff Barnett and Tim Neely. Not all are today generally acknowledged to be faithful to Freeman's ministry. Continuing congregations include groups at Larwill, Goshen and Indianapolis Indiana, Grand Centre/Cold Lake Alberta and Shelbyville Kentucky.\n\nIn March 2015, Joshua Wilson, son of former Faith Assembly members, and Jack Pennington, a freelance filmmaker from Winston-Salem NC, announced their plans to film a documentary they called \"Children of Faith Assembly\", which was promoted on the blog \"Friendly Atheist\". However it was never produced.\n\nFreeman was the author of two books published by Moody Press of Chicago:\n\n\nHe later published another fourteen books through his own publishing house, Faith Publications of Warsaw, Indiana, later to become Faith Ministries and Publications:\n\n\nTwo tracts:\n\n\nAnd over eleven hundred teaching tapes.\n\nTwo forums are discussing Hobart Freeman, Faith Assembly and associated doctrine, namely: \n\n"}
{"id": "56503622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56503622", "title": "Isaac Henrique Sequeira", "text": "Isaac Henrique Sequeira\n\nIsaac Henrique Sequeira (1738-1816) was a Portuguese Sephardic Jewish doctor.\n\nSequeira was born in Lisbon, and educated at Bordeaux and Leiden. \n\nSequeira served as physician extraordinary to the Portuguese Embassy at the Court of St James's in London, and honorary physician extraordinary to the Portuguese prince regent.\n\nHe was a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians (LCP) and practised medicine in Mark Lane.\n\nSequeira was painted in about 1775 by Thomas Gainsborough, one of his patients, and that oil painting now hangs in Madrid's Museo del Prado.\n\nSequeira married Esther d'Aguilar (1739-1791), the daughter of Baron Diego Pereira d'Aguilar. In \"Jews and Medicine: An Epic Saga\", Frank Heynick describes him as \"wealthy and pompous\".\n\nOn 21 April 1814, his daughter Lydia died.\n\nHis descendants include Jane Sequeira, a British doctor married to the financier Jonathan Ruffer, who collects Spanish old masters and Gainsborough paintings.\n"}
{"id": "11399296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11399296", "title": "John Henryism", "text": "John Henryism\n\nJohn Henryism (JH) is a strategy for coping with prolonged exposure to stresses such as social discrimination by expending high levels of effort which results in accumulating physiological costs.\nThe term was conceived in the 1970s by African-American epidemiologist and public health researcher Sherman James while he was investigating racial health disparities between blacks and others in North Carolina.\n\nOne of the people he interviewed was a black man, who, despite being born into an impoverished sharecropper family and having only a second grade education, could read and write. The man had freed himself and his offspring from the sharecropper system, had of farmed land by age 40, but by his 50s, he had hypertension, arthritis, and severe peptic ulcer disease.\n\nHis name, John Henry Martin, and his circumstances were evocative of folk hero John Henry, an African American who worked vigorously enough to compete successfully with a steam powered machine but died as a result of his effort.\n\nJames' hypothesis was that African Americans sometimes attempted to control their environment through similar attempts at superhuman performance. The expression of this superhuman performance may not necessarily involve a steel hammer. It may involve working harder at the office or working long to prove one’s worth. The end results, however, may still involve the same negative consequences that befell John Henry. \n\nJames developed a scale for measuring JH based on agreement with a series of statements such as these:\n\n\nIn his seminal 1983 study, 132 southern, working class Black men between the ages of 17 and 60 years were administered the John Henryism scale. The scale was used to measure the extent to which these men believed that they could control their environment through hard work and determination. In accordance with the author's hypothesis, subjects who scored low on educational variables and high on John Henryism had significantly higher levels of diastolic blood pressure than those who scored above the median on both measures. James believed that educational achievement and the John Henryism construct score may have a positive correlation with autonomic arousal in African Americans when these individuals have encounters with everyday stressors.\n\nMen who scored higher on the John Henry scale were not found to have statistically significant differences in mean systolic blood pressure or mean diastolic blood pressure when compared to their lower scoring counterparts, however a significant effect did emerge in variation in percentage of hypertension. African American males who were categorized as low or medium SES (socio economic status) and had high levels of John Henryism, had a significantly higher % of hypertension than their counterparts with low levels of John Henryism , however high SES individuals with high levels of John Henryism were found to have lower levels of hypertension than their low John Henryism, high SES counterparts. \n\nStudies have found that African-Americans with high scores are less likely to be current or former smokers than African-Americans with low JH scores. African-American college students with high JH scores were less likely to have carried a weapon on campus for self-defence, more likely to have been arrested for driving under the influence, and more likely to have missed a class due to alcohol use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339626", "title": "Kozlovichi Mental Asylum", "text": "Kozlovichi Mental Asylum\n\nKozlovichi Mental Asylum was an institution for the mentally ill in Randilovshchina, Grodno Province, Belarus. The wooden construction housing the building was built in 1905 and destroyed by fire on October 12, 2003. The fire killed thirty patients.\n\nAlthough President Alexander Lukashenko's spokeswoman, Natalya Petkevich, said that a patient (among those who died in the fire), described as a pyromaniac who had twice previously tried to set fire to the building, was responsible for the blaze, government investigators were also looking into staff carelessness as a possible cause. Staff members, some of whom had been sleeping in a separate building on the campus, apparently tried to put the fire out and rescue patients themselves, waiting to call the fire department.\n"}
{"id": "25966179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25966179", "title": "LifeSharers", "text": "LifeSharers\n\nLifeSharers was a nonprofit United States-based organization which functioned as an organ donation network. By agreeing to donate their organs to the network, they received priority in receiving organs from other members of the network.\n\nIt was founded by Dave Undis in 2002, who believed that the best way to encourage increased organ donation was to ensure those willing to donate receive priority in receiving organs. But it has been criticized by those who believe that decisions of priority should be based on purely medical criteria.\n\nOn March 21, 2016 a post on the Lifesharers blog announced that Lifesharers had shut down.\n"}
{"id": "61788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61788", "title": "List of diseases (R)", "text": "List of diseases (R)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"R\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53468800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53468800", "title": "List of people with color blindness", "text": "List of people with color blindness\n\nThis is a list of people with color blindness, meaning they have a decreased ability to see color or differences in color.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "47100699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47100699", "title": "Medicines and Medical Devices Agency of Serbia", "text": "Medicines and Medical Devices Agency of Serbia\n\nThe Medicines and Medical Devices Agency of Serbia (; ; abbr. ALIMS) is the Serbian national authority responsible for regulation and surveillance of the development, manufacturing and sale of human and veterinary drugs and medical devices. Its task is also to ensure that both individual patients and healthcare professionals have access to safe and effective medicinal products.\n\nMedicines and Medical Devices Agency of Serbia was founded by the Serbian Law on Medicines and Medical Devices in 2004, thus replacing previously existing Medicines Bureau of Yugoslavia (established in 1948) and Institute for testing and control of medicines of Serbia (established in 1960).\n\nThe Medicines and Medical Devices Agency of Serbia is a government body under the aegis of the Serbian Ministry of Health. Its operations are largely financed through fees. Approximately 180 people work at the agency; most are pharmacists and doctors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3791612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3791612", "title": "Midwives College of Utah", "text": "Midwives College of Utah\n\nThe Midwives College of Utah, formerly the Utah School of Midwifery, is an institution of direct-entry midwifery training. Founded in 1980, it is one of the largest and longest-standing direct-entry (out-of-hospital) midwifery programs in the nation. It has been accredited through the Midwifery Education Accreditation Council (MEAC) since 1996, which is approved by the U.S. Secretary of Education as a nationally-recognized accrediting agency. The school is also accepted by the California Medical Board for state licensure.\n\nThe college offers a Bachelor of Science in Midwifery and a Master of Science in Midwifery. Students are eligible to take the North American Registry of Midwives (NARM) exam upon graduation, and to receive the designation of Certified Professional Midwife (CPM).\n"}
{"id": "20533789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20533789", "title": "Mort pour la France", "text": "Mort pour la France\n\nMort pour la France is a term used in the French legal system for people who died during a conflict, usually in service of the country.\n\nThe term is defined in L.488 to L.492 (bis) of the \"Code des pensions militaires d'invalidité et des victimes de guerre\". It encompasses members of the French military forces who died in action or from an injury or an illness contracted during the service during the First and Second World Wars, the Indochina and Algeria Wars, and fighting in Morocco and the Tunisian War of Independence, and to French civil casualties killed during these conflicts.\n\nFrench copyright law gives a special 30 years extension of copyright to creative artists declared \"Mort pour la France\" over the usual 70 years post mortem (article L. 123-10).\n\nList of writers officially declared \"Mort pour la France\".\n\n\nList of composers officially declared \"Mort pour la France\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10402738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10402738", "title": "National Healthcare Group", "text": "National Healthcare Group\n\nThe National Healthcare Group (NHG) is a Singapore group of healthcare institutions. The group was formed in 2000 and operates several hospitals, specialty centres, and polyclinics. Tan Tock Seng Hospital is the largest hospital in the group and serves as the tertiary hospital for the cluster.\n\nTan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) was established in 1844 and named after its founder, Mr Tan Tock Seng, a philanthropist. Over the years, TTSH became Singapore’s second largest acute care general hospital with over 1,500 beds. It is located in Novena, Singapore and its campus includes the Communicable Disease Centre, Foot Care & Limb Design Centre and Tan Tock Seng Hospital Rehabilitation Centre.\n\nTTSH has 27 clinical departments including infectious diseases, geriatric medicine, rehabilitation medicine, respiratory medicine, rheumatology, allergy and immunology. It is also a major referral centre for emergency medicine, diagnostic radiology, ophthalmology (eye), otorhinolaryngology (ear, nose and throat), orthopaedic surgery, gastroenterology, general medicine and general surgery. The hospital also encompasses two major specialty centres in rehabilitation medicine and communicable diseases.\n\nIn March 2003 when Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) struck in Singapore, Tan Tock Seng Hospital was designated as the screening and treatment centre for SARS. Today, the hospital continues to be a centre of research for infectious diseases.\n\nKhoo Teck Puat Hospital (KTPH) is a general hospital in Yishun that was opened in 2010. It has 660 beds, and is located adjacent to the 430-bed Yishun Community Hospital (YCH). Both hospitals are grouped together as a regional health campus called Yishun Health Campus.\n\nThe Institute of Mental Health is the first and only psychiatric hospital in Singapore. It was founded in 1928, starting with some 1,000 patients. This was the first mental hospital in Singapore. Departments include clinical psychology, nursing, occupational therapy, and medical social work. As of 2015, it is a 2,000-bed acute tertiary psychiatric hospital situated on a 25-hectare campus at Buangkok Green Medical Park. It conducts psychiatric, rehabilitative and counselling services for children, adolescents, adults, and the elderly. There are 50 wards for inpatients and seven Specialist Outpatient Clinics. It is also a national training centre for psychiatrists and mental health professionals.\n\nNational Healthcare Group Polyclinics is the primary healthcare arm of the NHG. It has six polyclinics in the central and northern parts of Singapore. They provide treatment for acute medical conditions, management of chronic diseases, women and child health services and dental care, as well as health promotion and disease prevention, early and accurate diagnosis, and disease management. It is also a training centre for family medicine physicians.\n\nThe National Skin Centre is an outpatient specialist dermatology centre. It handles a patient load of about 1,000 patients daily. It started its operations on 1 November 1988 after taking over the treatment of skin diseases from Middle Road Hospital. It provides specialised dermatological services, trains medical students and postgraduates, and undertakes research in dermatology and conducts continuing medical education for doctors and paramedical personnel.\n\nApart from the provision of healthcare through healthcare institutions, the NHG also operates several other divisions in other areas such as education and ancillary health services.\n\nNational Healthcare Group College was established on 19 July 2002 to educate, train and raise the professionalism of NHG staff. It is structured into four institutes, namely the Institute of Healthcare Leadership, Institute of Clinical Education, Institute of Healthcare Quality and the Institute of Professional Training.\n\nNHG Diagnostics was founded in 2000. It provides laboratory and radiography services to primary healthcare providers with imaging centres in Singapore, Indonesia, and Vietnam, and a range of diagnostics services at polyclinics, community hospitals, private medical centres, and mobile fleets. Services include general x-ray, mammography, ultrasound, electrocardiography, spirometry and laboratory services. It also provides teleradiology services, laboratory and radiology management, and professional consultancy services in setting up of diagnostics services and clinical laboratories. In 2006, NHG received the National Infocomm Award Merit Award from Infocomm Development Authority for its teleradiology initiative.\n\nNHG Pharmacy manages the pharmacy and retail pharmacies at the nine polyclinics and in retail centres, and also provides medication management services to intermediate and long term care facilities. The pharmacies also provide smoking cessation clinics, anti-coagulation clinics, and hypertension-diabetes-lipidaemia clinics led by pharmacists to control chronic diseases. NHG Pharmacy also allows patients to refill their prescriptions online, and choose to have their uncollected medicines delivered to them, or collected from a designated polyclinic. \n\nEstablished in April 2007, the Primary Care Academy provides training and skills upgrading for primary care doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and ancillary staff.\n\nNHG-Johns Hopkins Singapore Institute is a co-branded venture between NHG and Johns Hopkins Medicine International that provides oncology services in Singapore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39574232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39574232", "title": "Naugle v. Philip Morris USA, Inc.", "text": "Naugle v. Philip Morris USA, Inc.\n\nNaugle v. Philip Morris was a landmark 2009 court case in which a jury awarded the plaintiff Lucinda Naugle $300 million. The award included $56.6 million in compensatory damages for medical expenses and $244 million in punitive damages. At the time, the verdict was the largest award given to an individual suing a tobacco company, and was featured on NBC, ABC, 60 Minutes, and \"The New York Times\". In 2012, the verdict amount for punitive damages was reduced to $36.8 million.\n\nIn 1968, Lucinda Naugle, an office manager from Fort Lauderdale, Florida and sister of former Ft. Lauderdale mayor, Jim Naugle, began smoking at the age of 20. She quit when she was 45. As a result of smoking, Naugle suffered from severe emphysema.\n\nAt trial, Naugle claimed Philip Morris directly concealed the fact that cigarettes were harmful to health and addictive. Philip Morris was also sued on the basis that the cigarettes manufactured and sold by the company were unreasonably dangerous. The case was an Engle-progeny case, resulting from the Engle v. Liggett class action suit in 2006, where the Florida Supreme Court upheld a jury’s finding that cigarettes were dangerous to health and addictive.\n\nNaugle v. Phillip Morris was tried in Broward County Circuit Court, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, and a verdict was returned by the jury on November 20, 2009. The plaintiff was represented by Robert W. Kelley of Kelley/Uustal PLC.\n\nIn 2010, a final judgment by Circuit Court Judge Jeffrey Streitfeld reduced the punitive damages to $36.8 million in a post-verdict motion. Philip Morris USA later appealed this award, stating that the punitive damages were still excessive. The appeal was considered at the 4th District Court of Appeal in West Palm Beach, which upheld Philip Morris USA’s liability in the case, but decided that a new jury would consider the final amount to be awarded to the plaintiff.\n\nRobert W. Kelley\n"}
{"id": "52849233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52849233", "title": "New York City AIDS Memorial", "text": "New York City AIDS Memorial\n\nThe New York City AIDS Memorial is a public memorial built \"to honor New York City's 100,000+ men, women and children who have died from AIDS, and to commemorate and celebrate the efforts of the caregivers and activists.\" It is the first major space that is dedicated to the epidemic in New York City. The memorial was opened on World AIDS Day on December 1, 2016. The design was developed by the efforts of nearly 500 architects who came up with the idea of an 18-foot steel canopy as the gateway to the new St. Vincent’s Hospital Park in Greenwich Village.\n\nThe New York City AIDS Memorial is located on the triangular traffic island formed by 12th Street, Greenwich Avenue and Seventh Avenue in Greenwich Village. The memorial is a gateway to a new public park adjacent to the former St. Vincent's Hospital, which housed the city's first and largest AIDS ward and which is often considered the symbolic epicenter of the disease, figuring prominently in \"The Normal Heart\", \"Angels in America\", and other important pieces of literature and art that tell the story of the plague years in New York.\n\nThe memorial consists of an high steel canopy covering about . The structure is composed by triangles ranging from scalene to equilateral. Three triangles serve as legs to connect two large triangles at the top, so that it looks like an open airplane. Each of the triangles is filled with 16 smaller triangles and all have lines like air vents that light up in the night.\n\nIn November 2011, in collaboration with magazine Architectural Record and industry database Architizer, the NYC AIDS board announced an international design competition to manufacture memorial park. Brooklyn-based Studio a+i, led by Mateo Paiva, Lily Lim and Esteban Erlich, won the contest and became memorial park architects.The memorial also features the work of visual artist Jenny Holzer whose idea was to engrave a granite panel with lines from Walt Whitman's \"Song of Myself\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9649756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9649756", "title": "Orthopaedic Research Society", "text": "Orthopaedic Research Society\n\nThe Orthopaedic Research Society (ORS) is a professional, scientific and medical organization focused on orthopaedic research. The stated mission of the ORS is to advance orthopaedic research through education, collaboration, communication and advocacy. The ORS aims to increase resources for research, and awareness of the importance and impact of such research on orthopaedic patients and the public.\n\nThe \"Journal of Orthopaedic Research\" is the official journal of ORS.\n\nCollaboration has been at the cornerstone of the Orthopaedic Research Society since it was founded in 1954.\n\nIn 1940, Dr. Alfred R. Shands, who would later become one of the founding members of the ORS served as the chair of the Research Committee of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. The committee conducted a survey of its member which indicated that just over 180 members were conducting some type of research.\n\nIn the 1950s, several musculoskeletal investigators expressed a desire to have a forum for presenting their work and receiving constructive criticism. Dr. Phillip D. Wilson, a member of the Academy, along with several others, met in San Francisco and proposed the idea of starting an organization focused solely on musculoskeletal research. This idea gained unanimous support from the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons at their Annual Meeting in 1951.\n\nIn 1952, the first meeting of the founding members of the ORS took place. At this first meeting, Dr. Philip D. Wilson created a draft constitution and set of by-laws for the fledgling society. It was determined that the purpose of the society was to “encourage and coordinate investigation and research in basic principles or clinical problems related to the special field of Orthopaedic Surgery.” Due to the unexpected death of Dallas B. Phemister, MD, who had agreed to take on the role of chairman, the formal organization of the society was delayed.\n\n1954 marked the first official meeting of the group at the Palmer House in Chicago under the Chairmanship of Dr. Wilson. At this first meeting there were twenty-nine people in attendance. Cultivating the relationship between clinicians and scientists while providing them with opportunities to come together and share ideas was the driving factor in establishing the society. “The close relationship of between clinicians and basic scientists would help ensure the prominent role of orthopaedic surgeons in delivering care to patients with injuries and diseases of the musculoskeletal system,” explained Eugene R. Mindell, MD who served as president of the ORS from 1972 – 1973.\n\nThe ORS continues to grow and evolve. Membership has grown to more than 4,100 members from across the globe. Once a role only held by surgeons, in 1982 the ORS elected Van C. Mow as the first PhD president. Currently, Presidents are elected from each of the three disciplines represented in the membership: clinicians, biologists, and engineers.\n\nORS is organized into following specific areas or sections \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2128713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128713", "title": "Policosanol", "text": "Policosanol\n\nPolicosanol is the generic term for a mixture of long chain alcohols extracted from plant waxes. It is used as a dietary supplement.\n\nPolicosanol was originally derived from sugar cane but the chemicals can also be isolated from beeswax, cereal grains, grasses, leaves, fruits, nuts, and seeds of many foods. Plant waxes consist of very long chain fatty acids that have been esterified to very long chain alcohols. Policosanols are very long chain alcohols with carbon backbones ranging from 24 to 34 carbons. \n\nThe first policosanol supplements were produced by Dalmer Laboratories in Cuba; studies conducted and published by that group have found that policosanol is safe and effective as a lipid-lowering agent. However these studies were small, and efforts by groups outside of Cuba have failed to replicate these results.\n\nA meta-analysis in 2005 concluded that human policosanol consumption is safe and well tolerated and is effective at lowering the blood cholesterol. As of 2010, they were marketed as lipid-lowering agents in the Caribbean, Central and South America, and Canada. Furthermore, another meta-analysis was published in 2018 with 22 studies and 1886 subjects showed policosanol could improve dyslipidemia with raising HDL. The blood pressure lowering effect of Cuban policosanol has been shown in an animal model using spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and a human trial.\n\n"}
{"id": "7455546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7455546", "title": "Regional odontodysplasia", "text": "Regional odontodysplasia\n\nRegional odontodysplasia or odontogenesis imperfecta is an uncommon developmental abnormality of teeth, usually localized to a certain area of the mouth. The condition is nonhereditary. There is no predilection for race, but females are more likely to get regional odontodysplasia. The enamel, dentin, and pulp of teeth are affected, to the extent that the affected teeth do not develop properly. These teeth are very brittle. On radiographs the teeth appear more radiolucent than normal, so they are often described as \"ghost teeth\". Most cases are considered idiopathic, but some cases are associated with syndromes, growth abnormalities, neural disorders, and vascular malformations.\nPermanent teeth usually show effects of regional odontodysplasia if the deciduous tooth was affected. Many of these teeth do not erupt, and those that do have an increased risk of caries and periapical inflammation.\n\nTreatment and prognosis are usually based upon keeping these teeth and preserving the alveolus. For erupted teeth, endodontics is an option if the tooth is devitalized and restorable. For unerupted teeth, function can be restored with a removable partial denture until all major growth has been completed and a final restoration can be placed.\n"}
{"id": "2722664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2722664", "title": "Robert Evan Kendell", "text": "Robert Evan Kendell\n\nRobert Evan Kendell, (28 March 1935 − 19 December 2002) was a Welsh psychiatrist. He was Chief Medical Officer of Scotland 1991−96, President of the Royal College of Psychiatrists 1996−99.\n\nHe was born on 28 March 1935 in Yorkshire, the son of teachers and spent some of his childhood in Wales. He was educated at the Mill Hill School in London then won a scholarship to Peterhouse, Cambridge, where he was awarded a Double First in the Natural Sciences Tripos. After further study at the King's College Hospital Medical School and a brief stint in internal medicine he joined the Maudsley Hospital and trained under Sir Aubrey Lewis. Kendell was later awarded the Gaskell Medal.\n\nAged 38 he was appointed to the chair of psychiatry in Edinburgh. In 1986 he was made the Dean of the Medical School and during his four years in this post he supervised a period of expansion. In 1991 he was appointed the Chief Medical Officer of Scotland. In 1997 he was elected the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists and served for a three-year term. As Chief Medical Officer, he worked to build awareness of the influence of diet and smoking on health, as well as contributing to the responses to Bovine spongiform encephalopathy and HIV/AIDS.\n\nHe published more that 200 papers during his career, continuing after he had retired from employment. Much of his work focussed on the classification and diagnosis of mental disorders\n\nHe was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 2002. He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE). He was awarded the Paul Hoch Medal of the American Psychopathological Association; and the Marce Medal. He was a member of the World Health Organisation's Expert Advisory Panel on Mental Health for 12 years.\n\nOn 19 December 2002 he collapsed and died later that day, of an unsuspected brain tumour.\n"}
{"id": "8537305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8537305", "title": "Serbsky Center", "text": "Serbsky Center\n\nThe Serbsky State Scientific Center for Social and Forensic Psychiatry () is a psychiatric hospital and Russia's main center of forensic psychiatry. In the past, the institution was called the Serbsky Institute (). The institution garnered negative publicity because many Soviet dissidents were examined there and then sent to psychiatric hospitals.\n\nThe Institute started in 1921, and was named after Russian psychiatrist Vladimir Serbsky. One of the main stated purposes of the institute was to assist in forensic psychiatry for the criminal courts. Moscow Serbsky Institute conducts more than 2,500 court-ordered evaluations per year.\n\nThe Institute also claimed leadership in studying different types of psychosis, brain trauma, alcoholism and drug addiction. One celebrity treated for an addiction was Vladimir Vysotsky. The Serbsky Center is now headed by Zurab Kekelidze (), the chief psychiatrist of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Russian Federation, whose dissertation was on sluggish schizophrenia. Kekelidze is known to believe that homosexuality in some cases is a mental disorder and has not been excluded from the list of mental disorders.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, dissidents were often declared mentally ill. In almost all cases, dissidents were officially examined at the Serbsky Central Research Institute, which evaluated individuals accused under political articles. Typically declared mentally ill, indictees were sent for involuntary treatment to special hospitals in the MVD system. In the 1960s and 1970s, the procedure became public and evidence of “psychiatric terror” began to appear. The majority of incarcerations date from the late 1960s to the early 1980s.\n\nAlexander Esenin-Volpin, Viktor Nekipelov, Suren Arakelov and Zviad Gamsakhurdia were among the victims. Gen. Pyotr Grigorenko was determined as insane in the Serbsky Institute because he \"was unshakably convinced of the rightness of his actions\" and held \"reformist ideas.\"\n\nIn the 1960s Soviet psychiatry, particularly Serbsky Institute Director Dr. Andrei Snezhnevsky, introduced the concept of \"sluggish schizophrenia\", a special form of the illness that supposedly affects only social behavior, with no effect on other traits: \"most frequently, ideas about a \"struggle for truth and justice\" are formed by personalities with a paranoid structure\", according to the Serbsky Institute professors. Most prisoners, in Viktor Nekipelov’s words, characterized the Serbsky Institute professor Daniil Lunts as \"no better than the criminal doctors who performed inhuman experiments on the prisoners in Nazi concentration camps.\"\n\nThe Center underwent many changes after the Soviet Union collapsed. Psychiatry is not used as a weapon against dissenters, according to Center Director Tatyana Dmitrieva. The rooms where Soviet dissidents were imprisoned were changed to treat alcohol and drug addicts.\n\nMany psychiatric trials were pursued in order to protect high-ranking officials involved in rapes and murders, such as Yuri Budanov (he was convicted only after more than three years of trials).\n\nHowever, Yuri Savenko, the head of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia, alleged that \"practically nothing has changed. They have no shame at the institute about their role with the Communists. They are the same people, and they do not want to apologize for all their actions in the past.\" Attorney Karen Nersisyan agrees: \"Serbsky is not an organ of medicine. It’s an organ of power.\" Savenko claimed that the institution was not professionally run and thus violated the doctor's main commandment. Spurious diagnoses declared symptom-free individuals to be mentally ill (for example, Budanov or General Pyotr Grigorenko), and the reverse (for example, major D. Evsyukov, actor F. Yalovega and diplomat Platon Obukhov).\n\nIn the early 1990s, Serbsky Director Tatyana Dmitrieva apologized for the earlier abuses. Her words were widely broadcast abroad but were published only in the St. Petersburg newspaper \"Chas Pik\" within the country. However, in her 2001 book \"Aliyans Prava i Milosediya\" (\"The Alliance of Law and Mercy\"), Dmitrieva wrote that there were no psychiatric abuses and certainly no more than in Western countries. Moreover, the book makes the charge that professor Vladimir Serbsky and other intellectuals were wrong not to cooperate with the police department in preventing revolution and bloodsheds and that the current generation is wrong to oppose the regime. In December 2012, Mikhail Vinogradov, an expert of the Serbsky Center, stated \"Do you talk about human-rights activists? Most of them are just unhealthy people, I talked with them. As for the dissident General Grigorenko, I too saw him, kept him under observation, and noted oddities of his thinking. But he was eventually allowed to go abroad, as you know… Who? Bukovsky? I talked with him, and he is a completely crazy character. But he too was allowed to go abroad! You see, human rights activists are people who, due to their mental pathology, are unable to restrain themselves within the standards of society, and the West encourages their inability to do so.\"\n\nIn the 1990s and the 21st century the Serbsky Institute, now calling itself the Serbsky Center, was again employed as an instrument of oppression. Under Yeltsin (1993-1999), it collaborated with the Russian Orthodox Church against \"non-traditional\" religions, other Christian denominations and breakaway Orthodox churches or liberal Orthodox congregations. Under Putin (2000 to present), it has made controversial diagnoses for individuals engaged in political dissent and protest.\n\nFrom 1994 onwards, the use of psychiatry was expanded to control religious dissenters and others and a special group for “study of the negative influence of religious groups” was created at the Serbsky Center, led by Professor Fyodor Kondratyev.\n\nKondratyev’s group started supervising trials all over the country. This led to legal actions that, for all intents and purposes, put people on trial for sorcery. The \"Independent Psychiatric Journal\" (Nezavisimiy Psikhiatricheskiy Zhurnal) documented such trials, demonstrating that the charges of “gross harm to mental health” were not substantiated. The Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia repeatedly recorded Kondratyev's activities and statements as the author of the pseudo-scientific theory of \"sectomania\", and documented the false charges for which he was responsible.\n\nKondratyev's special department at the Serbsky Center “for studying destructive cults” closely collaborated with the anti-cult activist Alexander Dvorkin, who enjoyed some approval within the Russian Orthodox Church. Dvorkin ranks as “totalitarian sects\" both the followers of the painter and Theosophist Nikolai Rerikh (1874-1947) and the religious communities of liberal Orthodox priests Yakov Krotov and Georgy Kochetkov. In Yury Savenko's words, “when a psychiatrist-academician (Dmitrieva, Sidorov) or an expert-psychologist of the Institute of Psychology of the Russian Academy of Sciences relies on the works of Dvorkin and Hassan, which are not scientific in nature, it is a symptom of degradation.” \n\nIn 2014, experts of the Serbsky Center received medical documents from a psychoneurological out-patients' clinic about the mental health condition of Alexander Dvorkin. After studying them, they concluded that he was in need of constant supervision by a psychiatrist and should take psychotropic drugs.\n\nKondratyev not only denied accusations that he himself was ever engaged in Soviet abuses of psychiatry: he stated publicly that the very concept of Soviet-era \"punitive psychiatry\" was nothing more than\n\"the fantasy [vymysel] of the very same people who are now defending totalitarian sects. This is slander, which was [previously] used for anti-Soviet ends, but is now being used for anti-Russian ends.\"\n\nThe denial by the Serbsky Center of the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes in the 1960–1980s and the open rehabilitation of its leader, director academician Georgi Morozov, are evidence of the restoration of psychiatry as a tool of oppression.\n\nIn 2004, proponents of mental health reform failed to prevent the effort by the doctors of the Serbsky Institute to roll back reforms in the landmark Russian Mental Health Law. Over five years, from 1998 to 2003, the Serbsky Center made three proposals to amend the Law, but the IPA and general public managed to successfully challenge these amendments, and they were finally abandoned. According to the IPA, these amendments would have impaired patients’ rights.\n\nIn 2012, Ukrainian psychiatrist Semyon Gluzman said that the Serbsky Institute still remained a leading service for Russian forensic psychiatric examinations. Serbsky Institute continues to conduct many court-ordered evaluations with hotly disputed results.\n\n\nOn 8 October 2013, a verdict was announced in the case of Mikhail Kosenko, who took part in the 6 May 2012 protest march at Moscow's Bolotnaya Square. The court sent Kosenko for open-ended treatment to a psychiatric hospital.\n\nWith other witnesses, Alexander Podrabinek, former Soviet dissident and Radio France Internationale commentator, testified that Kosenko had stood next to him and had not scuffled with police. Serbsky specialists concluded that Kosenko \"presented a danger to himself and others\" and \"required compulsory treatment.\" This conclusion ignored both his previous treatment over many years and his diagnosis by other psychiatrists, and the fact that he was not once cited for aggressive or suicidal behavior during the 16 months of his pretrial detention in Butyrka prison.\n\nThe Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia stated: \n\n\"On the basis of a conversation that lasted less than one hour, the specialists made the far more serious diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia instead of the diagnosis of sluggish neurosis-like schizophrenia that Kosenko was treated for over the course of 12 years.\"\n\nThere were protests from international and local NGOs and human rights organisations against the unlimited term of in-patient treatment imposed on Mikhail Kosenko. On 6 June 2014 a court in the Moscow Region ruled that he should continue psychiatric treatment, but as an out-patient.\n\nAccording to Russian psychiatrist Emmanuil Gushansky, the Serbsky Center exercises undue administrative and corporate influence on its young and insufficiently qualified staff. The commission system of forensic psychiatric examinations leads to \"collective irresponsibility\" in which no individual is accountable for a particular diagnosis or other recommendation. For example, the Serbsky Center declared a killer to be insane and offered a diagnosis of \"acute stress\". In fact, the killer had maintained communication with his victim, remembered the conflict with his victim. During a drunken household brawl he managed to find a shotgun in his basement, shoot his victim, clean and hide the weapon, removing his fingerprints, and then flee the scene. In accord with the Center's recommendation, he was declared insane and released from confinement.\n\nIn 2004, Yuri Savenko stated that the law on state expert activity and the introduction of the profession of forensic expert psychiatrist destroyed adversary-based examinations and that the Serbsky Center had monopolized forensic examination, which it had never done in the Soviet era. Formerly, the court could include any psychiatrist in a commission of experts, but the new law allowed the court only to choose an institution. The head of the institution assigns the experts to a commission for each case. Experts are certified only after working in a state institution for three years. The Director of the Serbsky Center was also the head of the Center's forensic psychiatry department, which is the only one in the country.\n\nAccording to Savenko, the Serbsky Center has long labored to institutionalize its monopolistic position as the country's main psychiatric institution. These efforts led to a considerable drop in the quality of expert reports. The Serbsky Center further attempted to eliminate the adversarial character of court proceedings and to degrade the role of specialist reviewers. Lyubov Vinogradova claimed that there has been a diminution in patients' rights because independent experts are now excluded from evaluations and court proceedings.\n\nOn 28 May 2009, Savenko wrote to the then President of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev an open letter, in which Savenko asked Medvedev to submit to the State Duma a draft law prepared by the IPA to address the sharp drop in the level of forensic psychiatric examinations, which Savenko attributed to the lack of competition within the sector and its increasing nationalization. The letter said that expert reports now often dropped entire sections and failed to substantiate findings, that findings contradicted the descriptive sections, and that many statements are contrary to generally accepted scientific practice. The letter added that courts made no attempt to assess the expert report for coherence and consistency and do not check findings for accuracy, completeness and objectivity. In the spring of 2009, IPA attacked an expert report whose descriptive part was distorted, paving the way for other falsifications; four of the case's six examinations were carried out in the Serbsky Center.\n\nOn 15 June 2009, the working group chaired by Tatyana Dmitrieva sent the Supreme Court of Russia a joint proposal to outlaw appeals against state forensic expert reports and prohibit lawsuits that appealed against the reports. The proposal claimed that the appeals were filed “without regard for the scope of the case” and that appeals should be made “only together with the sentence.” Savenko claimed that all professional errors and omissions became unchallengeable because they were the basis of the sentence.\n\nThe application was considered in the paper “Current legal issues relevant to forensic-psychiatric expert evaluation” by E.Y. Shchukina and S.N. Shishkov. It attacked the admissibility of appeals against expert reports without regard for the scope of the case. According to lawyer Dmitry Bartenev, while talking about “the reports”, the paper mistakenly conflates the reports with actions of the experts (or the institution) and asserts the impossibility of “parallel” examinations. However, abuse of rights and legitimate interests of citizens, including trial participants, may be a subject for a separate appeal.\n\nIn 2010, when the outpatient forensic-psychiatric examination of Yulia Privedyonnaya was carried out in the Sebsky Center, its experts asked her the question “What do you think of Putin?”. Savenko called the question inappropriate, unseemly and indelicate.\n\nIn 1997, the Center established Russian Journal of Psychiatry dedicated to the issues of social and forensic psychiatry.\n\n\nIn 1976, Viktor Nekipelov published in samizdat his book \"Institute of Fools: Notes on the Serbsky Institute\" documenting his personal experience at Serbsky Psychiatric Hospital. In 1980, the book was translated and published in English. Poet and dissident Viktor Nekipelov was arrested in 1973 and sent to Section 4 of the Serbsky Institute. The evaluation lasted from 15 January to 12 March 1974. He was judged sane, tried and sentenced to two years' imprisonment. He described the doctors and other patients; most of the latter were ordinary criminals feigning insanity in order to avoid prison camps. According to IPA President Savenko, Nekipelov’s book accurately describes the era of Soviet punitive psychiatry. The book was published in Russia in 2005. After reading the book, Donetsk psychiatrist Pekhterev concluded that allegations against the psychiatrists were self-serving and false. According to Robert van Voren, Pekhterev misses the main point: while living conditions in the Serbsky Institute were not bad compared with living conditions of the Gulag, the Serbsky Institute was the departure point for \"patients\" who were dispatched to specialized psychiatric hospitals in Chernyakhovsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Kazan and Blagoveshchensk where they experienced forced administration of drugs, beatings and other forms of arbitrary punishment. Some died during the \"treatment\", including Alexey Nikitin.\n\nIn the 1983 novel \"Firefox Down\" by Craig Thomas, captured American pilot Mitchell Gant is imprisoned in a KGB psychiatric clinic \"associated with the Serbsky Institute\", where he is drugged and forced him to reveal the location of the Firefox aircraft, which he has stolen and flown out of Russia.\n\nIn the 1998 TV series \"Seven Days\", episode 16 \"There's something about Olga\", the FSB recruits a female patient of the Serbsky Center (incorrectly located in the city of Minsk, Belarus).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48943845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48943845", "title": "Shooting of Taufik Zahar", "text": "Shooting of Taufik Zahar\n\nThe shooting of Taufik Zahar took place around 4.36 am on 31 May 2015, near the Shangri-La Hotel in Singapore where the Shangri-La Dialogue was being held; police officers fatally shot Mohamed Taufik bin Zahar, a 34-year-old logistics mover. Taufik, who was driving a red Subaru Impreza and was carrying two passengers, had encountered a roadblock set up in relation to the dialogue. When instructed to open the Subaru's boot for checks, Taufik accelerated the vehicle towards police officers, crashing through concrete barriers erected by the police, and continued driving the vehicle despite repeated warnings to stop. Anticipating threats to their safety, police officers opened fire at the vehicle and shot Taufik dead through the windscreen.\n\nAfter the incident, the two passengers, Mohamed bin Ismail and Muhammad Syahid Mohamed Yasin, were convicted of drug offences and sentenced to 8 and 7 years' jail respectively, and 3 strokes of the cane each.\n\nThis is the fourth police shooting in Singapore in 15 years. Taufik's wife, Nassida Nasir, opined that death was disproportionate punishment for Taufik, but the public was generally supportive of the actions of the police. The Singapore government has also defended and commended the actions of the police officers. A coroner's inquiry into the death of Taufik is scheduled.\n"}
{"id": "38652348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38652348", "title": "Smile mask syndrome", "text": "Smile mask syndrome\n\n, abbreviated SMS, is a psychological disorder proposed by professor Makoto Natsume of Osaka Shoin Women's University, in which subjects develop depression and physical illness as a result of prolonged, unnatural smiling. Natsume proposed the disorder after counselling students from the university in his practice and noticing that a number of students had spent so much time faking their smiles that they were unaware that they were smiling even while relating stressful or upsetting experiences to him. Natsume attributes this to the great importance placed on smiling in the Japanese service industry, particularly for young women.\n\nSmiling is an important skill for Japanese women working in the service industry. Almost all service industry companies in Japan require their female staff to smile for long periods of time. Natsume says that his female patients often talk about the importance of smiling when the topic of the conversation is on their workplace. He relates examples of patients saying that they felt their smile had a large effect on whether they were hired or not, and that their superiors had stressed the effect that good smiles had on customers. According to Natsume, this atmosphere sometimes causes women to smile unnaturally for so long that they start to suppress their real emotions and become depressed.\n\nJapanese author Tomomi Fujiwara notes that the demand for a common smile in the workplace emerged in Japan around the 1980s, and blames the cultural changes wrought by the Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 1983, for popularizing the demand for an obligatory smile in the workplace.\n\nThe smile mask syndrome has also been identified in Korea. Korean writer Bae Woo-ri noted that smiling gives one a competitive advantage over the others, and has become a necessary attribute of many employees, just like a \"neat uniform\". Yoon-Do-rahm, a psychology counselor, compared the current society, which is full of smile-masks, to a clown show; both are characterized by plentiful, yet empty and fake, smiles.\n\nSmile mask syndrome can cause physical problems as well as mental ones. Natsume relates that many of his patients developed muscle aches and headaches as a result of prolonged smiling, and says that these are similar to the symptoms of repetitive strain injury.\n"}
{"id": "6977148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6977148", "title": "Sokushinbutsu", "text": "Sokushinbutsu\n\nIt is believed that many hundreds of monks tried, but only 24 such mummifications have been discovered to date. There is a common suggestion that Shingon school founder Kukai brought this practice from Tang China as part of secret tantric practices he learned, and that were later lost in China. \n\nThere is the existence of at least one \"self-mummified\" 550-year-old corpse: that of a Buddhist monk named Sangha Tenzin in a northern Himalayan region of India, visible in a temple in Gue village, Spiti, Himachal Pradesh. This mummy was discovered in 1975 when the old stupa preserving it collapsed and it is estimated to be from about the 14th century, well after Islamic rule had arrived in India and Buddhism had practically vanished there. The monk was likely a Tibetan dzogpa-chenpo practitioner and similar mummies have been found in Tibet and East Asia. The preservation of the mummy for at least 5 centuries was possible due to the aridity of the area and cold weather.\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, the \"Sokushinbutsu\" ascetic practices of Shugendō were likely inspired by Kūkai – the founder of Shingon Buddhism, who ended his life by reducing and then stopping intake of food and water, while continuing to meditate and chant Buddhist mantras. Ascetic self-mummification practices are also recorded in China, but are associated with the \"Ch'an\" (Zen Buddhism) tradition there. Alternate ascetic practices similar to \"Sokushinbutsu\" are also known, such as public self-immolation (auto cremation) practice in China, such as that of Fayu Temple in 396 CE and many more in the centuries that followed. This was considered as evidence of a renunciant bodhisattva.\n\nA mountain-dwelling version of Buddhism called Shugendō emerged in Japan as a syncretism between Vajrayana, Shinto and Taoism in the 7th century, which stressed ascetic practices. This tradition continued through the Edo period. One of its ascetic practice was \"Sokushinbutsu\" (or \"Sokushin jobutsu\"), connoting mountain austerities in order to attain Buddha-nature in one's body. This practice was perfected over a period of time, particularly in the Three Mountains of Dewa region of Japan, that is the Haguro, Gassan and Yudono mountains. These mountains remain sacred in the Shugendō tradition to this day, and ascetic austerities continue to be performed in the valleys and mountain range in this area.\n\nIn medieval Japan, this tradition developed a process for \"Sokushinbutsu\", which a monk completed over about 3,000 days to ten years. It involved a strict diet called \"mokujikigyo\" (literally, \"eating a tree\"). The diet abstained from any cereals, and relied on pine needles, resins and seeds found in the mountains, which would eliminate all fat in the body. Increasing rates of fasting and meditation would lead to starvation. The monks would slowly reduce then stop liquid intake, thus dehydrating the body and shrinking all organs. The monks would die in a state of \"jhana\" (meditation) while chanting the \"nenbutsu\" (a mantra about Buddha), and their body would become naturally preserved as a mummy with skin and teeth intact without decay and without the need of any artificial preservatives. Many Buddhist \"Sokushinbutsu\" mummies have been found in northern Japan and estimated to be centuries old, while texts suggest that hundreds of these cases are buried in the stupas and mountains of Japan. These mummies have been revered and venerated by the laypeople of Buddhism.\n\nOne of the altars in the Honmyō-ji temple of Yamagata prefecture continues to preserve one of the oldest mummies - that of the \"sokushinbutsu\" ascetic named Honmyōkai. This process of self-mummification was mainly practiced in Yamagata in Northern Japan between the 11th and 19th century, by members of the Japanese Vajrayana school of Buddhism called Shingon (\"True Word\"). The practitioners of \"sokushinbutsu\" did not view this practice as an act of suicide, but rather as a form of further enlightenment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3619064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3619064", "title": "South African Medical Research Council", "text": "South African Medical Research Council\n\nThe South African Medical Research Council is a para-statal medical research organisation in South Africa. The current president is professor Glenda Gray. The South African Medical Research Council was established in 1969.\n\nIt is a member of the Innovative Vector Control Consortium.\n"}
{"id": "25495197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25495197", "title": "Swedish Association for Sexuality Education", "text": "Swedish Association for Sexuality Education\n\nThe Swedish Association for Sexuality Education (RFSU), () is a Swedish nonprofit organization that works with public opinion formation on sexual and reproductive health and rights as well as information and education about sexuality and relationships. One of RFSU's main issues is the right to free abortion. The current Secretary-General is Maria Andersson.\n\nRFSU was founded February 24, 1933 by, among others, Elise Ottesen-Jensen, Gunnar Inghe and Hanna Lundin. Ottesen-Jensen was chairman from its inception until 1959, and has come to be strongly associated with the organization, whose journal, \"Ottar\", was named after her.\n\nRFSU works with information, education and advocacy by organizing courses, conferences and debates. Moreover, the RFSU carries an extensive international work with similar organizations in other countries. RFSU is the Swedish national affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation. \n\nRFSU is the owner of RFSU AB, the former owner of Etac (company) AB. RFSU AB sells condoms, lubricants, pregnancy tests and sex toys. Etac is a Swedish multinational group, that develops, manufactures and sells products for people with reduced mobility. Since 2011 Etac has been fully owned by Swedish Nordstiernan. \n\n"}
{"id": "239918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239918", "title": "Tap water", "text": "Tap water\n\nTap water (\"running water\", \"city water\", \"town water\", \"municipal water\", etc.) is water supplied to a tap (valve). Its uses include drinking, washing, cooking, and the flushing of toilets. Indoor tap water is distributed through \"indoor plumbing\", which has existed since antiquity but was available to very few people until the second half of the 19th century when it began to spread in popularity in what are now developed countries. Tap water became common in many regions during the 20th century, and is now lacking mainly among people in poverty, especially in developing countries.\n\nTap water is often culturally assumed to be drinking water, especially in developed countries. Usually it is potable, although water quality problems are not rare. Household water purification methods such as water filters, boiling, or distillation can be used when tap water's potability is doubted. The application of technologies (such as water treatment plants) involved in providing clean water to homes, businesses, and public buildings is a major subfield of sanitary engineering. Calling a water supply \"tap water\" distinguishes it from the other main types of fresh water which may be available; these include water from rainwater-collecting cisterns, water from village pumps or town pumps, water from wells, or water carried from streams, rivers, or lakes (whose potability may vary).\n\nPublicly available treated water has historically been associated with major increases in life expectancy and improved public health. Water-borne diseases are vastly reduced by proper sewage and fresh water availability. Providing tap water to large urban or suburban populations requires a complex and carefully designed system of collection, storage, treatment and distribution, and is commonly the responsibility of a government agency, often the same agency responsible for the removal and treatment of clean water.\n\nSpecific chemical compounds are often taken out of tap water during the treatment process to adjust the pH or remove contaminants, and chlorine may be added to kill biological toxins. Local geological conditions affecting groundwater are determining factors for the presence of various metal ions, often rendering the water \"soft\" or \"hard\".\n\nTap water remains susceptible to biological or chemical contamination. In the event of contamination deemed dangerous to public health, government officials typically issue an advisory regarding water consumption. In the case of biological contamination, residents are usually advised to boil their water before consumption or to use bottled water as an alternative. In the case of chemical contamination, residents may be advised to refrain from consuming tap water entirely until the matter is resolved.\n\nIn many areas a compound of fluoride is added to tap water in an effort to improve dental health among the public. In some communities \"fluoridation\" remains a controversial issue. (See water fluoridation controversy.)\n\nThis supply may come from several possible sources.\n\nDomestic water systems have been evolving since people first located their homes near a running water supply, such as a stream or river. The water flow also allowed sending waste water away from the residences.\n\nModern indoor plumbing delivers clean, safe, potable water to each service point in the distribution system. It is important that the clean water not be contaminated by the waste water (disposal) side of the process system. Historically, this contamination of drinking water has been the largest killer of humans.\n\nTap water can sometimes appear cloudy, often mistaken for mineral impurities in the water. It is usually caused by air bubbles coming out of solution due to change in temperature or pressure. Because cold water holds more air than warm water, small bubbles will appear in water. It has a high dissolved gas content that is heated or depressurized, which reduces how much dissolved gas the water can hold. The harmless cloudiness of the water disappears quickly as the gas is released from the water.\n\nDomestic hot water is provided by means of water heater appliances, or through district heating. The hot water from these units is then piped to the various fixtures and appliances that require hot water, such as lavatories, sinks, bathtubs, showers, washing machines, and dishwashers.\n\nEverything in a building that uses water falls under one of two categories; fixture or appliance. As the consumption points above perform their function, most produce waste/sewage components that will require removal by the waste/sewage side of the system. The minimum is an air gap. See cross connection control & backflow prevention for an overview of backflow prevention methods and devices currently in use, both through the use of mechanical and physical principles.\n\nFixtures are devices that use water without an additional source of power.\n\nPotable water supply systems are composed of pipes, fittings and valves.\n\nThe installation of water pipes can be done using the following plastic and metal materials:\n\n\n\nOther materials, if the pipes made from them have been let into circulation and the widespread use in the construction of the water supply systems.\n\nFor many centuries, water pipes were made of lead, because of its ease of processing and durability. The use of lead pipes was a cause of health problems due to ignorance of the dangers of lead on the human body, which causes miscarriages and high death rates of newborns. Lead pipes, which were installed mostly in the late 1800s in the US, are still common today, much of which are located in the Northeast and the Midwest. Their impact is relatively small due to the fouling of pipes and stone cessation of the evolution of lead in the water; however, lead pipes are still detrimental. Most of the lead pipes that exist today are being removed and replaced with the more common material, copper or some type of plastic.\n\nRemnants of pipes in some languages are the names of the experts involved in the execution, reparation, maintenance, and installation of water supply systems, which have been formed from the Latin word 'lead', English word 'plumber', French word, 'plombier'.\n\nBefore a water supply system is constructed or modified, the designer and contractor need to consult the local plumbing code and obtain a building permit prior to construction. Even replacing an existing water heater may require a permit and inspection of the work. The US national standard for potable water piping guidelines is NSF/ANSI 61 certified materials. NSF/ANSI also sets standards for certifying polytanks, though the FDA approves the materials. National and local fire codes should be integrated in the design phase of the water system too to prevent \"failure to comply with regulations\" notices. Some areas of the United States require on-site water reserves of potable and fire water by law.\n\nWastewater from various appliances, fixtures, and taps is transferred to the waste and sewage removal system via the sewage drain system to treatment plants. This system consists of larger diameter piping, water traps, and ventilation to prevent toxic gases from entering the living space.\n\nWater flow through a tap can be reduced by inexpensive small plastic flow reducers. These restrict flow between 15 and 50%, aiding water conservation and reducing the burden on both water supply and treatment facilities.\n\nIn modern Western society, levels of contaminants found in tap water vary for every household and plumbing system but tend to be low. Two general conceptions with popular appeal are:\nBoth lack scientific support. In reality, both tap water and bottled water are usually safe, although in both cases exceptions can occur. The University of Cincinnati recently completed a Tap Water Quality Analysis, funded by PUR, for major US cities. Its findings show generally safe water quality in most regions. While most US cities have what is considered safe tap water, contaminants ranging from bacteria to heavy metals are present in some tap water, and occasionally serious violations of tap water standards have been well-publicized, such as the severe 1993 Cryptosporidium outbreak in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, which led to several deaths and around 400,000 illnesses (see: Milwaukee Cryptosporidium outbreak). Regarding bottled water quality perceptions and reality, in 1999, the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) released controversial findings from a 4-year study on bottled water. The results of this study claimed that one-third of the waters tested contained levels of contamination—including synthetic organic chemicals, bacteria, and arsenic—in at least one sample that exceeded allowable limits under either state or bottled water industry standards or guidelines. However, the bottled water industry was quick to dispute the claim, saying bottled water is one of the most highly regulated food products under the FDA regulatory authority and that the FDA system worked extremely well when coupled with the International Bottled Water Association's Model Code and unannounced inspections.\n\nUsing tap water (whether straight from the tap or filtered first) is generally considered to be better for one's environmental impact than habitually drinking bottled water, because the bottling and distribution of bottled water consumes resources and produces emissions (electricity and oil to make the bottles, diesel fuel to truck the filled bottles through the supply chain, truck exhaust, powerplant emissions, bottle recycling, and so on). In comparison, the water treatment plant activities were going to happen anyway in either case, but the other costs and effects are avoided in the tap water case.\n\nMany municipalities in the United States are making an effort to use tap water over bottled water on government properties and events. However, others voted the idea down, including voters in the state of Washington, who repealed a bottled water tax via citizen initiative.\n\nJames Workman, author of the book \"Heart of Dryness: How the Last Bushmen Can Help Us Endure the Coming Age of Permanent Drought\" and co-founder of SmartMarkets says that he doesn't believe that \"tap water is bad and bottled water is good\". Rather he cites differences in quality regulations and standards. \"Bottled water is often tap water put through another filter and not held to the same quality regulations as public utility water is.\"\n\nChlorine is a disinfectant which is added to tap water in the United States. Chlorine can leave organic material like trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids in the water. The level of chlorine found is small, 1L of chlorinated water gives 0.2 mg of chlorine, which has not been found to cause any health problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "17046875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17046875", "title": "Ukrain", "text": "Ukrain\n\nUkrain (; also called celandine) is the trademarked name of a semi-synthetic substance derived from the plant \"Chelidonium majus\" and promoted as a drug to treat cancer and viral infections, including HIV and hepatitis. It was created in 1978, by a Ukrainian chemist Vasyl Novytskyi (). Ukrain is named after the nation of Ukraine and is produced by the Austrian company Nowicky Pharma.\n\nAccording to the American Cancer Society and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, there is no evidence that Ukrain is an effective cancer treatment.\n\nIn 2005, Edzard Ernst led a review into evidence of the effectiveness of Ukrain. Although the review found evidence suggesting the drug was effective, it also concluded that \"numerous caveats prevent a positive conclusion\". Commenting on the review some years later, Ernst wrote on his blog that the results they were examining had seemed \"too good to be true\" – and on investigation the trials were very small in size, often seemed to include Novytskyi himself, and had significant methodological flaws. However, despite the cautious conclusion given, \"this article became much cited. ... [Novytskyi] must have been delighted\".\n\nThe Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center say that clinical trials have yet to prove safety and effectiveness of Ukrain. The American Cancer Society stated that, as of 2013, \"available scientific evidence does not support claims that celandine is effective in treating cancer in humans\". It may however be responsible for some adverse side-effects including hepatitis and allergic skin reactions.\n\nUkrain is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. On September 4, 2012, several people including Vasyl Novytskyi, the drug's developer, were arrested in Austria for distributing the drug under suspicion of commercial fraud. Novytskyi appeared in Vienna regional court again in January 2015 for selling Ukrain, earning an estimated 1.1 million euros through fraud by changing labels on expired vials. In March 2015, two co-defendants of Novytskyi were exonerated for commercial fraud, while legal proceedings continue for Novytskyi.\n\nFrom October 2013 to April 2014, a licensed naturopath in Tucson, Arizona, Michael Uzick, was using Ukrain in his practice to treat cancer patients. He was reported to the Arizona authorities by Britt Marie Hermes, who discovered the drug was being illegally imported while working for Uzick. Uzick was given a letter of reprimand by the Arizona Naturopathic Physicians Medical Board, which framed Uzick's misconduct as having \"obtained the nutrient Ukrain not from a manufacturer registered with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35207017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35207017", "title": "University Hospitals of the Ruhr-University of Bochum", "text": "University Hospitals of the Ruhr-University of Bochum\n\nThe University hospitals of the Ruhr University of Bochum, German \"Universitätsklinikum der Ruhr-Universität Bochum\", abbreviated \"UK RUB\" is a syndicate of six university hospitals and associated facilities of the Ruhr University of Bochum. Founded in 2008 by the merger of formally independent hospitals the UK RUB is now a major provider of health in the Ruhr Metropolitan Region treating over 400,000 patients per year with a strong commitment to research and teaching.\n\nThe \"Universitätsklinikum der Ruhr-Universität Bochum\" emerged from the Bochum Model, where several non state-owned hospitals in Bochum and the surrounding metropolitan area were appointed as teaching hospitals. This appointment was first intended to be a temporary solution to financial shortages and political problems in the development of the medical faculty in Bochum in the 1970s, especially after the Universitätsklinikum Essen was spun off from the Ruhr University in 1972 and integrated into the newly formed Universität-Gesamthochschule Essen.\n\nIn 1998 the cooperation between appointed hospitals and Ruhr University was permanently established. This was in September 2008 the basis for the foundation of the \"Verband Klinikum der Ruhr-Universität Bochum\" with coordinating tasks in clinical, scientific and didactical fields.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12630869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12630869", "title": "Verus Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Verus Pharmaceuticals\n\nVerus Pharmaceuticals was a privately held pharmaceutical company based in San Diego, California, USA. It was founded in November 2002 by three former Dura Pharmaceuticals executives, Bob Keith, Peter Schineller and Cam Garner, with an initial focus on the treatment of asthma, allergies and related diseases and conditions, specifically in children. Verus is best known for its development and manufacturing of Twinject, the first (and currently only) two-dose epinephrine autoinjector. The Twinject was latter licensed to Paladin Labs for manufacturing and distribution in Canada (released in September 2006.) The licence for manufacturing and distribution in Europe (and option for worldwide distribution) was sold to UCB.\n\nVerus Pharmaceuticals was dissolved in March 2008 after selling its Twinject product to Sciele Pharma for $29 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47078223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47078223", "title": "White House Iftar dinner", "text": "White House Iftar dinner\n\nThe White House Iftar dinner is an annual reception held at the White House and hosted by the U.S. President and the First Lady to celebrate the Muslim month of Ramadan. The annual tradition started in 1996 when Hillary Clinton hosted a Ramadan Eid celebration dinner. The modern iteration of the reception is attended by prominent members of the Muslim American community including politicians, community leaders and students. \n\nThomas Jefferson held the first White House dinner with a Muslim while hosting Sidi Soliman Mellimelli, an envoy of Beylik of Tunis, on December 9, 1805, during the First Barbary War. Jefferson adjusted the timing of the meal to after sunset to accommodate Sidi Soliman Mellimelli's Ramadan tradition.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton continued the tradition, as did George W. Bush who hosted an iftar dinner at the White House in 2001. Bush subsequently continued the dinners every year of his two terms. Barack Obama hosted his first Ramadan dinner in 2009, and subsequently every year of his presidency.\n\nIn 2017, Donald Trump broke the two decade old White House tradition by opting not to host an Iftar dinner at the White House\n\n"}
