{"id": "13438893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13438893", "title": "A Directory of Important Wetlands in Australia", "text": "A Directory of Important Wetlands in Australia\n\nA Directory of Important Wetlands in Australia (DIWA) is a list of wetlands of national importance to Australia. Intended to augment the list of wetlands of international importance under the Ramsar Convention, it was formerly published in report form, but is now essentially an online publication. Wetlands that appear in the \"Directory\" are commonly referred to as \"DIWA wetlands\" or \"Directory wetlands\".\n\nUsing criteria agreed in 1994, a wetland can be considered “nationally important” if it satisfies at least one of the following criteria:\n\nThe directory uses a classification system consisting of the following three categories (i.e. A, B and C) which are further sub-divided into a total of 40 different wetland types:\n\n"}
{"id": "12114728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12114728", "title": "Alan Rogers Guides", "text": "Alan Rogers Guides\n\nThe Alan Rogers Guides were started in Britain in 1968 by camp enthusiast Alan Rogers. The guides place utmost importance on the quality of the campsites; campsites cannot pay to be in the guide. Travel guides have been published every year (with the exception of 2017) since 1968. In 2018, Alan Rogers Guides celebrated its 50th anniversary.\n\nThe guides rely on a team of Site Assessors, all of whom are experienced caravanners or motorcaravanners, to visit and recommend parks. The popularity of the guides is based their impartiality and supported by the enthusiasm, diligence and integrity of the Site Assessors.\n\nThe most important criteria used when inspecting and selecting parks is quality. The Assessors consider and evaluate:\n\n\nThe guides try to cater for a wide variety of preferences; from those seeking a small peaceful campsite in the heart of the countryside, to visitors looking for an 'all singing, all dancing' park in a popular seaside resort.\n\nThe first guide (Alan Rogers' selected sites for caravanning and camping in Europe) sold for four shillings (20p). In the introduction to the first guide Alan wrote \"I would like to stress that the camps which are included in this book have been chosen entirely on merit and no payment of any sort is made by them for their inclusion.\"\n\nAlan Rogers continued to expand until 1986 when Alan Rogers, aged 70, decided to seek retirement and the publishing company, then known as Deneway Guides and Travel Ltd, was sold to close friends of Rogers'. The Mark Hammerton Group acquired the company in 2001 shortly after Alan Rogers' death just a year earlier.\n\nClive Edwards, who purchased the company in the mid 1980s, remembers the negotiations with Alan Rogers clearly. \"The actual business negotiations were conducted quickly. What Alan was really concerned about was that we would maintain the philosophy and the impartiality of the Guides. Following Alan's retirement we found that he was always willing to offer us advice and guidance\".\n\nIn 2004 the business moved to its current premises in the Kent countryside.\n\nThe Mark Hammerton Group was acquired by Caravan and Motorhome Club under the brand Alan Rogers Travel Group along with its subsidiary company Belle France. The guides continue to recommend campsites based on strict criteria and independent assessments. Sites are added where appropriate and removed if standards have fallen.\n\nThe guides have been influential in the rise in popularity of camping; for example, drawing attention to the number of overseas sites that were providing mains electricity hook-ups. Alan Rogers suggested that British caravanners and motor caravanners should take advantage of this by having their units wired to take mains electricity; in 1968 no standard British caravan was supplied with mains electricity wiring.\n\nOne measure of the guides' success is that many of the things he called for in the original guide have now become reality:\n\nMany of the sites personally recommended by Rogers' in 1968 - are still recommended in the current guide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2220269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220269", "title": "Alcuin Club", "text": "Alcuin Club\n\nThe Alcuin Club is an Anglican organization devoted to preserving or restoring church ceremony, arrangement, ornament, and practice in an orthodox manner. It was founded in 1897, with its first publication, \"English Altars\" by W. H. St. John Hope, appearing in 1899. The club is dedicated to the \"Book of Common Prayer\" and conformity to its exact rubric. In the 20th century, the club was active in the debate over the rewriting of the \"Book of Common Prayer\" for the 1920 revision. Its influence faded somewhat after the first part of the century and it is now dedicated to studying ceremony of all Christian churches. Nonetheless, the club's members are active in the liturgical researches of the Anglican churches. Membership in the club is now around 600, with half being in the United Kingdom and many in the United States.\n\nThe Alcuin Club selects works on liturgy and ceremony and hagiography every year to include in its collections. These collections represent significant scholarship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49549915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49549915", "title": "Annales florentini", "text": "Annales florentini\n\nThe Annales florentini (Florentine annals, Italian \"Annali fiorentini\") are the earliest annals of the medieval commune of Florence. There are two sets of annals overlapping in coverage. The \"Annales florentini primi\" cover the period 1110–1173, while the \"Annales florentini secundi\" cover 1107–1247. A later collection also called the \"Annales florentini\" covers the period 1288–1431.\n\nThe \"Annales florentini primi\" constitute the earliest, tentative attempt to keep a yearly record of events in Florence. It was discovered on the back (verso) of the 72nd leaf (folio) of Codex 772 in the Vatican Palatine Library by the librarian, who brought it to the attention of scholars. It does not contain a record for every year between 1110 and 1173. There are only eighteen records in several different handwritings and not arranged chronologically. The writing is clearly from the twelfth century.\n\nThe \"Annales florentini secundi\" date to the thirteenth century. There are 46 records between the years 1107 and 1247. They are found in a manuscript originating in the monastery of Santa Maria Novella, now No. 776 E. A. in the Suppressed Monasteries series of the Magliabecchian Library, now part of the National Library at Florence. This same manuscript contains a list of Florentine consuls and \"podestà\" from 1196 to 1267.\n\n"}
{"id": "4419746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4419746", "title": "Anti-Hindu sentiment", "text": "Anti-Hindu sentiment\n\nAnti-Hindu sentiment is a negative perception or any sentiment against the practice and practitioners of Hinduism.\n\nIndividuals in the Indian diaspora have begun to protest that Western scholars \"distort their religion and perpetuate negative stereotypes\", which began with Macaulayism in India. Historically, such stereotypes were promulgated during the British Raj by several Indophobes in South Asia as a means to aggrandize sectarian divisions in Indian society, part of the divide and rule strategy employed by the British. Such allegations have seen a rise with the Hindu right using them for politics.\n\nThe Indian Caste System, a social stratification system in South Asia which has been criticized for its discriminatory problems, is often seen as a uniquely 'Hindu' issue rather than a cultural one. This is a common stereotype, as adherents of other religions such as Islam, Sikhism and Christianity have kept the practice of caste segregation in India (for details, see Caste system among South Asian Muslims).\n\nChristian missionaries denigrate selected features of Hindu practice—most notably image worship, sati, and child marriage (the first two were also criticized by Muslims).\n\nAccording to the religious dialogue activist P. N. Benjamin, some christian evangelists denigrate Hindu gods and abuse Hindu rituals as barbaric, and such attitudes have caused tensions between religious communities.\n\nFalse allegations have been made that Hindus and Hindu organisations are attacking Christians in a systemic manner in India when the perpetrators were not even Hindus.\n\nAkbaruddin Owaisi, a leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party in Hyderabad has been charged several times for hate speeches denigrating Hindu gods and inciting violence against Hindus. Owaisi had mocked Hindu cremation by saying \"when you (Hindus) die, you become air after burning and go astray.\" Owaisi had talked in derogatory terms about heritage places of India including Ayodhya, Ajanta caves and Ellora caves.\n\nA Muslim preacher apologised for insulting Hinduism in 2014, after an uproar.\n\nHindus are considered to be Kafirs by Muslims.\n\nUnder the reign of Muhammad bin Tughlaq, the Muslim cleric Ziauddin Barrani wrote several works, such as the \"Fatwa-i-Jahandari\", which gave him a reputation as a \"fanatical protagonist of Islam\" and wrote that there should be \"an all-out struggle against Hinduism\", advocating a militant and dogmatic religiosity. He developed a system of religious elitism to that effect.\n\nHistorian Hayavadana C. Rao wrote about Tippu in his encyclopaedic work on the History of Mysore. He asserted that Tippu's \"religious fanaticism and the excesses committed in the name of religion, both in Mysore and in the provinces, stand condemned for all time. His bigotry, indeed, was so great that it precluded all ideas of toleration\". He further asserts that the acts of Tippu that were constructive towards Hindus were largely political and ostentatious rather than an indication of genuine tolerance.\n\nHe also corresponded with the Sringeri Shankaracharya – expressing grief and indignation at a raid by Maratha bandit horsemen (called Pindari), which killed many and plundered the monastery of its valuable possessions, patronised the Melkote temple (which has gold and silver vessels with inscriptions indicating that they were presented under the Sultan), for which a Kannada decree was issued that the Shrivaishnava (Hindu sectary) invocatory verses there should be recited in the traditional form. Tipu Sultan also presented four silver cups to the Lakshmikanta Temple at Kalale and probably presented the Ranganatha temple at Srirangapatana with seven silver cups and a silver camphor burner. The Sringeri Sharada Peetham has in its safe possession some 24 letters written by the Sultan who also sent a silver palanquin and a pair of silver chauris to the Sarada Temple as well.\n\nTipu sent a letter on 19 January 1790 to the Governor of Bekal, Budruz Zuman Khan. It says:\nAlthough the attitudes of Muslim ruler Tippu Sultan have been criticized as being anti-Hindu by Indian historians, left-wing historians note that he had an egalitarian attitude towards Hindus and was harsh towards them only when politically expedient. Former IAS Officer, Praxy Fernandes has mentioned in his book that Tipu Sultan displayed reverence to the head of the Hindu Shringeri Mutt, by\n\nIrfan Habib and Mohibbul Hasan argue that these early British authors had a strong vested interest in presenting Tippu Sultan as a tyrant from whom the British had \"liberated\" Mysore. This assessment is echoed by Brittlebank in her recent work.\n\nDuring the British rule of the Indian subcontinent, several evangelical Christian missionaries spread anti-Hindu propaganda as a means to convert Hindus to Christianity. Examples include missionaries like Abbe J.A. Dubois, who wrote \"Once the devadasis' temple duties are over, they open their cells of infamy, and frequently convert the temple itself into a stew. A religion more shameful or indecent has never existed amongst a civilized people.\"\n\nIn Charles Grant's highly influential \"Observations on the ...Asiatic subjects of Great Britain\" (1796), Grant criticized the Orientalists for being too respectful to Indian culture and religion. His work tried to determine the Hindu's \"true place in the moral scale\", and he alleged that the Hindus are \"a people exceedingly depraved\".\n\nThe Goa Inquisition was a colonial era Portuguese institution established by the Roman Catholic Holy Office between the 16th- and 19th-century to stop and punish heresy against Christianity in South Asia. The institution persecuted Hindus through the colonial era Portuguese government and Jesuit clergy in Portuguese India. It was established in 1560, briefly suppressed from 1774 to 1778, continued thereafter and finally abolished in 1820. The Inquisition punished those who had converted to Catholicism, but were suspected by Jesuit clergy of practising their previous religion in secret. Predominantly, the persecuted were accused of crypto-Hinduism.\n\nThe extremist Taliban regime in Afghanistan, which enforced strict sharia (Islamic law), announced plans in May 2001 to require Hindus (and Sikhs) to wear identifying badges in public, part of the Taliban's campaign to segregate and repress \"un-Islamic and idolatrous segments\" of Afghan society. At the time, about 500 Hindus and 2,000 Sikhs remained in Afghanistan.\n\nThe anti-Hindu decree was seen as reminiscent of the Nazi Germany law requiring Jews to wear an identifying yellow badge. The order prompted international outrage, and was denounced by the Indian and U.S. governments, as well as by Abraham Foxman of the Anti-Defamation League. Following international pressure, the Taliban regime dropped the badge plans in June 2001.\n\nPolitical leaders frequently fall back on \"Hindu bashing\" in an attempt to appeal to extremist sentiment and to stir up communal passions. In one of the most notorious utterances of a mainstream Bangladeshi figure, the then Prime Minister Khaleda Zia, while leader of the opposition in 1996, declared that the country was at risk of hearing \"uludhhwani\" (a Bengali Hindu custom involving women's ululation) from mosques, replacing the azaan (Muslim call to prayer) (e.g., see Agence-France Press report of 18 November 1996, \"Bangladesh opposition leader accused of hurting religious sentiment\").\n\nEven the supposedly secular Bangladesh Awami League is not immune from this kind of scare-mongering. The current prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, was alleged to have accused Bangladeshi Hindu leaders in New York of having divided loyalties with \"one foot in India and one in Bangladesh\". Successive events such as this have contributed to a feeling of tremendous insecurity among the Hindu minority.\n\nThe fundamentalists and right-wing parties such as the Bangladesh Nationalist Party and Jatiya Party often portray Hindus as being sympathetic to India, making accusations of dual loyalty and allegations of transferring economic resources to India, contributing to a widespread perception that Bangladeshi Hindus are disloyal to the state. Also, the right wing parties claim the Hindus to be backing the Awami League.\n\nAs widely documented in international media, Bangladesh authorities have had to increase security to enable Bangladeshi Hindus to worship freely following widespread attacks on places of worship and devotees.\n\nOn 28 February 2013, the International Crimes Tribunal sentenced Delwar Hossain Sayeedi, the Vice President of the Jamaat-e-Islami to death for the war crimes committed during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. Following the sentence, activists of Jamaat-e-Islami and its student wing Islami Chhatra Shibir attacked the Hindus in different parts of the country. Hindu properties were looted, Hindu houses were burnt into ashes and Hindu temples were desecrated and set on fire. While the government has held the Jamaat-e-Islami responsible for the attacks on the minorities, the Jamaat-e-Islami leadership has denied any involvement. The minority leaders have protested the attacks and appealed for justice. The Supreme Court of Bangladesh has directed the law enforcement to start \"suo motu\" investigation into the attacks. US Ambassador to Bangladesh express concern about attack of Jamaat on Bengali Hindu community. The violence included the looting of Hindu properties and businesses, the burning of Hindu homes, rape of Hindu women and desecration and destruction of Hindu temples. According to community leaders, more than 50 Hindu temples and 1,500 Hindu homes were destroyed in 20 districts. On May 5, 2014, A mob of almost 3,000 attacked Hindu households and a temple in eastern Bangladesh after two youths from the community allegedly insulted the Islamic prophet, Muhammad on Facebook.\n\nIn Pakistan, anti-Hindu sentiments and beliefs are widely held among many sections of the population. There is a general stereotype against Hindus in Pakistan. Hindus are regarded as \"miserly\". Also, Hindus are often regarded as \"Kaffirs\" (lit. \"unbelievers\") and blamed for \"causing all the problems in Pakistan\". Islamic fundamentalist groups operating within Pakistan and neighboring Afghanistan have broadcast or disseminated anti-Hindu propaganda among the masses, referring to Hindus as \"Hanood\" ('Hindu' is singular and \"Hanood\" is plural form in Urdu) blaming them for \"collaborating with the foreigners\" against the people of the region.\n\nAt the time of Pakistan's creation the 'hostage theory' had been espoused. According to this theory the Hindu minority in Pakistan was to be given a fair deal in Pakistan in order to ensure the protection of the Muslim minority in India. However, Khawaja Nazimuddin, the 2nd Prime Minister of Pakistan stated: \"I do not agree that religion is a private affair of the individual nor do I agree that in an Islamic state every citizen has identical rights, no matter what his caste, creed or faith be\".\n\nSeparate electorates for Hindus and Christians were established in 1985—a policy originally proposed by Islamist leader Abul A'la Maududi. Christian and Hindu leaders complained that they felt excluded from the county's political process, but the policy had strong support from Islamists.\n\nThe Muttahida Majlis-i-Amal (MMA), a coalition of Islamist political parties in Pakistan, calls for the increased Islamization of the government and society, specifically taking an anti-Hindu stance. The MMA leads the opposition in the national assembly, held a majority in the NWFP Provincial Assembly, and was part of the ruling coalition in Balochistan. However, some members of the MMA made efforts to eliminate their rhetoric against Hindus.\n\nThe public school curriculum in Pakistan was Islamized during the 1980s. The government of Pakistan claims to undertake a major revision to eliminate such teachings and to remove Islamic teaching from secular subjects. The bias in Pakistani textbooks was also documented by Y. Rosser (2003). She wrote that\nThe bias in Pakistani textbooks was studied by Rubina Saigol, K. K. Aziz, I. A. Rahman, Mubarak Ali, A. H. Nayyar, Ahmed Saleem, Y. Rosser and others.\n\nA study by Nayyar & Salim (2003) that was conducted with 30 experts of Pakistan's education system, found that the textbooks contain statements that seek to create hate against Hindus. There was also an emphasis on Jihad, Shahadat, wars and military heroes. The study reported that the textbooks also had a lot of gender-biased stereotypes. Some of the problems in Pakistani textbooks cited in the report were:\nA more recent textbook published in Pakistan titled \"A Short History of Pakistan\" edited by Ishtiaq Hussain Qureshi has been heavily criticized by academic peer-reviewers for anti-Hindu biases and prejudices that are consistent with Pakistani nationalism, where Hindus are portrayed as \"villains\" and Muslims as \"victims\" living under the \"disastrous Hindu rule\" and \"betraying the Muslims to the British\", characterizations that academic reviewers fond \"disquieting\" and having a \"warped subjectivity\".\n\nAmeer Hamza, a leader of the banned terrorist group Lashkar-e-Toiba, wrote a highly derogatory book about Hinduism in 1999 called \"Hindu Ki Haqeeqat\" (\"Reality of (a) Hindu\"); he was not prosecuted by the Government.\n\nAccording to the Sustainable Development Policy Institute report 'Associated with the insistence on the Ideology of Pakistan has been an essential component of hate against India and the Hindus. For the upholders of the Ideology of Pakistan, the existence of Pakistan is defined only in relation to Hindus, and hence the Hindus have to be painted as negatively as possible' A 2005 report by the National Commission for Justice and Peace a non profit organization in Pakistan, found that Pakistan Studies textbooks in Pakistan have been used to articulate the hatred that Pakistani policy-makers have attempted to inculcate towards the Hindus. 'Vituperative animosities legitimise military and autocratic rule, nurturing a siege mentality. Pakistan Studies textbooks are an active site to represent India as a hostile neighbour' the report stated. 'The story of Pakistan's past is intentionally written to be distinct from, and often in direct contrast with, interpretations of history found in India. From the government-issued textbooks, students are taught that Hindus are backward and superstitious.' Further the report stated 'Textbooks reflect intentional obfuscation. Today's students, citizens of Pakistan and its future leaders are the victims of these partial truths'.\n\nAn editorial in Pakistan's oldest newspaper Dawn commenting on a report in The Guardian on Pakistani Textbooks noted 'By propagating concepts such as jihad, the inferiority of non-Muslims, India's ingrained enmity with Pakistan, etc., the textbook board publications used by all government schools promote a mindset that is bigoted and obscurantist. Since there are more children studying in these schools than in madrassahs the damage done is greater. ' According to the historian Professor Mubarak Ali, textbook reform in Pakistan began with the introduction of Pakistan Studies and Islamic studies by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in 1971 into the national curriculum as compulsory subject. Former military dictator Gen Zia-ul-Haq under a general drive towards Islamization, started the process of historical revisionism in earnest and exploited this initiative. 'The Pakistani establishment taught their children right from the beginning that this state was built on the basis of religion – that's why they don't have tolerance for other religions and want to wipe-out all of them.'\n\nIn April 2006, local authorities demolished several Hindu temples to make way for developmental projects. Their excuse was that these temples were unlicensed and squatting on government land. In April and May 2006, several Hindu temples were demolished by city hall authorities in the country, accompanied by violence against Hindus. On April 21, 2006, the Malaimel Sri Selva Kaliamman Temple in Kuala Lumpur was reduced to rubble after the city hall sent in bulldozers.\n\nThe president of the Consumers Association of Subang and Shah Alam in Selangor had been helping to organise efforts to stop the local authorities in the Muslim dominated city of Shah Alam from demolishing a 107-year-old Hindu temple. The growing Islamization in Malaysia is a cause for concern to many Malaysians who follow minority religions such as Hinduism.\n\nOn May 11, 2006, armed city hall officers from Kuala Lumpur forcefully demolished part of a 60-year-old suburban temple that serves more than 1,000 Hindus. The \"Hindu Rights Action Force\", a coalition of several NGO's, have protested these demolitions by lodging complaints with the Malaysian Prime Minister. Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia. The official reason given by the Malaysian government has been that the temples were built \"illegally\". However, several of the temples are centuries old.\nAccording to a lawyer for the Hindu Rights Action Task Force, a Hindu temple is demolished in Malaysia once every three weeks.\n\nMalaysian Muslims have also grown more anti-Hindu over the years. In response to the proposed construction of a temple in Selangor, Muslims chopped off the head of a cow to protest, with leaders saying there would be blood if a temple was constructed in Shah Alam.\n\nLaws in the country, especially those concerning religious identity, are generally slanted towards compulsion into converting to Islam\n\nIn 2006, the son of an Islamic cleric named Ahmed Deedat circulated a DVD that denounced South African Hindus. The elder Deedat, former head of the Arab funded \"Islamic Propagation Centre International\" (IPCI), had previously circulated an anti-Hindu video in the 1980s where he said that Indian Muslims were 'fortunate' that their Hindu forefathers 'saw the light' and converted to Islam when Muslim rulers dominated some areas of India. His video was widely criticized. While Hindus in South Africa have largely ignored the new anti-Hindu DVD circulated by Deedat Junior, he has been severely criticized by local Muslims, including other members of the IPCI. The IPCI said in a statement that Yusuf Deedat did not represent the organisation in any way. Deedat Junior, undeterred by the opposition from his own brethren, continues to circulate the material.He has placed advertisements in newspapers inviting anyone to collect a free copy from his residence to see for themselves \"what the controversy is about\".\n\nThe first Hindus arrived in British ruled Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean aboard the Fatel Razack on May 31, 1845 as indentured laborers who were brought by the British after the abolition of slavery, they were followed by thousand more who came between 1845 to 1917. They worked on the sugarcane, rice, cocoa, and coffee estates. The indentured laborers primarily came from the Bhojpuri region and the Awadhi region of the Hindi Belt in North India. A significant minority also came from South India and very few came from the Punjab, Maharashtra, Kumaon, Garhwal, Jammu, Kashmir, Gujarat, Kutch, Odisha, and Bengal regions. A majority of the laborers were Hindu. Unlike the African slaves who they succeeded, the Indians were able to keep their culture and traditions. This led to many Hindu immigrants passing on the faith and despite efforts by Christian missionaries to convert them many continued to practice Hinduism and today Hinduism is the second largest religion in Trinidad and Tobago and the largest religion of the Indian population in Trinidad and Tobago. Although they were allowed to continue their religion they were met with contempt or indifference by the non-Hindu residents of the country. The Hindu and Muslim clashes that occurred in South Asia continued to occur in Trinidad and Tobago during the days of indentureship and especially while in the Partition of India was going on back in South Asia. During indentureship and even in the beginning after independence from the British, Hindus were treated as second class citizens. The Hindus in Trinidad and Tobago struggled during the early days after independence and even before during British colonial times over the granting of adult franchise, a Hindu marriage act, Hindu schools, cremation ordinance, the right to Diwali as a public holiday, and others. Many of these rights were later granted, due to the efforts of Adrian Cola Rienzi (Krishna Deonarine Tiwari) and the Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha, the major Hindu organization in Trinidad and Tobago led by Bhadase Sagan Maraj. The Temple in the Sea, an iconic Hindu temple in Trinidad and Tobago has its history rooted in the prejudices of Hinduism. It was originally built by an indentured laborer from British India named Sewdass Sadhu, who actually had built the first temple on property belonging to the estate owners and the temple had to be torn down and he was jailed. After that he built a second temple out into the sea which became known as the Temple in the Sea. During the Black Power movement after independence in the 1960s-1970s many Hindu were targeted and attack and riots had broken out. These attacks, the poverty that affected many Hindus, and the status of being treated as second-class citizens led to many Hindu Trinidadians to migrate to the United Kingdom, United States, and Canada. After independence the Hindus were marginalized by the African-based People's National Movement (PNM) and the opposing party, the People's Democratic Party (PDP) led by Bhadase Sagan Maraj, later turning into the Democratic Labour Party (DLP) led by Rudranath Capildeo, then finally turning into the present-day United National Congress (UNC) party led by Basdeo Panday and Kamla Persad-Bissessar, was portrayed as a \"Hindu party\" and an \"Indian party\" and tactics were used against them. Hindus were described as a \"recalcitrant and hostile minority\", by Prime Minister Eric Williams. Hindus were alienated by such communal groups. The support of the PNM government to Christian Afro-Trinidadian and Tobagonian and Creole art forms such as Carnival and Christmas, while their public rejection and ridicule of Hindu art forms, was a particular source of contention for the Hindus. The displacement of PNM from power in 1985 would improve the circumstances. There has been persistent discontent among the Hindus with their marginalization. Many groups portray Hindus as \"clannish, backward and miserly\". During the General Elections of 1986, the absence of the Bhagavad Gita and the Quran at polling stations for required oath-taking was interpreted as a gross insult to Hindus and Muslims. The absence of any Hindu religious texts at the official residence of the President of Trinidad and Tobago during the swearing in of the new Government in 1986 was perceived as another insult to the minority communities since they were represented in the government. The national education system and curriculum have been repeatedly accused of such majority-oriented symbolism. The use of discernibly oriented prayers at Government schools, the non-representation of Hinduism in approved school textbooks, and the lack of emphasis on Hindu religious observance evoked deep resentment from the Hindu community. Intensified protests over the course of the 1980s led to an improvement in the state's attitudes towards Hindus. \n\nIn October 2018, it was reported that Conservative Party London mayoral candidate Shaun Bailey had written a pamphlet, entitled \"No Man’s Land\", for the Centre for Policy Studies. In it, Bailey argued that accommodating Hindus \"[robs] Britain of its community\" and is turning the country into a \"crime riddled cess pool\". He also claimed that South Asians \"bring their culture, their country and any problems they might have, with them\" and that this was not a problem within the black community \"because we’ve shared a religion and in many cases a language\". \n\nIn the pamphlet, Bailey had confused the Hindu religion and the Hindi language: \"You don’t know what to do. You bring your children to school and they learn far more about Diwali than Christmas. I speak to the people who are from Brent and they’ve been having Hindi days off.\"\n\nThe Conservative Party Deputy Chairman, James Cleverly, defended Bailey and insisted he was misunderstood, and that he was implying black boys were drifting into crime as a result of learning more about other faiths rather than \"their own Christian culture\". However, the anti-racism Hope Not Hate campaign group called Bailey's comments \"grotesque\". The comments were condemned by the Hindu Council of the United Kingdom who expressed \"disappointment at the misrepresentation of our faith\" by Bailey. \n\nBy the late 19th century, fear had already begun in North America over Chinese immigration supplying cheap labor to lay railroad tracks, mostly in California and elsewhere in the West Coast. In xenophobic jargon common in the day, ordinary workers, newspapers, and politicians uniformly opposed this \"Yellow Peril\". The common cause to eradicate Asians from the workforce gave rise to the Asiatic Exclusion League. When the fledging Indian community of mostly Punjabi Sikhs settled in California, the xenophobia expanded to combat not only the East Asian Yellow Peril, but now the immigrants from British India, the \"Turban Tide\", equally referred to as the \"Hindoo Invasion\" (sic).\n\nThe rise of the Indian American community in the United States has brought about some isolated incidences of attacks on them, as has been the case with many minority groups in the United States. Attacks specific to Hindus in the United States stem from what is often referred to as the \"racialization of religion\" among Americans, a process that begins when certain phenotypical features associated with a group and attached to race in popular discourse become associated with a particular religion or religions.The racialization of Hinduism in American perception has led to perceiving Hindus as a separate group and contributes to prejudices against them.\n\nIn addition, there have been anti-Hindu views that are specific to the religion of Hinduism as well as mistaken racial perceptions. Pat Robertson in the United States has made remarks denouncing Hinduism as \"demonic,\" believing that Hindus, when they \"feel any sort of inspiration, whether it's by a river or under a tree, on top of a hill, they figure that some God or spirit is responsible for that. And so they'll worship that tree, they'll worship that hill or they'll worship anything.\" These remarks were widely condemned and rebutted by Indian Americans and many non-partisan advocacy groups. Evangelical leader Albert Mohler defended Robertson's remarks, saying \"any belief system, any world view, whether it's Zen Buddhism or Hinduism or dialectical materialism for that matter, Marxism, that keeps persons captive and keeps them from coming to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, yes, is a demonstration of satanic power.\"\n\nIn July, 2007, The United States Senate conducted its morning prayer services with a Hindu prayer, a historical first. During the service, three disruptors, named Ante Nedlko Pavkovic, Katherine Lynn Pavkovic and Christian Renee Sugar, from the Fundamentalist Christian activist group Operation Save America protested that the Hindu prayer was \"an abomination\", and that they were \"Christians and Patriots\". They were swiftly arrested and charged with disrupting Congress.\n\nThe event generated a storm of protest from Christian right groups in the country, with the American Family Association (AFA) opposing the prayer and carrying out a campaign to lobby senators to protest it. Their representative attacked the proceedings as \"gross idolatry\" The AFA sent out an \"Action Alert\" to its members to e-mail, write letters, or call their Senators to oppose the Hindu prayer, stating it is \"seeking the invocation of a non-monotheistic god.\" The \"alert\" stated that \"since Hindus worship multiple gods, the prayer will be completely outside the American paradigm, flying in the face of the American motto \"One Nation Under God.\" The convocation by Zed was in fact disrupted by three protesters in the gallery reportedly shouting \"this is an abomination\" and other complaints.\n\nBarry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, said the protest \"shows the intolerance of many religious right activists. They say they want more religion in the public square, but it's clear they mean only their religion.\"\n\nA controversy in the US state of California concerning the portrayal of Hinduism in history textbooks began in 2005. The protest was led by Vedic Foundation (VF) and the American Hindu Education Foundation (HEF) by complaining to the California's Curriculum Commission, saying the coverage in sixth grade history textbooks of Indian history and Hinduism was biased against Hinduism; and points of contention includes a textbook's portrayal of the caste system, the Indo-Aryan migration theory, and the status of women in Indian society as the main features of Hinduism.\n\nThe California Department of Education (CDE) initially sought to resolve the controversy by appointing Shiva Bajpai, Professor Emeritus at California State University Northridge, as a one-man committee to review revisions proposed by the groups. Micheal Witzel and others revisited the proposed changed on behalf of the State Board of Education and suggested reverting some of the approved changes. In early 2006, the Hindu American Foundation sued the State Board over matters of process; the case was settled in 2009.\n\nThe Dotbusters was a hate group in Jersey City, New Jersey, that attacked and threatened South Asians in the fall of 1987. The name originated from the fact that traditional Hindu women and girls wear a bindi on their forehead. In July 1987, they had a letter published in the Jersey Journal stating that they would take any means necessary to drive the Indians out of Jersey City:\nI'm writing about your article during july [sic] about the abuse of Indian People. Well I'm here to state the other side. I hate them, if you had to live near them you would also. We are an organization called dot busters. We have been around for 2 years. We will go to any extreme to get Indians to move out of Jersey City. If I'm walking down the street and I see a Hindu and the setting is right, I will hit him or her. We plan some of our most extreme attacks such as breaking windows, breaking car windows, and crashing family parties. We use the phone books and look up the name Patel. Have you seen how many of them there are? Do you even live in Jersey City? Do you walk down Central avenue and experience what its [sic] like to be near them: we have and we just don't want it anymore. You said that they will have to start protecting themselves because the police cannot always be there. They will never do anything. They are a weak [sic] race physically and mentally. We are going to continue our way. We will never be stopped.\n"}
{"id": "13747660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13747660", "title": "Archive of the President of the Russian Federation", "text": "Archive of the President of the Russian Federation\n\nThe Archive of the President of the Russian Federation () is a Russian state archive established in 1991 and managed by the Presidential Administration of Russia.\n\nIt remains classified almost entirely and preserves records of the President of Russia and Presidential Administration of Russia, as well as documents of the highest organs of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "22780631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22780631", "title": "Battle of Cascina (Michelangelo)", "text": "Battle of Cascina (Michelangelo)\n\nThe Battle of Cascina is a lost artwork by Michelangelo.\n\nThe painting was commissioned from Michelangelo by Piero Soderini, statesman of the Democratic of Florence. It was intended to wall of the \"Salone dei Cinquecento\" in Palazzo Vecchio. The opposite wall was to be decorated by Leonardo da Vinci, who was commissioned to depict the Battle of Anghiari. The two battles were notable medieval Florentine victories. The Battle of Cascina was fought on 28 July 1364 between the troops of Florence and Pisa, resulting in victory of the former. A thousand Pisans were killed and two hundred more were captured.\n\nMichelangelo never completed the painting, but did produce a complete cartoon of the composition. The cartoon was copied by several artists, the most notable extant copy being by Michelangelo's pupil Sangallo. Some of Michelangelo's preparatory drawings also survive, along with prints of part of the scene by Marcantonio Raimondi. According to Michelangelo's biographer Giorgio Vasari the original cartoon was deliberately destroyed by Michelangelo's rival Bartolommeo Bandinelli because of his jealousy of its fame.\n\nMichelangelo depicted a scene at the beginning of the battle when the Florentine army was initially taken by surprise when the Pisans attacked. He depicts Florentine soldiers bathing naked in the river Arno responding to a trumpet which warns them of the sudden Pisan attack. As the soldiers emerge from the river and buckle on their armour, they are threatened by shots from the Pisans. Several soldiers look or point towards the Pisan position to the left. One soldier has apparently been hit and fallen back into the river, while others leap energetically into action.\n\nThe chosen episode allowed Michelangelo to depict his favoured topic: the naked male figure in varieties of contrapposto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23310063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23310063", "title": "Bergen Byleksikon", "text": "Bergen Byleksikon\n\nBergen Byleksikon is an encyclopedia which covers the city of Bergen in Norway. It was first published in 1994 and is authored by Gunnar Hagen Hartvedt.\n\n"}
{"id": "20081989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081989", "title": "Bolus Herbarium", "text": "Bolus Herbarium\n\nThe Bolus Herbarium was established in 1865 from a donation by Harry Bolus of his extensive herbarium and library to the South African College, which later became the University of Cape Town.\n\nIts collection of specimens numbers over 320 000, making it the third largest university herbarium in the Southern Hemisphere. The collection is highly representative of the Cape Flora and also houses a large number of type specimens. The international herbarium abbreviation BOL is used when referring to the Bolus Herbarium.\n\nList of herbaria\n\n"}
{"id": "124142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=124142", "title": "British National Formulary", "text": "British National Formulary\n\nThe British National Formulary (BNF) is a United Kingdom (UK) pharmaceutical reference book that contains a wide spectrum of information and advice on prescribing and pharmacology, along with specific facts and details about many medicines available on the UK National Health Service (NHS). Information within the BNF includes indication(s), contraindications, side effects, doses, legal classification, names and prices of available proprietary and generic formulations, and any other notable points. Though it is a national formulary, it nevertheless also includes entries for some medicines which are not available under the NHS, and must be prescribed and/or purchased privately. A symbol clearly denotes such drugs in their entry.\n\nIt is used by pharmacists and doctors (both general practitioners (GPs) and specialist practitioners), and by other prescribing healthcare professionals (such as nurses, pharmacy technicians, paramedics, and dentists); as a reference for correct dosage, indication, interactions and side effects of drugs. It is also used as a reassurance by those administering drugs, for example a nurse on a hospital ward, and even for patients and others seeking an authoritative source of advice on any aspect of pharmacotherapy.\n\nThe \"British Pharmacopoeia\" (BP) specifies quality standards for the making of drugs listed in the BNF.\n\nMany individuals and organisations contribute towards the preparation of the BNF. It is jointly authored by the British Medical Association (BMA) and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society; and is jointly published by the BMJ Group (which is owned by the BMA), and the Pharmaceutical Press (owned by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society). It is published under the authority of a Joint Formulary Committee (JFC), which comprises representatives of the two professional bodies, and the Department of Health (DoH).\n\nInformation on drugs is drawn from the manufacturers' product literature, medical and pharmaceutical literature, regulatory authorities and professional bodies. Advice is constructed from clinical literature, and reflects, as far as possible, an evaluation of the evidence from diverse sources. The BNF also takes account of authoritative national guidelines and emerging safety concerns. In addition, the Joint Formulary Committee takes advice on all therapeutic areas from expert clinicians; this ensures that the BNF's recommendations are relevant to practice. However, in September 2013, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK opened a consultation on its draft decision not to give NICE accreditation to the processes to produce BNF publications following a review by an independent advisory committee.\n\nIt was first published in 1949 as the National Formulary, with updated versions appearing every three years until 1976. The fifth version in 1957 saw its name change to \"The British National Formulary\". A new look version, under the auspices of Owen Wade, was released in 1981. A study in Northern Ireland looking at prescribing in 1965, reported that the BNF was likely able to serve the requirements of prescribers in general practice, while also achieving a cost saving. By 2003, issue 46 of the BNF contained 3000 interactions or groups of interactions, with about 900 of these marked by a bullet.\n\nA new edition of the BNF book is published twice-yearly; in March and September. , the current edition is 74, which was published in September 2017. It is a customary tradition that the colour of each new edition is radically different from the previous.\n\nThe BNF is presently available as a book, a website, and mobile applications - the latter for use on smartphones and tablets. The book is available for purchase, and the September edition is distributed to healthcare professionals in the UK at no direct cost to them. NHS workers and healthcare professionals in the HINARI group of developing nations are entitled to free access via MedicinesComplete following registration (requires provision of a name, an address, an email address, and a phone number). Other visitors can subscribe to the BNF on MedicinesComplete. Healthcare organisations can also subscribe to a customisable BNF via their corporate online intranet. In June 2012, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) released applications for offline access to the BNF on iOS and Android devices. An NHS Athens log-in is required to use this application, and monthly content updates are available, over an internet connection.\n\nThe \"British National Formulary for Children\" (BNFC) book, first published September 2005, is published yearly, and details the doses and uses of medicines in children from neonates to adolescents.\n\nThe \"Nurse Prescriber's Formulary for Community Practitioners\" (NPF) is issued in print every two years (September, odd-numbered years), for use by District Nurses and Specialist Community Public Health Nurses (including Health Visitors) who have received training to become nurse prescribers.\n\nThe \"British National Formulary\" is divided into various sections; with the main sections on drugs and preparations being organised by body system.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42139791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42139791", "title": "Collier County Museums", "text": "Collier County Museums\n\nThe Collier County Museums represents five museums within Collier County, Florida, United States. Each museum presents information on the history, heritage, culture and evolution of life and ecology in the Everglades.\n\nThe \"Museum of the Everglades\" is located in the village of \"Everglades City\" and is a facility to learn about life in the local community. One museum is housed in a national historic landmark known as Everglades Laundry.\n\nThe museums were established in 1978, and display the people, places, and events that mark the area's history. The museums offers five separate facilities, each providing a differing view of the area's past, covering both history and legends, and featuring the beaches, cypress forests, and grasslands of the Florida Everglades. The displays include subjects such as saber cats and ancient civilizations, archaeological discoveries, inventions, trading posts, and cattle ranches.\n\n"}
{"id": "6274104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6274104", "title": "Comparison of American football and rugby union", "text": "Comparison of American football and rugby union\n\nA comparison of American football and rugby union is possible because of the games' shared origins, despite their dissimilarities.\n\nIn the event of a tackle in rugby the player may pass the ball behind him provided he is not on the ground. If the tackled player is on the ground, the ball must be released, allowing any other player (including the opposition) to pick up the ball (usually a ruck forms) and the play continues. In the event of a tackle in American Football the play is concluded and the team on offense maintains possession usually if either the ball was advanced past the first down marker (resulting in a first down and a renewal of the down count) or else the down count advances (although if the play was the fourth down play and the ball is not advanced past the first down marker then the defensive team would gain possession).\n\nIn rugby union, it is against the law to throw (pass) the ball in a forward direction: a player in a position to receive such a pass would in most cases be offside anyway. In American football, a player behind the line of scrimmage (most often the quarterback) is permitted to throw the ball forward from behind the line of scrimmage, provided that only one forward pass may be attempted during each play. A player can attempt a forward pass if he has already received a backwards pass, provided he stays behind the line of scrimmage.\n\nProfessional and most scholastic American football team play has evolved from a single team with all players except limited substitutions playing the entire game, to a specialized \"platoon\" system consisting of three separate units (offensive, defensive, and \"special teams\" used for kicking and punting) with only one of the three being on the field at a time. That is to say that in professional American football, the majority of players play in only one specialization (or \"one side of the ball\") – however, every player is eligible to play in any specialization.\n\nIn rugby the teams are divided into eight forwards and seven backs. Both groups of players partake in attacking and defensive plays and are on the pitch at the same time. Only the eight forwards take part in the \"set pieces\", which are ways to contest ball possession when there is a minor rule infringement or the ball passes out of bounds. These set pieces are scrums, tests of strength, and line outs. A person's build and skill set determines which group they can play in. All forwards must be heavy and strong to scrummage well but not so heavy that they are too slow to partake in attacking plays. The backs are lighter and faster and include the expert kickers. The forwards numbered 1 to 8 are the players that need to have good all-round rugby skills as well as speed and strength. In professional rugby there are very few players who can play equally well in a variety of positions and most will play in the same position from youth. Every position in rugby has its own unique name (except for number 8) and associated skill base.\n\nIn most club and schoolhouse American Football, the majority of players play both offense and defense, only being substituted for injury. Substitutes in American football can return to the game at any stoppage in play. In rugby union, any player substituted off for any reason, except for a 'blood' injury, is prohibited from returning to the field of play (with the possible exception of front-row forwards). Rugby teams may make up to seven substitutions. Each team must field 15 players at the start of each match. Players who are bleeding may receive medical treatment off pitch and are replaced until they have stopped bleeding. If the bleeding has not stopped after 15 minutes of \"real time\", the player will be permanently substituted. This can be down to officials' discretion, depending at which level the sport is played, where only minor medical assistance is needed to make the player fit to return to the field of play. Ejected players in American football can be replaced with a substitute.\n\nIn rugby union there are two different punishments. A yellow card can be shown for lesser infringements, which leads to the player being off the pitch for 10 minutes whilst the team will play with one less player for that duration. For more serious offenses, such as eye gouging or stamping in some cases, players can be shown a red card, which means they are off the pitch for the rest of the match and the team plays the rest of the match with 14 players. Players who are red carded automatically face a disciplinary hearing, and can be banned for a period of time from one week to permanently depending on the level of offence. Also, in a televised match, rugby union players can be \"cited\" (by an independent citing commissioner) for an act of foul play for which the referee did not send the player off. This means that players who committed an act of foul play which the referee did not see, or was more serious than the referee thought, still face a disciplinary panel and possible suspension.\n\nIn American football, players are only disqualified for Unsportsmanlike Conduct and related penalties (Fighting, Palpably Unfair Acts, etc.). Players sent off in this fashion must be replaced with another member of the team for the remainder of the game. In addition, disqualified players may be fined (in the NFL) and/or suspended (at all levels) for future games.\n\nA rugby union game is divided into two halves of 40 minutes (or shorter for lower-grade games, and breaks given halfway through each half if playing conditions are considered to be extreme) separated by a half time period of up to 15 minutes in an international match. Most notably, a rugby union game will continue after the scheduled end of a half (half-time or full-time) until the ball becomes dead - any occurrence that would have play restart with a scrum or lineout, or when a team scores. This has led to some \"nail-biting\" finishes where teams losing by only a small margin work their way towards scoring, and games can go on several minutes over time. Something similar can occur at the end of either half in American football, though usually for only a few seconds of additional time, because a play that begins before the half expires continues until the ball is dead regardless of whether there is any time left on the clock. In both sports, the clock is also stopped during substitutions and for injuries, so the referee does not need to add stoppage time as is done in soccer/Association football. American football games are made up of four quarters of 15 minutes each (less at the high school and youth levels), but the clock stops and starts according to specific rules, so that a 15-minute quarter lasts much longer.\n\nIn the televised version of American football (both professional and major college level), the duration of such stoppages is often extended to accommodate the airing of commercial advertisements; this does not occur outside of the televised environment, where breaks in play are comparable to those in rugby union. In addition to this, the half-time break is typically 12 to 15 minutes; this intermission allows for resetting of strategy in both rugby and American football and adjusting to the opponent's schemes. During the American football halftime period, entertainment is provided for the fans in attendance, ranging from marching band performances in high school and college games to big-name entertainment for the Super Bowl (which usually has a longer-than-normal halftime in order to set up and break down whatever stage the halftime performer(s) will use). The entertainment in rugby varies from club to club but often includes kicking competitions involving members of the crowd, or youth rugby teams playing quick tournament games. Teams in the Super Rugby competition in the Southern Hemisphere often have cheerleaders and mascots; however, very few rugby union teams in the northern hemisphere have cheerleaders.\n\nIn both sports, the essence of the game is to carry the ball over the opponent's goal line (Rugby requires the ball to be placed on the ground with downward pressure to score). In both sports the ball may be passed backwards an unlimited number of times, but in American football the ball may be passed forward once (and only once) as long as the passer is behind the line of scrimmage, as opposed to rugby union, where the ball cannot be passed forward but only kicked or carried forward. Even when kicked, only the kicker or players behind the kicker are allowed to catch or interfere with play.\n\nIn both sports, play is stopped when the ball goes out of bounds, when a player or team commits a foul or after any scoring play. In American football, play is also stopped when a player is ruled down or when a forward pass falls incomplete.\n\nThe forward pass and the stoppage when a player with the ball is downed results in short plays and a generally episodic game play in American football, as opposed to the longer and more fluid passages of play found in rugby union. If a player in rugby is tackled then the ball must be released and any player arriving at the scene may pick up the ball and run with it. If two or more opposing players arrive at the same time then a ruck is formed and the players push each other to get at the ball before play continues.\n\nIn rugby, kicking during the flow of the game is done for tactical reasons (both offensive and defensive) or to score a goal. If the ball is recovered by the kicking team, it can lead to significant improvement in field position. It is also legal in rugby to kick at goal at any point in the game. This is called a drop goal. In American football, a team that kicks the ball during play automatically gives up possession and cannot recover the ball unless an error in catching the ball (drop), or while running after catching (fumble) is made by the receiving team; because of this, punting is typically done only when teams do not expect to be able to retain possession (i.e. on fourth down). Additionally, rule changes made in the early twentieth century mandated that field goals cannot be made in front of the line of scrimmage; this has led to the demise of the drop-kick field goal in American football. Catching (or recovering) and blocking kicked balls are integral skills in rugby as well as in American football.\n\nVarious forms of football have been played in Britain for centuries with different villages and schools having their own traditional rules.\n\nThe Football Association was formed in England in October 1863. Differences of opinion about the proposed laws led to the formation of the first governing body for rugby, the Rugby Football Union in 1871. Laws were drawn up for rugby football which was now distinct from Association football (soccer).\n\nIn 1872 rugby clubs were established in the San Francisco Bay Area, which were composed mainly of British expatriates. The first recorded rugby match in the United States occurred on May 14, 1874 between Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts and McGill University of Montreal, Quebec when McGill challenged Harvard to a game using rules in place at the Montreal campus.\n\nIn 1876, Yale, Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia formed the Intercollegiate Football Association, a competition based on the traditional rules of rugby. The sport of American football evolved from these intercollegiate games (see History of American football).\n\nBack in England, a schism developed between those who favoured amateurism (southern English teams) and those who felt that players should be compensated for time taken off work to play rugby (northern teams). In 1895, this resulted in the formation of a break-away governing body, the Northern Union. The schism in English rugby was caused by several economic factors for the northern clubs which made up the majority of the teams.\n\nThe Northern Union began to make changes to the laws of rugby in 1906, which resulted in the sport of rugby league. The Rugby Football Union's version of rugby became known as rugby union after its governing body. Rugby is played in 120 countries, is extremely popular in England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, France, Italy, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Argentina, Uruguay, Madagascar, Kenya, Namibia, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji and Japan. American football is popular almost exclusively in the United States and Canada.\n\nCurrently rugby has large national club championships (such as the English Premiership, Top 14, Currie Cup), major continental club championships (like the European Rugby Champions Cup and Super Rugby) and major international championships, highlighting the Rugby World Cup, the 3rd most watched sporting event in the world. Gridiron football major championships are limited to just national competitions in the United States (NFL) and Canada (CFL), has recently been gaining acceptance in European competition (NFL Europe, which had its last edition in 2007), and the only competition between national teams is the IFAF World Championship, which is not considered a major event when compared to the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup and the Rugby World Cup.\n\nThe dimensions of an American football field are measured in United States customary units (essentially the same as British Imperial units). Rugby union originally marked and quoted its measurements in Imperial but converted to Metric units in 1977. When these conversions were made the measurements were generally adjusted to the closest round-number measurement in the metric system.\n\nAlthough both codes are played on similar sized rectangular fields, the dimensions of rugby union fields can vary up to a maximum size that is larger than the fixed size of American football fields. Rugby union fields are limited to a maximum length of long ( between goal lines) and width of , while American football fields have a fixed length of ( between goal lines) and a width of . The scoring \"end zone\" in American football has a fixed depth of whilst in Rugby Union the goal area must be between a minimum depth of and a maximum of between the goal line and the dead ball line at the rear of the field.\n\nAn American football \"field\" is bordered by \"sidelines\" and \"end lines\". A rugby union \"pitch\" has \"touchlines\" and \"dead-ball lines\" respectively. True to its rugby roots, the boundary lines in American football are also out of play (unlike in the majority of other sports where being in contact with the line means that the player or ball is still in-play).\n\nIn both rugby and American football all the major interior lines run transversely across the playing area.\n\nThe border between the regular field of play and a scoring zone in both sports is called the goal line (though it is more commonly referred to as the \"try line\" in rugby union).\n\nThe playing field of rugby is divided into halves by a halfway line. An American football field has a 50 yard line which is sometimes referred to as the \"midfield line\". On an American football field there are a further 18 solid yard lines crossing the field, marked at intervals between each goal-line and the 50 yard line. These lines are named for the distance that they are from the nearest goal line, for example 5 yard line, 10 yard line, 35 yard line, etc. Rugby union pitches have only two further solid lines called the 22 metre lines. They are so called because they are marked from the goal lines. This unusual distance exists because rugby changed from Imperial units to Metric units in 1977; the line had previously been a 25-yard-line. The metric equivalent of 25 yards is 22.86 metres which should round to 23 metres; some sources argue that the reason for rounding down to 22 was to further restrict players within the 1968 25-yard line kicking law; a rule that had been introduced to encourage more running play.\n\nIn rugby, the kickoff to begin each half and restarts after scores are taken from the halfway line whereas in American football these can be taken from the 30, 35 or 40 yard line depending on if it is a college, NFL or high-school game. The yard lines of American football are vitally important during game play because a team's advance is measured against them which, in turn, determines possession of the ball. The 22 metre lines in rugby union effectively divide the field into approximate quarters (though not always as rugby pitches vary in size; the total length of the field of play must not exceed 100m but can be shorter than that if space is limited). The 22 metre lines determine the position from which \"drop-outs\" are taken and also mark the limit where a defending player may kick-the ball directly (without bouncing) into touch without losing the ground gained by the kick.\n\nIn American football there is a 2 yard line (for NFL 2-point conversions), 15 yard line (for NFL 1-point conversions) or \"3 yard line\" (college and high-school) which is sometimes called the PAT (point after touchdown) line. This is a short line marked the appropriate distance from the goal line directly in front of the posts and is where the line of scrimmage forms when one team has scored and is attempting a conversion. In rugby union there are two broken lines that cross the whole pitch marked ten metres either side of the halfway line. These are called the 10 metre lines and mark the minimum distance restart kicks must travel and the forward limit of where the receiving team can stand to receive these kicks.\n\nIn American football there are also four hash marks (one near each side line and a pair either side of the longitudinal center of the field) marked every yard between the major transverse lines. Though these technically run across the pitch they can more usefully be regarded as longitudinal lines because each hash mark is only a yard long and they are so numerous that they create more obvious pattern down the field than across it (see below).\n\nIn rugby union there is a line five metres from the goal line indicated by a series of six short dashes marked 5 metres in from touch, 15 metres in from touch and directly in front of each post (these are frequently called the five metre line though they technically have no name the 5 metre lines are longitudinal lines 5 metres in from touch). These are marked to assist the referee because no set-piece (scrum or line-out) may take place within five metres of the goal line.\n\nAs described above, in American football there are four longitudinal lines made up of yard-long \"hashes\". These hash marks are marked at one yard intervals between each yard line and parallel to them. They further assist the umpires to determine how far the ball has been advanced each down and the central pair also mark the widest point at which any play may be initiated; all plays start with the ball on or between the middle pair of hash marks. In professional football these central hash marks are the same width as the goalposts (18 feet, 6 inches wide), in college football they are 40 feet apart and in high school football they are 53 feet, 4 inches apart.\n\nIn rugby there are four longitudinal dotted lines. Two are marked 5 metres in from the touch lines and two a further ten metres in. These are the 5 metre lines and 15 metre lines respectively. These are used to determine where players making up the \"line-out\" are allowed to stand before the throw-in. The five metre line also assists the referee because scrums may not be set within five metres of the touch line.\n\nBoth codes also have goalposts at each end of the field: on the goal-line in the case of rugby union; but further back in American football on the back of the end zone.\n\nAmerican football goalposts were formerly H-shaped and were located on the goal line, but; in 1967, the NFL adopted the current modern offset-fork design, made from extruded steel pipes. The goalposts currently consist of two vertical posts apart ( in high school football) rising from a horizontal crossbar, which is mounted on a single central support post that raises the crossbar to a height of , resulting in a two-tined fork shape. The central vertical post is offset from the crossbar toward the rear, placing it as far as possible from the field of play; it is also usually padded to minimize collision-related injuries. In 1974, in the effort to create a safer, unimpeded field of play in the end zone, calculated to produce more passing touchdowns, the NFL relocated the goalposts from the goal line to the end line.\n\nRugby union goalposts are apart and extend vertically from the ground being connected by a crossbar at , creating an H-shape. In both cases, only kicks passing between the uprights and above the crossbar score points. The scoring areas of both types of goalposts are technically infinite as there is no top boundary.\n\nIn American football, the team that is in possession of the ball, the offense, has four downs to advance the ball 10 yards towards the opponent's end zone. If the offense gains 10 yards, it gets another set of four downs. If the offense fails to gain 10 yards after four downs, it loses possession of the ball.\n\nThe ball is put into play by a snap. All players line up facing each other at or behind the line of scrimmage. One offensive player, the center, then passes (or \"snaps\") the ball between his legs to a teammate, usually the quarterback.\n\nPlayers can then advance the ball in two ways:\n\nA down ends, and the ball becomes dead, after any of the following:\n\nRugby union is based on the 'right to contest possession'. A team is not required to surrender possession when the ball carrier is tackled, in contrast to American football, where a team must surrender their possession when a player is tackled and no downs remain. Rugby union players must win possession in open play, unless the team in possession makes an infringement, scores, or the ball leaves the field of play.\n\nA team in rugby union can advance the ball in two ways:\n\n\nIn rugby the method of attack is typically decided by the person in the number ten jersey (the flyhalf). Once the forwards gain possession of the ball after a scrum, line out or ruck the ball is usually passed to this player who is the midpoint between the forwards and the backs. He/she must read the opposition's defensive strategy and calls a play accordingly, either running, passing or kicking to other players. After the set piece or ruck the no.10 is the first player who has time to control the play and must therefore be an expert at a wide variety of kicks and an expert passer. The rule differences mean that there are a wider variety of kicks and kicking strategies in rugby compared to American football.\n\nPossession may change in different ways in both games:\n\n\nIn both codes, tactical kicking is an important aspect of play. In American football, it is normal to punt on the last down, but, as in rugby union, a kick can take place at any phase of play.\n\nIn American football, the offense can throw the ball forward once on a play from behind the line of scrimmage. The forward pass is a distinguishing feature of American and Canadian football as it is strictly forbidden in rugby.\n\nThe ball can be thrown sideways or backwards without restriction in both games. In American football this is known as a lateral and is much less common than in rugby union. However designed laterals (often known as pitches) which take place behind the line of scrimmage are quite common in American football and are often a way that a ball is transferred from the quarterback to a running back on sweep plays or to a wide receiver on speed sweeps or a reverse.\n\nIn both codes, if the ball is caught by an opposition player this results in an interception and possession changes hands.\n\nIn both games it is permitted to bring down the player in possession of the ball and prevent him or her from making forward progress. In rugby, unlike in American football, the ball is still in play. Players from either team can take possession of the ball. The tackled player must present the ball (release the ball) so that open play can continue.\n\nRugby union rules do not allow tackles above the plane of the shoulders. Only the player who has possession of the ball can be tackled. The attacker must also attempt to wrap his or her arms around the player being tackled: merely pushing the player being tackled to ground with a shoulder is illegal. If a maul or ruck is formed, a player may not \"ram\" into the formation without first binding to the players.\n\nIn American football, tacklers are not required to wrap their arms around the ball carrier before bringing him to the ground; in fact, the ball carrier is often \"tackled\" by the defender taking a running start and hitting the ball carrier to knock him to the ground. Tackles can also be made by grabbing the ball carrier's jersey and pulling him to the ground (though pulling down a ball carrier from behind by the pads or jersey behind his neck is known as a \"horse collar\", a move now illegal at all levels of the American game). If a ball carrier is stopped for more than a few seconds, the referee can blow the whistle, declare the player's forward progress stopped, and end the play even though the ball carrier is not actually tackled to the ground.\n\nIn American football, players are allowed to 'block' players without the ball. This is not permitted in rugby union and would be considered 'obstruction', resulting in a penalty.\n\nA touchdown is the American football equivalent of the rugby try. Unlike American football, both codes of rugby require the ball to be grounded, whereas in American football it is sufficient for the ball to enter the end zone (in-goal area) when in the possession of a player. In American football a touchdown scores 6 points; in rugby union a try is worth 5 points.\n\nRugby also allows for a penalty try, awarded by the referee when he believes that a try has been prevented by the defending team's misconduct. In comparison, American football allows the referee to declare that a \"Palpably unfair act\" was committed by the defending team: the referee is allowed in such a situation (at his discretion) to award a score (most commonly a touchdown) or other penalty (in amateur play, including forfeiture of the game). In practice, however, such a call is extremely rare and limited to extreme circumstances, such as a player who was not in the game at the start of the play running off of the sidelines and tackling the player with the ball, as was the case in the 1954 Cotton Bowl Classic. In high school football, this can also be called if the defense commits repeated and intentional fouls at the goal line.\n\nIn both games, following a try / touchdown, there is the opportunity to score additional points by kicking the ball between the posts and over the bar. In American football this is called an extra point (worth 1 point); in rugby union it is known as a conversion (worth 2 points). (The result is that both the touchdown/extra point combination and the try/conversion combination, when successful, total to 7 points.) One key difference between an extra point and a conversion is that a conversion kick must be taken from a position in line with where the try was scored, although the distance from the try line from which the conversion kick is taken is not fixed. Hence, it is advantageous to ground the ball under the posts rather than in the corner which makes for a more difficult kick. Also, American football features the option of the going for a 2-point conversion, where the attacking team gets one chance from 3 yards out (2 in the NFL) to get the ball in the endzone again. This would be worth 2 points on top of the 6 already awarded for the touchdown. Plus, all American football, except high school (all but Massachusetts & Texas), allows conversion turnovers that are returned for touchdowns to be given 2 points.\n\nIn American football teams often opt to go for a field goal (worth 3 points) rather than attempt a touchdown, either because it is fourth down and they don't want to risk a turnover or because it is late in the game and the three points will either tie the game or put the team ahead. The rugby equivalent is a drop goal (worth 3 points). The key difference between a field goal and a drop goal is that a field goal attempt is normally kicked with a teammate holding the ball, whereas in rugby the ball must hit the ground and be kicked immediately as it touches the ground.\n\nIn American football, a field goal is generally kicked from seven yards behind the line of scrimmage, with the \"holder\" receiving a \"long snap\" from the center. This is the optimum distance for a kick to be made before the defensive team can break through the line of scrimmage to block the kick. When calculating the distance of a kick, one adds seven yards to the line of scrimmage, then adds ten more to account for the end zone (as the goal posts are in the back of the end zone) Therefore, if the line of scrimmage is the 20-yard line, a field goal taken from there would be a 37-yard kick - the ball would be set down for the kick at the 27, plus 10 yards for the end zone.\n\nBecause of the mechanics of the kick, field goals are only attempted from a very specific range. In the modern NFL any kick under 40 yards is considered very makeable and should be converted by a competent kicker. Kicks from 40-45 yards are considered more challenging, but usually makeable, kicks from the 50 yard range are considered difficult. Kicks from 55 or more yards are considered extremely difficult, and are normally only attempted in dire situations at the end of the game when the field goal would tie or win the game. The record for longest field goal is 64 yards, which has been done once by Matt Prater in 2013. A 65-yard kick by Ola Kimrin was made during a preseason exhibition game in 2002, but preseason games are not included in record keeping. Notably, the 64- and the 65-yard kicks were made in Denver, Colorado, where the elevation is .\n\nA similar concept in rugby is the penalty goal. Following the award of the penalty, the attacking team may opt to kick for goal rather than advance the ball by hand or punting, or forming a scrum. This scores 3 points. The penalty goal is similar to a field goal in American football in that the ball is kicked from the ground, but it cannot be charged. There is no direct equivalent to a penalty goal in American football. A rare play called a \"fair catch kick\" is analogous to a goal from mark which existed in rugby union at one time.\n\nAmerican football has one further method of scoring which does not exist in rugby. If the team with possession causes the ball to enter its own endzone, and the ball carrier is then tackled while within the endzone, then this results in a safety which scores 2 points for the non-possessing team and then requires the possessing team to give up the ball by kicking to its opponent. In rugby union this does not score any points but results in a scrum 5 meters from the try zone with the team that didn't put the ball into the in-goal area putting the ball in.\n\nIn rugby, If the ball is put past the try line by the attacking team, into the in-goal area, by means of kicking, passing or running and the receiving team grounds it or makes it dead immediately, a drop kick from the 22-metre line ensues. In American football, if a kick-off or punt goes into the endzone and the receiving team downs it without leaving the endzone, the result is a \"touch back\" and the receiving team gains possession of the ball at their own 20-yard (25 yard line in College Football) line.\n\nAn important difference between the two sports involves the aftermath of a score. In American football, the scoring team kicks off, except after a safety. In rugby union, the team conceding the score kicks off (in rugby sevens, a variant of rugby union featuring seven players per side, the scoring team kicks off).\n\nAn American football team consists of an offensive unit, a defensive unit and a \"special teams\" unit (involved in kicking and kick returns). Only eleven players can be on the field at any time. Players are allowed to play on more than one of the units, this is the norm for all but the highest levels of play (professional and large schools). The kicking unit, with the exception of a few specialists, will usually be made up of reserve players from the offense and defense.\n\nIn rugby union, the same players have to both defend and attack. There are fifteen players in a rugby union team (except in sevens and tens).\nMany of the positions in each code have similar names, but, in practice, the roles of those positions can be different. A fullback in American football is very different from a fullback in rugby. Some of the positions are fairly similar; a Rugby fly-half carries out a similar role to a quarterback in American football; however, quarterbacks touch the ball on almost every offensive play.\n\nBroadly speaking linemen and linebackers in American football correspond to forwards in rugby, and running backs, receivers, and quarterbacks have roles similar to backs in rugby.\n\nBecause of the playing time, number of pauses, number of players and the nature of the game in general, rugby players will typically need higher physical endurance than American football players while more short-term bursts of physical strength, power, and speed will be required in American football (amongst equivalent positions and weights). Collisions between players in American football tend to cause greater injury than in rugby union; in rugby union tackles must at least show an attempt to bind is made but this rule does not apply to American football. Moreover, rugby union hits are not usually at the speed of American football both because of the nature of the game and the lack of protective equipment. Additionally, rugby offsides rules and the lack of a forward pass significantly reduce the chance of a player receiving a \"blind-side\" hit (i.e. being hit and/or tackled from behind). In American football, players receiving a forward pass are often extremely vulnerable because they must concentrate on catching the ball, often jumping very high or stretching out and thereby exposing their body to punishing hits; in rugby a player is not allowed to be tackled in the air, leaving the receiver of the kick with more time to assess his surroundings, usually in rugby ball carriers can anticipate a hit and can brace themselves accordingly.\n\nIn rugby, the contact times between players are usually much longer, as a more wrestling approach is required to bring players down, as momentum cannot always be relied upon particularly when the lines between the teams are consistently close, not allowing for significant momentum to be developed before meeting a defender. In rugby, rucks and mauls may develop following a tackle when multiple players from each team bind together to move the ball in play (on the ground or in-hand respectively). In American football, equivalents to rucks and mauls are virtually non existent, as play stops when the ball is stopped. These difference can be summed up in the idea that in American football the objective is to bring the player to ground or to disrupt a pass to end the play, whereas in rugby the main objective is to stop the player from breaking the line.\n\nAmerican football quarterbacks, linebackers, - and increasingly, their coaches - have the ability to decide what the next play would be in many occasions during the game, thus allowing for both complex tactics displayed within individual plays and overall game-wide strategy in play calling and play selection. In rugby union, the continuous nature of the game implies that there is no time to discuss team strategy, therefore offensive actions may seem to lack a definite direction for some periods of time. Rugby is more movement based than American football in which short bursts are needed.\n\nRugby players often continue to participate in the game long after they have left school. In America, amateurs who have left school rarely play full tackle football, but often play touch football or flag football.\n\nRugby union players are allowed to wear modest padding on the head, shoulders and collarbone, but it must be sufficiently light, thin and compressible to meet World Rugby standards, and the vast majority of players play with only a gumshield for protection. Protective headgear is becoming more popular with players with a history of concussion or who wish to protect their ears from damage (usually front or second rows). Hard plastic or metal are prohibited in rugby kit. This includes hard plastic shin guards. No form of metal is allowed in any rugby kit, except for World Rugby-approved soft aluminium studs on boots.\n\nThe prohibition of metal resulted in one of the most unusual pieces of protective gear ever seen in any sport in a 2010 Heineken Cup semifinal between Biarritz and Munster. Biarritz star Imanol Harinordoquy had suffered a broken nose in a domestic encounter with Racing Métro's Sébastien Chabal, and had undergone surgery to repair it. He received approval to wear a mask to protect the injury, but had to have the frame covered by more than of foam padding; at least one journalist likened Harinordoquy to the Man in the Iron Mask.\n\nOften considered an essential (though not mandatory) part of the safety equipment needed for rugby is the gumshield or mouthguard. Players also have the option to use fingerless gloves which have been introduced recently to the game allowing players to better grip the ball.\n\nAmerican football players wear much bulkier protective equipment, such as a padded plastic helmet, shoulder pads, hip pads and knee pads. These protective pads were introduced decades ago and have improved ever since to help minimize lasting injury to players. An American football helmet consists of a hard plastic top with thick padding on the inside, a facemask made of one or more metal bars, and a chinstrap used to secure the helmet. An unintended consequence of all the safety equipment has resulted in increasing levels of force in the game which, unprotected and in current form, would now be extremely dangerous. An example of this is the trend for players tackling head first rather than leading with a shoulder, which has led to some serious neck injuries, including breaks, even with the helmets used. In previous years with less padding, tackling more closely resembled tackles in rugby union, with less severe impacts and less severe structural injuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31694447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31694447", "title": "Comparison of video converters", "text": "Comparison of video converters\n\nVideo converters are computer programs that can change the storage format of digital video. They may recompress the video to another format in a process called transcoding, or may simply change the container format without changing the video format. The disadvantages to transcoding are that there is quality loss when transcoding between lossy compression formats, and that the process is highly CPU intensive.\n\nThis article compares video converters that have their own article on Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8188754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8188754", "title": "Corning Museum of Glass", "text": "Corning Museum of Glass\n\nThe Corning Museum of Glass is a museum in Corning, New York dedicated to the art, history and science of glass. It was founded in 1951 by Corning Glass Works and currently has a collection of more than 45,000 glass objects, some over 3,500 years old.\n\nFounded in 1951 by Corning Glass Works (now Corning Incorporated) as a gift to the nation for the company’s 100th anniversary, the Corning Museum of Glass is a not-for-profit museum dedicated to telling the story of a single material: glass. Thomas S. Buechner, who would later become director of the Brooklyn Museum, was the founding director of the glass museum, serving in the post from 1951 to 1960 and again from 1973 to 1980.\n\nThe original Museum and library were housed in a low, glass-walled building designed by Harrison & Abramovitz in 1951. By 1978, the Museum had outgrown its space. Gunnar Birkerts designed a new addition, creating a flowing series of galleries with the library at their core, linked to the old building via light-filled, windowed ramps. With memories of the 1972 hurricane still fresh (see Flood Damage), the new galleries were raised high above the flood line on concrete pillars. The new Museum opened to the public on May 28, 1980, exactly 29 years after its first opening.\n\nBy the early 1990s, the Corning Museum of Glass was once more overflowing its exhibition space, and increasing visitation put a strain on guest facilities. In 1996, the Museum embarked upon the first phase of a planned five-year, $65 million transformation. Under the directorship of Dr. David Whitehouse, the first element to be added was The Studio. This state-of-the-art teaching facility for glassblowing and coldworking opened for classes in 1996.\n\nArchitects Smith-Miller + Hawkinson designed an addition to the main Museum building, using glass wherever possible to convey the beauty and elegance of the art form in the building itself. The Museum's renovation was completed in 2001, and included a new visitors' center, Sculpture Gallery, (now the Contemporary Glass Gallery), Hot Glass Show demonstration stage and a hands-on Innovation Center with exhibitions designed by Ralph Appelbaum Associates. A redesigned 18,000-square-foot (1,700 m2) GlassMarket, one of the largest Museum shops in the country, filled the entire first floor of the museum. The Rakow Library was relocated to new quarters across the Museum campus.\n\nOver the past decade, the Museum’s collection, programs, and global impact have grown significantly. At the beginning of 2012, the Museum announced a $64 million expansion project, designed by Thomas Phifer, to expand contemporary gallery and Hot Glass Show space. The new contemporary wing is slated to open in March 2015.\n\nIn June 1972, disaster struck as Hurricane Agnes emptied a week's worth of rain into the surrounding Chemung River Valley. On June 23, the Chemung River overflowed its banks and poured five feet four inches of floodwater into the Museum. When the waters receded, staff members found glass objects tumbled in their cases and crusted with mud, the library's books swollen with water. The case holding 600 rare books tipped over, and the books were covered by mud and shards of glass panes. Half of the entire Library collection was damaged in the flood. According to Martin and Edwards, 528 of the Museum's 13,000 objects had sustained damage (1977, 11) At the time, Buechner described the flood as \"possibly the greatest single catastrophe borne by an American museum.\" Conservation was an immediate concern and staff moved quickly to freeze the flooded materials. Museum staff members, under the directorship of Robert H. Brill were faced with the tremendous task of restoration: every glass object had to be meticulously cleaned and restored, while the library's contents had to be cleaned and dried page by page, slide by slide, even before being assessed for rebinding, restoration, or replacement.\n\nDuring the extensive recovery efforts, the Library occupied an abandoned Acme grocery store across the street from the Museum. Altogether, staff and volunteers dried, cleaned, and restored over 7,000 water-logged, frozen books over the next 2 years. The rare books were sent to Carolyn Horton, a leading restoration expert, who disassembled, washed, deacidified and rebound them. On August 1, 1972, the Museum reopened with restoration work still underway.\n\nThe Museum's Glass Collection showcases more than 35 centuries of glass artistry. The Museum's collection of contemporary artworks includes pieces by significant artists such as Klaus Moje, Karen LaMonte, Bruno Pedrosa, Dale Chihuly, Libenský / Brychtová and Josiah McElheny. The Glass Collection Galleries show the most comprehensive and celebrated glass collection in the world. The galleries explore Near Eastern, Asian, European, and American glass and glassmaking from antiquity through present day. They tell the story of glass creation, from a full-scale model of an Egyptian furnace, to the grand factories of Europe, to the small-scale furnaces that fueled the Studio Glass movement that began in America in 1962. The galleries contain objects representing every country and historical period in which glassmaking has been practiced. The galleries include: Glass in Nature, Origins of Glassmaking, Glass of the Romans, Glass in the Islamic World, Early Northern European Glass, The Rise of Venetian Glassmaking, Glass in 17th-19th Century Europe, 19th Century European Glass, Asian Glass, Glass in America, Corning: From Farm Town to “Crystal City,” Paperweights of the World and Modern Glass.\n\nIn addition to these galleries, there is the Jerome and Lucille Strauss Study Gallery, Frederick Carder Gallery and Ben W. Heineman Sr. Gallery of Contemporary Glass. The Study Gallery is filled with a wide range of objects from all periods. The gallery is named after Museum benefactors Jerome and Lucille Strauss, who, by gift and bequest, provided the Museum with an unparalleled collection of 2,400 drinking glasses dating from ancient to modern times. The Frederick Carder Gallery features an extensive collection of glass designed by Frederick Carder (1863–1963), a gifted English designer who managed Steuben Glass Works from its founding in 1903 until 1932. During this time, the production of Steuben changed from various types of colored glass to colorless glass.\n\nThe Museum’s gallery of contemporary glass focuses on vessels, objects, sculptures, and installations made by international artists over the last 25 years. The purpose of the gallery is to show the different ways in which glass is used as a medium for contemporary art. The gallery is named for the Ben W. Heineman Sr. family, who donated a major collection of contemporary glass to the Museum in 2005.\n\nThe Corning Museum of Glass offers exhibitions year-round. Past exhibitions have included: Medieval Glass for Popes, Princes and Peasants, East Meets West: Cross-Cultural Influences in Glassmaking in the 18th and 19th Centuries and Mirror to Discovery: The 200-Inch Disk and the Hale Reflecting Telescope at Palomar. Several special exhibitions are offered at the Museum and the Rakow Research Library each year, from shows focused on specific artists to major exhibitions on important topics in glass and glass history.\n\nIn the Glass Innovation Center, visitors can meet the inventors whose ideas changed the world. At the Innovation Center guests have the opportunity to dabble with glass chemistry, experience the power of optical fiber and see themselves in the strange reflection of a flight simulator mirror. The Innovation Center galleries currently on display include the Optics Gallery, Vessels Gallery and Windows Gallery. A 300-foot bridge connects three floating pavilions.\n\nInaugurated in 1986 by The Corning Museum of Glass, the Rakow Commission supports the development of new works of art in glass. This program, which provides $25,000 each year, is made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. and Mrs. Leonard S. Rakow, who were Museum Fellows, friends, and benefactors of the Museum. Each commissioned work is added to the Museum's collection and is displayed publicly for the first time during the annual Seminar.\n\nGuests can watch live glassmaking, or learn to make glass at the Museum. The live glassmaking demonstrations are major visitor attractions. Demonstrations happen live in Corning every day, as well as on three Celebrity cruise ships.\n\nThe Museum offers several live glassmaking demonstrations that allow visitors to get a better understanding of both the art and science of glassmaking.\n\nThe Hot Glass Show is a demonstration where one of the museum’s glass blowers provides a live glass blowing demonstration, which is also narrated by another of the glass blowers. The Hot Glass Show is performed at the Museum, on the road, and at sea on three Celebrity Cruise ships.\n\nAt the Museum, the Hot Glass Show is offered all day, every day and is included in the cost of admission. At each demonstration, the glassmaker takes a glob of molten glass and shapes the globs into vases, bowls, or sculptures. Throughout the demonstration, a narrator describes the process, and cameras give viewers a close-up look into the furnaces where the glass is heated. The show gives viewers a look into an ancient Roman technique that is still used today for glass making. Each show lasts between 20–40 minutes.\n\nThe Museum takes the Hot Glass Show on the road, bringing the unique demonstration to the public, designers, and other museums. The Museum uses unique equipment in order to recreate the state-of-the-art studio environment. The Hot Glass Roadshow travels internationally.\n\nThe demonstration is also presented on Celebrity cruise ships, such as Celebrity Solstice, Celebrity Equinox, and Celebrity Eclipse. Each cruise ship has a hotshop on the top deck where the Museum’s glassmakers present their live glassmaking demonstrations. The demos reach more than 300,000 people each year, and the ships visit ports around the world.\n\nThe demo is a live, 15-minute narrated demonstration of glassworking at a 5,000 degree Fahrenheit gas- and oxygen-powered torch. The show is also included in the cost of admission, and is offered throughout the day in the Museum’s Glass Innovation Center. During the show, the glassmaker melts rods and tubes of glass to shape them into a variety of shapes from animals, beads, ornaments, sculptures and vessels. The flameworking technique is an ancient glass making technique, which is demonstrated at the Museum.\n\nThe Optical Fiber Demo explains how thin threads of glass can carry enormous amounts of digital information and power our high-speed information age. The demo lasts about 15 minutes, is offered every day, and is included in the cost of admission. The demonstration takes place in the museum’s Glass Innovation Center. Demonstrators show how light can be used for communication, how glass can accurately carry light signals, what glass composition will carry light signals most clearly, and how optical fiber provides us with the massive amounts of bandwidth necessary for today’s world. The presentation begins with a discussion of how man has been using light to communicate for centuries. It continues with a demonstration of total internal reflection – the basic principle behind optical fiber. In the mid-1800s, Daniel Colladon, a Swiss scientist, explained how total internal reflection allowed light to be directed along a very specific path with lively visible demonstrations that showed light following the path of a stream of falling water. Total internal reflection traps the light in the stream, and traps it the same way in a glass fiber.\n\nThe demonstration is a 15-minute demo that explores how glass breaks and why. Demonstrators show how glass can become stronger or weaker depending on how it is heated or cooled; demonstrators explain how this phenomenon affects the way it breaks. The demonstration takes place in the Windows Gallery of the Museum’s Innovation Center and the demo is included in the cost of admission.\n\nThe Studio of The Corning Museum of Glass is an internationally renowned teaching facility offering a variety of classes and workshops for new and experienced glassworkers and artists.\nThe Studio offers an Artist-in-Residence program that brings artists from around the world to Corning. Classes are held throughout the year and are taught by both American and international instructors. Methods taught include glassblowing, flameworking, kiln casting, hot sculpting, engraving, cold working, fusing, gilding, sandblasting and more. Students of The Studio benefit from using the immense resources of the world’s leading glass museum, and the Rakow Research Library.\nThe Studio also offers half-hour Make Your Own Glass workshops for Museum visitors, as well as group glassmaking experiences. Both include activities appropriate for children as young as three years old.\n\nGlassLab is the design program at the Corning Museum of Glass. GlassLab’s focus on material and process aims to help designers and artists realize new forms, functions and meanings for glass. The program is by invitation only and provides designers with rare access to explore concepts in glass. GlassLab designers come from various disciplines, such as product, graphic, and fashion design. In public \"design performances\" or private workshops, designers and glassmakers collaborate, rapidly prototyping design concepts and using the immediacy of hot glass as a catalyst for innovation.\n\nThe Corning Museum of Glass actively researches, publishes, and provides lectures about a broad range of glass topics. The museum hosts The Rakow Research Library, which houses the world’s most comprehensive collection of materials on the art and history of glass and glassmaking (and is open to the public).\n\nThe Rakow Research Library, founded as part of The Corning Museum of Glass in 1951, is a public institution that houses the world's most comprehensive collection of materials on the art and history of glass and glassmaking. The Library Collection ranges from medieval manuscripts to original works of art on paper to the latest information on techniques used by studio artists. More than 130 archives contain unique material from individual artists, galleries, companies, scholars, and organizations. The Library also presents exhibitions featuring rare items from its collection. In 1985, the Museum library was renamed the Leonard S. and Juliette K. Rakow Library in honor of Dr. and Mrs. Rakow, who gave generously to the library as well as bequeathing part of their glass collection to the Museum and endowing research grants and commissions. The collection does not circulate. However, the Library is a member of the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), an international bibliographic service, and microfiche copies of books on glass and photocopies of periodical articles can be borrowed through interlibrary loan.\n\nNot only does the Museum have an extensive library, but the Museum provides online resources such as “All About Glass,” which provides full-text articles, virtual books and videos about glass.\n\nThe Corning Museum of Glass sponsors the Rakow Grant for Glass Research, which makes available one or more annual awards totaling up to $10,000. The program is made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. and Mrs. Leonard S. Rakow, who were fellows, friends, and benefactors of the Museum. The purpose of this grant is to foster scholarly research in the history of glass and glassmaking.\n\nSince 1960, the Scientific Research Department of The Corning Museum of Glass has pioneered the application of numerous scientific techniques to the examination of historical glass artifacts and to the study of the history of glassmaking. Some of this research has focused on the Museum’s collections, but most of it has been conducted in collaboration with archaeologists and scientists from all over the world. The findings of this research have been shared in more than 190 publications on the archaeology, chemistry, and conservation of glass. Many of these publications are now out-of-print or originally appeared in sources that are no longer readily accessible.\n\nThe Museum’s searchable database brings this scholarship to the attention of scholars and scientists who might not otherwise be aware of it. Approximately one-quarter of the content is accessible in full-text format. Publications not available in full-text may be accessed through the Museum's Rakow Research Library.\n\n\n\n225419675/celebrity-eclipse-launch-these-pros-glass-act\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "883165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883165", "title": "Country codes: D–E", "text": "Country codes: D–E\n\nNew Delhi is 011\n"}
{"id": "300595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300595", "title": "Datasheet", "text": "Datasheet\n\nA datasheet, data sheet, or spec sheet is a document that summarizes the performance and other technical characteristics of a product, machine, component (e.g., an electronic component), material, a subsystem (e.g., a power supply) or software in sufficient detail that allows design engineer to understand the role of the component in the overall system. Typically, a datasheet is created by the manufacturer and begins with an introductory page describing the rest of the document, followed by listings of specific characteristics, with further information on the connectivity of the devices. In cases where there is relevant source code to include, it is usually attached near the end of the document or separated into another file.\n\nDepending on the specific purpose, a datasheet may offer an average value, a typical value, a typical range, engineering tolerances, or a nominal value. The type and source of data are usually stated on the datasheet.\n\nA datasheet is usually used for technical communication to describe technical characteristics of an item or product. It can be published by the manufacturer to help people choose products or to help use the products. By contrast, a technical specification is an explicit set of requirements to be satisfied by a material, product, or service.\n\nAn electronic datasheet specifies characteristics in a formal structure that allows the information to be processed by a machine. Such machine readable descriptions can facilitate information retrieval, display, design, testing, interfacing, verification, and system discovery. Examples include transducer electronic data sheets for describing sensor characteristics, and Electronic device descriptions in CANopen or descriptions in markup languages, such as SensorML.\n\nExamples include:\n\nA typical datasheet for an electronic component contains most of the following information: \n\n\nAlthough a datasheet may include a \"typical use\" circuit diagram, as well as programming examples in the case of programmable devices, this sort of information is often published in a separate application note, with a high level of detail.\n\nHistorically, datasheets were typically available in a databook that contained many datasheets, usually grouped by manufacturer or general type. Today, they are also available through the Internet in table form or via downloadable (usually PDF) documents.\n\nA Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Safety Data Sheet (SDS), or Product Safety Data Sheet (PSDS) is an important component of product stewardship and occupational safety and health. These are required by agencies such as OSHA in its Hazard Communication Standard, 29 C.F.R. 1910.1200. It provides workers with ways to allow them to work in a safe manner and gives them physical data (melting point, boiling point, flash point, etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid, reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment, and spill-handling procedures. The MSDSs differ from country to country, as different countries have different regulations. In some jurisdictions, it is compulsory for the SDS to state the chemical's risks, safety, and effect on the environment.\n\nThe SDSs are a commonly used classification for logging information on chemicals, chemical compounds, and chemical mixtures. The SDSs often include the safe use of the chemical and the hazardous nature of the chemical. Anytime chemicals are used these data sheets will be found.\n\nThere is a need to have an internationally recognized symbol when describing hazardous substances. Labels can include hazard symbols such as the European Union standard black diagonal cross on an orange background, used to denote a harmful substance.\n\nThe purpose of an SDS is not so that the general public will have a knowledge of how to read and understand it, but more so that it can be used in an occupational setting to allow workers to be able to work with it.\n\nData sheets and pages are available for specific properties of chemicals in Chemical elements data references: example, Melting points of the elements (data page). Specific materials have technical data in individual sheets such as Ethanol (data page): this includes subjects such as structure and properties, thermodynamic properties, spectral data, vapor pressure, etc. Other chemical data sheets are available from individual producers of chemicals, often on their web pages.\n\nData sheets for automobiles may be described under several names such as features, specs, engineering data, technical summary, etc. They help communicate the technical information about a car to potential buyers and are useful for comparisons with similar cars. They might include: critical inside and outside dimensions, weight, fuel efficiency, engine and drive train, towing capability, safety features and options, warranty, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22217253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22217253", "title": "Deutsche Fotothek", "text": "Deutsche Fotothek\n\nThe Deutsche Fotothek () is a picture library in Dresden, Germany, located in the Saxon State Library. It holds more than two million images. Its strengths are in art, architecture, music, geography, technology, the economy, and the Saxony region. Its collection came from institutions, companies and individuals such as Hermann Krone.\n\nIn 2009, the library announced that it was donating approximately 250,000 image files to Wikimedia Commons under a Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0 license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34133842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34133842", "title": "Domain registration", "text": "Domain registration\n\nDomain registration is the process of acquiring a domain name from a domain name registrar.\n\nIn 1993, the U.S. Department of Commerce, in conjunction with several public and private entities, created InterNIC to maintain a central database that contains all the registered domain names and the associated IP addresses in the U.S. (other countries maintain their own NICs (Network Information Centers) -- there's a link below that discusses Canada's system, for example). Network Solutions, a member of InterNIC, was chosen to administer and maintain the growing number of Internet domain names and IP addresses. This central database is copied to Top Level Domain (TLD) servers around the world and creates the primary routing tables used by every computer that connects to the Internet.\n\nEach ICANN-accredited registrar must pay a fixed fee of US$4,000 plus a variable fee. The sum of variable registrar fees is intended to total US$3.8 million. The competition created by the shared registration system enables end users to choose from many registrars offering a range of related services at varying prices.\n\nDomain registration information is maintained by the domain name registries, which contract with domain registrars to provide registration services to the public. An end user selects a registrar to provide the registration service, and that registrar becomes the \"designated registrar\" for the domain chosen by the user.\n\nOnly the designated registrar may modify or delete information about domain names in a central registry database. It is not unusual for an end user to switch registrars, invoking a domain transfer process between the registrars involved, that is governed by specific domain name transfer policies.\n\nWhen a registrar registers a com domain name for an end-user, it must pay a maximum annual fee of US$7.34 to VeriSign, the registry operator for com, and a US$0.18 annual administration fee to ICANN. Most domain registrars price their services and products to address both the annual fees and the administration fees that must be paid to ICANN. Barriers to entry into the bulk registrar industry are high for new companies without an existing customer base.\n\nMany registrars also offer registration through reseller affiliates. An end-user registers either directly with a registrar, or indirectly through one or more layers of resellers. As of 2010, the retail cost generally ranges from a low of about $7.50 per year to about $35 per year for a simple domain registration, although registrars often drop the price far lower – sometimes even free – when ordered with other products.\n\nThe maximum period of registration for a domain name is 10 years. Some registrars offer longer periods of up to 100 years, but such offers involve the registrar renewing the registration for their customer; the 100-year registration would not be in the official registration database.\n\nRegistration of a domain name establishes a set of Start of Authority (SOA) records in the DNS servers of the parent domain, indicating the IP address (or domain name) of DNS servers that are \"authoritative\" for the domain. This provides merely a reference for how to find the domain data – not the actual domain data.\n\nRegistration of a domain does not automatically imply the provision of DNS services for the registered domain. Most registrars do offer DNS hosting as an optional free service for domains registered through them. If DNS services are not offered, or the end-user opts out, the end-user is responsible for procuring or self-hosting DNS services. Without DNS services for the domain, the registration is essentially useless for Internet services, although this situation is often encountered with domain parking and cybersquatting.\n\nA domain name transfer is the process of changing the designated registrar of a domain name. ICANN has defined a \"Policy on Transfer of Registrations between Registrars\". The usual process of a domain name transfer is:\n\nAfter this process, the new registrar is the domain name's designated registrar. The process may take about five days. In some cases, the old registrar may intentionally delay the transfer as long as allowable. After transfer, the domain cannot be transferred again for 60 days, except back to the previous registrar.\n\nIt is unwise to attempt to transfer a domain immediately before it expires. In some cases, a transfer can take up to 14 days, meaning that the transfer may not complete before the registration expires. This could result in loss of the domain name registration and failure of the transfer. To avoid this, end users should either transfer well before the expiration date, or renew the registration before attempting the transfer.\n\nIf a domain registration expires, irrespective of the reason, it can be difficult, expensive, or impossible for the original owner to get it back. After the expiration date, the domain status often passes through several management phases, often for a period of months; usually it does not simply become generally available.\n\nThe lists appear to all use at most 16 publicly available generic TLDs (gTLDs) that existed as of December 2009, plus .us. A February 2010 ICANN zone file access concept paper explains that most country code TLD (ccTLD) registries stopped providing zone files in 2003, citing abuse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24375510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24375510", "title": "Economic and Social Data Service", "text": "Economic and Social Data Service\n\nThe Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS) is a national data archiving and dissemination service that was founded in January 2003. It is funded jointly by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and Jisc. In July 2012, the ESRC announced it will become a partner in the UK Data Service, to be established as of October 1, 2012.\n\nESDS provides access to and support for a wide range of key economic and social data in the UK. The collection covers both quantitative and qualitative data which span many different disciplines and themes.\n\nESDS service is a distributed service, based on collaboration between four key centres of expertise: UK Data Archive, Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), both based at the University of Essex; Manchester Information and Associated Services (Mimas) and Cathie Marsh Centre for Census and Survey Research (CCSR), both located at the University of Manchester.\n\nThese centres work in collaboration to acquire, process, preserve and disseminate a wide range of data across the social sciences. ESDS also provides enhanced user support and training for the secondary use of data for the research, learning and teaching communities.\n\nThe UK Data Archive is responsible for the overall direction and management of the ESDS. Within ESDS, four specialist data services provide value-added support as follows:\n\n\nStudy descriptions and online documentation, including questionnaires, of datasets can be accessed online free of charge and without registering. Access to data requires registration and uses federated access management (shibboleth) user authentication. Registered users can also download and explore/analyse online a large and growing number of datasets.\n\n"}
{"id": "29419155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29419155", "title": "Estries", "text": "Estries\n\nEstries are female vampires of Jewish folklore that were believed to prey on Hebrew citizens. The name derives from the French \"strix\", a term for a night owl. In some accounts they are considered identical with succubi: both were portrayed as beautiful, blood-thirsty female demons, with succubi thought to favor babies and young children as prey. Estries, like other vampires, needed to feed on blood to survive and were more indiscriminate in their choice of victims. Succubi were said to kill pregnant women and babies out of jealousy or spite, and to seduce (or in some cases rape) men. Estries and succubi were both said to be able to appear as humans or in spirit form at will, but Estries were also described as able to turn into birds or cats and various other animals.\n\nThe Sefer Hasidim, a book on Jewish piety, stated:\n\n1465 There are women that are called estrie... They were created at sunset [before the first Sabbath before creation]. As a result of this, they are able to change form. There was one woman who was a estrie and she was very sick and there were two women with her at night; one was sleeping and one was awake. And the sick woman stood up and loosened her hair and she was about to fly and suck the blood of the sleeping woman. And the woman who was awake screamed and woke her friend and they grabbed the sick estrie, and after this she slept. And moreover, if she had been able to grab the other woman, then she, the estrie, would have lived. Since she was not able to hurt the other woman, the estrie died, because she needs to drink the blood of living flesh. The same is true of the werewolf. And since...the estrie need to loosen their hair before they fly, one must adjure her to come with her hair bound so that she cannot go anywhere without permission. And if a estrie is injured or seen by someone, she cannot live unless she eats of the bread and salt of the one who struck her. Then her soul will return to the way it was before.<br><br>\n\n1466 There was a woman who was suspected of being a estrie, and she was injured when she appeared to a Jew as a cat and he hit her. The next day she asked him to give her some of his bread and salt, and he wanted to give it to her. An old man said to him (Ecc. 7:16) \"Be not overly righteous.\" When others have sinned one must not show kindness, for if she lives, she will harm people. Thus the Holy One, blessed be He created her for you [as a test]. \n\nEstries were believed able to fly if their hair was unbound, while binding an estrie's hair would keep it grounded.\n\nAccording to the Sefer Hasidim, estries can be injured and, while they prefer the night, it was unclear whether they were cursed to it like other vampires. Estries were considered undeterred by religious iconography, distinguishing them from other mythological demons. Estries were believed to be able to walk into holy places, and sometimes to seek prayer for healing from unsuspecting religious people seeking to do good. But blessing an Estries was considered an evil act in ancient cultures. If injured, an estrie was believed able to heal either from drinking blood or from consuming bread and salt given to them by the one who caused the injury. \n\nThough methods described for killing estries were conventional, it was believed that burial alone would not prevent an estrie from returning: it must have its mouth packed with earth, or be decapitated or burned. Later mythology attributed to estries the same vulnerabilities as are associated with other vampires: silver bullets, wooden stakes, blessed weapons and holy water.\n"}
{"id": "40799943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799943", "title": "Gafin v Kavin", "text": "Gafin v Kavin\n\nGafin NO v Kavin, an important case in South African succession law, concerned an application for a declaratory order. AJ Horwitz for the applicant; LI Goldblatt appeared as \"curator ad litem\". The applicant's attorneys were Singer, Horwitz & Robin.\n\nA husband and wife (Mr and Mrs Kavin) had a joint will, executed on March 8, 1971, and registered and accepted by the Master on July 13, 1977, saying that he and she were the sole heirs. On June 7, 1977, the husband shot and killed his wife, Denise, and two of their children, Adelle and Lance Jay; the third, Debbie-Ann, was shot through the head and blinded for life, but survived. He was intent on killing himself as well: His family, he said, \"would re-unite in heaven.\" He failed, however, in this latter endeavour, and was duly charged with three counts of murder and one count of attempted murder. The trial court found that, because he was mentally ill, he was incapable of acting in accordance with an appreciation of the wrongfulness of his acts at the time of their commission. He therefore lacked criminal capacity, and was not criminally responsible in terms of section 78(1)(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act. He was found not guilty but was detained in prison pending the decision of the State president.\n\nThe respondent and his wife had executed a joint will, under which it was provided that, in the event of the wife's predeceasing the respondent, he was to be the sole and universal heir of the deceased and the wife's estate. The executor in the estate of the deceased applied for an order declaring that the respondent was unworthy to inherit from his late wife and late children.\n\nThe court held that the applicant's contention that a person who could appreciate the wrongfulness of his act was to be regarded as being unworthy, notwithstanding the fact that he could not act in\naccordance with such appreciation, was untenable. The court decided, accordingly, in view of the trial court's finding, that the applicant had not shown that the respondent was disqualified from acquiring any benefits in terms of the deceased's will. Accordingly, he was entitled to inherit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7693822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7693822", "title": "Garry Halliday", "text": "Garry Halliday\n\nGarry Halliday is a British television series for children on the BBC from 1959 to 1962. The show starred Terence Longdon as airman Garry Halliday. The episodes were based on books by Justin Blake: Justin Blake was in fact a pseudonym for the writers John Griffith Bowen and Jeremy Bullmore.\n\nReminiscent of Biggles, Halliday was a pilot for a commercial airline, Halliday Charter Company, and flew to his adventures in an aircraft with the call sign Golf Alpha Oboe Roger George. He was assisted by co-pilot Bill Dodds, played by Terence Alexander, who was later Charlie in \"Bergerac\". The airline's control base station was Lima Foxtrot.\n\nTheir enemy was The Voice, played by Elwyn Brook-Jones, so called because he was never seen by other characters, so that at the end of each series he could escape and reappear in the next. Invisible even to his own gang, The Voice at first shone a powerful light in their faces to disguise his identity; later he used closed-circuit television.\n\nBased on the books by Justin Blake, one trailer special and two series were produced. Each episode lasted 25 minutes:\n\nSeries three hit difficulties, as actor Bill Kerr playing co-pilot Eddie Robbins replaced Terence Alexander; while Brook-Jones died half way through filming, and was replaced (without his scenes being refilmed) by an actor who looked and sounded different. Maurice Kaufmann played one of The Voice's henchmen in series three.\n\nFilming was at Ferryfield Airport in Lydd, Kent, with the offices and planes of Silver City Airways transformed for all three series.\n\nThe programme was transmitted in the Saturday afternoon teatime slot subsequently occupied by \"Doctor Who\", which started on BBC in November 1963. It was a popular slot for a family audience. In early 1963, it was used for another adventure series for children, \"The Chem. Lab. Mystery\". After the success of the first series of \"Doctor Who\", with its sci-fi content, there appeared no interest in returning to the more traditional Garry Halliday stories and the show was dropped. Only one episode survives in the BBC archives.\n\nGarry Halliday makes an appearance in \"The Black Dossier\" by Alan Moore, his name slightly altered to Gary Haliday, encountering Mina Murray and Alan Quatermain in a new spaceport in Birmingham. The Voice is mentioned in passing in a fictional document detailing The League's activities during World War II (When They Sound The Last All Clear).\n\n"}
{"id": "32034842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32034842", "title": "Gemlich letter", "text": "Gemlich letter\n\nThe Gemlich letter refers to a letter written by Adolf Hitler at the behest of Karl Mayr to Adolf Gemlich, a German army soldier. The letter, written in 1919 in response to a request for clarification on the Jewish question, is thought to be the first known piece of antisemitic writing by Hitler. The first political piece by Hitler, it is thought to have established his credentials as a radical rightist and, amongst conservative groups, as the man who could overthrow the Weimar Republic. Because the letter is the first record of Hitler's antisemitic views, and because it brought Hitler into politics, it is considered an important document in Holocaust studies.\n\nIn the letter, Hitler argues that antisemitism should be based on facts, Jews were a race and not a religious group, and that the aim for the government \"must unshakably be the removal of the Jews altogether\".\n\nHitler, who had been wounded during the First World War, returned to Munich in September 1919 to an army Intelligence and propaganda unit of the Reichswehr which was run by Captain Karl Mayr who assigned him to write a response to Adolf Gemlich's question on the army's position on the Jewish Question. Hitler's response, dated 16 September 1919, was either written by him or dictated by him and subsequently typed by another. Two copies of the letter are thought to exist. One in the Bavarian state archives in Munich which is typewritten but unsigned, and the second at the Simon Wiesenthal Center, also typewritten but signed by Hitler. The second version, now believed to be the original, was discovered in a Nuremberg archive by a GI, Arthur Ziegler, who brought it to the United States where it ended up in a private collection. In 1990, Charles Hamilton, the handwriting expert, authenticated the signature on the letter and, in 2011 it was purchased by the Simon Wiesenthal Center.\n"}
{"id": "53035773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53035773", "title": "George Armour", "text": "George Armour\n\nGeorge Armour (April 24, 1812 - June 13, 1881) was a Scottish American businessman and philanthropist who transformed the global distribution process for commodities. He is credited with developing the grain elevator system, establishing grain trading standards as director and president of the Chicago Board of Trade (CBT), founding the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad (CBQ), Commercial Club of Chicago , YMCA of Chicago, Merchants' Loan & Trust Company (MLTC), the precursor to Continental Illinois, and the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts which later became the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and Art Institute of Chicago. He served as a director of several notable companies during his career.\n\nAs founder of Armour, Dole & Co and other firms, he created the first extensive system of large mechanized grain elevators in Chicago and thus enabled the shipment of grains from the American Midwest to destinations all over the world. During his tenure, the CBT standardized the grading and selling of grains and established the first commodity futures markets. He was \"popularly known as the father of the grain elevator system\" or as a \"rapacious, blood sucking insect.\"\n\nGeorge Armour was born on April 24, 1812 in Campbeltown,Scotland, on the Mull of Kintyre.\nArmour was a wheelwright and worked his way across the ocean as a shipboard cooper or carpenter.\n\nIn 1834, Armour with his brother John and cousin James a shoemaker, left Campbeltown and made a voyage to Ottawa, Illinois.\nSoon after their arrival in Ottawa, the brothers went north to what was then known as the \"Argyle Settlement\" near Rockford, Illinois.\nThe brothers built a 14' x 14' cabin in hopes of establishing a timber and prairie land claim, but \"farming was not to their liking.\"\n\nIn 1836, while on a trip to back to Scotland, the brothers helped their friend John Greenlee and his family escape from Campbeltown in order to avoid Greenlee being arrested by one of the Duke of Argyll's tax collectors.\nAfter the escape, the brothers furnished the Greenlees with passage to the US and set up the Greenlees in the cabin they had built in the Argyle Settlement. Subsequently, Armour lived in Joliet and Lockport, Illinois and entered the business of merchandising.\nAt the time, both cities were expanding rapidly because of the construction of the Illinois and Michigan Canal. \nLockport became headquarters for building the canal in 1837.\nLater Armour became a sub-contractor with George Steel. Steel was born in Forfarshire, Scotland in 1797 and arrived in Chicago in 1837. Steel had come to the US on contract for building a section of the Illinois & Michigan Canal but the work had stopped in the aftermath of the Panic of 1837. \nSteel and Armour built a section of the Illinois and Michigan Canal sometime between 1836 and 1848.\nThey also built a portion of the CBQ. The railroad was constructed starting in March 1848 and was completed in 1853.\nArmour was a contractor for 16 miles (out of 181 miles) of road grading for the ROCK which started construction in 1851 and was completed by 1854. Armour most likely also worked on the Galena and Chicago Union Railroad - the first railroad built west of Chicago and a highly profitable venture that established William B. Ogden and George Smith as major figures in Chicago history. Smith operated a \"wildcat bank\" that issued scrip which was used to pay workers - including Armour's employees.\n\nIn the early 1850s, Armour resettled in Chicago. His brother John Armour remained in Ottawa where he became a successful businessman. Of John Armour's many investments, one that remains is Armour's Warehouse built in 1861. In contrast, George Armour - in the following thirty years - went from being a foreman to being one of the richest and most influential businessmen in America.\n\nIn Chicago, Armour reunited with George Steel - who had become a prosperous Chicago businessman. In 1852-1853 Steel was president of Chicago Board of Trade. In 1856, a new three-story building was erected on Steel's site: an office and warehouse located at the foot of LaSalle Street on South Street and this became the first permanent home for the CBT. Armour was an early member of the CBT and also commenced what became his signature venture - the erection and management of grain elevators.\n\nPrior to Armour's efforts there had been a small number of what may be termed \"grain elevators\" constructed in the United States. Dart's Elevator was the world's first steam-powered grain elevator. It was designed and built by Joseph Dart and Robert Dunbar in 1842 in Buffalo, New York.\nThe first large steam elevator ever built in Chicago for handling grain from railroad tracks was on the North side, on the Chicago River, west of Wells Street. It was built by George A Gibbs and E W Griffin of Gibbs, Griffin & Company in 1854. It might also have been known as the Chicago & Galena Union Railroad Elevator. \n\nIn 1854 George Steel took over a warehouse and built another grain elevator just west of the Gibbs, Griffin and Company warehouse. It was capable of operating from the canal as well as the railroads. The elevator had a capacity of 100,000 bushels and was located at Franklin and River streets - in the Chicago & Galena Union Railroad track on North Water Street.\n\nIn that year Steel's warehouse burnt down and Steel sold the property to Wesley Munger and George Armour. Munger had owned a small mill at Waukegan, which had burned down. As Munger & Armour, they built the first modern, steam-driven grain elevator in Chicago. The grain elevator was completed in 1855 and had a capacity of 300,000 bushels.\n\nArmour's influence as a Chicago businessman grew and Armour was first elected a director of the CBT in 1856.\n\nIn 1860 he joined with Charles Sydney Dole, James Henry Doyle and Wesley Munger and they formed Armour, Dole & Co. The company operated grain elevators at the depot of the CBQ with a capacity of 850,000 bushels. After the American Civil War, Armour, Dole & Co. remained among the city's leading grain warehousers. Their elevators had a combined capacity of 2.1 million bushels in 1871. By the early 1880s, this figure had grown to 6.3 million bushels.\n\nIn 1863, Hiram Wheeler entered the Munger & Armour, which then became Munger, Wheeler & Co. Armour remained a partner. The company owned large grain elevators next to the depot of the Chicago & North Western Railroad.\n\nAt the Chicago Canal Convention of 1863, Armour was a member of the CBT delegation. \nThe Convention proceedings called for laws and budgets to widen and deepen the Illinois and Michigan Canal and thus make it possible for ships to sail between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River.\n\nIn order to succeed with a vision of moving of very numerous bushels of grain, Armour needed more than steam powered conveyor belts. He needed:\n\n\nThrough the 1830s sacks or barrels or even buckets of grain were hoisted off vessels and into warehouses by manpower - sometimes even using bucket brigades. The amounts of grain being moved in a contract were measured in the thousands of bushels. By the 1840s a certain amount of bulk transport was taking place and grain was stored in individual bins according to source in warehouses and the heavy lifting was done by block and tackle pulled by horses. By 1848 the horse was replaced by a steam engine, but not the block and tackle. The amounts being moved were in the tens of thousands of bushels. If the transport of grain was to move into the hundreds of thousands of bushels then changes were needed.\n\nWhen grains from multiple sources were to be co-mingled in silos holding hundred of thousands of bushels, then methods of grading and inspecting the quality of the grain are required. The CBT had been concerned with grading and inspecting products since the day it was founded. In 1856 Armour was elected to the Board of Directors of the CBT. In the same year, his partner Charles Dole was charged to set up a committee with the purpose of establishing grades by the separation of wheat into three industry-standard grades. By 1858 the grading and inspecting standards were established and compliance mechanisms set up. In 1859, the CBT received a state charter that enabled it to enforce grading standards and inspections with a legally binding basis. \n\nIn banking, the period 1837 to 1863 is known as the \"Free Banking\" era. It was a period of \"Wildcat Banks\". In the Panic of 1837, out of 850 banks in the United States, 343 closed entirely, 62 failed partially. If Armour's business was to prosper, he needed a bank that would not fail. In 1857, along with Cyrus McCormick, who invented the reaper, and Chicago's first mayor, William B. Ogden, Armour was a founder and, later, elected director of the Merchants' Loan and Trust Company. The book published by MLTC in 1907 titled \"Fifty Years of Banking in Chicago\" identified the banks' early mission:\n\nIn 1865 the CBT recognized the futures contract as a legitimate feature of trades and full rules were first established. Given the increase in pricing certainty around the globe, Chicago grain elevator operators became free to construct grain elevators with capacities of millions of bushels.\n\nWhile the above three conditions may have been paramount in developing the grain warehousing business, there were a number of other hurdles to be cleared. The technology for moving grain had to improve and he development or trains, vessels and conveyors continued its rapid progress in typical nineteenth century fashion. Perhaps the most significant less obvious aspect was that the site and logistics planning for the warehouses needed to be just right: warehouses needed to have navigable water on one side and railroads on the other side. The navigable waters needed to give vessels access to any other port in the world. The railroads needed to reach tens of thousands of farms to the west as well to the major consumer cities on the East coast.\n\nArmour fully recognized the site and logistics planning needs. He was a supporter of the railroads and was a stockholder in the CBQ, the Chicago & Northwestern, and the Chicago Milwaukee and St Paul Railroads. Later he was a director of the ROCK. He was probably one of the few shareholders that had actually laid track. On the canal side, at the Chicago Canal Convention of 1863, Armour was a member of the CBT delegation - most likely one of the few members that had actually dug a canal.\n\nBecause of the likelihood of dust explosions, grain warehouses were frequent venues for fires. Armour also foresaw the need for fully funded insurance. He was a local director of the Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Company, a director of the Chicago Mutual Insurance Company and a director of the Merchants Insurance Company.\n\nBy 1870 the remaining impediments to growth were less about the technology and more about legal and political matters. In 1870 the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported:\n\nThe Great Chicago Fire \"was a conflagration that burned from Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871. The fire killed up to 300 people, destroyed roughly 3.3 square miles (9 km2) of Chicago, Illinois, and left more than 100,000 residents homeless.\" Armour and his partners apparently came through physically unscathed but their various business affairs were totally disrupted. The offices of Armour, Dole and Co, Munger & Wheeler were destroyed as well as Armour, Dole & Co Elevator \"A\", the MLTC offices, the Merchants Insurance Company offices - which were exploded to make a fire break that failed - and the CBT offices.\n\nThe story of how the MLTC was able to move the bank's funds at the height of the fire is well-described in \"The Advancement of Chicago as a Financial Center up to the Close of the Nineteenth Century\". Also described was the setting up of an improvised bank in Solomon A Smith's dining room on Monday, October 9 and recreating all the accounts even with all the banks and most of the customer's records had been destroyed.\n\nThe Munn & Scott affair occurred, starting in 1872. See below.\n\nIn 1875, Armour was elected president of the CBT. During his tenure, on January 14, the King of Hawaii visited the CBT trading floor and a racist incident occurred. It was covered in detail by the \"Chicago Tribune\". Also during the year, for the first time, memberships could be bought and sold and a committee was instituted to report of the recommendation of situating a US mint in Chicago. The report was an added as an appendix to the CBT annual report.\n\nThere were few further impediments to growth. By 1885, the capacity of the Armour, Dole & Co grain elevators was 6,350,000 bushels with a total shipping and receiving capacity of 1,500,000 per day. \n\nThe Munn & Scott grain-warehousing company was founded in 1844 in Spring Bay, Illinois, north of Peoria. By 1856, Ira Y. Munn and his partners owned a large Chicago grain elevator with a capacity of 200,000 bushels. George L. Scott joined the enterprise in 1858, and the name was changed name to Munn & Scott. By the end of the Civil War, the company owned four Chicago grain elevators with a total capacity of 2.3 million bushels, nearly a third of the total capacity of all of the city's large elevators.\n\nMunn served as president of the Chicago Board of Trade and as president of the city's Chamber of Commerce in 1868. Annual revenues reached about $4 million in 1867; by 1870, the company ranked as the city's leading grain warehouse.\n\nBy 1868 Munn & Scott and four other firms - including Armour, Dole and Co - dominated the Chicago grain elevator landscape. They were interlocked in a business pool, each owning part interest in each of the others.\nTherefore, they could fix prices and carry out dirty tricks that included fraudulent grading, dishonest weighing, mixing grades, restricting competition, hiding storage information, and issuing false receipts.\nJoseph Medill, whose newspaper made warehouse regulation its cause, put it colorfully:\n\nThe Munn & Scott firm was both a prime cause of complaints and a leader in the fight against effective control by the CBT.<br>\nIn the summer of 1872, the firm was exposed as having massively cheated clients using multiple methods. It was learned that Munn & Scott grain receipts totaling 300,000 bushels were not backed by grain.<br>\nHad the Munn & Scott matter had been allowed to take its course, it would have created a panic which would have extended throughout the whole Northwest. Armour, a silent partner in the firm, could probably have entirely escaped, or evaded, any personal responsibility in the matter. Instead, Armour purchased the Munn interests for $10 and quietly set about purchasing grain to make its receipts good.\n\nWhen a reporter from \"The Tribune\" interviewed him on the subject, Armour declined to say anything in reference to it, but requested as a special favor that no noise be made about it in the paper. He had merely done his duty, he said, and it might interfere with the country's business if it were written up in the newspapers.\n\n<br>\nBy this time, the Munn & Scott firm had gone bankrupt in a grain speculation deal, and Ira Munn and George Scott both found that they were now strictly employees of Armour himself.\n\nIn the same year, Munn & Scott was charged with violating new Illinois regulations that enabled the state to inspect and regulate the elevators. Munn and his company achieved their most lasting fame in 1876–77, when the US Supreme Court in \"Munn v. Illinois\" rejected Munn's argument that the state had no right to regulate privately owned enterprises such as grain elevators.\n\nFollowing the demise of Munn & Scott and the enactment of new laws and the addition to CBT regulations, the dislike of the \"warehousemen\" seemed to diminish. There continued to be fraudulent behaviors and attempts were made to corner markets but these appear to have been more the actions of rogue individuals and not due to underlying structural flaws in the warehousing system.\n\nArmour married Barbara Allison (1826–1898) in the early 1850s. She was born in Aberdeen, Scotland and emigrated to Chicago when she was very young. Their first son John was born in 1851. The first Armour home was on Michigan Avenue near Monroe Street.\n\nThe Great Chicago Fire disrupted Armour's personal life. He lost his house, his church, his children's school. He also lost civic projects he had dedicated much time to, including the YMCA, the Seaman's Bethel and Chicago Academy of Design.\n\nAfter the Chicago Fire, the family built and moved into a new house at 1945 South Prairie Avenue in 1872. They also had a summer house in Waukegan, IL.\n\nWhile on a voyage to Europe – made with the hope of improving his health – Armour died of rheumatism of the heart in Brighton, England on June 13, 1881. His body was returned to the US and he was buried at Graceland Cemetery in Chicago.\n\nBy the 1850s, the population of Chicago grew to over 110,000 inhabitants. As with many groups of people this size, the population included artisans, artists and art patrons.\n\nExamples of a love of the arts in Chicago at the time include:\n\nThe Armours become associated with this artistic milieu by becoming collectors and patrons. Their son John Armour died on May 16, 1865 of a rheumatic heart condition. Some time before that, John's portrait was painted by Healy. Prior to his death, the Armours traveled to Europe hoping to cure John. While in Europe a bas-relief bust of John was sculpted. Also on that voyage a portrait of Barbara Allison Armour was painted by Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema in London in 1865.\n\nAlso of note, Armour's partner James H Dole had been very active with the Chicago Academy of Design, was a founder of the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts and supported the Art Institute until his death in 1902.\n\nThe culmination of this participation is that Armour was a founder and elected first President of the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts in 1879. The Academy changed its name to the Art Institute of Chicago in 1882.\n\nThe background in the creation of the Art Institute is complex. The formation of the Institute and its origins in the Chicago Academy of Design are detailed by A T Andreas in his \"History of Chicago - From the Earliest Period to the Present Time\". A darker side of the takeover of assets is covered by Joel S. Dryer in a presentation titled \"The Story You Don't Know About A Place We All Love\" delivered to The Chicago Literary Club May 14, 2001. Further investigations has been carried out by Kirsten M. Jensen in her book: \"The American Salon: The Art Gallery at the Chicago Interstate Industrial Exposition, 1873--1890\".\n\nArmour was active with the Second Presbyterian Church and along with his good friend Norman Williams - a prominent Chicago lawyer. \nHe was a Trustee and an Elder of the church. The first church was destroyed in the Chicago Fire of 1871. A new church was completed by 1874. Armour donated the tower which was completed in 1884 after Armour's death.\n\nArmour donated $500 toward the construction of the Willow Creek Presbyterian Church in Argyle, IL in 1877.\n\nOn March 22, 1858, Chicagoans again gathered in an attempt to form a YMCA. After a series of meetings, a constitution was written and the first YMCA of Chicago was officially formed. Armour was a founder and trustee of the YMCA of Chicago.\n\nArmour was a founder and member of the Commercial Club of Chicago in 1878. A group of successful Chicago businessmen, the Commercial Club promoted the economic development of the city. The Commercial Club patterned itself after traditional civic improvement clubs, holding regular meetings to discuss pertinent reform issues of the day.\n\nArmour dedicated a - his birthplace - in 1881. See below.\n\nArmour was attacked in during the elections of 1857. Widespread \"rioting and knockdowns\" were reported in the predominantly Irish-Democratic 7th Ward in the final days of the March 2, 1857 mayoral election. The \"Illinois Police & Sheriff's News\" described the event as follows:\nThe only political position Armour ever held was that of elector in the Electoral College for the Hayes ticket in 1876. Special attention was called to him at the time, from the fact that his right to hold the place was challenged. It was alleged that he'd never been naturalized and consequently was ineligible. If true this would have lost Illinois one of her votes and tied the result in the Electoral College. After some difficulty, however, Armour was able to find a record of his naturalization, and he cast his vote along with his colleagues, for Hayes and Wheeler.\n\nThe inscription reads: \"the gift of George Armour, Esq, of Chicago US, a native of this town, 1881\"\n\nThe tower and bell were donated to the church and dedicated to George Armour by his family in 1884.\n\nGeorge Armour was buried at Graceland Cemetery in Chicago.\n\n\nGeorge Armour was a pioneer in many ways. Many of the tasks he and close colleagues initiated and became involved with continue to exist and have repercussions to this day.\n\nVery frequently George Armour has been taken to be a brother or relative of Philip Danforth Armour.\n\nExamples of web sites and books that erroneously indicate that George Armour was closely related to Philip Danforth Armour include the following:\n\nFor better or worse we have high-fructose corn syrup as a legacy to Armour's and the CBT's efforts for setting up grading standards for grains.\nMichael Pollan, American author, journalist, activist, and professor of journalism at the UC Berkeley wrote in his best-seller \"The Omnivore's Dilemma\":\n\n\"Zea mays\" is the predominant type of corn used to created high-fructose corn syrup.\n\nThe CBT authorized the futures contract for wheat in 1865 - a world first. Today, futures are bought and sold for many commodities in exchanges around the world. And the CBT is a component of the largest traders of futures contracts:\n\nIn 1876, while Armour was president of the CBT, membership in the CBT went from being \"by invitation only\" to being memberships or a \"sear\" that could be bought and sold.\n\nThe practice of buying and selling seats is now followed all many exchanges and the price of a seat on the CBT has increased.\nNot all of Armour's efforts ended up with the legacies that he might have wanted. Armour's and his partners' goals in founding MLTC was to set up under the charter of being a very safe and secure banking operation. Under this charter the bank grew for decades, eventually the bank grew to be the biggest bank in Chicago and among the biggest in the US - Continental Illinois. Unfortunately in the late eighties the bank started growing so big and too fast that it failed. The Federal Reserve saved Continental Illinois - because it was \"too big to fail\".\n\nWhen the King of Hawaii visited the CBT trading floor on January 14, 1875, the traders in the pits began to sing a song titled \"The King of Cannibal Island\". Armour repeatedly banged his gavel and shouted \"Shame!\" to little avail. To this day brokers and trading bits remain as venues where racism and discrimination continue to exist - regardless of management attempts to stop this behavior.\nHaving taken part building some of the first railroads and canals in the US, Armour understood the need for systems that would enable the movement of bulk materials around the world. He always built his warehouses at the junctions between the two modes of transport. Today grain elevators are still built between navigable waters and railroad lines. And, even more impressive, the container terminals of the world - \"where cargo containers are transshipped between different transport vehicles, for onward transportation\" - all follow the same planning that George Armour used.\n\nJust at the beginning of the Civil War, a meeting was called by CBT with the express purpose of funding the establishment of a brigade to support the Union side. Most of the units were infantry, but there were also zouaves and cavalry. In those days the most prestigious units were cavalry. Given that CBT members were among the most prosperous men of the city, it might seen logical that they would sponsor a cavalry unit, but no they formed an artillery unit - a unit that could use products made in Chicago by their own members. The legacy is that today we call this the military-industrial complex - \"an informal alliance between a nation's military and the arms industry which supplies it, seen together as a vested interest which influences public policy. A driving factor behind this relationship between the government and defense-minded corporations is that both sides benefit--one side from obtaining war weapons, and the other from being paid to supply them.\"\n\nArmour was a devout Presbyterian and an elder of his church. The development of his business, however, depended on people of all faiths who were healthy in \"mind, body and spirit\". An early effort to provide education, fitness and development that superseded religious boundaries was the YMCA. Armour was a trustee of Farwell Hall - which housed the early Chicago YMCA - in 1861 and then he was elected a director of the YMCA itself in 1867. Today the YMCA of Metro Chicago has 23 centers, five camps and hundreds of extension sites to meet the changing needs of the more than 200,000 members served every year.\n\nHe also seems to have been involved with the what is now the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church - Chicago's third oldest Black church.\nIn the 19th century, The cities of the East Coast built museums that imported European works and work by Americans who had been educated in Europe. From the get go, Chicago committed to patronizing art created by American artists. In 1879, with Armour as its first president, the Art Institute of Chicago was founded as a museum built upon an art school - the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. The school trained students to create art, the museum displayed their work. This example has been followed by few other cities. Nonetheless today the Art Institute is the second largest museum in the United States and at the same time the school is one of top graduate art schools in the US.\nEven though Armour became one of the richest men of his era he never forgot the heritage of his humble roots. His sense of history covered what preceded his life and what happened after his life. He was a significant contributor to the construction of the Willow Creek Church in Argyle IL where he had spent the summer of 1836 building he 14' x 14' log cabin. He returned to Campbeltown in the 1880s and donated the funds to build a fountain. In helping create the Art Institute, the grain warehousing business and associated transportation, Armour was part of creating the American heritages of the future, but he never forgot his own humble roots.\n\nAndreas' \"History of Chicago\", the MLTC's \"Fifty Years of Banking in Chicago\", Taylor's \"History of the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago\", the \"Encyclopaedia of Biography of Illinois\" provide biographies for hundreds of Chicago individuals, but none of these works - even when they mention him many times - include a biography for George Armour.\n\nIn helping the Greenlees escape the avaricious tax collector, in making good Munn & Scott's bogus receipts so farmers would not get hurt and banging his gavel hard when there's a racist incident occurring in the trading pit, we have a glimpse of a man living the American way.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53636643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53636643", "title": "GlobalVision", "text": "GlobalVision\n\nGlobalVision is a SaaS software company specializing in packaging and labelling.\n\nGlobal Vision Inc. (GlobalVision) was founded in 1990 by Reuben Malz. It is headquartered in Montreal, Canada, and has regional offices in the UK and Germany. GlobalVision is an enterprise software company that develops and designs desktop and SaaS proofreading solutions for brand companies and their supply chains worldwide.\n\nIn 2013 Pfizer contracted with GlobalVision for packaging quality control. \n\nGlobalVision introduced its first web-based Quality Control Platform, QCanywhere, in 2013. This was followed by the introduction of a more advanced version of the platform, Proofware, in 2014. In 2017, GlobalVision released a desktop Quality Control Platform.\n\nGlobalVision is certified. GlobalVision's proofreading solutions meet the FDA 21 CFR Part 11 / Annex 11 requirements, which states that requirements for the technical and procedural controls that must be met by the regulated user if the regulated user chooses to maintain regulated records electronically. Part 11 was published in March 1997. GlobalVision text comparison software has also met the compliance requirements set by the EMA (European Medecines Agency).\n"}
{"id": "7183237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7183237", "title": "Grand Larousse encyclopédique", "text": "Grand Larousse encyclopédique\n\nThe Grand Larousse encyclopédique en dix volumes (\"Big Larousse encyclopedia in ten volumes\") is a French encyclopedic dictionary published by Larousse between February 1960 and August 1964, with two later supplements that update the content to 1975.\n\nIt is both a dictionary, focusing on the study and the presentation of the words of the French language, and an encyclopaedia, covering all branches of knowledge. In 1971, Larousse began publishing the much larger 20-volume \"Grande Encyclopédie Larousse\", with functional dictionary entries diminished, and regular encyclopedia articles greatly expanded.\n\nIn May 2008, Larousse launched its encyclopedia online. In addition to the verified content from the paper encyclopedia, it is open to external contributors. Each article is signed by a single author who remains the only one authorized to make modifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1734414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1734414", "title": "Hite v. Fairfax", "text": "Hite v. Fairfax\n\nHite v. Fairfax, (Original Case Citation: 4 Call 42) 8 Va. 42 (1786) was a case decided by the Supreme Court of Virginia that upheld the original title of land granted to Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron over what was known as the Northern Neck of Virginia, a large tract of land located between the headwaters of the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers claimed by Jost Hite. Future Chief Justice of the United States John Marshall successfully represented the successors of Fairfax to the title. The land currently makes up what is currently considered Northern Virginia and the Fairfax namesake county, Fairfax County, comprises the majority of this land. \n\nMarshall represented the tenants of Lord Fairfax, and won his case. From this time, as an examination of Call's Virginia Reports, which cover the period, shows, he maintained the leadership of the bar of Virginia. \n\nThe case is available in Virginia Reports--Jefferson-33 Gratten--1730-1880--Call's Reports Volumes 1-6, page 646\n\nMarshall's argument at the bar is available here beginning in the third paragraph with \"Marshall, for such of the tenants...\"\n"}
{"id": "47663700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47663700", "title": "Hōko (doll)", "text": "Hōko (doll)\n\nA is a kind of soft-bodied doll given to young women of age and especially to pregnant women in Japan to protect both mother and unborn child. Traditionally, \"hōko\" dolls were made of silk and human hair, and stuffed with cotton. The dolls could be made for both boys and girls. Boys' dolls would be given up and \"consecrated\" at a shrine when boys turned fifteen, while girls would give up their dolls at marriage. The dolls were given to children either at birth, or on special days shortly after birth.\n\nModern day \"hōko\" dolls have been created with technology to monitor babies.\n\n\"Hōko\" can be traced back to \"talismanic figures\" from early Japanese history, and are likely related to the concept of using paper dolls (\"hina\"), as \"stand-ins for people.\" The use of \"katashiro\" (“substitutes”) in spiritual practice as stand-ins to take on the brunt of a person's sins or misfortune also played a role in the creation of \"hōko\" dolls.\n\n\"Amagatsu\" (; derivation unclear), are another type of doll similar in function to the \"hōko\" doll, documented back to at least the 11th century with a mention in \"The Tale of Genji\". These were originally made of wood or bamboo, with the body and arms traditionally in a \"T\" shape and with a round head attached on top. Sources mentioning the specific term \"hōko\" start appearing in the Heian period, but are more apparent in the Muromachi period of Japan's history. In later years, the \"amagatsu\" and \"hōko\" dolls became essentially the same thing, with the dolls more commonly made out of cloth and other soft materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "41418491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41418491", "title": "Jaysh al-Muwahhideen", "text": "Jaysh al-Muwahhideen\n\nThe Jaysh al-Muwahhideen or Jaysh Abu Ibrahim () is a Druze militant group in Syria. Their name means \"Army of Monotheists\" or \"Army of Unitarians\". The group mainly operates in the Suwayda, Deraa, Damascus and other regions where the Druze are concentrated and announced their formation in the beginning of 2013. The leadership describes the group as \"Unitarian Druze\" engaging in defensive jihad, but has also been described as supporters of Bashar al-Assad and his government. It operates largely in Jabal al-Arab or Mountain of the Arabs, also known as Jabal ad-Druze, a mountainous area of Suwayda governorate as well as the Jabal al-Sheikh area in Damascus governorate, areas primarily inhabited by Druze. The group was set up in response to attacks on Druze civilians. The group commemorates anti-colonial figures such as Sultan al-Atrash, who was a prominent Druze chieftain.\n\n"}
{"id": "29899692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29899692", "title": "John Barclay (anatomist)", "text": "John Barclay (anatomist)\n\nJohn Barclay FRSE FRCPE FRCSE FLS MWS (10 December 1758 – 21 August 1826) was an eminent Scottish comparative anatomist, extramural teacher in anatomy, and director of the Highland Society of Scotland.\n\nHe was born in Cairn, Perthshire 10 December 1758, the son of a farmer, and nephew of John Barclay, who established the Berean Church.\n\nHe was educated at Muthill parish school.\n\nBarclay initially studied divinity at the University of St Andrews, and served as a minister. Then working as a family tutor, he educated himself in biological topics and anatomy. Pupils of his entered the University of Edinburgh in 1789, and Barclay became an assistant there to John Bell the anatomist, and was also associated with his brother Charles Bell. His employer Sir James Campbell financed the completion of his medical course.\n\nBarclay qualified M.D. at Edinburgh, before studying anatomy under Andrew Marshall for a year in London. He returned to Edinburgh and established himself as an anatomical lecturer in 1797. Until 1825 he delivered two complete courses of human anatomy, a morning and an evening one, every winter session, and for several years before his death gave a summer course on comparative anatomy. His classes gradually grew in reputation; in 1804 he was formally recognised as a lecturer on anatomy and surgery by the Edinburgh College of Surgeons, and in 1806 he became a fellow of the Edinburgh College of Physicians.\n\nWhen a new chair of comparative anatomy for the University of Edinburgh was proposed in 1816, Barclay was the leading candidate. However, the proposal was defeated by the concerted opposition of a number of the incumbent medical professors, led by John Hope, Robert Jameson and Alexander Monro, tertius, who feared the new chair would encroach on their own prerogatives. This episode provided the subject of a memorable caricature by John Kay.\n\nBarclay supported his former pupil William Dick when he established his Dick Veterinary School.\n\nFor the final two years of his life Barclay was too ill to teach, during which his classes were carried on by Robert Knox, another former pupil.\n\nHe died at Argyll Square in Edinburgh on 21 August 1826, and was buried in Restalrig Churchyard on the east side of the city.\n\nBarclay contributed the article \"Physiology\" to the third edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica (1797). He developed ideas for a nomenclature of human anatomy based on scientific principles in \"A New Anatomical Nomenclature\" (1803). In 1808 he published a treatise on \"The Muscular Motions of the Human Body\", arranged according to regions and systems, and with applications to surgery. This was followed in 1812 by his \"Description of the Arteries of the Human Body\", the result of original study and dissection. A second edition appeared in 1820.\n\nHe furnished descriptive matter to a series of plates illustrating the human skeleton and the skeletons of some animals, engraved by Edward Mitchell of Edinburgh in 1819–20. Several of his lectures on anatomy were published posthumously in 1827. Another work was \"An Inquiry into the Opinions, Ancient and Modern, concerning Life and Organisation\", published in 1822. In this work Barclay gives a spirited defense of vitalism against a catalogue of thinkers he considered to be advocates of materialistic theories of life, including Erasmus Darwin, William Lawrence and Jean-Baptiste Fray. The noted Scottish zoologist and geologist John Fleming wrote that \"Concerning Life and Organization\" \"should be perused with care by every student of Anatomy and Natural History, as an effective preservative against the doctrines of Materialism\".\n\nHe wrote \"Remarks on Mr. John Bell's Anatomy of the heart & arteries\" under the name \"Jonathan Dawplucker, Esq.\"\n\nBarclay married Eleanora, daughter of his former employer Sir James Campbell of Aberuchill, in 1811.\n\nBarclay gave his large collection of specimens to the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in 1821, under the condition that a suitable hall be built to display all the materials together, associated with his name. In 1828 his collection became the Barcleian Museum. It can now be seen at Surgeons' Hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11410232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11410232", "title": "King Center for Nonviolent Social Change", "text": "King Center for Nonviolent Social Change\n\nThe Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change is a nongovernmental, not-for-profit organization founded in 1968 by Coretta Scott King. King started the organization in the basement of the couple's home in the year following the 1968 assassination of her husband, Martin Luther King Jr.\n\nIn 1981, the center's headquarters were moved into the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site, a multimillion-dollar facility on Auburn Avenue which includes King's birth home and the Ebenezer Baptist Church, where he preached from 1960 until his death.\n\nIn 1977, a memorial tomb was dedicated, and the remains of Martin Luther King Jr. were moved from South View Cemetery to the plaza that is nestled between the center and the church. Martin Luther King Jr.'s gravesite and a reflecting pool are also located next to Freedom Hall. Mrs. King was interred with her husband on February 7, 2006.\n\nAs of 2012, The King Center's current President and CEO is King's youngest child, Bernice King. Located in Atlanta, Georgia, the organization carries out initiatives on both the domestic and international level. The Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change is dedicated to research, education and training in the principles, philosophy and methods of Kingian nonviolence.\n\nThe Martin Luther King, Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize is awarded by the King Center.\n\nPrevious recipients include Rosa Parks, Desmond Tutu, and Mikhail Gorbachev.\n\n"}
{"id": "608277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608277", "title": "LEO (website)", "text": "LEO (website)\n\nLEO (meaning \"Link Everything Online\") is an Internet-based electronic dictionary and translation dictionary initiated by the computer science department of the Technical University of Munich in Germany. After a spin-out, the dictionaries have been run since 3 April 2006 by the limited liability company Leo GmbH, formed by the members of the original Leo team, and are partially funded by commercial advertising on the website. Its dictionaries can be consulted free online from any web browser or from LEO's \"Lion\" downloadable user interface (GUI) which is free since version 3.0 (released 13 January 2009) to private users only and no longer sold as shareware. Corporate users and research institutions are however required to purchase a licence.\n\nThe website hosts eight free German language based bilingual dictionaries and forums for additional language queries. The dictionaries are characterized by providing translations in forms of hyperlinks to further dictionary queries, thereby facilitating back translations. The dictionaries are partly added to and corrected by large vocabulary donations of individuals or companies, partly through suggestions and discussions on the LEO language forums.\n\nFor any of the eight foreign languages, there's at least one (in the cases of English and French two) qualified employee in charge (whose mother tongue is either German and who has studied the respective other idiom or vice versa). These employees oversee the above-mentioned donations and suggestions before integrating them in the dictionary. Thus an entry can never be simply made by a registered user. These registered users, on the other hand, have the possibility to communicate in the eight different forums where native German speakers and the other native speakers collaborate alike, providing help with finding idiomatic equivalents for phrases or texts etc.\n\nAll the eight dictionaries' user interfaces can be viewed either in German or in the respective language.\n\nThe English-German dictionary run by Leo since 1995 contains around 800,000 entries and receives an average of 11 million queries per weekday.\n\nIn 2004, a French–German dictionary was added to the site's services and has about 257,000 entries. This one gets about 2.6 million queries each weekday.\n\nA Spanish–German dictionary with about 208,000 entries was introduced on 3 April 2006. It gets about 2 million queries each weekday.\n\nAn Italian-German was started on 3 April 2008. At the time of the public launch, the dictionary contained about 140,000 entries and received 77,000 queries on the first day. Today it contains about 200,000 entries and receives an average of 1.1 million queries each weekday.\n\nThe Chinese–German dictionary was started on the same date as the Italian–German dictionary, 3 April 2008. Queries can be entered by using Pinyin, or traditional or simplified characters. The dictionary started with about 65,000 entries and received about 93,000 queries on the first day. Today it contains about 195,000 entries and receives an average of 240,000 queries each weekday.\nDue to text encoding limitations, the Chinese dictionary cannot be used in the interface.\n\nOn 18 February 2009, LEO announced a forthcoming release of a German–Russian dictionary. The starter database has been provided in collaboration with ABBY Europe GmbH, the producers of the Lingvo dictionary brand.\n\nThe new dictionary became publicly available on 12 April 2010 after a couple of testing days . It started with 77,934 entries and received 38,800 queries on 13 April 2010. As the dictionary only went online in the evening it only received 3,607 queries on its first day.\n\nToday it contains about 300,000 entries and receives an average of 370,000 queries each weekday.\n\nA dictionary for the Portuguese language was announced in early 2011 and first launched in January 2013. As of September 2018, it contains more than 100,000 entries, receiving about 210,000 queries each weekday.\n\nIn 2013, a Polish-German dictionary was started which contains over 64,000 entries by September 2017 and receives almost 80,000 queries every weekday.\n\nThe site grew out of a network of FTP software and archived data which was put together by students at Munich University of Technology and Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich even before HTML and HTTP existed. The original aim was to create a single, huge archive by linking up archives run by the different research groups (hence its name LEO – \"Link Everything Online\". The archive was sorted thematically and the different sections organised and kept up to date by archivists.\n\nWhen the World Wide Web came into common use, HTTP access to the archive was at first added as an alternative to FTP. Students developed various services in their free time, in particular the dictionaries. Some services have been dropped in the course of the spin out.\n\nThe name of the site is actually a backronym from the name Leo: the Bavarian coat of arms features a lion. Originally, the service was named ISAR (a backronym for Isar river, on the banks of which Munich is situated; here, ISAR stood for \"Informations Systeme und Archiv München\", but it had to be renamed as there was another firm of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "7728377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728377", "title": "List of Christian mystics", "text": "List of Christian mystics\n\nChristian mysticism refers to the development of mystical practices and theory within Christianity. It has often been connected to mystical theology, especially in the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Christianity (both the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox traditions).\n\nThe attributes and means by which Christian mysticism is studied and practiced are varied. They range from ecstatic visions of the soul's mystical union with God to simple prayerful contemplation of Holy Scripture (i.e., Lectio Divina).\n\nThe experiences of mystics are often framed within theological approaches to God, such as Quietism, Pietism, etc.; therefore, in order to aid in the understanding of Christian mysticism, this list includes some philosophers, theologians, anonymous theological books, religious groups and movements whose ideas and practices have had an influence on Christian mystics and the Christian mystical experience.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53963680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53963680", "title": "Loomis v. Wisconsin", "text": "Loomis v. Wisconsin\n\nLoomis v. Wisconsin was a petition to the United States Supreme Court to overturn the previous Wisconsin Supreme Court ruling in \"State v. Loomis\". The case challenged the State of Wisconsin's use of proprietary, closed-source risk assessment software in the sentencing of Eric Loomis to six years in prison. The case alleged that using such software in sentencing violates the defendant's right to due process because it prevents the defendant from challenging the scientific validity and accuracy of such test. The case also alleged that the system in question (\"Correctional Offender Management Profiling for Alternative Sanctions\" or COMPAS) violates due process rights by taking gender and race into account. Hearing this case would have given the court \"the opportunity to rule on whether it violates due process to sentence someone based on a risk-assessment instrument whose workings are protected as a trade secret.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court denied the writ of certiorari, thus declining to hear the case, on June 26, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1271730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271730", "title": "Matrix of domination", "text": "Matrix of domination\n\nThe matrix of domination or matrix of oppression is a sociological paradigm that explains issues of oppression that deal with race, class, and gender, which, though recognized as different social classifications, are all interconnected. Other forms of classification, such as sexual orientation, religion, or age, apply to this theory as well. Patricia Hill Collins is credited with introducing the theory in her work entitled \"Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment\". \nAs the term implies, there are many different ways one might experience domination, facing many different challenges in which one obstacle, such as race, may overlap with other sociological features. Characteristics such as race, age, and sex, may affect an individual in extremely different ways, in such simple cases as varying geography, socioeconomic status, or simply throughout time. Other scholars such as Kimberle Crenshaw's \"Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence against Women of Color\" are credited with expanding Collins' work. The matrix of domination is a way for people to acknowledge their privileges in society. How one is able to interact, what social groups on is in, and the networks one establishes is all based on different interconnected classifications.\n\nThough Collins' main focus of the theory of the matrix of domination was applied to African-American women, there are many other examples that can be used to illustrate the theory. Other examples include Log Cabin Republicans, female criminality, and African-American Muslim Women. One of the key concepts of the matrix of domination is that the different categories, like race and gender, are separate groups, rather than a combination. This is a problem that can be seen in the law as well when it comes to discrimination because the courts fail to view discrimination as an overarching umbrella of intersectionality.\n\nA way in which the Matrix of Domination works with regards to privilege can be if two people all have the same classification, except one person has an education and one does not have as high of an education. Their gender, race, sexuality, educational attainment all intersect to identify who they are. However, compared to other people one classification can point out privilege and, in turn, open more opportunities for one individual over the other.\n\nOne of the main aspects of the matrix of domination is the fact that one may be privileged in one area, yet they can be oppressed in a different aspect of their identity. Some people believe that racial discrimination is on its way to being eradicated from the United States when they look as people like Colin Powell, a very successful, African-American, middle-aged man. Although Powell obtains the characteristics of a person that may not face oppression (upper-class, middle-aged, male), he is still discriminated against because of his race. This shows one of the key components of the matrix of domination; the idea that one cannot look at the individual facets of someone's identity, but rather that they are all interconnected.\n\nIn Collins’ \"Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness, and the Politics of Empowerment\", she first describes the concept of matrix thinking within the context of how black women in America encounter institutional discrimination based upon their race and gender. A prominent example of this in the 1990s was racial segregation, especially as it related to housing, education, and employment. At the time, there was very little encouraged interaction between whites and blacks in these common sectors of society. Collins argues that this demonstrates how being black and female in America continues to perpetuate certain common experiences for African-American women. As such, African-American women live in a different world than those who are not black and female. Collins notes how this shared social struggle can actually result in the formation of a group-based collective effort, citing how the high concentration of African-American women in the domestic labor sector in combination with racial segregation in housing and schooling contributed directly to the organization of the black feminist movement. The collective wisdom shared by black women that held these specific experiences constituted a distinct viewpoint for African-American women concerning correlations between their race and gender and the resulting economic consequences.\n\nMoolman points out the main issue concerning matrix thinking is how one accounts for the power dynamics between varying identifying categories that are ingrained in both oppression and domination instead of the traditional approach, reducing experiences to a single identity. For instance, black women’s experiences with society are used to illustrate how even though white scholars have attempted to use intersectionality in their research, they may still be inclined to default towards single-identity thinking that often fails to address all aspects of black women’s experiences, thus ignoring the organization the matrix objectively offers.\n\nThe matrix of domination in the colonial era and white society has also been carefully examined. The societal hierarchy determined by race and implemented under apartheid locates different racial populations in regards to their privilege, with African Americans usually at the bottom of the ladder. Dhamoon argues that on a global scale, the spot occupied by African Americans in such context is interchangeable with indigenous populations, as marginalized peoples are systematically working both within and across a matrix of interrelated axes of “penalty and privilege”. The interconnectivity of different identities in regards to power in racial structures in post-colonial era societies help illustrate what changes make a difference. The framework setup of the matrix of domination connects its origin theory and thought to existing struggles in the political and social spheres of society. A closer look at both specific and broader aspects of matrix thought will shed more light on the inner-workings and mechanisms that determine how different relationship dynamics influence matrix categorizations.\n\nMay cites that an important implication that matrix thinking inspires is that it directly goes against what is often described as the socially inclusive ‘add and stir’ approach. This is often used when describing the addition of one or more identity group to existing epistemological approaches, political strategies or research methodologies. This accounts for the proper weighing of power dynamics and their impact on different groups of people. Intersectionality centers power in a multi-pronged way as shifting across different sites and scales at the same time. Therefore, it is not neutral but evolved out of histories of struggle that pursue multidimensional forms of justice.\n\nKimberlé Crenshaw, the founder of the term intersectionality, brought national and scholarly credential to the term through the paper \"Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist Critique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Antiracist Politics\" in The University of Chicago Legal Forum. In the paper, she uses intersectionality to reveal how feminist movements and antiracist movements exclude and women of color. Focusing on the experiences of Black women, she dissects several court cases, influential pieces of literature, personal experiences, and doctrinal manifestations as evidence for the way Black women are oppressed through many different experiences, systems and groups.\n\nThough the specifics differ, the basic argument is the same: Black women are oppressed in a multitude of situations because people are unable to see how their identities intersect and influence each other. Feminism has been crafted for white middle class women, only considering problems that affect this group of people. Unfortunately, this only captures a small facet of the oppression women face. By catering to the most privileged women and addressing only the problems they face, feminism alienates women of color and lower class women by refusing to accept the way other forms of oppression feed into the sexism they face. Not only does feminism completely disregard the experiences of women of color, it also solidifies the connection between womanhood and whiteness when feminists speak for “all women”. (Crenshaw:154) Oppression cannot be detangled or separated easily in the same way identities cannot be separated easily. It is impossible to address the problem of sexism without addressing racism, as many women experience both racism and sexism. This theory can also be applied to the antiracist movement, which rarely addresses the problem of sexism, even though it is thoroughly intertwined with the problem of racism. Feminism remains white, and antiracism remains male. In essence, any theory that tries to measure the extent and manner of oppression Black women face will be wholly incorrect without using intersectionality.\n\nPatricia Hill Collins wrote a book entitled \"Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness and the Politics of Empowerment\", which articulated \"Black Feminist Thought\" in relation to intersectionality with a focus on the plight of Black women in face of the world, the white feminist movement, and the male antiracism movement. Collins references Crenshaw's concept of intersectionality and relates it to the matrix of domination, \"The term matrix of domination describes this overall social organization within which intersecting oppressions originate, develop, and are contained.\".\n\nBoth intersectionality and the matrix of domination help sociologists understand power relationships and systems of oppression in society. The matrix of domination looks at the overall organization of power in society while intersectionality is used to understand a specific social location of an identity using mutually constructing features of oppression.\n\nThe concept of intersectionality today is used to move away from one dimensional thinking in the matrix of domination approach by allowing for different power dynamics of different identity categories at the same time. Researchers in public health are using Intersectionality-Based Policy Analysis (IBPA) Framework to show how social categories intersect to identify health disparities that evolve from factors beyond an individual’s personal health. Ferlatte applied an IBPA framework and used structural interviews to identify barriers to the allocation of HIV prevention funding for gay men. He highlighted policy more likely to cause harm than reduce the epidemic stemming from policy makers missing the ‘intersections of oppression, sex panic, and medicalization’.\n\nIntersectionality can also be used to correct for the over-attribution of traits to groups and be used to emphasize unique experiences within a group. As a result, the field of social work is introducing intersectional approaches in their research and client interactions. At the University of Arkansas, the curriculum for a Master of Social Work (MSW) is being amended to include the Multi-Systems Life Course (MSLC) approach. Christy and Valandra apply an MSLC approach to intimate partner violence and economic abuse against poor women of color to explain that symbols of safety (such as police) in one population can be symbols of oppression in another. By teaching this approach to future social workers, the default recommendation for these women to file a police report is amended and an intervention rooted in the individual case can emerge.\n\nMany approaches have been used that consider the concepts of identity, societal structures, and representation to be mutually exclusive, but the introduction of Patricia Hill Collins’ matrix of domination addresses the interlocking patterns of privilege and marginalization along the lines of race, class, gender, and class inside social institutions as well as at the community level. With this work has come greater recognition of the various effects that each identity holds in different societal contexts, in both the micro- and macro-level structures within the systems of oppression that exist.\n\nIn April Bernard's article, “The Intersectional Alternative: Explaining Female Criminality”, Bernard applies Patricia Hill Collins’ work to the study of feminist criminology, as a means of explaining the cumulative effects of identity in a system of oppression on women’s decisions to commit a crime. Bernard employs an intersectional approach to dissect the complexities that act as determinant factors in a woman’s decision to partake in criminal activities, and more specifically, the limiting pressures of a patriarchal society. In particular, this article is framed in response to Robert Merton’s claims about deviance as a response to a lack of adequate resources to achieve cultural goals, as Bernard employs an intersectional paradigm model that explores female criminality as an expression of constraint and circumscription, rather than a “strained reality”. With this alternative framework, Bernard suggests that societal goals are not unanimous, and are instead shaped by individuals’ experiences in economic, political, and social spaces; for marginalized women, access to the means through which they build success are impacted by micro- and macro-level norms and histories that have created indicators of class (e.g. racial, economic, political, sexual) and subjugated them to limited networks. Thus, identity makes women with marginalized identities more vulnerable in the legal system, subjugates to oppressive states within multiple institutions, and creating a need for policies that move toward creating an equitable reality for them.\n\nIn the United States, especially, the matrix of domination has implications within the welfare state. Several sociological studies on the welfare state take note of state-market relations while ignoring the salient roles held by other identities such as gender, race, class, language, and age, among others. Due to the nature of the welfare state, there has not been much regard for exploring the existence of multiple axes of oppression which has led to lineation of categories of race, class, and gender. In “\"Politics, Gender, and Concepts\"”, Gary Goertz and Amy Mazur assert that literature about the welfare state should focus on the relationship between social positions and social policies, as well as provide a framework for investigations into the causal effects of class, gender, and race. As such, using the idea of a matrix of domination in these kinds of studies provides a basis for empirical research on the relationship between social positions and policies, and also, for a comparison between the outcomes of social policies on marginalized and privileged women.\n\nThe benefits that upper-class citizens receive from their employer are far different from that of working-class employees. This is due to the upper class taking jobs that give them a higher status or position, whereas the working class take jobs with lower status such as retail and blue-collar jobs. The most obvious benefit that differs between classes is the amount of money made. Upper-class workers receive significantly more pay than the working class, and while the upper class receive salaries, the lower class typically receive their pay based off hourly wages. Moreover, the chance of getting a raise is greater for the higher-ups. More benefits that the upper class enjoy over the working class are vacation time, flexible hours, retirement savings, and greater coverage of healthcare and insurance.\n\nWhen it comes to workplace benefits such as health insurance coverage, pensions, sick leave, and disability plans, there are gender differences in whether or not these benefits are offered. Women are less likely to be offered pensions, health coverage and disability plans. In fact, high poverty rates among elderly women have been linked to lack of pension coverage. Additionally, many female heads of household remain on welfare because they cannot find jobs with adequate health insurance coverage. When it comes to union contracts, men are also twice as likely to be covered. This gender gap in benefits coverage may be due to the fact that women tend to have higher medical expenditures than males of the same age. As a result, some of the observed gap in wages between males and females in the United States could be the result of employers compensating for the higher cost of employer-sponsored health insurance. This further perpetuates gender discrimination because it means that firms who offer ESI (Employer Sponsored Insurance) will prefer to hire males. Another effect of women generally having greater healthcare expenses than men is that they are likely to place a higher value on insurance and be more inclined to pass up jobs for insurance-related reasons. This lowers the probability of obtaining jobs that pay higher wages directly and decrease a woman's bargaining power with her current employer. Indeed, health insurance has a larger (negative) effect on the job mobility of women, which they attribute to women's elevated healthcare expenses.\n\nIn the United States there is an unequal distribution of income between social classes for multiple reasons. Level of education has a great influence on average salaries. The higher the socioeconomic status (SES) of an individual the more likely they are to graduate from high school and potentially obtain a college degree, which in return increases their chances of a larger salary. The average salary of an individual with a high school diploma is about $35,000, but increases to about $60,000 by obtaining a bachelor's degree after. The gap in salary increases with each additional level of education received. Those in the lower class face more obstacles and have less opportunities to pursue additional education due to their lack of resources. The wage gap is even larger for individuals affected by poverty and racial barriers. Whites have a median income of about $71,000 while blacks have a median income of about $43,000. Statistics show that blacks make up 16% of public high school graduates, 14% of those enrolling in college, and only 9% of those receiving a bachelor's degree. At the same time, whites make up 59%, 58%, and 69%, respectively. That is a 61% difference between blacks not obtaining a bachelor's degree and whites graduating with one. Individuals in poverty already face a disadvantage in obtaining the same level of income as their upper class coworkers, but when also affected by racial barriers the chances of reaching the same income are even fewer.\n\nThere is definitely intersectionality and inequality with women and men when it comes to wage gaps. Careers that pay well are often male dominated, and do not tolerate women and their personal needs. There has been a stable “pay gap” between men and women which has remained between 10-20% difference in their average earnings. (Women, careers and work life preferences). When discussing wage gaps between genders, scientists takes into account two questions, the first being “is there differential access jobs on the basis of gender?” and the second being, “ is women’s work perceived to have less value than comparable work done by men?”. When women begin to increase their numbers in certain job positions the status or value of the job decreases. Conceptualizing intersectionality through class, gender and race then identifying the barriers that create inequality in Work organizations is found in the idea of “inequality regimes”. Workplaces are prominent locations to analyze the continuous efforts of inequalities because many societal inequality issues stem in such areas. In the works of Inequality Regimes: Gender, Class, and Race in Organizations, inequality in gender, race, class are examined through intersectionality in organizations. Joane Acker discussed Inequality Regimes: Gender, Class, and Race in Organizations in Sociologists for Women in Society Feminists Lecture through studies conducted using Swedish Bank. Studies have shown in the 1980s depict that wage gaps were increasing between genders. Men were being rewarded the higher paying positions such as local managers, and believed fair wages for men should be higher than fair wages for women.\n\nSocial class plays a large role on people’s everyday life, yet their representation is not always fair. In television and popular culture, those who fall into the lower class are often portrayed differently based on if they are a woman or a man. If they are a woman, they often are portrayed as being more intelligent and responsible than their husbands, almost acting as their mothers. The male head of the household is typically portrayed as being less intelligent, with some redeeming qualities, but typically is not respected. Together they can be shown in a light that makes them seem lazy or dishonest. The upper class however, does not face these same issues with representation in the media. The man of the household takes on stereotypical male qualities, while the woman takes on stereotypical female qualities. The children in this upper class scenario are what provides entertainment value, rather than focusing on the unintelligent and unorganized adults as in the lower class model. Overall, in the upper-class family unit, they are portrayed as organized and put together, while the lower class model are portrayed as lazy and unorganized.\n\nIn American society and many other societies around the world, being a largely represented group in a position of power means that one has succeeded in life. Whether one is a manager of a fast food restaurant or the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, authority is power and power is advantage. But just like the widespread power struggle, there is a widespread equality struggle. One of the largest workplace and societal inequalities is the inequality between genders. A prime example of this is the wage gap. Women in 2016 earned, on average, 82 cents to a man’s dollar. This unequal pay is part of the reason that many women are the ones to leave the workforce when it is determined that a stay-at-home parent is required; if women are contributing less to the household income, it will make less of an impact if they quit their jobs. Women are also not granted the same opportunities for employment as men. A clear example is the U.S. military. Women were banned from all combat roles until recently. In 2011, only 14 percent of the armed forces were female, and only 14 percent of officers were female. Another example is the U.S. congress. In 2015, 80 percent of the Senate was male, and only 20 was female. This numbers were similar for the House, at 80.6 percent male and 19.4 percent female. The gender composition of the military and the government, along with the wage gap, shines a lights on the gender inequality experienced right here at home, but this inequality is more greatly felt abroad. Some countries place strict limitations on women, not allowing them to vote or work or even drive a car. While the U.S. is seen as a country of dreams and opportunity, is far easier to see this when compared to an even more unequal country. The United States has been trending toward gender equality in recent years, but it has a while to go.\n\nAn article found in the November 1998 issue of \"Social Problems\" details the conflict involving racial domination by identifying the complexity African-Americans face. In many cases, sociologists and laypersons alike are often limited in their approach to the problem. Michelle Byng, in \"Mediating Discrimination: Oppression among African-American Muslim Women\"—the 1998 article—brings to focus new approaches to understanding discrimination, but also, she writes to illustrate the many overlooked opportunities in which the discriminated are able to empower themselves in certain situations.\n\nThere are countless numbers of court cases that examine intersectionality within the workforce that did not allow individuals to have equal opportunities because of their race, gender, and social class.\n\nThe case, DeGraffenreid vs. General Motors, provides an example when the law does an injustice to those that face discrimination. Five black female production workers were laid off, and took it to court claiming that the company was violating Title VII because, \"it perpetrated past discriminatory practices of not hiring Black females.\" The court looked at each of the categories, race and gender, separately therefore they missed the discrimination of a person being both African-American and female. \"It was argued, black women can expect little protection as long as approaches, such as that in DeGraffenreid, which completely obscure problems of intersectionality prevail.”\n\nAnother case, Maivan Lam v. University of Hawai'i, where intersectionality was the core reason behind the problem that emerged. Maivan Lam was not offered a job twice when she applied to be the Director of the Law School's Pacific Asian Legal Studies Program. Two times, the university was looking for a director and when the final offer came around, and she was the best candidate available, the university simply cancelled their search. In the first search, Professor Lam made it to the final round, but was not offered the job before the whole search was simply shut down. The second time, the position was offered to another candidate and the other candidate refused to accept, the search was simply cancelled without it being offered to Professor Lam. When Lam brought this situation up to the Dean, he suggested reopening the search so that male candidates who had not applied on time could submit their applications. It is stated, \"Early in the 1989-90 academic year, the new appointments committee reviewed applications for a commercial law position. At one meeting, a male committee member stated that the Law School should not have two women teaching commercial law. This comment was reported to the Dean, who said that he recognized that the professor had difficulty dealing with women but took no action to remove him from the committee or otherwise to remedy the problem.\". There was clear intersectionality as Professor Lam was not only arguing regards to race but also how her gender affected her position.\n\nIn the case, Jefferies v. Harris County Community Action Association, April 21, 1980, Dafro M. Jefferies claimed that her former employer failed to promote her to a higher position because of her race and sex. In 1967 she was employed by Harris County Community Action Association as a Secretary to the Director of Programs. She was later promoted to Personal Interviewer in 1970. Everything seemed to be moving in a positive direction for her. However, between 1971 and April 1974, Jefferies applied for promotions in various positions and departments without any luck. She realized that her employer was discriminating against her when two Field Representative positions opened. Jefferies immediately applied. However, the positions were already staffed by a white female and black male the same day that she was told about the vacant position. The company had purposefully told her about the open positions knowing that they were already filled by other staff members. After several complaints to the company, on April 23, 1974 Jefferies was placed on probation. In June 1974, she was terminated from the job because she had called the company out for discriminating against her because of her race and sex. There was clear evidence of intersectionality in this case; Jefferies was not promoted to a higher position because she was both black and a female.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18968719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18968719", "title": "Measuring programming language popularity", "text": "Measuring programming language popularity\n\nIt is difficult to determine which programming languages are \"most widely used\" because what usage means varies by context. One language may occupy the greater number of programmer hours, a different one have more lines of code, a third may utilize the most CPU time, and so on. Some languages are very popular for particular kinds of applications. For example, COBOL is still strong in the corporate data center, often on large mainframes; Fortran in computational science and engineering; C in embedded applications and operating systems; and other languages are regularly used to write many different kinds of applications.\n\nVarious methods of measuring language popularity, each subject to a different bias over what is measured, have been proposed:\n\nSeveral indices have been published:\n"}
{"id": "37360884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37360884", "title": "Microsoft Corp. v. Shah", "text": "Microsoft Corp. v. Shah\n\nMicrosoft Corp. v. Shah was an \nAnticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (ACPA) case heard before the \nUnited States District Court for the Western District of Washington. Microsoft sued the defendants, Amish Shah and others, for, among other charges, \"contributory cybersquatting\" for encouraging others, through videos and software, to infringe on Microsoft's trademarks. The case was settled out of court in July 2011 after judge Ricardo S. Martinez denied Shah's motion for dismissal. Legal observers suggested that, if upheld, the case would prove notable for the court's expansion\nof the ACPA liability to include contributory cybersquatting.\n\nAmish Shah, with help from the other defendants, registered domain names containing Microsoft trademarks, and induced others to register similar domains. Some of these domains used possible misspellings of trademarked Microsoft names. Consumers seeking Microsoft products could mistakenly end up at the defendants' website and be tricked into downloading the defendants' products. In addition to cybersquatting, the defendants also produced instructions (including a video) on how to use Microsoft's marks in a misleading manner to maximize traffic to the website. Shah also offered a software system that enabled buyers to easily create websites incorporating Microsoft's marks.\n\nOn the basis of the latter, Microsoft made claims for \"contributory cybersquatting\" and contributory trademark dilution, in addition to cybersquatting, trademark dilution, and trademark infringement. Defendants moved to dismiss the claims for contributory cybersquatting and contributory dilution, arguing that such causes of action are not recognized under law. The ACPA created liability only for registering, trafficking, or using a domain name that is identical or confusingly similar to a protected mark. Additionally, the ACPA required proof that the defendant acted with \"bad faith with intent to profit from the mark.\"\n\nJudge Ricardo Martinez decided against dismissal on January 12, 2011, affirming that Microsoft had a possible case against Shah. The court first noted that while contributory trademark infringement is well established, the ACPA, unlike trademark law, required a showing of \"bad faith intent.\" Previous courts, notably in \"Ford Motor Co. v. Greatdomains.com\", reasoned that a higher standard was required for claims of contributory cybersquatting.\n\nThe court noted that the decision of the Ford court indicated that the court had recognized a cause of action under contributory cybersquatting, but found in favor of GreatDomains.com since Ford failed to show the requisite bad faith by GreatDomains.com. The Judge noted that in this particular case, the facts clearly demonstrated bad faith with an intent to profit, and as such denied the defendants' motion to dismiss. While the ACPA does not explicitly address causes of action under contributory liability, the court noted that action under the ACPA is a tort-like cause of action, and traditional principles of tort law impose liability on those who assist or contribute in the infringement.\n\nThe court's decision notably expanded liability under the ACPA to include contributory damages, basing its decision on traditional principles of liability of tort law. Several scholars noted that the court's decision provides a precedent for expanding ACPA liability, beyond actions explicitly prohibited by the text of the law. This was particularly notable since Microsoft did not have to prove that the defendant actually sold any domain names to third parties or helped third parties acquire domain names.\n\nAn attempt was made in 2009 to sue GoDaddy, a domain registrar, under a different charge of \"contributory cybersquatting\". In this case, the Northern District Court of California ruled in favor of GoDaddy in January 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "47131615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47131615", "title": "Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History", "text": "Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History\n\nThe Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History, part of the Nova Scotia Museum, is located in downtown Halifax, Nova Scotia. The museum includes collections and exhibits concerning the natural sciences as well as artifacts of cultural significance to Nova Scotia. \n\n"}
{"id": "22620194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22620194", "title": "Richard Weiner (American author)", "text": "Richard Weiner (American author)\n\nRichard Weiner (May 10, 1927- January 29, 2014) was an American author, lecturer, lexicographer, and public relations consultant.\n\nWeiner was born in New York City on May 10, 1927. He received B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of Wisconsin. A science writer and broadcaster, he produced the first radio description of a human childbirth (distributed by Capitol Records). He was on the board of directors of the Medical Committee for Human Rights, American Academy on Physician and Patient, Medicare Rights Center, and Shake-A-Leg Miami.\n\nHis public relations firm (1968 - 1986), Richard Weiner, Inc. specialized in marketing communications, including the introduction of the Cabbage Patch Kids. Weiner has conducted over 100 workshops for the Public Relations Society of America and other groups. He taught a three-credit course in public relations at Fordham University Graduate School of Business Administration in New York, which was the nation's first such course for MBAs. Awards Weiner has received include the Gold Anvil in 1990 (highest honor to an individual from the Public Relations Society of America), the John Hill Award (NYC chapter of PRSA), and eight PRSA Silver Anvils.\n\nHis 23 books include \"The Skinny About Best Boys, Dollies, Green Rooms, Leads, and other Media Lingo\" (2006), \"Webster's New World Dictionary of Media and Communications\" (1996), \"Professional's Guide to Public Relations Services\" (1998), and \"Professional's Guide to Publicity\" (1984). His articles have appeared in \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"Writer's Digest\", \"Public Relations Tactics\", \"The Editorial Eye\", \"Public Relations Quarterly\", \"Communication World\", \"PRWeek\" and \"PR News\".\n\nWeiner lives in Miami Beach, Florida, with his wife, Florence, who also is a writer of books.\n\n"}
{"id": "405184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405184", "title": "Roddy Piper", "text": "Roddy Piper\n\nRoderick George Toombs (April 17, 1954 – July 31, 2015), better known by his ring name \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper, was a Canadian professional wrestler and actor.\n\nIn professional wrestling, Piper was best known to international audiences for his work with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) between 1984 and 2000. Although he was Canadian, because of his Scottish heritage he was billed as coming from Glasgow and was known for his signature kilt and bagpipe entrance music. He earned the nicknames \"Rowdy\" and \"Hot Rod\" by displaying his trademark \"Scottish\" rage, spontaneity, and quick wit. Described by industry veteran Ric Flair as \"the most gifted entertainer in the history of professional wrestling\", Piper is regarded by many as the greatest wrestling villain of all time.\n\nOne of pro wrestling's most recognizable stars, Piper headlined numerous pay-per-view cards, including the WWF and WCW's respective premier annual events, WrestleMania and Starrcade. He accumulated 34 championships, and hosted the popular WWF/E interview segment \"Piper's Pit\", which facilitated numerous feuds. Piper's biggest rival was Hulk Hogan: their mid-1980s feud – also involving \"Captain\" Lou Albano and singer Cyndi Lauper – is considered the beginning of \"Rock 'n' Wrestling\". Piper was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\nOutside of wrestling, Piper acted in dozens of films and TV shows, including the lead role of John Nada in the 1988 cult classic \"They Live\" and a recurring role as deranged professional wrestler, Da' Maniac, on the FX comedy series \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\".\n\nToombs was born in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan on April 17, 1954, and was raised in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He attended Windsor Park Collegiate. His father, Stanley Baird Toombs, was an officer with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) while they lived in The Pas, Manitoba. His mother was Eileen (\"née\" Anderson) Toombs. After being expelled from junior high for having a switchblade in school and falling out with his father, Piper left home and stayed in youth hostels. He picked up odd jobs at local gyms, running errands for several professional wrestlers. As a young man, he became proficient in playing the bagpipes, though he repeatedly stated that he was unsure exactly where he picked them up. His childhood (and lifelong) best friend was ex-NHL player and Stanley Cup winner Cam Connor.\n\nPiper was a boxer and an amateur wrestler before he started to become a professional wrestler. He won the Golden Gloves boxing championship. He was awarded a Black Belt in Judo from Gene LeBell, American Judo champion, instructor, stuntman, and professional wrestler.\n\nRoddy started wrestling under the care of promoter Al Tomko in Canada, his first match involving 'midget wrestlers' in front of a lumberjack audience in Churchill, Manitoba. He soon began earning money wrestling while still going to school. His first match in a pro and famous organization was with the legendary Larry Hennig in the American Wrestling Association. Friends of his played the bag-pipes during his entrance while he was handing out dandelions and then the ring-announcer had to announce something and all that he knew was his name was Roddy. So, after seeing the pipe band he then announced \"Ladies and Gentlemen, here comes Roddy the piper\", thus giving birth to \"Roddy Piper\" and the name stuck. From 1973 to 1975, Piper was a jobber in the American Wrestling Association (AWA), NWA Central States territory surrounding Kansas City, and in the Maritimes. He also worked in Texas for Paul Boesch's NWA Houston Wrestling promotion, and in Dallas for Fritz Von Erich's Big Time Rasslin.\n\nBy late 1975 and early 1976, Piper was a top villain for Mike and Gene LeBell's NWA Hollywood Wrestling. In 1977–78, he also started to work for Roy Shire's NWA San Francisco Wrestling in addition to remaining with the Los Angeles office, where Piper developed his Rowdy character. During this time, he made continuous insults directed at the area's Mexican community; he later promised to repent by playing the Mexican national anthem on his bagpipes only to anger the fans further by playing \"La Cucaracha\" instead, which in turn caused a riot. Piper also managed a stable of wrestlers in California.\n\nIn the Los Angeles area, Piper feuded with Chavo Guerrero Sr., and his father Gory Guerrero. Piper and Chavo Guerrero faced each other in several matches for the Jules Strongbow Memorial Scientific Trophy. Piper also defeated Chavo for the Americas Heavyweight Title. During the feud, Piper lost a hair match and had his head shaved. Piper appeared in several loser leave town matches and was forced to leave the territory. He also appeared in the territory as The Masked Canadian. In his first televised match as The Masked Canadian, Piper teamed with Chavo in a match against Black Gordman and Goliath for the Americas Tag Team Championship. Piper and Guerrero lost the match and faced each other two days later, with Piper defeating Guerrero for the Americas Heavyweight Championship. Piper wrestled as The Masked Canadian for several months until he was unmasked by Hector Guerrero.\n\nBy late 1978-early 1979, Piper left the California promotions for even more fame in Don Owen's Portlandbased Pacific Northwest territory. He teamed with Killer Tim Brooks and Rick Martel to win the NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship. Piper also won the NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship with victories over both Lord Jonathan Boyd and \"Playboy\" Buddy Rose.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Piper ventured to the Mid-Atlantic territory where he beat Jack Brisco for the Mid-Atlantic title. He also defeated Ric Flair for the US belt which turned into a feud. From 1981–82, Piper served as a commentator on Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW) and feuded with the likes of Bob Armstrong, Dick Slater, and Tommy Rich. During the summer of 1982, Piper became a fan favorite after knocking out Don Muraco and Ole Anderson to save broadcast partner Gordon Solie from Muraco, who had grown angry at Solie questioning his tactics. In \"Wrestling to Rasslin\", Gerald W. Morton and George M. O'Brien described the transformation: \"the drama finally played itself out on television when one of his [Piper's] hired assassins, Don Muraco, suddenly attacked the commentator Gordon Solie. Seeing Solie hurt, Piper unleashed his Scottish fury on Muraco. In the week that followed, like Achilles avenging Patroklas, he slaughtered villain after villain... In the arenas fans chanted his name throughout his matches.\"\n\nIn 1982, Piper was fired because of showing up late for a match. He went to Puerto Rico for a month and was booked by Jim Barnett shortly thereafter. Piper returned to the Georgia area in the summer of 1983 to aid Tommy Rich during his rivalry with Buzz Sawyer. Eventually, Piper moved back to Jim Crockett Promotions. As a fan favorite, Piper feuded with Sgt. Slaughter, Ric Flair, and Greg Valentine. Piper's feud with Valentine culminated in a dog collar match at the first Starrcade. Valentine broke Piper's left eardrum during the match with the collar's chain, causing Piper to permanently lose 50–75% percent of his hearing. This became known as \"The Year of the Ear\".\n\nBefore entering the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) full-time in 1984, Piper wrestled three matches with the WWF under Vince McMahon Sr. in 1979 at Madison Square Garden. Before one match, Freddie Blassie stuffed Piper's bagpipes with toilet paper, so they would not play in front of the Garden crowd.\n\nIn 1983, WWF owner Vince McMahon contacted Piper, who insisted on serving out his contract with Jim Crockett before starting his WWF run in 1984. Piper debuted in the WWF as a manager because of injuries he suffered during a dog-collar match at Starrcade; he managed \"Dr. D\" David Schultz and \"Mr. Wonderful\" Paul Orndorff, eventually Piper's run as a manager quietly ended and Piper started wrestling full-time. He was given his own interview segment called \"Piper's Pit\" on \"Championship Wrestling\" and \"Wrestling at the Chase\" in 1984, starting a run of the segment that ended in 1987. During one \"Piper's Pit\", Piper insulted Jimmy Snuka's Polynesian heritage and attacked Snuka by smashing him over the head with a coconut. Piper also insulted Bruno Sammartino during a \"Piper's Pit\" segment, which led to a feud that ended in a steel cage match which Piper lost.\n\nPiper's next major storyline was with Hulk Hogan and also involved pop singer Cyndi Lauper. In 1985, MTV broadcast \"The War to Settle the Score\", which featured a main-event match between Piper and Hogan, who was accompanied to the ring by Lauper, Captain Lou Albano, and Mr. T. This event set up the very first WrestleMania, which pitted Paul Orndorff and his former manager Piper against Hogan and Mr. T. Orndorff was pinned by Hogan when Piper's bodyguard \"Cowboy\" Bob Orton interfered and mistakenly struck Orndorff instead of Hogan. In \"Born to Controversy\", Piper recalled how during the match he had to keep Mr. T busy to cover Mr. T's lack of wrestling ability from being seen by the fans. From this situation, Piper and Mr. T's real-life relationship became hostile, leading to the inevitable conclusion that they be put into a feud with one another on-screen. Piper faced Mr. T in a boxing match at WrestleMania 2 in 1986, which Piper lost by disqualification after bodyslamming Mr. T.\n\nFollowing a leave of absence from the WWF, Piper returned as a face, during a TV taping of \"Championship Wrestling\" on August 23, 1986 against A.J. Petrucci. As part of the storyline, the returning Piper was distressed to find his \"Piper's Pit\" segment replaced by \"The Flower Shop\", a segment hosted by Adrian Adonis, who had also hired Piper's former bodyguard Orton. Piper spent weeks crashing Adonis' show and trading insults, leading to a \"showdown\" between the two segments that ended with Piper being assaulted and humiliated by Adonis, Orton, and Don Muraco, resulting in Piper's face turn. In response, Piper stormed the set of Adonis' show and destroyed it with a baseball bat. This led to their Hair vs. Hair match at WrestleMania III, which was billed as Piper's retirement match from wrestling before he left to become an actor full-time. Piper won the match.\n\nIn early 1987, Piper's Pit also served as the backdrop for Andre the Giant's heel turn and challenging Piper's old foe, Hulk Hogan, for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship at WrestleMania III, and Hogan ultimately accepting the challenge.\n\nIn 1989, Piper returned from a two-year hiatus. Although WrestleMania V was billed as his return, he actually made his first appearance on March 19 in Denver, CO at a house show when he hosted a live \"Piper's Pit\" and interviewed Brother Love. Two weeks later at WrestleMania V he did make his official return with another live \"Piper's Pit\", where he hosed down a smoking Morton Downey Jr. with a fire extinguisher. He made his return to the ring on May 12, substituting for Jake Roberts and pinning Ted Dibiase on a house show in Los Angeles. Piper would gain several more victories against Dibiase that month, and also against Randy Savage in June.\n\nAfter this, Piper co-hosted \"Prime Time Wrestling\" from July 17, 1989 to December 25, 1989, with Gorilla Monsoon, feuding with Bobby Heenan, \"Ravishing\" Rick Rude, and Brother Love he would return to the show in 1991 as well. Piper returned to the ring when he interfered in Rude's Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship defense against The Ultimate Warrior at SummerSlam, costing Rude the title. The feud was heavily promoted on TV and Piper would face Rude in many matches throughout the house show tours, including steel cage and lumberjack matches. The feud was so prominent that a survivor series match was built around it which saw both men captain a team and simultaneously be eliminated by countout during their brawl, though Rude's team would go onto win the match. The feud came to a head when the stipulation stated that if Piper beat Rude, Heenan would have to dress as Santa Claus for an episode of \"Prime Time\". However the feud would continue until March 1990 with Piper winning the majority of their matches throughout 89-90 including a win over Bobby Heenan. \nHe then feuded with Bad News Brown who was upset at being eliminated by Piper at the 1990 Royal Rumble. Brown would go on to mock Piper for wearing a \"skirt\". At WrestleMania VI in April 1990, Piper cut a promo towards his opponent Bad News Brown before the match with half his face and body painted black. Bad News would take this as being offensive behind the scenes. Subsequently, the match would end in a Double Count Out, with the issue between the two would never being resolved despite plans to the contrary. According to a behind the scenes interview, neither man would agree lose to each other.\nIn 1991, he supported Virgil in his feud against \"The Million Dollar Man\" (Ted DiBiase). Later in 1991 Piper was involved in a motorcycle accident, but was still present at their matches at WrestleMania VII and SummerSlam. He renewed his feud with Ric Flair and at the 1992 Royal Rumble defeated The Mountie for his first, and only, Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship. He lost it soon after to Bret Hart at WrestleMania VIII. Following his title loss to Hart, Piper disappeared from the WWF. He made his return playing the bagpipes at SummerSlam.\n\nHe reemerged once again in 1994 at WrestleMania X as guest referee for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship match between Bret Hart and Yokozuna. During the match, commentator Jerry \"The King\" Lawler remarked that he hated Piper and continued to taunt Piper on his \"King's Court\" segment on \"Monday Night Raw\", eventually culminating with Lawler bringing out a young, skinny impersonator in a Piper T-shirt and kilt and forcing him to kiss his feet. Enraged, Piper agreed to wrestle Lawler at the King of the Ring, where Piper emerged victorious. Piper wrestled as a fan favorite, and adding to the face attitude by donating part of his purse from the fight with Lawler to a children's hospital in Ontario. In spring 1994, Piper began hosting a regular weekly segment on \"All-American Wrestling\" called \"The Bottom Line\" where he commented on various happenings in the WWF, as well as on his feud with Lawler. Piper's segment aired regularly until the Summer of 1994, when Piper would disappear again.\n\nLeaving the WWF again, he briefly returned in 1995 at WrestleMania XI, once again in a referee capacity, for the submission-only match between Hart and Bob Backlund. After this match Piper became the host for the replay editions of WWF pay-per-views for a brief period of time, commenting on the matches that had just happened, before disappearing again a few months later.\n\nOn the January 29, 1996 episode of \"Monday Night RAW\", Piper returned for another regular role, as he was named as interim WWF President after Gorilla Monsoon had to take a leave of absence due to an attack by Vader. On February 24 at a house show at East Rutherford, New Jersey he made his first match appearance in almost two years. As a substitute for Razor Ramon, Piper defeated The 1-2-3 Kid after hitting him with a ring bell. He wrestled twice more against the Kid on house shows that month.\n\nAs president, one of Piper's first acts was to reinstate The Ultimate Warrior back into the WWF after a letter campaign written in by fans. Piper had become the object of affection for Goldust. Enraged, Piper claimed he would \"make a man\" out of Goldust at WrestleMania XII. The match, dubbed a \"Hollywood Backlot Brawl\", began in an alleyway behind the Arrowhead Pond, but Goldust jumped into his gold Cadillac and ran Piper over, ultimately escaping (allegedly) onto the highways of Anaheim. Piper pursued in his white Ford Bronco, the aerial footage shown was actually that of the O. J. Simpson \"low-speed\" chase from two years prior. This was made clear by Piper himself, who recalled the event on an episode of \"Pipers Pit the Podcast\". The two eventually returned to the arena, where Piper disrobed Goldust in the ring, effectively ending the confrontation. With Gorilla Monsoon back in control of the WWF by the end of the night, Piper once again left the company. His final appearance came the September 6, 1996 edition of \"Monday Night RAW\", where footage was shown of him participating with other WWF wrestlers at the CNE \"Experience\" in Toronto.\n\nPiper joined World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in the fall of 1996. He made his surprise WCW debut as a fan favorite at the Halloween Havoc pay-per-view in October to insult the nWo leader and the World Heavyweight Champion Hollywood Hogan.\nOn the November 18 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper revealed that Eric Bischoff was a member of the nWo, which ended with the nWo attacking him. on the December 9 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper told Flair that he didn't need the Four Horsemen's help in beating Hogan and he was going to do it on his own. Piper defeated Hogan with his signature sleeper hold in the non-title main event of the company's flagship pay-per-view Starrcade, which earned him a title shot against Hogan for the World Heavyweight Championship at SuperBrawl VII, where Piper was defeated. Piper then joined forces with Ric Flair and The Four Horsemen in their battle with the nWo. On the March 10, 1997 episode of Nitro, Piper and his family joined forces with The Four Horseman in their battle with the nWo. At Uncensored, Piper competed in a triangle elimination match where he captained a team of Horsemen Chris Benoit, Steve McMichael and Jeff Jarrett against the nWo and WCW's team of Lex Luger, Steiner Brothers and The Giant. His team lost the match. on the March 31 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper and Flair agreed to team up and stand side by side to fight. Piper moved on to feud with other members of nWo. At Slamboree, Piper, Flair and Kevin Greene defeated nWo members Scott Hall, Kevin Nash and Syxx in a six-man tag team match. The following month, at The Great American Bash pay-per-view, Piper and Flair unsuccessfully challenged The Outsiders for the World Tag Team Championship. on the June 23 episode of Nitro, Flair and the Four Horsemen turned on Piper and attacked him. This led to a match between Piper and Flair at Bash at the Beach, which Piper won.\n\nPiper took a hiatus from television before making his return to WCW on the September 8 episode of \"Nitro\", where he was appointed the new on-air Commissioner of WCW, which reduced his in-ring work. He briefly resumed his feud with Hulk Hogan, beating him in a steel cage match at Halloween Havoc. on the March 23, 1998 episode of Nitro, Piper and Randy Savage battled to a no contest. On the March 30 episode of Nitro, Piper defeated Hogan by disqualification. At the 1998 Spring Stampede pay-per-view, Piper teamed with The Giant in a loss to Hogan and Nash in a Baseball Bat on a Pole match. At Slamboree, Piper served as the special guest referee in a match between Randy Savage and Bret Hart, which Hart won but the following night on Nitro, Piper changed his decision and declared Savage as the winner by disqualification. At The Great American Bash, Piper and Savage lost to Hogan and Hart in a tag team match. on the September 7 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper and Diamond Dallas Page defeated Sting and Lex Luger by disqualification. Piper teamed with Diamond Dallas Page and The Warrior as Team WCW in a WarGames match at Fall Brawl for an opportunity at the WCW World Heavyweight Championship at the following month's Halloween Havoc. Page won the match for his team. on the September 14 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper confronted Bret Hart.\n\nOn the February 8, 1999 episode of \"Nitro\", Piper defeated Bret Hart to win his third United States Heavyweight Championship; the first two reigns being in JCP. Piper held the title for only two weeks as he lost the title to Scott Hall at SuperBrawl IX. In late 1999, Piper was featured on WCW television, in an angle with Vince Russo, who was now portraying himself as the \"Powers That Be\" (an unseen power that was controlling WCW). At Slamboree (1999), Piper defeated Flair by disqualification, and the following month at The Great American Bash (1999), Flair defeated Piper by disqualification for control of World Championship Wrestling. at Bash at the Beach (1999), Piper competed against Buff Bagwell in a boxing match with Mills Lane as special guest referee where he lost. At Starrcade, Piper was the special referee in the World Heavyweight Championship match featuring Goldberg and Hart. Forced by Russo, Piper called for the bell when Hart locked in the Sharpshooter on Goldberg, when it was apparent that Goldberg had not submitted. The feud between Piper and the Powers That Be ended shortly after. Piper's last appearance in WCW was at SuperBrawl 2000 in February 2000 where he was a surprise referee in the World Championship title match between Sid Vicious, Jeff Jarrett and Scott Hall. In July 2000, WCW terminated Piper's contract.\n\nBefore going to the WWE in 2003, Piper served as the commissioner of the Xcitement Wrestling Federation (XWF). On November 5, 2002 Piper's autobiography, \"In the Pit with Piper: Roddy Gets Rowdy\", was released.\n\nPiper returned to WWE on March 30, 2003, by conducting a surprise run in during the Hulk Hogan-Vince McMahon match at WrestleMania XIX in Seattle, Washington, where he attacked Hogan with a steel pipe to cement his heel status; Hogan nevertheless eventually won the match. Piper went on to align with Sean O'Haire; at Backlash in April, Rikishi hit Piper with Piper's own coconut, but this led to O'Haire defeating Rikishi.\n\nIn May, as Hulk Hogan had been banned in storyline from television by Vince McMahon, Hogan returned under a mask as Mr. America, and continued his feud with Piper, O'Haire and McMahon, who tried to reveal Mr. America's true identity. This storyline also saw Piper tear off the fake leg of one-legged wrestler Zach Gowen, who was playing a Hogan fan. At Judgment Day, Piper argued with Chris Jericho if \"Piper's Pit\" was better than Jericho's talk show \"The Highlight Reel\". Later at the event, Piper lost to Mr. America.\n\nPiper and O'Haire then moved on to challenge Tajiri and Eddie Guerrero for the WWE Tag Team Championship, but in June 2003, WWE stopped employing Piper after a controversial interview with HBO's \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\" in which Piper discussed the darker side of the wrestling industry. WWE cited that \"Piper stated that he used drugs for many years while working in professional wrestling and that he does not like the person that he becomes when he actively performs as a professional wrestler\", and dismissed Piper because of \"inability to reach agreement on a contract and to assist Piper from engaging in any self-destructive behavior\". On his 2006 DVD, Piper claimed that HBO took parts of his interviews out of context to make wrestling look bad.\n\nPiper debuted for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) promotion on December 4th, 2002, at an NWA-TNA pay-per-view and started a feud with Vince Russo, cutting a promo where he blamed Russo for the death of Owen Hart.from September to December 2003, Piper gave video-tape messages. on October 8, 2004 episode of \"Impact\", Piper crashed the Impact Zone and announced his talk segment \"In the Pit with Piper\". In November 2004 at Victory Road, he hosted \"In the Pit with Piper\" and interviewed Jimmy Snuka, who refused to accede to Piper's demands of hitting Piper with a coconut. On the December 24, 2004 episode of \"Impact\", Piper hosted another \"In The Pit with Piper\" and interviewed Hector Garza but was interrupted by Scott Hall and Kevin Nash. At Final Resolution in January 2005, Piper refereed a match between Jeff Hardy and Scott Hall, helping Hardy win.Final Resolution was Piper's final appearance for TNA.\n\nOn February 21, 2005, it was announced that Piper was to be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame. Piper held an episode of \"Piper's Pit\" at WrestleMania 21 where he interviewed Stone Cold Steve Austin. On the July 11, 2005 episode of \"Raw\", Piper received a superkick from Shawn Michaels, the guest for \"Piper's Pit\". In October and November 2005, Piper feuded with Cowboy Bob Orton and Randy Orton, after they attacked him during a session of \"Piper's Pit\" with Mick Foley. While Piper defeated both Ortons in a handicap match and submitted Bob in a six-man tag match, the feud ended with Randy interfering in a singles match between Piper and Bob, disqualifying Bob, but beating down Piper.\n\nOn the June 2 episode of Smackdown, Piper held an episode of \"Piper's Pit\" with The Great Khali who attacked Piper.\nPiper returned to \"Raw\" on September 11, 2006 for a six-man tag team match win with The Highlanders against the Spirit Squad. He also appeared on the \"Raw Family Reunion\", along with Money Inc. and Arn Anderson to accompany Ric Flair ringside for a match against Mitch of the Spirit Squad. On November 5, Piper would gain what would be his final championship in WWE, winning the World Tag Team Championship with Flair from The Spirit Squad at Cyber Sunday.on the November 6 episode of \"Raw\", Piper and Flair defeated Edge and Orton to retain the titles in a no disqualification match with help from DX. On the November 13, 2006 episode of \"Raw\", Piper and Flair lost the title to Rated-RKO.\n\nIn 2007, Piper appeared in February to announce Dusty Rhodes for the WWE Hall of Fame, and also in June for \"Vince McMahon Appreciation Night\". In 2008, Piper made a surprise appearance in the Royal Rumble match by attacking Jimmy Snuka, but was eliminated by Kane. Piper then had a series of confrontations with Santino Marella in 2008, including on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\".At Cyber Sunday (2008), Piper was one of three legends to chose to be Santino Marella Opponent for the Intercontinental Championship with The Honky Tonk Man being picked the match ended by disqualification and after the match Piper and Goldust made their way down to the ring confronting and attacking Marella. \n\nOn the February 16, 2009 episode of \"Raw\", after Chris Jericho insulted WWE legends, Piper interrupted him and was attacked by Jericho for it. The feud culminated in Jericho defeating Piper, Jimmy Snuka and Ricky Steamboat at WrestleMania XXV in a handicap match. Piper later guest hosted \"Raw\" on November 16, 2009 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Piper challenged Vince McMahon to a street fight later in the evening, but Randy Orton came out to fight in McMahon's place. Kofi Kingston came out to stop Randy's assault on Piper.\n\nHe inducted Wendy Richter into the 2010 WWE Hall of Fame on March 27, 2010. He also appeared the next night on \"Raw\" as one of the Legend Lumberjacks in a match that involved Christian and Ted DiBiase. Two months later, Piper hired DiBiase to capture guest host Quinton Jackson so he could \"gain revenge on BA\", but was unsuccessful.\n\nAt WrestleMania XXVII, Piper made a cameo by hitting Zack Ryder with a coconut. On the June 13, 2011 episode of \"Raw\", The Miz and later Alex Riley were guests on \"Piper's Pit\"; this led to Piper defeating Miz in a match (to win $5000) because of help from Riley, the guest referee; this was Piper's last documented WWE match. John Cena was a guest for \"Piper's Pit\" on the November 28, 2011 episode of \"Raw\".\n\nOn the April 10, 2012 episode of \"SmackDown\", Daniel Bryan and AJ Lee were guest of \"Piper's Pit\". On the June 18 episode of \"Raw\", Piper reunited with Cyndi Lauper. At \"Raw 1000\", Piper and various other veterans helped Lita defeat Heath Slater. On the August 13, 2012 episode of \"Raw\", Chris Jericho was the guest for \"Piper's Pit\", but Dolph Ziggler and the Miz interrupted.\n\nOn the January 6, 2014 episode of \"Raw\", The Shield were guests for \"Piper's Pit\". On the March 31, 2014 episode of \"Raw\", Piper hosted \"Piper's Pit\" with superstars who would compete in the André the Giant 31-man memorial battle royal, which ended in a brawl with Big Show clearing the ring and Piper raising his hand. At WrestleMania XXX, the four men who wrestled in the main event of WrestleMania I—Piper, Paul Orndorff, Hulk Hogan and Mr. T—buried the hatchet in a backstage segment. On the December 22, 2014 episode of \"Raw\", Rusev and Lana were guests for the final edition of \"Piper's Pit\". At WrestleMania 31, Piper and other legends appeared in a backstage segment after Daniel Bryan won the Intercontinental Championship.\n\nIn early July 2015, Ric Flair said Piper lost his WWE Legends contract with the company because of a public feud with Steve Austin, which resulted in Piper leaving PodcastOne. Piper later apologized to Austin.\n\nIn February 2005 at WrestleReunion, Piper teamed with Jimmy Valiant and Jimmy Snuka against Colonel DeBeers, \"Cowboy\" Bob Orton, and \"Playboy\" Buddy Rose. On January 29, 2011, Piper made his debut for Pro Wrestling Guerrilla (PWG) during the WrestleReunion 5 weekend, defeating nineteen other men, last eliminating Terry Funk, to win the Legends Battle Royal.\n\nPiper's last documented match occurred on August 12, 2011, at the JCW Legends and Icons event. What was originally a match for Piper against Terry Funk was altered mid-match to a tag match between Piper and Cowboy Bob Orton against Funk and Mick Foley, which Piper's team won.\n\nIn 2012, Piper, along with Don Coss, created \"Portland Wrestling Uncut\", a revival of the original \"Portland Wrestling\", with new and old wrestlers combined. Playing prominently in the show are Piper and Coss as announcers, The Grappler (Len Denton) as a manager, guest appearances by the like of Matt Borne (among others), rewind segments that show partial matches from the original Portland Wrestling (owned by Don and Barry Owen), and Piper's son, Colt Toombs.\n\nPiper is considered one of the greatest talkers and heels in wrestling history. \"Piper's Pit\" interview segments were considered innovative, especially in an atmosphere where only the people like the world champion got to talk, and the wrestlers were the interviewees—never the interviewers. Many of the people on \"Piper's Pit\" never got to be world champion, but were main eventers. According to Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, he could just leave Piper in a room and return twenty minutes later with Piper having done a class-A promo. WWE named him the greatest villain in wrestling history.\n\nDave Meltzer of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" described Piper as \"one of the key figures in the growth of WWF. In particular, he helped power the success of the first WrestleMania: the most important show in company history\".\n\nMixed martial artist Ronda Rousey was nicknamed \"Rowdy\" by her friends, however she initially rejected using it professionally, feeling it would be disrespectful to Piper. After being introduced to him through Gene LeBell, Piper gave her his approval to use the nickname. On the day of his death, she dedicated her next day's UFC 190 title match with Bethe Correia to him. After quickly winning it, she noted him first in her post-fight interview. In 2018, when Rousey made her full-time WWE debut, she wore the jacket that Piper wore, which was given to her by his son.\n\nIn the 1980s, Piper also appeared in singer Cyndi Lauper's music video for the song \"The Goonies 'R' Good Enough\". Piper performed the song, \"For Everybody,\" on \"The Wrestling Album\" (Columbia Records, 1985), based on the Mike Angelo & the Idols song \"Fuck Everybody,\" but without any of the profanity heard in the original. He also appeared as a guest VJ on MTV in 1988. In 1992, he released a UK only single and music video for his song, \"I'm Your Man\". The single came with the B-side, \"Judy Come Back\".\n\n\"Deadline Hollywood\" wrote, \"During and after his wrestling days, Piper racked up dozens of film and TV credits, starring in numerous action B-movies and later doing voice work\". The most famous of Piper's acting exploits was in the 1988 science fiction film \"They Live\", directed by John Carpenter, which spawned the catchphrase Piper came up with—\"I have come here to chew bubble gum and kick ass. And I'm all out of bubble gum.\"—as well as the long fight scene over sunglasses against Keith David which took three weeks to rehearse. The line and the fight scene have since been parodied in \"Duke Nukem\", \"South Park\" and \"Adventure Time\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote that Piper's role in \"They Live\" made him a \"cult icon\" and \"some kind of legend\". \"Rolling Stone\" wrote that Piper \"had a memorable career as a cult actor\", citing \"They Live\" and the 1987 film \"Hell Comes to Frogtown\".\n\nPiper was a guest on a 1985 \"Saturday Night Live\" episode, tormenting hosts Hulk Hogan and Mr. T, and appeared as a special guest on \"MADtv\" along with Bret Hart. In the early 1990s, Piper made guest-star appearances on two episodes of \"The New Zorro\" on The Family Channel. In 1991, Piper and Jesse \"The Body\" Ventura starred in \"Tag Team\", a television film about two ex-professional wrestlers turned police officers. Piper appeared as a wrestler loosely based on himself in an episode called \"Crusader\" from \"Walker, Texas Ranger\". Piper also appeared in an episode of \"The Outer Limits\" series.\n\nPiper was the host of ITV's \"Celebrity Wrestling\" in the United Kingdom. Piper appeared on \"\".\n\nPiper appeared in \"It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia\", as professional wrestler named \"Da' Maniac\" during season 5 and reprised this role in season 9. Although the character was a parody of Mickey Rourke's role in \"The Wrestler\", Piper had previously endorsed \"The Wrestler\" and Rourke's performance during an appearance with Rourke on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live\". He appeared as Mr. Thurgood in the low-budget film \"The Mystical Adventures of Billy Owens\" in 2008 and its sequel \"Billy Owens and the Secret of the Runes\" in 2010. On March 14, 2010, Piper appeared in \"One Fall\", an episode in CBS's \"Cold Case\", playing a wrestler named Sweet Sil. In September 2010, Piper appeared in a FunnyorDie.com video, fighting against childhood obesity in a PSA parody. The clip included him using wrestling moves on children eating junk food and the parents who feed junk food to their kids.\n\nIn 2012, Piper appeared on a Season 4 episode of \"Celebrity Ghost Stories\", in which he conveyed a story of being visited by the ghost of Adrian Adonis. In May 2013, Piper appeared in \"Barry's Angels\"— episode 12 of the fourth season of the A&E reality show, \"Storage Wars —\"in which he appraised a set of Scottish kilts purchased by Barry Weiss. In June 2013, Piper appeared on \"Celebrity Wife Swap\", where he swapped wives with Ric Flair.\n\nPiper appeared as himself in the video game \"Saints Row IV\". He also played himself as the protagonist in the 2013 film \"Pro Wrestlers vs. Zombies\". In April 2014, Piper appeared as a regular cast member on the WWE Network original reality show \"Legends' House\". He also started a podcast; \"Piper's Pit with Roddy Piper\", in association with PodcastOne.\n\nIn 2006, Roddy Piper ventured into the realm of voice acting, providing the voice of himself in \"Metal Militia\"—an episode of Cartoon Network's animated series \"Robot Chicken\"—and the voice of The Pyro Messiah in the \"Night Traveler\" multimedia adventure series produced by Lunar Moth Entertainment. He provided the voice of Bolphunga in \"\", and the voice of Don John in the Adventure Time episode The Red Throne. He also voiced his own likeness in the 2013 video game \"Saints Row IV\".\n\nPiper is one of several real people to be immortalized with a \"G.I. Joe\" action figure of himself, as \"Rowdy\" Roddy Piper, the Iron Grenadier Trainer. The figure was released as an exclusive for the 2007 International G.I. Joe Convention from the Official G.I. Joe Collectors' Club. Piper appeared at the convention to sign autographs.\n\nPiper is playable character in 14 wrestling video games. He made his first appearance in \"\". He later appeared in \"WCW/nWo Revenge\", \"WCW/nWo Thunder\", \"Legends of Wrestling II\", \"SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain\", \"\", \"WWE Day of Reckoning\", \"WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007\", \"WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008\" and \"WWE All Stars\" as a \"legend\". He also appeared in \"WWE 2K14\" as a hidden character in the \"Superstar Head Creation\" mode. He was also in \"Saints Row 4\", as an ally for the Player. He was later included in \"WWE 2K16\" as DLC. He also appears in \"WWE 2K19\" as DLC in the game's Ric Flair-themed \"Wooooo!\" Edition. Piper also made a cameo appearance in \"Abobo's Big Adventure\".\n\nPiper and his wife Kitty Jo Dittrich had been married since 1982. They had four children.\n\nOn November 27, 2006, it was announced on WWE.com that Piper had Hodgkin's lymphoma; he finished radiation therapy on January 15, 2007. This was also confirmed on Piper's official website, where he posted messages of thanks to all his fans and stated that, had the fans not chosen him as Ric Flair's partner at Cyber Sunday, he would not have been taken to the hospital and diagnosed as having his disease in time.\n\nIn November 2008, a video spread around the internet showing Piper smoking cannabis and taking a hit from a bong in front of a crowd cheering him on, although he later acknowledged his use of medicinal marijuana \"to alleviate the symptoms associated with cancer\". This was reiterated on a blog from Jim Ross.\n\nIn his autobiography, Piper claimed to be a cousin of Bret Hart, which would make him a relative of the Hart wrestling family. This fact was once used as a trivia question on \"Raw\". Hart also revealed that Piper was the only wrestler to visit him in the hospital after his stroke. Bruce Hart has stated that they were second cousins.\n\nOn July 31, 2015, Piper died in his sleep at the age of 61 at his home in Hollywood, California. His death certificate attributes this to cardiopulmonary arrest caused by hypertension, listing a pulmonary embolism as a contributing factor; TMZ reported this as a heart attack caused by the embolism.\n\nBruce Prichard claimed on his podcast to have received a voicemail from Piper the night of his death. In the message, Piper indicated that he hadn't been feeling well and that he would be going to sleep it off.\n\nNews of his death broke minutes before the Hall of Heroes dinner to cap off the Mid-Atlantic Wrestling Legends FanFest in Charlotte, North Carolina, where about 600 current and former wrestling personalities and fans had gathered. He received a ten-bell salute after the planned salute to fellow former professional wrestler Dusty Rhodes, who had died the previous month. Another ten-bell salute was given at the beginning of the August 3, 2015 episode of \"Raw\".\n\nWWE CEO Vince McMahon said, \"Roddy Piper was one of the most entertaining, controversial and bombastic performers ever in WWE, beloved by millions of fans around the world. I extend my deepest condolences to his family.\" Film director John Carpenter said, \"Devastated to hear the news of my friend Roddy Piper's passing today. He was a great wrestler, a masterful entertainer and a good friend.\"\n\nIn an HBO \"Real Sports\" interview conducted by Piper in 2003, he had predicted that he was \"not going to make 65\" because of his poor health, and that he made his 2003 return to WWE because he could not access his pension fund until reaching the age of 65.\n\nPiper was cremated, and his ashes were scattered over his home at Gaston, Oregon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39629026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39629026", "title": "S v Nkondo", "text": "S v Nkondo\n\nIn S v Nkondo (2000), an important case in South African criminal procedure, Nkondo had appeared before a regional court and was convicted of rape and robbery. The case was then sent to the high court for sentencing where it was held that N had not been thoroughly apprised of his right to legal representation and had elected to appear in person.\n\nThe court held that when courts explain the right to legal representation to accused persons and an accused person facing a serious charge elects to remain unrepresented, the magistrate should ask the accused why he or she wanted to appear in person and if it appeared that the accused was under some or other misunderstanding that has to be put right.\n\nThe High Court set aside the convictions of robbery and rape and remitted the matter to the regional court in order that the matter could be re-tried.\n"}
{"id": "36451326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36451326", "title": "Sad Song of Yellow Skin", "text": "Sad Song of Yellow Skin\n\nSad Song of Yellow Skin is a 1970 direct cinema-style documentary film on the effects of the Vietnam War on street children in Saigon. The 58-minute documentary was written, directed and narrated by Michael Rubbo and produced by Tom Daly for the National Film Board of Canada (NFB).\n\nRubbo had originally gone to Vietnam with the stated goal of making a documentary about the work of Foster Parents Plan with Vietnamese war orphans. However, once there, and confronted with the enormity of what was taking place, he felt a film about this humanitarian operation was missing the real story. Rubbo's NFB producer, Tom Daly, supported him in his efforts to entirely rethink the film.\n\nRubbo met the children in the film through Dick Hughes, a young American who offered his apartment as a safe haven for street kids. Hughes was part of a group of American student journalists who adopted a New Journalism approach covering the war—a highly personal and involved approach that would influence Rubbo's own style in making this film. This group of young journalists included John Steinbeck IV. \nRubbo recorded his own subjective observations in a diary and developed the idea for what would be the first of his self-reflexive documentaries with the NFB. In \"Sad Song of Yellow Skin\", Rubbo often comments on his own actions within the film, expressing his doubts, fears and concerns, reminding the viewer they are watching a film and not an objective representation of reality.\n\nAwards for \"Sad Song of Yellow Skin\" included a special Canadian Film Award and the BAFTA Award for Best Documentary. It was named best film over 30 minutes at the 1971 Melbourne Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "58484374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58484374", "title": "TU 142 Aircraft Museum", "text": "TU 142 Aircraft Museum\n\nTU 142 Aircraft Museum is also called as TU-142 Aircraft Museum or Aircraft Museum is a preserved Tupolev Tu-142 located in Visakhapatnam, in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. it was established in 2017 by President of India Ram Nath Kovind.\n\nThis aircraft served 29 years with the Indian Navy and had 30,000 hours of accident-free flying by the time of its retirement on 29 march 2017 at INS Rajali Arakkonam.\n\nThe Government of Andhra Pradesh decided to preserve the aircraft in a museum. Around र 14 crores was the project development cost, which was funded by Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation.\n"}
{"id": "12009840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12009840", "title": "The Dictionary Project", "text": "The Dictionary Project\n\nThe Dictionary Project is a charitable organization based in Charleston, South Carolina, U.S.A., and was founded by Mary French in 1995 to provide personal copies of a dictionary for third grade students in the South Carolina public school system. It has grown into a national organization. To date, over 30 million dictionaries have been donated to children in the United States and internationally. It is funded through individual donations and by sponsors who implement the program in their local schools.\n\nThe purpose of The Dictionary Project is to provide dictionaries to students to keep to use as their own personal reference books. The project believes that a dictionary is an essential tool for a quality education and that a student cannot do his or her best work without one. This organization seeks to provide dictionaries to all of the children who are in school. The program is typically implemented in the third grade each year.\n\nThe idea for The Dictionary Project began in 1992 when Annie Plummer of Savannah, Georgia gave 50 dictionaries to children who attended a school close to her home. In her lifetime she raised the money to buy 17,000 dictionaries for children in Savannah, Georgia. Annie Plummer died December 23, 1999. She inspired the creation of The Dictionary Project, a nonprofit organization.\n\nThe Dictionary Project was created in 1995 as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization based in Charleston, South Carolina. Its original goal was to provide dictionaries to third graders in the public schools in the three counties surrounding Charleston, and this was accomplished in the 1995-96 school year and every year since. In 2001 the project was expanded to cover the third graders in all of South Carolina’s public schools.\n\nThe project grew tremendously after it was featured in an article on the front page of The Wall Street Journal on March 4, 2002 This coverage brought national attention to the project and its founders, Mary and Arno French. As a result, individuals and groups from across the United States became involved with The Dictionary Project and sponsored the donation of dictionaries to children in their local schools.\n\nThe project continues to expand and now includes sponsors in all fifty United States, Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, Canada, and various other countries. The program has been adopted by civic organizations and adapted to local communities through the sponsorship of Rotary Clubs, BPO Elks, Kiwanis Clubs, Granges, Pioneer Volunteer groups, Lions Clubs, the Republican Federation of Women and other service organizations, by educational groups such as PTAs, by businesses, and by individuals. Anyone can participate in this project by sponsoring a program to give dictionaries to children in their community.\n\nThe Dictionary Project and its Director Mary French have been awarded several notable honors, including:\n\n\nIn addition, sponsors who have implemented the project have been recognized:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29992738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29992738", "title": "Unbound Saga", "text": "Unbound Saga\n\nUnbound Saga is a 2.5D side-scrolling beat 'em up video game developed and published by Vogster Entertainment and also a one-shot comic book published by Dark Horse Comics. It was released July 16, 2009 for the PlayStation Portable via the PlayStation Network, and on December 1, 2010 for the Xbox 360 via Xbox Live Arcade.\n\n\"Unbound Saga\" is the story of Rick Ajax, a comic book character who is aware he is in a comic. Ajax and fellow comic character Lori Machete seek to confront the artist who created them and be freed from constantly fighting.\n\nThe game received moderate reviews from critics, with the PlayStation Portable version averaging 52.60% at GameRankings and 56/100 at Metacritic. Reviewers felt that the game's art direction was well done, with several reviewers praising the comic-esque cutscenes, as well as the voice acting. Some reviewers felt that the combat lacked polish, and that the combat and upgrade system lacked depth. Others lauded the simplicity of combat, likening it to classic beat 'em up titles.\n\n\"Unbound Saga\" is a 2.5D side-scrolling beat 'em up game. The game is played as though the character is reading a comic book. In individual comic panels the player character fights off his enemies using a combination of three attacks, which can be chained together in combos. When a character is defeated the hand of The Maker appears and draws additional enemies. In order to complete a panel, the player must defeat all the enemies The Maker draws. As a panel is completed, the character jumps to the next one, similar to \"Comix Zone\". The environment locales vary and include areas such as sewers, city slums, jungles and tundra.\n\nEach of the game's two playable characters has a unique animation set and fighting style. Rick uses a fighting style similar to wrestling and can also pick up and throw enemies. Lori's moveset is more reminiscent of kung fu, and she has the ability to use smoke pellets to sneak up on enemies. Characters moves and abilities can be upgraded to earn and upgrade more powerful attacks. Two players can team up to complete the game on the Xbox 360, each taking a respective character. Objects can also be picked up and thrown. These objects decay into smaller objects after each use.\n\nThe game follows Rick Ajax, a bartending comic book character aware of the fact that he is in a comic. He knows of his creator, whom he refers to as The Maker. A second character, Lori Machete, is also available for play. Together they journey through the fictional city of Toxopolis to confront The Maker.\n\n\"Unbound Saga\" was first announced by Vogster Entertainment for the PlayStation Portable at New York Comic Con 2009. It was released July 16, 2009. On April 23, 2010, Vogster announced that the game was being ported to the Xbox 360. The port was announced to have cooperative gameplay, a feature absent from the PSP version. It was subsequently released on Xbox Live Arcade on December 1, 2010. In an interview with Mike Kennedy from Vogster Entertainment Kennedy stated the game was influenced by \"Final Fight\" and \"Streets of Rage\".\n\nThe art for the in-game cutscenes was done by Cliff Richards. A one-shot comic book was also created and published by Dark Horse Comics in conjunction with the game. Richards also created all of the art for the comic book. Mike Kennedy stated in an interview at St. Louis Comic-Con 2009 that the game and the comic had always been developed as one, rather than one being an adaptation of the other. The comic was launched on July 1, 2009. Limited edition figurines were also created to promote the game and comic book launch.\n\n\"Unbound Saga\" received mixed reviews from critics. The game holds a score of 52.60% for the PSP at GameRankings and 56/100 for the PSP at Metacritic. GameRankings and Metacritic report similar numbers for the Xbox 360 version of the game, with aggregate scores of 55.86% and 52/100, respectively. Scores across both versions of the game ranged from a 30% approval rating from Kristan Reed of Eurogamer to a 75% approval rating from Jim Sterling and Nick Chester of Destructoid. The Xbox 360 version moved over 3,900 units during the month of its release. It moved approximately 28,000 units as of the end of 2011.\n\nReviewers had mixed views on \"Unbound Saga\"s gameplay. The reviewer from Spazio Games, an Italian gaming site, compared the game to \"Double Dragon\" and \"Final Fight\". The reviewer felt that the game felt rushed, and this affected gameplay. Carolyn Petit of GameSpot was more critical of the game, calling it \"dull\" and \"mindless. IGN's Greg Miller noted the inclusion of combos and upgradeable character statistics, but felt that they \"never really amplify the fun in alternating between punch and kick.\" Destructoid's Jim Sterling noted \"While there are more complex combos to unlock during the course of the game, the meat and potatoes of \"Unbound Saga\" is the endless hammering buttons to punch, kick and throw enemies around each level.\" Co-reviewer Nick Chester called it \"classic beat-’em-up game\". Although giving the simple gameplay high marks, Chester felt that the PSP version of the game should have received cooperative play. Mike Jackson of GamesRadar appreciated the addition of cooperative gameplay on the Xbox 360 version, but wished players could join or leave on the fly.\n\nCritics were universal in praising the comic book art and voice acting present in the game's cutscenes. The reviewer from Spazio Games felt the cutscenes were well crafted and professionally done. GameSpot's Carolyn Petit stated that the \"cutscenes are the game's high point and feature gorgeous comic-book artwork\", and added \"the voice actors do a fine job\". Destructoid's Jim Sterling called the visuals \"gritty comic book feel that doesn't look obtusely cel-shaded\" and added \"the voice talent is damn good as well\". Nick Chester agreed with his co-reviewer and added \"without a doubt, the game’s animated comics-brought-to-life cut-scenes are absolutely marvelous.\" GamesRadar's Mike Jackson enjoyed the character's one-liners. He stated it was \"pretty amusing with a tinge of adult humor.\" He also felt that the plot was well written, that the characters were instantly likable, and that the game had a \"great comic book style.\" Brian Rowe of GameZone was surprisingly pleased with the game's soundtrack, and called it \"unusually cool.\" \n"}
{"id": "41307188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41307188", "title": "Women Environmental Artists Directory", "text": "Women Environmental Artists Directory\n\nThe Women Environmental Artists Directory (WEAD) focuses on promoting environmental and Social justice art. WEAD was founded in 1996 by Jo Hanson, Susan Leibovitz Steinman and Estelle Akamine. \n\nWEAD has been listed among the best projects relating to Environmental art, and has sponsored a number of exhibits about activist eco art. \n\nOne of the co-founders, Ms. Steinman, is considered a leader in the eco art field and has participated in roundtables and artists in residences programs, and is listed in the sculptor directory of the International Sculpture Center. Another co-founder, Jo Hanson, was instrumental in founding an EPA Artist in Residence Program, which was aimed at educating the public about recycling. Another of the WEAD co-founders, Estelle Akamine, was also one of the artists in residence. Ms. Akamine's work has also been featured at the Museum of Craft and Folk Art museum store and has lectured at a textile lecture series. All three co-founders were featured in a discussion about women artists of the American West whose art was about current social concerns. \n\nThe directory lists a wide variety of Woman artists, such as Marina DeBris, a trashion artist, Betty Beaumont, often called a pioneer of environmental art, and Shai Zakai.\n\nWEAD also published a magazine, which focuses on such topics as dirty water, and the legacy of atomic energy. A recent guest editor was Dr. Elizabeth Dougherty, founder of Wholly H2O, and speaker at events such as Pacific Gas and Electric Company conference on Water conservation and Toulumne County's conference on greywater. Linda Weintraub was a contributor to a recent issue of the WEAD magazine. Ms. Weintraub is the author of well known books on art and activism such as \"To Life!\" and is an eco art activist.\n"}
{"id": "43968449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43968449", "title": "Worsdale v Polglase", "text": "Worsdale v Polglase\n\nWorsdale v Polglase [1981] 1 NZLR 722 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding relief under the Contractual Remedies Act 1979 where a contract is repudiated by one of the parties.\n\nThe Worsdales entered into a contract in 1980 to purchase the Polglase's Paraparaumu home for $60,000, paying $6,000 deposit.\n\nTo finance their purchase, the Worsdales were expecting $20,000 from a business transaction, plus a further $28,000 from the sale of a property. However, 21 days before the date of settlement, both these funds had not materialized, and as a result, they advised the vendors that they had repudiated the contract.\n\nOn the following day, the vendors advised the Worsdales that they had now cancelled the contract, and on the same day, resold the property to another party for $60,000.\n\nThe Worsdales sought relief from the courts for their deposit of $6,000 that was forfeited\n\nThe court held that a deposit of 10% was customary, and refused to grant any relief here for a forfeited deposit of 10%.\n"}
{"id": "57491722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57491722", "title": "Wyatt Papworth", "text": "Wyatt Papworth\n\nWyatt Angelicus van Sandau Papworth (1822–1894) was an English architect, surveyor and antiquarian. He is best known for his editorial work on the part-published \"Dictionary of Architecture\", appearing 1853 to 1892, and the 1867 edition of Joseph Gwilt's \"Encyclopædia of Architecture\".\n\nBorn in London on 23 January 1822, he was a younger son of the architect John Buonarotti Papworth. He received professional training in his father's office, and for some years worked in the office of the commissioners of sewers for Westminster. After a short time in the office of Sir John Rennie, he became assistant surveyor, under Thomas Allason, to the Alliance Assurance Company. On Allason's death he became sole surveyor there, in 1887 retiring on a pension. Besides the ordinary duties of his office, which comprised very numerous rebuildings and restorations under his direction, he designed and erected for the company a branch office at Ipswich in Suffolk, and published notes on fire risks.\n\nPapworth was elected a fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) in 1860, and sat for many years on its council. His father being a member of the Cloth-Workers' Company, Papworth in due course became one of its liveryman of the company; and being elected to the court, he in 1879–81 served the offices of junior and senior warden, attaining the position of Master of the Company in 1889. During his year in office he represented the company at the opening of two new technical schools at Bingley and Dewsbury. He was interested in technical education, acting as a governor of the City and Guilds of London Institute, and represented his company on the governing body of Islington Polytechnic.\n\nIn 1893, on the death of James William Wild, Papworth was appointed curator of Sir John Soane's Museum in Lincoln's Inn Fields. He died at the Soane Museum on 19 August 1894, and was buried in Highgate cemetery.\nPapworth undertook antiquarian investigations on topics associated with his profession. He sought to define the periods when fir, deal, and house-painting were introduced into England, and to determine the extent of the use of chestnut-timber in old buildings. He researched the architects of medieval buildings, and, while not himself a Freemason, their connection with freemasonry. His concern was the correct attribution of the designs for the buildings erected in England during the Middle Ages.\n\nIn 1848, when Papworth and his brother John Woody Papworth had accumulated notes on the history of architecture, he issued a circular letter, suggesting a \"Society for the Promotion of Architectural Information intended for the Revival and Restoration, Investigation and Publication, of Knowledge in Architecture and the Arts connected therewith.\" The result was the formation of the Architectural Publication Society for the production of \"Detached Essays and Illustrations\", which might be subsequently incorporated in a \"Cyclopædia of Architecture.\" Papworth prepared a list of 12,127 terms or headings. In 1852 the plan of the cyclopædia was reduced to a \"Dictionary of Explanation and Reference\", which was started under the direction of a committee of leading architects. Wyatt Papworth was secretary and editor, and was assisted by his brother, John. The first part of this \"Dictionary\" was published in May 1853, and the last part in April 1892, forming eight volumes folio of text, and three volumes of illustrations, and containing 18,456 articles. The editorship and compilation of the \"Dictionary\" were entirely in Papworth's hands; nearly all the lists and references in the text and most of the biographical and topographical articles were also his. The work was printed for subscribers only, and produced at a cost of nearly £10,000.\n\nPapworth revised and edited in 1867 Joseph Gwilt's \"Encyclopædia of Architecture\", first published in 1842. Papworth's edition included new information, which was greatly increased in two further editions produced by him in 1876 and 1889.\n\nFor the Soane Museum, Papworth rewrote the \"Catalogue\", and produced a sixth edition of its \"General Description\". He supported the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" in the preparation of articles on architects, and himself contributed articles to vols. xli.–xliii.\n\nWith his brother John, Papworth published:\n\n\nThe brothers applied together in architectural competitions: for Newhaven Wharf railway station (1847), and Cambridge Guildhall (1859).\n\nAn early essay by Papworth on \"The Peculiar Characteristics of the Palladian School of Architecture\" was in 1849 awarded the silver medal of the Institute of British Architects. Among papers he contributed to the \"Transactions of the Royal Institute of British Architects\" were:\n\n\nHis collections for the \"History of the King's Artificers\", \"The Clerk of Works of the City of London\", \"The District Surveyors of London\", and other papers, were deposited in the RIBA library.\n\nPapworth married in 1873 Marian Baker (born 1838), daughter of Henry Baker and his wife Thermuthis Mayo. Their children were:\n\n\n"}
