{"id": "34014813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34014813", "title": "A Short Stay in Switzerland", "text": "A Short Stay in Switzerland\n\nA Short Stay in Switzerland is a 2009 British television film directed by Simon Curtis and written by Frank McGuinness. It stars Julie Walters, who won the International Emmy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Dr Anne Turner. It was produced by BBC.\n\nIt was also nominated for other numerous awards including the BAFTA Award for Best Single TV Drama and Best Actress.\n\nHaving recently witnessed the death of her husband from a neurological disease, Dr. Anne Turner is diagnosed with a near-identical illness and determines to end her life once her condition has reached a critical point. As her health deteriorates, Anne's son and two daughters struggle to reach a consensus over their mother's intentions and while they search for alternative options, silent recriminations and stubborn practicality threaten to tear the family apart. With her family at logger heads, Anne must also face the fury of her best friend, whose opposing views bring them into direct conflict.\n\n\nThe film was inspired by the true story of Dr. Anne Turner (25 January 1939 - 24 January 2006), who took her own life in a Zurich clinic having developed the incurable neurodegenerative disease progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Before being diagnosed with PSP, Dr. Turner had nursed her husband until he died from a similar disease, multiple system atrophy (MSA). Her brother also was victim of a progressive condition, motor neurone disease.\n"}
{"id": "10499117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10499117", "title": "Abāmūn of Tarnūt", "text": "Abāmūn of Tarnūt\n\nAbāmūn of Tarnūt is a saint and was a martyr of the fourth-century Coptic Church. He is known only from his name being mentioned in the \"Synaxarion\" of Mikhail of Atrib (c.1240). His feast day is 3 August (27 Epip).\n\nAbāmūn was from the city of Tarnut. He came to Upper Egypt, and was a witness to the persecution of Christians at that time. He presented himself to Arianus, the governor of Ansena, as a Christian. The governor tortured Abāmūn through a variety of methods, including blows, nails in the body, iron combs, and stringing him up. Thereafter, Arianus sent Abāmūn to Alexandria. There, Abāmūn's example inspired a number of other Christians to accept martyrdom.\n\nOne of the others who was inspired by Abāmūn's example was a girl named Theophila. She criticized the governor and his allies, specifically including criticism of their idolatry. For this, she was cast into the fire. The fire did not harm her, however, so she was subsequently beheaded.\n\nAbāmūn himself had his limbs cut off and was beheaded.\n\nThe church of Saint Abamūn, while bearing his name, may not necessarily be devoted to Abāmūn of Tarnūt. There was another martyr of similar description who bore the same first name, and because the church only mentions a Christian name, it cannot be sure whether the church was dedicated to Abāmūn of Tarnūt or Abāmūn of Tukh, who was also mentioned in the \"Synaxarion\" of Mikhail of Atrib. There is yet another Abamun, included in \"Les Martyrs d'Égypte\" by Hippolyte Delehaye, who seems to be this individual, as he was stated to have been martyred in Alexandria.\n\n"}
{"id": "48778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48778", "title": "Action theory (philosophy)", "text": "Action theory (philosophy)\n\nAction theory (or theory of action) is an area in philosophy concerned with theories about the processes causing willful human bodily movements of a more or less complex kind. This area of thought involves epistemology, ethics, metaphysics, jurisprudence, and philosophy of mind, and has attracted the strong interest of philosophers ever since Aristotle's \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (Third Book). With the advent of psychology and later neuroscience, many theories of action are now subject to empirical testing.\n\nPhilosophical action theory, or the philosophy of action, should not be confused with sociological theories of social action, such as the action theory established by Talcott Parsons.\n\nBasic action theory typically describes action as behavior caused by an \"agent\" in a particular \"situation\". The agent's \"desires\" and \"beliefs\" (e.g. my wanting a glass of water and believing the clear liquid in the cup in front of me is water) lead to bodily behavior (e.g. reaching over for the glass). In the simple theory (see Donald Davidson), the desire and belief jointly cause the action. Michael Bratman has raised problems for such a view and argued that we should take the concept of intention as basic and not analyzable into beliefs and desires.\n\nIn some theories a desire plus a belief about the means of satisfying that desire are always what is behind an action. Agents aim, in acting, to maximize the satisfaction of their desires. Such a theory of prospective rationality underlies much of economics and other social sciences within the more sophisticated framework of rational choice. However, many theories of action argue that rationality extends far beyond calculating the best means to achieve one's ends. For instance, a belief that I ought to do X, in some theories, can directly cause me to do X without my having to want to do X (i.e. have a desire to do X). Rationality, in such theories, also involves responding correctly to the reasons an agent perceives, not just acting on wants.\n\nWhile action theorists generally employ the language of causality in their theories of what the nature of action is, the issue of what causal determination comes to has been central to controversies about the nature of free will.\n\nConceptual discussions also revolve around a precise definition of action in philosophy. Scholars may disagree on which bodily movements fall under this category, e.g. whether thinking should be analysed as action, and how complex actions involving several steps to be taken and diverse intended consequences are to be summarised or decomposed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919674", "title": "Ark Megaforms", "text": "Ark Megaforms\n\nArk Megaforms (негуманоиды Ковчега) are a fictional alien race from the Noon Universe created by Boris and Arkady Strugatsky. Their homeworld is Ark (Ковчег), a planet officially discovered 2160 AD in the course of \"Ark Project\".\n\nArk Megaforms are mentioned only in one book - \"Space Mowgli\".\n\nNo information on the appearance of Ark Megaforms has ever been recorded, although members of ER-2 group, the humans that discovered them, recall strange 600-meter-tall structures that appeared somewhere behind the mountains every time they tried to contact the Megaforms. They looked like colossal segmented (insect-like) antennas at 100-meter amplitude. No connection between these structures and Megaforms was ever confirmed.\n\nNo exact data available. It is assumed that the intellectual abilities of Megaforms surpass those of humans: megaforms were able to directly communicate with a human (Pierre \"The Kid\" Semyonov) and adapt his body to the harsh environment of their home planet.\n\nNo data available. Apparently, the Megaforms are a so-called \"closed civilization\" which avoids contact with the entire outside world; probably that was the reason why they had completely cleared (\"sterilized\") the whole surface of the planet from all other living organisms.\n\nMegaforms directly contacted ER-2 explorer group led by Gennady Komov and demanded their immediate withdrawal from the planet Ark. No other direct contact was ever recorded. \n\nPiere Semyonov, better known under the nickname \"Little One\", was a son of Alexander Semyonov and Maria-Luisa Semyonova whose spaceship was shot down in 2147 by the Wanderers' guard satellite orbiting the Ark. It is unclear why Megaforms saved the boy. Later they used Pierre as their proxy in communication with the progressors visiting the planet.\n"}
{"id": "29873905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29873905", "title": "Aseelahella", "text": "Aseelahella\n\n\"Aseelahella\" is a genus of branching alga that falls within the coralline stem group.\n"}
{"id": "591021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591021", "title": "Computational irreducibility", "text": "Computational irreducibility\n\nComputational irreducibility is one of the main ideas proposed by Stephen Wolfram in his book \"A New Kind of Science\".\n\nWolfram terms the inability to shortcut a program (e.g., a system), or otherwise describe its behavior in a simple way, \"computational irreducibility\". The empirical fact is that the world of simple programs contains a great diversity of behavior, but, because of undecidability, it is impossible to predict what they will do before essentially running them. The idea demonstrates that there are occurrences where theory's predictions are effectively not possible. Wolfram states several phenomena are normally computationally irreducible.\n\nComputational irreducibility explains observed limitations of existing mainstream science. In cases of computational irreducibility, only observation and experiment can be used. Computational irreducibility may also provide a scientifically-based resolution for free will.\n\n\nIsraeli and Goldenfeld found that some less complex systems behaved simply and predictably (thus, they allowed approximations). However, more complex systems were still computationally irreducible and unpredictable. It is unknown what conditions would allow complex phenomena to be described simply and predictably.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "493716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493716", "title": "Cranial electrotherapy stimulation", "text": "Cranial electrotherapy stimulation\n\nCranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES) is a form of neurostimulation that delivers a small, pulsed, alternating current via electrodes on the head. CES is used with the intention of treating a variety of conditions such as anxiety, depression and insomnia. CES has been suggested as a possible treatment for headaches, fibromyalgia, smoking cessation, and opiate withdrawal, but there is little evidence of effectiveness for many of these conditions and the evidence for use in acute depression is not sufficient to justify it.\n\nA 2014 Cochrane review found insufficient evidence to determine whether or not CES with alternating current is safe and effective for treating depression.\n\nA 2018 systematic review found that evidence is insufficient that CES has clinically important effects on fibromyalgia, headache, neuromusculoskeletal pain, degenerative joint pain, depression, or insomnia; low-strength evidence suggests modest benefit in patients with anxiety and depression.\n\nElectrodes are placed on the ear lobes, maxilla-occipital junction, mastoid processes or temples.\n\nDespite the long history of CES, its underlying principles and mechanisms are still not clear.\n\nCES stimulation of 1 mA (milliampere) has shown to reach the thalamic area at a radius of 13.30 mm. CES has shown to induce changes in the electroencephalogram, increasing alpha relative power and decreasing relative power in delta and beta frequencies.\n\nCES has also shown to reach cortical and subcortical areas of the brain, in electromagnetic tomography and functional MRI studies. CES treatments have been found to induce changes in neurohormones and neurotransmitters that have been implicated in psychiatric disorders: substantial increases in beta endorphins, adrenocorticotrophic hormone, and serotonin; moderate increases in melatonin and norepinephrine, modest or unquantified increases in cholinesterase, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and dehydroepiandrosterone, and moderate reductions in cortisol.\n\nLow intensity electrical stimulation is believed to have originated in the studies of galvanic currents in humans and animals as conducted by Giovanni Aldini, Alessandro Volta and others in the 18th century. Aldini had experimented with galvanic head current as early as 1794 (upon himself) and reported the successful treatment of patients suffering from melancholia using direct low-intensity currents in 1804.\n\nCES was initially studied for insomnia and called electrosleep therapy; it is also known as cranial-electro stimulation and transcranial electrotherapy.\n\nDue to the rise of pharmaceutical treatments for depression, anxiety and insomnia, such as Prozac in the 1980s and Ambien in the 1990s, CES was not a well-known treatment for doctors and patients. During the mid-2000s, the combination of pharmaceutical brands becoming generic and Internet advertising caused CES devices to gain popularity. In 2011, the devices received media attention from the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn the United States, CES technology is classified by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a Class III medical device and must be dispensed by or on the order of a licensed healthcare practitioner, i.e., a physician, psychiatrist, nurse practitioner, psychologist, physician assistant, or occupational therapist who has an appropriate electrotherapy license, dependent upon state regulations. The United States requires a prescription for CES devices from a licensed healthcare practitioner. The FDA says that there are 11 CES devices cleared for marketing in the United States.\n\nIn June 2014, the FDA announced that it \"has determined that there is sufficient information to establish special controls, and that these special controls, together with general controls, will provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness for CES devices. In this action, FDA is withdrawing the proposed rule and proposed order to call for PMAs for CES devices. FDA plans to issue a proposed order in the future for the reclassification of the CES device into class II.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51022863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51022863", "title": "Death midwife", "text": "Death midwife\n\nA death midwife, or death doula, is a person who assists in the dying process, much like a midwife or doula does with the birthing process. It is often a community based role, aiming to help families cope with death through recognizing it as a natural and important part of life. The role can supplement and go beyond hospice. Practitioners perform a large variety of service, including but not limited to creating death plans, and providing spiritual, psychological, and social support before and just after death. Their role can also include more logistical activities, helping with services, planning funerals and memorial services, and guiding mourners in their rights and responsibilities.\n\nThe presence of the role of a modern death midwife has been evolving in recent years, including a controversy over the regulation process for the position and the use of the term \"midwife\" as opposed to doula, and bills proposed to regulate the process and provide licenses for death doulas. The terms \"End of Life Guide,\" \"Home Funeral Guide\" and \"Celebrant\" are also used. The field has also seen a significant rise in interest, especially in the organization INELDA, which trains hospitals along with individuals.\n\nWomen have long had a hand in handling the affairs of the deceased, especially in tasks in parallel with the natural burial movement. Historically, women have most often cared for the dead, doing the bulk of the preparation work for the burial. It was seen as part of the woman's role in a family to care for the deceased, just as she cared for the children and the sick. However, it was the rise of the practice of embalming and the funeral industry that pushed women out of the practice around the time of the Civil War.\n\nThis traditional role of women in burials has given rise to the modern female-led death midwife movement. Many aim to reconnect people with historical death practices of caring for their own. Death midwives promote family-led home-based care and empower families to take back the responsibility and privilege of bathing, dressing, and mourning loved ones in the privacy of their own homes. They also advise about alternatives to the industry standard of cremation or embalming, such as green or natural burial.\n\nThe rise of death midwives is a relatively new movement, with private certification programs following the legacy of pilot programs in clinical care. One of the first movements was started out of New York in 2000, a volunteer program focused on pairing so-called \"doulas\" with terminally ill people. The program was funded by the Shira Ruskay Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services and NYU Medical Center, and began pairing five volunteers with patients. The program was ultimately named \"Doula to Accompany and Comfort.\" The volunteers went through training on both clinical and spiritual aspects, including but not limited to the complexities of end of life health care, physical issues like incontinence and disorientation, and hope in the face of death.\n\nThe next major clinical implementation of the death doula methodology was at the Baylor Supportive and Palliative Care Service and Clinical Ethics Committee shortly after the establishment of the New York program. Members of this department including palliative care nurses, chaplains, and therapists worked together to create a program with in consultation with the New York program. From there, a program involving a 6-week training program was formed to work hand in hand with clinical medicine, wherein doulas are referred by nurses, social workers, and therapists, and must be specifically ordered by the doctor. After being ordered, volunteer trained doulas are matched by the hospital's revered to individual cases. While the Doula to Accompany and Comfort program provided outpatient services as well as inpatient, the Baylor program is only for inpatients.\n\nThere has been controversy over the label of \"Death Midwife.\" The College of Midwives of British Columbia has called for death midwives to stop using the label of midwife, specifically with the Canadian Integrative Network for Death Education and Alternatives (CINDEA). The basis of the case is that Louise Aerts, the executive director of the College of Midwives, claims that the term \"midwife\" is specifically reserved for the traditional sense of the word in relation to birth. The Health Professions Act protects its usage. In response, the CINDEA website has recently added the following disclaimer to their website: \"The role and practices of death midwives are frequently referred to on this website. Death midwives are not conventional midwives (who deal with birthing) or health professionals, nor are they registered with any of the Colleges of Midwives in Canada.\"\n\nThere is currently no national body that oversees certification requirements for death midwifery, and little regulation. In comparison, there are multiple regulatory bodies that ensure the education and practices of traditional midwives, such as The Nursing and Midwifery Council.\n\nHowever, there have been a few measures to regulate and license the practice of being a death midwife. In 2009, Senator Vicki Walker from Oregon introduced SB 796. The bill aims to regulate \"death care consultants,\" in other words, death midwives and related professions. After the bill passed in July, death doulas were required to be licensed by the Oregon Mortuary and Cemetery board. The test they must pass to gain a license covers Oregon and federal laws related to the care of dead bodies.\n\nThe role of a death midwife is to educate and empower families to exercise their innate right to care for their own dead. Death midwives or doulas \"provide emotional, spiritual, and physical support at an intensely personal and crucial time. They assist people in finding meaning, creating a legacy project, and planning for how the last days will unfold. Doulas also guide and support loved ones through the last days of life and ease the suffering of grief in its early stages\".\n\nDeath is a situation that no one can completely prepare for. Additionally, many people don't have much experience with people close to them dying. Because of this, when it comes to the time to deal with dying there are a lot of questions and uncertainty. Pain management is only one part of end of life care; another part, of equal or greater importance at the end of their life, is the psychological aspects,\nincluding the management of close relationships. A doula's support can relieve stress and burdensome tasks from the family in order to provide care for the dying individual but also gives the individual psychological and emotional support in the process.\n\nAlthough the specific responsibilities of a death doula vary from certification program to program, there are certain parallels through each. The services provided by a death doula can generally be broken down into two categories.\n\n\n\nMany people who become death midwives are “volunteers who feel strongly about creating a safe space.\" They are caring individuals who want to support patients in their end of life stages. Another reason people are attracted to this field is that “they want the contact, the involvement and they are drawn to the mission-making sure someone is not facing this [death process] alone”. People who become death doulas are there because they want to help the family and the patient through the whole process, as a neutral third party.\n\nThere are many private organizations that offer a certification program, including the non-profit A Sacred Passing, the funeral home Sacred Crossings, Beyond Hospice, Earth Traditions, non-profit INELDA, the International End of Life Doula Association, and Quality of Life Care. The International End of Life Doula Association (INELDA) was founded in 2015. Their mission statement says they are “dedicated to bringing deeper meaning and greater comfort to dying people and loved ones in the last days of life”. They emphasize the need for a doula certification process to create a standard for the field. Anyone can become a death doula and training opportunities are offered internationally. The steps included for certification include hands-on work in the field with evaluations and exams to display sufficient knowledge.\n\nCertification is not available in traditional educational environments; it usually is offered in shorter, paid training sessions. The Doula Program in New York is a volunteer organization that focuses on the relationship between the doula and the dying. Instead of certification, volunteers submit an application in a pool of around 300, and around 12 are admitted each cycle.\n\nPublic certification programs associated with hospitals and more closely tied with clinical care are restricted to a few pilot programs. These often involve training spanning multiple weeks similarly to the private programs, however, they are often more related to palliative care and putting the terminally ill patient in a more comfortable situation through clinical means and mental health counseling rather than focusing so much on the spiritual and emotional support aspect. These programs include Baylor University Medical Center's Support and Palliative Care Service's Doula to Accompany and Comfort Program, as well as New York University Medical Center's Department of Social Services nonsectarian volunteer doula program.\n\nThe term Doula originally came from ancient Greece, where the term was used to define an individual as a servant or in some extreme cases, a slave. The term doula was more commonly used again in roughly the 1960s where it often defined an individual who assisted in the birthing process. This individual was often a woman, one that not only helped during the birthing process but also provided support for women before and after the birth as well. Recently the term Death Doula has been coined to refer to a trained person who provides a dying individual and their family with assistance and resources.\n\nThe role of a death midwife is consistent with the more holistic approach taken in hospice care. As a result, some hospitals and hospice centers that deal with end of life patients have had their own staff's counselors go through death doula training. This can be carried out through the organization International End of Life Doula Association (INELDA), which provides training sessions across four countries.\n\nThe death midwife phenomenon is associated with the \"Death Positive\" movement. It has also been linked to increasing interest in alternative methods of dealing with remains, including green burials, conservation burials, and home burials. Death doulas are trained to have the knowledge to provide the family with after-life alternative death care options. A goal of many death doulas is to provide information about alternatives to cremation or conventional burial, such as natural or green burial, and \"flameless cremation\" or alkaline hydrolysis, which is legal in 14 states. Other environmentally sustainable methods of final disposition are being developed, including human composting, or \"recomposition.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "989154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989154", "title": "Distributed cognition", "text": "Distributed cognition\n\nDistributed cognition is an approach to cognitive science research that deploys models of the extended mind (see, for example, the paper \"The Extended Mind\") by taking as the fundamental unit of analysis \"a collection of individuals and artifacts and their relations to each other in a particular work practice\" . \"DCog\" is a specific approach to distributed cognition (distinct from other meanings) which takes a computational perspective towards goal-based activity systems. Dcog frameworks employed were originally developed in the mid-1980s by Edwin Hutchins, who continues to be the leading pioneer and whose research is based at the University of California at San Diego.\n\nUsing insights from sociology, cognitive science, and the psychology of Vygotsky (cf. cultural-historical psychology) it emphasizes the ways that cognition is off-loaded into the environment through social and technological means. It is a framework for studying cognition rather than a type of cognition. This framework involves the coordination between individuals, artifacts and the environment. \nAccording to Zhang & Norman (1994), the distributed cognition approach has three key components:\n\n'Dcog' studies the \"propagation of representational states across media\" (Rogers and Ellis, ibid.). Mental content is considered to be non-reducible to individual cognition and is more properly understood as off-loaded and extended into the environment, where information is also made available to other agents (Heylighen, Heath, & Overwalle, 2003). It is often understood as an approach in specific opposition to earlier and still prevalent \"brain in a vat\" models which ignore \"situatedness, embodiment and enaction\" as key to any cognitive act (Ibid.).\n\nThese representation-based frameworks consider distributed cognition as \"a cognitive system whose structures and processes are distributed between internal and external representations, across a group of individuals, and across space and time\" (Zhang and Patel, 2006). In general terms, they consider a distributed cognition system to have two components: internal and external representations. In their description, internal representations are knowledge and structure in individuals' minds while external representations are knowledge and structure in the external environment (Zhang, 1997b; Zhang and Norman, 1994).\n\nDCog studies the ways that memories, facts, or knowledge is embedded in the objects, individuals, and tools in our environment. DCog is a useful approach for (re)designing the technologically mediated social aspects of cognition by putting emphasis on the individual and his/her environment, and the media channels with which people interact, either in order to communicate with each other, or socially coordinate to perform complex tasks. Distributed cognition views a system of cognition as a set of representations propagated through specific media, and models the interchange of information between these representational media. These representations can be either in the mental space of the participants or external representations available in the environment.\n\nThese interactions can be categorized into three distinct types of processes: \n\nJohn Milton Roberts thought that social organization could be seen as cognition through a community . He described the cognitive aspects of a society by looking at the present information and how it moves through the people in the society.\n\nDaniel L. Schwartz (1978) proposed a distribution of cognition through culture and the distribution of beliefs across the members of a society.\n\nIn 1998, Mark Perry from Brunel University London explored the problems and the benefits brought by distributed cognition to \"understanding the organisation of information within its contexts.\" He considered that distributed cognition draws from the information processing metaphor of cognitive science where a system is considered in terms of its inputs and outputs and tasks are decomposed into a problem space (Perry, 1998). He believed that information should be studied through the representation within the media or artifact that represents the information. Cognition is said to be \"socially distributed\" when it is applied to demonstrate how interpersonal processes can be used to coordinate activity within a social group.\n\nIn 1999, Gavriel Salomon stated that there were two classes of distributive cognition: shared cognition and off-loading. Shared cognition is that which is shared among people through common activity such as conversation where there is a constant change of cognition based on the other person's responses. An example of off-loading would be using a calculator to do arithmetic or a creating a grocery list when going shopping. In that sense, the cognitive duties are off-loaded to a material object.\n\nLater, John Sutton (2006) defined five appropriate domains of investigation for research in Dcog:\n\nThe application area of DCog is systems design and implementation in specific work environments. Its main method is field research, going into the workplace and making rigorous observations, e.g. through capturing work performances with video, studying and coding the recorded activities using qualitative research methods to codify the various ways in which cognition is distributed in the local environment, through the social and technical systems with which the workers engage.\n\nDistributed cognition as a theory of learning, i.e. one in which the development of knowledge is attributed to the system of thinking agents interacting dynamically with artifacts, has been widely applied in the field of distance learning, especially in relation to computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) and other computer-supported learning tools. For example, in the field of teaching English Composition, Kevin LaGrandeur has argued that CSCL provides a source of common memory, collaborative space, and a cognitive artifact (tool to enhance cognition) that allows students to more easily build effective written compositions via explicit and implicit machine-human collaboration. Distributed cognition illustrates the process of interaction between people and technologies in order to determine how to best represent, store and provide access to digital resources and other artifacts.\n\nCollaborative tagging on the World Wide Web is one of the most recent developments in technological support for distributed cognition. Beginning in 2004 and quickly becoming a standard on websites, collaborative tagging allows users to upload or select materials (e.g. pictures, music files, texts, websites) and associate tags with these materials. Tags can be chosen freely, and are similar to keywords. Other users can then browse through tags; a click on a tag connects a user to similarly tagged materials. Tags furthermore enable tag clouds, which graphically represent the popularity of tags, demonstrating co-occurrence relations between tags and thus jump from one tag to another.\n\nDcog has also been used to understand learning and communication in clinical settings and to obtain an integrated view of clinical workplace learning. It has been observed how medical actors use and connect gestural practices, along with visual and haptic structures of their own bodies and of artifacts such as technological instruments and computational devices. In so doing they co-construct complex, multimodal representations that go beyond the mental representations usually studied from a cognitive perspective of learning (Pimmer, Pachler & Genewein, 2013).\n\nDistributed cognition can also be seen through cultures and communities. Learning certain habits or following certain traditions is seen as cognition distributed over a group of people. Exploring distributed cognition through community and culture is one way to understand how it may work.\n\nWith the new research that is emerging in this field, the overarching concept of distributed cognition enhances the understanding of interactions between individual human beings and artifacts such as technologies and machines, and complex external environments. This concept has been applied to educational research in the areas of distributed leadership and distributed instruction.\n\nDistributed cognition is seen when using paper and pencil to do a complicated arithmetic problem. The person doing the problem may talk with a friend to clarify the problem, and then must write the partial answers on the paper in order to be able to keep track of all the steps in the calculation. In this example, the parts of distributed cognition are seen in:\n\nThe process of working out the answer requires not only the perception and thought of two people, it also requires the use of a tool (paper) to extend an individual's memory. So the intelligence is distributed, both between people, and a person and an object.\n\nAnother well-researched site for analyzing distributed cognition and applying the discovered insights towards the design of more optimal systems is aviation, where both cockpits and air traffic control environments have been studied as scenes that technologically and socially distribute cognition through systems of externalized representational media. It is not the cognitive performance and expertise of any one single person or machine that is important for the continued operation or the landing and takeoff of airplanes. The cognition is distributed over the personnel, sensors, and machinery both in the plane and on the ground, including but not limited to the controllers, pilots and crew as a whole.\n\nHutchins also examined another scene of distributed cognition within the context of navigating a US navy vessel. In his book on USS Palau, he explains in detail how distributed cognition is manifested through the interaction between crew members as they interpret, process, and transform information into various representational states in order to safely navigate the ship. In this functional unit, crew members (e.g. pelorus operators, bearing takers, plotters, and the ship's captain) play the role of actors who transform information into different representational states (i.e. triangulation, landmark sightings, bearings, and maps). In this context, navigation is embodied through the combined efforts of actors in the functional unit.\n\nIn his study on process, representation and taskworld, Mark Perry (1998) demonstrated how distributed cognition analysis can be conducted in a field study. His example was design analysis in Civil engineering. In this work, he showed how an information processing approach can be applied by carrying a detailed analysis of the background of the study - goals and resources, inputs and outputs, representations and processes, and transformational activity, \"how information was transformed from the design drawings and site onto tables of measurements (different representations)\" and then onto \"a graphical representation\" which provided a clearer demonstration of the relationship between the two data sets (Perry, 1998).\n\nOn educational psychology:\nOn cognitive science:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "214269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214269", "title": "Emergent algorithm", "text": "Emergent algorithm\n\nAn emergent algorithm is an algorithm that exhibits emergent behavior. In essence an emergent algorithm implements a set of simple \"building block\" behaviors that when combined exhibit more complex behaviors. One example of this is the implementation of fuzzy motion controllers used to adapt robot movement in response to environmental obstacles.\n\nAn emergent algorithm has the following characteristics: \n\n\nOther examples of emergent algorithms and models include cellular automata, artificial neural networks and swarm intelligence systems (ant colony optimization, bees algorithm, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "40041453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40041453", "title": "Exobiology Radiation Assembly", "text": "Exobiology Radiation Assembly\n\nExobiology Radiation Assembly (ERA) was an experiment that investigated the biological effects of space radiation, on board the European Retrievable Carrier (EURECA), an unmanned 4.5 tonne satellite with a payload of 15 experiments. It was an astrobiology mission developed by the European Space Agency (ESA).\n\nIt was launched 31 July 1992 by STS-46 - \"Space Shuttle Atlantis\", and put into an orbit at an altitude of 508 km. EURECA was retrieved on 1 July 1993 by STS-57- \"Space Shuttle Endeavour\" and returned to Earth for further analysis.\n\nThe general goal of the experiment was to study the response of dehydrated and metabolically dormant microorganisms (spores of \"Bacillus subtilis\", cells of \"Deinococcus radiodurans\", conidial spores of \"Aspergillus species\") and cellular constituents (plasmid DNA, proteins, purple membranes, amino acids, urea) to the extremely dehydrating conditions of outer space, in some cases in combination with irradiation by solar UV light.\n\nThe Exobiology Radiation Assembly (ERA) provided information on the exposure of invertebrates, microorganisms and organic molecules to long-term exposure to outer space conditions, such as ultraviolet (UV) radiation, cosmic radiation and vacuum.\n\nSpores of different strains of \"Bacillus subtilis\" and the \"Escherichia coli\" plasmid pUC19 were exposed to selected conditions of space (space vacuum and/or defined wavebands and intensities of solar ultraviolet radiation). After the approximately 11 months lasting mission, their responses were studied in terms of survival, mutagenesis in the \"his\" (\"B. subtilis\") or \"lac\" locus (pUC19), induction of DNA strand breaks, efficiency of DNA repair systems, and the role of external protective agents. The data were compared with those of a simultaneously running ground control experiment:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "564380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564380", "title": "Expression vector", "text": "Expression vector\n\nAn expression vector, otherwise known as an expression construct, is usually a plasmid or virus designed for gene expression in cells. The vector is used to introduce a specific gene into a target cell, and can commandeer the cell's mechanism for protein synthesis to produce the protein encoded by the gene. Expression vectors are the basic tools in biotechnology for the production of proteins.\n\nThe vector is engineered to contain regulatory sequences that act as enhancer and promoter regions and lead to efficient transcription of the gene carried on the expression vector. The goal of a well-designed expression vector is the efficient production of protein, and this may be achieved by the production of significant amount of stable messenger RNA, which can then be translated into protein. The expression of a protein may be tightly controlled, and the protein is only produced in significant quantity when necessary through the use of an inducer, in some systems however the protein may be expressed constitutively. \"Escherichia coli\" is commonly used as the host for protein production, but other cell types may also be used. An example of the use of expression vector is the production of insulin, which is used for medical treatments of diabetes.\n\nAn expression vector has features that any vector may have, such as an origin of replication, a selectable marker, and a suitable site for the insertion of a gene such as the multiple cloning site. The cloned gene may be transferred from a specialized cloning vector to an expression vector, although it is possible to clone directly into an expression vector. The cloning process is normally performed in \"Escherichia coli\", and vectors used for protein production in organisms other than \"E.coli\" may have, in addition to a suitable origin of replication for its propagation in \"E. coli\", elements that allow them to be maintained in another organism, and these vectors are called shuttle vectors.\n\nAn expression vector must have elements necessary for gene expression. These may include a promoter, the correct translation initiation sequence such as a ribosomal binding site and start codon, a termination codon, and a transcription termination sequence. There are differences in the machinery for protein synthesis between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, therefore the expression vectors must have the elements for expression that is appropriate for the chosen host. For example, prokaryotes expression vectors would have a Shine-Dalgarno sequence at its translation initiation site for the binding of ribosomes, while eukaryotes expression vectors would contain the Kozak consensus sequence.\n\nThe promoter initiates the transcription and is therefore the point of control for the expression of the cloned gene. The promoters used in expression vector are normally inducible, meaning that protein synthesis is only initiated when required by the introduction of an inducer such as IPTG. Gene expression however may also be constitutive (i.e. protein is constantly expressed) in some expression vectors. Low level of constitutive protein synthesis may occur even in expression vectors with tightly controlled promoters.\n\nAfter the expression of the gene product, it is usually necessary to purify the expressed protein; however, separating the protein of interest from the great majority of proteins of the host cell can be a protracted process. To make this purification process easier, a purification tag may be added to the cloned gene. This tag could be histidine (His) tag, other marker peptides, or a fusion partners such as glutathione S-transferase or maltose-binding protein. Some of these fusion partners may also help to increase the solubility of some expressed proteins. Other fusion proteins such as green fluorescent protein may act as a reporter gene for the identification of successful cloned genes.\n\nThe expression vector is transformed or transfected into the host cell for protein synthesis. Some expression vectors may have elements for transformation or the insertion of DNA into the host chromosome, for example the \"vir\" genes for plant transformation, and integrase sites for chromosomal integration .\n\nSome vectors may include targeting sequence that may target the expressed protein to a specific location such as the periplasmic space of bacteria.\n\nDifferent organisms may be used to express a gene's target protein, and the expression vector used will therefore have elements specific for use in the particular organism. The most commonly used organism for protein production is the bacterium \"Escherichia coli\". However, not all proteins can be successfully expressed in \"E. coli\", or be expressed with the correct form of post-translational modifications such as glycosylations, and other systems may therefore be used.\n\nThe expression host of choice for the expression of many proteins is \"Escherichia coli\" as the production of heterologous protein in \"E. coli\" is relatively simple and convenient, as well as being rapid and cheap. A large number of \"E. coli\" expression plasmids are also available for a wide variety of needs. Other bacteria used for protein production include \"Bacillus subtilis\".\n\nMost heterologous proteins are expressed in the cytoplasm of \"E. coli\". However, not all proteins formed may be soluble in the cytoplasm, and incorrectly folded proteins formed in cytoplasm can form insoluble aggregates called inclusion bodies. Such insoluble proteins will require refolding, which can be an involved process and may not necessarily produce high yield. Proteins which have disulphide bonds are often not able to fold correctly due to the reducing environment in the cytoplasm which prevents such bond formation, and a possible solution is to target the protein to the periplasmic space by the use of an N-terminal signal sequence. Another possibility is to manipulate the redox environment of the cytoplasm. Other more sophisticated systems are also being developed; such systems may allow for the expression of proteins previously thought impossible in \"E. coli\", such as glycosylated proteins.\n\nThe promoters used for these vector are usually based on the promoter of the \"lac\" operon or the T7 promoter, and they are normally regulated by the \"lac\" operator. These promoters may also be hybrids of different promoters, for example, the Tac-Promoter is a hybrid of \"trp\" and \"lac\" promoters. Note that most commonly used \"lac\" or \"lac\"-derived promoters are based on the \"lac\"UV5 mutant which is insensitive to catabolite repression. This mutant allows for expression of protein under the control of the \"lac\" promoter when the growth medium contains glucose since glucose would inhibit gene expression if wild-type \"lac\" promoter is used. Presence of glucose nevertheless may still be used to reduce background expression through residual inhibition in some systems.\n\nExamples of \"E. coli\" expression vectors are the pGEX series of vectors where glutathione S-transferase is used as a fusion partner and gene expression is under the control of the tac promoter, and the pET series of vectors which uses a T7 promoter.\n\nIt is possible to simultaneously express two or more different proteins in \"E. coli\" using different plasmids. However, when 2 or more plasmids are used, each plasmid needs to use a different antibiotic selection as well as a different origin of replication, otherwise one of the plasmids may not be stably maintained. Many commonly used plasmids are based on the ColE1 replicon and are therefore incompatible with each other; in order for a ColE1-based plasmid to coexist with another in the same cell, the other would need to be of a different replicon, e.g. a p15A replicon-based plasmid such as the pACYC series of plasmids. Another approach would be to use a single two-cistron vector or design the coding sequences in tandem as a bi- or poly-cistronic construct.\n\nA yeast commonly used for protein production is \"Pichia pastoris\". Examples of yeast expression vector in \"Pichia\" are the pPIC series of vectors, and these vectors use the AOX1 promoter which is inducible with methanol. The plasmids may contain elements for insertion of foreign DNA into the yeast genome and signal sequence for the secretion of expressed protein. Proteins with disulphide bonds and glycosylation can be efficiently produced in yeast. Another yeast used for protein production is \"Kluyveromyces lactis\" and the gene is expressed, driven by a variant of the strong lactase LAC4 promoter.\n\n\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" is particularly widely used for gene expression studies in yeast, for example in yeast two-hybrid system for the study of protein-protein interaction. The vectors used in yeast two-hybrid system contain fusion partners for two cloned genes that allow the transcription of a reporter gene when there is interaction between the two proteins expressed from the cloned genes.\n\nBaculovirus, a rod-shaped virus which infects insect cells, is used as the expression vector in this system. Insect cell lines derived from Lepidopterans (moths and butterflies), such as \"Spodoptera frugiperda\", are used as host. A cell line derived from the cabbage looper is of particular interest, as it has been developed to grow fast and without the expensive serum normally needed to boost cell growth. The shuttle vector is called bacmid, and gene expression is under the control of a strong promoter pPolh. Baculovirus has also been used with mammalian cell lines in the BacMam system.\n\nBaculovirus is normally used for production of glycoproteins, although the glycosylations may be different from those found in vertebrates. In general, it is safer to use than mammalian virus as it has a limited host range and does not infect vertebrates without modifications.\n\nMany plant expression vectors are based on the Ti plasmid of \"Agrobacterium tumefaciens\". In these expression vectors, DNA to be inserted into plant is cloned into the T-DNA, a stretch of DNA flanked by a 25-bp direct repeat sequence at either end, and which can integrate into the plant genome. The T-DNA also contains the selectable marker. The \"Agrobacterium\" provides a mechanism for transformation, integration of into the plant genome, and the promoters for its \"vir\" genes may also be used for the cloned genes. Concerns over the transfer of bacterial or viral genetic material into the plant however have led to the development of vectors called intragenic vectors whereby functional equivalents of plant genome are used so that there is no transfer of genetic material from an alien species into the plant.\n\nPlant viruses may be used as vectors since the \"Agrobacterium\" method does not work for all plants. Examples of plant virus used are the tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), potato virus X, and cowpea mosaic virus. The protein may be expressed as a fusion to the coat protein of the virus and is displayed on the surface of assembled viral particles, or as an unfused protein that accumulates within the plant. Expression in plant using plant vectors is often constitutive, and a commonly used constitutive promoter in plant expression vectors is the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter.\n\nMammalian expression vectors offer considerable advantages for the expression of mammalian proteins over bacterial expression systems - proper folding, post-translational modifications, and relevant enzymatic activity. It may also be more desirable than other eukaryotic non-mammalian systems whereby the proteins expressed may not contain the correct glycosylations. It is of particular use in producing membrane-associating proteins that require chaperones for proper folding and stability as well as containing numerous post-translational modifications. The downside, however, is the low yield of product in comparison to prokaryotic vectors as well as the costly nature of the techniques involved. Its complicated technology, and potential contamination with animal viruses of mammalian cell expression have also placed a constraint on its use in large-scale industrial production.\n\nCultured mammalian cell lines such as the Chinese hamster ovary (CHO), COS, including human cell lines such as HEK and HeLa may be used to produce protein. Vectors are transfected into the cells and the DNA may be integrated into the genome by homologous recombination in the case of stable transfection, or the cells may be transiently transfected. Examples of mammalian expression vectors include the adenoviral vectors, the pSV and the pCMV series of plasmid vectors, vaccinia and retroviral vectors, as well as baculovirus. The promoters for cytomegalovirus (CMV) and SV40 are commonly used in mammalian expression vectors to drive gene expression. Non-viral promoter, such as the elongation factor (EF)-1 promoter, is also known.\n\n\"E. coli\" cell lysate containing the cellular components required for transcription and translation are used in this \"in vitro\" method of protein production. The advantage of such system is that protein may be produced much faster than those produced \"in vivo\" since it does not require time to culture the cells, but it is also more expensive. Vectors used for \"E. coli\" expression can be used in this system although specifically designed vectors for this system are also available. Eukaryotic cell extracts may also be used in other cell-free systems, for example, the wheat germ cell-free expression systems. Mammalian cell-free systems have also been produced.\n\nExpression vector in an expression host is now the usual method used in laboratories to produce proteins for research. Most proteins are produced in \"E. coli\", but for glycosylated proteins and those with disulphide bonds, yeast, baculovirus and mammalian systems may be used.\n\nMost protein pharmaceuticals are now produced through recombinant DNA technology using expression vectors. These peptide and protein pharmaceuticals may be hormones, vaccines, antibiotics, antibodies, and enzymes. The first human recombinant protein used for disease management, insulin, was introduced in 1982. Biotechnology allows these peptide and protein pharmaceuticals, some of which were previously rare or difficult to obtain, to be produced in large quantity. It also reduces the risks of contaminants such as host viruses, toxins and prions. Examples from the past include prion contamination in growth hormone extracted from pituitary glands harvested from human cadavers, which caused Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease in patients receiving treatment for dwarfism, and viral contaminants in clotting factor VIII isolated from human blood that resulted in the transmission of viral diseases such as hepatitis and AIDS. Such risk is reduced or removed completely when the proteins are produced in non-human host cells.\n\nIn recent years, expression vectors have been used to introduce specific genes into plants and animals to produce transgenic organisms, for example in agriculture it is used to produce transgenic plants. Expression vectors have been used to introduce a vitamin A precursor, beta-carotene, into rice plants. This product is called golden rice. This process has also been used to introduce a gene into plants that produces an insecticide, called Bacillus thuringiensis toxin or Bt toxin which reduces the need for farmers to apply insecticides since it is produced by the modified organism. In addition expression vectors are used to extend the ripeness of tomatoes by altering the plant so that it produces less of the chemical that causes the tomatoes to rot. There have been controversies over using expression vectors to modify crops due to the fact that there might be unknown health risks, possibilities of companies patenting certain genetically modified food crops, and ethical concerns. Nevertheless, this technique is still being used and heavily researched.\n\nTransgenic animals have also been produced to study animal biochemical processes and human diseases, or used to produce pharmaceuticals and other proteins. They may also be engineered to have advantageous or useful traits. Green fluorescent protein is sometimes used as tags which results in animal that can fluoresce, and this have been exploited commercially to produce the fluorescent GloFish.\n\nGene therapy is a promising treatment for a number of diseases where a \"normal\" gene carried by the vector is inserted into the genome, to replace an \"abnormal\" gene or supplement the expression of particular gene. Viral vectors are generally used but other nonviral methods of delivery are being developed. The treatment is still a risky option due to the viral vector used which can cause ill-effects, for example giving rise to insertional mutation that can result in cancer. However, there have been promising results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12327567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12327567", "title": "FDA Special Protocol Assessment", "text": "FDA Special Protocol Assessment\n\nA Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) is an advanced declaration from the Food and Drug Administration that an uncompleted Phase III trial's design, clinical endpoints, and statistical analyses are acceptable for FDA approval. The purpose of a SPA is to allow a company to run or initiate a clinical trial of an experimental drug without fear that the FDA will object to the trial design itself, in the event that the company subsequently applies for product approval.\n\nThree types of protocols related to PDUFA products are eligible for this special protocol assessment under the PDUFA goals:\n\nThe clinical protocols for phase 3 trials can relate to efficacy claims that will be part of an original new drug application (NDA) or Biologic License Application (BLA) or that will be part of an efficacy supplement to an approved NDA or BLA.\n\n"}
{"id": "45150495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45150495", "title": "Fatma Sultan (daughter of Selim II)", "text": "Fatma Sultan (daughter of Selim II)\n\nFatma Sultan (1559–1580; Ottoman Turkish: فاطمہ سلطان) was an Ottoman princess, daughter of Sultan Selim II (reign 1566–74) of the Ottoman Empire. She was the granddaughter of Suleiman the Magnificent (reign 1520–66) and Hürrem Sultan, sister of Sultan Murad III (reign 1574–95) and aunt of Sultan Mehmed III (reign 1595–1603).\n\nFatma was born in 1559, during Selim's princedom, at Konya or Karaman where he served as sanjakbey, or provincial governor, at the time. Her mother's identity is uncertain; it is suggested that she was the fourth daughter of Nurbanu Sultan, however the claim remains disputed.\n\nShe was married, in 1574, to Damat Kanijeli Siyavuş Pasha (d. 1602) Governor of Rumelia, Grand Vizier 1582–1584, 1586–1589, 1592–1593. The marriage was happy, as indicated by the fact that she pleaded with her brother Murad to spare the Pasha's life when at some point the latter fell out of favour. She bore her husband three sons and a daughter.\nFatma Sultan died in October 1580 at Constantinople ,in childbirth, as a result of her daughter being born prematurely; the latter reportedly died too. She was buried in her father Sultan Selim II's mausoleum in Hagia Sophia Mosque. Her spouse named after her a madrasah, or religious college, he had built in around 1590–1591.\n\n"}
{"id": "47939729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47939729", "title": "François-Louis Schmied", "text": "François-Louis Schmied\n\nFrançois-Louis Schmied (born November 8, 1873 in Geneva; died January 1941 in Tahanaout, Morocco), was a French painter, wood engraver, printer, editor, illustrator, and bookbinder of Swiss origin.\n\nOf Swiss origin, François-Louis Schmied established himself in France, where he was later naturalized, and ultimately was exiled in Morocco around 1931 or 1932. He is considered a major artist in the Art Deco style, particularly in the area of publishing for bibliophiles. He is the father of engraver Théo Schmied, who directed François-Louis Schmied's workshop beginning in 1924.\n\nIn 1910 Schmied was commissioned to engrave and print Paul Jouve's illustrations for The Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling. This book was finally published in 1919 and brought Schmied considerable attention. The success of the production allowed Schmied to expand his operations, purchase a Stanhope handpress, and hire a group of craftsmen who helped Schmied execute some of his most famous and pioneering works such as Les Climats (1924), Daphne (1924), and Le Cantique des Cantiques (1925).\n\nSchmied books were very expensive to produce and were always printed in a very limited edition, usually numbering no more than 100-200 copies. His marketing strategy was to display sheets of his work in progress at an annual Parisian art fair and seek out the subscription of wealthy bibliophiles and other interested organizations. During the \"Roaring 20s\" it was not difficult to find suitable patrons, but with the onset of The Great Depression, the economic climate could no longer support Schmied's expensive projects and eventually he was forced to sell off virtually all his assets and close down his shop.\n\n"}
{"id": "46580681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46580681", "title": "Giovanni Sommaripa", "text": "Giovanni Sommaripa\n\nGiovanni Sommaripa (died 1468) was the lord of Andros island from 1466 until his death in battle against the Ottomans in 1468. He was a son of Domenico Sommaripa. He was succeeded by his brother, Crusino II Sommaripa.\n\n"}
{"id": "13811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13811", "title": "Heaven", "text": "Heaven\n\nHeaven, or the heavens, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, spirits, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. According to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases enter heaven alive.\n\nHeaven is often described as a \"higher place\", the holiest place, a Paradise, in contrast to hell or the Underworld or the \"low places\", and universally or conditionally accessible by earthly beings according to various standards of divinity, goodness, piety, faith, or other virtues or right beliefs or simply the will of God. Some believe in the possibility of a heaven on Earth in a World to Come.\n\nAnother belief is in an axis mundi or world tree which connects the heavens, the terrestrial world, and the underworld. In Indian religions, heaven is considered as \"Svarga loka\", and the soul is again subjected to rebirth in different living forms according to its \"karma\". This cycle can be broken after a soul achieves \"Moksha\" or \"Nirvana\". Any place of existence, either of humans, souls or deities, outside the tangible world (heaven, hell, or other) is referred to as \"otherworld.\"\n\nThe modern English word \"heaven\" is derived from the earlier (Middle English) \"heven\" (attested 1159); this in turn was developed from the previous Old English form \"heofon\". By about 1000, \"heofon\" was being used in reference to the Christianized \"place where God dwells\", but originally, it had signified \"sky, firmament\" (e.g. in \"Beowulf\", c. 725). The English term has cognates in the other Germanic languages: Old Saxon \"heƀan\" \"sky, heaven\" (hence also Middle Low German \"heven\" \"sky\"), Old Icelandic \"himinn\", Gothic \"himins\"; and those with a variant final \"-l\": Old Frisian \"himel, himul\" \"sky, heaven\", Old Saxon and Old High German \"himil\", Old Saxon and Middle Low German \"hemmel\", Old Dutch and Dutch \"hemel\", and modern German \"Himmel\". All of these have been derived from a reconstructed Proto-Germanic form *\"hemina-\". or \"*hemō\".\n\nThe further derivation of this form is uncertain. A connection to Proto-Indo-European \"*ḱem-\" \"cover, shroud\", via a reconstructed \"*k̑emen-\" or \"*k̑ōmen-\" \"stone, heaven\", has been proposed. Others endorse the derivation from a Proto-Indo-European root \"*h₂éḱmō\" \"stone\" and, possibly, \"heavenly vault\" at the origin of this word, which then would have as cognates Ancient Greek ἄκμων (ákmōn \"anvil, pestle; meteorite\"), Persian آسمان‎ (\"âsemân, âsmân\" \"stone, sling-stone; sky, heaven\") and Sanskrit अश्मन् (\"aśman\" \"stone, rock, sling-stone; thunderbolt; the firmament\"). In the latter case English \"hammer\" would be another cognate to the word.\n\nThe ancient Mesopotamians regarded the sky as a series of domes (usually three, but sometimes seven) covering the flat earth. Each dome was made of a different kind of precious stone. The lowest dome of heaven was made of jasper and was the home of the stars. The middle dome of heaven was made of \"saggilmut\" stone and was the abode of the Igigi. The highest and outermost dome of heaven was made of \"luludānītu\" stone and was personified as An, the god of the sky. The celestial bodies were equated with specific deities as well. The planet Venus was believed to be Inanna, the goddess of love, sex, and war. The sun was her brother Utu, the god of justice, and the moon was their father Nanna.\n\nIn ancient Near Eastern cultures in general and in Mesopotamia in particular, humans had little to no access to the divine realm. Heaven and earth were separated by their very nature; humans could see and be affected by elements of the lower heaven, such as stars and storms, but ordinary mortals could not go to heaven because it was the abode of the gods alone. In the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Gilgamesh says to Enkidu, \"Who can go up to heaven, my friend? Only the gods dwell with Shamash forever.\" Instead, after a person died, his or her soul went to Kur (later known as Irkalla), a dark shadowy underworld, located deep below the surface of the earth.\n\nAll souls went to the same afterlife, and a person's actions during life had no impact on how he would be treated in the world to come. Nonetheless, funerary evidence indicates that some people believed that Inanna had the power to bestow special favors upon her devotees in the afterlife. Despite the separation between heaven and earth, humans sought access to the gods through oracles and omens. The gods were believed to live in heaven, but also in their temples, which were seen as the channels of communication between earth and heaven, which allowed mortal access to the gods. The Ekur temple in Nippur was known as the \"Dur-an-ki\", the \"mooring-rope\" of heaven and earth. It was widely thought to have been built and established by Enlil himself.\n\nAlmost nothing is known of Bronze Age (pre-1200 BC) Canaanite views of heaven, and the archaeological findings at Ugarit (destroyed c. 1200 BC) have not provided information. The 1st century Greek author Philo of Byblos may preserve elements of Iron Age Phoenician religion in his \"Sanchuniathon\".\n\nThe ancient Hittites believed that some deities lived in Heaven, while others lived in remote places on earth, such as mountains, where humans had little access. In the Middle Hittite myths, heaven is the abode of the gods. In the Song of Kumarbi, Alalu was king in heaven for nine years before giving birth to his son, Anu. Anu was himself overthrown by his son, Kumarbi.\nAs in ancient Near Eastern cultures, in the Hebrew Bible, the universe is commonly divided into two realms: heaven (\"šāmayim\") and earth (\"’ereṣ\"). Sometimes a third realm is added: either \"sea\" (, ), \"water under the earth\" (, ), or sometimes a vague \"land of the dead\" that is never described in depth (, , ). The structure of heaven itself is never fully described in the Hebrew Bible, but the fact that the Hebrew word \"šāmayim\" is plural has been interpreted by scholars as an indication that the ancient Israelites envisioned the heavens as having multiple layers, much like the ancient Mesopotamians. This reading is also supported by the use of the phrase \"heaven of heavens\" in verses such as , , and and .\n\nIn line with the typical view of most Near Eastern cultures, the Hebrew Bible depicts heaven as a place that is inaccessible to humans. Although some prophets are occasionally granted temporary visionary access to heaven, such as in , and , and , they hear only God's deliberations concerning the earth and learn nothing of what heaven is like. There is almost no mention in the Hebrew Bible of heaven as a possible afterlife destination for human beings, who are instead described as \"resting\" in Sheol (, , ). The only two possible exceptions to this are Enoch, who is described in as having been \"taken\" by God, and the prophet Elijah, who is described in as having ascended to heaven in a chariot of fire. According to Michael B. Hundley, the text in both of these instances is ambiguous regarding the significance of the actions being described and in neither of these cases does the text explain what happened to the subject afterwards.\n\nThe God of the Israelites is described as ruling both heaven and earth ( , ). Other passages, such as state that even the vastness of heaven cannot contain God's majesty. A number of passages throughout the Hebrew Bible indicate that heaven and earth will one day come to an end (, , , , , , and and ). This view is paralleled in other ancient Near Eastern cultures, which also regarded heaven and earth as vulnerable and subject to dissolution. However, the Hebrew Bible differs from other ancient Near Eastern cultures in that it portrays the God of Israel as independent of creation and unthreatened by its potential destruction. Because most of the Hebrew Bible concerns the God of Israel's relationship with his people, most of the events described in it take place on earth, not in heaven. The Deuteronomistic source, Deuteronomistic History, and Priestly source all portray the Temple in Jerusalem as the sole channel of communication between earth and heaven.\n\nDuring the period of the Second Temple ( 515 BC – 70 AD), the Jewish people lived under the rule of first the Persian Achaemenid Empire, then the Greek kingdoms of the Diadochi, and finally the Roman Empire. Their culture was profoundly influenced by those of the peoples who ruled them. Consequently, their views on existence after death were profoundly shaped by the ideas of the Persians, Greeks, and Romans. The idea of the immortality of the soul is derived from Greek philosophy and the idea of the resurrection of the dead is derived from Persian cosmology. By the early first century AD, these two seemingly incompatible ideas were often conflated by Jewish thinkers. The Jews also inherited from the Persians, Greeks, and Romans the idea that the human soul originates in the divine realm and seeks to return there. The idea that a human soul belongs in heaven and that the earth is merely a temporary abode in which the soul is tested to prove its worthiness became increasingly popular during the Hellenistic period (323 – 31 BC). Gradually, some Jews began to adopt the idea of heaven as the eternal home of the righteous dead.\n\nDescriptions of heaven in the New Testament are more fully developed than those in the Old Testament, but are still generally vague. As in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, God is described as the ruler of heaven and earth, but his power over the earth is challenged by Satan. Sayings of Jesus recorded in the Gospels of Mark and Luke speak of the \"Kingdom of God\" (; ), while the Gospel of Matthew more commonly uses the term \"Kingdom of Heaven\" (; ). Both phrases have exactly the same meaning, but the author of the Gospel of Matthew changed the name \"Kingdom of God\" to \"Kingdom of Heaven\" in most instances because it was the more acceptable phrase in his own cultural and religious context in the late first century.\n\nModern scholars agree that the Kingdom of God was an essential part of the teachings of the historical Jesus. In spite of this, none of the gospels ever record Jesus as having explained exactly what the phrase \"Kingdom of God\" means. The most likely explanation for this apparent omission is that the Kingdom of God was a commonly understood concept that required no explanation. Jews in Judea during the early first century believed that God reigns eternally in Heaven, but many also believed that God would eventually establish his kingdom on earth as well. This belief is referenced in the first petition of the Lord's Prayer, taught by Jesus to his disciples and recorded in both and : \"Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.\"\n\nBecause God's Kingdom was believed to be superior to any human kingdom, this meant that God would necessarily drive out the Romans, who ruled Judea, and establish his own direct rule over the Jewish people. In the teachings of the historical Jesus, people are expected to prepare for the coming of the Kingdom of God by living moral lives. Jesus's commands for his followers to adopt lifestyles of moral perfectionism are found in many passages throughout the Synoptic Gospels, particularly in the Sermon on the Mount in . Jesus also taught that, in the Kingdom of Heaven, there would be a reversal of roles in which \"the last will be first and the first will be last\" (, , , and ). This teaching recurs throughout the recorded teachings of Jesus, including in the admonition to be like a child in , , and , the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus in , the Parable of the Workers in the Vineyard in , the Parable of the Great Banquet in , and the Parable of the Prodigal Son in .\n\nTraditionally, Christianity has taught that heaven is the location of the throne of God as well as the holy angels, although this is in varying degrees considered metaphorical. In traditional Christianity, it is considered a state or condition of existence (rather than a particular place somewhere in the cosmos) of the supreme fulfillment of theosis in the beatific vision of the Godhead. In most forms of Christianity, heaven is also understood as the abode for the redeemed dead in the afterlife, usually a temporary stage before the resurrection of the dead and the saints' return to the New Earth.\n\nThe resurrected Jesus is said to have ascended to heaven where he now sits at the Right Hand of God and will return to earth in the Second Coming. Various people have been said to have entered heaven while still alive, including Enoch, Elijah and Jesus himself, after his resurrection. According to Roman Catholic teaching, Mary, mother of Jesus, is also said to have been assumed into heaven and is titled the Queen of Heaven.\n\nIn the 2nd century AD, Irenaeus of Lyons recorded a belief that, in accordance with , those who in the afterlife see the Saviour are in different mansions, some dwelling in the heavens, others in paradise and others in \"the city\".\n\nWhile the word used in all these writings, in particular the New Testament Greek word οὐρανός (\"ouranos\"), applies primarily to the sky, it is also used metaphorically of the dwelling place of God and the blessed. Similarly, though the English word \"heaven\" still keeps its original physical meaning when used, for instance, in allusions to the stars as \"lights shining through from heaven\", and in phrases such as heavenly body to mean an astronomical object, the heaven or happiness that Christianity looks forward to is, according to Pope John Paul II, \"neither an abstraction nor a physical place in the clouds, but a living, personal relationship with the Holy Trinity. It is our meeting with the Father which takes place in the risen Christ through the communion of the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nWhile the concept of heaven (\"malkuth hashamaim\" מלכות השמים, the Kingdom of Heaven) is much discussed within the Christian and Islamic religions, the Jewish concept of the afterlife, sometimes known as \"olam haba\", the World-to-come, is not discussed so often. The Torah has little to say on the subject of survival after death, but by the time of the rabbis two ideas had made inroads among the Jews: one, which is probably derived from Greek thought, is that of the immortal soul which returns to its creator after death; the other, which is thought to be of Persian origin, is that of resurrection of the dead.\n\nJewish writings refer to a \"new earth\" as the abode of mankind following the resurrection of the dead. Originally, the two ideas of immortality and resurrection were different but in rabbinic thought they are combined: the soul departs from the body at death but is returned to it at the resurrection. This idea is linked to another rabbinic teaching, that men's good and bad actions are rewarded and punished not in this life but after death, whether immediately or at the subsequent resurrection. Around 1 CE, the Pharisees are said to have maintained belief in resurrection but the Sadducees are said to have denied it (Matt. 22:23).\n\nThe Mishnah has many sayings about the World to Come, for example, \"Rabbi Yaakov said: This world is like a lobby before the World to Come; prepare yourself in the lobby so that you may enter the banquet hall.\"\n\nJudaism holds that the righteous of all nations have a share in the World-to-come.\n\nAccording to Nicholas de Lange, Judaism offers no clear teaching about the destiny which lies in wait for the individual after death and its attitude to life after death has been expressed as follows: \"For the future is inscrutable, and the accepted sources of knowledge, whether experience, or reason, or revelation, offer no clear guidance about what is to come. The only certainty is that each man must die - beyond that we can only guess.\"\n\nAccording to Tracey R. Rich of the website \"Judaism 101\", Judaism, unlike other world-religions, is not focused on the quest of getting into heaven but on life and how to live it.\n\nIn order from lowest to highest, the seven heavens, \"Shamayim\" (שָׁמַיִם), according to the Talmud, are listed alongside the angels who govern them:\n\n\nThe Quran contains many references to an afterlife in Eden for those who do good deeds. Regarding the concept of heaven (Jannah) in the Quran, verse 35 of Surah Al-Ra’d says, \"The parable of the Garden which the righteous are promised! Beneath it flow rivers. Perpetual is the fruits thereof and the shade therein. Such is the End of the Righteous; and the end of the unbelievers is the Fire.\" Islam rejects the concept of original sin, and Muslims believe that all human beings are born pure. Children automatically go to heaven when they die, regardless of the religion of their parents.\n\nThe concept of heaven in Islam differs in many respects to the concept in Judaism and Christianity. Heaven is described primarily in physical terms as a place where every wish is immediately fulfilled when asked. Islamic texts describe immortal life in heaven as happy, without negative emotions. Those who dwell in heaven are said to wear costly apparel, partake in exquisite banquets, and recline on couches inlaid with gold or precious stones. Inhabitants will rejoice in the company of their parents, spouses, and children. In Islam if one's good deeds outweigh one's sins then one may gain entrance to heaven. Conversely, if one's sins outweigh their good deeds they are sent to hell. The more good deeds one has performed the higher the level of heaven one is directed to. It has been said that the lowest level of heaven, the first one, is already over one-hundred times better than the greatest life on Earth. Houses are built by angels for the occupants using solid gold.\n\nVerses which describe heaven include: , , , , , .\n\nIslamic texts refer to several levels of heaven: Firdaus or Paradise, 'Adn (Eden), Jannatun-Na'iim (heaven of delight), Ma'wa (refuge), Darussalaam (home of peace), Daarul-Muqaamah (home of permanence), Al-Muqqamul Amin (the secure place) & Jannattul-Khuld (heaven of immortality).\n\nAccording to the Ahmadiyya view, much of the imagery presented in the Quran regarding heaven, but also hell, is in fact metaphorical. They propound the verse which describes, according to them how the life to come after death is very different from the life here on earth. The Quran says: According to Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of Ahmadiyya sect in Islam, the soul will give birth to another rarer entity and will resemble the life on this earth in the sense that this entity will bear a similar relationship to the soul, as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. On earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of God, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures as opposed to carnal desires. With this, an \"embryonic soul\" begins to take shape. Different tastes are said to be born which a person given to carnal passions finds no enjoyment. For example, sacrifice of one's own's rights over that of other's becomes enjoyable, or that forgiveness becomes second nature. In such a state a person finds contentment and Peace at heart and at this stage, according to Ahmadiyya beliefs, it can be said that a soul within the soul has begun to take shape.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith regards the conventional description of heaven (and hell) as a specific place as symbolic. The Bahá'í writings describe heaven as a \"spiritual condition\" where closeness to God is defined as heaven; conversely hell is seen as a state of remoteness from God. Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, has stated that the nature of the life of the soul in the afterlife is beyond comprehension in the physical plane, but has stated that the soul will retain its consciousness and individuality and remember its physical life; the soul will be able to recognize other souls and communicate with them.\n\nFor Bahá'ís, entry into the next life has the potential to bring great joy. Bahá'u'lláh likened death to the process of birth. He explains: \"The world beyond is as different from this world as this world is different from that of the child while still in the womb of its mother.\" The analogy to the womb in many ways summarizes the Bahá'í view of earthly existence: just as the womb constitutes an important place for a person's initial physical development, the physical world provides for the development of the individual soul. Accordingly, Bahá'ís view life as a preparatory stage, where one can develop and perfect those qualities which will be needed in the next life. The key to spiritual progress is to follow the path outlined by the current Manifestation of God, which Bahá'ís believe is currently Bahá'u'lláh. Bahá'u'lláh wrote, \"Know thou, of a truth, that if the soul of man hath walked in the ways of God, it will, assuredly return and be gathered to the glory of the Beloved.\"\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that there exists a hierarchy of souls in the afterlife, where the merits of each soul determines their place in the hierarchy, and that souls lower in the hierarchy cannot completely understand the station of those above. Each soul can continue to progress in the afterlife, but the soul's development is not entirely dependent on its own conscious efforts, the nature of which we are not aware, but also augmented by the grace of God, the prayers of others, and good deeds performed by others on Earth in the name of that person.\n\nIn the native Chinese Confucian traditions, heaven (Tian) is an important concept, where the ancestors reside and from which emperors drew their mandate to rule in their dynastic propaganda, for example.\n\nHeaven is a key concept in Chinese mythology, philosophies and religions, and is on one end of the spectrum a synonym of \"Shangdi\" (\"Supreme Deity\") and on the other naturalistic end, a synonym for nature and the sky. The Chinese term for \"heaven\", \"Tian\" (天), derives from the name of the supreme deity of the Zhou Dynasty. After their conquest of the Shang Dynasty in 1122 BC, the Zhou people considered their supreme deity \"Tian\" to be identical with the Shang supreme deity \"Shangdi\". The Zhou people attributed heaven with anthropomorphic attributes, evidenced in the etymology of the Chinese character for heaven or sky, which originally depicted a person with a large cranium. heaven is said to see, hear and watch over all men. heaven is affected by man's doings, and having personality, is happy and angry with them. Heaven blesses those who please it and sends calamities upon those who offend it. Heaven was also believed to transcend all other spirits and gods, with Confucius asserting, \"He who offends against Heaven has none to whom he can pray.\"\n\nOther philosophers born around the time of Confucius such as Mozi took an even more theistic view of heaven, believing that heaven is the divine ruler, just as the Son of Heaven (the King of Zhou) is the earthly ruler. Mozi believed that spirits and minor gods exist, but their function is merely to carry out the will of heaven, watching for evil-doers and punishing them. Thus they function\nas angels of heaven and do not detract from its monotheistic government of the world. With such a high monotheism, it is not surprising that Mohism championed a concept called \"universal love\" (\"jian'ai\", 兼愛), which taught that heaven loves all people equally and that each person should similarly love all human beings without distinguishing between his own relatives and those of others. In Mozi's \"Will of Heaven\" (天志), he writes:\n\nMozi criticized the Confucians of his own time for not following the teachings of Confucius. By the time of the later Han Dynasty, however, under the influence of Xunzi, the Chinese concept of heaven and Confucianism itself had become mostly naturalistic, though some Confucians argued that heaven was where ancestors reside. Worship of heaven in China continued with the erection of shrines, the last and greatest being the Temple of Heaven in Beijing, and the offering of prayers. The ruler of China in every Chinese dynasty would perform annual sacrificial rituals to heaven, usually by slaughtering two healthy bulls as a sacrifice.\n\nIn Buddhism there are several heavens, all of which are still part of \"samsara\" (illusionary reality). Those who accumulate good karma may be reborn in one of them. However, their stay in heaven is not eternal—eventually they will use up their good karma and will undergo rebirth into another realm, as a human, animal or other being. Because heaven is temporary and part of \"samsara\", Buddhists focus more on escaping the cycle of rebirth and reaching enlightenment (\"nirvana\"). Nirvana is not a heaven but a mental state.\n\nAccording to Buddhist cosmology the universe is impermanent and beings transmigrate through a number of existential \"planes\" in which this human world is only one \"realm\" or \"path\". These are traditionally envisioned as a vertical continuum with the heavens existing above the human realm, and the realms of the animals, hungry ghosts and hell beings existing beneath it. According to Jan Chozen Bays in her book, \"Jizo: Guardian of Children, Travelers, and Other Voyagers\", the realm of the \"asura\" is a later refinement of the heavenly realm and was inserted between the human realm and the heavens. One important Buddhist heaven is the \"Trāyastriṃśa\", which resembles Olympus of Greek mythology.\n\nIn the Mahayana world view, there are also pure lands which lie outside this continuum and are created by the Buddhas upon attaining enlightenment. Rebirth in the pure land of Amitabha is seen as an assurance of Buddhahood, for once reborn there, beings do not fall back into cyclical existence unless they choose to do so to save other beings, the goal of Buddhism being the obtainment of enlightenment and freeing oneself and others from the birth–death cycle.\n\nThe Tibetan word \"Bardo\" means literally \"intermediate state\". In Sanskrit the concept has the name \"antarabhāva\".\n\nBrahmāloka\n\nHere the denizens are Brahmās, and the ruler is Mahābrahmā\n\nAfter developing the four Brahmavihāras, King Makhādeva rebirths here after death. The monk Tissa and Brāhmana Jānussoni were also reborn here.\n\nFor a monk, the next best thing to Nirvana is to be reborn in this Brahmāloka.\n\nThe lifespan of a Brahmās is not stated but is not eternal.\n\nParinirmita-vaśavartin or Paranimmita-vasavatti\n\nThe heaven of devas \"with power over (others') creations\". These devas do not create pleasing forms that they desire for themselves, but their desires are fulfilled by the acts of other devas who wish for their favor. The ruler of this world is called Vaśavartin (Pāli: Vasavatti), who has longer life, greater beauty, more power and happiness and more delightful sense-objects than the other devas of his world. This world is also the home of the devaputra (being of divine race) called Māra, who endeavors to keep all beings of the Kāmadhātu in the grip of sensual pleasures. Māra is also sometimes called Vaśavartin, but in general these two dwellers in this world are kept distinct. The beings of this world are tall and live for 9,216,000,000 years (Sarvāstivāda tradition). \n\nNimmānarati\n\nThe world of devas \"delighting in their creations\". The devas of this world are capable of making any appearance to please themselves. The lord of this world is called Sunirmita (Pāli Sunimmita); his wife is the rebirth of Visākhā, formerly the chief upāsikā (female lay devotee) of the Buddha. The beings of this world are tall and live for 2,304,000,000 years (Sarvāstivāda tradition). \n\nThe world of the \"joyful\" devas. This world is best known for being the world in which a Bodhisattva lives before being reborn in the world of humans. Until a few thousand years ago, the Bodhisattva of this world was Śvetaketu (Pāli: Setaketu), who was reborn as Siddhārtha, who would become the Buddha Śākyamuni; since then the Bodhisattva has been Nātha (or Nāthadeva) who will be reborn as Ajita and will become the Buddha Maitreya (Pāli Metteyya). While this Bodhisattva is the foremost of the dwellers in , the ruler of this world is another deva called (Pāli: Santusita). The beings of this world are tall and live for 576,000,000 years (Sarvāstivāda tradition). Anāthapindika, a Kosālan householder and benefactor to the Buddha's order was reborn here.\n\nYāma\n\nThe denizens here have a lifespan of 144,000,000 years.\n\nTāvatimsa\n\nThe ruler of this heaven is Indra or Shakra, and the realm is also called Trayatrimia.\n\nEach denizen addresses other denizens as the title \"mārisa\".\n\nThe governing hall of this heaven is called Sudhamma Hall.\n\nThis heaven has a garden Nandanavana with damsels, as its most magnificent sight.\n\nAjita the Licchavi army general was reborn here. Gopika the Sākyan girl was reborn as a male god in this realm.\n\nAny Buddhist reborn in this realm can outshine any of the previously dwelling denizens because of the extra merit acquired for following the Buddha's teachings.\n\nThe denizens here have a lifespan of 36,000,000 years.\n\nCātummahārājika\n\nThe heaven \"of the Four Great Kings\". Its rulers are the four Great Kings of the name, , , , and their leader . The devas who guide the Sun and Moon are also considered part of this world, as are the retinues of the four kings, composed of (dwarfs), Gandharva गन्धर्वs (fairies), Nāgas (snakes) and (goblins). The beings of this world are tall and live for 9,000,000 years (Sarvāstivāda tradition) or 90,000 years (Vibhajyavāda tradition).\n\nThere are 5 major types of heavens.\n\nAttaining heaven is not the final pursuit in Hinduism as heaven itself is ephemeral and related to physical body. Only being tied by the bhoot-tatvas, heaven cannot be perfect either and is just another name for pleasurable and mundane material life. According to Hindu cosmology, above the earthly plane, are other planes: (1) Bhuva Loka, (2) Swarga Loka, meaning Good Kingdom, is the general name for heaven in Hinduism, a heavenly paradise of pleasure, where most of the Hindu Devatas (Deva) reside along with the king of Devas, Indra, and beatified mortals. Some other planes are Mahar Loka, Jana Loka, Tapa Loka and Satya Loka. Since heavenly abodes are also tied to the cycle of birth and death, any dweller of heaven or hell will again be recycled to a different plane and in a different form per the karma and \"maya\" i.e. the illusion of Samsara. This cycle is broken only by self-realization by the Jivatma. This self-realization is Moksha (Turiya, Kaivalya).\n\nThe concept of moksha is unique to Hinduism and is unparalleled. Moksha stands for liberation from the cycle of birth and death and final communion with Brahman. With moksha, a liberated soul attains the stature and oneness with Brahman or Paramatma. Different schools such as Vedanta, Mimansa, Sankhya, Nyaya, Vaisheshika, and Yoga offer subtle differences in the concept of Brahman, obvious Universe, its genesis and regular destruction, Jivatma, Nature (Prakriti) and also the right way in attaining perfect bliss or moksha.\n\nIn the Vaishnava traditions the highest heaven is Vaikuntha, which exists above the six heavenly lokas and outside of the mahat-tattva or mundane world. It's where eternally liberated souls who have attained moksha reside in eternal sublime beauty with Lakshmi and Narayana (a manifestation of Vishnu).\n\nIn the Nasadiya Sukta, the heavens/sky Vyoman is mentioned as a place from which an overseeing entity surveys what has been created. However, the Nasadiya Sukta questions the omniscience of this overseer.\n\nThe shape of the Universe as described in Jainism is shown alongside. Unlike the current convention of using North direction as the top of map, this uses South as the top. The shape is similar to a part of human form standing upright.\n\nThe \"Deva Loka\" (heavens) are at the symbolic \"chest\", where all souls enjoying the positive karmic effects reside. The heavenly beings are referred to as \"devas\" (masculine form) and \"devis\" (feminine form). According to Jainism, there is not one heavenly abode, but several layers to reward appropriately the souls of varying degree of karmic merits. Similarly, beneath the \"waist\" are the \"Narka Loka\" (hell). Human, animal, insect, plant and microscopic life forms reside on the middle.\n\nThe pure souls (who reached Siddha status) reside at the very south end (top) of the Universe. They are referred to in Tamil literature as தென்புலத்தார் (Kural 43).\n\nAs per Sikh thought, heaven and hell are not places for living hereafter, they are part of spiritual topography of man and do not exist otherwise. They refer to good and evil stages of life respectively and can be lived now and here during our earthly existence. For example, Bhagat Kabir rejects the otherworldly heaven in Guru Granth Sahib and says that one can experience heaven on this Earth by doing company of holy people.\n\nThe Nahua people such as the Aztecs, Chichimecs and the Toltecs believed that the heavens were constructed and separated into 13 levels. Each level had from one to many Lords living in and ruling these heavens. Most important of these heavens was Omeyocan (Place of Two). The Thirteen Heavens were ruled by Ometeotl, the dual Lord, creator of the Dual-Genesis who, as male, takes the name Ometecuhtli (Two Lord), and as female is named Omecihuatl (Two Lady).\n\nIn the creation myths of Polynesian mythology are found various concepts of the heavens and the underworld. These differ from one island to another. What they share is the view of the universe as an egg or coconut that is divided between the world of humans (earth), the upper world of heavenly gods, and the underworld. Each of these is subdivided in a manner reminiscent of Dante's Divine Comedy, but the number of divisions and their names differs from one Polynesian culture to another.\n\nIn Māori mythology, the heavens are divided into a number of realms. Different tribes number the heaven differently, with as few as two and as many as fourteen levels. One of the more common versions divides heaven thus:\n\n\nThe Māori believe these heavens are supported by pillars. Other Polynesian peoples see them being supported by gods (as in Hawaii). In one Tahitian legend, heaven is supported by an octopus.\n\nThe Polynesian conception of the universe and its division is nicely illustrated by a famous drawing made by a Tuomotuan chief in 1869. Here, the nine heavens are further divided into left and right, and each stage is associated with a stage in the evolution of the earth that is portrayed below. The lowest division represents a period when the heavens hung low over the earth, which was inhabited by animals that were not known to the islanders. In the third division is shown the first murder, the first burials, and the first canoes, built by Rata. In the fourth division, the first coconut tree and other significant plants are born.\n\nIt is believed in Theosophy of Helena Blavatsky that each religion (including Theosophy) has its own individual heaven in various regions of the upper astral plane that fits the description of that heaven that is given in each religion, which a soul that has been good in their previous life on Earth will go to. The area of the upper astral plane of Earth in the upper atmosphere where the various heavens are located is called \"Summerland\" (Theosophists believe hell is located in the lower astral plane of Earth which extends downward from the surface of the earth down to its center). However, Theosophists believe that the soul is recalled back to Earth after an average of about 1400 years by the \"Lords of Karma\" to incarnate again. The final heaven that souls go to billions of years in the future after they finish their cycle of incarnations is called \"Devachan\".\n\nAnarchist Emma Goldman expressed this view when she wrote, \"Consciously or unconsciously, most theists see in gods and devils, heaven and hell; reward and punishment, a whip to lash the people into obedience, meekness and contentment.\"\n\nMany people consider George Orwell's use of Sugarcandy Mountain in his novel \"Animal Farm\" to be a literary expression of this view. In the book, the animals were told that after their miserable lives were over they would go to a place in which \"it was Sunday seven days a week, clover was in season all the year round, and lump sugar and linseed cake grew on the hedges\".\n\nSome have argued that a belief in a reward after death is poor motivation for moral behavior while alive. Sam Harris wrote, \"It is rather more noble to help people purely out of concern for their suffering than it is to help them because you think the Creator of the Universe wants you to do it, or will reward you for doing it, or will punish you for not doing it. The problem with this linkage between religion and morality is that it gives people bad reasons to help other human beings when good reasons are available.\"\n\nIn Inside the Neolithic Mind, Lewis-Williams and Pearce argue that a tiered structure of heaven, along with similarly structured circles of hell, is neurally perceived by members of many cultures around the world and through history. The reports are so similar across time and space that Lewis-Williams and Pearce argue for a neuroscientific explanation, accepting the percepts as real neural activations and subjective percepts during particular altered states of consciousness.\n\nMany people who come close to death and have near death experiences report meeting relatives or entering \"the Light\" in an otherworldly dimension, which share similarities with the religious concept of heaven. Even though there are also reports of distressing experiences and negative life-reviews, which share some similarities with the concept of hell, the positive experiences of meeting or entering \"the Light\" is reported as an immensely intense feeling state of love, peace and joy beyond human comprehension. Together with this intensely positive-feeling state, people who have near death experiences also report that consciousness or a heightened state of awareness seems as if it is at the heart of experiencing a taste of \"heaven\".\n\n\nWorks of fiction have included numerous different conceptions of heaven and hell. The two most famous descriptions of heaven are given in Dante Alighieri's \"Paradiso\" (of the \"Divine Comedy\") and John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "762131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762131", "title": "Hiromi Tsuru", "text": "Hiromi Tsuru\n\nShe was most known for voicing the character of Bulma (\"Dragon Ball\") for over 31 years. Also known for her roles as Ukyo Kuonji (\"Ranma ½\"), Dokin-chan (\"Soreike! Anpanman\"), Madoka Ayukawa (\"Kimagure Orange Road\"), Miyuki Kashima (\"Miyuki\"), Reiko Mikami (\"Ghost Sweeper Mikami\"), Meryl Strife (\"Trigun\") and Naomi Hunter (\"Metal Gear Solid\" series).\n\nTsuru was found unconscious in her car, was transported to a hospital, and was pronounced dead. Her agency later confirmed that she died on November 16 at the age of 57 from aortic dissection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3096440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096440", "title": "Hugh I, Count of Blois", "text": "Hugh I, Count of Blois\n\nHugh I, Count of Blois, also known as \"Hugh I of Châtillon\" (b. 1198c - d. 9 April 1248) was Count of Blois from 1230 to 1241, and Count of Saint Pol (as Hugh V) from 1226 to 1248.\n\nHugh was son of Gaucher III of Châtillon and Elisabeth (1180–1212), daughter of Hugo IV, Count of Saint-Pol. He married Agnes of Bar-le-Duc, daughter of Thibaut I of Bar-le-Duc and Hermesend of Bar-sur-Seine, in 1216. By 1225, Agnes was dead and Hugh married Marie.\n\nIn 1226, Hugh married Marie of Avesnes, daughter of Walter II of Avesnes and Margaret of Blois. They had 5 children:\n\nThrough his marriage Hugh became the first count of Blois from the house of Châtillon. It marked the end of the first dynasty of Blois that lasted over 400 years. After the death of Marie, Hugh married Mahaut, sister of Baldwin III, Count of Guînes.\n\nIn 1226 the Cisterian nunnery Pont-aux-Dames in Couilly was founded by Hugh. Later Hugh, with the assistance of Philip Mécringes, founded a Cistercian nunnery at Troissy called \"L'Amour-Dieu\" in 1232.\n\nHugh intended to follow the pious king Louis IX when he started on the Seventh Crusade, but he died in 1248.\n\n"}
{"id": "6270285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6270285", "title": "Hugo Cázares", "text": "Hugo Cázares\n\nHugo Fidel Cázares (born March 24, 1978 in Los Mochis, Sinaloa, Mexico) is a southpaw professional boxer in the Super flyweight (115 lb) division. He is the former WBA Super Flyweight champion, WBO and Lineal Light Flyweight champion. His record is 35-7-2 (23 KOs).\n\nOn April 30, 2005, Cazares won the WBO and vacant Lineal junior flyweight titles by defeating reigning WBO champion Nelson Dieppa. Cazares defended the title twice in 2005, against former champion Alex Sánchez and Kaichon Sor Vorapin. In 2006, he defended the title two additional times against Domingo Guillen and a rematch with Dieppa. In 2006, he successfully defended his title for a fifth time against Wilfrido Valdez.\n\nIn his next bout, Cazares lost the WBO junior flyweight title by split decision to Iván Calderón in Calderon's home territory of Puerto Rico. Cazares dropped Calderon in the 8th round. Cazares then defeated former champion Kermin Guardia before facing Calderon in a rematch. Cazares lost the rematch by technical decision in the 7th round after Calderon sustained a cut from an accidental clash of heads.\n\nCazares then moved up two divisions and scored three straight victories, including a win over former champion Roberto Vasquez. On September 30, 2009, Cazares faced WBA Super Flyweight champion Nobuo Nashiro. The bout ended in a 12-round draw. The two faced off in a rematch, this time Cazares defeated Nashiro by unanimous decision as he captured the WBA Super Flyweight title. Cázares successfully defended his title three times in 2010 with victories over Everardo Morales, Alberto Rossel, and Hiroyuki Hisataka.\n\nAfter Hugo's defeat to Tomonobu Shimizu, he won five fights in a row over, Adnan Garcia, Daniel Diaz, Rey Perez, Gabriel Altarejos and Julio Cesar Miranda.\n\nOn the 4th of April 2014, Hugo Cazares came to undefeated Carl Frampton's home city of Belfast in Northern Ireland and faced him in a final eliminator for Leo Santa Cruz's WBC Super-Bantamweight World Championship, in the Odyssey Arena in front of an estimated crowd of 9,000 fans.\n\nHugo entered to Maroon 5's song, \"One More Night\" and received a largely hostile reception from the pro-Frampton Belfast crowd. Unfortunately for Hugo Cazares, his night ended early as he lost to Carl Frampton by KO in the 2nd Round.\n\n"}
{"id": "50773668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50773668", "title": "Hussein Sheikh Abdirahman", "text": "Hussein Sheikh Abdirahman\n\nHussein Sheikh Abdirahman (1941 – c. May 16, 2016) was a Somali judge and politician. Abdirahman served as the Minister of Defence from 1989 to 1990 under President Siad Barre. He was the first civilian to be appointed Minister of Defence during the Barre regime, as all of Abdirahman's predecessors had been members of the military.\n\nAbdirahman was born in 1941 in Aware, a town in the Aware district of Somali Region, Ethiopia.\n\nAbdirahman spent much of his career working in Somalia's justice system before entering politics. At various times during his career, Abdirahman served as the chief of the magistrates court of Mogadishu, Attorney General, the commissioner of Sanaag region, and the chief of the appeals court of Mudug region.\n\nAbdirahman's judicial career was noticed by President Siad Barre, the leader of the country's military junta. In 1989, Barre appointed Abdirahman as Defence Minister, becoming the first civilian to head the defence ministry under Barre's rule. The appointment of Abdirahman sparked criticism against Barre, because Abdirahman had no military experience at the time. Abdirahman headed the Ministry of Defence from 1989 until 1990.\n\nIn 1991, Abdirahman immigrated from Somalia to the United States following the collapse of Barre's rule. He settled in Minnesota, where he became a community leader for the Somali American community in Minneapolis, as well as around the U.S.\n\nAbdirahman died at a hospital in the Minneapolis, Minnesota, after being hospitalized for several months. His family announced his death on Monday, May 16, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "39323145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39323145", "title": "Independence (schooner)", "text": "Independence (schooner)\n\n\" Independence \", a 35-ton schooner, was the first ship constructed in South Australian waters. The crew of the visiting American sealing brig , under the command of Capt. Isaac Pendleton, built her between April and August 1803 at what is now known as American River on Kangaroo Island. Daniel Wright, the ship's carpenter, was in charge of the construction of \"Independence\".\n\nOn 15 June 1805, \"Independence\" set sail from Sydney for the Antipodes Islands and was never seen again. The \"Sydney Gazette\" reported the loss on 16 March 1806.\n\nIn 1802, Capt. Isaac Pendleton of Stonington, Connecticut was commissioned by Fanning & Coles of New York to sail \"Union\" to the waters of New Holland in search of seal skins. \"Her commander (Captain Isaac Pendleton) was …left unrestricted, and at perfect liberty to act on all occasions as his judgment should direct, to make the most profitable voyage he could of it for his owners.\" In early 1803, whilst sealing in King George Sound near what is now Albany, Western Australia Pendleton met the French explorer, Nicolas Baudin, who recommended Kangaroo Island as a place where seals could be found in plenitude.\n\nArriving in what is now known as Eastern Cove on the north coast of Kangaroo Island, Pendleton took the decision to winter here and, presumably to increase the quantity of skins that could be taken to Sydney, construct a smaller vessel to work alongside \"Union\" in its sealing activities.\n\nAs was common practice at the time, \"Union\" carried the frame of a small schooner. This, possibly with the addition of some locally sourced timber, was used to build a smaller vessel. It appears that Baudin had lost a longboat whilst surveying the coastline of Kangaroo Island and his carpenters had found suitable timber to rebuild the longboat near what is now the town of American River. As the new vessel was to be smaller than \"Union\", it would have better access to shallow waters. Thus was born \"Independence\".\n\nNo plans of \"Independence\" are known to exist. In fact, it is possible the original \"Independence\" was built without plans.\n\nIn May 2013, the Rebuild Independence Group, a volunteer group based in American River, was formed to set about reconstructing the \"Independence\".\n"}
{"id": "11082846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11082846", "title": "John Barr (Canadian politician)", "text": "John Barr (Canadian politician)\n\nJohn Barr (March 4, 1843 – November 19, 1909) was an Ontario-based Canadian physician and political figure. He represented Dufferin in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1875 to 1879, from 1890 to 1894 and from 1898 to 1904 and in the House of Commons of Canada from 1904 to 1909 as a Conservative member. From 1890 to 1894, he was a member of the provincial Conservative Equal Rights Party.\n\nHe was born near Elizabethtown (later Brockville) in Canada West in 1843, the son of Irish immigrants. He graduated as an M.D. from Victoria University in 1866. Barr served as an associated coroner for Grey County. He was Deputy Master in the South Grey County Orange Lodge. Barr first set up practice in Horning's Mills but later moved to Shelburne. In 1880, he married Ermina E. Palmer. After being reelected in 1879, he was unseated after an appeal. He was later reelected several times to the provincial and federal assemblies. He died in office in 1909.\n\n"}
{"id": "12447438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12447438", "title": "Le Juif errant (opera)", "text": "Le Juif errant (opera)\n\nLe Juif errant (\"The Wandering Jew\") is a grand opera by Fromental Halévy, with a libretto by Eugène Scribe and Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges.\n\nThe opera is based extremely loosely on themes of the novel \"Le Juif errant\", by Eugène Sue. Whilst the novel is set in 19th century Paris and the Wandering Jew is incidental to the main story-line, the opera begins in Amsterdam in 1190 and the Jew Ahasuerus, (spelled Ashvérus in the opera), is a leading character.\n\n\"Le Juif errant\" was premiered at the Salle Le Peletier of the Paris Opera on 23 April 1852, and had 48 further performances over two seasons. The music was sufficiently popular to generate a \"Wandering Jew Mazurka\", a \"Wandering Jew Waltz\", a \"Wandering Jew Polka\" and in France just in the several months after the opera was premiered an even more considerable quantity of piano works, including several \"Grande fantaisie dramatique\" and similar titles, based on the opera.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "50560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50560", "title": "Lemures", "text": "Lemures\n\nThe lemures were shades or spirits of the restless or malignant dead in Roman mythology, and are probably cognate with an extended sense of larvae (from Latin \"larva\", \"mask\") as disturbing or frightening. \"Lemures\" is the more common literary term but even this is rare: it is used by the Augustan poets Horace and Ovid, the latter in his \"Fasti\", the six-book calendar poem on Roman holidays and religious customs.\n\nThe word \"lemures\" can be traced to the PIE stem *\"\", which also appears in the name of the Greek monster Lamia.\n\n\"Lemures\" may represent the wandering and vengeful spirits of those not afforded proper burial, funeral rites or affectionate cult by the living: they are not attested by tomb or votive inscriptions. Ovid interprets them as vagrant, unsatiated and potentially vengeful \"di manes\" or \"di parentes\", ancestral gods or spirits of the underworld. To him, the rites of their cult suggest an incomprehensibly archaic, quasi-magical and probably very ancient rural tradition.\n\n\"Lemures\" were formless and liminal, associated with darkness and its dread. In Republican and Imperial Rome, May 9, 11, and 13 were dedicated to their placation in the household practices of \"Lemuralia\" or \"Lemuria\". The head of household (\"paterfamilias\") would rise at midnight and cast black beans behind him with averted gaze; the \"Lemures\" were presumed to feast on them. Black was the appropriate colour for offerings to chthonic deities. William Warde Fowler interprets the gift of beans as an offer of life, and points out that they were a ritual pollution for priests of Jupiter. The \"lemures\" themselves were both fearsome and fearful: any malevolent shades dissatisfied with the offering of the \"paterfamilias\" could be startled into flight by the loud banging of bronze pots.\n\nThe Lemures inspired Linnaeus's Modern Latin backformation Lemur (denoting a type of primates). According to Linnaeus' own explanation, the name was selected because of the nocturnal activity and slow movements of the slender loris. Being familiar with the works of Virgil and Ovid and seeing an analogy that fit with his naming scheme, Linnaeus adapted the term \"lemur\" for these nocturnal primates. However, it has been commonly and falsely assumed that Linnaeus was referring to the ghost-like appearance, reflective eyes, and ghostly cries of lemurs. In Goethe's \"Faust\", a chorus of Lemurs who serve Mephistopheles dig Faustus' grave.\n\nIn the book by King James I of England, \"Daemonologie, In Forme of a Dialogie, Divided into three Bookes\" \"(Daemonologie)\", it is written, \"Nowe I returne to my purpose: As to the first kinde of these spirites, that were called by the auncients by diuers names, according as their actions were. For if they were spirites that haunted some houses, by appearing in diuers and horrible formes, and making greate dinne: they were called \"Lemures\" or \"Spectra\". If they appeared in likenesse of anie defunct to some friends of his, they wer called \"vmbræ mortuorum\": And so innumerable stiles they got, according to their actiones, as I haue said alreadie. As we see by experience, how manie stiles they haue given them in our language in the like maner: Of the appearing of these spirites, wee are certified by the Scriptures, [marginal note - \"Esay\". 13. \"Iere\". 50] where the Prophet ESAY 13. and 34. cap. threatening the destruction of \"Babell\" and \"Edom\": declares, that it shal not onlie be wracked, but shall become so greate a solitude, as it shall be the habitackle of Howlettes, and of ZIIM and IIM, which are the proper Hebrewe names for these Spirites. The cause whie they haunte solitarie places, it is by reason, that they may affraie and brangle the more the faith of suche as them alone hauntes such places. For our nature is such, as in companies wee are not so soone mooued to anie such kinde of feare, as being solitare, which the Deuill knowing well inough, hee will not therefore assaile vs but when we are weake: And besides that, GOD will not permit him so to dishonour the societies and companies of Christians, as in publicke times and places to walke visiblie amongst them. On the other parte, when he troubles certaine houses that are dwelt in, it is a sure token either of grosse ignorance, or of some grosse and slanderous sinnes amongst the inhabitantes thereof: which God by that extraordinarie rod punishes.\"\n"}
{"id": "10996959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10996959", "title": "Linda Agostini", "text": "Linda Agostini\n\nFlorence Linda Agostini (; 12 September 190527 August 1934), known posthumously as the \"Pyjama Girl\", was an English Australian homicide victim found on a stretch of road in Albury, New South Wales, Australia, in September 1934.\n\nLinda Agostini was born Florence Linda Platt in Forest Hill, a suburb of South East London, on 12 September 1905. As a teenager, Platt worked at a confectionery store in Surrey before travelling to New Zealand at the age of 19 after what was rumoured to be a broken romance. Platt remained in New Zealand until 1927 when she moved to Australia to live in Sydney. There she worked at a movie theatre in the city and lived in a boarding house on Darlinghurst Road in Kings Cross where accounts tell she entertained young, attractive men. Platt was a heavy drinker and a Jazz Age party-goer who had difficulty adjusting to stability. Her marriage to Italian-born Antonio Agostini (1903-1969) in a Sydney registry office during 1930 was the beginning of an unhappy marriage that would see the couple leave for Melbourne to remove Linda from the influence of her Sydney friends.\n\nAgostini disappeared from friends and family in late August 1934, around a week before the unidentified Pyjama Girl was found in Splitter's Creek, near Albury, on the New South Wales side of the border with Victoria.\n\nThe victim's body was discovered by a local man named Tom Griffith. Griffith had been leading a prize bull along the side of Howlong Road near Albury when he saw the body in a culvert running under the road and noticed a strong smell of kerosene. Slightly concealed and badly burnt, the body would not have been visible to anybody driving by.\n\nThe victim's head was wrapped in a towel. She had been shot and badly beaten. In a detail that came to define the case, she was wearing yellow silk pyjamas with a Chinese dragon motif – in Depression-era Australia, such clothing was luxurious, youthful and bohemian.\n\nIt soon became apparent that the body was of a petite woman in her twenties, but her identity could not be established. After the initial investigation failed to identify her, the body was taken to Sydney where it was put on public exhibition. She was preserved in a bath of formalin for this purpose at the Sydney University Medical School, until 1942, when her body was transferred to police headquarters where it remained until 1944.\n\nSeveral names were suggested for the identity of the dead woman, among them Anna Philomena Morgan and Linda Agostini. Both women were missing, both bore a likeness to the Pyjama Girl and both were of the right age. However, New South Wales police satisfied themselves that neither of the missing women was the Pyjama Girl and she remained unidentified.\n\nIn his 2004 book \"The Pyjama Girl Mystery: A True Story of Murder, Obsession and Lies\", historian Richard Evans suggests that Agostini was murdered around the same time as the Albury victim, and most likely in the confines of the couple's Melbourne townhouse, but that she was not the Pyjama Girl.\n\nIn 1944, ten years after the body had been discovered, the forensic evidence was re-examined and the dental analysis of the victim was matched to Linda Agostini.\n\nTony Agostini had recently returned to Sydney after being held in internment camps at Orange, Hay and Loveday from 1940 to 1944. The police commissioner, William MacKay, who had known him before the war when he worked as a waiter at the restaurant that MacKay frequented, interviewed him. Noticing that Agostini seemed to be in a nervous state, MacKay asked him what had come over him. Tony Agostini then confessed to killing his wife.\n\nIn his statement, Agostini admitted that he had accidentally shot and killed his wife when they were living in Melbourne. Worried that he might be accused of murder, he had driven the body over the state border to Albury and had dumped it in the culvert. He had poured petrol over the body and set fire to it, to destroy the evidence.\n\nThe identification came just as public confidence in the New South Wales Police Force began to wane at their failure to catch the decade's most prolific killer. The circumstances under which Antonio Agostini \"confessed\" to killing his wife in their Melbourne townhouse are still very dubious today.\n\nThe arrest of Agostini was a sensation, as it meant that the Pyjama Girl had been identified. He was charged with murder and was extradited to Melbourne, where he was tried for murder. He was acquitted but was found guilty of manslaughter instead, and was sentenced to six years' imprisonment. He was released in 1948 and deported to Italy, where he died in 1969.\n\nThe case might have been left there, but Richard Evans, a Melbourne historian, casts doubt on its conclusion. In his 2004 book \"The Pyjama Girl Mystery: A True Story of Murder, Obsession and Lies\", Evans points out discrepancies with the evidence, calling Antonio Agostini's conviction the result of \"police corruption and a miscarriage of justice\". The Pyjama Girl had brown eyes; Agostini's were blue. The victim had a different bust size to that of Linda Agostini and Agostini had a different shaped nose.\n\nEvans points out that 125 women were originally on the police's list of possible identities, but that these other leads remained \"uneliminated and untraced\".\n\nThe case was turned into a short film, \"The Pyjama Girl Murder Case\" in 1939 by director Rupert Kathner.\n\nA film entitled \"La ragazza dal pigiama giallo\" (\"The Pyjama Girl Case\"), directed by Italian Flavio Mogherini, was produced in 1977. A book written by Hugh Geddes, based on the film and bearing the same title, appeared in 1978.\n\nA short film by Canberra film maker Huck Tyrrell, entitled \"Roadside\", was produced in 1998 and inspired by the murder. In the film the victim returns as a hitch-hiker who tells her story to the unsuspecting driver and eventually leads him to her remains.\n\nIn 2013, the Hothouse Theatre in Albury/Wodonga commissioned a play entitled \"The Pyjama Girl\" from Canberra playwright Emma Gibson which it performed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198039", "title": "List of fatalities from aviation accidents", "text": "List of fatalities from aviation accidents\n\nMany notable human fatalities have resulted from aviation accidents and incidents.\n\nThose killed as part of a sporting, political or entertainment group who flew together when the accident took place are usually only listed under the group sections; however, some are also listed as individuals.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27702679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27702679", "title": "Lizzie van Zyl", "text": "Lizzie van Zyl\n\nLizzie van Zyl (22 April 1894 – 9 May 1901) was a South African child inmate of the Bloemfontein concentration camp who was starved and ultimately died from typhoid fever during the Second Boer War.\n\nThe British incarcerated her and her mother (Elizabeth Cecilia van Zyl) in a concentration camp following the refusal of her father, Hermanus Egbert Pieter van Zyl, a Boer Commando combatant, to surrender. Because of her father's refusal to surrender, Lizzie and her mother were labled as 'undesirables', and placed on the lowest food rations. Activist Emily Hobhouse used her death as an example of the hardships the Boer women and children faced in the British concentration camps during the war. She describes Lizzie as \"a frail, weak little child in desperate need of good care\", who was placed on the lowest rations and, after a month, was moved to the new hospital about away from the concentration camp, suffering from starvation. Initially the publishers of Hobhouse's reports refused to publish the photograph. \n\nAccording to Hobhouse, she was treated harshly in the hospital. Unable to speak English, she was labelled an \"idiot\" by an English-speaking doctor and her nurses, who were unable to understand her. One day she started calling for her mother; a lady went over to comfort her, but \"was brusquely interrupted by one of the nurses who told her not to interfere with the child as she was a nuisance.\" Lizzie died in 1901 at seven years of age.\n\nThe photo of the emaciated van Zyl reportedly was passed from British author Arthur Conan Doyle, who served as a volunteer doctor during the Boer War, to Joseph Chamberlain. Both Doyle and Chamberlain were proponents of the Boer Wars; Doyle wrote a short work \"The War in South Africa: Its Cause and Conduct\", that justified the war.\n\nThe photo was used as propaganda, author Hélène Opperman Lewis states, to convince the British public that Boer children were neglected by their parents. The image was released with the detail that it was taken when van Zyl and her mother entered the camp. Chamberlain was quoted in \"The Times\" on 5 March 1902, saying that Lizzie's mother was prosecuted for mistreatment. \n\nHobhouse investigated the case and was unable to find any evidence of the case or prosecution of Lizzie's mother. She located the photographer, a man named Mr. de Klerk (also a camp inmate at the time), who confirmed that the photograph was taken two months after Lizzie had arrived at the camp.\n"}
{"id": "55282123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55282123", "title": "Luke the Dog", "text": "Luke the Dog\n\nLuke the Dog (1913-1926) was a Staffordshire Bull Terrier that performed as a recurring character in American silent comedy shorts between 1914 and 1920. He was also the personal pet of actress Minta Durfee and her husband, the comedian and director Roscoe \"Fatty\" Arbuckle. \n\nAlthough Luke never attained the stardom of the various dogs that portrayed Rin Tin Tin, Pete the Pup, or Lassie, he accomplished stunts on camera that those later canine colleagues may have found difficult or impossible to duplicate. Luke for six years gained widespread popularity among movie audiences, appearing in one- and two-reelers for Keystone Studios, Comique Film Company, and Joseph M. Schenck Productions. The bull terrier shared screen time not only with Arbuckle and Durfee but also with other stars and top supporting players of the silent era, including Mabel Normand, Buster Keaton, Al St. John, Molly Malone, Joe Roberts, Betty Compson, and Edgar Kennedy.\n\nLuke the Dog was born in late 1913, reportedly at the home of film director Wilfred Lucas in Los Angeles, California. It was there where Minta Durfee and Roscoe Arbuckle were said to have acquired Luke as a six-week-old puppy. Several sources about the dog's early life state that Director Lucas gave the puppy to Minta in lieu of extra money or hazard pay she had earned for performing a dangerous stunt while filming. Some of those same sources also state that Minta and Roscoe even named their new pet after the tight-fisted director, dubbing him Luke as a familiar form of \"Lucas\" The cited timing of the dog's birth in the latter part of 1913 seems consistent with Luke's physical appearance in his film debut in the short \"Lover's Luck\", released in mid-September 1914 and likely completed in August that year. In the \"one-reeler\", which features both Roscoe and Minta, Luke can be seen in the background in several scenes, tethered next to his doghouse. Luke's size in the short shows a dog of his breed nearing maturity.\n\nWhile Luke was originally given to Minta Durfee, Roscoe Arbuckle quickly became the dominant figure in the dog's daily life, for it was \"Fatty\" who invested the most time training the animal to do tricks. Following his debut as a background pooch in \"Lover's Luck\", Luke worked in no fewer than a dozen more shorts released between January 1915 and December 1920. Luke next appears in \"Mabel and Fatty's Wash Day\". He has one very brief scene in that 1915 one-reeler, but at least the young dog is no longer relegated to the background. In the scene he quietly sits on a bench and receives a few affectionate pats from Mabel Normand as she goes into her backyard to hang laundry. In Luke's third film, \"Fatty's Faithful Fido\", released just two months after \"Mabel and Fatty's Wash Day\", he is finally allowed to display the success of his training and his remarkable athleticism.\n\nLuke performs a series of stunts in \"Fatty's Faithful Fido\" that are among the most impressive of his career. He gives chase to fellow cast member Al St. John, who in the one-reeler plays Fatty's rival for the attention of a young woman portrayed by Minta. After repeated confrontations with his competitor, Fatty sics Luke on him. St. John's character panics and flees, but he cannot get away from the dog no matter what he does. Luke during the chase climbs a tall ladder propped against a wall, missteps and plunges off a building's roof, recovers, crosses another ladder between rooftops, jumps from one roof to another, grabs the coat of Fatty's rival in his teeth and tears it off his body, and then grabs the desperate man's necktie and starts choking him. St. John finally manages to escape but only when Luke is distracted by a passing cat. Soon, though, the dog resumes tracking his two-legged quarry. Later in the day Luke finally finds St. John at a community dance and charges into the event after him. The film ends with the dog, St. John, and Fatty falling through a hole in the floor and landing together in a large laundry tub of water.\nLuke has his longest screen time in a single film in \"Fatty's Plucky Pup\", also released in 1915. He performs in almost every scene of the 26-minute two-reeler. In the short's first part, Luke proves to be an elusive terror for two dogcatchers trying to capture him with large nets; and in its second part he rescues Fatty's girlfriend Lizzie from a pair of crooks, who kidnap her with the help of the same two dogcatchers. The \"plucky pup\" tracks the crooks; turns the tables on the dogcatchers by becoming their pursuer; and finally leads Fatty to save Lizzie in the nick of time, which also leads a carload of bumbling Keystone Cops to arrest the evil foursome. One of the interesting visual effects used in \"Fatty's Plucky Pup\" relied on the use of a treadmill in combination with the carousel-like \"cyclorama\" often used by cameramen at Keystone Studios' facilities in Edendale, California. There are sequences in the short that show Luke in close-up and running at breakneck speed through the countryside. The dog in reality is running on a treadmill positioned between a stationary camera and the cyclorama's rotating platform that has background scenery painted on a huge central cylinder. The cyclorama, which can be seen in operation at Keystone in a surviving period film clip, creates an effective but cartoonish simulation that Luke is dashing across the landscape.\n\nFollowing the completion of \"Fatty and Mabel Adrift\", Arbuckle left Keystone Studios to make films independently. Luke, of course, followed Roscoe and continued to appear in such films as \"The Butcher Boy\" (1917), \"The Cook\" (1918), and \"The Hayseed\" (1919). In its review of \"The Butcher Boy\" in April 1917, the entertainment trade publication \"Variety\" complimented the film and observed, \"The cast fits the star [Arbuckle], and not the least important member is 'Luke,' the bull terrier. It is a wonder.\"\n\nLuke's reliability and experience as a performer earned him a top salary during his career of $150 a week, the equivalent of over $3,100 a week in the year 2017. His last two performances were in 1920, both uncredited: \"The Garage\" with Arbuckle and Fatty's comedic protégé Buster Keaton and \"The Scarecrow\" with only Keaton. In those final shorts, a stockier, more muscular Luke continues to display his considerable prowess as a man-chaser. Keaton's character in \"The Scarecrow\" runs from what he mistakenly thinks is a rabid dog, which he had seen \"frothing\" at the mouth. Actually, Luke had just eaten a cream pie and remnants of the cream remained around his snout. When Keaton dashes away, the \"mad\" dog relentlessly pursues him over brick walls, up ladders again, around the top of a building, over planks, through windows, down a garbage chute, and through haystacks.\n\nThe talented canine continued to spend most of his time with Roscoe until Arbuckle and Minta separated in 1921 and finally divorced in 1925. Minta gained custody of Luke as part of the couple's separation agreement and divorce settlement, although Roscoe did have visitation rights to see him. That arrangement may explain why the veteran stunt dog did not appear again on screen after his work with Keaton in \"The Scarecrow\" in 1920.\n\nA scandal that rocked Arbuckle's personal and professional life in 1921 may have also affected Luke's career and be another reason for his apparent retirement from performing. The public closely identified Luke with Fatty, whose own acting career tragically ended as a result of the noted scandal. Arbuckle's films were effectively banned from theaters for a while, and some things even associated with the former star were shunned by moviegoers and the media as well. Whatever the reasons for Luke's absence from films after 1920, available records suggest that he lived the remaining years of his life with Minta. Luke died in 1926 in Los Angeles at age 13, in keeping with the average life expectancy of his breed. It is unknown where his remains were interred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315920", "title": "Mac Gargan", "text": "Mac Gargan\n\nMacDonald \"Mac\" Gargan is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. During his career as a villain of Spider-Man's, the character originally appeared as the most well-known incarnation of Scorpion, was later bonded with the symbiote to become the third incarnation of Venom, and eventually takes a serum to control the symbiote to pose as the third incarnation of Spider-Man during the \"Dark Reign\" storyline.\n\nThe character has been depicted in numerous \"Spider-Man\" cartoons and video games, and made his cinematic debut in 2017's \"\", portrayed by actor Michael Mando.\n\nThe character was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko. Gargan first appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #19 (December 1964) and first appeared as the \"Scorpion\" in \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #20 (January 1965). Years later, he became the third \"Venom\" in \"Marvel Knights: Spider-Man\" #10 (2005) and the third \"Spider-Man\" in \"Dark Avengers\" #1 (2009).\n\nHe appeared as a regular character in the \"Dark Avengers\" series from issue #1 (March 2009) through issue #16 (June 2010). Mac Gargan appeared in the character's first own four-issue miniseries, \"Dark Reign: Sinister Spider-Man\". The comic was released in June 2009 and was written by Brian Reed, with art by Chris Bachalo.\n\nWriter Dan Slott revealed that Mac Gargan would return as the original Scorpion, in an upcoming arc of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\".\n\nMac Gargan was a private investigator initially hired by J. Jonah Jameson to find out how Peter Parker is able to obtain incredible pictures of Spider-Man. Gargan's efforts set off Peter's spider-sense and the teen easily evades the detective. Jameson then decides to hire Gargan as the subject of a barely-tested process that would endow him with the useful characteristics of a particular animal with the help of Dr. Farley Stillwell. Dr. Stillwell also outfits him with a club-like mechanical tail. In this case, a scorpion is the base for the purposes of creating a powerful agent capable of defeating Spider-Man as the scorpion is a natural predator of the spider. The Scorpion proves to be more than a match for Spider-Man, defeating him twice, but the mutagenic treatment seriously affects Gargan's mind, driving him insane as the predatory instincts of the scorpion take over. He promptly turns on his benefactor but Spider-Man intervenes, and finally defeats the Scorpion in their third battle. The Scorpion becomes a professional criminal and returns to indulge in a vendetta against Spider-Man and Jameson, only to be defeated again.\n\nHe is later hired by a spy ring to follow S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Sharon Carter, but is defeated by Captain America. Scorpion is acquired by Mr. Kline, who creates an android duplicate of him. The real Scorpion and Mr. Hyde launch a campaign of terror against S.H.I.E.L.D. agents, but are defeated by Captain America and the Falcon. After being released from prison for good behavior, the Scorpion hunts down Spider-Man and tries drowning him in a cement vat, hoping to use the boost to his reputation to become an underworld boss. Scorpion learns that Spider-Man survived the encounter, and the Jackal gives him Spider-Man's location. The Scorpion arrives at a hospital room with Peter Parker and his Aunt May. Not recognizing Spider-Man in his civilian identity, he threatens May and demands to know where Spider-Man is. After she faints, Scorpion rampages through the hospital. A furious Spider-Man beats the Scorpion and makes him apologize to May.\n\nThe Scorpion fights Ms. Marvel after a botched revenge attempt against Jameson; the Scorpion becomes more psychotic than usual after this, resulting in his being dumped in acid. In the sewers, his sanity deteriorating, Scorpion comes to believe that his costume cannot be taken off. After a quick encounter, Spider-Man proves that his belief of being a monster is only in his mind. Gargan forms an extortion racket to sabotage the \"Daily Bugle\", but is thwarted by Spider-Man and Captain America. He is freed from prison by agents of Egghead, who wants him to join the third Masters of Evil alongside Whirlwind and Moonstone. The team fight the Avengers but are defeated. Scorpion kidnaps Jameson's bride Marla Madison on their wedding day but she is rescued by Spider-Man. Jonah publicly confesses to his role in creating the Scorpion when the Hobgoblin tries to use that secret to blackmail him. Despite his encounters with other foes, Scorpion has always had a special hatred for Spider-Man and Jameson, which extends to when he attempts to become a mercenary for Justin Hammer, who has the Scorpion's battlesuit modified. He ruins his prospects on his first mission, to capture a war hero, when he cannot resist creating a hostage situation simply to bring Jameson to him for revenge. In reaction, Hammer sends Blacklash and Rhino to subdue Gargan and confiscate the tail enhancement equipment for abrogating his contract.\n\nDuring the \"Acts of Vengeance\", he tries to enter Canada to avoid the Super Power Registration Act. The Tinkerer meets him at the airport and provides him with a modified scorpion tail for his costume. He, Asp, Nekra, and Owl (who are under the control of Llan the Sorcerer) are repelled by Alpha Flight and Gamma Flight. He is then hired by the Chameleon to kill a depowered Spider-Man. He is defeated by the Black Cat. The Scorpion's constant defeats at the hands of Spider-Man drive him to depression. He wanders the sewers, his mind becoming clearer than it had been since his transformation, and decides to quit being the Scorpion. He encounters a depressed and crisis-ridden Spider-Man. Ignoring Gargan's plea that he is a changed man, Spider-Man beats him savagely. In his next appearance, Gargan is back to being psychopathic. He battles and is defeated by Spider-Man's clone Ben Reilly.\n\nScorpion temporarily works for Roxxon and helps them in their phony \"rehabilitation therapy\". Roxxon updates the Scorpion's powers and costume and promises he will get back at his enemies. Spider-Man convinces Scorpion that he is only being used. Scorpion then turns on Roxxon and is then defeated by Spider-Man. Gargan reappears in the aftermath of the Secret War that was organized by Nick Fury against Latveria. He is among the supervillains who were supplied with enhanced technology by Latverian dictator Lucia von Bardas and sent to attack the heroes involved in Fury's Secret War. The villains' technologies are hijacked by von Bardas, supplying her with power, potentially at the cost of the villains' lives, but the assembled heroes defeat von Bardas and apprehend Scorpion and the others.\n\nLater on through circumstances yet to be revealed, Norman Osborn reveals Spider-Man's true identity to Gargan and gives him orders to kidnap Peter's Aunt May should Osborn ever be captured and imprisoned. When Spider-Man defeats Osborn, he is imprisoned and Gargan carries out Osborn's orders in kidnapping Aunt May. Gargan eventually summons Peter and tells him the only way he can see his aunt again is to break Norman out of jail. Shortly thereafter, the Venom symbiote approaches Gargan, offering him new abilities, and Gargan becomes bonded with the creature. This would later give him an extra edge as part of Norman Osborn's Sinister Twelve. Even with these additional powers he is still swiftly defeated by Spider-Man, as the Avengers deal with the rest of the Twelve. Though incarcerated, Gargan is unfazed, as with his new powers come the respect of becoming an \"A-list\" villain at last.\n\nAlongside Spider-Man and other villains and heroes, Venom is kidnapped by other-dimensional forces. He succeeds in killing Spider-Man, who is really the original Space Phantom in disguise. For his crimes, the Inhumans matriarch Medusa orders his execution and almost carries it out herself. Later, he tries to kill the other participants for the \"Beyonder's\" wish fulfillment prize for the winner, but fails and is returned to Earth alongside the rest of the group.\n\nGargan later becomes a member of a sub-group of the Thunderbolts, which has been drafted by the Avengers to hunt down the members of the fugitive Secret Avengers and is currently run by the Commission for Superhuman Activities. It is then revealed that he has been outfitted with electrical implants by the government to keep the Venom symbiote in check. As a Thunderbolt, he is seen as a hero by the general public and has his own action figures. Gargan displays his new raw power as Venom in a battle with Jack Flag, after pummeling Flag for a bit, the hero manages to stab Gargan, who is protected by the symbiote. Gargan becomes enraged and ferociously man-handles Flag, and is about to eat him when his electrical implants kick in and temporarily subdue him, allowing Flag to live. Gargan expresses fear of the control the symbiote possesses over him, yet he has become addicted to the raw unearthly power it brings to him and cannot even begin to imagine life without it, similar to a drug addict. An attack from Steel Spider and Sepulchre makes him lose control again, briefly becoming a huge monster once more, while Moonstone is incapacitated and thus cannot coordinate control of his electrical implants. Afterwards he returns to a normal form with no ill effects. He also bites off and devours Steel Spider's arm during a fight.\n\nGargan is later ordered by Norman Osborn to hunt down Namor. After shooting him with a Thunderbolts-supplied weapon, Gargan disables Namor by ripping off his feet-wings. The Sub-Mariner manages to render Gargan unconscious and then rips out the symbiote's tongue, although the symbiote easily makes a new one. Gargan begins to hallucinate that the symbiote is speaking to him, telling him to \"feed (it)\". He later attacks and devours a guard and declares that \"the only way out of Thunderbolts Mountain is when I decide to let you die\". It is later revealed that the psychic criminal Bluestreak is controlling Gargan's actions, although it is uncertain whether the symbiote was actually speaking to him or not. Venom goes up against the Swordsman, who stabs Gargan through the chest, using his powers to force the symbiote away from his sword. Gargan is wounded, but lives. After healing, he retains his monstrous form, rarely returning to his usual size.\n\nGargan reappears during the \"New Ways to Die\" story arc of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", no longer possessing the knowledge of Spider-Man's secret identity. Gargan and the Thunderbolts are called back to New York to capture Spider-Man. While on a search for the wall-crawler, Gargan's symbiote senses a former host nearby. Gargan suspects that it is Spider-Man but instead finds Eddie Brock at the F.E.A.S.T center (a soup kitchen). The Venom symbiote attempts to leave Gargan to re-bond with Brock, much to Gargan's (and Brock's) dismay. Upon making contact with Brock, his skin is shown to be caustic to his former symbiote, and as a white substance seeps out of his pores covering his body, Brock becomes Anti-Venom and battles Gargan. With some help from Spider-Man, Anti-Venom subdues Venom and nearly destroys the symbiote. Norman Osborn uses a sample of Anti-Venom's DNA from Mac Gargan and creates a poisonous counter to its healing powers by combining the sample with the immune system of Freak. Mac Gargan is injected with the \"cure\" and is given a new Scorpion battlesuit, which contains the venom, until the symbiote can recover. Anti-Venom tracks down Gargan at Oscorp. After a grueling battle \"Ven-orpion\" injects the toxin into Anti-Venom and seemly kills the suit. He then attempts to kill Brock but the symbiote tries holding him back, still feeling love for its former host. The symbiote gains its strength and breaks though the Scorpion suit. Gargan gives up but promises that he will get past this problem and will someday finish Brock.\n\nGargan was seen being thrown from Thunderbolt Mountain by Captain Marvel. Gargan was later seen with the other Thunderbolts in Washington. The Skrulls attempt to trick him into killing normal humans in order to find out which of them are Skrulls. Osborn attempted to prevent the symbiote from killing anyone by threatening to kill Mac Gargan and promising to help satisfy his \"urges\" later, only for Gargan to reveal that the threat he appeared to pose to civilians was a ruse in order to draw out a disguised Skrull. Venom played a huge part in fighting the Skrulls. He was seen slashing and eating the Skrulls all at once. He soon joins the Thunderbolts and the remaining heroes for the final battle against the Skrulls. During the battle, he was a force to be reckoned with.\n\nVenom, along with most of the Thunderbolts team, attempts to kill partner Songbird on the orders of Osborn. Facing Venom, Songbird was defeated and almost eaten by Venom, but escaped with help from the Swordsman.\n\nNorman Osborn forms his Dark Avengers, providing new identities to some of his former Thunderbolts. After feeding a Skrull to a hungry Venom that has become more bestial than human, Osborn gives him a medication that resets the symbiote to the size it was when it possessed Spider-Man originally. Gargan can transform into his larger Venom form at will.\n\nNorman introduces Gargan and the symbiote as the Amazing Spider-Man in his new Avengers. During their first mission against Morgana le Fay, Morgana transforms \"Venom-Spidey\" into a giant, demonic monster who then tries to eat Ares. Venom later coughs up Ares; however, Morgana's magic continues to affect Venom, causing him to lose and gain control of himself randomly. After Morgana is defeated in the past by Iron Patriot and Doctor Doom, Mac returned to his \"Spider-Man\" form with only a slight headache. Hawkeye promised to kill Mac one day for trying to eat him while he was under Morgana's control. Once they arrive home, he is seen arguing with Hawkeye.\n\nLater, attempting to find out Norman Osborn's plans for his son Harry, the real Spider-Man, with the aid of the Invisible Woman, manages to capture Gargan by using a sonic generator and takes his place to infiltrate the Dark Avengers. Gargan is thrown into the Negative Zone, but is later seen back with the Dark Avengers.\n\nAgainst Osborn's wishes, Gargan is seen heading out into the city to \"fight crime\" solo. At one point, he is seen defeating a bank robber called General Wolfram. After making out with two girls at once and getting cheered by a large crowd, he takes the robber to an abandoned rooftop and consumes his arm. He then takes the money Wolfram stole and swings away. Gargan is then seen at a strip club with the money and discovers his new favorite stripper. After getting reprimanded by Norman Osborn for eating Wolfram's arm, Gargan kills the stripper and places her dead body in J. Jonah Jameson's bed while he is gone in an attempt to frame him for her murder. At the same time, Redeemer visits the injured General Wolfram and recruits him alongside other villains who have had limbs bitten off by Gargan (namely Dementoid, Doctor Everything, Eleven, and Hippo) in a plan to take down \"Spider-Man\" (who is believed to be the root of their problem). In another attempt to antagonize Jameson, Gargan instigates a turf war between two rival street gangs, hoping to wear Jameson down through stress and exhaustion from continuously putting out stories to cover the crime wave. At the same time, the Redeemer arms his group with cybernetic limbs to defeat Spider-Man. J. Jonah Jameson goes to Osborn for help and is given Spider-Man to help solve the city's gang problem.\n\nGargan continues to instigate the gang war and aggravate Jameson in person. A bomb threat is placed by Redeemer to lure Spider-Man into an intervention, though Gargan instead devours Hippo and Eleven, badly injures Dementoid, and beats Doctor Everything into submission before turning him over to the police. He then eats Redeemer's limbs. With Redeemer, Wolfram, and Dementoid the only ones still remaining of the group (albeit hospitalized), Redeemer sends photos of Gargan's actions to Jameson in an attempt to expose him as a cannibalistic psychopath to the world. Jameson first goes to Osborn, who decides to cut Gargan loose by sending Bullseye and Daken (in their old costumes) to kill him. At the Big Apple Festival, the two attack him, with Dementoid, General Wolfram, and both gangs involved in the turf war entering the fray to try to kill Spider-Man. Gargan ends up defeating all of them, and J. Jonah Jameson shoots a gun in the air to stop the fight. As a result, everyone credits Jameson and Spider-Man with successfully working together to stop criminals and save the festival. Gargan later returns to Avengers Tower, where he is visited by Norman Osborn. Osborn informs him that Bullseye and Daken will get over being hurt, but warns Gargan that if he goes out of control again, he will suit up as the Iron Patriot and take care of him personally.\n\nDuring the opening chapter of \"Utopia\", the Dark Avengers are sent into San Francisco to quell the mutant riots and battle any X-Men they can find. Tension is shown to exist between the Avengers and Osborn's own Dark X-Men. When Namor and Emma Frost are revealed to be double agents on Cyclops' side and defect with Cloak and Dagger, an irate Osborn gathers the Dark Avengers and the remaining Dark X-Men, Gargan included, ordering them to bring him Namor's head and Emma Frost's heart and to make sure that Cyclops sees them do it. The Dark Avengers and Dark X-Men attack Utopia and battle the X-Men, with Venom facing off against Colossus. Due to the sheer number of X-Men, Osborn is forced to retreat when informed that the only way to win would be to kill all the mutants on the island, an option which is not politically viable.\n\nGargan later begins to show signs that his medications are making him emotionally unstable. On a mission with the Dark Avengers, Osborn takes Gargan off the case when he notices Gargan's outbursts. Molecule Man turns Gargan and his symbiote into an inert pile of goo. He is later restored by the Sentry.\n\nDuring the \"Siege\" storyline, Mac Gargan is with the Dark Avengers when Norman Osborn makes plans to invade Asgard. Mac Gargan and the rest of the Avengers protest. For fighting alongside the Initiative, Osborn promises to give the team their freedom from servitude. As a result, Gargan is among the mass of soldiers to launch an attack on Asgard following Loki's setup. He and the rest of the Avengers manage to overwhelm Thor. While fighting Ms. Marvel and Spider-Man after they arrive, Gargan is forcefully removed from the Venom symbiote, which takes over Ms. Marvel until Spider-Man defeats it. He, along with the other Dark Avengers, are arrested after Norman Osborn falls from power.\n\nDuring the \"\" storyline, Mac Gargan is seen at the Raft superprison, having been separated from the Venom symbiote: the symbiote's removal was causing medical problems due to the side effects from his original genetic mutation. Alistair Smythe breaks him out of the Raft. Gargan was then fitted with a new Scorpion suit by Smythe, which included a life-support system to stabilize Gargan's condition. Smythe convinced Gargan to join him in his plan for revenge on J. Jonah Jameson. Scorpion joins Alistair Smythe, a new villain named Fly-Girl, and some unnamed cyborg minions (each wanting revenge on Jameson) in attacking the launch site of John Jameson's latest space mission, where they sabotage the launch and hold John Jameson for ransom.\n\nDuring the \"Ends of the Earth\" storyline, Scorpion is seen guarding one of Doctor Octopus' facilities. Titanium Man enters it and ends up fighting Scorpion. Titanium Man is defeated by Scorpion despite his best efforts.\n\nDuring the \"Dying Wish\" storyline, Scorpion hears the call-to-arms from Peter Parker (while trapped in Doctor Octopus' dying body) to save him and apprehend Doctor Octopus (occupying Spider-Man's body) in order to save his loved ones from Doctor Octopus' final sinister scheme. Scorpion and Hydro-Man accompany Peter Parker in Doctor Octopus' body to Stark Industries to look for Tony Stark only to end up in a trap set by Doctor Octopus in Spider-Man's body. When finding a safe area containing Spider-Man's friends and relatives, Scorpion plans to have his final revenge on J. Jonah Jameson. Upon accessing the memories of Spider-Man loving Aunt May - and the times Scorpion threatened her - Doctor Octopus in Spider-Man's body retaliates by punching Scorpion so hard in the jaw (the only unprotected part of his body) that it breaks off from his head.\n\nScorpion was later seen in the Raft's infirmary with Boomerang and Vulture. Scorpion now sported a metal apparatus that replaced his missing jaw. Alistair Smythe's mini-Spider-Slayers heal and enhance them, and Smythe gives them an offer to kill Spider-Man. While Boomerang fights Spider-Man, Scorpion is convinced by Smythe to go after Mayor Jameson again.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, Scorpion is among the villains at Kingpin's viewing party of the incursion between Earth-616 and Earth-1610.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" event, Scorpion was secretly hired by Tiberius Stone of Alchemax to further test Alchemax's Spider-Slayers during Tiberius' trip to a foreign country to sell them. During Scorpion's test of Alchemax's Spider-Slayers, Scorpion encountered Spider-Man 2099. When Scorpion thought that Spider-Man 2099 was his Spider-Man in a different costume, he attacks him with the aid of the Spider-Slayers. Spider-Man 2099 was able to use his holographic assistant to project a hologram of Spider-Man over Scorpion causing the Spider-Slayers to attack Scorpion until he turned them off twice.\n\nScorpion later doubles working for Black Cat's gang when he and a man named Lee Price partake in a black market sale that also involved Tombstone's gang. When at Black Cat's hideout, Scorpion accuses Lee Price of botching up the black market sale which Lee Price denied leading Black Cat to demand an explanation after hearing about some information from her spies at the New York City Police Department telling her what they know. After Lee Price leaves following his explanation, Scorpion becomes suspicious towards Lee. While confiding his suspicions, Mac Gargan dons a new version of the Scorpion armor. He then meets Price at the apartment of a Daily Bugle reporter, who had evidence against Black Cat. When Lee reminds him that they should scare the reporter, Scorpion attacks him causing Lee to transform into Venom and the two begin to fight. During the fight, Scorpion is nearly killed until Spider-Man intervenes, who mistook Venom for Flash Thompson.\n\nBefore he assumed the identity of the Scorpion, Mac Gargan was a skilled, if somewhat greedy and unscrupulous, private investigator, who admitted that he would go through anything \"just so long as the pay is good!\" His greed still motivated him as a supervillain, albeit in a twisted way: while awaiting an official \"offer\" from the Thunderbolts, Gargan squeezed his agent for financial details on a proposed book, TV and movie deal (\"How many back points? And residuals? Fantastic. That foreign \"and \"domestic?\"), demanded certain talent for the writing (including the screenwriting brother of the comic's writer) and, finally, Gargan killed six \"capekiller\" S.H.I.E.L.D. agents sent to bring him in - because while he intended to cooperate, his agent had told him that the rights to his life story would be \"worth a little more\" if Gargan \"goosed up the body count\" before joining the Thunderbolts.\n\nHe is emotionally disturbed as a result of the procedure in which he acquired his powers, and retains little of his former rationality. He is typically easily outsmarted by Spider-Man and is not very good at cooperating with other supervillains or following instructions as Justin Hammer learned. His most prominent weakness is his explosive temper and irrational hatred toward J. Jonah Jameson, to the point where he has been known to ignore the orders of whomever he is working for, in order to attack the \"Daily Bugle's\" publisher. None of this has changed with his bonding to the Venom symbiote, or with his new career serving under Norman Osborn with the Thunderbolts or the Dark Avengers: in fact, the symbiote seems to have only made him even more irrational, and his new career as a \"hero\" has done nothing to curtail his lingering hatred of Jameson. He nearly blew his cover as Spider-Man when he started a drug war and photographs of him engaging in cannibalism wound up in J. Jonah Jameson's hands, putting his employer Norman Osborn's plans and the \"heroic\" status of his entire Dark Avengers team in jeopardy, just to pursue vengeance against Jameson (now the Mayor of New York) yet again. His ill-conceived and poorly thought-out plan failed, and he was forced to publicly make peace with Jameson in his Spider-Man guise, greatly embarrassing him, though he secretly fantasized about killing Jameson during the whole time while they were shaking hands.\n\nThe years of being outsmarted and beaten, despite his physical superiority over Spider-Man, complement the similar hatred possessed by the symbiote, and has allowed it to almost completely control Gargan. Unlike the other Venoms, Mac very seldom refers to himself as \"we\" instead of \"I\". Gargan has even engaged in cannibalism as Venom, severing and devouring the arm of the still-living Steel Spider. After getting \"the taste of flesh\", he is seen displaying even more signs of cannibalism such as eating Skrulls, consuming the bones of Swarm, devouring Eleven and the limbs of criminals, and trying to eat Ares. When the symbiote is dormant in his body he has expressed nausea and fear of the organism. Unlike Eddie Brock, any inhibitions Gargan had about harming innocent bystanders has been eliminated with his bonding to the symbiote, most likely because he had such little regard for others to begin with. Gargan's previous identity has not been completely degraded. His symbiote once sprouted a scorpion-like tail, although he has not had it since. Also, when he learned there was a new hero calling herself the Scorpion, Gargan-Venom attacked her to protect his trademark while it still lasted. Also, for a brief time, Gargan wore a new Scorpion suit while the symbiote regenerated after Anti-Venom's attack, although initially he was hesitant about wearing it alongside the symbiote.\n\nMac Gargan, as the Scorpion, was given superhuman powers through chemical and radiological treatments, include splicing his genetics with a scorpion's DNA, which produced mutagenic effects. As the result, he has arachnid-like powers similar to Spider-Man's such as superhuman strength, speed, agility, reflexes, stamina, and durability, and also can scale walls (he also punches holes in walls as a way to climb). He also has an exceptionally strong grip, reminiscent of a real scorpion's pincers. He wears a full-body battlesuit composed of two layers of light steel mesh separated by a thin layer of insulated rubber. In addition to his superhuman physique, he was traditionally armed with a cybernetically-controlled, seven-foot mechanical tail, with a tool steel articulated framework which can whip at 90 miles per hour. The tail has in the past been equipped with projectile weapons, usually an electric generator, although it has also been equipped with a spike at its tip, which can squirt an acidic spray, and a low-density plasma energy projector. The Scorpion can use his tail as an extra leg, or he can coil it behind him to spring himself a distance of at least 30 feet. The Scorpion is substantially stronger and more durable than Spider-Man, though is a much less skilled hand-to-hand combatant.\n\nWith the Venom symbiote, Mac Gargan retains his superhuman abilities, some of which have increased substantially beyond the original levels. The costume can even emulate the tail of Gargan's Scorpion costume. It can also be used as a fifth limb. As Venom, Gargan has gained the ability to shoot webbing and climb walls like Spider-Man, and can disguise himself as other people or blend in with his background. He is undetectable by Spider-Man's \"spider-sense\". His skill as a hand-to-hand combatant has increased due to the influence of the alien symbiote, which has superior instincts and fighting experience. The costume can also heal grave injuries suffered by the host with incredible speed. Mac (as Venom) has claws on his fingers which can be used as weapons to slash his foes. He can also create tendrils to incapacitate his enemies.\n\nWhen injured or enraged, Venom now has the ability to increase its mass and physical strength in order to meet whatever threat it is facing with equal force, an ability inconsistently hinted in the past, such as when Venom battled the Juggernaut. During these times it is not clear that Gargan has any control over the symbiote, for had it not been for the technology restraining Venom, he would have eaten Jack Flag. Also, during a battle with the Steel Spider, Gargan attacks innocent bystanders.\n\nA special \"medication\" provided by Norman Osborn allowed Venom to assume a smaller, more human-looking form similar to when Spider-Man had control of the symbiote. From this form, he is able to switch back to his larger, more feral form whenever he pleases. As Spider-Man, Mac seems to be even more agile than when he was as Venom. He also still has all of Venom's powers, minus the claws, tongue, and teeth, which he can regrow at will. His \"medication\" has also been shown to decrease his will to fight, making him more sympathetic.\n\nAfter Smythe breaks him out of the Raft, Gargan is fitted with a new Scorpion suit. The suit is larger than its predecessor, and cybernetically wired into Gargan, making him a cyborg. It is equipped with a more powerful tail, mechanical pincers, and is bulletproof. Smythe also altered Gargan's biology, giving him a \"scorpion-sense\" to match Spider-Man's spider-sense. The suit is also very tough, allowing Gargan to withstand a fall at terminal speed. The armor leaves Mac's jaw unprotected, which Doctor Octopus in Spider-Man's body exploited to punch his jaw clean off. Following his employment by Alchemax, he has gained a new jaw to replace the jaw he lost.\n\nIn one of the many realities visited by the Exiles, Mac Gargan is one of the many superhumans that form the Heroes for Hire, and is part of the \"Avengers Package\", which also includes the Black Widow and the Black Knight. After being hired to protect Tokyo from Moses Magnum and Namorita, Scorpion is killed by the murderous, teenage counterpart of Magik.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel comics feature Maximus Gargan, a tattoed Mexican mob boss that worked with the Prowler (Aaron Davis). This Gargan is the second villain to take on the alias of Scorpion, the first being a deranged, imperfect clone of Peter Parker. He is shown to have very resistant skin, but may have other powers as well. Once he arrived at New York, Gargan set his sights on becoming the new \"Kingpin of New York\", but was stopped by the efforts of an un-easy alliance of Spider-Man and Prowler.\n\nIn the last issue of \"JLA/Avengers\", Scorpion is among the enthralled villains defending Krona's stronghold, and is defeated by Sandman.\n\nA zombified Scorpion appears in \"\" and \"Marvel Zombies 3\". He is a member of the Kingpin's undead alliance. As such, he searches New York and the surrounding areas for food of any kind. He is on friendly terms with the zombie Diablo. He is eventually killed by Machine Man.\n\nGargan appears as the Scorpion (in a highly advanced costume) in \"\" as a member of the Sinner Six. He dies when he is punted from an Empire State Building window by Spider-Man.\n\nIn the \"Spider-Verse\", the Earth-001 version of Scorpion is a member of Verna's Hounds. Alongside the Earth-001 version of Rhino, Scorpion accompanied Verna to Earth-21205 to hunt Hobgoblin (who was the identity of that world's Peter Parker). They were stopped by the Spider-Woman of Earth-65.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199752", "title": "Mai-Mai", "text": "Mai-Mai\n\nThe term Mai-Mai or Mayi-Mayi refers to any kind of community-based militia group active in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), formed to defend their local territory against other armed groups. Most were formed to resist the invasion of Rwandan forces and Rwanda-affiliated Congolese rebel groups, but some may have formed to exploit the war for their own advantage by looting, cattle rustling or banditry.\n\nGroups that fall under the umbrella term \"Mai-Mai\" include armed forces led by warlords, traditional tribal elders, village heads, and politically motivated resistance fighters. Because Mai Mai have had only the most tenuous internal cohesion, different Mai-Mai groups allied themselves with a variety of domestic and foreign government and guerrilla groups at different times. The term Mai-Mai does not refer to any particular movement, affiliation or political objective but to a broad variety of groups.\n\nMai-Mai were particularly active in the eastern Congolese provinces bordering Rwanda, North Kivu and South Kivu (the \"Kivus\"), which were under the control of the Rwanda-allied Banyamulenge-dominated rebel faction, the Rally for Congolese Democracy–Goma (RCD-Goma). While militias have long been common in the Kivus, particularly among the minority Batembo and Babembe ethnic groups, the recent wars and conflicts caused large numbers of town dwellers to form Mai-Mai. Although the Mai-Mai, either as a group or as individual groups, were not party to the 1999 Lusaka Accord meant to end the war, they remained one of the most powerful forces in the conflict and the lack of cooperation from some groups has been problematic for the peace process.\n\nAccording to a 2001 UN report, 20,000 to 30,000 Mai-Mai were active in the two Kivu provinces. The two most powerful and well-organized Mai-Mai groups in the Kivus were led by Generals Padiri and Dunia, but now it is another \"Mai-Mai\" group which is called Mai-Mai Yakutumba which was organized in 2007 by General Yakutumba, ex-Mai-Mai in 2001. They were reported to have received aid from the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo and are widely viewed by other Mai Mai groups as the leaders, though not the commanders, of the Kivu Mai-Mai. A number of smaller Mai-Mai groups, such as the Mudundu 40/Front de Résistance et de Défense du Kivu (FRDKI) and Mouvement de Lutte contre l'Agression au Zaïre/Forces Unies de Résistance Nationale contre l'Agression de la Républíque Démocratique du Congo (MLAZ/FURNAC), were reported to cooperate with the Rwandan military and Rally for Congolese Democracy–Goma (RCD-Goma).\n\nWalikale and Masisi north of Goma were the centres of Mai-Mai activity in North Kivu. In South Kivu, there have historically been concentrations around Walungu and Bunyakiri south of Lake Kivu, around Uvira and Mwenaga at the northern end of Lake Tanganyika, further south around Fizi, and around Shabunda, between the Rwandan border and Kindu.\n\nA Mai-Mai leader, Colonel Mayele, was arrested by UN forces in October 2010, allegedly being the leader behind mass rapes in the Walikale region of North Kivu province.\n\nA former leader of the Mai-Mai, Gédéon Kyungu Mutanga, turned himself over to MONUC troops in May 2006. He was found guilty of numerous war crimes between October 2003 and May 2006 and was sentenced to death by the Kipushi Military Tribunal in Katanga Province on 6 March 2009. He escaped from prison in September 2011 and formed the Mai-Mai Kata Katanga (\"Secede Katanga\").\n\nThere was a large Mai-Mai presence in Maniema, in particular around Kindu and Kalemie. Province Orientale also hosts a number of Mai-Mai, but these groups were apparently involved in long-standing ethnic disputes.\n\n\"Mai-Mai Gedeon\" is also commanded by Gedeon Kyungu Mutanga and loosely tied to his Mai-Mai Kata Katanga. The \"Corak Kata Katanga\" also known as the Co-ordination for a Referendum on Self-determination for Katanga, composed mainly of former Katanga Tigers, a separatist group active in the 1960s. They claim to be behind the attack on the Katanga airport in February 2011. It is unclear to what extent all these groups are co-ordinated. \n\nIn May 2007, Mai-Mai killed two wildlife officers in Virunga National Park and threatened to kill mountain gorillas if the government retaliated. The Mai-Mai are also suspected of the killings of nine mountain gorillas, with the use of machetes, and automatic weapons. In an October 2012 incident, Mai-Mai killed two park staff and a soldier, while three soldiers were injured. From 1990 to 2018 some 170 Virunga Rangers have died in such attacks, according to the WWF. \n\nSix Virunga Park Rangers were reported to have been killed in Virunga National Park. Five rangers and a driver were killed in an ambush and a sixth ranger was injured in the Central section of the vast reserve on Monday April 9 2018. Officials suspected the attacks were by the Mai-Mai. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20796", "title": "Malcolm X", "text": "Malcolm X\n\nMalcolm X\nwas an American Muslim minister and human rights activist. To his admirers he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans; detractors accused him of preaching racism and violence. He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history.\n\nHis father was killed when he was six and his mother was placed in a mental hospital when he was thirteen, after which he lived in a series of foster homes. In 1946, at age 20, he went to prison for larceny and breaking and entering. While in prison, he became a member of the Nation of Islam (NOI), changing his birth name Malcolm Little to MalcolmX because, he later wrote, \"Little\" was the name that \"the white slavemaster... had imposed upon paternal forebears\". After his parole in 1952, he quickly rose to become one of the organization's most influential leaders, serving as the public face of the controversial group for a dozen years. In his autobiography, MalcolmX wrote proudly of some of the social achievements the Nation made while he was a member, particularly its free drug rehabilitation program. The Nation promoted black supremacy, advocated the separation of black and white Americans, and rejected the civil rights movement for its emphasis on integration.\n\nBy March 1964, MalcolmX had grown disillusioned with the Nation of Islam and its leader Elijah Muhammad. Expressing many regrets about his time with them, which he had come to regard as largely wasted, he embraced Sunni Islam. After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East, which included completing the Hajj, he also became known as el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz. He repudiated the Nation of Islam, disavowed racism and founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity. He continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism, black self-determination, and black self-defense.\n\nOn February 21, 1965, he was assassinated by three members of the Nation of Islam.\n\nMalcolm Little was born May19, 1925, in Omaha, Nebraska, the fourth of seven children of Grenada-born Louise Helen Little (née Norton) and Georgia-born Earl Little. Earl was an outspoken Baptist lay speaker, and he and Louise were admirers of Pan-African activist Marcus Garvey. Earl was a local leader of the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA) and Louise served as secretary and \"branch reporter\", sending news of local UNIA activities to \"Negro World\"; they inculcated self-reliance and black pride in their children. MalcolmX later said that white violence killed four of his father's brothers.\n\nBecause of Ku Klux Klan threatsEarl's UNIA activities were said to be \"spreading trouble\"the family relocated in 1926 to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and shortly thereafter to Lansing, Michigan. There the family was frequently harassed by the Black Legion, a white racist group. When the family home burned in 1929, Earl accused the Black Legion.\n\nWhen Malcolm was six, his father died in what was officially ruled a streetcar accident, though his mother Louise believed Earl had been murdered by the Black Legion. Rumors that white racists were responsible for his father's death were widely circulated and were very disturbing to Malcolm X as a child. As an adult, he expressed conflicting beliefs on the question. After a dispute with creditors, Louise received a life insurance benefit\n(nominally $1,000about $,000 in 2017 dollars) in payments of $18 per month; the issuer of another, larger policy refused to pay, claiming her husband Earl had committed suicide. To make ends meet Louise rented out part of her garden, and her sons hunted game.\n\nIn 1937 a man Louise had been datingmarriage had seemed a possibilityvanished from her life when she became pregnant with his child. In late 1938 she had a nervous breakdown and was committed to Kalamazoo State Hospital. The children were separated and sent to foster homes. Malcolm and his siblings secured her release 24 years later.\n\nMalcolm Little excelled in junior high school but dropped out after a white teacher told him that practicing law, his aspiration at the time, was \"no realistic goal for a nigger\". Later MalcolmX recalled feeling that the white world offered no place for a career-oriented black man, regardless of talent.\n\nFrom age 14 to 21, Little held a variety of jobs while living with his half-sister Ella Little-Collins in Roxbury, a largely African-American neighborhood of Boston.\n\nAfter a short time in Flint, Michigan, he moved to New York City's Harlem neighborhood in 1943, where he engaged in drug dealing, gambling, racketeering, robbery, and pimping.\nAccording to recent biographies, Little also occasionally had sex with other men, usually for money. He befriended John Elroy Sanford, a fellow dishwasher at Jimmy's Chicken Shack in Harlem who aspired to be a professional comedian. Both men had reddish hair, so Sanford was called \"Chicago Red\" after his hometown and Little was known as \"Detroit Red\". Years later, Sanford became famous as Redd Foxx.\n\nSummoned by the local draft board for military service in World WarII, he feigned mental disturbance by rambling and declaring: \"I want to be sent down South. Organize them nigger soldiers... steal us some guns, and kill us [some] crackers\". He was declared \"mentally disqualified for military service\".\n\nIn late 1945, Little returned to Boston, where he and four accomplices committed a series of burglaries targeting wealthy white families. In 1946, he was arrested while picking up a stolen watch he had left at a shop for repairs, and in February began serving an eight-to-ten-year sentence at Charlestown State Prison for larceny and breaking and entering.\n\nWhen Little was in prison, he met fellow convict John Bembry, a self-educated man he would later describe as \"the first man I had ever seen command total respect … with words\". Under Bembry's influence, Little developed a voracious appetite for reading.\n\nAt this time, several of his siblings wrote to him about the Nation of Islam, a relatively new religious movement preaching black self-reliance and, ultimately, the return of the African diaspora to Africa, where they would be free from white American and European domination. He showed scant interest at first, but after his brother Reginald wrote in 1948, \"Malcolm, don't eat any more pork and don't smoke any more cigarettes. I'll show you how to get out of prison\", he quit smoking and began to refuse pork. After a visit in which Reginald described the group's teachings, including the belief that white people are devils, Little concluded that every relationship he'd had with whites had been tainted by dishonesty, injustice, greed, and hatred. Little, whose hostility to religion had earned him the prison nickname \"Satan\", became receptive to the message of the Nation of Islam.\n\nIn late 1948, Little wrote to Elijah Muhammad, the leader of the Nation of Islam. Muhammad advised him to renounce his past, humbly bow in prayer to God, and promise never to engage in destructive behavior again. Though he later recalled the inner struggle he had before bending his knees to pray, Little soon became a member of the Nation of Islam,\nmaintaining a regular correspondence with Muhammad.\n\nIn 1950, the FBI opened a file on Little after he wrote a letter from prison to President Truman expressing opposition to the Korean War and declaring himself a Communist. That year, Little also began signing his name \"MalcolmX\". He explained in his autobiography that the Muslim's \"X\" symbolized the true African family name that he could never know. \"For me, my 'X' replaced the white slavemaster name of 'Little' which some blue-eyed devil named Little had imposed upon my paternal forebears.\"\n\nAfter his parole in August 1952, MalcolmX visited Elijah Muhammad in Chicago. In June 1953 he was named assistant minister of the Nation's Temple Number One in Detroit. Later that year he established Boston's Temple Number11; in March 1954, he expanded Temple Number12 in Philadelphia; and two months later he was selected to lead Temple Number7 in Harlem, where he rapidly expanded its membership.\n\nIn 1953, the FBI began surveillance of him, turning its attention from MalcolmX's possible communist associations to his rapid ascent in the Nation of Islam.\n\nDuring 1955, MalcolmX continued his successful recruitment of members on behalf of the Nation of Islam. He established temples in Springfield, Massachusetts (Number13); Hartford, Connecticut (Number14); and Atlanta, Georgia (Number15). Hundreds of African Americans were joining the Nation of Islam every month.\n\nBesides his skill as a speaker, MalcolmX had an impressive physical presence. He stood tall and weighed about . One writer described him as \"powerfully built\", and another as \"mesmerizingly handsome … and always spotlessly well-groomed\".\n\nIn 1955, Betty Sanders met MalcolmX after one of his lectures, then again at a dinner party; soon she was regularly attending his lectures. In 1956 she joined the Nation of Islam, changing her name to BettyX. One-on-one dates were contrary to the Nation's teachings, so the couple courted at social events with dozens or hundreds of others, and MalcolmX made a point of inviting her on the frequent group visits he led to New York City's museums and libraries.\n\nMalcolmX proposed during a telephone call from Detroit in January 1958, and they married two days later. They had six daughters:\nAttallah (b. 1958, named after Attila the Hun);\nQubilah (b. 1960, named after Kublai Khan); Ilyasah (b. 1962, named after Elijah Muhammad); Gamilah Lumumba (b. 1964, named after Patrice Lumumba); and twins Malikah and Malaak (b. 1965 after their father's death, and named in his honor).\n\nThe American public first became aware of MalcolmX in 1957, after Hinton Johnson, a Nation of Islam member, was beaten by two New York City police officers. On April26, Johnson and two other passersbyalso Nation of Islam memberssaw the officers beating an African-American man with nightsticks. When they attempted to intervene, shouting, \"You're not in Alabama...this is New York!\" one of the officers turned on Johnson, beating him so severely that he suffered brain contusions and subdural hemorrhaging. All four African-American men were arrested. Alerted by a witness, MalcolmX and a small group of Muslims went to the police station and demanded to see Johnson. Police initially denied that any Muslims were being held, but when the crowd grew to about five hundred, they allowed MalcolmX to speak with Johnson. Afterward, MalcolmX insisted on arranging for an ambulance to take Johnson to Harlem Hospital.\n\nJohnson's injuries were treated and by the time he was returned to the police station, some four thousand people had gathered outside. Inside the station, MalcolmX and an attorney were making bail arrangements for two of the Muslims. Johnson was not bailed, and police said he could not go back to the hospital until his arraignment the following day. Considering the situation to be at an impasse, MalcolmX stepped outside the station house and gave a hand signal to the crowd. Nation members silently left, after which the rest of the crowd also dispersed. One police officer told the \"New York Amsterdam News\": \"No one man should have that much power.\" Within a month the New York City Police Department arranged to keep MalcolmX under surveillance; it also made inquiries with authorities in other cities in which he had lived, and prisons in which he had served time. A grand jury declined to indict the officers who beat Johnson. In October, MalcolmX sent an angry telegram to the police commissioner. Soon the police department assigned undercover officers to infiltrate the Nation of Islam.\n\nBy the late 1950s, MalcolmX was using a new name, Malcolm Shabazz or Malik el-Shabazz, although he was still widely referred to as MalcolmX. His comments on issues and events were being widely reported in print, on radio, and on television, and he was featured in a 1959 New York City television broadcast about the Nation of Islam, \"The Hate That Hate Produced\".\n\nIn September 1960, at the United Nations General Assembly in New York City, MalcolmX was invited to the official functions of several African nations. He met Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, Ahmed Sékou Touré of Guinea, and Kenneth Kaunda of the Zambian African National Congress. Fidel Castro also attended the Assembly, and MalcolmX met publicly with him as part of a welcoming committee of Harlem community leaders. Castro was sufficiently impressed with MalcolmX to suggest a private meeting, and after two hours of talking, Castro invited MalcolmX to visit Cuba.\n\nFrom his adoption of the Nation of Islam in 1952 until he broke with it in 1964, MalcolmX promoted the Nation's teachings. These included the beliefs:\n\nMany whites and some blacks were alarmed by MalcolmX and the statements he made during this period. He and the Nation of Islam were described as hatemongers, black supremacists, racists, violence-seekers, segregationists, and a threat to improved race relations. He was accused of being antisemitic. One of the goals of the civil rights movement was to end disenfranchisement of African Americans, but the Nation of Islam forbade its members from participating in voting and other aspects of the political process. Civil rights organizations denounced him and the Nation as irresponsible extremists whose views did not represent African Americans.\n\nMalcolmX was equally critical of the civil rights movement. He labeled Martin Luther King Jr. a \"chump\" and other civil rights leaders \"stooges\" of the white establishment. He called the 1963 March on Washington \"the farce on Washington\", and said he did not know why so many black people were excited about a demonstration \"run by whites in front of a statue of a president who has been dead for a hundred years and who didn't like us when he was alive\".\n\nWhile the civil rights movement fought against racial segregation, MalcolmX advocated the complete separation of African Americans from whites. He proposed that African Americans should return to Africa and that, in the interim, a separate country for black people in America should be created. He rejected the civil rights movement's strategy of nonviolence, expressing the opinion that black people should defend and advance themselves \"by any means necessary\". His speeches had a powerful effect on his audiences, who were generally African Americans in northern and western cities. Many of themtired of being told to wait for freedom, justice, equality and respectfelt that he articulated their complaints better than did the civil rights movement.\n\nMalcolmX is widely regarded as the second most influential leader of the Nation of Islam after Elijah Muhammad. He was largely credited with the group's dramatic increase in membership between the early 1950s and early 1960s (from 500 to 25,000 by one estimate; from 1,200 to 50,000 or 75,000 by another).\n\nHe inspired the boxer Cassius Clay (later known as Muhammad Ali) to join the Nation, and the two became close; \nIn January 1964, Clay brought MalcolmX and his family to Miami to watch him train for his fight against Sonny Liston.\nWhen MalcolmX left the Nation of Islam, he tried to convince Clay to join him in converting to Sunni Islam, but Clay instead broke ties with himwhich Clay later described as one of his greatest regrets.\n\nMalcolmX mentored and guided LouisX (later known as Louis Farrakhan), who eventually became the leader of the Nation of Islam. MalcolmX also served as a mentor and confidant to Elijah Muhammad's son, Wallace D. Muhammad; the son told Malcolm X about his skepticism toward his father's \"unorthodox approach\" to Islam. Wallace Muhammad was excommunicated from the Nation of Islam several times, although he was eventually readmitted.\n\nDuring 1962 and 1963, events caused MalcolmX to reassess his relationship with the Nation of Islam, and particularly its leader, Elijah Muhammad.\n\nIn late 1961, there were violent confrontations between NOI members and police in South Central Los Angeles, and numerous Muslims were arrested. They were acquitted, but tensions had been raised. Just after midnight on April27, 1962, two LAPD officers shoved and beat several Muslims outside Temple Number 27 without provocation. A large crowd of angry Muslims came outside from the mosque. The officers attempted to intimidate the crowd. One officer was disarmed by the crowd; his partner was shot in the elbow by a third officer. More than 70 backup officers arrived. They raided the mosque and randomly beat NOI members. Police officers shot seven Muslims, including William X Rogers, who was hit in the back and paralyzed for life, and Ronald Stokes, a Korean War veteran, who was shot from behind while raising his hands over his head to surrender, killing him.\n\nA number of Muslims were indicted after the event, but no charges were made against the police. Furthermore, the coroner ruled that Stokes's killing was justified. To MalcolmX, the desecration of the mosque and the violence demanded action, and he used what Farrakhan later called his \"gangsterlike past\" to rally the more hardened of the NOI members to take violent action against the police. MalcolmX sought Elijah Muhammad's approval but was denied. MalcolmX was stunned by this response. MalcolmX also spoke of the NOI starting to work with civil rights organizations, local black politicians, and religious groups, another initiative blocked by Muhammad. LouisX saw this as an important turning point in the deteriorating relationship between MalcolmX and Muhammad.\n\nRumors were circulating that Muhammad was conducting extramarital affairs with young Nation secretarieswhich would constitute a serious violation of Nation teachings. After first discounting the rumors, MalcolmX came to believe them after he spoke with Muhammad's son Wallace and with the women making the accusations. Muhammad confirmed the rumors in 1963, attempting to justify his behavior by referring to precedents set by Biblical prophets.\n\nOn December1, 1963, when asked for a comment about the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, MalcolmX said that it was a case of \"chickens coming home to roost\". He added that \"chickens coming home to roost never did make me sad; they've always made me glad.\" \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"in further criticism of Mr. Kennedy, the Muslim leader cited the murders of Patrice Lumumba, Congo leader, of Medgar Evers, civil rights leader, and of the Negro girls bombed earlier this year in a Birmingham church. These, he said, were instances of other 'chickens coming home to roost'.\" The remarks prompted a widespread public outcry. The Nation of Islam, which had sent a message of condolence to the Kennedy family and ordered its ministers not to comment on the assassination, publicly censured their former shining star. MalcolmX retained his post and rank as minister, but was prohibited from public speaking for 90 days.\n\nMalcolmX had by now become a media favorite, and some Nation members believed he was a threat to Muhammad's leadership. Publishers had shown interest in MalcolmX's autobiography, and when Louis Lomax wrote his 1963 book about the Nation, \"When the Word Is Given\", he used a photograph of MalcolmX on the cover. He also reproduced five of his speeches, but featured only one of Muhammad'sall of which greatly upset Muhammad and made him envious.\n\nOn March8, 1964, MalcolmX publicly announced his break from the Nation of Islam. He was still a Muslim, he said, but felt that the Nation had \"gone as far as it can\" because of its rigid teachings. He said he was planning to organize a black nationalist organization to \"heighten the political consciousness\" of African Americans. He also expressed a desire to work with other civil rights leaders, saying that Elijah Muhammad had prevented him from doing so in the past.\n\nAfter leaving the Nation of Islam, MalcolmX founded Muslim Mosque, Inc. (MMI), a religious organization, and the Organization of Afro-American Unity (OAAU), a secular group that advocated Pan-Africanism. On March26, 1964, he met Martin Luther King Jr. for the first and only timeand only long enough for photographs to be takenin Washington, D.C., as both men attended the Senate's debate on the Civil Rights bill. In April, MalcolmX gave a speech titled \"The Ballot or the Bullet\", in which he advised African Americans to exercise their right to vote wisely but cautioned that if the government continued to prevent African Americans from attaining full equality, it might be necessary for them to take up arms.\n\nIn the weeks after he left the Nation of Islam, several Sunni Muslims encouraged MalcolmX to learn about their faith. He soon converted to the Sunni faith.\n\nIn April 1964, with financial help from his half-sister Ella Little-Collins, MalcolmX flew to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, as the start of his Hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca obligatory for every Muslim who is able to do so. He was delayed in Jeddah when his U.S. citizenship and inability to speak Arabic caused his status as a Muslim to be questioned. He had received Abdul Rahman Hassan Azzam's book \"The Eternal Message of Muhammad\" with his visa approval, and he contacted the author. Azzam's son arranged for his release and lent him his personal hotel suite. The next morning MalcolmX learned that Prince Faisal had designated him as a state guest. Several days later, after completing the Hajj rituals, MalcolmX had an audience with the prince.\n\nMalcolmX later said that seeing Muslims of \"all colors, from blue-eyed blonds to black-skinned Africans,\" interacting as equals led him to see Islam as a means by which racial problems could be overcome.\n\nMalcolmX had already visited the United Arab Republic (a short-lived political union between Egypt and Syria), Sudan, Nigeria, and Ghana in 1959 to make arrangements for a tour of Africa by Elijah Muhammad. After his journey to Mecca in 1964, he visited Africa a second time. He returned to the United States in late May and flew to Africa again in July. During these visits he met officials, gave interviews, and spoke on radio and television in Egypt, Ethiopia, Tanganyika, Nigeria, Ghana, Guinea, Sudan, Senegal, Liberia, Algeria, and Morocco. In Cairo, he attended the second meeting of the Organization of African Unity as a representative of the OAAU. By the end of this third visit, he had met with essentially all of Africa's prominent leaders; Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt, and Ahmed Ben Bella of Algeria had all invited MalcolmX to serve in their governments. After he spoke at the University of Ibadan, the Nigerian Muslim Students Association bestowed on him the honorary Yoruba name \"Omowale\" (\"the son who has come home\"). He later called this his most treasured honor.\n\nOn November23, 1964, on his way home from Africa, MalcolmX stopped in Paris, where he spoke in the Salle de la Mutualité. A week later, on November30, MalcolmX flew to the United Kingdom, and on December3 took part in a debate at the Oxford Union Society. The motion was taken from a statement made earlier that year by U.S. presidential candidate Barry Goldwater: \"Extremism in the Defense of Liberty is No Vice; Moderation in the Pursuit of Justice is No Virtue\". MalcolmX argued for the affirmative, and interest in the debate was so high that it was televised nationally by the BBC.\n\nOn February5, 1965, MalcolmX flew to Britain again, and on February8 he addressed the first meeting of the Council of African Organizations in London. The next day he tried to return to France, but was refused entry.\n\nOn February12, he visited Smethwick, near Birmingham, where the Conservative Party had won the parliamentary seat in the 1964 general election. The town had become a byword for racial division after Conservative supporters used the slogan, \"If you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labour.\" In Smethwick he compared the treatment of ethnic minority residents with the treatment of Jews under Hitler, saying: \"I would not wait for the fascist element in Smethwick to erect gas ovens.\"\n\nAfter returning to the U.S., MalcolmX addressed a wide variety of audiences. He spoke regularly at meetings held by MMI and the OAAU, and was one of the most sought-after speakers on college campuses. One of his top aides later wrote that he \"welcomed every opportunity to speak to college students\". He also addressed public meetings of the Socialist Workers Party, speaking at their Militant Labor Forum. He was interviewed on the subjects of segregation and the Nation of Islam by Robert Penn Warren for Warren's 1965 book \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\"\n\nThroughout 1964, as his conflict with the Nation of Islam intensified, MalcolmX was repeatedly threatened.\n\nIn February, a leader of Temple Number Seven ordered the bombing of MalcolmX's car. In March, Muhammad told Boston minister LouisX (later known as Louis Farrakhan) that \"hypocrites like Malcolm should have their heads cut off\"; the April10 edition of \"Muhammad Speaks\" featured a cartoon depicting MalcolmX's bouncing, severed head.\n\nOn June8, FBI surveillance recorded a telephone call in which Betty Shabazz was told that her husband was \"as good as dead\". Four days later, an FBI informant received a tip that \"MalcolmX is going to be bumped off.\" (That same month the Nation sued to reclaim MalcolmX's residence in East Elmhurst, Queens, New York. His family was ordered to vacate but on February14, 1965the night before a hearing on postponing the evictionthe house was destroyed by fire.)\n\nOn July9 Muhammad aide John Ali (suspected of being an undercover FBI agent) referred to MalcolmX by saying, \"Anyone who opposes the Honorable Elijah Muhammad puts their life in jeopardy.\" In the December4 issue of \"Muhammad Speaks\", LouisX wrote that \"such a man as Malcolm is worthy of death\".\n\nThe September 1964 issue of \"Ebony\" dramatized MalcolmX's defiance of these threats by publishing a photograph of him holding an M1 carbine while peering out a window.\n\nOn February19, 1965, MalcolmX told interviewer Gordon Parks that the Nation of Islam was actively trying to kill him. On February21, 1965, he was preparing to address the OAAU in Manhattan's Audubon Ballroom when someone in the 400-person audience yelled,\n\"Nigger! Get your hand outta my pocket!\"\nAs MalcolmX and his bodyguards tried to quell the disturbance, a man rushed forward and shot him once in the chest with a sawed-off shotgun and two other men charged the stage firing semi-automatic handguns. MalcolmX was pronounced dead at 3:30pm, shortly after arriving at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. The autopsy identified 21 gunshot wounds to the chest, left shoulder, arms and legs, including ten buckshot wounds from the initial shotgun blast.\n\nOne gunman, Nation of Islam member Talmadge Hayer (also known as Thomas Hagan), was beaten by the crowd before police arrived. Witnesses identified the other gunmen as Nation members Norman 3X Butler and Thomas 15X Johnson. All three were convicted of murder in March 1966 and sentenced to life in prison.\nAt trial Hayer confessed, but refused to identify the other assailants except to assert that they were not Butler and Johnson.\nIn 1977 and 1978, he signed affidavits reasserting Butler's and Johnson's innocence, naming four other Nation members as participants in the murder or its planning. These affidavits did not result in the case being reopened.\nButler, today known as Muhammad Abdul Aziz, was paroled in 1985 and became the head of the Nation's Harlem mosque in 1998; he maintains his innocence. In prison Johnson, who changed his name to Khalil Islam, rejected the Nation's teachings and converted to Sunni Islam. Released in 1987, he maintained his innocence until his death in August 2009. Hayer, who also rejected the Nation's teachings while in prison and converted to Sunni Islam, is known today as Mujahid Halim. He was paroled in 2010.\n\nA CNN Special Report, \"Witnessed: The Assassination of MalcolmX\", was broadcast on February17, 2015. It featured interviews with several people who worked with him, including A. Peter Bailey and Earl Grant, as well as the daughter of MalcolmX, Ilyasah Shabazz.\n\nThe public viewing, February2326 at Unity Funeral Home in Harlem, was attended by some 14,000 to 30,000 mourners.\nFor the funeral on February27, loudspeakers were set up for the overflow crowd outside Harlem's thousand-seat Faith Temple of the Church of God in Christ, and a local television station carried the service live.\n\nAmong the civil rights leaders attending were John Lewis, Bayard Rustin, James Forman, James Farmer, Jesse Gray, and Andrew Young. Actor and activist Ossie Davis delivered the eulogy, describing MalcolmX as \"our shining black prince... who didn't hesitate to die, because he loved us so\":\nThere are those who will consider it their duty, as friends of the Negro people, to tell us to revile him, to flee, even from the presence of his memory, to save ourselves by writing him out of the history of our turbulent times. Many will ask what Harlem finds to honor in this stormy, controversial and bold young captainand we will smile. Many will say turn awayaway from this man, for he is not a man but a demon, a monster, a subverter and an enemy of the black manand we will smile. They will say that he is of hatea fanatic, a racistwho can only bring evil to the cause for which you struggle! And we will answer and say to them: Did you ever talk to Brother Malcolm? Did you ever touch him, or have him smile at you? Did you ever really listen to him? Did he ever do a mean thing? Was he ever himself associated with violence or any public disturbance? For if you did you would know him. And if you knew him you would know why we must honor him... And, in honoring him, we honor the best in ourselves.\n\nMalcolmX was buried at Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, New York. Friends took up the gravediggers' shovels to complete the burial themselves.\n\nActor and activist Ruby Dee and Juanita Poitier (wife of Sidney Poitier) established the Committee of Concerned Mothers to raise money for a home for his family and for his children's educations.\n\nReactions to MalcolmX's assassination were varied. In a telegram to Betty Shabazz, Martin Luther King Jr. expressed his sadness at \"the shocking and tragic assassination of your husband\". He said,\nWhile we did not always see eye to eye on methods to solve the race problem, I always had a deep affection for Malcolm and felt that he had a great ability to put his finger on the existence and root of the problem. He was an eloquent spokesman for his point of view and no one can honestly doubt that Malcolm had a great concern for the problems that we face as a race.\n\nElijah Muhammad told the annual Savior's Day convention on February26, \"MalcolmX got just what he preached\", but denied any involvement with the murder. \"We didn't want to kill Malcolm and didn't try to kill him\", Muhammad said. \"We know such ignorant, foolish teachings would bring him to his own end.\"\n\nWriter James Baldwin, who had been a friend of MalcolmX's, was in London when he heard the news of the assassination. He responded with indignation towards the reporters interviewing him, shouting, \"You did it! It is because of you—the men that created this white supremacy—that this man is dead. You are not guilty, but you did it ... Your mills, your cities, your rape of a continent started all this.\"\n\nThe \"New York Post\" wrote that \"even his sharpest critics recognized his brillianceoften wild, unpredictable and eccentric, but nevertheless possessing promise that must now remain unrealized\". \"The New York Times\" wrote that MalcolmX was \"an extraordinary and twisted man\" who \"turn[ed] many true gifts to evil purpose\" and that his life was \"strangely and pitifully wasted\". \"Time\" called him \"an unashamed demagogue\" whose \"creed was violence.\"\n\nOutside of the U.S., and particularly in Africa, the press was sympathetic. The \"Daily Times of Nigeria\" wrote that MalcolmX would \"have a place in the palace of martyrs\". The \"Ghanaian Times\" likened him to John Brown, Medgar Evers, and Patrice Lumumba, and counted him among \"a host of Africans and Americans who were martyred in freedom's cause\". In China, the \"People's Daily\" described MalcolmX as a martyr killed by \"ruling circles and racists\" in the United States; his assassination, the paper wrote, demonstrated that \"in dealing with imperialist oppressors, violence must be met with violence\". The \"Guangming Daily\", also published in Beijing, stated that \"Malcolm was murdered because he fought for freedom and equal rights\". in Cuba, \"El Mundo\" described the assassination as \"another racist crime to eradicate by violence the struggle against discrimination\".\n\nIn a weekly column he wrote for the \"New York Amsterdam News\", King reflected on MalcolmX and his\nassassination:\n\nMalcolmX was clearly a product of the hate and violence invested in the Negro's blighted existence in this nation. ...\n\nIn his youth, there was no hope, no preaching, teaching or movements of non-violence. ...\n\nIt is a testimony to Malcolm's personal depth and integrity that he could not become an underworld Czar, but turned again and again to religion for meaning and destiny. Malcolm was still turning and growing at the time of his brutal and meaningless assassination. ...\n\nLike the murder of Lumumba, the murder of MalcolmX deprives the world of a potentially great leader. I could not agree with either of these men, but I could see in them a capacity for leadership which I could respect, and which was just beginning to mature in judgment and statesmanship.\n\nWithin days, the question of who bore responsibility for the assassination was being publicly debated. On February23, James Farmer, the leader of the Congress of Racial Equality, announced at a news conference that local drug dealers, and not the Nation of Islam, were to blame. Others accused the NYPD, the FBI, or the CIA, citing the lack of police protection, the ease with which the assassins entered the Audubon Ballroom, and the failure of the police to preserve the crime scene. Earl Grant, one of MalcolmX's associates who was present at the assassination, later wrote:\n\n[A]bout five minutes later, a most incredible scene took place. Into the hall sauntered about a dozen policemen. They were strolling at about the pace one would expect of them if they were patrolling a quiet park. They did not seem to be at all excited or concerned about the circumstances.I could hardly believe my eyes. Here were New York City policemen, entering a room from which at least a dozen shots had been heard, and yet not one of them had his gun out! As a matter of absolute fact, some of them even had their hands in their pockets.\n\nIn the 1970s, the public learned about COINTELPRO and other secret FBI programs established to infiltrate and disrupt civil rights organizations during the 1950s and 1960s. John Ali, national secretary of the Nation of Islam, was believed to have been an FBI undercover agent. MalcolmX had confided to a reporter that Ali exacerbated tensions between him and Elijah Muhammad and that he considered Ali his \"archenemy\" within the Nation of Islam leadership. Ali had a meeting with Talmadge Hayer, one of the men convicted of killing MalcolmX, the night before the assassination.\n\nThe Shabazz family are among those who have accused Louis Farrakhan of involvement in MalcolmX's assassination. In a 1993 speech Farrakhan seemed to acknowledge the possibility that the Nation of Islam was responsible:\n\nWas Malcolm your traitor or ours? And if we dealt with him like a nation deals with a traitor, what the \"hell\" business is it of yours? A nation has to be able to deal with traitors and cutthroats and turncoats.\n\nIn a \"60 Minutes\" interview that aired during May 2000, Farrakhan stated that some things he said may have led to the assassination of MalcolmX. \"I may have been complicit in words that I spoke\", he said. \"I acknowledge that and regret that any word that I have said caused the loss of life of a human being.\" A few days later Farrakhan denied that he \"ordered the assassination\" of MalcolmX, although he again acknowledged that he \"created the atmosphere that ultimately led to MalcolmX's assassination\".\n\nNo consensus has been reached on who was responsible for the assassination. In August 2014, an online petition was started using the White House online petition mechanism to call on the government to release without alteration any files they still held relating to the murder of Malcolm X.\n\nExcept for his autobiography, MalcolmX left no published writings. His philosophy is known almost entirely from the many speeches and interviews he gave from 1952 until his death. Many of those speeches, especially from the last year of his life, were recorded and have been published.\n\nWhile he was a member of the Nation of Islam, MalcolmX taught its beliefs, and his statements often began with the phrase \"The Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us that...\" It is virtually impossible now to discern whether MalcolmX's personal beliefs at the time diverged from the teachings of the Nation of Islam. After he left the Nation in 1964, he compared himself to a ventriloquist's dummy who could only say what Elijah Muhammad told him to say.\n\nMalcolmX taught that black people were the original people of the world, and that white people were a race of devils who were created by an evil scientist named Yakub. The Nation of Islam believed that black people were superior to white people and that the demise of the white race was imminent. When questioned concerning his statements that white people were devils, MalcolmX said: \"history proves the white man is a devil.\" \"Anybody who rapes, and plunders, and enslaves, and steals, and drops hell bombs on people ... anybody who does these things is nothing but a devil.\"\n\nMalcolmX said that Islam was the \"true religion of black mankind\" and that Christianity was \"the white man's religion\" that had been imposed upon African Americans by their slave-masters. He said that the Nation of Islam followed Islam as it was practiced around the world, but the Nation's teachings varied from those of other Muslims because they were adapted to the \"uniquely pitiful\" condition of black people in the United States. He taught that Wallace Fard Muhammad, the founder of the Nation, was God incarnate, and that Elijah Muhammad was his Messenger, or Prophet.\n\nWhile the civil rights movement fought against racial segregation, MalcolmX advocated the complete separation of blacks from whites. The Nation of Islam proposed the establishment of a separate country for African Americans in the southern or southwestern United States as an interim measure until African Americans could return to Africa. MalcolmX suggested the United States government owed reparations to black people for the unpaid labor of their ancestors. He also rejected the civil rights movement's strategy of nonviolence, advocating instead that black people should defend themselves.\n\nAfter leaving the Nation of Islam, MalcolmX announced his willingness to work with leaders of the civil rights movement, though he advocated some changes to their policies. He felt that calling the movement a struggle for \"civil rights\" would keep the issue within the United States while changing the focus to \"human rights\" would make it an international concern. The movement could then bring its complaints before the United Nations, where MalcolmX said the emerging nations of the world would add their support.\n\nMalcolmX argued that if the U.S. government was unwilling or unable to protect black people, black people should protect themselves. He said that he and the other members of the OAAU were determined to defend themselves from aggressors, and to secure freedom, justice and equality \"by whatever means necessary\".\n\nMalcolmX stressed the global perspective he gained from his international travels. He emphasized the \"direct connection\" between the domestic struggle of African Americans for equal rights with the independence struggles of Third World nations. He said that African Americans were wrong when they thought of themselves as a minority; globally, black people were the majority.\n\nIn his speeches at the Militant Labor Forum, which was sponsored by the Socialist Workers Party, MalcolmX criticized capitalism. After one such speech, when he was asked what political and economic system he wanted, he said he did not know, but that it was no coincidence the newly independent countries in the Third World were turning toward socialism. When a reporter asked him what he thought about socialism, MalcolmX asked whether it was good for black people. When the reporter told him it seemed to be, MalcolmX told him, \"Then I'm for it.\"\n\nAlthough he no longer called for the separation of black people from white people, MalcolmX continued to advocate black nationalism, which he defined as self-determination for the African-American community. In the last months of his life, however, MalcolmX began to reconsider his support for black nationalism after meeting northern African revolutionaries who, to all appearances, were white.\n\nAfter his Hajj, MalcolmX articulated a view of white people and racism that represented a deep change from the philosophy he had supported as a minister of the Nation of Islam. In a famous letter from Mecca, he wrote that his experiences with white people during his pilgrimage convinced him to \"rearrange\" his thinking about race and \"toss aside some of [his] previous conclusions\". In a conversation with Gordon Parks, two days before his assassination, Malcolm said:\n\n[L]istening to leaders like Nasser, Ben Bella, and Nkrumah awakened me to the dangers of racism. I realized racism isn't just a black and white problem. It's brought bloodbaths to about every nation on earth at one time or another.\n\nBrother, remember the time that white college girl came into the restaurantthe one who wanted to help the [Black] Muslims and the whites get togetherand I told her there wasn't a ghost of a chance and she went away crying? Well, I've lived to regret that incident. In many parts of the African continent I saw white students helping black people. Something like this kills a lot of argument. I did many things as a [Black] Muslim that I'm sorry for now. I was a zombie thenlike all [Black] MuslimsI was hypnotized, pointed in a certain direction and told to march. Well, I guess a man's entitled to make a fool of himself if he's ready to pay the cost. It cost me 12 years.\n\nThat was a bad scene, brother. The sickness and madness of those daysI'm glad to be free of them.\n\nMalcolmX has been described as one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history. He is credited with raising the self-esteem of black Americans and reconnecting them with their African heritage. He is largely responsible for the spread of Islam in the black community in the United States. Many African Americans, especially those who lived in cities in the Northern and Western United States, felt that MalcolmX articulated their complaints concerning inequality better than did the mainstream civil rights movement. One biographer says that by giving expression to their frustration, MalcolmX \"made clear the price that white America would have to pay if it did not accede to black America's legitimate demands\".\n\nIn the late 1960s, increasingly radical black activists based their movements largely on MalcolmX and his teachings. The Black Power movement, the Black Arts Movement, and the widespread adoption of the slogan \"Black is beautiful\" can all trace their roots to MalcolmX.\n\nIn 1963 MalcolmX began a collaboration with Alex Haley on his life story, \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\". He told Haley, \"If I'm alive when this book comes out, it will be a miracle.\" Haley completed and published it some months after the assassination.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and early 1990s, there was a resurgence of interest in his life among young people. Hip-hop groups such as Public Enemy adopted MalcolmX as an icon, and his image was displayed in hundreds of thousands of homes, offices, and schools, as well as on T-shirts and jackets. This wave peaked in 1992 with the release of the film \"MalcolmX\", an adaptation of \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\".\n\nIn 1998 \"Time\" named \"The Autobiography of MalcolmX\" one of the ten most influential nonfiction books of the 20th century. \n\nDenzel Washington played the title role in the 1992 motion picture \"MalcolmX\"named one of the ten best films of the 1990s by both critic Roger Ebert and director Martin Scorsese. Washington had previously played the part of MalcolmX in the 1981 Off-Broadway play \"When the Chickens Came Home to Roost\". Other portrayals include:\n\nThe house that once stood at 3448 Pinkney Street in North Omaha, Nebraska, was the first home of Malcolm Little with his birth family. The house was torn down in 1965 by new owners who did not know of its connection with MalcolmX. The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.\n\nIn Lansing, Michigan, a Michigan Historical Marker was erected in 1975 on Malcolm Little's childhood home. The city is also home to El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz Academy, a public charter school with an Afrocentric focus. The school is located in the building where Little attended elementary school.\n\nIn cities around the world, MalcolmX's birthday (May19) is commemorated as Malcolm X Day. The first known celebration of MalcolmX Day took place in Washington, D.C., in 1971. The city of Berkeley, California, has recognized MalcolmX's birthday as a citywide holiday since 1979.\n\nMany cities have renamed streets after MalcolmX. In 1987, New York mayor Ed Koch proclaimed Lenox Avenue in Harlem to be MalcolmX Boulevard. The name of Reid Avenue in Brooklyn, New York, was changed to MalcolmX Boulevard in 1985. In 1997, Oakland Avenue in Dallas, Texas, was renamed MalcolmX Boulevard. Main Street in Lansing, Michigan, was renamed MalcolmX Street in 2010. In 2016, Ankara, Turkey, renamed the street on which the U.S. is building its new embassy after MalcolmX.\n\nDozens of schools have been named after MalcolmX, including Malcolm X Shabazz High School in Newark, New Jersey, Malcolm Shabazz City High School in Madison, Wisconsin, and Malcolm X College in Chicago, Illinois. Malcolm X Liberation University, based on the Pan-Africanist ideas of MalcolmX, was founded in 1969 in North Carolina.\n\nIn 1996, the first library named after MalcolmX was opened, the MalcolmX Branch Library and Performing Arts Center of the San Diego Public Library system.\n\nThe U.S. Postal Service issued a MalcolmX postage stamp in 1999. In 2005, Columbia University announced the opening of the Malcolm X and Dr. Betty Shabazz Memorial and Educational Center. The memorial is located in the Audubon Ballroom, where MalcolmX was assassinated. Collections of MalcolmX's papers are held by the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture and the Robert W. Woodruff Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46861405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46861405", "title": "Marine microbial symbiosis", "text": "Marine microbial symbiosis\n\nMicrobial symbiosis in marine animals was not discovered until 1981. In the time following, symbiotic relationships between marine invertebrates and chemoautotrophic bacteria have been found in a variety of ecosystems, ranging from shallow coastal waters to deep-sea hydrothermal vents. The type of marine animal vary greatly, for example, sponges, sea squirts, corals, worms, and algae all host a variety of unique symbionts. Each symbiotic relationship displays a unique ecological niche, which in turn can lead to entirely new species of host species and symbiont.\n\nIt is particularly interesting that it took so long to discover the marine microbial symbiosis because nearly every surface submerged in the oceans becomes covered with biofilm, including a large number of living organisms. Many marine organisms display symbiotic relationships with microbes. Epibiotic bacteria have been found to live on crustacean larvae and protect them from fungal infections. Other microbes in deep-sea vents have been found to prevent the settlement of barnacles and tunicate larvae.\n\nThe most notable display of marine symbiotic relationship would be coral. Coral reefs are home to a variety of dinoflagellate symbiont, these symbionts give coral its bright coloring and are vital for the survival of the reef. The symbionts provide the coral with food in exchange for protection. If the waters warm or become too acidic, the symbionts are expelled, the coral bleaches and if conditions persist the coral will die. This in turn leads to the collapse of the entire reef ecosystem.\n\nMarine invertebrates are the hosts of a wide spectrum of bioactive metabolites, which have vast potential as drugs and research tools. In many cases, microbes aid in or are responsible for marine invertebrates natural products. Certain marine microbes can provide insight into the biosynthesis mechanisms of natural products, which in turn could solve the current limitations on marine drug development.\n"}
{"id": "28360275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28360275", "title": "Moustache (dog)", "text": "Moustache (dog)\n\nMoustache, sometimes abbreviated to Mous, (September 1799 – 11 March 1812) was a French poodle who is reputed to have played a part in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars. His story is recounted in many publications but may be partly fictionalised. Moustache is said to have been born in Falaise, Normandy, France in 1799 and to have joined a grenadier regiment at Caen. He followed the regiment through the Italian Campaign of the Revolutionary Wars and is said to have alerted the regiment to a surprise night attack by Austrian forces. He is reported to have been present at the Battle of Marengo, during which he lost an ear, and with a cuirassier regiment at the Battle of Austerlitz.\n\nAt Austerlitz Moustache was apparently responsible for the discovery of an Austrian spy, and the recovery of the regiment's standard from the Austrians. As a result of wounds taken at Austerlitz Moustache had a leg amputated and was reportedly rewarded with a medal by Marshal Jean Lannes. He is later said to have followed a unit of dragoons to Spain where he fought in several actions of the Peninsular War. Seeing action in the Sierra Morena and later, with a gunboat unit, at the Battle of Badajoz, where he was killed by a cannonball. Moustache was interred beneath a gravestone on the battlefield but his memorial is said to have been smashed and his bones burned after the war.\n\nOne of the earliest written accounts of Moustache's life is that written by Arna Cano and published in \"The Kaleidoscope\" magazine of Liverpool in January 1826. This, published twenty years after the dog's death, may be partially fictionalised. A similar story is recounted in a detailed French-language account written by Alain de Fivas and published in 1864. Moustache is mentioned in at least eleven English, French and German publications. The story presented here is drawn largely from the Cano and de Fivas accounts and notes any disagreement with the other accounts.\n\nMoustache, a black poodle, was born in Falaise in Normandy, France in approximately September 1799. At the age of six months Cano states that he was sent to Caen to live with a grocer and whilst there encountered a group of grenadiers on parade. He goes on to say that Moustache followed behind the regiment, which had no other dogs, as it left the town and, on the approval of the drum major, was allowed to accompany the unit on campaign. The regiment was headed to Italy as part of the Italian Campaign fought by France against Austria during the French Revolutionary Wars.\n\nThough Moustache was not a trained military dog, he apparently took to military life well, comfortably crossing the Great St Bernard Pass through the Alps with First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte's army in spring 1800. It is during this stage that one of Moustache's most famous actions is reputed to have taken place. Whilst the regiment was encamped near Belbo the Austrians are said to have mounted a surprise night attack on the camp in stormy weather conditions. It is claimed that Moustache noticed the approaching Austrian troops and barked to alert the grenadiers, who stood to, and repulsed the attack.\n\nOther sources place this event as occurring in Alexandria, Egypt during the Egyptian campaign against the Ottoman Empire. This variant may have been inspired by Napoleon's letter to General Auguste de Marmont just prior to the 1799 Battle of Abukir when Marmont was in Alexandria. It urged Marmont to provide an attack warning system by securing \"a large quantity of dogs which can be made use of by posting them in front of your fortifications\". After this event, the Colonel of the grenadier regiment is said to have formally placed Moustache on the roll as a grenadier and gave him a collar bearing the regiment's name. Additionally, he ordered that Moustache receive the field rations entitled to a grenadier and that he be combed by the unit's barber once per week.\n\nBoth Cano and de Fivas say that whilst en route to Spinetta Marengo Moustache took part in a small engagement between a company of his regiment and some Austrians. He was standing at the front of the company when he received a bayonet wound to his left shoulder. Moustache spent several days recovering in the hospital of the regimental surgeon. Though he was not fully recovered from the wound, still having a limp, Moustache is said to have taken to the field with the regiment on 14 June 1800 at the Battle of Marengo. During the battle he persistently barked at the Austrian forces and was only dissuaded from attacking them by their fixed bayonets.\n\nMoustache did engage in close combat with one opponent - a pointer owned by an Austrian corporal that approached the French lines. De Fivas says that Moustache quickly pounced on the larger, stronger dog and fought with him for some time before a musket shot killed the pointer. Cano states that Moustache was also wounded by the shot, losing an ear. Moustache deserted the grenadiers shortly after the French victory at Marengo, apparently because one of them attempted to chain him to a sentry box, and instead joined a company of mounted cuirassiers.\n\nAccording to de Fivas, Moustache was responsible for the discovery of an Austrian spy in the French camp just prior to the Battle of Austerlitz. The dog is alleged to have leapt to his feet and barked at the Austrian to alert French soldiers. Some sources state that this event occurred around the time of the earlier battles of Marengo or Abukir.\n\nMoustache's greatest achievement is said to have taken place at Austerlitz. De Fivas states that Moustache went into battle with the cuirassiers and was present when the regimental standard bearer was surrounded by Austrian soldiers. The standard bearer apparently killed three Austrians before he was himself cut down, wrapping the flag around him as he fell to prevent its capture. It is at this point that de Fivas alleges that Moustache confronted the five or six remaining Austrians and was about to be bayoneted when the group was hit by a blast of artillery grapeshot. Moustache, wounded in the leg, is reputed to have torn the flag off the body of the standard bearer and returned it to the French camp.\n\nIn recognition of this action Marshal Jean Lannes is reported to have ordered that Moustache's old collar be replaced with a copper medal on a piece of red ribbon. De Fivas states that this medal was engraved with the words \"II perdit une jambe à la bataille d'Austerlitz, et sauva le drapeau de son régiment\" on the front, and \"Moustache, chien français : qu'il soit partout respecté et chéri comme un brave\" on the reverse, which translates to \"He lost a leg at the Battle of Austerlitz and saved the regimental flag\" and \"Moustache, A French dog: Everywhere respected and cherished as a hero\" respectively. At least one other source says instead that the medal was silver and had a tricolore collar.\n\nMoustache later had to have his wounded leg amputated. Other rewards he is said to have received for this event include an order being issued that whichever regiment he presented himself at would have to feed him the rations of a serving soldier and that he was placed on the regimental books and was to receive the pay and rations of a soldier. A further legend says that Moustache was presented to Napoleon himself and demonstrated to have performed a trick whereby he would cock his leg whenever France's enemies were mentioned.\n\nAt the Battle of Essling, Moustache was supposed to have found a mate. Upon joining the front lines, a fellow Poodle was spotted amongst the enemy. During the course of the battle, the two met and the female Poodle accompanied Moustache back to the French camp. This relationship lasted about a year and together the pair produced puppies which were looked after by the women of the camp.\n\nMoustache is said to have left the cuirassiers after he was struck by a cavalryman with the flat of his sword. De Fivas says that he attached himself to a unit of dragoons which he followed to Spain, taking part in two campaigns with them during which he would walk ahead of their column and bark warnings whenever he heard a noise. During a battle in the Sierra Morena mountain range in southern Spain Moustache is alleged to have led back to camp the horses of dragoons killed on the battlefield. Shortly after this he is said to have been secretly taken by a Colonel who wished to own him. After spending seventeen days in captivity the dog apparently escaped by an open window and joined with a gunboat crew. Afterwards he participated in the Battle of Badajoz where he was struck by a cannonball and killed on 11 March 1812, at the age of twelve years.\n\nMoustache was reputedly buried on the battlefield alongside his medal and ribbon with a gravestone engraved with the words \"Ici repose le brave Moustache\" (\"Here lies the brave Moustache\"). Though he was wounded many times in his life it is said that all of his wounds were to his front. After the allied victory over the French in the Peninsular War, it is alleged that the Spanish destroyed his gravestone and the Inquisition ordered his bones to be dug up and burned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40325733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40325733", "title": "Nora Samuelli", "text": "Nora Samuelli\n\nNora Isabella Samuelli (July 9, 1914 – December 1986) was a Romanian spy for the United States while employed at its Legation in Bucharest during the Cold War – authorizes Private Bill 89-203, under which Samuelli will be held and considered to have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States as of July 31, 1963, upon payment of the required visa fee.\n\nIn 1949, Nora Samuelli and her sister, Annie, were arrested as spies in Bucharest by the then Communist government. After \"nine months of torture and interrogation, the two sisters were sentenced to long prison terms. Then in 1961, after 11 years and 340 days (July 24, 1949 – June 14, 1961) in separate security prisons and cells, the two were quietly ransomed out by a relative in the United States, and exiled as stateless refugees. While Annie was granted British citizenship within only a few months, it took three years, two presidents and the passage of Bills on her behalf in the US Congress for Nora to receive the same privilege in America.\"\n\nThe two Private Bills of 1965 which benefited Nora Samuelli were:\n\nNora Samuelli died in December 1986 in Washington, D.C., aged 72. \n\n"}
{"id": "2306230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2306230", "title": "Patriarch Hermogenes of Moscow", "text": "Patriarch Hermogenes of Moscow\n\nHermogenes, or Germogen () (secular name Yermolay) (before 1530 – February 17, 1612) was the Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia from 1606. It was he who inspired the popular uprising that put an end to the Time of Troubles. Hermogenes was glorified by the Russian Orthodox Church in 1913. \n\nAt the Holy Synod of 1589, which established the patriarchy in Moscow, Hermogenes was appointed Metropolitan of the newly conquered city of Kazan. During the following two decades, he gained renown for a number of Muslim Volga Tatars converted to Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nIn 1606, Hermogenes was summoned by False Dmitry I to take part in the Senate recently instituted in Moscow. There he learnt about the tsar's design to marry a Roman Catholic woman, Marina Mniszech, and firmly declared against such an alliance. At that he was exiled from the capital, only to return with great honours several months later, when the false tsar had been deposed, and Patriarch Ignatius followed suit.\n\nThe new tsar, Vasily IV, helped Hermogenes to become Patriarch of Moscow and all the Rus': Metropolitan Hermogenes was elected to the primatial See, and on July 3, 1606 he was installed as Patriarch by the assembly of the holy hierarchs at Moscow's Dormition cathedral. Metropolitan Isidore handed the Patriarch the staff of the holy hierarch Peter, and the Tsar gave as a gift to the new Patriarch a panagia, embellished with precious stones, a white klobuk and staff. In the ancient manner, Patriarch Hermogenes made his entrance riding upon a donkey. During Vasily's reign, Hermogenes generally supported the tsar's efforts to pacify the country and anathemized Ivan Bolotnikov and his army. \n\nWhen Vasily was dethroned and the Poles took hold of the Moscow Kremlin, Hermogenes staunchly opposed their plans to put Wladyslaw IV on the Russian throne, unless he converted to Orthodoxy. Despite knife threats from some of the boyars, he refused to sign any petitions to the Polish king, thus preventing Wladyslaw from coronation.\n\nIn December 1610 Hermogenes distributed letters to various Russian towns, urging the populace to rise against the Poles. When the volunteer army under Prokopy Lyapunov finally approached Moscow, he defied the Polish exhortations to anathemize the army. Despite being threatened with death penalty, he cursed the Roman Catholics and showed support for Lyapunov. After that, he was arrested and thrown into the Chudov Monastery. There he heard about the new volunteer army, mustered by Kuzma Minin and commanded by Prince Pozharsky, and blessed them both. Thereupon the patriarch was beaten and starved to death.\n\nThe body of Hermogenes was buried in the Chudov monastery, but in 1654 was transferred to the Moscow Dormition cathedral. The purported relics of Patriarch Germogen were accidentally found in one of the crypts of the Chudov Monastery during the 1913 repair works. In connection with the Romanov Dynasty Tercentenary, celebrated that same year, he was canonized as a hieromartyr and transferred to the nearby Dormition Cathedral.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church commemorates him on February 17, the day of his death, and May 12, the day of his recognized glorification.\n"}
{"id": "19570980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570980", "title": "Philip Augustus Knaut", "text": "Philip Augustus Knaut\n\nPhilip Augustus Knaut (1716 – December 28, 1781) was a German-born merchant and political figure in Nova Scotia. He was a member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly for Lunenburg from 1758 to 1781.\n\nHe was born in the Electorate of Saxony and first came to Nova Scotia with Edward Cornwallis in 1749. In 1750, he married Anna Grob. Knaut settled in Lunenburg in 1753, where he became one of the first shopkeepers there. He was justice of the peace, an officer in the militia and coroner; he also operated a sawmill. Benjamin Gerrish chose Knaut as his agent at Lunenburg for trading with the First Nations people. Knaut married Jane Brimner in 1781 after the death of his first wife. He died in office in Lunenburg. John Newton, collector of impost and excise at Halifax, who had married Knaut's daughter Catherine, inherited control of Knaut's estate.\n\nHis widow married John Bolman, who also served in the provincial assembly.\n"}
{"id": "49628551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49628551", "title": "Poly(adp-ribose) polymerase family member 14", "text": "Poly(adp-ribose) polymerase family member 14\n\nPoly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family member 14 is a protein that, in humans, is encoded by the PARP14 gene.\nPoly(ADP-ribosyl)ation is an immediate DNA damage-dependent post-translational modification of histones and other nuclear proteins that contributes to the survival of injured proliferating cells. PARP14 belongs to the superfamily of enzymes that perform this modification (Ame et al., 2004 [PubMed 15273990]).\n"}
{"id": "40516236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40516236", "title": "Pou (video game)", "text": "Pou (video game)\n\nPou is a virtual pet game for BlackBerry 10, iOS and Android developed and published by Paul Salameh (listed as Zakeh on the Google Play Store). It features a rounded, triangular alien character whose default color is brown. In the game the character can be fed, cleaned, exercised, suited, and put to sleep. There are also mini games within the app and coins can be earned to purchase costumes, decorations, and modifications of the game environment by playing the mini game or by reaching the achievements. It is somewhat similar to Tamagotchi, a fad game that required caring for a simulated creature. It can also interact with other Pous by visiting them when the game is connected to the internet or play games with other Pous as opponent via selected mini games which as Pou-vs-Pou (PvP) capability the game connectivity is either Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or even via Internet. It has user account in order to save and back-up the game progress state, in case the device is cleared. The last game progress can be resumed by logging in the user's account. The user can also transfer Pou from one device to another regardless of platform by logging out his/her account from the device and logging into other device; however the application version must be same between the two devices. In 2014, multilingual support was added.\n\nWith the success of the game, it has been copied using the name Mou on Windows Phone.\n\n"}
{"id": "30856719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30856719", "title": "Professor Hamilton", "text": "Professor Hamilton\n\nProfessor Emil Hamilton is a fictional comic book character appearing in books published by DC Comics, usually as a supporting character in stories featuring Superman.\n\nCreated by writer Marv Wolfman and artist Jerry Ordway, Professor Emil Hamilton first appeared in \"Adventures of Superman\" #424 (January 1987). His depictions in various incarnations range from that of a trusted ally to Superman and his colleagues to one who is cautious and mistrustful of Superman and his power, to an unambiguous villain. The character was named after Edmond Hamilton, who wrote stories about Superman and other characters from the 1940s to the 1960s.\n\nEmil Hamilton first appeared in \"Adventures of Superman\" #424 (January 1987), as an apparent villain, using his gadgets to attack Superman in an attempt to gain funding by proving that they worked. A former employee of S.T.A.R. Labs and the US Government, it transpired he had been driven insane when all his research was bought up by Lex Luthor, who took credit for the inventions. He was placed in a mental health facility and responded well to treatment. On his release, he set up a laboratory in Suicide Slum and quickly became Superman's \"scientific advisor\", eking out a general living as a technical consultant. He was responsible for creating many devices that aided Superman, including the Phantom Zone Projector and early Superman Robots, as well as helping Superman during such problems as the 'Krisis of the Krimson Kryptonite', when red kryptonite created by Mister Mxyzptlk shut down Superman's powers; until Superman's powers were restored, Hamilton provided him with various machinery such as a force field belt and an armoured suit to allow him to continue as a hero. Later, another force field belt Emil provides allows Superman to get around the power-blocking talents of the artificial life forms 'Psi-Phon' and 'Dreadnaught'.\n\nEmil's first time turning evil is when the immortal 'Mister Z' brainwashes him into assisting in an attack on Superman.\n\nLater, Superman is fighting the alien monster Doomsday. Working with Bibbo, another ally of the Man of Steel, Emil sets up a powerful laser and scores a direct strike on the monster. It does little to stop it. The two combatants seemingly fall dead and Emil creates a CPR unit for the hero. Bibbo is injured while using it and Hamilton takes over. Their efforts fail and Superman is declared dead. This failure causes feelings of intense guilt that not even Hamilton's long-term female friend Mildred Krantz can help him overcome. After the hero's return, Emil helps in the investigation of a Superman 'corpse duplicate'. He lost an arm during the \"Fall of Metropolis\" storyline, but replaced it with a self-designed cybernetic prosthesis.\n\nHe also provided Superboy with the visor that duplicated Superman's vision powers (x-ray and heat vision). This helps Superboy get a start on a heroic career in Hawaii. Hamilton would also enjoy time in that state as well. He spends time with Superman, assisting him in restoring in Fortress of Solitude and saving the lives of the citizens of the Bottle City of Kandor.\n\nMany years later, when John Henry Irons returned to Metropolis, just prior to the B13 Event, Hamilton felt he was being sidelined, as Superman now had access to a scientific genius who was also a fellow superhero. He disappeared during the B13 Event when Metropolis was transformed into a future version of itself.\n\nHe eventually resurfaced as the Overmind, the leader of a cyberpunk gang plotting the return of Brainiac 13. He claimed, however, that the B13-technology in his prosthetic arm was controlling his actions. Presumably this claim held some truth, as he later returned to his role as Superman's advisor using his innate understanding of the futuristic technology now available to him.\n\nHamilton, together with several other scientific geniuses and robotic beings (Automan, Brainstorm, Doctor Cyber, Ford, and Rosie the Riveter), was for a brief period part of the composite cybernetic being called Enginehead. However (if this story is still canon), the being seems to have been divided into the individual personalities again shortly after the events of the series.\n\nIn a 2005 storyline it was revealed that Hamilton was, in fact, the villain named Ruin, who had been targeting Superman's loved ones. Ruin claimed to have discovered that Superman was sucking the sun dry of its solar energy, and that, in 4.5 billion years, it would mean the end of life on Earth. The identity of Ruin had been kept a mystery, until it seemed that Clark's friend, and former President of the United States, Pete Ross was Ruin. Pete Ross claimed innocence, but he became even more suspect when he escaped from custody. It turned out that it had been Hamilton who had framed Ross and kidnapped him again from prison. Hamilton then confronted and revealed himself to Superman, seemingly killing the 5th dimension imp Mister Mxyzptlk in the process when he tried to save Superman. Superman defeated the insane Hamilton and saved Pete, Lana Lang, and their child. Superman later cleared Ross' name and reputation, and Hamilton was apparently imprisoned.\n\nDuring the events chronicled in the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, Ruin was one of many superhuman criminals who joined the villainous Society organized by Alexander Luthor Jr..\n\nThe pre-\"Flashpoint\" version of Emil Hamilton appears during the 2015 \"Convergence\" storyline. He has seemingly reformed, having made a home in the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Gotham City on the planet Telos, and repaired his friendship with Jimmy Olsen. Emil spent time rebuilding the Whiz Wagon, a flying, multi-purpose vehicle, as self-imposed reformation therapy.\n\nEmil Hamilton is a normal human being and thus, has no inherent super powers, though he is a brilliant scientist and inventor, having designed and built devices such as a force-field generator. However, as Ruin he dons a \"power suit.\" The suit allows Ruin to take advantage of his knowledge of Superman's weaknesses. Powerful blasts of Kryptonian red sunlight can be fired from the suit, which essentially sap Superman of all his powers. Also, Ruin is able to transport himself to the Phantom Zone (though at a detriment to his health), and reemerge anywhere, effectively allowing him to teleport. If the suit is forcibly removed from Hamilton's body, it self-destructs with a massive force, apparently enough to destroy a small city, although enough time elapsed between the removal and the explosion for Superman to get it to a safe distance using his superspeed.\n\nEmil has designed various prosthetic arms with unusual abilities, including one that acted as a sunscreen dispenser.\n\nProfessor Hamilton made an appearance in the \"Elseworlds\" tale, \"\". In this story, Hamilton still operates S.T.A.R. labs, but it is a secret-alien research facility in Smallville, Kansas that includes various heroes and villains who have been publicly identified as aliens to increase paranoia among the population (it is unclear if Hamilton is a willing part of the propaganda program or genuinely believes the idea that metahumans are alien invaders). Hamilton also appeared in \"\", featuring Batgirl and Supergirl, having previously worked with Lex Luthor to create a new solar battery only to be disgraced when he tried to reveal the truth about the project (it actually uses the corpse of the infant Kal-El as a power source). He also appears in the \"Smallville\" Season Eleven comic, a continuation of the TV series.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7373844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7373844", "title": "Robotman (Cliff Steele)", "text": "Robotman (Cliff Steele)\n\nRobotman (Clifford \"Cliff\" Steele, called Automaton in first two appearances) is a fictional character, a cyborg superhero in the . He is best known as a member of the Doom Patrol, being the only character to appear in every version of the team since he, and the team, were introduced together in June 1963.\n\nRobotman has appeared in numerous cartoon television shows and films. Robotman made his first live adaptation as a guest star on the \"Titans\" television series for the new DC streaming service played by Jake Michaels. He will be part of the main cast of the upcoming \"Doom Patrol\" television series on the DC streaming service. Riley Shanahan will take over from Michaels in Doom Patrol. Brendan Fraser provides the voice of Robotman and will portray Cliff Steele in the upcoming series.\n\nRobotman first appeared in \"My Greatest Adventure\" #80 (June 1963) and was created by Arnold Drake and Bruno Premiani. According to Drake, the issue's co-writer Bob Haney was not brought on to the project until after Robotman was created. He commented on the character's original name, Automaton: \"That name was pretty stupid. I've been responsible for a lot of stupid things, but that was one of the stupidest, so, within two issues, I figured that out and changed his name to Robotman.\"\n\nRobotman was the only original member of the Doom Patrol to appear with the team's second incarnation, which debuted in \"Showcase\" #94-96 (Aug. 1977 - Jan. 1978). The reboot was accompanied by Robotman getting a new body, which was designed by artist Joe Staton at writer Paul Kupperberg's request. Kupperberg explained, \"I was looking to update the strip, I suppose, [and] wanted to put my mark on it. There was nothing wrong with the original body designed by Bruno Premiani. In fact, ain't no one come up with a better design. Like the team's roster, I should have left that alone, too.\" Staton said he patterned Robotman's new body after a young John Byrne's fanzine contribution (\"Contemporary Pictorial Literature\") of the robot character Rog-2000 \"as a joke\".\n\nRobotman is one of the founding members of the Doom Patrol, along with Negative Man and Elasti-Girl. He is unique for being the only character to appear in every version of the Doom Patrol.\n\nCliff Steele became Robotman, initially dubbed Automaton, after the daredevil and race car driver was in an accident during the Indianapolis 500, destroying his body. Caulder subsequently placed Cliff's intact brain into a robotic body. After the operation, Cliff suffered from frequent depression because he viewed himself as less than human. A background serial in \"Doom Patrol\" #s 100, 101, 103 & 105 (December 1965 – August 1966, within 30 months of his introduction) retconned that Caulder made a mistake in the operation, causing Steele to go on a rampage, which Caulder corrected when he recruited Steele for the Patrol.\n\nSales of \"Doom Patrol\" had waned, and the creative team chose to kill off the entire team, including Robotman, in the final issue, \"Doom Patrol\" #121 (September–October 1968). The Doom Patrol sacrificed their lives to Madame Rouge and General Zahl (who pushed the actual kill button) to save the small fishing village of Codsville, Maine.\n\nIn \"Showcase\" #94 (Sept. 1977), it was revealed that Cliff's brain had survived and that Will Magnus, the robotics expert who created the Metal Men, had recovered Cliff's brain and built him a new body. Cliff then joined a new Doom Patrol headed by a woman claiming to be Niles Caulder's wife, Arani. Refusing to believe that Niles was dead, she formed this new team to search for him and took his place as leader, calling herself Celsius, due to her heat-and-cold-based powers.\n\nRobotman's origin remained largely the same as his pre-Crisis origin save for the fact that it was revealed that Niles Caulder) had caused the accident that destroyed Cliff Steele's body. Cliff Steel was born in Brooklyn .\n\nThis team was eventually almost all killed in action, with Cliff voluntarily committing himself to an asylum in \"Doom Patrol\" (Vol. 2) #19 (Feb. 1989), having fallen into a state of depression due to his condition and the loss of his teammates. In particular, he was angry about being in a metal body and unable to enjoy the feeling and senses that humans take for granted. Caulder sent Magnus round to try to help Cliff. Magnus introduced him to a person with \"worse problems than [his]\": a woman called Crazy Jane. Cliff became Jane’s guardian, eventually falling in love with her. Near the end of Grant Morrison's creative run on the title, Robotman’s human brain was revealed to have been replaced with a CPU, making him a robot in reality.\n\nIn Rachel Pollack's creative run, Cliff's artificial brain began to malfunction so Dorothy Spinner's Imaginary Friends \"rebuilt\" Cliff's old brain.\n\nCliff later met and began a relationship with a bisexual, transgender woman named Kate Godwin. At one point, Kate and Cliff merged and shared his memories.\n\nIn the Doom Patrol's Blackest Night tie-in storyline, Robotman and Negative Man are attacked by Negative Woman, who has been revived as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. While they try to fight off their former comrade, Cliff is approached by his own brainless corpse, which has also been revived as a Black Lantern.\nCliff correctly surmises that the ring powers his corpse, but finds removing it only causes a new body to regenerate instead. He and Negative Man trick the Black Lanterns into entering a warp gate to a JLA checkpoint then try to put the incident behind them.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, a different version of the character debuted in the \"My Greatest Adventure\" miniseries in October 2011, written by Matt Kindt. This version of Cliff Steele is an adventurer and daredevil who agrees to be injected with experimental nanomachines designed to improve and repair his body. When he is involved in a fatal car crash during a high-speed race, the nanomachines respond by creating a robotic body in order to encase and protect his still living brain. Though he is initially distraught over his condition, the nanomachines prevent him from being able to kill himself. After coming to terms with his new body, he becomes a freelance hero, assisted by a woman named Maddy, who was involved in the nanomachine project and blames herself for Cliff's condition.\n\nCliff has since re-appeared as a supporting character in the Metal Men comic featured in the Legends of Tomorrow anthology.\n\nIn the \"DC Rebirth\" reboot, Cliff has reappeared as a member of the latest incarnation of the Doom Patrol, in the iteration both his origin and romance with Crazy Jane return. When the universe was reset after the events of \"Milk Wars\", Cliff regained his human body.\n\nCliff's original mechanical body possessed superhuman strength, speed, and endurance. It was also equipped with electromagnetic feet that enabled him to scale metal walls, heating coils in his hands that enabled him to melt metals, an oxygen tank that could sustain his brain in an emergency, and a video communicator strapped to his chest that allowed Caulder to maintain contact with the team in the field, complete with visual information. Later bodies have featured various other functions, such as tools and weapons systems.\n\nIn the early comics, Cliff boasted of superior sight and hearing, though at the start of Grant Morrison's run, he complained of the crudity of mechanical senses as compared to human ones.\n\nThe post-reboot version of Cliff's robotic body is nanomachine based, allowing him to change its shape and abilities when needed. In addition, the nanomachines allow his body to repair itself from even the most severe damage. He is capable of flight, as well as underwater travel. His body boasts a wide array of sensors as well as greatly enhanced senses, and is able to recharge itself by consuming and processing organic material.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43029743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43029743", "title": "Seyfi Arkan", "text": "Seyfi Arkan\n\nAbdurrahman Seyfettin Arkan, Seyfi Nasih (1903 – 15 July 1966) was a Turkish architect, the personal architect of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. He was born in 1903 in Istanbul. He attended Kadikoy French School and Galatasaray High School. He was first in his class under Vedat Tek in 1928, and later worked with Hans Poelzig in Germany. In 193 he designed the Glass Villa of Çankaya Köşkü, the President of Turkey's official residence, as well as Florya Atatürk Marine Mansion, a Bauhaus-style former residence of Atatürk and now a museum, in 1935.\n\nArkan was born in 1903 in Instanbul, Turkey. Following the completion of primary education in Kadikoy French School, received secondary education at Galatasaray High School. He began the architecture education in Sanayi-i Nefise Mektebi, the Academy of Fine Arts graduated from Vedat Tek Warehouse in 1928. After the received the degree in Canakkale Monument Competition, he was sent to the Europe to continue his education by the Ministry of National Education. He became one of the students of Hans Poelzig from 1929 to 1932, and he worked in his workshop. He researched about the field of school buildings workers' habitats and stadiums during his education process within Europe. Seyfi Arkan had come back to Turkey in 1933, and he started to work urbanism studies at Academy of fine arts as an instructor. Poelzing modern perspective on architecture and Berlin's socio-cultural structure influenced Arkan's architectural studies at the large extent. In addition, some of the most important factors which Arkan considered during his project are Turkey's economic and social condition during the 1930s and 1940s. Seyfi Arkan, was the winner of the Çankaya Hariciye Kosku contest which held in 1933. After that, he did many project as private architecture of Atatürk.\n\n"}
{"id": "40584913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40584913", "title": "Slaughtered Ox", "text": "Slaughtered Ox\n\nSlaughtered Ox, also known as Flayed Ox, Side of Beef, or Carcass of Beef, is a 1655 oil on beech panel still life painting by Rembrandt. It has been in the collection of the Louvre in Paris since 1857. A similar painting is in Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum, Glasgow, possibly by Rembrandt himself but probably by one of his pupils, perhaps Fabritius. Other similar paintings by Rembrandt or more likely his circle are held by museums in Budapest and Philadelphia. \n\nThe work follows in a tradition of artworks showing butchery, for example Pieter Aertsen's \"A Meat Stall with the Holy Family Giving Alms\" (1551) and Annibale Carracci's \"Butcher's Shop\" (c. 1583), and perhaps more specifically Joachim Beuckelaer's \"\" (1563). Rembrandt made a drawing of a similar scene c. 1635. Another pre-1655 painting of a slaughtered ox (the example in Edinburgh, now attributed to Rembrandt's circle but formerly to Rembrandt) was perhaps inspired by a lost earlier work by Rembrandt himself. In northern Europe, November was traditionally the time for slaughtering livestock, before winter made feed difficult to find. \n\nThe painting measures , and is signed and dated \"Rembrandt f. 1655\". It shows the butchered carcass of a bull or an ox, hanging in a wooden building, possibly a stable or lean-to shed. The carcass is suspended by its two rear legs, which are tied by ropes to a wooden crossbeam. The animal has been decapitated and flayed of skin and hair, the chest cavity has been stretched open and the internal organs removed, revealing a mass of flesh, fat, connective tissue, joints, bones, and ribs. The carcass is carefully coloured, and given texture by impasto. In the background, a woman appears behind a half-open door, lifting the painting from still life into a genre painting, a scene of everyday life. It is sometimes considered a vanitas or memento mori; some commentators make references to the killing of the fatted calf in the biblical story of the Prodigal Son, others directly to the Crucifixion of Jesus.\n\nThe painting was possibly owned by Christoffel Hirschvogel in 1661. It was viewed by Joshua Reynolds in the collection of Pieter Locquet in Amsterdam in 1781, and later owned by Louis Viardot, who sold it to the Louvre in 1857 for 5,000 francs.\n\nThe work's muscular depiction inspired Honoré Daumier, Eugène Delacroix, a series of works by Chaim Soutine, and Francis Bacon. Most particularly, Bacon's \"Figure with Meat\" depicts Pope Innocent X, as painted by Velazquez, accompanied by ghostly echoes of the carcass from Rembrandt's painting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2600454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2600454", "title": "Swarm (comics)", "text": "Swarm (comics)\n\nSwarm (Fritz von Meyer) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character has been depicted as a former Nazi sympathizer and has been mainly featured as an enemy of Spider-Man. His entire body is composed of bees surrounding his skeleton.\n\nSwarm first appeared in \"Champions\" #14 (July 1977). He was created by Bill Mantlo and John Byrne.\n\nFritz von Meyer was born in Leipzig, Germany and became one of Adolf Hitler's top scientists. Escaping capture after World War II, he became a beekeeper or apiarist in South America and discovered a colony of mutated bees. Intrigued by their intelligence and passive nature, von Meyer attempted to enslave the queen bee but failed and the bees devoured him, leaving only his skeleton. The bees' unique qualities caused his consciousness to be absorbed into them, allowing von Meyer to manipulate the hive to do his will, although some of his skeletal remains are inside the swarm itself. His consciousness merged with the hive to the extent that they are one being, calling himself/themselves \"Swarm\".\n\nSwarm battled the Champions. After being defeated, Swarm resurfaced to battle the original Spider-Man (Peter Parker). In the first of many fights, Spider-Man prevailed against him by dosing his own costume in a new type of insecticide that hurt the bees if they got too close to the web-slinger. Swarm lost his/their skeleton in this battle, but returned to fight again (no longer having the skeleton but still possessing von Meyer's consciousness), first teaming with Kraven the Hunter against Iceman and Firestar, then against Spider-Man, but feedback from a weapon fired by the Rhino caused Swarm's bee body to disperse temporarily.\n\nSwarm next appears when a Super-Collider from Rand Industries gets activated and called his/their attention. Swarm decided mankind should be exterminated so insects can rule the world. Doctor Druid convinced Swarm that mankind will exterminate themselves and the age of insects can begin. Eventually, Swarm was tired of waiting and returned to New York, after a psychic wave generated by Onslaught disrupted the psychic field that bound him and his bees together. He forced a group of scientists investigating energy fields to help him not only restore his original field, but expand it to grant him control of every bee on Earth. As New York City was invaded by bees, the second Spider-Man (Ben Reilly) tracked the bees to their destination and — taking advantage of the fact that the swarms' instinctive memory of Peter's use of Raid caused them to automatically flinch away from Spider-Man — infiltrated the building and contacted the scientists. By claiming that the scientists' equipment was having trouble broadcasting a sufficiently powerful signal through the dome of bees, Spider-Man was able to trick Swarm into allowing the construction of a device designed to negate the vibrational frequency that the bees created to allow themselves to fly, presenting it as a means of boosting the power of the existing signal. With the bees now grounded, Spider-Man subsequently recovered the queen of Swarm's hive and left her in the care of the authorities, reasoning that without her, Swarm wouldn't be a future threat.\n\nNow back with an internal skeleton, Swarm felt that the fall of the criminal organization Pride allowed access to their former territory, specifically Los Angeles. However, he/they are defeated by the Runaways, protectors of the city, when his/their body of bees' mental link is disrupted by electrical blasts.\n\nSwarm regained control over his colony and joins the Chameleon's Exterminators to kill Spider-Man now that Parker's true identity is revealed. Swarm attacks Mary Jane Watson but Mary Jane sprays Swarm with water while a co-worker smashes Swarm's skeleton, but the bees reformed around the skeleton as Stark Industries bodyguards take him/them away.\n\nWhen Alyosha Kravinoff began collecting a zoo of animal themed superhumans, Swarm is in one of the cages. He fought Gargoyle as the Punisher passes them and escaped.\n\nSwarm next turns up in Denver, Colorado, having amassed enough bees to become giant-sized. The Thunderbolts face him/them unsuccessfully until Norman Osborn dispatches Venom devouring Swarm's bones. Osborn speculated this was, by now, a minor inconvenience that shouldn't prevent Swarm's return.\n\nNext, Swarm turns up in Buenos Aires having his intelligence again. He fought the Mighty Avengers by creating 'avatars' made of bees. Notably, the Avengers roster included the Wasp, Stature and Amadeus Cho. Stature placed an inhibitor collar on the queen bees which caused Swarm's intelligence to somehow disperse.\n\nHe was briefly seen trying to launch an attack of the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning only to be almost instantly thwarted by the X-Men's , the Bamfs, and Doop.\n\nSwarm later formed his own incarnation of the Sinister Six with 8-Ball, Delilah, Killer Shrike, Melter and Squid. They attack Spider-Man and the students of the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. Swarm gets dispersed by Hellion which caused the other members to surrender.\n\nSwarm later attacked New York but was defeated by Squirrel Girl and her ally Koi Boi covering him with water and turning bags full of his constituent bees in to the police.\n\nSwarm later appeared as a member of the Hateful Hexad alongside Bearboarguy, Gibbon, Ox, Squid and White Rabbit. During the disastrous battle against Spider-Man and Deadpool, the battle is crashed by Itsy Bitsy.\n\nSwarm is a composite being of hundreds of thousands of bees driven by a human intelligence. He is technically intangible, as his body is merely an aggregate of tiny forms. He can fly through the air and assume any shape and size he desires. He can mentally influence the actions of other bees, the full range of which may extend over hundreds of yards in radius. At first, Swarm seemed capable of only controlling other bees, but he has exhibited the ability to communicate/control other insects as well. Fritz von Meyer's skeleton, the focal point of his consciousness, remained behind as his only remains until being devoured by Venom.\n\nIn the second issue of the Spider-Man line of \"Marvel Fairy Tales\" (an adaptation of the legend of Anansi), an alternate version of Swarm appears as the stories' main villain: the Bee Spirit.\n\nSwarm recently appeared and fought Spider-Man in \"Marvel Adventures\". He/they supposedly wanted to take over the world (or at least kill a few jocks), but it looked like he/they just wanted some ice cream.\n\nSyrian female mutant Petra Laskov initially appears as the Ultimate Marvel equivalent of Swarm.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn August 2009, \"TIME\" listed Swarm as one of the \"Top 10 Oddest Marvel Characters\".\n\nSwarm was ranked #29 on a listing of Marvel Comics' monster characters in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "12545016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12545016", "title": "The Eagle with Two Heads", "text": "The Eagle with Two Heads\n\nThe Eagle with Two Heads (French title L'Aigle à deux têtes) is a French film directed by Jean Cocteau released in 1948. It was adapted from his own play \"L'Aigle à deux têtes\" which was first staged in 1946, and it retained the principal actors from the first Paris production.\n\nOn the 10th anniversary of the assassination of the king, his reclusive widow, the Queen, arrives to spend the night at the castle of Krantz. Stanislas, a young anarchist poet who seeks to assassinate her, enters her room, wounded; he looks exactly like the dead king, and the Queen shelters him instead of handing him over to the police. She sees him as the welcome embodiment of her own death, calling him Azrael (the angel of death). An ambiguous love develops between them, uniting them in a bid to outwit the machinations of the court politicians, represented by the Comte de Foëhn, the chief of police, and Édith de Berg, the Queen's companion. In order to remain true to their ideals and to each other, the Queen and Stanislas have to play their parts in a bizarre private tragedy, which the world will never understand.\n\n\nCocteau's play was produced in Paris in 1946 and 1947, and his decision to make a prompt adaptation for the cinema allowed him to retain the principal actors who had enjoyed personal successes with their roles, especially Edwige Feuillère and Jean Marais. Cocteau declared his intention of following the three-act structure of the play closely, citing his admiration of the methods of Ernst Lubitsch, but he opened out some of the scenes into a wider variety of locations. Filming began in October 1947 at the Château de Vizille, and further shots were filmed at the Studio d'Épinay on the outskirts of Paris.\n\nChristian Bérard supervised the art direction, and the sumptuous sets and costumes (executed by Georges Wakhévitch and Marcel Escoffier respectively) evoked a royal palace in an imaginary kingdom of 19th century middle-Europe. Georges Auric expanded the music which he had written for the stage production into a full score for the film.\n\nThe film was released in Paris in September 1948. Its reception among French critics was mixed. It was appreciated for the sumptuous quality of its spectacle and for the elevated performances of its actors. Others however felt that its artificiality belonged to another age and another medium, and that Cocteau had not sufficiently emancipated his film from its theatrical origins.\n\nWhen the film was shown in New York in 1948 and in London in 1949, the reviewers of both \"The New York Times\" and \"The Times\" shared a similar perplexity about the film's meaning and purpose. The film has in general not enjoyed the same attention as the others which Cocteau directed in the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "54374903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54374903", "title": "Tomigusuku Seiryō", "text": "Tomigusuku Seiryō\n\n, also known by his Chinese style name , was a bureaucrat of the Ryukyu Kingdom.\n\nTomigusuku Seiryō was the sixth head of an aristocrat family called Mō-shi Tomigusuku Dunchi (). He was the eldest son of Tomigusuku Seizoku.\n\nTomigusuku was elected as a member of \"Sanshikan\" in 1627. King Shō Hō dispatched Prince Chatan Chōshū (, also known as Shō Kei ) and him in 1638 to celebrate Shimazu Mitsuhisa succeeded as \"daimyō\" of Satsuma. Prince Chatan returned to Ryukyu in the next year, but Tomigusuku remained in Satsuma to handle official business. He sailed back to Ryukyu in 1642 but his ship was shipwrecked near Tokunoshima. His body was not found so he had no grave.\n"}
{"id": "45146618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45146618", "title": "Traian Brăileanu", "text": "Traian Brăileanu\n\nTraian Brăileanu or Brăilean (September 14, 1882 – October 3, 1947) was an Austro-Hungarian-born Romanian sociologist and politician. A native of the Bukovina region, he attended Czernowitz University, where he studied philosophy and classical languages, subsequently earning a doctorate. Ending up as a translator in Vienna, he fought for Austria during World War I. At the conclusion of hostilities, returned to the renamed Cernăuți, now part of Greater Romania. There, he soon became a professor of sociology, leading a \"Cernăuți School\" of academics during the interwar period.\n\nMeanwhile, he was involved in nationalist politics, supporting Alexandru Averescu, Nicolae Iorga and, ultimately, the extremist Iron Guard, of which he was among the most prominent intellectual backers. A theoretician of organicism, corporatism, and antisemitism, he inspired the creation of \"Iconar\", a literary society, and founded the review \"Însemnări Sociologice\". He was elected to the Romanian Senate in 1937, and reached the apex of his political career during the short-lived National Legionary State of 1940–1941. He served as Education and Arts Minister under this regime, targeting the country's Jewish community and his various political opponents. In the wake of the Legionnaires' rebellion, he was arrested, tried and acquitted, but later arrested again and interned.\n\nFreed yet again in 1944, he was placed under house arrest following the King Michael Coup that August, and, increasingly ill with ulcers, was tried before one of the Romanian People's Tribunals in 1946. Given a twenty-year sentence, he died the following autumn at Aiud prison, shortly before the establishment of a communist regime that suppressed his publications for the more than four decades of its existence.\n\nBorn in Bilca, Suceava County, a village located in Austrian-ruled Bukovina not far from Rădăuți, Brăileanu was the ninth of twelve siblings. His father Gheorghe (1839–1902) was the director of the local primary school for at least forty years. Gheorghe's father Ioan, born in 1807, had been a simple peasant, but two of his sons became teachers, and the third a Romanian Orthodox priest. Traian's mother, Maria (\"née\" Polonic) was the daughter of a shoemaker from Suceava, and married his father in 1865. The first serious tragedy in his life came when his sister Ilenuța died, leaving the entire family despondent. Another two beloved siblings died of diphtheria in late 1893, leaving him a mature individual at an early age. His mother predeceased his father, so that both parents had died by the time he was twenty. The young Traian was a voracious reader, his interests including classical literature, German literature, other European literatures in German translation, Romanian literature and Romanian history, including Alexandru Dimitrie Xenopol's \"Istoria românilor\". He was attached to his brother Constantin, who settled in the Romanian Old Kingdom, which he represented as consul at Bitola and Thessaloniki; an employee of the Romanian Foreign Ministry, his son was killed in action during World War I.\n\nBrăileanu attended three grades of primary school in his native village, followed by a fourth grade in 1892–1893 at Rădăuți, where he and a number of Romanian classmates spent the year perfecting their German and preparing for admission to the local German High School. He passed the entrance examination easily, entering the school in the autumn of 1893. German was the language of instruction; Latin and Greek the principal subjects. Upon graduation in 1901, he was fluent in all three. Entering Czernowitz University, he took courses in philosophy and classical philology, the subjects of his degree. His professors included Richard Wahle and Ion G. Sbiera. Initially, he shared a rented room with two older sisters of his, who were attending a normal school. In late 1902, after starting his second year of university, he went to the Romanian capital Bucharest to bury his father, who had sought medical treatment there.\n\nAs a student, he was associated with \"Societatea Academică Junimea\", a Romanian youth movement. In December 1901, already a member of the local chapter, he was selected as editor-in-chief of its satirical-humorous newsletter. Under his aegis it appeared bimonthly, and some issues were written entirely by Brăileanu. In 1904, he was named president of the society's literary section. In this capacity, together with Ion Nistor and George Tofan, he founded \"Junimea Literară\", a literary journal. There, he published a short story, a series of humorous sketches and several poems. The magazine had a nationalist and \"Sămănătorist\" agenda, and, according to Nistor, sought to counterbalance Austria's \"hatred and contempt for all things [Romanian]\". Another member, Romulus Cândea, described the society and its magazine as preservers of \"the nationalist flame\" and \"the Romanianist line\".\n\nUpon graduation, Brăileanu became a teacher at a German-language high school in Czernowitz, but, not finding the daily routine suitable to his studies, left after completing the 1905–1906 academic year. He then performed his military service in the Austrian Army, first at Czernowitz and then at the officers' school in Lemberg. For a time, he held a series of low-paid jobs, including that of journalist. Around 1908, he was penning articles for various newspapers secretly run by Aurel Onciul, a controversial leader of the Democratic Peasants' Party. In November 1909, Brăileanu obtained a doctorate in philosophy \"magna cum laude\", his adviser being Wahle. The same year, he became engaged to Emilia Silion, of an old Bukovina family; the couple, who married in 1910, had three sons and a daughter.\n\nThanks to his elder brother, in 1909 he obtained a position as translator at the Romanian Legation in Vienna, where he remained until 1914. During this period, he took courses at the University of Vienna and undertook research at its library. In 1912, he published a work of epistemology, followed by one on ethics (\"Die Grundlegung zu einer Wissenschaft der Ethik\") in 1919. During that interval, he became especially interested in the work of Vasile Conta, a 19th-century metaphyisician and political thinker. Writing in 1915, Ana Conta Kernbach identified Brăileanu as one of \"the few young men who are researching [Conta's] work\".\n\nUpon the outbreak of World War I, Brăileanu was drafted into the Austrian Army. Wounded, he was hospitalized in Bohemia, then moved to Lemberg with his regiment, after which he returned to Vienna. Meanwhile, his wife and the two children had taken refuge in Siret and then in Suceava, later returning to Austria. The union of Bukovina with Romania occurred at the end of World War I, and he immediately left Vienna for his native province, upon his older brother's urging.\n\nBeginning in 1919, Brăileanu was a librarian at his alma mater in what was now Cernăuți. He occupied this role until 1921, while in 1920, he became a lecturer. In 1924, he was named full professor at the department of sociology, ethics and politics. As an academic, his objective was to write survey texts of sociology, then ethics and finally politics. His introduction to sociology, published in 1923, was noted for on the sociological work of Conta, whom he identified as the founder of Romanian philosophy, and a personal guide. Following Conta, Brăileanu described a holistic social system of organic unity, grouping \"social tissues\", for which he eventually coined the term \"human community\". While ethics dealt with individual behavior, the community was the inextricable object of sociology. His first major success, this work drew positive reviews from, among others, Nicolae Iorga. Nicknamed \"Socrates\" by his admiring students, he was known to appreciate the term, considering the Greek philosopher a model.\n\nPolitically, he was, after 1919, involved in nationalist movements within the nascent Greater Romania. Brăileanu was at first a follower of Alexandru Averescu and his People's League, the Bukovina wing of which he led. He was involved in a lengthy dispute with a Nicolai Mitenco, after deposing him as editor of \"Țărănimea\" newspaper and \"purging\" the party of undesirables. In September 1924, with an article he published in \"Societatea de Mâine\", Brăileanu sought to identify the political problems of Greater Romania as they affected Bukovina's society. It suggested that, in the new political climate, \"entirely stunted by the supremacy of timely politics, or what we call politicking\", Romanian intellectuals were \"caving in to a despotic domination by the bankers\". He claimed that the Bukovina Jews were a parasitical class, 90% of whom \"made a living from the stupidity of the native population\", and justified economic antisemitism as a reaction to historical \"imbalance\". Nonetheless, he argued in favor of complete Jewish assimilation, including \"long processes of interbreeding\" with Romanians and a renewed social organization, based on the \"division of labor\" (with references to Conta and Émile Durkheim).\n\nBrăileanu eventually quit the People's League due to internal maneuvers that displeased him. Then, he entered the Democratic Nationalist Party of Iorga, whom he sincerely respected, and organized the party's Bukovina chapter from 1922 to 1925. He left this party too, unhappy with certain mergers it had undergone. Progressively, Brăileanu identified with the extreme right, claiming that the political mainstream took a \"soft attitude\" toward ethnic minorities. He migrated to the antisemitic National-Christian Defense League (LANC), which he left following a disagreement with its leader A. C. Cuza.\n\nIn 1926–1927, Brăileanu was member of the small political group called \"Statutory LANC\", which, as academic Lucian Butaru noted, was home to \"shady figures of the Romanian political and cultural life\", including Ion Zelea Codreanu and Corneliu Șumuleanu. At the time, he presided over a commission which investigated the clashes between Romanian authorities in Bukovina and Jewish students who had failed the Romanian Baccalaureate. He wrote an angry report, noting that Jews were ignorant of \"the history and geography of the fatherland\", and claiming that the riots were \"premeditated\". His antisemitic bias was brought up publicly by Mayer Ebner, the Jewish community spokesman, and may have led to Brăileanu's eventual dismissal. This came in July 1927, when the governing National Liberal Party reasserted control over his university.\n\nBrăileanu was one of the editors of Gheorghe Alexianu's \"Bucovina\", a review of law, sociology, and criminology, and contributed to Ion Petrovici's philosophical journal, \"Minerva\", with an essay on the sociology of Vilfredo Pareto. By then, his sociological work intertwined with his politics. As noted by historian Lucian Nastasă, he was one of the Romanian academics whose work exemplifies \"strongly nationalistic and extremist ideologies\". In his 1928 \"Politica\", considered the first Romanian volume of political theory, he suggested the establishment of a military dictatorship to consolidate the Romanian monarchy.\n\nBrăileanu most likely joined the Iron Guard (or \"Legionary Movement\"), a radical antisemitic and fascist group, upon its founding in 1927. He entered its senate in 1930, helping to consolidate the movement's intellectual prestige, and is seen by some as its most important theoretician after Nae Ionescu. Possibly radicalized under the influence of racial eugenicist Iordache Făcăoaru, Brăileanu's views on minority issues were recast into a scientifically racist sociological theory, which postulated that Jews were not capable of being integrated into any other nation. His support for racial determinism led him to conclude that \"the variation of social types\" was only a historical action of environmental and demographic factors, and that, in all other respects, individuals of the same race were identical.\n\nBrăileanu also founded the literary society \"Iconar\", noted for its strong xenophobia, which eventually divided itself into a far-right wing, under Brăileanu, and a more moderate one, supportive of the National Liberals. Writing in 1936 for Marta Rădulescu's \"Revista Mea\", he demanded a neo-traditionalist and nationalist revival in Romanian art, placed in service to \"the Church and the State\", and rejecting \"kike commercialism\". According to literary historian Rodica Ilie, his call to \"purge Romanian society of corrupting influences\" was a \"trope\" shared by extreme nationalists and communists of the day, the latter of whom targeted \"bourgeois seductions\" rather than \"Jewish spirituality\".\n\nThroughout the interval, Brăileanu carried on with his research, writing textbooks of sociology and ethics for the high school level. A translator from German and Greek, he was especially drawn to Immanuel Kant and Aristotle. Brăileanu's translation of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" appeared in 1930, being hailed by philosopher Tudor Vianu as one of the prime achievements of its era, but criticized by Ernest Bernea as \"confusing\" and \"fragmentary\". There followed more works on ethics (1935–1936) and the history of sociological doctrines (1936–1937). From 1931 to 1933, he was dean of the Philosophy and Letters Faculty. He had ties to foreign sociologists, and in 1937 became a member of the Columbia University-affiliated Academy of Political Science. In addition, from 1933 he was assistant professor in the history of philosophy department, replacing the deceased Vasile Gherasim. He was made a commander of the Order of the Crown in 1933.\n\nBrăileanu ultimately became the unchallenged leader of a sociological school at Cernăuți, akin to those led by Dimitrie Gusti at Bucharest, Virgil Bărbat at Cluj and Petre Andrei at Iași. During this time, he founded \"Însemnări Sociologice\" magazine. As noted by various historians, it should be seen as largely dedicated to supporting the Iron Guard platform. Brăileanu's articles there combined a condemnation of the multi-party system with the theory of \"Judaeo-communist revolution\", arguing that the former would inevitably lead to the latter, and proposed instead a corporate state headed by the Guard. Leon Volovici concludes that \"Însemnări Sociologice\" \"did not differ from Legionary propaganda\", with its ample references to \"the Internationale of the \"yids\"\", anti-Masonic lore, and calls for racial segregation (\"complete, biological and spiritual separation from the Jews\").\n\nBrăileanu himself proudly acknowledged that there was little difference between his Guardist credo and his sociological work, describing \"Însemnări Sociologice\" as providing \"Legionary doctrine\" with \"all the support of social science\". \"Doctrines\", he argued, always took precedence over scientific observation, since \"they determine the lives of individuals and peoples.\" Brăileanu's writings, including his articles in teachers' magazines, shifted toward developing a Romanian \"elite theory\" and the role of state pedagogy in cultivating a fresh political establishment. His idea of corporatism differed from that espoused by Mihail Manoilescu, arguing a strong dictatorship by an \"ascetic elite\", with a charismatic leader, could set up the Romanian corporations, but never the other way around. He saw his \"meritocratic aristocracy\" embodied in Ion Moța and the other five Iron Guard men who left as volunteers for the Spanish Civil War.\n\nInvoking the examples set by Italian fascism and Nazism, Brăileanu argued that educating the masses to accept leadership and social selection \"without a murmur\" was far more beneficial than perpetuating universal suffrage. In a June 1937 article for \"Buna Vestire\", he identified international fascism as the quintessential enemy of communism and Jewishness, and postulated that freedom was only possible within nationalism. Unlike other Guard intellectuals, he was skeptical of territorial expansionism, writing that, as Greater Romania, the Romanian state had reached its \"natural borders\" and economic self-sufficiency. His complaint was that the entity had not yet become a \"nation state\".\n\nLike the rest of the Guard, Brăileanu found himself in conflict with King Carol II and the political factions who supported him, leading to a series of violent clashes and retaliatory murders. In 1936, he was one of 50 \"nationalist luminaries\" invited at the Guard's student congress in Târgu Mureș. The event ended with mass arrests for conspiracy, during which time Brăileanu was asked to serve as the Guard's defense witness. According to one report, \"Însemnări Sociologice\" was banned in February 1937. The Guard itself was also outlawed, but reemerged under the guise of the \"Everything for the Country Party\". Although by then a secondary figure, cut off from the major political centers, Brăileanu was deeply involved in its creation, in recruiting youth, and in organizing charity campaigns, his activities closely monitored by the Romanian Police. He was particularly enthusiastic about the Guard's work-camp network, deeming them the \"formative school of the Legionary Romanian\". Brăileanu was still the inspiration behind \"Iconar\", described in police records as \"a camouflaged Legionary newspaper of the defunct Iron Guard\". Other magazines he edited included \"Cugetări\", \"Poporul\", \"Gazeta Poporului\" and \"Înălțarea\", the last at Sibiu between 1940 and 1941.\n\nBrăileanu was sent to the Romanian Senate following the general election of December 1937, having presented himself on Legionary lists for both Cernăuți and Câmpulung Moldovenesc. Nationally, the split vote resulted in minority rule by a LANC successor, the National Christian Party (PNC), with the king's endorsement. Writing in \"Însemnări Sociologice\" in January 1938, Brăileanu complained that the PNC's antisemitic program was incomplete, since it failed to target liberal democracy, \"that which has made kikes all-powerful\". The LANC, he noted, had been too moderate, \"demagogic and corrupt\"; the Iron Guard would need to reemerge and \"turn chaos to order\". He nevertheless displayed his and his party's loyalty toward the king, explaining for \"Buna Vestire\" that \"the monarch represents the supreme principle of order and the political hierarchy\".\n\nBrăileanu eventually lost his Senate seat the establishment of a single-party regime, the National Renaissance Front (FRN), in February 1938. He withdrew from political life, while his \"Iconar\" disciples sought a rapprochement with the FRN chapter in Ținutul Suceava. He focused on a synthesis of his sociological theory, with \"Teoria Comunității Omenești\" (\"The Theory of Human Community\"), published in 1939 by Editura Cugetarea (second edition 1941). The work also signified his distancing from both holism and the mainline, positivist, sociological school of Bucharest, turning to phenomenological sociology and pragmatism, with more or less explicit borrowings from Edmund Husserl and William James.\n\nDue to the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina in the summer of 1940, Brăileanu was obliged to flee his home, and his entire personal library was lost. He then entered the University of Bucharest as a professor. From his new home in Bucharest, Brăileanu was consulted by the FRN regime and Prime Minister Ion Gigurtu, helping them draft Romania's first set of antisemitic laws. A month later, the FRN dictatorship crumbled, and Carol II abdicated; the Guard seized the opportunity and proclaimed its National Legionary State, with Ion Antonescu as the \"Conducător\". Brăileanu took over two ministerial portfolios, fused into one: the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and the Ministry of the Arts. His deputy was a Bucharest sociologist, Traian Herseni. The staff he appointed also included other Guard affiliates: Făcăoaru, Haig Acterian, Vasile Băncilă, Dan Botta, Eugen Chirnoagă, Vladimir Dumitrescu, and Radu Gyr.\n\nReportedly, Brăileanu's appointment prefigured later conflicts between the Guard and Antonescu: the latter disliked Brăileanu's radicalism, but yielded to pressures from Horia Sima, the Guard Commander. After assuming office, Brăileanu ordered changes in his ministry, but upheld and expanded upon the Gigurtu laws, equating interwar democracy with \"the establishment of foreign and Kike rule\". On his orders, Jewish students were expelled from Romanian high schools, excepting only those who could present proof that they were the direct descendants of war veterans; he allowed for the creation of a private-run, fully segregated, Jewish educational system. This policy enlisted protests from Jewish community leaders such as Wilhelm Filderman and Alexandru Șafran. Their protests, which went unanswered, noted that Brăileanu's criteria for segregation were more intransigent than the Nuremberg Laws in Nazi Germany.\n\nBrăileanu similarly ordered the segregation of Jewish actors, who were sacked from all Romanian theaters, public or private, \"without restriction or exception\". They could only be employed by \"Jewish theaters\", which had to advertise their racial makeup, and could only perform in plays screened for \"anti-patriotic\" content. Speaking at the time, the minister intimated his goal of outlawing Judaism, and hinted at the possibility of destroying synagogues, finding that these were \"too many, if compared to the number of kikes.\" One other decree issued during his term banned Romanian pupils from purchasing schoolbooks from Jewish-owned businesses, while another dismissed eleven Jewish high school teachers.\n\nBrăileanu also went after one of his FRN predecessors, the left-wing sociologist Andrei, declaring him an undesirable, banned from teaching in all public schools. In October 1940, he countersigned the order to arrest Andrei, who was thus shamed into committing suicide. Brăileanu annoyed Antonescu by insisting on minute details of cultural and religious policy: he wanted to rename villages whose name still honored Ion G. Duca, demanded the removal of frescoes depicting Carol II, and also proposed to shut down the Bucharest Crematorium, which he saw as anti-Christian. According to various reports, his Ministry encouraged the display of propaganda material in high schools, allowing teachers to put up portraits of the Guard's assassinated founder, Corneliu Zelea Codreanu. The Guard was allowed to recruit young students, grouped into \"Cross Brotherhoods\"; teachers were prevented from interfering with their paramilitary activities, even when students skipped classes. Enlistment therein was facilitated by rumors that non-members would be barred from entering universities.\n\nBrăileanu's other decrees lifted academic freedom, allowing the Ministry to intervene in college policy, and prioritized the academic employment of people who, like himself, were known Guard members or had been jobless since the Soviet occupation. He disbanded the National Student Front, the sole student association established under the FRN, and lifted bans on other student associations. However, these were effectively centralized into the National Union of Christian Students, which answered directly to Brăileanu, and the Student Front property was handed over to the Guard. Creating \"review boards\" presided over by Herseni, Chirnoagă and Făcăoaru, Brăileanu also presided over the purge of former FRN men, Jews, and known leftists, and personally stripped George Călinescu, Iorgu Iordan and Bazil Munteanu of their university chairs. He also ordered the immediate pensioning of all teachers aged 65 and over. This measure was designed to hurt Iorga, who had emerged as a major adversary of the Guard.\n\nBrăileanu's tenure at the twin Ministries is described by historian Marian Ștefan as a \"vast program for the political influencing of both teaching body and youth.\" He was applauded by Sima as a \"doctrinaire of nationalism\" and \"one of the prime representatives of our race\". Co-opted on the Guard's executive committee, or \"Legionary Forum\", he was still particularly interested in the creation of a new Guardist elite. Unlike Sima, he saw in it a conservative rather than revolutionary force, lecturing on the topic and having his ideas reprinted in \"Universul\". He also attended to problems of school organization, took steps to enhance theological education, and envisaged a state-sponsored translation program of the classics. Like Sima and painter Alexandru Bassarab, he also promoted the ideal of a new \"Legionary art\", which advertised itself as the true representative of Romanian values. He described Codreanu as the national \"educationist\" and \"great reformer of our times\", and overall a \"holy torch\" of the Romanian people.\n\nTogether with Sima and Herseni, Brăileanu sought to establish full Guardist control over cultural institutes such as \"Accademia di Romania\", but their moves were vetoed by Antonescu, who favored a more conservative approach. Brăileanu had a tense relationship with another one of Antonescu's proteges, Sextil Pușcariu, who led the Romanian Institute in Berlin and had been given discretionary powers. Antonescu also asked Brăileanu to tone down his purge of academia, and the latter threatened with his resignation. Horrified by the Guard's assassinations of Iorga and Virgil Madgearu, in late November, he again tendered his resignation, but was persuaded to reverse his decision—allegedly, he agreed so that he could spare the country even greater chaos.\n\nThe Guard and Antonescu still clashed over issues of political control, until, in January 1941, tensions exploded as the Legionary rebellion. During these events, the \"Cross Brotherhoods\" were activated in various schools, and some of their members took up arms against Antonescu's more conservative faction. The university student corps was also highly active during the events, and later organized an underground movement against Antonescu. Within seven days, however, Antonescu had retaken control of the country and purged his government of Guardist ministers. Brăileanu's immediate successor was an apolitical figure, Radu R. Rosetti, who proceeded to undo the politicization of schools and universities. However, as Rosetti himself noted, the Ministry was in effect under Antonescu's direct control. Faced with ministerial suggestions for toning down the repression of Jews, Antonescu remained adamant that segregation was a valuable policy, and devised a system for its perpetuation.\n\nArrested during the counter-coup, Brăileanu was jailed in a former Bucharest barracks. He was sought after as an expert in Nazi Germany: in May, Ernst Krieck, the racial scientist, invited him over as a visiting scholar. Brăileanu was tried in June 1941 for \"corrupting the youth\" or \"encouraging dissent among the military\". After acting as his own attorney, he was acquitted of the more serious charge of treason, but sentenced to six months in jail for the lesser accusation. A nephew of his, Virgil Procopovici, who had been visibly active in the Guard, was also detained at that time. In December 1942, when rumors spread that Sima was preparing to return from exile with Nazi support, Brăileanu was re-arrested, alongside some 1,500 other Guard figures, and interned at Târgu Jiu. He arrived there together with his former subordinates Gyr and Petre P. Panaitescu, and found themselves cold-shouldered by left-wing inmates. One of these was journalist Zaharia Stancu, who made a point of noting that Brăileanu looked \"ill and profoundly miserable.\" Unusually, Brăileanu shared lodgings with a group of Jewish inmates such as Alexandru Albescu. Despite pleas from prominent members of the establishment, he was not released, whereas other detainees, including Gyr, left in February 1943.\n\nBrăileanu was again freed in the spring of 1944 and repeatedly offered a chance to emigrate, which he declined. The year 1941 marked the end of Brăileanu's teaching career; he was forced to retire following his acquittal. Meanwhile, he continued his studies from 1941 to 1945, especially working on translations. In 1944, the official publishing company, Casa Școalelor, issued his Romanian version of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\"—according to literary critic Adrian Marino, it was a \"failed attempt\", and \"downright impossible\". Philosopher Cristian Ducu also notes Brăileanu's inconsistent translation of the term \"ergon\", which results in \"grave errors at the conceptual level.\"\n\nFollowing the King Michael Coup of August 1944, General Nicolae Rădescu, soon to become prime minister, pointed to Brăileanu as among those guilty of the \"national disaster\" that had befallen the country. He was placed under house arrest, and was held under permanent watch in the room where he lay bedridden with a duodenal ulcer. In 1945, he was removed from his house, detained and taken to police headquarters. Hospitalized following a hemorrhage, he remained under medical care until his trial. This took place in May of the following year, when Brăileanu and Antonescu were among the 24 politicians brought before Romanian People's Tribunals, collectively charged with \"bringing disaster upon the country\". At the time, the Communist Party organ, \"Scînteia\", described Brăileanu as \"flushed out, disjointed, his baldness sowed with grey bristle hairs as on a worn-out brush, his mouth toothless, words emerging inconsistent, gelatinous\". As argued by political scientist Ruxandra Cesereanu, such portrayals meant to induce the notion that Brăileanu was already dead to the world, a \"living corpse\".\n\nBrăileanu was sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment; another official jailed at the same trial was Ion Petrovici, a successor of his at the Education Ministry. First held at Văcărești prison before being moved to Aiud prison, Brăileanu continued working on translations of Aristotle, as well as on a memoir covering the early part of his life. In 1947, he developed a severe ulcer and, gravely ill, was taken to the Brașov prison hospital. In June, a committee of doctors decided he did not require a hospital stay, and he was returned to Aiud. He died there, most likely on October 3. Shortly before, the prison doctor had refused to send him for an operation, and he was not allowed to access a package his relatives had sent. His family managed to bring the body to Bucharest, where he was buried at an Orthodox ceremony. Others who occupy the same gravesite include his wife, who lived until 1972, and his father.\n\nPublication and analysis of his works was entirely suppressed under the communist regime that followed his death. Some exceptions were made under the national communism of the 1980s, when Mihu Achim recovered him as a reference for \"national sociology\". By 1990, following the anticommunist Romanian Revolution, Brăileanu's works were again the object of public scrutiny. Controversially, sociologist Dan Dungaciu published a piece honoring Brăileanu and his theory of the elites in a May 1993 issue of \"Mișcarea\", the neo-fascist newspaper. In 1997, the Romanian Academy's sociological institute held a session dedicated to Brăileanu. His ancestral home in Bilca was reopened as a local museum.\n\nBrăileanu's one daughter was married to his assistant Leon Țopa (1912–1996). Late in his life, Țopa was interviewed by Dungaciu, arguing that Brăileanu should be understood as a sociologist, beyond his political commitments. Brăileanu's nephew Virgil Procopovici survived both his jailing under Antonescu and a renewed communist imprisonment from 1948, and, in 1999, reemerged as a legatee of the Iron Guard, republishing Guardist literature that he had kept hidden for the previous 50 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "683583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683583", "title": "Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation", "text": "Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation\n\nTranscutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. TENS, by definition, covers the complete range of transcutaneously applied currents used for nerve excitation although the term is often used with a more restrictive intent, namely to describe the kind of pulses produced by portable stimulators used to treat pain. The unit is usually connected to the skin using two or more electrodes. A typical battery-operated TENS unit is able to modulate pulse width, frequency and intensity. Generally TENS is applied at high frequency (>50 Hz) with an intensity below motor contraction (sensory intensity) or low frequency (<10 Hz) with an intensity that produces motor contraction. While the use of TENS has proved effective in clinical studies, there is controversy over which conditions the device should be used to treat.\n\nTENS devices available to the domestic market are used as a non-invasive nerve stimulation intended to reduce both acute and chronic pain. One review from 2007 felt that the evidence supports a benefit in chronic musculoskeletal pain Results from a task force on neck pain in 2008 found no clinically significant benefit to TENS for the treatment of neck pain when compared to a placebo treatment. A 2010 review did not find evidence to support the use of TENS for chronic low back pain. There is tentative evidence that it may be useful for painful diabetic neuropathy. As of 2015, the efficacy of TENS therapy for phantom limb pain is not known as no randomized controlled trials have been performed.\n\nIn principle, an adequate intensity of stimulation is necessary to achieve pain relief with TENS. An analysis of treatment fidelity (meaning that the delivery of TENS in a trial was in accordance with current clinical advice, such as using \"a strong but comfortable sensation\" and suitable, frequent treatment durations) showed that higher fidelity trials tended to have a positive outcome.\n\nA few studies have shown objective evidence that TENS may modulate or suppress pain signals in the brain. One used evoked cortical potentials to show that electric stimulation of peripheral A-beta sensory fibers reliably suppressed A-delta fiber nociceptive processing. Two other studies used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI): one showed that high-frequency TENS produced a decrease in pain-related cortical activations in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome, while the other showed that low-frequency TENS decreased shoulder impingement pain and modulated pain-induced activation in the brain.\n\nA head-mounted TENS device called Cefaly was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, on March 11, 2014, for the prevention of migraines. The Cefaly device was found effective in preventing migraine attacks in a randomized sham-controlled trial. This was the first TENS device which the FDA approved for pain prevention, as opposed to pain suppression.\n\nA study performed on healthy human subjects demonstrates that repeated application of TENS can create analgesic tolerance and reduce its efficacy.\n\nStudies have stated that TENS \"has been shown not to be effective in postoperative and labour pain.\"\n\nTENS has been extensively used in non-odontogenic orofacial pain relief. In addition, TENS and ultra low frequency-TENS (ULF-TENS) are commonly employed in diagnosis and treatment of temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD). Further clinical studies are required to determine its efficacy.\n\nElectrical stimulation for pain control was used in ancient Rome, 63 A.D. It was reported by Scribonius Largus that pain was relieved by standing on an electrical fish at the seashore. In the 16th through the 18th century various electrostatic devices were used for headache and other pains. Benjamin Franklin was a proponent of this method for pain relief. In the 19th century a device called the electreat, along with numerous other devices were used for pain control and cancer cures. Only the electreat survived into the 20th century, but was not portable, and had limited control of the stimulus. Development of modern TENS unit is generally credited to C. Norman Shealy.\n\nThe first modern, patient-wearable TENS was patented in the United States in 1974. It was initially used for testing the tolerance of chronic pain patients to electrical stimulation before implantation of electrodes in the spinal cord dorsal column. The electrodes were attached to an implanted receiver, which received its power from an antenna worn on the surface of the skin. Although intended only for testing tolerance to electrical stimulation, many of the patients said they received so much relief from the TENS itself that they never returned for the implant.\n\nA number of companies began manufacturing TENS units after the commercial success of the Medtronic device became known. The neurological division of Medtronic, founded by Don Maurer, Ed Schuck and Charles Ray, developed a number of applications for implanted electrical stimulation devices for treatment of epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, and other disorders of the nervous system.\n\nToday many people confuse TENS with electrical muscle stimulation (EMS). EMS and TENS devices look similar, with both using long electric lead wires and electrodes. TENS is for blocking pain, where EMS is for stimulating muscles.\n\nAs reported, TENS has different effects on the brain. A recent RCT shown that sensory ULF-TENS applied on the skin proximally to trigeminal nerve, reduced the effect of acute mental stress assessed by heart rate variability (HRV).\n\nThere are several anatomical locations where TENS electrodes are contraindicated:\n\nTENS used across an artificial cardiac pacemaker (or other indwelling stimulator, including across its leads) may cause interference and failure of the implanted device. Serious accidents have been recorded in cases when this principle was not observed. A 2009 review in this area suggests that electrotherapy, including TENS, \"are best avoided\" in patients with pacemakers or implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). They add that \"there is no consensus and it may be possible to safely deliver these modalities in a proper setting with device and patient monitoring\", and recommend further research. The review found several reports of ICDs administering inappropriate treatment due to interference with TENS devices, but notes that the reports on pacemakers are mixed: some non-programmable pacemakers were inhibited by TENS, but others were unaffected or auto-reprogrammed.\n\nThe use of TENS is likely to be less effective on areas of numb skin/decreased sensation due to nerve damage. It may also cause skin irritation due to the inability to feel currents until they are too high. There's an unknown level of risk when placing electrodes over an infection (possible spreading due to muscle contractions), but cross contamination with the electrodes themselves is of greater concern. TENS should also be used with caution in people with epilepsy or pregnant women; do not use over area of the uterus as the effects of electrical stimulation over the developing fetus are not known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "452071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452071", "title": "USS Grayling (SS-209)", "text": "USS Grayling (SS-209)\n\nUSS \"Grayling\" (SS-209), a \"Tambor\"-class submarine, was the fourth ship of the United States Navy to be named for the grayling.\n\nHer keel was laid down at the Portsmouth Navy Yard in Kittery, Maine on 15 December 1939. She was launched on 4 September 1940 sponsored by Mrs. Marion Barnes Bryant Leary wife of Rear Admiral Herbert F. Leary, and commissioned on 1 March 1941 with Lieutenant Commander Eliot Olsen in command.\n\nAfter conducting tests and sea trials, she was called upon 20 June 1941 to assist in the search for submarine \"O-9\" (SS-70), which had failed to surface after a practice dive off Isles of Shoals. \"O-9\" was subsequently discovered on the bottom, but rescue efforts failed; \"Grayling\" participated 22 June in the memorial services for those lost.\n\nJoining the Atlantic Fleet, \"Grayling\" sailed on shakedown cruise on 4 August to Morehead City, North Carolina, and St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, returning to Portsmouth on 29 August. After final acceptance, she departed 17 November, armed at Newport, Rhode Island, and sailed for duty with the Pacific Fleet. \"Grayling\" transited the Panama Canal on 3 December and moored at San Diego, California, on 10 December.\n\n\"Grayling\" sailed for Pearl Harbor on 17 December, arrived 24 December, and had the honor of being chosen for the Pacific Fleet change of command ceremony on 31 December 1941. The ceremony would normally have taken place on a battleship, but all the fleets battleships had been either sunk or damaged during the attack 3 weeks earlier. On that day, Admiral Chester Nimitz hoisted his flag aboard \"Grayling\" as Commander, Pacific Fleet and began the United States Navy's long fighting road back in the Pacific.\n\nAfter the ceremonies, \"Grayling\" stood out of Pearl Harbor on her first war patrol 5 January 1942. Cruising the Northern Gilbert Islands, \"Grayling\" failed to register a kill, but gained much in training and readiness, returning to Pearl Harbor on 7 March.\n\nHer second patrol, beginning 27 March, was more successful. Cruising off the coast of Japan itself, \"Grayling\" sank her first ship 13 April, sending the cargo freighter \"Ryujin Maru\" to the bottom. She returned to Hawaii on 16 May.\n\n\"Grayling\" returned to action in June as all available ships were pressed into service to oppose the Japanese advance on Midway Island. As part of Task Group 7.1, \"Grayling\" and her sister submarines were arranged in a fan-like reconnaissance deployment west of Midway, helping to provide knowledge of Japanese movements. During this deployment the \"Grayling\" was mistaken for a Japanese cruiser by Army Air Force B-17s which attacked her. A quick crash dive avoided damage.\n\nAs Naval planners established a submarine blockade of Truk in connection with the offensive in the Solomon Islands, \"Grayling\" began her third war patrol 14 July 1942 around the Japanese stronghold. She damaged a Japanese submarine tender 13 August, but was forced to return to Pearl Harbor 26 August by fuel leaks.\n\nAt Pearl Harbor, \"Grayling\" repaired and was fitted with surface radar, after which she began her fourth patrol on 19 October. Although attacked by gunfire and six separate depth charge runs by Japanese destroyers, \"Grayling\" succeeded 10 November in sinking a 4000-ton cargo ship southwest of Truk. She also destroyed an enemy schooner on 4 December before putting into Fremantle submarine base, Western Australia, 13 December.\n\nChanging her base of operations to Australia, \"Grayling\" stood out of Fremantle on 7 January 1943 on her fifth patrol, this time in Philippine waters. She sank cargo ship \"Ushio Maru\" west of Luzon on 26 January and damaged another Japanese ship the next day. After sinking a schooner on 24 February, \"Grayling\" returned to Fremantle.\n\n\"Grayling\" left Australian waters on 18 March on her sixth war patrol and cruised in the Tarakan area and the Verde Island Passage. There, she attacked and sank cargo ship \"Shanghai Maru\" on 9 April and damaged four other ships before returning to Fremantle on 25 April.\n\nHer seventh war patrol, commencing 18 May, took \"Grayling\" into the waters off northwest Borneo, where she damaged a freighter and two smaller ships before returning to her base 6 July.\n\nUnder the command of Lt. Cdr. Robert M. Brinker, \"Grayling\" began her eighth and last war patrol in July, 1943, from Fremantle. She made two visits to the coast of the Philippines, delivering supplies and equipment to guerrillas at Pucio Point, Pandan Bay, Panay, 31 July and 23 August 1943. Cruising in the Philippines area, \"Grayling\" recorded her last kill, the passenger-cargo \"Meizan Maru\" on 27 August in the Tablas Strait, but was not heard from again after 9 September. She was scheduled to make a radio report on 12 September, which she did not, and all attempts to contact her failed. \"Grayling\" was officially reported \"lost with all hands\" 30 September 1943.\n\nOn 27 August 1943, Japanese ships witnessed a torpedo attack, and the next day a surfaced submarine was seen, both in the Tablas Strait area, and then on 9 September a surfaced American submarine was seen inside Lingayen Gulf. All of these sightings correspond with \"Grayling\"'s orders to patrol the approaches to Manila. On 9 September 1943, Japanese passenger-cargo vessel \"Hokuan Maru\" reported a submarine in shallow water west of Luzon. The ship made a run over the area and “noted an impact with a submerged object.” No additional data are available.\n\nAssuming she survived this incident, no other recorded Japanese attacks could have sunk \"Grayling\". Her loss may have been operational or by an unrecorded attack. The only certainty, therefore, is that \"Grayling\" was lost between 9 September and 12 September 1943 either in Lingayen Gulf or along the approaches to Manila. ComTaskFor71 requested a transmission from \"Grayling\" on 12 September, but did not receive one.\n\n\"Grayling\" was credited with five major kills, totaling 20,575 tons. All but the first of \"Grayling\"'s eight war patrols were declared \"successful\". She received six battle stars for World War II service.\n"}
{"id": "19524898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19524898", "title": "Washington Death with Dignity Act", "text": "Washington Death with Dignity Act\n\nInitiative 1000 (I-1000) of 2008 established the U.S. state of Washington's Death with Dignity Act (RCW 70.245), which legalizes medical aid in dying with certain restrictions. Passage of this initiative made Washington the second U.S. state to permit some terminally ill patients to determine the time of their own death. The effort was headed by former Governor Booth Gardner.\n\nThe measure was approved in the November 4, 2008 general election. 1,715,219 votes (57.82%) were cast in favor, 1,251,255 votes during the united electorate (42.18%) against. There were 2,966,474 votes total. 30 of the state's 39 counties voted in favor of the initiative.\n\nIn 1991, the similar initiative 119 was rejected by Washington voters by a margin of 54 percent to 46 percent. I-119 would have allowed doctors to prescribe a lethal dosage of medication, and also to administer it if the terminally ill patient could not self-administer.\nUnlike that initiative, I-1000 requires the patient to ingest the medication unassisted.\n\nThe initiative is based on Oregon Measure 16, which Oregon voters passed in 1994 but was not implemented until 1997. At that time, Oregon was the only other state to have enacted similar legislation. In 2013, Vermont became the third state to enact similar legislation. In 2016, California became the fourth state to enact similar legislation. All states on the west coast now have similar legislation.\n\nThe official ballot summary for the measure, slightly amended following a February 2008 court challenge, is, \"This measure would permit terminally ill, competent, adult Washington residents medically predicted to die within six months to request and self-administer lethal medication prescribed by a physician. The measure requires two oral and one written request, two physicians to diagnose the patient and determine the patient is competent, a waiting period, and physician verification of an informed patient decision. Physicians, patients and others acting in good faith compliance would have criminal and civil immunity.\"\n\nProvisions in the law include:\n\n\nThe campaign was run by a coalition that includes former Washington governor, Booth Gardner. aid-in-dying advocates from Oregon, the Death with Dignity National Center, Compassion & Choices, Compassion & Choices of Washington, Compassion & Choices of Oregon. The name of the official political advocacy group working on the campaign was changed from \"It's My Decision\" to \"YES on 1000\".\n\nState Senator Darlene Fairley, who chairs the Death with Dignity Disabilities Caucus, said that \"as a matter of personal control and autonomy, it makes sense to let patients themselves decide what kind of medical care they want to receive and how long they want to suffer with a terminal illness.\"\n\nState Representative Jamie Pedersen, chair of LGBT for 1000, said, \"people facing terminal illnesses gain peace of mind from knowing that their end-of-life choices will be respected. Everyone deserves that respect and can appreciate its importance.\" Organizations that supported I-1000 include the American Medical Student Association, the American Medical Women's Association, the Lifelong AIDS Association, the ACLU, the National Women's Law Center, the Washington Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers, and the Washington State Public Health Association.\n\nThe Washington State Psychology Association was neutral on I-1000, but found that \"patients choose aid in dying because of a desire for autonomy and the wish to avoid loss of dignity and control, not because of a poor mental state, lack of resources or social support,\" and \"the law has had a positive effect in terms of significant improvements in palliative care.\"\n\nThe \"Newcastle News\" endorsed the measure in an October 7, 2008, editorial. \"Some opponents of I-1000 will refer to the life-death option as assisted suicide, but this has no resemblance to suicide. It is a humane end to a life that is already ending,\" the editorial said.\n\nThe Coalition Against Assisted Suicide opposed the measure. It included doctors and nurses, disability rights advocates and organizations, hospice workers, minorities, right-to-life organizations, the Catholic Church and other Christian organizations, and politicians.\n\nThe organization held that the danger of making doctors the agents of a patient's death far outweighed any advantages to assisted suicide, or safeguards in the initiative's text. They felt that legalization of assisted suicide would put pressure on minorities, the disabled, and the poor.\nActor Martin Sheen appeared in television ads opposing Initiative 1000. There has been some debate over one of Sheen's statements: persons with depression can be given a lethal dose without prior professional assessment. According to the Washington Death with Dignity act, \"Medication to end a patient's life\nin a humane and dignified manner shall not be prescribed until the person performing the counseling determines\nthat the patient is not suffering from a psychiatric or psychological disorder or depression causing impaired\njudgment.\" This issue has been explored in the field of medical ethics.\n\nNot Dead Yet, a disabilities advocacy group which joined with the Coalition Against Assisted Suicide, objected to the measure, arguing that it discriminates against and targets the disabled. They believe that disabled people who are worried they will become a burden to their families need help and pain relief for their conditions, not encouragement to die.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
