{"id": "22037532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22037532", "title": "1985 Brussels summit", "text": "1985 Brussels summit\n\nThe 1985 Brussels summit was the 7th NATO summit bringing the leaders of member nations together at the same time. The formal sessions and informal meetings in Brussels, Belgium took place on November 21, 1985. This event was only the seventh meeting of the NATO heads of state following the ceremonial signing of the North Atlantic Treaty on April 4, 1949.\n\nIn this period, the organization faced unresolved questions concerned whether a new generation of leaders would be as committed to NATO as their predecessors had been. Generational change in the leadership of the Soviet Union brought Mikhail Gorbachev to the international stage.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25194138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25194138", "title": "2009 Egypt v Algeria football matches", "text": "2009 Egypt v Algeria football matches\n\nThere were disturbances before and after two international association football matches between Egypt and Algeria in November 2009, leading to diplomatic tensions between Egypt, Algeria, and Sudan. The matches were in Group C in the CAF section of the qualifying competition for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe first match, the final scheduled match in Group C, took place in Cairo on 14 November, with Egypt winning 2–0. The result left Egypt and Algeria tied for first place in Group C, necessitating a playoff match in a neutral country. This took place in Omdurman, Sudan on 18 November, with Algeria winning 1–0 and thus qualifying for the World Cup final tournament in South Africa in June 2010.\n\nThe countries are both in North Africa, only separated by Libya, and football matches between them are fiercely contested local derbies. Although both have long been among Africa's stronger sides, each had experienced a long drought without World Cup qualification: Algeria since 1986 and Egypt since 1990.\n\nIn 1989, Egypt beat Algeria in a decisive qualifying match for the 1990 World Cup. Player Ayman Younes later said, \"It was a battle, not a football match.\" Algerians felt the Tunisian referee was biased; fans rioted in the stands. An Algerian player attacked an Egyptian fan. Algeria's Lakhdar Belloumi was convicted \"in absentia\" for a glass attack which blinded Egypt's team doctor in one eye. He remained subject to an Interpol arrest warrant, although he claimed goalkeeper Kamel Kadri had been the true perpetrator.\n\nFor political analyst Ziad Majed, the tension dates from Gamal Abdel Nasser days when he sent Egyptian teachers to help arabize Algeria after its independence. These teachers contributed to the rise of political Islam in Algeria, ultimately leading to the Algerian civil war. On the other hand, Khaled Diab suggests the 1989 match was the key moment for Egypt–Algeria rivalry, and that it is mainly confined to football rather than a reflection of deeper enmity; he notes Gamal Abdel Nasser supported Algeria's independence war against France, and suggests memory has faded in Algeria of Anwar El Sadat's unpopular Camp David Accords with Israel. On the other hand, Brian Oliver and James Montague point to other football controversies before 1989. In the 1950s, an Algerian National Liberation Front football team toured Africa to publicise its independence campaign, but were forbidden from playing in Egypt. At the 1978 All-Africa Games, Algerian police attacked Egyptian players and fans during their match against Libya. There were brawls at a qualifier for the 1984 Olympics.\n\nAlgeria's home match against Egypt in the 2010 qualifiers took place in June 2009 without any incident being reported. Rather, to cool down animosity between the two countries, the Egyptian team was received with flowers at the airport. Diplomatic agreement, with personal intervention from Algerian president Abdelaziz Bouteflika, included lifting the Interpol warrant on Belloumi and compensating the Egyptian team doctor. Both teams prepared for the match away from the pressure of intense local fans; Egypt in Oman, Algeria in France. Algeria coach Rabah Saadane wept at a press conference, expressing fear for his family's safety in the event of defeat. 5,000 security personnel turned Blida into a \"virtual military base\". Minors were barred from the stadium unless they had a ticket. Algeria won 3–1.\n\nThe lead-up to the crucial match was hyped. Egyptian blogger and woman's rights activist, Dalia Ziada, said the match gave Egyptians an opportunity to unite and forget about sectarian tension, economic difficulties, and politics. In October, insults were traded on internet sites, and Egyptian hackers made a denial-of-service attack on the website of Algerian newspaper \"Ech-Chorouk El-Youmi\"; an Algerian hacker retaliated by crashing the websites of the President of Egypt and Egyptian newspaper \"Al Ahram\". Both countries' governments appealed for calm. Media in both countries alluded to the 1989 match. Editorialist Mohamed El Dahshan reported, \"In the two days preceding the game, Egyptians celebrated as if they had already won.\" Ahmed Shobair stated that rumours started on the internet were being propagated by the mainstream media.\n\nWhen the Algerian team arrived in Cairo on Thursday 12 November, the bus carrying the team to its hotel was stoned, breaking windows and injuring three players and one official. Egyptian media alleged that the attack had been staged by the Algerians to have the match moved to a neutral venue. The police escort of one van and several motorcycle outriders was criticised as insufficient.\n\nEgypt's leading state-owned daily \"Al-Ahram\" charged on Friday that it was the Algerian players, not stonethrowers, who had caused the damage to the bus. \"The bus carrying the team from the airport to the hotel was at the centre of a strange incident in which some of the players started to smash the vehicle's windows claiming that they were the target of stonethrowing\", the paper reported. The independent daily \"Al-Shuruq\" went further, saying the whole episode was a \"complete fabrication.\" Citing a \"senior security source\", the paper said the windows of the bus were smashed \"from the inside not the outside as claimed by Algerian team members.\" It accused the players of a \"complete fabrication intended to serve as an excuse in the event that they lose\" Saturday's key decider for next year's World Cup finals in South Africa.\n\nThe independent \"Al-Masry Al-Youm\" newspaper acknowledged that some \"kids\" had thrown stones but charged that the Algerian players had then put on a \"display of histrionics pretending to be scared and injured, and smashing up the bus's windows and seats.\" The state-owned \"Al Gomhuria\" said the players had even assaulted the bus driver.\n\nCounterclaims included footage shot by Canal+ for its documentary about the Algerian team and cellphone footage shot by Rafik Saïfi. FIFA observer Walter Gagg said, \"We saw that three players had been injured — Khaled Lemmouchia on the head, Rafik Halliche above the eye and Rafik Saïfi on the arm.\"\n\nThe initial reporting following the incident likely led to further poisoning the build-up to Saturday's game. The pre-match atmosphere in Egypt had already surged to feverish heights amid an unprecedented level of tension between the North African rivals.\n\nEgyptian foreign ministry spokesman Hossam Zaki had specifically called for responsible coverage by both countries' media as the two governments issued joint appeals for calm. Egyptian and Algerian media \"hold a responsibility in this regard and must work to maintain the strong ties between both countries and should not fuel disagreements that are unrelated to sports and sportsmanship\", Zaki said.\n\nThat same evening just outside Cairo, Algeria's \"king of rai\" Cheb Khaled performed alongside Egyptian star Mohamed Mounir to a packed audience of nearly 45,000 people, according to organisers. \"Long live Egypt, Arab country, long live Algeria, Arab country\", Cheb Khaled shouted to the crowd, with little apparent impact on home fan passions ahead of the game.\n\nEgyptian Football Association board member Mahmoud Taher later indicated that \"all Algeria players are safe. They were not hurt. Algeria is trying to blow things out of proportion. The bus is damaged from inside, so it is obvious that they were the ones who did that to escalate the matter. FIFA has not contacted Egypt as recently reported, and there aren't any intentions to call off the game.\"\n\nKhairi Morsi, the Egyptian driver who drove the Algerian delegation's bus, said the Algerian team had assaulted him. He indicated to Modern Sport TV that \"they also shattered the windows from inside when they saw some Egyptian people around the bus.\"\n\nOn Friday 13 November, FIFA declared the match would go ahead as scheduled, but \"asked the Egyptian Football Association and the highest national authorities through the relevant ministries to provide written guarantees that confirm the implementation of the necessary additional safety and security measures at any time for the Algerian delegation.\" Lemmouchia and Halliche played with bandaged heads. Team doctor Michel Gaillaud said the players were mentally unfit and the match should not have gone ahead.\n\nEch-Chorouk reported that six Algerian fans were killed in the chaos that followed the match. This was denied by Algeria's ambassador in Cairo, Abdel Qader Hadjar, who said only eleven people had been injured. Egypt's Health Ministry reported 20 Algerians and 12 Egyptians injured. Reda City 16, a well-known Algerian rapper, claimed his brother had died in the Cairo incidents. His claims, made on a YouTube video posting, were disseminated by the Ech-Chorouk newspaper's internet site.\n\nThere were attacks on Egyptian interests in Algeria after the match. EgyptAir's Algiers bureau was broken into and a \"serious\" amount of damage done and the office was closed due to health and safety concerns. Stones were hurled at other buildings. The headquarters of Djezzy, an Algerian subsidiary of the Egyptian Orascom group, was vandalised and looted. Allegedly related was the Algerian government's demand from Orascom for US$596m in back taxes. An Egyptian plane sent to Algeria to \"rescue\" citizens was refused permission to land.\n\nIn Marseille, 500 police were deployed to quell disturbances by Algerian youths, making eight arrests.\n\nAs a result of these events, on 18 May 2010, the FIFA Disciplinary Committee sanctioned and fined the Egyptian Football Association for not adopting the necessary measures to prevent the assault on the bus of the Algerian delegation on the way from the airport to the hotel on 12 November 2009. The report would also admonish the Egyptian Football Association for failures in maintaining security and order in the Cairo International Stadium for the game between Egypt and Algeria held on 14 November 2009. This would result in a two-game ban for the Egyptian national football team whereby the first two home matches of the preliminary competition for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil would be played at a location at least 100 kilometres away from Cairo.\n\nThe teams finished level on 13 points and level on all tiebreakers: goal difference in all group matches (+5); goals scored in all group matches (9); points in all Algeria–Egypt matches (3); and goal difference in all Algeria–Egypt matches (0). (The away goals rule was not used as a group-stage tiebreaker.) The teams met in a one-game play-off to decide the qualifier. To determine the match venue, each team selected a country other than their own (Algeria selected Tunisia and Egypt selected Sudan). After Sudan was drawn in a lottery on 11 November, the Al Merreikh Stadium in Omdurman was selected by FIFA as the venue for the play-off.\n\nReuters reported that 15,000 police were mobilised for the match. Embassies advised their nationals to avoid the stadium area; government offices and schools closed early. Scuffles leading to minor injuries were reported.\n\nOn Monday 16 November, Al Jazeera reported that Algerian fans had stoned a bus carrying the Egyptian players from a training session, without causing injury. The following day, Sudan President Omar al-Bashir hosted a function in the Presidential Palace in Khartoum, in which Algerian FA head Mohamed Raouraoua snubbed his Egyptian counterpart Samir Zaher.\n\nEach team's fans were allocated 9,000 tickets, with the stadium capacity reduced from 41,000 to 36,000; there were fears of ticketless fans congregating outside. Although the countries' own blocks were strictly segregated, many Algerian and Egyptian fans purchased tickets allocated to the home Sudanese. Locals estimated the actual attendance at up to 50,000.\n\nEgyptian news media ran many stories about attacks that allegedly happened in Sudan. \"Al-Ahram\", a state-owned Egyptian newspaper, reported that buses designated for Egyptian fans to be taken to the airport had been destroyed, forcing them to walk there under escort of the Sudanese army. Egypt's foreign ministry spoke of \"Egypt's extreme displeasure with the assaults on Egyptian citizens who went to Khartoum to support the Egyptian team\". Algerian diplomats said later that a widely broadcast video showing hundreds of Algerian fans brandishing knives had in fact been taken at an Algerian club match several years earlier. According to \"Al-Ahram\", Sudanese diplomats suggested \"scores\" of Egyptians had been attacked and \"a few\" hurt. Egypt's health ministry later said there had been 20 minor injuries.\n\"The New York Times\" reported \"no widespread rioting.\".\n\nAfter the loss of the match, the Egyptian Football Association (EFA) filed a complaint with FIFA against the Algerian football delegation. The EFA indicated that \"Egyptian fans, officials and players put their lives at risk before and after the game, under threat from weapons, knives, swords and flares.\" The statement also threatened with the Egyptian football team's withdrawal for two years from all international competitions as a sign of protest. On 18 May 2010, FIFA announced that the conditions for opening disciplinary proceedings had not been met and closed the complaint.\n\nAbout 12,000 Algerian fans celebrated on the Champs-Élysées in Paris and a lot more across France. However, among the numerous celebrating crowd, some offenders made the most of the situation to loot one supermarket and torch cars. There were 150 arrests across France.\n\nEgypt's ambassador to the UK claimed thousands of fans had to flee to the airport for safety. Sudan summoned the Egyptian ambassador to protest at the media coverage of the Sudanese hosting of the match.\nThat evening, that over 1,000 Egyptians protested near the Algerian embassy in Zamalek, Cairo, burning flags, shouting anti-Algerian slogans and damaging cars and shops. The Interior Ministry said 11 police and 24 protesters were injured, and 20 people arrested.\n\nOn Friday, Alaa Mubarak telephoned a talk show, saying \"We are Egyptian and we hold our head high, and whoever insults us should be smacked on his head.\" Hosni Mubarak said on national television that he would not condone the \"humiliation\" of Egyptians abroad. However, the Foreign Ministry said the government would not \"tolerate violations against Algerian interests\", suggesting a clampdown on protests.\n\nDiplomats meeting to repair relations the next week reportedly characterised the dispute as \"ultimately a fight among soccer fans\" that \"was picked up and inflamed by some elements in the media\". An article in \"al-Ahram\" suggested that the Egyptians attending the match were mainly wealthy people who could afford to travel, rather than \"the really tough fans\" who could have defended themselves against assaults.\n\nThe two sides met again in Angola in January, for the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations semi-finals. Egypt cruised to a 4–0 victory, en route to an unprecedented 7th tournament win, in a hotly tempered match where Algeria had three players red carded. Match referee Coffi Codjia was indefinitely suspended by the Confederation of African Football for failing to send off Algerian goalkeeper Faouzi Chaouchi for headbutting the match official, only awarding the player a yellow card for the incident. Chaouchi was later one of the players to be dismissed, for a second bookable offence. He received a three match ban by CAF for the headbutt.\n\nA meeting of Egyptian sports organisations agreed to be \"prudent\" when hosting events at which Algerians were competing, and not to travel to competitions in Algeria. The Egyptian Handball Federation was due to host the African Championships in February 2010; after a request for postponement was denied by the CAHB, it withdrew as host, but said it would still field a team. The CAHB canvassed for a new host, with only Algeria volunteering. The Egyptian federation announced it would host the tournament after all.\n\nFIFA opened disciplinary proceedings against the Egyptian FA for its handling of the Algerian team's security in Cairo. On 23 November FIFA announced that its Executive Committee would hold an extraordinary general meeting on 2 December in Cape Town, where members were already due to meet to discuss the seedings for the World Cup, to discuss recent controversies. The Egypt–Algeria match was expected to figure, along with the dispute over France's handball goal against Ireland, and the investigation into a major match-fixing scam. FIFA's disciplinary committee was asked to launch an investigation; it was expected that the Algerian member of the committee would be recused. A report was expected by February 2010; Algeria's place at the World Cup finals was not in jeopardy.\n\nOn 25 November, 200 Egyptian intellectuals signed a statement condemning the media hype and political manipulation of the dispute. Bouthaina Shaaban, an advisor to Syrian President Bashar Assad, condemned the dispute as distracting Arabs from the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\n\nThere were reports that Muammar al-Gaddafi and Israel had each offered to mediate in the dispute. On 26 November, Reuters reported that a Sudanese mediation plan was nearing agreement.\n\nOn 1 December, \"al-Ahram\" reported that a village in New Valley Governorate had applied to change its name from \"al-Jaza'ir\" (\"Algeria\") to \"Mubarak al-misriyin\" (\"Mubarak for Egyptians\").\n\nA joint venture oil company announced on 6 December was seen as heralding a recovery in relations between the two countries. It was reported that Egypt would not return its ambassador to Algiers unless compensation was paid for damage to Egyptian property in Algeria. \"Al-Ahram\" reported on 10 December that inflammatory media reports in both countries had been ended by order of the respective Presidents, following mediation by Gaddafi and al-Bashir.\n\nEfforts by the UAE FA to broker an accord between the Egyptian and Algerian FAs were endorsed by Sepp Blatter.\n\nAlgeria claimed there was an orchestrated media campaign to damage its reputation and to create a fictitious enemy to Egypt, to rally the masses behind Gamal Mubarak and give him some legitimacy in his bid to inherit the presidency from his father. Foreign analysts suggested both governments encouraged protests about football to channel public discontent away from political issues. Jack Shenker suggests the anger was fomented primarily by the sensationalist media, with belated political endorsement. Others saw the violence as an expression of a general public malaise. On 22 November 2009, \"The Observer\" suggested an opposition backlash was building in Egypt to President Mubarak's stoking of the dispute. On 10 December, \"The New York Times\" made similar observations.\n\nAn Arab League spokesperson proposed that, in the future, celebrities and political leaders should not attend sensitive matches, lest they feed into public passions. Official planes had carried 200 Algerian MPs to the Cairo match, and 133 Egyptian celebrities to the Khartoum match.\n"}
{"id": "48349192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48349192", "title": "2015 Oklahoma State University homecoming parade crash", "text": "2015 Oklahoma State University homecoming parade crash\n\nThe 2015 Oklahoma State University homecoming parade crash was a vehicle collision that occurred on October 24, 2015, in Stillwater, Oklahoma, when a driver drove into a crowd watching the homecoming parade for Oklahoma State University–Stillwater on the university's campus. Four people were killed in the crash, and 46 others were reported injured.\n\nThe incident occurred at 10:31 a.m. Central Time (1531 UTC), during Oklahoma State University's annual Sea of Orange Homecoming Parade, which was being held that morning, leading up to that day's football game between the Oklahoma State Cowboys and the Kansas Jayhawks. After the parade had crossed the intersection of Hall of Fame Avenue and Main Streets ( east of Boone Pickens Stadium) on the university campus, where the parade was supposed to conclude, 25-year-old Adacia Avery Chambers – a native of Oologah and resident of Stillwater – drove her gray 2014 Hyundai Elantra south on Main at speeds above into several barriers used to block off commuter traffic and then proceeded to hit an unmanned motorcycle belonging to the Stillwater Police Department, which was providing security assistance for the event; Chambers' car then careened into approximately 50 parade spectators before stopping when its two front tires popped the curb on the southwest corner of the intersection.\n\nLocal paramedics and firefighters participating in the parade immediately began tending to those who were injured. Three of the victims who were hit by Chambers' vehicle in the collision – 23-year-old Nikita Prabhaker Nakal, a native of Mumbai, India who was an attending senior at the University of Central Oklahoma in Edmond; and husband and wife Marvin Lyle and Bonnie Jean Stone, both age 65 and residing in Stillwater – died at the scene; 2-year-old Nash Lucas, also of Stillwater, suffered severe injuries and died while being treated at The Children's Hospital at OU Medicine in Oklahoma City hours after the crash (his mother was among those injured in the crash). 47 other people – including nine children between the ages of 1 and 13 – were admitted for various injuries at Stillwater Medical Center; OU Medical Center and The Children's Hospital in Oklahoma City; and St. Johns Medical Center in Tulsa. The intersection was subsequently blocked off by Stillwater and university law enforcement.\nChambers was arrested near the crash site by Stillwater Police Department officers present at the scene of the accident on suspicion of driving under the influence; she was later placed into a detox unit in the Payne County Jail. Results of blood tests to gauge the levels of any alcohol or narcotic intoxicants in Chambers' body – a requirement for police to administer for \"serious\" vehicle accidents involving a fatality under Oklahoma state law – revealed she had a blood alcohol level of .01, not enough to be charged with driving under the influence. Chambers was arraigned at Payne County District Court on October 26, with any additional charges against her pending further investigation into the cause of the collision that is presented to the Payne County District Attorney's office. Chambers was charged with four counts of second-degree murder and 46 charges of assault. Her bail was set at $1 million. Her trial was scheduled to begin January 10, 2017. On January 10, 2017, she was sentenced to life in prison after accepting a plea deal.\n\nOn January 10, 2017, Adacia Avery Chambers pleaded no contest to four counts of second-degree murder and 39 counts of assault and battery by means or force likely to produce death. Chambers received life in prison for each murder count, to be served concurrently, and 10 years in prison for each assault count, to also be served concurrently. The plea agreement ensures Chambers will serve a 55-year sentence and will not leave prison until her early 70s, pending parole for both the life sentence and assault sentence.\n\nDuring a press conference on the crash held that afternoon, Burns Hargis, president of Oklahoma State University, stated, \"Tragically we lost three. I hope we don't lose anymore. [...] The Cowboy family pulls together, unfortunately, we’ve had to do it before, and we're going to do it again.\" Stillwater mayor Gina Noble, who had served as the parade's grand marshal, later remarked that \"We are heartbroken at this tragedy.\" Noble later commented, \"We’ve never seen anything like this. [...] We’re shocked. We are definitely subdued in mood and we’re still trying to understand. [...] We will get through this together and figure out how to help those who need the help.\"\n\nThe homecoming football game between Oklahoma State and Kansas – in which the Cowboys defeated the Jayhawks, 58-10 – was played as scheduled at 2:30 p.m. that afternoon; a pep rally originally set to be held before the game was cancelled, however. Before the game (which was televised nationally on FS1), Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, an alumna of the university who was in attendance at the game, led players and spectators in a moment of prayer as the United States flag flew at half staff in Boone Pickens Stadium.\n\nFallin expressed condolences during a press conference that occurred during halftime of the game, \"Our hearts and prayers go out with those who lost loved ones today, to those that were injured in the tragedy,\" and referenced the two previous tragedies involving the university during the past 14 years (the January 2001 plane crash that killed ten members of the Cowboys basketball team and the November 2011 plane crash that killed four people, including Cowgirls basketball head coach Kurt Budke and assistant coach Miranda Serna), adding \"One thing I do know about Oklahoma people. They’re strong. They're very compassionate. They believe in prayer. They believe in comforting people and helping during a time of crisis and need. We’ll get through this again. But certainly it’s a very painful experience for those of us here, and certainly for all Oklahomans.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36582089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36582089", "title": "21 Hours at Munich", "text": "21 Hours at Munich\n\n21 Hours at Munich is a 1976 American television film directed by William A. Graham and starring William Holden. It is based on the book \"The Blood of Israel\" by Serge Groussard and it deals with real events concerning the Munich massacre during the 1972 Summer Olympics. It was broadcast by ABC November 7, 1976. Despite its TV origin, the film was released theatrically in several foreign countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "3961824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3961824", "title": "Air Serv International", "text": "Air Serv International\n\nAir Serv International is a nonprofit humanitarian organization that uses aircraft to fly relief workers and supplies to help victims of disasters in some of the most remote and challenging areas in the world. It flies where other air carriers cannot, or will not, fly. It is headquartered in Warrenton, Virginia, United States.\n\nAir Serv was founded in 1984 in the state of Florida as a humanitarian 501 (c) 3 Charitable Organisation. In 1997 it set up a subsidiary for-profit company in Uganda, Air Serv Limited. In 2007 it also maintains offices in Afghanistan, Canada, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, France, Jordan and Mozambique. Air Serv is affiliated with various charity umbrella organisations, including Independent Charities of America, InterAction and Do Unto Others.\n\nAir Serv was active in Banda Aceh in the wake of the 2004 Tsunami and late in 2005 was involved in relief work following the Kashmir earthquake in Pakistan.\n\nAir Serv uses a variety of turboprop and piston engined aircraft as well as some leased or chartered helicopters and larger aircraft when required. As of November 2007 the fleet numbers 19 and includes: \n\nAccident 31 August 2007. A Twin Otter being ferried back from Punia (PUN) (Democratic Republic of Congo) to Goma (GOM) in VMC. It was involved in an accident some 8-10 minutes after departure. The airplane crash-landed in the Oku River between Punia and Tchamaka. The airplane came to rest inverted in the water and was badly damaged. The aircraft was leased from Solenta Aviation and operated by Air Serv International\n\nAn Air Serv leased nineteen passenger Beechcraft 1900C crashed on 1 September 2008 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, about 15 km northwest of Bukavu carrying two crew and fifteen passengers.\nThe aircraft, registration ZS-OLD, was wet leased and flown by crew from South Africa's CEM Air. Based at Lanseria Airport, Johannesburg South Africa, it was arriving at Bukavu following technical service at N'Dolo Airport, Kinshasa. The aircraft was under the command of 24-year-old Rudi Knoetze of Johannesburg when it crashed into a mountainous ridge. Passengers included twelve Congolese, one French, one Indian, and one Canadian.\n\nAccident 4 March 2009. An Air Serv Cessna Caravan registration 5X-ASI had to perform a forced landing shortly after take off from Maridi, Sudan, when it suffered engine failure. The airplane landed back on the runway before eventually coming to a stop off the end of the landing strip. The wing struck a tree during the forced landing. The wing reportedly came off as a result. [(Aviation Safety Network)]\n\nAccording to the authors of \"The Power of Unreasonable People\" Air Serv has provided more than 150,000 flights enabling hundreds of humanitarian relief organizations access to parts of the world under stress. Of these flights Air Serv has delivered more than 1,600 metric tons of supplies and served more than 230,000 passengers and patients. The environment that Air Serv operates in is often war torn countries, ravaged by fighting and unrest between rebel forces and governments. One pilot working with Air Serv recounted how she was held at gunpoint by a local needing transportation until the police aided her in resolving the issue. Another pilot that formerly flew with the Air Force remarked how he was shot at more than when he flew with the military. Sometimes fighting stops only for the planes to come in and deliver supplies and then the fighting will resume. On one flight the pilot of Air Serv was given 30 min by the rebel forces fighting in that region to land, refuel and evacuate fellow humanitarians and be back up in the air. Other factors that Air Serv pilots must deal with is inadequate runways and severe weather conditions. Landing in mud so deep that the plane becomes stuck requiring locals to dig out with machetes and rain that is so severe that it removes paint from the aircraft are just a few of the weather related challenges Air Serv has faced. Air fields that these pilots use are sometimes just desert areas marked by rocks showing where the pilots must land. \n\n"}
{"id": "42770718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42770718", "title": "Bel Air Fire", "text": "Bel Air Fire\n\nThe Bel Air Fire was a disaster that began as a brush fire on November 5, 1961 in the Bel Air community of Los Angeles. 484 homes were destroyed and were burned. The fire was fueled by strong Santa Ana winds.\n\nThere were multiple celebrities affected by the fire. Actors Burt Lancaster, Joan Fontaine, and Zsa Zsa Gabor, comedian Joe E. Brown, Nobel laureate chemist Willard Libby and composer Lukas Foss lost homes in the fire. Others that fought flames before they evacuated were former Vice President Richard Nixon, actor Robert Taylor, film producer Keith Daniels and singer Billy Vaughn.\n\nAs a result of the Bel Air Fire, Los Angeles initiated a series of laws and fire safety policies. These included the banning of wood shingle roofs in new construction and one of the most stringent brush clearance policies in the US.\n\nThe Los Angeles City Fire Department produced a documentary, \"Design For Disaster\", about the wildfire, narrated by William Conrad.\n"}
{"id": "46937656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46937656", "title": "Bull wrestling", "text": "Bull wrestling\n\nBull wrestling, cow fighting or bull fighting is a non-lethal bloodsport between bulls or cows found in some parts of the world.\n\n\"Korida\", from \"corrida\", or \"borbe bikova\" (\"fights of bulls\") is a traditional sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. \n\nGrmeč, a mountain in the extreme west of Bosnia, is the best-known site of bullfights in the Balkans. They are called the \"Korida of Grmeč\" (\"Grmečka korida\") and have been organised on every first Sunday in August for over 200 years, attracting thousands of visitors. These are fights between bulls themselves and there is no death of a bull. Fights happen in an empty field.\n\nThe korida of Grmeč was depicted by the sculptor Slobodan Pejić. The sculpture of two bulls in a fight, made in bronze in 2004, has been compared to a confrontation of the oppressor and the oppressed or of the Bosnian people and the Austrian Emperor.\n\nIn Croatia, koridas are traditionally organized in Dalmatian Hinterland region. \n\nBull wrestling in Turkey is known as \"\" (literally \"bull wrestling\"). Each year in the third week of June, the Kafkasör (Caucasus) festival takes place in the city of Artvin. At the beginning of the festival, certain rules are applied in order to save the bulls from injury. For example, if a bull retreats from the fight, it means defeat, etc.\n\n\nIn Oman and the United Arab Emirates two Brahman bulls are presented to each other and allowed to lock horns and fight, while their handlers hold ropes to separate them if necessary. The origins of bullfighting in Oman are unknown, though locals believe it was brought here by the Moors who had conquered Spain. Its existence in Oman and the UAE is also attributed to Portugal, which colonized the Omani coastline for nearly two centuries, and also introduced bullfighting to Omani Zanzibar.\n\n\"Dhiri\" or \"Dhirio\" (Konkani: धिरी,धिरयो) is a popular form of traditional bull wrestling in the state of Goa, Coastal South West India. It was the weekend entertainment staple for most villages. Many families lived off the earnings made on appearance money and bets alone. The Panaji Bench of the high Court vide order dated 20.12.96 directed the State Government to take immediate steps to ban all types of animal fights including Dhiri organised in the State of Goa, which was finally banned in 1997. Dhiri bullfights are still very popular in Goa despite the ban. There have been demands for legalizing Dhiri.\n\nOn 17 October 1987, during its 10th session, the Islamic Council discussed the practices of bullfighting and animal pits (where two or more animals are agitated and forced to fight each other for the sole purpose of entertainment), and issued a fatwa that both are considered haraam (forbidden by Allah) due to their cruel nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "36209183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36209183", "title": "Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos", "text": "Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos\n\nThe Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos (Brazilian Championship of Brand and Drivers) was a touring car racing based in Brazil. It had two incarnations, the first one between 1983 and 1994, and the second one between 2004 and 2009.\n\nStart in 1983 the Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos was a strong touring car racing championship, with direct involvement of the manufactures, had its last year of competition in 1994, the champions were Egon Herzfield and Vicente Daudt, who run with the Ford Escort. At the end of 1994 season, the promise was that we would have for the 1995 season imported cars, utilize in some championships as; BTCC or DTM, but this promise was not fulfilled and the championship was declared ended. \n\nAfter ten years, in 2004 that announced the return of the championship with new rules and cars, organized for Toninho de Souza and Brazilian Confederation of Auto Racing (CBA), the championship not obtained success and was ended in 2009.\n\nIn 2011 that announced the return of the championship with Brasileiro de Marcas name and completely reworked.\n"}
{"id": "4852797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852797", "title": "Cord Meyer", "text": "Cord Meyer\n\nCord Meyer Jr. (; November 10, 1920 – March 13, 2001) was a US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official. After serving in World War II as a Marine officer in the Pacific War where he was both injured and decorated, he led the United World Federalists in the years after the war. In about 1949, he began work with the CIA where he became a high-level operative, retiring in 1977. He married Mary Pinchot in 1945; the couple divorced in 1958, and she was subsequently romantically linked to President John F. Kennedy. Her 1964 murder remains both unsolved and controversial.\n\nAfter his retirement from intelligence work, Meyer wrote as a columnist and book author.\n\nMeyer was the son of a wealthy New York family. His father, Cord Meyer Sr., was a diplomat and real estate developer; his mother, Katherine Blair Thaw, belonged to a Pennsylvania family that earned its wealth in the coal business. His grandfather, also called Cord Meyer, was a property developer and a chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee. He was educated at St. Paul's School, New Hampshire, and attended Yale University, where he was a member of the Scroll and Key society. After graduating in 1942, he joined the 22nd Marine Regiment and fought in Pacific War; he took part in the Battle of Eniwetok, and in the Battle of Guam as platoon leader, losing his left eye in a grenade attack. He became a First Lieutenant and was awarded the Bronze Star Medal. He shared his war experiences, writing for \"The Atlantic Monthly\".\n\nOn April 19, 1945, in New York City, he married Mary Eno Pinchot, second daughter of Amos Pinchot.\n\nHe was an aide of Harold Stassen to the 1945 San Francisco United Nations Conference on International Organization, and in 1947, was elected president of the United World Federalists, the organization he helped to fund.\n\n\"Circa\" 1949, Meyer started working for the Central Intelligence Agency, joining the organization in 1951 at the invitation of Allen Dulles. At first he worked at the Office of Policy Coordination under former OSS man, Frank Wisner. In 1953, Meyer came under attack by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which claimed he was a security risk for having once stood at the same podium of a \"notorious leftist\", and refused to give him a security clearance. An internal CIA inquiry summarily dismissed the claims.\n\nAccording to Deborah Davis in her 1979 book \"Katharine the Great\", Meyer became the \"principal operative\" of Operation Mockingbird, a plan to secretly influence domestic and foreign media. Meyer befriended James Angleton, who in 1954 became the CIA's counter-intelligence chief. From 1954 until 1962, Meyer led the agency's International Organizations Division. Meyer headed the Covert Action Staff of the Directorate of Plans from 1962.\n\nOn 18 December 1956, Meyer's nine-year-old son, Michael, was hit by a car and killed. Meyer and his wife Mary divorced in 1958. On 12 October 1964, his former wife Mary was shot dead by an unknown assailant alongside the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. Her sister and brother-in-law Benjamin C. Bradlee, later the executive editor of \"The Washington Post\", caught Angleton breaking into Pinchot's residence. Angleton apparently was looking for Mary Meyer's diary that allegedly contained details of a love affair with John F. Kennedy, the recently assassinated U.S. President.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1973, Meyer was Assistant Deputy Director of Plans under Thomas Karamessines, and from 1973 to 1976 was CIA station chief in London.\n\nHe retired from the CIA in 1977. Following retirement, Meyer became a syndicated columnist and wrote several books, including an autobiography. Some insiders incorrectly suspected that Cord Meyer was Deep Throat, a key informant in the Watergate Scandal.\n\nMeyer died of lymphoma on March 13, 2001.\n\nAfter the death of former CIA agent and Watergate figure E. Howard Hunt in 2007, Saint John Hunt and David Hunt revealed that their father had recorded several claims about himself and others being involved in a conspiracy to assassinate John F. Kennedy. In the April 5, 2007 issue of \"Rolling Stone\", Saint John Hunt detailed how his father drew a diagram of the conspirators:\n\nMany presume the \"French gunman grassy knoll\" was Lucien Sarti, and William Harvey. The two sons alleged that their father cut the information from his memoirs, \"American Spy: My Secret History in the CIA, Watergate and Beyond\", to avoid possible perjury charges. According to Hunt's widow and other children, the two sons took advantage of Hunt's loss of lucidity by coaching and exploiting him for financial gain. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said they examined the materials offered by the sons to support the story and found them to be \"inconclusive\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2614507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2614507", "title": "Craig Shergold", "text": "Craig Shergold\n\nCraig Shergold (born 24 June 1979) is a British former cancer patient who received an estimated 350 million greeting cards, earning him a place in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". Variations of the plea for greeting cards on his behalf in 1989 are still being distributed through the Internet, making the plea one of the most persistent urban legends.\n\nIn 1988 Craig Shergold began complaining of ear aches. After antibiotics were unsuccessful in treating his symptoms, in 1989 doctors diagnosed him, at the age of nine, with what they considered terminal brain cancer.\n\nCraig's friends and relatives began a chain letter campaign requesting individuals to send greeting cards to him with the goal of beating the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" for 1,000,065 greeting cards received. Craig received greeting cards from all over the world including celebrities like Madonna and Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\nThe Children's Wish Foundation became involved in the campaign in the early stages and quickly became overwhelmed by the volume of cards being received, though they later disavowed any connection with the chain letter campaigns.\n\nThe campaign was successful and Shergold's name was added to the \"1991 Guinness Book of World Records\" as having received 16,250,692 get-well cards by May 1990, and again in the \"1992 Guinness Book of World Records\" as having received 33 million cards by May 1991.\n\nCraig's cancer worsened. His British doctors estimated he might only have a few weeks of life remaining and suggested the family bring him home for the last few weeks. Virginia billionaire John Kluge, founder of Metromedia, learned of Shergold's illness and arranged for him to travel to the United States for a new type of operation. He was operated on in 1991 at the University of Virginia Medical Center, where a physician was able to remove virtually all of the tumor except for a benign fragment. Craig grew into a healthy adult. \n\nEven after his recovery, the chain letter continued to circulate and millions of greeting cards continued to flow to Shergold's home. Craig estimated that by 1998, he had received a total of 250 million cards. Variants of the chain mail changed Craig's name to \"Craig Shelford\", \"Craig Stafford\", \"Craig Shefford\", or even \"Greg Sherwood\". Another variant involves requests for business cards.\n\nThe Royal Mail gave their home its own postal code because of the volume of mail they received. To avoid the deluge of mail, the family halted mail delivery and later moved.\n\nSince 1989, Craig has received approximately 350 million greeting cards. As an adult, Craig does not make any public appearances other than to express his new wish–for the mail to stop. , he continues to receive cards, sent to his old address.\n\nThe Make-A-Wish Foundation also states on their Web site that they do not engage in chain letters or telemarketing activities and also denies any involvement in fulfilling Craig's original wish, stating that it was done by another wish-granting organization. Any mail that is received is forwarded to a recycling center.\n\nIn 1993, Shergold's mother, Marion, wrote a book about her son's story entitled, \"Craig Shergold : A Mother's Story\". On 10 November 2001, PAX TV aired a made-for-TV movie, \"The Miracle of the Cards\". The movie starred Thomas Sangster as Shergold and also featured Kirk Cameron as a cynical reporter.\n\nGuinness World Records has retired the record and requested that individuals no longer respond to any requests for greeting cards.\n\n"}
{"id": "822220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=822220", "title": "Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters", "text": "Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters\n\nThe Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters (DTM, German Touring Car Masters) is a touring car series sanctioned by DMSB and ITR who has been an affiliation of FIA since 1976 and 2003 respectively. Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars use a silhouette racing car based on a mass-produced road car, and is based in Germany, but also with rounds elsewhere in Europe.\n\nFrom 2000 onwards, this \"new DTM\" continued the former Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft (German Touring Car Championship) and ITC (International Touring Car Championship) which had been discontinued after 1996 due to high costs.\n\nDuring the ITC era a large proportion of the revenue generated by the championship went to the FIA, with the result that less went to the teams who subsequently complained of little return on their increasingly large investment in the high-tech series. Since 1997 many ideas have been discussed in order to find a compromise for rules of a new DTM. Opel put the primary emphasis on cost control, Mercedes-Benz supported expensive competitiveness in development, BMW wanted an international series rather than one focused on Germany only, while Audi insisted on allowing their trademark quattro four-wheel drive (despite running the rear wheel drive Audi R8) in sports car racing.\n\nThe DTM returned in 2000 as Mercedes and Opel had agreed to use cars that were based on the concept car that was shown by Opel on various occasions, e.g. the 1999 24 Hours Nürburgring where Opel celebrated its 100th anniversary. The series adopted the format of the 1995 championship, with most rounds held in Germany with occasional rounds throughout Europe, but having learnt the lessons of the ITC disaster, the ITR constantly strived to keep costs in the series from exploding to unreasonable levels, and to keep the championship firmly tied to its German roots. As too many races were planned outside Germany, no Championship (Meisterschaft) status was granted by the DMSB, and the DTM initials now stand for Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters (German Touring Car Masters).\n\nUnlike the previous incarnation which primarily used sedan models like the Mercedes-Benz W201, the new DTM featured only 2-door coupés. Opel used the upcoming Coupé version of the Astra as in the concept car, and Mercedes the CLK model which already was used as a pattern for the Mercedes-Benz CLK-GTR.\n\nThe motorsport arm of the Bavarian tuning company Abt Sportsline was allowed to enter on short notice. Abt used the Audi TT as a basis, as Audi had no suitable 2-door coupé, even though the dimensions of this car did not fit into the rules. The 1999 STW-Supertouring-champion Christian Abt could not defend his STW title as this series was also discontinued, with Opel moving into DTM.\n\nIn May 2000, the new DTM started with the traditional Hockenheimring short track version. Some cars still had no or few sponsorship decals. While Opel could match the speed of most Mercedes in the 2000 season, the hastily developed Abt-Audis were mainly outclassed. As the TT shape had rather poor aerodynamic properties, Abt was allowed to use a stretched form later. Further benefits like a higher rear wing helped the Abt-Audi TT-R win the DTM championship in 2002 with Laurent Aïello.\n\nIn 2000, Manuel Reuter came second in the championship. After that year, no Opel driver was among the top three, with few podium finishes and no victory for the disappointing \"lightnings\". On the other hand, it was Opel team boss Volker Strycek who brought a new highlight to the fans, by racing a modified DTM car on the traditional old version of the Nürburgring in 2002, 20 years after the top classes had moved to the modern Grand Prix track, and 10 years after the old DTM stopped racing there. The Opels did not win in most of their entries in the VLN endurance races as they were mainly testing, but the speed was impressive, and the fans loved it. They won however the 2003 Nürburgring 24 Hours against factory efforts by Audi (Who also ran a DTM-spec TT) and BMW (Who ran an ALMS-spec M3).\n\nAfter their successes with the Audi R8 and the official support of the Abt-TTRs at the Nürburgring, Audi finally joined the DTM as a factory entry in 2004. The three constructors involved decided to switch to saloon bodies. The road models used as patterns since 2004 are the Audi A4, Opel Vectra GTS and the Mercedes-Benz C-Class. All dimensions, like wheelbase, are identical in order to provide equal opportunities without the actual design of the road cars having any influence. Audi immediately had stellar success in 2004 with Swedish driver Mattias Ekström, now a long-time veteran of the sport, becoming champion for the first time.\n\nThe championship suffered a setback in 2004 when long-time also-ran Opel decided to pull out of the series at the end of the 2005 season, as part of a large cost-cutting operation in General Motors' European division. Initially the gap looked set to be filled by MG Rover, however their plans to enter the series were cancelled after the company collapsed in April 2005. Audi and Mercedes fielded 10 cars each in 2006, but the important television deal with the major television station ARD required three marques in 2007. \n\nThe DTM carried on with only two manufacturers. The years 2007-2009 were marked by the dominance of Audi. Swede Mattias Ekström won the second of his two titles in 2007, and Timo Scheider took the driver's championship in the following two years. Mercedes were in the runner-up positions in both 2008 and 2009 (Paul di Resta in 2008 and Gary Paffett in 2009). In 2010, Mercedes finally bridged the gap to Audi, as Paul di Resta won the 2010 championship driving for AMG Mercedes.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, the DTM held a Race of Champions-style exhibition event in the Munich Olympic Stadium.\n\n2012 was the year that BMW made a return to the series after twenty years away, and won the drivers', teams', and manufacturers' titles in their first year after a 20-year hiatus.\n\nAudi has switched from the A4 to the A5 in 2012 and to the RS5 in 2013. In 2013, the F1-style Drag Reduction Systems were introduced by DTM for the first time to improve racing.\nIn 2014, the body shape as well as aero kits of all DTM cars were remodified to improve racing. The double-header races (Saturday and Sunday races) were returned in 2015 and thus switching from lap-race to timed race. The qualifying format were also reformatted into single-session timed qualification for Saturday and Sunday races. Performance weights were also introduced to determine the winning cars's weight.\n\nIn 2017 the DTM field size was scaled down from 24 to 18 cars to improve quality as well as making it more affordable for its existing manufacturers and a more attractive proposition for any prospective entrants.\n\nIn March 2010, GT Association (the governing body in Super GT series in Japan) reported the ITR are starting to unite the mechanical regulation with Japan's GT500 (Super GT's upper class), and NASCAR's Grand American Road Racing Association Grand Touring division to form a new Grand Touring specification. In October 2012 a cooperation deal between DTM and Super GT was signed in Tokyo. The agreement regarding the use of the 'New DTM' regulations by Japan's Super GT begins in 2014 and runs – for the time being – for four years. DTM is set to ditch V8 engines in favour of two-litre turbos by 2019 at the latest, which Super GT had implemented in 2014.\n\nOn 27 March 2013, the ITR and NASCAR Holdings' road racing division, United SportsCar Racing, announced after years of planning, a North American DTM is scheduled to start between 2015 and 2016 based on the 2014 DTM regulations. But North American DTM are not yet commenced currently.\n\nWhen the series returned, it used a similar format to 1996: two races of 100 kilometres, with a short break between them. In 2001 and 2002 there was a short race of 35 kilometres as well as a long race of 100 kilometres, which included one pit stop and gave points for the top 10 as in earlier seasons. From 2003 to 2014 there was only one race, which had a distance of about 170 kilometres, and two mandatory pit stops.\n\nFor the 2015 season a new race format was introduced. Race weekend consisted of 40-minute (Saturday) and 60-minute (Sunday) races. On Saturday's race a pit stop was optional, while on Sunday's race a pit stop was mandatory and all the four tyres had to be changed. Both races had the same scoring system.\n\nFrom the 2017 season, both races of a weekend will feature the same distance – 55 minutes plus a complete lap, with one of them being held on Saturday, the other on Sunday. In both races, the drivers have to pit at least once for a set of fresh tires.\n\nThe drivers have been a mixture of young and older drivers, including well known former Formula One drivers David Coulthard, Bernd Schneider, Allan McNish, Jean Alesi, Heinz-Harald Frentzen, Ralf Schumacher, JJ Lehto, Pedro Lamy, Karl Wendlinger, Emanuele Pirro, Stefano Modena and two-time F1 world champion Mika Häkkinen. Others, such as Laurent Aïello, Tom Kristensen, Dindo Capello, Frank Biela, Marco Werner, Lucas Luhr, Alexandre Prémat, Yves Olivier, Jaroslav Janiš, and Alain Menu have made their career racing in sports cars and touring cars.\n\nIncreasingly, the DTM is being used by young guns such as Robert Wickens and Gary Paffett to jump-start their racing career in single-seaters. Wickens was in the 2012 Mercedes young driver program and in his first year of DTM. This strategy appears to have worked well for Christijan Albers, who built a reputation by finishing second and third in the 2003 and 2004 championships with Mercedes-Benz and then graduated to Formula One in 2005. He came back in 2008, but this time driving for Audi. After winning the championship in 2010, Paul di Resta raced from 2011 until 2013 for Mercedes-engined Formula One team Force India. He has now returned to the Mercedes DTM team. Pascal Wehrlein, who has won the championship in a Mercedes car in 2015 went on to race for Sauber F1 Team and is a testing driver for the Mercedes works team.\n\nGary Paffett has also used his championship win to gain a test with McLaren, and they signed him as permanent test driver for 2006. This prevented Paffett from defending his title in 2006, however he thought that it will be a springboard for a race seat during the 2007 Formula One season. The plan failed however, and Paffett returned to DTM in 2007, but in a 2006 specification car.\n\nFour female drivers have taken part in the championship. In 2006 Vanina Ickx started racing for Audi and Susie Wolff for Mercedes. In 2008 Ickx was replaced by Katherine Legge, who was subsequently replaced for the 2011 season by Rahel Frey.\n\nThe DTM is a mass-produced touring car. The championship controls and specifies the chassis/car and engine manufacturers that teams are allowed to use each season. The league's choice of manufacturers are changed every three years. Currently Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz provides the cars to all teams, with Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz providing the engines respectively. Opel has provided cars and engines in 2000-2005 but left at the end of the 2005 season. The all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars closely resemble public road vehicles but heavily modified into a race version.\n\nDuring the first inaugural resumption season, all DTM car styles were utilized shorter two-door coupé-style cars until 2003 season but in 2004 coupé-style cars were minority due to the transition to four-door sedan saloon-style cars. In 2004 the four-door sedan saloon-style cars were introduced due to touring car's philosophy (several touring car racing tournaments have a \"de facto\" 4-door sedan saloon cars) until 2011. For 2012 season onwards the two-door coupé-style cars were returned until to date but the two-door coupé-style cars are much more different than 2000-2003 cars (longer length, longer wheelbase, slightly lower height and aggressive aero package). The updated new coupé-style cars were introduced in 2017 thanks to new rear wing.\n\nThe cars are supposed to be fast and spectacular, while still fairly cheap to build and run. All DTM race cars have RWD and 4.0 L V8 engines which are air-restricted to 460 hp but now into over 500 hp since 2017 season, no matter if similar layouts or engines are available in the road cars. Instead of the road car bodies, unrelated purpose-built chassis are used, which are closer to prototype racing. Many drivers have in fact described the handling of the cars as closer to single seater racing cars than road cars. Only the roof sections of the road cars are put on top of the roll cages, and lights and other distinctive design features are used in order to provide a resemblance to the road cars. Also, in order to save money and provide close racing, many common parts from third party specialists are used, like transmission (from Hewland), brakes (from AP Racing), wheels (from ATS) and Hankook tyres (see below). The all-important aerodynamic configurations are tested in wind tunnels before the season, brought to an equal level, and kept that way throughout the season.\n\nDTM cars adhere to a front engine rear-wheel-drive design (similar to public legal road car). A roll cage serves as a space frame chassis, covered by CFRP crash elements on the side, front and rear and covered by metallic bodywork. They have a closed cockpit, a bi-plane rear wing, and other aerodynamic parts such as front splitter, side winglets and hood holes (see also on Aerodynamics section for more details).\n\nThe price of 1 unit current DTM car is normally €600,000-1,000,000 complete.\nAll Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars aero packages are completely assembled. The car floor underbody is flat. Serratured side front fenders are included along with triple-decker front side winglet flicks, multiple side winglet flicks and multiple rear winglet flicks. The current rear wing of all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars are slightly wider, bi-plane wing and also parallelogram rear wing end plate. DTM cars have included a Drag Reduction System since the 2013 season (similar to Formula One) for helping the driver to overtake the other opponents.\n\nFor the transmission gearboxes, all DTM cars currently use a semi-automatic transmission with 6-speed gearbox operated by paddle shifters and supplied by Hewland Engineering since the 2012 season. From 2000 to 2011, all DTM cars used sequential manual transmission with a 6-speed gearbox operated by the gear lever. The clutch of all DTM cars are CFRP 4-plate clutch operated by foot-pedal and provided by ZF. Mechanical limited-slip differential are also allowed and constant velocity joint tripod driveshafts are also used. All Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars drivetrain are currently front-engine with rear-wheel-drive layout.\n\nAP Racing supplies monobloc brake calipers, carbon brake discs, pads and disc bells, which are exclusive to all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars since 2000. The carbon brake discs are thicker for improving braking power while approaching sharper corners.\n\nThe suspension of all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars is upper and lower wishbones, pushrod operated and coupled with adjustable gas pressure dampers.\n\nATS exclusively supplies wheel rims for all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars since the 2017 season. Previously O.Z. Racing, BBS and AMG were wheel rim suppliers per manufacturer. The wheel rims of all DTM cars are made of magnesium alloy wheels.\n\nHankook is currently the sole tyre supplier for the series since the 2011 season until at least 2019. Previously Dunlop Tyres was the tyre supplier of DTM from 2000 to 2010. The DTM runs the bespoke compounds and same size as LMP and GT cars since 2000 and re-profiled in 2012. The front tyre sizes are 300/680-R18 and the rear tyre sizes are 320/700-R18. The compounds of Hankook Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters tyres are 3 dry compounds and 1 wet compound.\n\nFor the safety equipment, all DTM cars seating uses removable carbon-fibre shell driver's seat with 6-point seat belts. The steering wheel of all DTM cars are free design per one manufacturer with multiple buttons (similar to Formula One). All DTM cars are also equipped with Bosch Motorsport DDU 8 data display units since the 2012 season. The fire extinguisher of all DTM cars are included in the bottom right-hand side underneath.\n\nThe cockpit of all DTM cars are fully protected by doors, windshields and roofs (shielded by polycarbonate glass for windscreen, side windows and rear windows including also windshield wipers for rain weather only in the windscreen) because of current coupé-type car.\n\nThe fuel tank of all DTM cars are made of kevlar-reinforced rubber safety tank supplied by ATL. Currently the fuel tank capacity of all DTM cars are since 2012-present. Previously, the fuel tank of all DTM cars were in 2000-2011.\n\nAll DTM cars carry a Bosch-provided electronic control unit (Motronic MS 5.1 model). Live telemetry is used only for television broadcasts, but the data can be recorded from the ECU to the computer if the car is in the garage and not on the track.\n\nRear view mirrors for all DTM cars are fully mandated to easily viewing opponents behind.\n\nThe cars were powered by naturally-aspirated (no turbocharger and supercharger) indirect-injected stock block V8 engines, with aluminium alloy blocks, 2xDOHC valvetrain actuating four-valves per cylinder and limited to displacement since the series' rebirth in 2000. DTM car engines are currently producing over power output at 8,500 rpm. Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz are currently providing DTM engines with the manufacturers respectively. The engines of all DTM cars are close-resemblance to public vehicle road cars but heavily modified to DTM race version.\n\nDTM engines were rev-limited to 9,000 rpm. The valve train is a dual overhead camshaft configuration with four valves per cylinder. The crankshaft is made of alloy steel, with five main bearing caps. The pistons were forged aluminum alloy, while the connecting rods are machined alloy steel. The firing ignition was a CDI ignition system. The engine lubrication was a dry sump type, cooled by a single water pump.\n\nThe first generation DTM engine weight are DTM-mandated minimum without filter and spark box.\n\nThe first generation V8 engine normally aspirated 90-degree configuration were used as a required engine configuration until 2018 season.\n\nAll Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars will switch from outgoing V8 naturally-aspirated indirect electronic injection to an all-new inline-4 cylinder turbocharged direct injection engine from the 2019 season onwards called the \"Class One\" while the current coupé-style cars will remain from 2019 beyond. This will mark the return of turbocharger engines in 2019 season for the first time since 1990. The power output of all-new DTM engine will be increased from . Aston Martin, Audi and BMW will providing DTM new engines with the manufacturers respectively. The engine components are aluminium alloy blocks, DOHC valvetrain actuating four-valves per cylinder and limited to displacement.\n\nAll Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars carried a spark plugs are made of iridium and supplied exclusively by Bosch since 2000.\n\nThe exhaust systems of all DTM cars are silencer type but made of titanium with operation of three-way catalytic converter. Currently Akrapovič (Audi and BMW) and Remus (Mercedes-AMG) are providing the exhaust systems.\n\nAt its inception, all the DTM cars currently use ordinary unleaded racing fuel, which has been the de facto standard in German touring car racing since original DTM 1994 and the reborn of DTM in 2000 (previously the original DTM were used leaded fuels in 1984-1993). Since the 2010 season, the fuel of all DTM cars is currently Aral Ultimate 102 RON unleaded racing fuel. In 2005-2010, the Aral Ultimate 100 RON unleaded fuel was used for all DTM cars. From 2000 to 2003, Agip was providing an unleaded fuel for all DTM cars. From 2004, all DTM cars were fueled by Shell until mid-2005, when they switched to Aral Ultimate 100 RON unleaded racing fuel.\n\nCurrent Aral Ultimate 102 RON unleaded gasoline is resemble the ordinary unleaded public vehicles gasoline which has better mileage, environmental-friendly and safer than other fuels.\n\nThe lubricant supplier of all DTM cars are mandatory recommendation by per manufacturer (Audi with Castrol, BMW with Shell and Mercedes-AMG with Petronas).\n\nThe car also features internal cooling upgrades, a new water radiator, radiator duct, oil/water heat exchanger, modified oil degasser, new oil and water pipes and new heat exchanger fixing brackets. PWR is the current DTM cooling component supplier since 2000.\n\nAccording to research and pre-season stability tests, the current model can go 0 to 100 km/h in approximately 2.6 seconds. The car has a top speed of meaning that it is the second fastest touring car behind the Australian V8 Supercars.\n\nIn 2015, Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters were introduced the Balance of Performance (BoP) weight to improve racing spectacle. The Balance of Performance (BoP) weight regulations were the car weight allowance range must be in 2015-2016 later changed to from the mid-2017 season. The Balance of Performance (BoP) weight regulations were scrapped just before the Austrian race due to several protests and criticisms from DTM teams.\n\nDriver aids like ABS, traction control, launch control, active suspension, cockpit-adjustable anti-roll bar and partial car-to-team radio communications are currently prohibited except fuel mapping and Drag Reduction Systems, which can only be used for 12 laps in 2018 when near enough.\n\nThe safety is very important for all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters drivers. Race suit, Nomex underwear, gloves, socks, boots and headsocks are requiredly by driver. Meanwhile the helmets for all Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters drivers are made of carbon-fibre shell, lined with energy-absorbing foam and Nomex padding. The helmet type must meet or exceed FIA 8860-2010 certification approval as a homologation for all auto racing drivers. HANS device are required by Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters drivers since 2002 season that meets or exceeds FIA 8858-2010 certification approval. Earpieces also required by Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters drivers to improve communication listening.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters car is a single-seat touring car racing. For much of their history Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars have more different to Formula One cars, although there have traditionally been several key differences between the two.\n\nOver the years both Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters and Formula One race schedules are traditionally held in permanent racing courses. The increased stress and speed of these tracks mean that the cars tended to be heavier, wider and have shorter wheelbases than F1 cars (increasing stability but decreasing agility).\n\nWhen the weight of the driver is factored in, a Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters car weighed over 55% more than a Formula One Car. The minimum weight for a Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters car was adjusted from based on the weight of the driver compared to the field average; with the driver included, all cars had a minimum weight of (with a Balance of Performance weight allowance range of . A Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters car piloted by 82 kg Maxime Martin (the heaviest driver in the series and 10 kg heavier than the field average) had to have weighed at least 1,080 kg when empty. The minimum weight of a Formula One Car, including the driver, currently . This difference of is just over 55% of the 2017 F1 car's weight.\n\nBeginning in the inaugural season of the reborn DTM that Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars used the naturally-aspirated 90-degree V8 engines but that time in 2000 Formula One were used the naturally-aspirated various bank angle V10 engines until end of 2005. Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars had up to more compared to their Formula One counterparts, as early as in the 70s the cars had in excess of 1,000 hp. Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars having on demand and F1 cars having around 700 hp to 840 hp in 3.5L NA (1989–94) era, around 700 hp to 1000 hp for final specs in 3.0L NA V10 (1995–2005) era and around 770 hp to 840 hp in 2.4L NA V8 (2006–2013) era and currently over 800hp (2017 spec combustion engine alone) with an additional 160hp from the electric motors from their 1.6L V6 turbo-hybrid-electro powerunit. The turbo used mainly to improve the spectacle rather than lap-times with the so-called 'power-to-pass' or 'push-to-pass' system giving drivers an increased amount of power for a limited duration during the race. Another reason for retaining the turbocharger especially in Formula-1 is the muffling effect it has on the exhaust note, which helps keep the cars inside noise-limits, to meet FIA regulations and rules at the many city street races in European cities on the racing season schedule.\n\nDeutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars used unleaded gasoline for fuel rather than leaded gasoline, and refuelling had always been banned during the race since 2012 season. This is a legacy of an incident at the second Hockenheimring race in 2008 that involving Marcus Winkelhock due to fuel spill after over refuelling. Until 1994, when refuelling was re-introduced to F1 (and banned again from 2010 onwards), the coupling for the refuelling hose was a notable difference between Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars (canister refueler) and Formula cars (hose refueler). Refuelling were allowed in DTM from 2000 to 2011 seasons.\n\nDeutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars has flat undersides to improve stability. F1 banned sculpted undersides in a bid to lower cornering speeds for 1983. In an effort to create better passing opportunities, the new spec Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars being introduced in 2012 will generate nearly 50% of the total downforce of the car with flat underside tunnels versus the front splitter and rear wing. This will reduce turbulent air behind the cars, enabling easier overtaking.\n\nUnlike in F1, Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters teams were obliged to construct their own chassis for only main teams, and had tended to buy cars constructed by independent suppliers such as Audi, BMW and Mercedes-AMG. However Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters had essentially been a semi-spec series since 2005, with all teams favoring both Audi and Mercedes-Benz cars mainly because of Opel's withdrawal after 2005 season.\n\nThe Formula One Car is a more expensive and technology-centric platform than a DTM car. This was even the case during the new coupé era since 2012 season. At this time global automotive manufacturers Audi, BMW and Mercedes-AMG vied for dominance. Since Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters's restructuring, a desire to keep costs down and the existence of two car manufacturer helped create a series with far more parity than Formula One in 2006.\n\nFor top speeds, Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters cars are slower than Formula One car in fact (DTM cars have in a normal tracks meanwhile Formula One cars have in a high-speed tracks such as Monza).\n\nThis is the evolution of DTM points scoring system history since reborn.\n\n\n\nIn the case of a tie, DTM will determine the champion based on the most first-place finishes. If there is still a tie, DTM will determine the champion by the most second-place finishes, then the most third-place finishes, etc., until a champion is determined. DTM will apply the same system to other ties in the rankings at the close of the season and at any other time during the season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55856884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55856884", "title": "Earth Escape Explorer", "text": "Earth Escape Explorer\n\nEarth Escape Explorer (CU-E) is a nanosatellite of the 6-Unit CubeSat format that will demonstrate long-distance communications while in heliocentric orbit. \n\nThe \"Earth Escape Explorer\" spacecraft is a student-driven effort at University of Colorado Boulder to design and build the spacecraft as part of the NASA CubeQuest Challenge. It will be one of thirteen CubeSats to be carried with the Orion EM-1 mission into a heliocentric orbit in cislunar space on the maiden flight of the Space Launch System, scheduled to launch in 2019.\n\nThe CU-E team is pursuing four different CubeQuest prizes: Largest aggregate data volume; most error-free data blocks; the most distant communications from Earth; and spacecraft longevity.\n\nOnce deployed in the vicinity of the Moon, CU-E will use a lunar gravity assist to propel itself into heliocentric orbit, trailing the Earth and slowly distancing itself over time. By the end of its one-year mission, CU-E is planned to be as far as 27 million kilometers from Earth. The spacecraft will use a commercial 6U CubeSat satellite body (bus) called XB1, measuring about 10×20×30 cm. The mass is about . Electric power will be provided by solar panels and stored in rechargeable lithium batteries.\n\nThe mission is focused upon advancing deep space CubeSat communication techniques using an innovative reflective array antenna, an X band transmitter for downlink and a C band transmitter for uplink. The antenna array is \"planar\", meaning all of the elements are in one plane, yet provide a large aperture for beam steering and make possible high data rates. ATLAS Ground Networks will be the ground station for their uplink and downlink communications. Their telecomm package is called High-Rate CubeSat Communication System (HRCCS).\n\nCU-E does not feature an on board propulsion system, and will be using solar radiation pressure for reaction wheel desaturation and attitude control (orientation).\n\n"}
{"id": "12729762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12729762", "title": "Elmer Edward Solly", "text": "Elmer Edward Solly\n\nElmer Edward Solly (September 5, 1945 – November 30, 2007) was convicted of manslaughter in 1970 for the death of two-year-old Christopher Welsh. Solly escaped from custody in 1974 and spent the next 27 years living under numerous pseudonyms. At the time of his arrest in May 2001, he was living in Florida as Daniel \"Danny C\" Catalano, a supposed former member of the American rock 'n' roll group Sha Na Na; in fact, he never had any ties to Sha Na Na.\n\nOn the evening of July 25, 1969, Solly, in a drunken rage, severely beat his girlfriend's two-year-old son, Christopher Welsh, who died of his injuries. Solly turned himself in to local police a few days later. He was convicted of manslaughter on April 16, 1970, and incarcerated at Trenton State Prison. While Solly was in Trenton State Prison, his mother and grandmother began a letter-writing campaign alleging mistreatment on the part of prison guards.\n\nAs a result of the campaign, Solly was transferred to medium-security Leesburg State Prison in 1974. There, he befriended a prison psychologist, who convinced officials to allow Solly to visit his mother. During the third visit, in June 1974, Solly was accompanied only by the psychologist. Solly asked to be allowed to visit his girlfriend, and he used the opportunity to escape. His escape was not reported to police for six hours, giving Solly sufficient time to disappear.\n\nImmediately after his escape, Solly began using a series of assumed identities to evade capture. In 1975, he was arrested in Philadelphia for receiving stolen goods, but because he used a fake name, police did not realize who he was. Similarly, he provided a fake name when he was stopped for a traffic violation in 1979 and avoided detainment. Detectives had few leads in the case, and received no cooperation from Solly's family, particularly his mother, Edna Bolt, who consistently denied knowing her son's whereabouts. Eventually, Solly's escape was considered a cold case.\n\nSolly eventually made his way to Florida, where he assumed the identity of Vinnie Taylor, lead guitarist of the rock 'n' roll revival group Sha Na Na. The real Taylor died of a heroin overdose in 1974, but using forged documents, including a Social Security card, a birth certificate, and a baptism certificate, Solly successfully passed himself off as Taylor. Solly, posing as Taylor, claimed that Taylor's death had been staged and so he took on the new stage name of Daniel \"Danny C\" Catalano, and began performing and recording under that name. Sha Na Na discovered the fraud and demanded that Solly cease performing as Danny C. When Solly refused, the group considered filing a lawsuit, but decided not to do so in order to deny Solly the free publicity the case would generate.\n\nIn 1999, New Jersey State Police, Louis Kinkle, and Cumberland County Sheriff's Office investigators reopened the Solly case. They enlisted the aid of forensic artist Frank Bender, who used 25-year-old photographs of Solly to create an image of what he would look like currently. In March 2000, Edna Bolt died, after which other members of Solly's family began cooperating with investigators. Bolt's husband Harry told police that Solly was living in Florida as a singer using the name Danny C. A web search revealed a website for Danny C, billing himself as the \"Bad Boy\" of Sha Na Na. The site featured a picture of Danny C that closely resembled the image produced by Bender.\n\nBased on this information, authorities traveled first to Orlando and then to St. Pete Beach. They discovered Solly fishing on a pier near his apartment complex. U.S. Marshals arrested Solly on May 10, 2001, and he was returned to New Jersey on May 18. He was convicted on October 5 for his 1974 escape and was incarcerated at Riverfront State Prison in Camden to serve that sentence and the remainder of his manslaughter sentence. Solly was granted parole in August 2003 for good behavior and time served. He was last reported to be living in a welfare motel in New Jersey before his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "45236029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45236029", "title": "Euclid Tsakalotos", "text": "Euclid Tsakalotos\n\nEuclid Tsakalotos (, officially Ευκλείδης Στεφάνου Τσακαλώτος, transcr. \"Efklidis Stefanou Tsakalotos\", ; born 1960) is a left-wing Greek economist and politician who has been Minister of Finance of Greece since 2015. He is also a member of the Central Committee of Syriza and has represented Athens B in the Hellenic Parliament since May 2012.\n\nTsakalotos was born in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, but moved to the United Kingdom at a young age. He went to St Paul's School in London before studying Philosophy, Politics and Economics at The Queen's College, Oxford. He went on to complete a master's degree at the Institute of Development Studies, attached to the University of Sussex and returned to Oxford to complete a doctorate in economics under the supervision of Włodzimierz Brus, which he did in 1989. From 1989 to 1993, Tsakalotos worked at the University of Kent, where he met his partner, Heather D. Gibson. He moved to Greece, and taught at the Athens University of Economics and Business from 1994 to 2010, becoming a professor of economics. Since 2010, he has been a professor of economics at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. He has written a number of books in both Greek and English and has been published in a range of different academic journals.\n\nA student member of the Communist Party of Greece, Tsakalotos joined Synaspismos in the early 1990s and was elected to the Central Committee of Syriza in 2004 shortly after their formation. He was first elected as a Member of the Hellenic Parliament for Athens B in the May 2012 legislative election and has been re-elected in every election since. In opposition from 2012 to 2015, he was Syriza's shadow finance minister. When Syriza entered government in January 2015, Tsakalotos was appointed as an Alternate Minister within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In April, he took over as head of Greece's negotiating team on the third bailout package. On 6 July 2015, following Yanis Varoufakis's resignation, Tsakalotos was appointed as Minister of Finance. He was re-appointed in September 2015 following the snap legislative election.\n\nTsakalotos was born in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, in 1960. He is the son of Stefanos Tsakalotos, a civil engineer who worked in the shipping industry, and the family relocated to the United Kingdom in 1965 when the younger Tsakolotos was five years old. He attended St Paul's School, London from 1973 to 1978. In St Paul's School's alumni magazine, he praised his former schoolmaster Keith Perry, saying that the teacher did \"much to bolster [his] self-confidence\". During his time at the school, he co-founded its Economics and Politics Society (known as Polecon) with his close friend Owen Tudor, who now works for the Trades Union Congress.\n\nTsakalotos went on to read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at The Queen's College, Oxford. Whilst at the Queen's College, Tsakalotos was an admirer of both Gerald Cohen and Andrew Glyn, a Marxist political philosopher and Marxian economist respectively, who both taught at the university. He also took part in student protests against Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government. During his time at university, he became a supporter of Irish republicanism, a view he expressed in his visit to the Sinn Féin ardfheis in March 2015. One of his university friends at this time, Yannis Stournaras, later became a Greek finance minister and served as Governor of the Bank of Greece. Following graduation, he completed a master's degree (MPhil) at the Institute of Development Studies, attached to the University of Sussex. He then returned to Oxford to complete a doctorate (DPhil) in economics, studying at Mansfield College. He completed this doctorate in 1989 under the supervision of Włodzimierz Brus, with his thesis, \"\", later being published as a book.\n\nAfter the completion of his doctorate, Tsakalotos entered into an academic career. His first role was as a research associate at the University of Kent, from 1989 to 1990. From October 1990 to June 1993, he taught at the university as a lecturer. In 1993, Tsakalotos and his wife moved to Greece, and in October 1994 he began teaching at the Athens University of Economics and Business. In September 2010, he became a full professor of economics at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, more commonly referred to simply as the University of Athens.\n\nIn his capacity as an academic, Tsakalotos served as a member of the executive committee of the Hellenic Federation of University Teachers' Associations (POSDEP). In the mid-2000s, Tsakalotos led his students in a several months-long protest against proposed reforms to the Greek education system. Thanos Tsouknidas, an accountant that knew Tsakalotos at the time, said: \"He was there, involved in the struggle. We were fighting together.\" His active role in the teachers' union brought him popularity, and according to a former student, his classes were often packed.\n\nTsakalotos has written a number of books and articles on Greek and international economic policies, alone and in cooperation with other academics and writers. He has co-authored a number of works with his wife, who has also served as editor for some of the works that he has written alone.\n\nAs a student at the University of Oxford, Tsakalotos joined the Communist Party of Greece (Interior), a eurocommunist party that had split from the main Communist Party of Greece, a Marxist–Leninist party, in 1968. In the early 1990s, shortly after moving to Greece, Tsakalotos became a member of Synaspismos, a radical left-wing political party, which was to become the largest constituent party of Syriza. Syriza itself was formed in 2004, ahead of that year's legislative election, as a coalition of 13 left-wing political parties in Greece. Tsakalotos was elected to their Central Committee in December 2004. However, he also remained a prominent member of Synaspismos and served on both their Central Political Committee and their Political Secretariat until a July 2013 party congress, during which Syriza voted to become an independent political party and for all component parties to disband, including Synaspismos.\n\nShortly after Syriza was formed, Tsakalotos stood as their candidate for the prefecture of Preveza in the 2004 legislative election. The Greek government-debt crisis effectively began in 2009 and was a backdrop for Tsakalotos' involvement in the creation of Syriza's economic policy. Tsakalotos has been credited as the \"brains behind\" the policy, and as a member of Syriza's \"economics quartet\", alongside John Milios, Giorgos Stathakis and Yannis Dragasakis. He has also been credited as one author of Syriza's Thessaloniki Programme, a manifesto which proposed a set of policies oriented towards reversing austerity measures while maintaining a balanced budget.\n\nIn the May 2012 legislative election, Tsakalotos was elected as a Member of the Hellenic Parliament (MP) representing Athens B, the largest electoral district in Greece. The election saw Syriza win 16.8% of the vote, placing second behind New Democracy, who won 18.8% of the vote, and ahead of PASOK, with 13%. Alexis Tsipras, the party leader, was unable to form a coalition, but also refused to enter into one with PASOK, forcing the country to new elections in June 2012, where Tsakalotos won re-election as an MP. Tsakalotos said that Syriza had a focus on the European Union, and told \"The New York Times\" that a Europe imposing austerity on its citizens for the actions of banks \"isn't the Europe that the original inspirators of Europe imagined\". New Democracy won a plurality of seats in June 2012 and formed a coalition government with PASOK and Democratic Left, making Syriza the largest opposition party with 78 seats. Tsakalotos' role in opposition was as the spokesperson for economic affairs in Tsipras' shadow cabinet.\n\nIn opposition from 2012 to 2015, Tsakalotos was a key proponent of Syriza's economic policy. He argued that Greece needed something similar to the Marshall Plan, with a payment scheme that took into account the strength of the economy. He told Bloomberg News that \"People say that we are responsible for the situation we find ourselves in. OK, sure. But I think that Germany will find it hard to argue that in 1953 [at the time of the London Agreement on German External Debts] they were completely blameless.\" He appeared in various international media as a spokesperson for Syriza and making the case for their policies: among others, he was interviewed on \"Lateline\", an Australian news programme on ABC, by SBS, another Australian news channel, was quoted by the BBC and Bloomberg, and also appeared in an Intelligence Squared debate arguing for the motion 'Angela Merkel is Destroying Europe'.\n\nSeptember 2013 saw his book, co-authored with Christos Laskos, published by Pluto Press. \"Crucible of Resistance\" was described as offering \"badly needed correctives\" to the prevalent ideas on the Greek situation. The book addressed why the European debt crisis began, with a particular focus on Greece. It argued that the idea Greece was exceptional was a myth and that the crisis had revealed the inadequacies of neoliberalism and social democracy. Tsakalotos was criticised by elements of the Greek media in 2013 when he was accused of living a wealthy lifestyle while criticising austerity in public. He was dubbed the 'aristocrat of the left', and one newspaper published front-page criticism arguing that Tsakalotos' own family wealth came from investments made by companies such as JPMorgan Chase and BlackRock.\n\nIn December 2014, the Hellenic Parliament did not approve the new President with the supermajority required, and so a snap election was called for the end of January 2015. A few days before the 2015 election took place, Tsakalotos was quizzed on Syriza's economic policies by a number of economists, debt campaigners and investment analysts at the London School of Economics. Tsakalotos said there was a need for fiscal space, meaning 6–7 billion Euros a year to spend on an expansionary fiscal policy. He also said that they would cancel the austerity budgets already agreed with the European Union (EU) and International Monetary Fund (IMF), pay back the loans from the IMF and focus on rescheduling and writing off the loans from the EU.\n\nIn the legislative election on 25 January 2015, Syriza won a near-majority of seats, with 149 out of 300, and so formed a coalition with the right-wing anti-austerity party Independent Greeks. Tsipras became prime minister and formed his cabinet on 27 January, appointing Tsakalotos as Alternate Minister for International Economic Relations, subordinate to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Nikos Kotzias. Tsakalotos described his role as follows: \"[It] means coordinating our approach to promoting exports and attracting investment. It also means upgrading our economic diplomacy which needs to go beyond traditional sectors, for instance exporting olive oil and importing capital goods.\"\n\nTsakalotos represented Syriza at the Sinn Féin ardfheis on 7 March 2015 and gave a speech on the conference floor, during which he said that both Sinn Féin and Syriza are \"part of a great realignment in European politics\" towards left-wing anti-austerity parties. The leader of Sinn Féin, Gerry Adams, embraced Tsakalotos on the stage following the speech. Tsakalotos then spent several hours afterwards in talks with senior members of Sinn Féin. The \"Financial Times\" later commented on this, saying it was a \"moment of bonding\" between Syriza and Sinn Féin.\n\nTsakalotos began to gain a more prominent role in the renegotiations with Greece's creditors over a new bailout plan, which at the time were being led by Yanis Varoufakis, the Minister of Finance. On 27 April, Tsakalotos was the made the coordinator of the Greek team negotiating with the creditor's representatives over this new bailout plan. This move was largely seen as sidelining Yanis Varoufakis, the Minister of Finance, but the markets reacted positively.\n\nIn June 2015, lenders warned that time was running out for a deal to be agreed on a new bailout plan. On 17 June, Tsakalotos warned that Greece would not be able to repay its €1.6bn loan from the IMF at the end of the month unless a new bailout plan was agreed. The deadline for the renewal of Greece's bailout package was also looming at the end of June. On 26 June, an emergency cabinet meeting led to the calling of a referendum on the bailout deal proposed by the creditors. Capital controls and a bank holiday were announced on 28 June, with the Eurozone refusing an extension of the bailout plan and Greece defaulting on its loan to the IMF on 30 June.\n\nThe bailout referendum on 5 July resulted in a 'No' vote to the adoption of the bailout package. The following day, Varoufakis resigned as finance minister. As he left the finance ministry, he suggested that Tsakalotos was likely to succeed him, and Tsakalotos was subsequently sworn-in later that day. In the process of this, Tsakalotos relinquished his previous ministerial position of Alternate Minister for International Economic Relations. Tsakalotos was noted for his differences with Varoufakis, for example, the \"Financial Times\" noted that he \"could hardly be more different from his flamboyant predecessor\". At a press conference shortly following his appointment, Tsakalotos said: \"I cannot hide from you that I am quite nervous. I am not taking on this job at the easiest point in Greek history.\"\n\nTsakalotos' first official meeting as Minister of Finance was on 7 July and was an emergency meeting of the Eurogroup following the vote in the referendum. Tsakalotos brought a note with him that reminded him to display \"no triumphalism\" after the 'No' vote in the Greek bailout referendum. Following the talks, he was described as \"Much better than Varoufakis\". Greece was given 48 hours to agree to a new bailout plan or it would face being forced to leave the eurozone on 8 July, leading to a plan being submitted by the Greek government on 10 July. In a nine-hour Eurogroup meetings on 11 July, Tsakalotos was noted for his calmness in the \"tough, even violent\" atmosphere of the talks by observers.\n\nThe government backed the tenth austerity package which went before Parliament on 16 July. The package was the first in a series of prior actions necessary for negotiations to open up over bailout funding worth 86 billion euros. The package came in two parts, with the first being approved on 16 July, and the second on 23 July. The legislation included a rise in VAT across several goods and services, the abolition of the VAT discount for Greek islands, a corporation tax rise from 26% to 29%, a luxury tax on cars, boats and swimming pools, an end to early retirement by 2022, and an increase in the retirement age to 67. Tsakalotos said on 16 July debate, \"I don't know if we did the right thing, however, I do know that we felt like we had no other choice but do what we did.\" The contentious vote was opposed by 109 out of 201 members of the Central Committee of Syriza, and 32 Syriza MPs voted against the proposals on 16 July. It also led to a cabinet reshuffle on 17 July, but Tsakalotos retained his role as Minister of Finance.\n\nThe second set of measures were debated and voted on 23 July, with Tsakalotos beginning the debate, and urging a vote in favour of the measures. Tsakalotos was criticised for his speech, with Ovenden writing that \"[his] argument made him sound little different from the kind of kindergarten exchanges which had characterised Pasok and New Democracy over the years.\" However, the proposals passed parliament, clearing the way for a new bailout deal to be negotiated with Greece's creditors.\n\nA new bailout deal, the Third Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece, was agreed in August 2015, and the first set of measures went to vote on 14 August, in the form of the eleventh austerity package. Tsakalotos opened the debate, calling the deal a \"very tough agreement with many thorns.\" During the debate, he engaged heavily with the acting President of New Democracy, Vangelis Meimarakis, who criticised Tsakalotos for being \"provocative\". Towards the end of the debate, Zoi Konstantopoulou, the Speaker of the Hellenic Parliament, raised so many procedural questions and objections that Tsakalotos missed the 9:30 am vote to catch a flight to Brussels. More than 40 Syriza MPs voted against the plans, and it was suggested that Tsipras may resign, bringing the prospect of another snap election in September. In Brussels later that day, final negotiations were concluded for the Third Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece.\n\nOn 20 August, Tsipras announced the resignation of the Syriza-ANEL government, and that a legislative election was scheduled for 20 September. Tsakalotos and the rest of the cabinet remained as lame duck ministers whilst opposition parties attempted to form their own government. However, the opposition parties failed to form a government and Vassiliki Thanou-Christophilou was appointed as an interim Prime Minister on 27 August. On 28 August, Thanou-Christophilou's caretaker cabinet was sworn in, with George Chouliarakis being sworn in as the interim Minister of Finance.\n\nReuters reported that Tsakalotos was considering not running in the September 2015 legislative election, as he did not want to have to implement the bailout agreement. However, these fears were assuaged by Alexis Tsipras when he said there was no doubt that Tsakalotos would stand in the election. He also claimed that, during the election campaign, without Tsakalotos' involvement, there would have been no bailout package. In recognition of that, Tsakalotos was made to head the list for Syriza in Athens B. In an interview during the campaign, Tsakalotos admitted that the Greek government had suffered \"defeat\" during negotiations with creditors, implying that some responsibility for this lay with his predecessor, Varoufakis.\n\nFollowing the re-election of the Syriza-ANEL coalition, Tsakalotos was tipped to resume the role of Minister of Finance, however the state media reported that he was reluctant to do so. Nonetheless, he was reappointed as Minister of Finance on 23 September, as part of the Tsipras' second cabinet. Chouliarakis, the interim Minister of Finance, was retained in the finance ministry as an Alternate Minister of Finance. Later in September, in an interview with the \"Financial Times\", Tsakalotos said that it was \"absolutely critical that we get something on debt relief.\" He added: \"By the second quarter of 2016, if we get a positive review, bank recapitalisation and debt relief, I don’t see any reason why there shouldn’t be a return to growth.\" He also said that the new government would make serious attempts to crack down on tax evasion: \"It will be a central aspect of our policies, which will determine the success of the government, because it’s the only way the Greek people will accept difficult measures that show we’re all in the same boat.\"\n\nAt the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank between 9 and 11 October 2015, Tsakalotos had a number of meetings with high-level attendees. On 8 January 2016, Tsakalotos began a tour of European cities, including Rome, Lisbon, Paris, Helsinki and Berlin, meeting with finance ministers, prior to a Eurogroup meeting on 14 January. In February 2016, Spyros Economides, Director of the Hellenic Observatory, commented on Tsakalotos' performance as Minister of Finance: \"In some ways, he has done an extremely good job because the mess left by his predecessor both in substantive and presentational terms was horrific.\" Tsakalotos visited the European Parliament in March 2016 and told MEPs of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that he welcomed their role in monitoring the reforms.\n\nThe first review of the bailout programme carried out by Greece's lenders stalled in February 2016 over pension reforms. Speaking to \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", Tsakalotos urged the lenders to complete the review by 1 May as \"This question of time is important if we want to move from a vicious to a virtuous circle.\" He wrote to other members of the Eurogroup on 6 May to appeal for their support against extra demands for austerity that, he argued, were beyond the mandate of the Greek government.\n\nSpeaking in October 2016, Tsakalotos said that he wanted the IMF to join the bailout programme and that Wolfgang Schäuble's position on debt relief for Greece was untenable. Schäuble said that the bailout programme \"will work, the IMF will be on board and there won't be much debt relief.\" However, Tsakalotos said that \"Something has to give there, and I think deep down in his heart he understands that. He's a wily politician. He's been around for a long time. I can't believe he doesn't understand you can't have all those three things.\"\n\nTsakalotos has been described as a \"Marxist\", and Ovenden has written that \"While Keynes is the main economic reference point for Varoufakis, who opposed the Brussels deal, for Tsakalotos, who signed it, Marx is more that guide to economic and political analysis.\" Paul Mason described Tsakalotos as a \"classic Marxist of the New Left,\" continuing that \"Tsakalotos comes from that school of Marxism which learned from the 1970s onwards to make compromises with capitalist reality.\" In an interview with the \"Financial Times\" in September 2015, following his re-appointment, he said: \"I’m one of the government’s most left-wing ministers, politically speaking. However, I want to do things like the recapitalisation of the banks. I can do things that aren’t particularly left-wing.\"\n\nTsakalotos is also a leading member of the Group of 53, a prominent faction within Syriza. One report names him as the leader of the Group. The Group was founded in mid-2014 and stands ideologically between the Left Platform and Alexis Tsipras's core backers. After the Left Platform split from Syriza to Popular Unity, the Group of 53 became the most left-wing faction within Syriza.\n\nTsakalotos has been described as a \"Revolutionary Europeanist\", as he supports European Union integration but not its capitalist principles. In one article, he wrote: \"[the] European Monetary Union has created a split between [the] core and periphery, and relations between the two are hierarchical and discriminatory.\" Tsakalotos has also advocated for a \"change in [the] architecture\" of the Eurozone. He has also suggested that the EU should have a focus on the development of member countries, which is what requires this change in architecture. In a May 2012 interview on \"Lateline\", Tsakalotos said: \"At the moment the Eurozone is at risk, not because of the Greek radical left – it's at risk because it has an architecture, a financial and economic architecture that is evidently unable to deal with the crisis in the Eurozone, and we think part of the solution is a change in that architecture.\" In 2011, he cited a move towards fiscal federalism as a potential solution to the EU's economic architecture.\n\nTsakalotos is married to Heather D. Gibson, a Scottish economist currently serving as Director-Advisor to the Bank of Greece and his ofttimes research and writing partner. They met when Tsakalotos was teaching at the University of Kent and they later married in Canterbury. The couple has three children and maintains two homes in Kifisia, along with an office in Athens and a holiday home in Preveza, all courtesy of a large estate belonging to Tsakalotos' father. Through his father, Euclid Tsakalotos is the first cousin twice-removed (great-grandnephew) of Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos, who served as Chief of the Hellenic Army General Staff from 1951 to 1952. Tsakalotos has been quoted as saying that his great-granduncle fought on the \"other side, the wrong side\" in the Greek Civil War, and was worried that his great-grandnephew would become a \"liberal, [but] certainly not anything further to the left.\"\n\nTsakalotos is a fan of PAOK FC and was given a shirt with Dimitar Berbatov's name on the back by Alexis Tsipras. When he lived in the UK, he was a supporter of Leeds United.\n\n\nTsakalotos has published a number of articles and papers, including several co-authored with his wife, Heather Gibson, and others. He has been published in a range of Academic journals, such as the \"Cambridge Journal of Economics\", the \"Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics\" and the \"Oxford Review of Economic Policy\". For a full list, see the link to his page on Academia.edu in the \"External links\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25068155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25068155", "title": "Europeans for Financial Reform", "text": "Europeans for Financial Reform\n\nEuropeans for Financial Reform (EFFR) is a coalition dedicated to effecting reform in the financial and banking sectors. EFFR was created in Brussels on September 21, 2009, just over a year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the beginning of the financial crisis. \n\nEFFR pursues a campaign called \"Regulate Global Finance Now!\", which was launched September 21, 2009. The goals of this campaign are to raise awareness of the need for financial reform and to get governments to do adopt following reforms:\n\nThe founding members of the coalition were the Global Progressive Forum, European Trade Union Confederation, the Foundation for European Progressive Studies, Solidar and UNI Global Union. \n\nEuropeans for Financial Reform is open to the membership of other NGOs, trade unions and think tanks, as well as individuals. It is not officially linked to any political party, although politicians can join the campaign as individuals. One high-profile politician involved in the campaign is former Prime Minister of Denmark Poul Nyrup Rasmussen \n\nEuropeans for Financial Reform is associated with its counterpart in the United States, Americans for Financial Reform.\n\n"}
{"id": "185703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185703", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1979", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1979\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1979 was the 24th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It was held on 31 March 1979 in Jerusalem, Israel, following the country's win at the 1978 edition. The event was staged at the International Convention Center. The presenters were Daniel Pe'er and Yardena Arazi.\n\nThe winner was Israel with the song \"Hallelujah\", performed by Gali Atari and Milk and Honey. Therefore, this was Israel's consecutive second win, and overall second win, in the contest. 19 countries participated, the 20 countries that took part at the previous 1978 Contest, except for Turkey which was also going to participate but eventually withdrew its entry for political reasons. Yugoslavia, who missed the 1978 Contest, also didn't want to take part nor transmit the 1979 show for political reasons. As well as being broadcast live in the 19 competing countries, the contest was broadcast in Turkey, Romania, Hong Kong and Iceland.\n\nAs of 2018, it was the last time the contest was held in March.\n\nLocated on a plateau in the Judean Mountains between the Mediterranean and the Dead Sea, Jerusalem is one of the oldest cities in the world. In the ancient cuneiform, Jerusalem was called \"Urusalima\", meaning \"City of Peace\", during the early Canaanite period (approximately 2400 BC). It is considered holy to the three major Abrahamic religions—Judaism, Christianity and Islam.\n\nEach country had a jury who awarded 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 point(s) for their top ten songs. This was the last year in which the points were announced via order of appearance, as opposed to order of preference.\n\nThe voting was extremely close. Israel gained a good lead in the early stages of the voting, but Spain eventually caught up and took a good lead themselves. At the close of the penultimate jury's votes, Israel were one point behind Spain, and only the Spanish jury had yet to give their votes. Spain ended up giving Israel 10 points, causing the crowd to erupt into enormous cheers.\n\nAt one point before the contest Turkey was going to participate. The country would have appeared 11th on stage (between Israel and France), represented by Maria Rita Epik and 21. Peron with the song \"\" (\"I'm Loving\"). However Turkey was forced to retire from the contest under pressure from Arab states who objected to a predominantly Muslim country taking part in a contest held in Israel, but they however took part in Jerusalem 20 years later.\n\nThe contest saw the return of four artists who had participated in previous editions of the contest: France's representative Anne-Marie David was the winner for Luxembourg in 1973, Netherlands' Xandra represented the country in 1972 and 1976, Norway's Anita Skorgan represented the country in 1977, and Switzerland's Peter, Sue and Marc represented the country in 1971 and 1976.\n\nFor each nation's performance, the orchestra was conducted by the following:\n\nThe following tables reflect the confirmed, verified scores, which were adjusted after the live broadcast. During the voting announcement, due to a misunderstanding by the presenter Yardena Arazi, Spain appeared to award 10 points to both Portugal and Israel and these scores were added to the scoreboard. After the programme, verification confirmed that Portugal should only have received six points, leaving the total Portuguese score reduced by four points to 64.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the final:\n"}
{"id": "10625495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10625495", "title": "Eurovision Young Musicians 1986", "text": "Eurovision Young Musicians 1986\n\nThe Eurovision Young Musicians 1986 was the third edition of the Eurovision Young Musicians, held at the Koncerthuset, in Copenhagen, Denmark on 27 May 1986. Organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Danmarks Radio (DR), musicians from five countries participated in the televised final. Despite the contest being held in Copenhagen, host country Denmark failed to qualify for the final alongside Germany, Austria, Israel, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, Sweden, Netherlands and Italy. The participant artists could not be older than 19 by the time of the contest. The finalists were all accompanied by the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra under the leadership of Hans Graf.\n\nFrance's Sandrine Lazarides won the contest, with Switzerland and Finland placing second and third respectively.\n\nThe Koncerthuset at Radiohuset in Copenhagen, Denmark, was the host venue for the 1986 edition of the Eurovision Young Musicians.\n\nRadiohuset (literally \"Radio House\") is the former headquarters of national Danish broadcaster DR, located on Rosenørns Allé in Frederiksberg, Copenhagen. The building complex was inaugurated in 1945 to a Functionalist design by Vilhelm Lauritzen and later expanded in 1958 and 1972. Vacated by DR when DR Byen was inaugurated in 2006, the buildings now house the Royal Danish Academy of Music as well as the Museum of Music. The complex also contains a 1,200 seat concert hall, Koncerthuset.\n\nAnette Faaborg was the host of the 1986 contest. Each participating country were able to send male or female artists who were no older than 19 years of age, to represent them by playing a classical piece of their choice, accompanied by the Danish Radio Symphony Orchestra under the leadership of Hans Graf.\n\nA total of fifteen countries took part in the preliminary round of the 1986 contest, of which five qualified to the televised grand final. The following countries failed to qualify.\n\nAwards were given to the top three countries. The table below highlights these using \"gold, silver, and bronze\". The placing results of the remaining participants is unknown and never made public by the European Broadcasting Union.\n\nThe jury members consisted of the following:\n\nEBU members from the following countries broadcast the final round.\n\n"}
{"id": "228009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228009", "title": "Facilitation (business)", "text": "Facilitation (business)\n\nFacilitation in business, organizational development (OD), and in consensus decision-making refers to the process of designing and running a successful meeting.\n\nFacilitation concerns itself with all the tasks needed to run a productive and impartial meeting. Facilitation serves the needs of any group who are meeting with a common purpose, whether it be making a decision, solving a problem, or simply exchanging ideas and information. It does not lead the group, nor does it try to distract or to entertain. A slightly different interpretation focuses more specifically on a group that is engaged in experiential learning. In particular this is associated with active learning and concepts of tutelary authority. This is covered in-depth in the research work of John Heron at the University of Surrey and the International Centre for Co-operative Inquiry.\n\nThese are all closely associated with the idea of facilitation as a tool of (workplace) empowerment.\n\nIt is important to note that the tasks and responsibilities listed below do not need to be covered by a single facilitator. The role of the facilitator is often shared by multiple people, for instance one person may arrange the logistics before the meeting, another person may keep time and monitor the agenda during the meeting, and a third person may be responsible for recording agreements.\n\n\nA meeting usually means everyone is together in the same room at the same time and this is the major situation in which facilitation is practiced. With the introduction of modern telecommunications the field has grown to embrace other forms of meetings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3862572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862572", "title": "Freaknik", "text": "Freaknik\n\nFreaknik was an annual spring break meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, primarily of students from historically black colleges and universities. Begun in 1983 as a small picnic near the Atlanta University Center, it was initially sponsored by the DC Metro Club and was typically held during the third weekend in April to coincide with the schools of the Atlanta University Center's Reading Day. The event increased in size and popularity in the 1990s with dancing, drinking, parties, a basketball tournament, rap sessions, a film festival and a job fair.\n\nFreaknik was immortalized in Tom Wolfe’s novel A Man in Full, 1998.\n\nFreaknik was conceived in March 1983 in a dorm room on the second-floor of Thurman Hall at Morehouse College when Pat Stanback, a member of the DC Metro Club, was challenged by a member of the California Club about who would throw the biggest party. Pat brought the idea to the President of the DC Metro club and they voted on the name and sponsored the first Freaknik in April, 1983 at Piedmont Park in Atlanta. The first few years alternated between John White Park and Adams Park with them announcing the location at the last minute in hopes of evading police.\n\nMany students from the AUC, Atlanta University Center, attended and partied to music provided by Flash Attack Inc. DJ Bam Bam Barney and DJ Flash did the first 2 annual gatherings. As it grew, the festival attracted upwards of 250,000 revelers to the city. However, as the freaknik grew in attendance Atlantans' reception of the festival was mixed. Many residents had attended and enjoyed Freaknik since it was started. Otherwise, Freaknik went largely unnoticed by most of the city.\n\nThe problems with Freaknik began in 1993, when the number of people coming to Atlanta for the event suddenly doubled to more than 80,000.\n\nMany residents believe the City of Atlanta was caught off guard in 1993 by the increased number of people who came to the city for Freaknik. In some areas, the massive increase in cars on the road caused traffic to come to a halt, and the revelers got out of their cars and danced in the streets. This in turn caused panic in some areas where people could not get home from their jobs, and they were trapped in areas where many revelers started harassing and yelling obscenities at residents. There were also several reports of violence, looting, rapes and other sexual assaults. All this showed Freaknik in a negative light, and Atlanta residents demanded that the city get control of the event.\n\nMany Atlanta residents filed lawsuits and business and community leaders pressured Mayor Bill Campbell to end Freaknik or severely crack down on the event. By 1996, the Atlanta police were out in large numbers, making it difficult for the revelers to party in the streets and engage in other illegal behavior. After city leaders took measures to curtail Freaknik's accessibility, its popularity faded. As a result, Freaknik moved East of Atlanta to Memorial Drive in DeKalb County, then to Daytona Beach, Florida. By 1999, celebration of the festival had died down due to heightened police security.\n\nIn April 2010, Atlanta officials said \"there are no permitted Freaknik-related events inside the city limits.\" Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed also said that \"he will be tough and even sue organizers of any Freaknik-related activities who violate city guidelines\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4539220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4539220", "title": "Gianmarco Bellini", "text": "Gianmarco Bellini\n\nGianmarco Bellini (born September 15, 1958) is an Italian Air Force officer who served with U.N. Coalition forces and was a prisoner of war during the First Gulf War.\n\nBellini enlisted in the Italian Air Force in 1977 and attended the Italian Accademia Aeronautica (Air Force Academy). He was then trained as a pilot at Laughlin Air Force Base in the United States. He has a degree in Political Science from the Federico II University in Naples, and a Master's degree in Strategic Studies from the Air War College at Air University, based at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, United States.\n\nOn the eve of the Operation Desert Storm the Italian government deployed eight Tornado Fighter-bombers on the Gulf Theatre of Operations. On January 16, 1991, coalition forces began concentrated air strikes on Iraqi military targets in Iraq and Kuwait.\n\nOn January 18, 1991 an Italian Tornado piloted by Major Gianmarco Bellini with Captain Maurizio Cocciolone as his navigator took off as part of a multi national 10 plane flight. Bellini and Cocciolone were the only members of the flight able to execute in-flight refueling, while the other 9 aircraft failed and had to abort the mission. The mission profile dictated that the operation could be performed even by a single plane, so Bellini and Cocciolone went on. Their plane was hit by Iraqi anti aircraft fire and they had to eject. They were captured by the Iraqi Republican Guard, even though their status was unknown at the time.\n\nWhile Cocciolone was shown on Iraqi television on January 20, 1991 in a propaganda video, no news of Bellini was given initially, and he was feared to be a casualty. The two were kept separate for the whole time of their captivity. On March 3, 1991 both officers were released. Bellini holds numerous military decorations including the silver Medal for Military Valor for his actions during the Operation Desert Storm.\n\nBellini and Cocciolone were the only Italian Prisoners of War of the entire war.\n\nBellini was later appointed commanding officer of the Ghedi air base.\n\n"}
{"id": "47880710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47880710", "title": "Glasgow City District Council election, 1984", "text": "Glasgow City District Council election, 1984\n\nElections for the Glasgow City District Council took place alongside elections to the councils of the other districts in Scotland. The result was victory for the Labour party, who won 59 of the 66 wards.\n"}
{"id": "6485453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6485453", "title": "Goderich Celtic Roots Festival", "text": "Goderich Celtic Roots Festival\n\nThe Celtic Roots Festival is a Celtic festival held annually in the town of Goderich, Ontario. The festival celebrates traditional Celtic music and craft by showcasing a wide variety of musicians and artisans. Musical acts have come from as far afield as Ireland, Scotland and Wales, but have also included popular North American folk artists such as Maura O'Connell, The Wailin' Jennys and Garnet Rogers. The festival was first held in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "40380109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40380109", "title": "Greentree Agreement", "text": "Greentree Agreement\n\nThe Greentree Agreement was the formal treaty which resolved the Cameroon-Nigeria border dispute over the oil and natural gas rich Bakassi peninsula. The dispute had roots as far back as 1913, 1981, 1994, and 1996 armed clashes between Nigeria and Cameroon took place in Bakassi.\nThe dispute was referred to the International Court of Justice and on 10 October 2002 the ICJ ruled in favor of Cameroon.\nOn 12 June 2006, Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo and Cameroonian President Paul Biya, signed the Greentree Agreement concerning the withdrawal of troops and transfer of authority in the Peninsula. The withdrawal of Nigerian troops was set for 60 days but allowed for a possible 30-day extension while Nigeria was allowed to keep its civil administration and police in Bakassi for another two years.\nA follow-up committee, composed of representatives from Cameroon, Nigeria, the UN, Germany, the USA, France and the UK, was created to monitor the implementation of the agreement.\n\nOn August 13, 2013 the United Nations Security Council stated that it welcomed the peaceful end two days earlier of the special transitional regime in the Bakassi Peninsula.\n"}
{"id": "27822571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27822571", "title": "Hermann A. Widemann", "text": "Hermann A. Widemann\n\nHermann Adam Widemann (December 24, 1822 – February 7, 1899) was a businessman from Germany who was a judge and member of the cabinet of the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nWidemann was born in Hanover, Germany on December 24, 1822.\nAs a teenager he went to work on a whaling ship. He came to live in the Hawaiian Islands in 1846, after stopping in 1843.\nHe came briefly to the California Gold Rush in 1849, but returned after his companion John von Pfister was murdered.\nHe married a native Hawaiian Kaumana \"Mary\" Kapoli in 1854 and lived in Līhue.\nHe became sheriff of the island of Kauai in 1854, was elected to the house of representatives in the legislature of the Hawaiian Kingdom in 1855, and in 1863 appointed its circuit judge.\nHe started one of the first sugarcane plantations in Hawaii known as Grove Farm.\nDuring the American Civil War he supported the Confederate States.\n\nAfter selling Grove Farm to its manager George Norton Wilcox in 1865, he moved to Honolulu to work in the capital. On July 10, 1869 he was appointed to the kingdom's supreme court, despite never having any formal law school training.\nOn February 18, 1874 he was appointed to the cabinet as minister of the interior until May 28, 1874, as well as on the Privy Council, the board of education, commissioner of crown lands, president of the bureau of immigration, and board of health.\nIn 1878 he started the Waianae Sugar Company in the Waianae district of Oahu island.\n\nOn February 25, 1891 he was appointed as Minister of Finance to Queen Liliuokalani, but had to resign two weeks later on March 10. He was temporarily replaced by Samuel Parker, and then John Mott-Smith. After Mott-Smith was sent to Washington, DC to attempt to negotiate a trade treaty, Parker served again briefly until Widemann resumed his duties as minister of finance.\nHe also filled in briefly as Attorney General from July 27, 1892 to August 29, 1892.\n\nAfter the 1893 overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii, Widemann was sent with Parker and John Adams Cummins to Washington, DC, in an attempt to get international support for its restoration\nHe then continued to London, and Berlin but was never successful.\n\nWidemann was interviewed by US Commissioner James H. Blount in preparing his Blount Report on May 20, 1893.\nHe was the first to experiment with the \"Guatemalan\" variety of coffea tree, which turned out to be well-adapted to higher elevations; it became the most popular variety through modern times.\n\nHe died February 7, 1899.\nAfter a funeral in the Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace, he was buried in Oahu Cemetery.\nHe was survived by two sons and seven daughters.\n\nHis daughter Wilhelmina Widemann organized the first women's suffrage club in the Territory of Hawaii in 1912. His son Carl Widemann married Helen Umiokalani Parker, daughter of Samuel Parker in July 1899.\nA street is named for him in Mākaha at .\n\n"}
{"id": "146879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146879", "title": "Hypothermia", "text": "Hypothermia\n\nHypothermia is reduced body temperature that happens when a body dissipates more heat than it absorbs. In humans, it is defined as a body core temperature below . Symptoms depend on the temperature. In mild hypothermia there is shivering and mental confusion. In moderate hypothermia shivering stops and confusion increases. In severe hypothermia, there may be paradoxical undressing, in which a person removes their clothing, as well as an increased risk of the heart stopping.\nHypothermia has two main types of causes. It classically occurs from exposure to extreme cold. It may also occur from any condition that decreases heat production or increases heat loss. Commonly this includes alcohol intoxication but may also include low blood sugar, anorexia, and advanced age. Body temperature is usually maintained near a constant level of through thermoregulation. Efforts to increase body temperature involve shivering, increased voluntary activity, and putting on warmer clothing. Hypothermia may be diagnosed based on either a person's symptoms in the presence of risk factors or by measuring a person's core temperature.\nThe treatment of mild hypothermia involves warm drinks, warm clothing, and physical activity. In those with moderate hypothermia, heating blankets and warmed intravenous fluids are recommended. People with moderate or severe hypothermia should be moved gently. In severe hypothermia, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) or cardiopulmonary bypass may be useful. In those without a pulse, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is indicated along with the above measures. Rewarming is typically continued until a person's temperature is greater than . If there is no improvement at this point or the blood potassium level is greater than 12 mmol/liter at any time, resuscitation may be discontinued.\nHypothermia is the cause of at least 1,500 deaths a year in the United States. It is more common in older people and males. One of the lowest documented body temperatures from which someone with accidental hypothermia has survived is in a near-drowning of a 7-year-old girl in Sweden. Survival after more than six hours of CPR has been described. For those for whom ECMO or bypass is used, survival is around 50%. Deaths due to hypothermia have played an important role in many wars. The term is from Greek ὑπο, \"ypo\", meaning \"under\", and θερμία, \"thermía\", meaning \"heat\". The opposite of hypothermia is hyperthermia, an increased body temperature due to failed thermoregulation.\n\nHypothermia is often defined as any body temperature below . With this method it is divided into degrees of severity based on the core temperature.\n\nAnother classification system, the Swiss staging system, divides hypothermia based on the presenting symptoms which is preferred when it is not possible to determine an accurate core temperature.\n\nOther cold-related injuries that can be present either alone or in combination with hypothermia include:\n\n\nThe normal human body temperature is often stated as . Hyperthermia and fever, are defined as a temperature of greater than .\n\nSigns and symptoms vary depending on the degree of hypothermia, and may be divided by the three stages of severity. Infants with hypothermia may feel cold when touched, with bright red skin and an unusual lack of energy.\n\nSymptoms of mild hypothermia may be vague, with sympathetic nervous system excitation (shivering, high blood pressure, fast heart rate, fast respiratory rate, and contraction of blood vessels). These are all physiological responses to preserve heat. Increased urine production due to cold, mental confusion, and hepatic dysfunction may also be present. Hyperglycemia may be present, as glucose consumption by cells and insulin secretion both decrease, and tissue sensitivity to insulin may be blunted. Sympathetic activation also releases glucose from the liver. In many cases, however, especially in alcoholic patients, hypoglycemia appears to be a more common presentation. Hypoglycemia is also found in many hypothermic patients, because hypothermia may be a result of hypoglycemia.\n\nLow body temperature results in shivering becoming more violent. Muscle mis-coordination becomes apparent. Movements are slow and labored, accompanied by a stumbling pace and mild confusion, although the person may appear alert. Surface blood vessels contract further as the body focuses its remaining resources on keeping the vital organs warm. The subject becomes pale. Lips, ears, fingers, and toes may become blue.\n\nAs the temperature decreases, further physiological systems falter and heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure all decrease. This results in an expected heart rate in the 30s at a temperature of .\n\nDifficulty speaking, sluggish thinking, and amnesia start to appear; inability to use hands and stumbling are also usually present. Cellular metabolic processes shut down. Below , the exposed skin becomes blue and puffy, muscle coordination very poor, and walking almost impossible, and the person exhibits incoherent or irrational behavior, including terminal burrowing (see below) or even stupor. Pulse and respiration rates decrease significantly, but fast heart rates (ventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation) can also occur. Atrial fibrillation is not typically a concern in and of itself. Major organs fail and clinical death occurs.\n\nTwenty to fifty percent of hypothermia deaths are associated with paradoxical undressing. This typically occurs during moderate and severe hypothermia, as the person becomes disoriented, confused, and combative. They may begin discarding their clothing, which, in turn, increases the rate of heat loss.\n\nRescuers who are trained in mountain survival techniques are taught to expect this; however, people who die from hypothermia in urban environments are sometimes incorrectly assumed to have been subjected to sexual assault.\n\nOne explanation for the effect is a cold-induced malfunction of the hypothalamus, the part of the brain that regulates body temperature. Another explanation is that the muscles contracting peripheral blood vessels become exhausted (known as a loss of vasomotor tone) and relax, leading to a sudden surge of blood (and heat) to the extremities, causing the person to feel overheated.\n\nAn apparent self-protective behaviour, known as \"terminal burrowing\", or \"hide-and-die syndrome\", occurs in the final stages of hypothermia. The afflicted will enter small, enclosed spaces, such as underneath beds or behind wardrobes. It is often associated with paradoxical undressing. Researchers in Germany claim this is \"obviously an autonomous process of the brain stem, which is triggered in the final state of hypothermia and produces a primitive and burrowing-like behavior of protection, as seen in hibernating animals\". This happens mostly in cases where temperature drops slowly.\n\nHypothermia usually occurs from exposure to low temperatures, and is frequently complicated by alcohol consumption. Any condition that decreases heat production, increases heat loss, or impairs thermoregulation, however, may contribute. Thus, hypothermia risk factors include: substance abuse (including alcohol abuse), homelessness, any condition that affects judgment (such as hypoglycemia), the extremes of age, poor clothing, chronic medical conditions (such as hypothyroidism and sepsis), and living in a cold environment. Hypothermia occurs frequently in major trauma, and is also observed in severe cases of anorexia nervosa. Hypothermia is also associated with worse outcomes in people with sepsis. While most people with sepsis develop fevers (elevated body temperature). some develop hypothermia.\n\nIn urban areas, hypothermia frequently occurs with chronic cold exposure, such as in cases of homelessness, as well as with immersion accidents involving drugs, alcohol or mental illness. While studies have shown that homeless people are at risk of premature death from hypothermia, the true incidence of hypothermia-related deaths in this population is difficult to determine. In more rural environments, the incidence of hypothermia is higher among people with significant comorbidities and less able to move independently. With rising interest in wilderness exploration, and outdoor and water sports, the incidence of hypothermia secondary to accidental exposure may become more frequent in the general population.\n\nAlcohol consumption increases the risk of hypothermia in two ways: vasodilation and temperature controlling systems in the brain. Vasodilation increases blood flow to the skin, resulting in heat being lost to the environment. This produces the effect of an individual \"feeling\" warm, when they are actually losing heat. Alcohol also affects the temperature-regulating system in the brain, decreasing the body's ability to shiver and use energy that would normally aid the body in generating heat. The overall effects of alcohol lead to a decrease in body temperature and a decreased ability to generate body heat in response to cold environments. Alcohol is a common risk factor for death due to hypothermia. Between 33% and 73% of hypothermia cases are complicated by alcohol.\n\nIn the UK, 28,354 cases of hypothermia were treated in 2012–13 – an increase of 25% from the previous year. Some cases of hypothermia death, as well as other preventable deaths, happen because poor people cannot easily afford to keep warm. Rising fuel bills have increased the numbers who have difficulty paying for adequate heating in the UK. Some pensioners and disabled people are at risk because they do not work and cannot easily leave their homes. Better heat insulation can help.\n\nHypothermia continues to be a major limitation to swimming or diving in cold water. The reduction in finger dexterity due to pain or numbness decreases general safety and work capacity, which consequently increases the risk of other injuries.\n\nOther factors predisposing to immersion hypothermia include dehydration, inadequate rewarming between repetitive dives, starting a dive while wearing cold, wet dry suit undergarments, sweating with work, inadequate thermal insulation (for example, thin dry suit undergarment), and poor physical conditioning.\n\nHeat is lost much more quickly in water than in air. Thus, water temperatures that would be quite reasonable as outdoor air temperatures can lead to hypothermia in survivors, although this is not usually the direct clinical cause of death for those who are not rescued. A water temperature of can lead to death in as little as one hour, and water temperatures near freezing can cause death in as little as 15 minutes. A notable example of this occurred during the sinking of the \"Titanic\", when most people who entered the water died in 15–30 minutes.\n\nThe actual cause of death in cold water is usually the bodily reactions to heat loss and to freezing water, rather than hypothermia (loss of core temperature) itself. For example, plunged into freezing seas, around 20% of victims die within two minutes from cold shock (uncontrolled rapid breathing, and gasping, causing water inhalation, massive increase in blood pressure and cardiac strain leading to cardiac arrest, and panic); another 50% die within 15–30 minutes from cold incapacitation (inability to use or control limbs and hands for swimming or gripping, as the body \"protectively\" shuts down the peripheral muscles of the limbs to protect its core). Exhaustion and unconsciousness cause drowning, claiming the rest within a similar time.\n\nHeat is primarily generated in muscle tissue, including the heart, and in the liver, while it is lost through the skin (90%) and lungs (10%). Heat production may be increased two- to four-fold through muscle contractions (i.e. exercise and shivering). The rate of heat loss is determined, as with any object, by convection, conduction, and radiation. The rates of these can be affected by body mass index, body surface area to volume ratios, clothing and other environmental conditions.\n\nMany changes to physiology occur as body temperatures decrease. These occur in the cardiovascular system leading to the Osborn J wave and other dysrhythmias, decreased central nervous system electrical activity, cold diuresis, and non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema.\n\nResearch has shown that glomerular filtration rates (GFR) decrease as a result of hypothermia. In essence, hypothermia increases preglomerular vasoconstriction, thus decreasing both renal blood flow (RBF) and GFR.\n\nAccurate determination of core temperature often requires a special low temperature thermometer, as most clinical thermometers do not measure accurately below . A low temperature thermometer can be placed in the rectum, esophagus or bladder. Esophageal measurements are the most accurate and are recommended once a person is intubated. Other methods of measurement such as in the mouth, under the arm, or using an infrared ear thermometer are often not accurate.\n\nAs a hypothermic person's heart rate may be very slow, prolonged feeling for a pulse could be required before detecting. In 2005, the American Heart Association recommended at least 30–45 seconds to verify the absence of a pulse before initiating CPR. Others recommend a 60-second check.\n\nThe classical ECG finding of hypothermia is the Osborn J wave. Also, ventricular fibrillation frequently occurs below and asystole below . The Osborn J may look very similar to those of an acute ST elevation myocardial infarction. Thrombolysis as a reaction to the presence of Osborn J waves is not indicated, as it would only worsen the underlying coagulopathy caused by hypothermia.\n\nAppropriate clothing helps to prevent hypothermia. Synthetic and wool fabrics are superior to cotton as they provide better insulation when wet and dry. Some synthetic fabrics, such as polypropylene and polyester, are used in clothing designed to wick perspiration away from the body, such as liner socks and moisture-wicking undergarments. Clothing should be loose fitting, as tight clothing reduces the circulation of warm blood. In planning outdoor activity, prepare appropriately for possible cold weather. Those who drink alcohol before or during outdoor activity should ensure at least one sober person is present responsible for safety.\n\nCovering the head is effective, but no more effective than covering any other part of the body. While common folklore says that people lose most of their heat through their heads, heat loss from the head is no more significant than that from other uncovered parts of the body. However, heat loss from the head is significant in infants, whose head is larger relative to the rest of the body than in adults. Several studies have shown that for uncovered infants, lined hats significantly reduce heat loss and thermal stress. Children have a larger surface area per unit mass, and other things being equal should have one more layer of clothing than adults in similar conditions, and the time they spend in cold environments should be limited. However children are often more active than adults, and may generate more heat. In both adults and children, overexertion causes sweating and thus increases heat loss.\n\nBuilding a shelter can aid survival where there is danger of death from exposure. Shelters can be of many different types, metal can conduct heat away from the occupants and is sometimes best avoided. The shelter should not be too big so body warmth stays near the occupants. Good ventilation is essential especially if a fire will be lit in the shelter. Fires should be put out before the occupants sleep to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning. People caught in very cold, snowy conditions can build an igloo or snow cave to shelter.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard promotes using life vests to protect against hypothermia through the 50/50/50 rule: If someone is in water for 50 minutes, he/she has a 50 percent better chance of survival if wearing a life jacket. A heat escape lessening position can be used to increase survival in cold water.\n\nBabies should sleep at 16-20 °C (61-68 °F) and housebound people should be checked regularly to make sure the temperature of the home is at least 18 °C (64 °F).\n\nAggressiveness of treatment is matched to the degree of hypothermia. Treatment ranges from noninvasive, passive external warming to active external rewarming, to active core rewarming. In severe cases resuscitation begins with simultaneous removal from the cold environment and management of the airway, breathing, and circulation. Rapid rewarming is then commenced. Moving the person as little and as gently as possible is recommended as aggressive handling may increase risks of a dysrhythmia.\n\nHypoglycemia is a frequent complication and needs to be tested for and treated. Intravenous thiamine and glucose is often recommended, as many causes of hypothermia are complicated by Wernicke's encephalopathy.\n\nThe UK National Health Service advises the lay public against putting a person in a hot bath, massaging their arms and legs, using a heating pad, or giving them alcohol. These measures can cause blood to be directed to the skin, causing a fall in blood pressure to vital organs, potentially resulting in death.\n\nRewarming can be done with a number of methods including passive external rewarming, active external rewarming, and active internal rewarming. Passive external rewarming involves the use of a person's own ability to generate heat by providing properly insulated dry clothing and moving to a warm environment. It is recommended for those with mild hypothermia.\n\nActive external rewarming involves applying warming devices externally, such as a heating blanket. These may function by warmed forced air (Bair Hugger is a commonly used device), chemical reactions, or electricity. In wilderness environments, hypothermia may be helped by placing hot water bottles in both armpits and in the groin. These methods are recommended for moderate hypothermia. Active core rewarming involves the use of intravenous warmed fluids, irrigation of body cavities with warmed fluids (the chest or abdomen), use of warm humidified inhaled air, or use of extracorporeal rewarming such as via a heart lung machine or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Extracorporeal rewarming is the fastest method for those with severe hypothermia. Survival rates with normal mental functioning have been reported at around 50%. Chest irrigation is recommended if bypass or ECMO is not possible.\n\nRewarming shock (or rewarming collapse) is a sudden drop in blood pressure in combination with a low cardiac output which may occur during active treatment of a severely hypothermic person. There was a theoretical concern that external rewarming rather than internal rewarming may increase the risk. These concerns were partly believed to be due to afterdrop, a situation detected during laboratory experiments where there is a continued decrease in core temperature after rewarming has been started. Recent studies have not supported these concerns, and problems are not found with active external rewarming.\n\nWarm sweetened liquids can be given provided the person is alert and can swallow. Many recommend that alcohol and drinks with lots of caffeine be avoided. As most people are moderately dehydrated due to cold-induced diuresis, warmed intravenous fluids to a temperature of are often recommended.\n\nIn those without signs of life cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should be continued during active rewarming. For ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, a single defibrillation should be attempted. People with severe hypothermia however may not respond to pacing or defibrillation. It is not known if further defibrillation should be withheld until the core temperature reaches . In Europe epinephrine is not recommended until the temperature reaches while the American Heart Association recommended up to three doses of epinephrine before is reached. Once a temperature of is reached, normal ACLS protocols should be followed.\n\nIt is usually recommended not to declare a person dead until their body is warmed to a near normal body temperature of greater than , since extreme hypothermia can suppress heart and brain function. Exceptions include if there is an obvious fatal injuries or the chest is frozen so that it cannot be compressed. If a person was buried in an avalanche for more than 35 minutes and is found with a mouth packed full of snow without a pulse, stopping early may also be reasonable. This is also the case if a person's blood potassium is greater than 12 mmol/l.\n\nThose who are stiff with pupils that do not move may survive if treated aggressively. Survival with good function also occasionally occurs even after the need for hours of CPR. Children who have near-drowning accidents in water near can occasionally be revived, even over an hour after losing consciousness. The cold water lowers the metabolism, allowing the brain to withstand a much longer period of hypoxia. While survival is possible, mortality from severe or profound hypothermia remains high despite optimal treatment. Studies estimate mortality at between 38% and 75%.\n\nIn those who have hypothermia due to another underlying health problem, when death occurs it is frequently from that underlying health problem.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2004 in the United States, an average of 1560 cold-related emergency department visits occurred per year and in the years 1999 to 2004, an average of 647 people died per year due to hypothermia. Of deaths reported between 1999 and 2002 in the US, 49% of those affected were 65 years or older and two-thirds were male. Most deaths were not work related (63%) and 23% of affected people were at home. Hypothermia was most common during the autumn and winter months of October through March. In the United Kingdom, an estimated 300 deaths per year are due to hypothermia, whereas the annual incidence of hypothermia-related deaths in Canada is 8000.\n\nHypothermia has played a major role in the success or failure of many military campaigns, from Hannibal's loss of nearly half his men in the Second Punic War (218 B.C.) to the near destruction of Napoleon's armies in Russia in 1812. Men wandered around confused by hypothermia, some lost consciousness and died, others shivered, later developed torpor, and tended to sleep. Others too weak to walk fell on their knees; some stayed that way some time resisting death. The pulse of some was weak and hard to detect; others groaned; yet others had eyes open and wild with quiet delirium. Loss of life to hypothermia in Russian regions continued through the first and second world wars, especially in the Battle of Stalingrad.\n\nCivilian examples of deaths caused by hypothermia occurred during the sinkings of the RMS \"Titanic\" and RMS \"Lusitania\", and more recently of the MS \"Estonia\".\n\nAntarctic explorers developed hypothermia; Ernest Shackleton and his team measured body temperatures \"below 94.2°, which spells death at home\", though this probably referred to oral temperatures rather than core temperature and corresponded to mild hypothermia. One of Scott's team, Atkinson, became confused through hypothermia.\n\nNazi human experimentation during World War II amounting to medical torture included hypothermia experiments, which killed many victims. There were 360 to 400 experiments and 280 to 300 subjects, indicating some had more than one experiment performed on them. Various methods of rewarming were attempted, \"One assistant later testified that some victims were thrown into boiling water for rewarming\".\n\nMany animals other than humans often induce hypothermia during hibernation or torpor.\n\nWater bears (Tardigrade), microscopic multicellular organisms, can survive freezing at low temperatures by replacing most of their internal water with the sugar trehalose, preventing the crystallization that otherwise damages cell membranes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20122457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122457", "title": "James W. Pumphrey", "text": "James W. Pumphrey\n\nJames W. Pumphrey (September 12, 1832 – March 16, 1906) was the owner of a livery stable in Washington, D.C., and played a minor role in the events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln and its aftermath. John Wilkes Booth hired a horse from Pumphrey that he used to escape with after he assassinated the President.\n\nJames Pumphrey was born in Washington, D.C., to Levi Pumphrey and Sarah Pumphrey née Miller, and was one of six children. Upon the death of his father, being the eldest son, James inherited a livery stable at the corner of C Street and 6th Street.\n\nJames Pumphrey had two \"common law\" marriages and fathered seven children. He and his first wife, Margaret, had two children: Ida Elizabeth and James W., Jr. With his second wife, Mary, he fathered five children: Sarah, Mary, Josephine, Percival, and Edward.\n\nPumphrey was an acquaintance of conspirator John Surratt and it was Surratt who introduced Booth to him prior to the assassination. Pumphrey's stable was located near the National Hotel, which was Booth's Washington residence at the time. Booth had been hiring one particular horse, which he preferred, from Pumphrey.\n\nOn April 14, 1865, after learning that Lincoln would attend that evening's performance of the play \"Our American Cousin\", Booth went directly from Ford's Theatre to Pumphrey's livery stable to make arrangements for procuring a horse. Pumphrey informed Booth that the horse he usually hired was unavailable. Therefore, Booth hired a different one, a swift little bay mare with a white star on her forehead and a black tail and mane.\nBooth told Pumphrey that he would be back to get it at around four o'clock that afternoon.\n\nAt the hour agreed upon, Booth arrived at the stable. Pumphrey warned Booth that the horse was high spirited and she would break her halter if left unattended.\n\nBooth mentioned to Pumphrey that he was going to Grover's Theatre, the former name of the National Theatre, as he had to write an important letter. He added that he planned afterwards to stop for a drink and then take a leisurely ride. Booth did write a letter, but not at Grover's Theatre. He wrote the letter at the National Hotel; it was written to the editor of a Washington D.C. newspaper called the \"National Intelligencer\". In the letter, he explained that his plans had changed from kidnapping Lincoln to assassinating him. In addition to signing his own name, he also added those of his co-conspirators: Lewis Powell, George Atzerodt, and David Herold. Later, Booth did get a drink at Peter Taltavull's Star Saloon located next to Ford's Theatre, but he definitely did not go on a pleasure ride. Instead, Booth approached Edmund Spangler, an acquaintance and stage hand at Ford's Theatre, with the request to hold the reins of the skittish mare that he hired, while he briefly attended to some business within the theater. This business was murdering Lincoln.\n\nAfter the assassination, Booth and Herold made good an escape to Virginia. Prior to crossing the Potomac River and while hiding out in some woods, Herold killed Pumphrey's horse along with his own because the horses were no longer needed.\n\nIn the turmoil that followed Lincoln's assassination, scores of suspected accomplices were arrested and thrown into prison by the United States Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton. Stanton vigorously pursued the apprehension and prosecution of the conspirators involved in Lincoln's assassination. All the people who were discovered to have had anything to do with the assassination or anyone with the slightest contact with Booth or Herold on their flight were put behind bars. Pumphrey, having supplied the get away horse, was jailed. Ultimately, the suspects were narrowed down to a group of eight prisoners—seven men and one woman—and, along with many others, Pumphrey was released.\n\nOn May 15, 1865, Pumphrey testified for the Prosecution and described the horse he provided to Booth and the details of how that transaction came about.\n\nPumphrey's last part in the events surrounding the assassination was to wait mounted on his horse for hours outside the Old Arsenal Penitentiary. He waited in the hope of having the privilege of carrying President Andrew Johnson's reprieve to Mary Surratt. While Pumphrey regarded Mrs. Surratt as wholly innocent and exhibited the deepest sympathy for her, no reprieve was to come. On July 7, 1865, she was hanged with three of the other conspirators.\n\nPumphrey continued to operate the livery stable until some time after 1900. The demise of his stable, like many others of the day, was caused by the advent of the automobile. On 16 March 1906, Pumphrey died in Washington, DC. He is buried in Congressional Cemetery.\n\nThe following is Pumphrey's obituary in \"The Evening Star\", Washington, DC. It is from page 9 of the issue dated 16 March 1906:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360789", "title": "List of Black Fridays", "text": "List of Black Fridays\n\nBlack Friday is a term used to refer to certain events which occur on a Friday. It has been used in the following cases:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55868631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55868631", "title": "List of antibiotic-resistant bacteria", "text": "List of antibiotic-resistant bacteria\n\nA list of antibiotic resistant bacteria is provided below. These bacteria have shown antibiotic resistance (or antimicrobial resistance).\n\nNDM-1 is an enzyme that makes bacteria resistant to a broad range of beta-lactam antibiotics.\n\nNDM-1 (New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase-1) originated in India. In Indian hospitals hospital-acquired infections are common and with the new super-bugs on rise in India, this can make them dangerous. Mapping of sewage and water supply samples that were NDM-1-positive indicates widespread infection in New Delhi already back in 2011.\n\nNDM-1 was first detected in a \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\" isolate from a Swedish patient of Indian origin in 2008. It was later detected in bacteria in India, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and Japan.\n\n\"Clostridium difficile\" is a nosocomial pathogen that causes diarrheal disease worldwide. Diarrhea caused by \"C. difficile\" can be life-threatening. Infections are most frequent in people who have had recent medical and/or antibiotic treatment. \"C. difficile\" infections commonly occur during hospitalization.\n\nAccording to a 2015 CDC report, \"C. difficile\" caused almost 500,000 infections in the United States over a year period. Associated with these infections were an estimated 15,000 deaths. The CDC estimates that \"C. difficile\" infection costs could amount to $3.8 billion over a 5-year span.\n\n\"C. difficile\" colitis is most strongly associated with fluoroquinolones, cephalosporins, carbapenems, and clindamycin.\n\nSome research suggests the overuse of antibiotics in the raising of livestock is contributing to outbreaks of bacterial infections such as \"C. difficile\".[16]\n\nAntibiotics, especially those with a broad activity spectrum (such as clindamycin) disrupt normal intestinal flora. This can lead to an overgrowth of \"C. difficile\", which flourishes under these conditions. Pseudomembranous colitis can follow, creating generalized inflammation of the colon and the development of \"pseudomembrane\", a viscous collection of inflammatory cells, fibrin, and necrotic cells.[4] Clindamycin-resistant \"C. difficile\" was reported as the causative agent of large outbreaks of diarrheal disease in hospitals in New York, Arizona, Florida and Massachusetts between 1989 and 1992. Geographically dispersed outbreaks of \"C. difficile\" strains resistant to fluoroquinolone antibiotics, such as ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin, were also reported in North America in 2005.\n\nMultidrug-resistant \"Enterococcus faecalis\" and \"Enterococcus faecium\" are associated with nosocomial infections. These strains include: penicillin-resistant \"Enterococcus\", vancomycin-resistant \"Enterococcus\", and linezolid-resistant \"Enterococcus\".\n\nTuberculosis (TB) resistant to antibiotics is called MDR TB (multidrug-resistant TB). Globally, MDR TB causes 150,000 deaths annually. The rise of the HIV/AIDS epidemic has contributed to this.\n\nMycobacterium tuberculosis is an obligate pathogen that has evolved to ensure its persistence in human populations. This is evident in the fact that Mycobacterium tuberculosis must cause a pulmonary disease in order to be successfully transmitted from one person to another. Tuberculosis better known as TB has one of the highest mortality rates among pathogens in the world. Mortality rates have not seen a significant decrease due to its growing resistance to certain antibiotics. Although there is years worth of research and many work hours that have been devoted to the creation of a vaccine, one still does not exist. TB has a very high level of virulence which is mainly due in part to the fact it is extremely transmissible. TB was considered one of the most prevalent diseases, and did not have a cure until the discovery of streptomycin by Selman Waksman in 1943. However, the bacteria soon developed resistance. Since then, drugs such as isoniazid and rifampin have been used. \"M. tuberculosis\" develops resistance to drugs by spontaneous mutations in its genomes. These types of mutations can lead to genotype and phenotype changes that can contribute to reproductive success therefore they can be passed on and evolve into resistant bacteria. Resistance to one drug is common, and this is why treatment is usually done with more than one drug. Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB) is TB that is also resistant to the second line of drugs.\n\nResistance of \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" to isoniazid, rifampin, and other common treatments has become an increasingly relevant clinical challenge. Evidence is lacking for whether these bacteria have plasmids. \"M. tuberculosis\" lack the opportunity to interact with other bacteria in order to share plasmids.\n\n\"Mycoplasma genitalium\" is a small pathogenic bacterium that lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the urinary and genital tracts in humans. It is still controversial whether or not this bacterium is to be recognized as a sexually transmitted pathogen. Infection with \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" sometimes produces clinical symptoms, or a combination of symptoms, but sometimes can be asymptomatic. It causes inflammation in the urethra (urethritis) both in men and women, which is associated with mucopurulent discharge in the urinary tract, and burning while urinating.\n\nTreatment of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" infections is becoming increasingly difficult due to rapidly developing multi-drug resistance, and diagnosis and treatment is further hampered by the fact that \"M. genitalium\" infections are not routinely detected. Azithromycin is the most common first-line treatment, but the commonly-used 1 gram single-dose azithromycin treatment can lead to the bacteria commonly developing resistance to azithromycin. An alternative five-day treatment with azithromycin showed no development of antimicrobial resistance. Efficacy of azithromycin against \"M. genitalium\" has decreased substantially, which is thought to occur through SNPs in the 23S rRNA gene. The same SNPs are thought to be responsible for resistance against josamycin which is prescribed in some countries. Moxifloxacin can be used as a second-line treatment in case azithromycin is not able to eradicate the infection. However, resistance against moxifloxacin has been observed since 2007, thought to be due to \"parC\" SNPs. Tetracyclines, including doxycycline, have a low clinical eradication rate for \"M. genitalium\" infections. A few cases have been described where doxycycline, azithromycin and moxifloxacin had all failed, but pristinamycin was still able to eradicate the infection.\n\n\"Staphylococcus aureus\" is one of the major resistant pathogens. Found on the mucous membranes and the human skin of around a third of the population, it is extremely adaptable to antibiotic pressure. It was one of the earlier bacteria in which penicillin resistance was found—in 1947, just four years after the drug started being mass-produced. Methicillin was then the antibiotic of choice, but has since been replaced by oxacillin because of significant kidney toxicity. Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) was first detected in Britain in 1961, and is now \"quite common\" in hospitals. MRSA was responsible for 37% of fatal cases of sepsis in the UK in 1999, up from 4% in 1991. Half of all \"S. aureus\" infections in the US are resistant to penicillin, methicillin, tetracycline and erythromycin.\n\n\"Streptococcus pyogenes\" (Group A \"Streptococcus\": GAS) infections can usually be treated with many different antibiotics. Strains of \"S. pyogenes\" resistant to macrolide antibiotics have emerged; however, all strains remain uniformly susceptible to penicillin.\n\nResistance of \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\" to penicillin and other beta-lactams is increasing worldwide. The major mechanism of resistance involves the introduction of mutations in genes encoding penicillin-binding proteins. Selective pressure is thought to play an important role, and use of beta-lactam antibiotics has been implicated as a risk factor for infection and colonization. \"S. pneumoniae\" is responsible for pneumonia, bacteremia, otitis media, meningitis, sinusitis, peritonitis and arthritis.\n\n\"Campylobacter\" causes diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and abdominal cramps. Serious complications such as temporary paralysis can also occur. Physicians rely on ciprofloxacin and azithromycin for treating patients with severe disease although \"Campylobacter\" is showing resistance to these antibiotics.\n\n\"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" is a sexually transmitted pathogen that causes gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted disease that can result in discharge and inflammation at the urethra, cervix, pharynx, or rectum. It can cause pelvic pain, pain on urination, penile and vaginal discharge, as well as systemic symptoms. It can also cause severe reproductive complications.\n\nAs of 2013 hard-to-treat or untreatable infections of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), also known as carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE), were increasing among patients in medical facilities. CRE are resistant to nearly all available antibiotics. Almost half of hospital patients who get bloodstream CRE infections die from the infection.\n\nKlebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing bacteria are a group of emerging highly drug-resistant Gram-negative bacilli causing infections associated with significant morbidity and mortality whose incidence is rapidly increasing in a variety of clinical settings around the world. \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\" includes numerous mechanisms for antibiotic resistance, many of which are located on highly mobile genetic elements. Carbapenem antibiotics (heretofore often the treatment of last resort for resistant infections) are generally not effective against KPC-producing organisms.\n\nInfection with \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Salmonella\" can result from the consumption of contaminated food and polluted water. Both of these bacteria are well known for causing nosocomial (hospital-linked) infections, and often, these strains found in hospitals are antibiotic resistant because of adaptations to wide spread antibiotic use. When both bacteria are spread, serious health conditions arise. Many people are hospitalized each year after becoming infected, with some dying as a result. Since 1993, some strains of \"E. coli\" have become resistant to multiple types of fluoroquinolone antibiotics.\n\nAlthough mutation alone plays a huge role in the development of antibiotic resistance, a 2008 study found that high survival rates after exposure to antibiotics could not be accounted for by mutation alone. This study focused on the development of resistance in \"E. coli\" to three antibiotic drugs: ampicillin, tetracycline, and nalidixic acid. The researchers found that some antibiotic resistance in \"E. coli\" developed because of epigenetic inheritance rather than by direct inheritance of a mutated gene. This was further supported by data showing that reversion to antibiotic sensitivity was relatively common as well. This could only be explained by epigenetics. Epigenetics is a type of inheritance in which gene expression is altered rather than the genetic code itself. There are many modes by which this alteration of gene expression can occur, including methylation of DNA and histone modification; however, the important point is that both inheritance of random mutations and epigenetic markers can result in the expression of antibiotic resistance genes.\n\nResistance to polymyxins first appear in 2011. An easier way for this resistance to spread, a plasmid known as MCR-1 was discovered in 2015.\n\n\"Acinetobacter\" is a gram-negative bacteria that causes pneumonia or bloodstream infections in critically ill patients. Multidrug-resistant \"Acinetobacter\" have become very resistant to antibiotics.\n\nOn November 5, 2004, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported an increasing number of \"Acinetobacter baumannii\" bloodstream infections in patients at military medical facilities in which service members injured in the Iraq/Kuwait region during Operation Iraqi Freedom and in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom were treated. Most of these showed multidrug resistance (MRAB), with a few isolates resistant to all drugs tested.\n\n\"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" is a highly prevalent opportunistic pathogen. One of the most worrisome characteristics of \"P. aeruginosa\" is its low antibiotic susceptibility, which is attributable to a concerted action of multidrug efflux pumps with chromosomally encoded antibiotic resistance genes (e.g., \"mexAB-oprM\", \"mexXY\") and the low permeability of the bacterial cellular envelopes. \"P. aeruginosa\" has the ability to produce 4-hydroxy-2-alkylquinolines (HAQs) and it has been found that HAQs have prooxidant effects, and overexpressing modestly increased susceptibility to antibiotics. The study experimented with the \"P. aeruginosa\" biofilms and found that a disruption of relA and spoT genes produced an inactivation of the Stringent response (SR) in cells with nutrient limitation, which provides cells be more susceptible to antibiotics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41418278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41418278", "title": "List of friendly fire incidents", "text": "List of friendly fire incidents\n\nThere have been many thousands of friendly fire incidents in recorded military history, accounting for an estimated 2% to 20% of all casualties in battle. The examples listed below illustrate their range and diversity, but this does not reflect increasing frequency. The \"rate\" of friendly fire, once allowance has been made for the numbers of troops committed to battle, has remained remarkably stable over the past 200 years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIt has been estimated that there may have been as many as 8,000 friendly fire incidents in the Vietnam War; one was the inspiration for the book and film \"Friendly Fire\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58637916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637916", "title": "Marlboro M hoax", "text": "Marlboro M hoax\n\nThe Marlboro M Hoax was a false rumor originating from satire news website \"Abril Uno\" on April 1, 2016. It was an April Fools joke.\n\nThe article claims that Philip Morris, owner of the Marlboro tobacco company, is introducing a new line of marijuana cigarettes called Marlboro M in Colorado and the state of Washington. While fake, the article does have some factual basis, as tobacco companies have shown interest in marijuana since the 1970's. Even though the article was quite obviously satire, it's intriguing title was able to make it around the internet before it could be disproved. Some users, upon discovering that there were no 'Marlboro M' cigarettes at their local dispensary, claimed that they would be in stock by the end of 2017.\n\nWhile the article was proven fake, its claims were able gain widespread belief because of past and current events in cannabis culture, which themselves were true. For example, it is true that tobacco companies, including Phillip Morris, were interested in marijuana as a competing product and potentially an addition to their company, long before rapid legalization came about. Legalization is also a contributing factor to the blind acceptance these claims received, as societal views on marijuana use have largely shifted in recent years. Some tobacco companies have actually began investing in medical marijuana research, as well as joining with marijuana seed investment firms, though they haven't gone as far is to introduce cannabis cigarettes into the market. Currently, it would be illegal for such a large company, such as Philip Morris, to introduce cannabis cigarettes, as its use is still illegal on the federal level (in the US). \n"}
{"id": "58019319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58019319", "title": "May 2018 inter-Korean summit", "text": "May 2018 inter-Korean summit\n\nThe May 2018 inter-Korean summit was the second inter-Korean summit in 2018.\nOn 26 May, Kim and Moon met again in the Joint Security Area, this time on the North Korean side in the Inter-Korean Peace House in the Unification Pavilion. The meeting took two hours, and unlike other summits it had not been publicly announced beforehand. Photos released by South Korea's presidential office showed Moon arriving at the northern side of the Panmunjom truce village and shaking hands with Kim's sister, Kim Yo-jong, before sitting down with Kim for their summit. Moon was accompanied by his spy chief, Suh Hoon, while Kim was joined by Kim Yong-chol, a former military intelligence chief who is now a vice chairman of the North Korean ruling party's central committee tasked with inter-Korean relations. The meeting was largely centered around North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's upcoming summit with US President Donald Trump. Kim and Moon also embraced before Moon returned to South Korea. On 27 May, Moon stated in a public address that he and Kim agreed to meet again at \"anytime and anyplace\" without any formality and that the North Korean leader once again pledged to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula in accordance with the Panmunjom Declaration.\n\nTwo leaders of North and South Koreas exchanged their opinions about the issues and solutions for the Trump-Kim summit as Trump abruptly cancelled the upcoming US-North Korea summit on 12 June. The principal agenda of the meeting was trying to get U.S. summit back on track and keep progressing the denuclearization talks,\n\nThe second 2018 summit was established by Kim Jong-un's suggestion within a whirlwind 24 hour notice, but Moon Jae-in accepted Kim's invitation as per the critical nuclear agenda between North and South Korea. Moon Jae-in had expressed his belief, and he discussed with Kim Jong Un about Kim's willingness to join nuclear interventions with Trump. Moon and Kim agreed to also convene inter-Korean high-level talks on 1 June, to be followed by talks between military authorities to ease military tensions and Red Cross talks for the reunion of separated families. Both leaders also agreed to accelerate the implementation of the Panmunjom Declaration and meet again at \"anytime and anyplace\" without formality.\n\nDuring 1 June meeting, officials from both countries agreed to move forward with the military and Red Cross talks. Both Koreas also agreed to reopen a former liaison office located within a factory park in Kaesong which had been jointly operated by the countries until the South shut it down in February 2016 after a North Korean nuclear test. The first talks involving the Red Cross and military were then held at North Korea's Mount Kumgang resort on 22 June 2018 and during the talks, it was agreed that family reunions which had been cancelled in 2015 would resume between 20 and 26 August 2018. \n\nThe first family unions since the end of the Korean War then took place on August 20 when about 330 South Koreans from 89 families, many in wheelchairs, embraced 185 separated relatives from the North at the Mount Kumgang resort, also known as Diamond Mountain. South Korean members of these families returned home on August 22. Between August 24 and August 26, a second round of family reunions occurred when a total of 326 South Koreans from 81 families traveled to Mount Kumgang to meet nearly 100 of their long-separated relatives from the North. On September 14, the Inter-Korean Liaison Office opened at the Kaesong park location.\n\nOn 13 August, it was announced that a third 2018 inter-Korean summit would be held in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang in September. The meeting is designed to capitalize on what was accomplished at the previous two summits. Ri Son Gwon, the head of the North Korean delegation, told reporters that a specific date for the summit was already set, but that they wanted to \"keep reporters wondering.\" It was announced on 31 August that South Korean President Moon Jae-In will send a special delegation to North Korea on 5 September to hold more nuclear talks and set up the summit. The delegation arrived in North Korea as scheduled. It was determined that the summit would be held for three days and would take place between September 18 and September 20. The summit was officially held on the scheduled dates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1430865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430865", "title": "Mike Warnke", "text": "Mike Warnke\n\nMichael Alfred \"Mike\" Warnke (born November 19, 1946) is an American Christian evangelist and comedian. With the success of his books and recordings, Warnke became one of evangelical Christianity's best-known experts on the subject of Satanism during the 1980s, before his claims of having been a Satanist high priest were discredited in 1991 by the Christian magazine, \"Cornerstone\".\n\nMike Warnke was born in 1946 to parents Alfred \"Al\" Warnke and Louise Warnke. When he was five years old, the Warnke family moved to Manchester, Tennessee where his father opened a truck stop. In 1955, Warnke's mother was killed in a car accident. In 1958 his father died, leaving Warnke an orphan. After the death of his father, Warnke was taken to live with two of his aunts in Sparta, Tennessee, and from there to his father's half-sister and her husband in San Bernardino, California. In June 1965, Warnke graduated from Rim of the World High School in Lake Arrowhead. That September, he enrolled at San Bernardino Valley College but withdrew after one semester, whereupon by his account, Warnke began his tenure as a Satanist. On June 2, 1966, Warnke enlisted in the United States Navy. After graduating from boot-camp on August 22, 1966, Warnke's assigned military occupational specialty was as a hospital corpsman.\n\nAccording to the account of his life in \"The Satan Seller\", Warnke converted to Christianity during navy boot camp. However, high-school acquaintance Charlotte Tweeten has stated she recalls him proclaiming faith in Christ in the year prior to his navy enlistment in 1966. Warnke also wrote that he began dating fellow Rim of the World High School alumna, Sue Studer, during this time period. This has been disproven, however, and Warnke was actually engaged to Lois Eckenrod at this time. In 1967, Warnke completed naval corpsman training, returned to San Diego, and married Studer. Together, they had two children.\n\nIn 1969, Warnke was deployed to Vietnam for a six-month tour of duty. Having been wounded in battle during those six months, Warnke was awarded the Purple Heart. Warnke's own written accounts differ on the number of times he sustained injuries during his time in Vietnam. In \"The Satan Seller\", Warnke says he was wounded twice, while in his second book, \"Hitchhiking on Hope Street\", he states he was wounded five times. Despite these wounds received during his tour of duty as a hospital corpsman, second class, Warnke's various accounts have him spending much time detained, allegedly killing a man in battle, and surviving being shot several times, including once by an arrow. Warnke says it was the latter wound for which he was awarded the Purple Heart. Warnke returned to the United States in 1970.\n\nWhile still serving in the navy, Warnke teamed up with San Diego evangelist Morris Cerullo and was touted for his \"Satanist experience\". Warnke and Cerullo toured the country participating in charismatic revival meetings. Cerullo wanted to write a book about youth occultism, and assigned the writing task to David Balsiger with help from Warnke. In early 1972, Warnke requested and received an early discharge from the navy as a conscientious objector so that he could work full-time in the ministry. Warnke then left Cerullo's ministry to start his own, forbidding Cerullo to use any of his material. It was at this time that Warnke and Balsiger went on to write the book that would make Warnke famous.\n\nIn 1972, Warnke's book \"The Satan Seller\" was released. Written by Warnke, with help from Balsiger and Les Jones, the book tells of Warnke being orphaned as a child and his introduction into Satanism. Further detailed is Warnke's participation in sexual orgies, alcoholism, and drug dealing; his rise in the ranks of Satanism to the level of \"high priest\"; presiding over Satanic rituals including magical spells, summoning demons, ritual sex including a ritual kidnap and rape; the attempt on his life — a heroin overdose — that left him angry and disillusioned; his heroism in Vietnam; and how he found Jesus and came home as an evangelist. The story ends with Warnke living happily in California with wife Sue Studer. In fewer than three months after the release, \"The Satan Seller\" had become a religious best-seller.\n\nThe book launched Warnke into stardom within evangelical Christian communities. He became a popular speaker at Christian meeting places such as Melodyland in Anaheim, California. In 1974, Warnke moved his family to attend Trinity Bible College in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as a nine-month preparation for ministry. It was here, while among other charismatic Christians and recent converts preparing for a life of ministry, that Warnke met Carolyn Alberty and the two began a sexual affair. Warnke also met Elijah Coady, an independent, schismatic bishop of the Syro-Chaldean Church, also known as the Assyrian Church of the East or the Nestorian church. Coady ordained Warnke as a deacon. Upon graduation, Warnke was again ordained, and Warnke moved with his family to Denver, Colorado.\n\nIn November 1975 at an Indiana coffeehouse, Warnke's talk about his conversion from Satanism to Christianity was incidentally recorded. This recording became Warnke's first album, \"Alive\", which was soon widely played on Christian radio. Later that same year, despite interventions from pastors and other acclaimed ministers, Warnke left his wife for Alberty and filed for divorce. The divorce was finalized in December 1975 and four months later, Warnke married Alberty.\n\nWarnke's popularity earned him the cover of the September 1976 issue of the Christian magazine, \"Harmony\". In 1977, Warnke released his second album, \"Jester In The King's Court\". In 1978, Warnke recounted his Vietnam experiences on his third album, \"Hey, Doc!\". His albums became \"the most popular Christian comedy albums ever produced\". During a tour to Hazard, Kentucky, Warnke met Rose Hall, a thrice-divorced mother of three children. At this time, Warnke began courting Hall while still married to his second wife. Warnke's second marriage came to an end when, as Alberty stated in an interview, \"[Warnke] threw me into a wall and split my head open. He said, 'If you go to a local hospital and tell them what your name is, I'll kill you.'\" Alberty fled to Florida. By November 1979, their divorce was final, and Warnke moved to Hall's farm in Kentucky. On January 2, 1980, Warnke and Hall were married.\n\nWarnke and his label, Word Records, feuded over an album which he eventually produced and distributed on his own, \"A Christian's Perspective on Halloween \" (1979). Word Records and Warnke reconciled by 1981, resulting in \"Coming Home\" (1981), and now including wife Rose, \"Higher Education\" (1982) and \"Growing Up\" (1983). Then under Word's Dayspring label, he released (solo) \"Stuff Happens\" (1985), \"Good News Tonight\" (1986), \"One In A Million\" (1988), \"Live ... Totally Weird\" (1989). Warnke also made a VHS home video, \"Do You Hear Me?\" (1989).\n\nDuring the 1980s, Warnke's ministry prospered, as Warnke and his new wife toured and performed together, raising millions of dollars for their ministry. Contributions to the ministry were over $1 million in 1985, and over $2 million each year from 1987 through 1990. As the Warnkes' popularity waxed, their personal relationship waned. In 1984, Warnke's wife wrote, \"Satan provided a woman to fill the gap in Michael's life.\" The Warnkes separated in 1989 and later divorced in 1991. Six weeks after the divorce was finalized, Warnke married Rim of the World High School alumna Susan Patton.\n\nIn 1982, Warnke began to exaggerate his achievements. During the 1980s, Warnke's claims of academic degrees increased from two Bachelor's degrees to two Master's Degrees to a Doctorate of Philosophy. In \"The Satan Seller\", Warnke says he was wounded twice while in Vietnam. In \"Hitchhiking on Hope Street\", he said he had been wounded five times. Warnke followed up his interest in the Syro-Chaldean tradition and his 1970s ordination as a deacon with a 1983 ordination by independent bishop Richard Morrill, lately of the Byzantine Catholic Church, Inc. This ordination allowed Warnke to call himself bishop.\n\nOn May 16, 1985, Warnke appeared in a prime-time news report about Satanism on ABC's \"20/20\". In the show's episode titled \"The Devil Worshippers\", Warnke was included in a number of segments where he discussed the implements and clothing used in Satanic ceremonies, a scar allegedly indicating where he was repeatedly cut so that his blood could be used in Satanic ceremonies, and what drew him to Satanism. After Warnke's appearance on \"20/20\", he was frequently cited as an expert on the occult by Christian radio host Bob Larson and the Chick Publications stable of authors.\n\nIn 1991, \"Cornerstone\" magazine launched an investigation into Warnke's life and testimony. The previous year, Cornerstone had debunked Lauren Stratford's story that had been recounted in \"Satan's Underground\". Stratford claimed her deep involvement in Satanism led her to partake in a ritual in which her own child was sacrificed. After the exposé showed Stratford's alleged child had never existed, Cornerstone journalists Mike Hertenstein and Jon Trott investigated Warnke and his life.\n\nThe \"Cornerstone\" investigation spanned from interviews with over 100 of Warnke's personal friends and acquaintances to his ministry's tax receipts. The investigation revealed a number of inaccuracies and evidence of fraud and deceit in Warnke's accounts. During the course of \"Cornerstone\"'s investigation, pictures of Warnke taken during the time he was alleged to be a Satanist priest were discovered. Rather than showing an emaciated drug-addict sporting long fingernails and waist-length hair, the pictures showed Warnke as a typical 'square' of the mid-1960s. The investigation also revealed Warnke's claims that he and Charles Manson had attended a Satanic ritual to be false; Manson was in federal prison at the time, having no known ties to Satanic churches.\n\nThe investigation further uncovered that before joining the Navy, Warnke had been involved with the college Christian ministry Campus Crusade for Christ. The investigation also revealed the unflattering circumstances surrounding Warnke's multiple marriages, affairs, and divorces. Most critically, however, the investigation showed how Warnke could not have done the many things he claimed to have taken part in throughout the nine months he claimed to be a Satanist - including his claims to be a drug-addicted dealer or a Satanic high priest.\n\nBefore publishing the article, \"Cornerstone\" contacted Warnke for an interview, but he and \"Cornerstone\" could not agree to the terms of an interview. In June 1992, at the annual Christian Booksellers Association convention, \"Cornerstone\" revealed its story.\n\nWarnke sent a response to \"Cornerstone\", published in July, insisting he told the truth, stating:\n\nPublic response was varied but was nevertheless overwhelmingly against Warnke. Initially, Word Records stated that they would stand by their artist. However, further investigations by local Kentucky reporters at the \"Lexington Herald-Leader\" revealed that Warnke's ministry had engaged in financial misdeeds and that \"Mike, his ex-wife Rose, and her brother Neale [Hall] received a total of $809,680 in salary at a time when the ministry newsletter claimed donations were down and more funds were needed.\" One week later, Word Records dropped Warnke from its label. Finally, on September 30, 1992, fewer than 100 days after the investigation was made public, Warnke Ministries closed its doors.\n\nIn the spring of 1993, Warnke submitted to the authority of an assembly of ministers \"acting as elders\", acknowledging his \"ungodliness\", his \"multiple divorces\", his \"failure as husband, father, and friend\", and of \"embellishment and exaggeration ... in an attempt ... to entertain\", and offering to pay back taxes to the federal government. The group recommended specific changes to the ministry, including a salary cap and accountability reports. Nonetheless, he continued to \"stand by [his] testimony of former Satanic involvement\" stating in a 2000 interview with the \"Daily Oklahoman\", \"Exaggeration did creep into some of my stories, but my testimony is still my testimony.\" As of 2006, a letter posted on Warnke's web site indicated the group had released him as having met their accountability requirements.\n\nIn 1997, Warnke suffered a heart attack. In 2000, he began attempting a comeback, limited to small churches in Kentucky. In 2002, he published \"Friendly Fire: A Recovery Guide for Believers Battered by Religion\" (), an account of what he perceived as his unfair treatment by fellow Christians in the wake of the \"Cornerstone\" exposé. By 2004, he was making occasional performing appearances at churches around the country, often referred to simply as \"Christian comedian Mike Warnke\", and sometimes as a former Satanic priest although some mentions in the news referred to the \"Cornerstone\" exposé.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56340573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56340573", "title": "Nina Raspopova", "text": "Nina Raspopova\n\nNina Maksimovna Raspopova (; 31 December 1913 – 2 July 2009) was a commander in the 46th Taman Guards Night Bomber Aviation Regiment, 325th Night Bomber Aviation Division, 4th Air Army, 2nd Belorussian Front during World War II. For her service in the military she was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union on 15 May 1946.\n\nRaspopova was born on 31 December 1913 to a Russian family in the city of Magdagachi in the Russian Empire. She graduated from the Blagoveshchensk Mining College before graduating from the Khabarovsk flight school in 1933. She then moved on to the Central Aeroclub in Moscow for the remainder of her civil aviation training and graduated in 1940. Before enlisting in the military she worked as a geologist in mines in Transbaikalia as well as a flight instructor in Spassk of the Far Eastern Territories and in the Omsk and Mytishchi flight clubs of Moscow. At one point the Komsomol forbid her and several other students from flying, but the decision was eventually revoked and Raspopova was permitted to fly again.\n\nRaspopova joined the military in October 1941 after the start of the Great Patriotic War and after completing training was sent to the Eastern front in May 1942.\n\nOn one mission in 1942 after a standard bombing attack the Polikarpov Po-2 she was flying was hit by anti-aircraft fire from Axis forces. To avoid more fire, she maneuvered the plane into a steep dive leading Axis forces into thinking they had been shot down; when she began to increase altitude over a lake, her navigator noticed that the fuel tank had been punctured from the fire.\n\nOn another mission that same year her Po-2 was again hit by anti-aircraft fire, that time causing more damage to the aircraft. The fuel tank exploded and sprayed fuel over the cabin, damaged the engines, and seriously injured her navigator Larissa Radchikova. The plane landed on a minefield but all crew members were rescued by an artillery unit commissioner sent to search for them. Having sustained several injuries requiring surgery, Raspopova received surgery and returned to the military in less than two months.\n\nShe participated in the battles of Crimea, Berlin, and Warsaw. In the war she made 805 sorties, sometimes making as many as eight sorties in one night.\n\nRaspopova was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union and an Order of Lenin on 15 May 1946 for \"for exemplary fulfillment of commanded missions and demonstration of courage and heroism in battles against the German fascist invaders\".\n\nShe did not continue an aviation career after the war, but stayed in touch with many of fellow members of the regiment, remaining social and working as a secretary for a local council. She passed away at the age of 96 in Mytischi, Moscow in 2 July 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31837940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837940", "title": "North Carolina Highway Patrol K-9 incident", "text": "North Carolina Highway Patrol K-9 incident\n\nOn August 8, 2007, during a canine training exercise, North Carolina Highway Patrol Sgt. Charles L. Jones was video taped by cell phone hanging his assigned police dog by the neck and repeatedly kicking the dog in order for it to release a chew toy that was in the dog's mouth. Jones claimed he was following proper canine handling procedure.\n\nThe incident originally led to Jones being dismissed and North Carolina canceling its Highway Patrol K-9 program, but on November 22, 2010, a North Carolina Superior Court Judge ruled that Jones was improperly dismissed, and awarded Jones back salary and attorney fees.\n\nOn August 8, 2007, during a training process at the North Carolina Highway Patrol Training Center, Trooper Ray Herndon video taped Jones hanging and kicking his assigned police dog, a Belgian Shepherd Dog (Malinois) named Ricoh, when the dog refused to release its favorite chew toy. After the training exercise, the video footage was given to Jones' superiors, however, no action was taken to investigate or discipline Jones. One supervisor's administrative assistant was Jones' wife, and both lived in the superior's house in Wake County, North Carolina. Jones' other supervisor was given a written warning for failing to report the existence of the video to his superiors.\n\nOn August 28, 2007, the video tape and investigation was given to the internal affairs unit of the Highway Patrol and ultimately the matter was turned over to the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation and the Wake County, North Carolina district attorney's office. On August 31, 2007, Jones was placed on paid administrative leave while being investigated. On September 8, 2007, Jones was given a pre-dismissal hearing. Internal affairs recommended Jones be terminated, and Jones was terminated the following day.\n\nIn April 2008, a three-day hearing was held in Jones' lawsuit against the state of North Carolina and the North Carolina Highway Patrol for wrongful termination. According to Jones, his technique for forcing the dog to release the chew toy was part of standard police dog training. On April 30, 2008 the Secretary of the State Department of Crime Control and Public Safety suspended the operations of the K-9 program, saying he was disturbed by evidence at Jones' hearing that some troopers thought kicking a dog was acceptable training.\n\nIn October 2008, the North Carolina State Personnel Commission ordered the Highway Patrol to reinstate Jones, stating it did not find \"just cause to dismiss for unacceptable personal conduct.\" However, it did find \"sufficient cause for discipline for unsatisfactory job performance.\" \n\nSeveral animal advocate groups campaigned for Officer Jones to face criminal charges for his actions, however, no criminal charges were filed. Jones' police dog, Ricoh, was removed from his possession and retired.\n\nIn late October 2008, Ricoh was found living back with Jones. The Highway Patrol had given Ricoh to another trooper after it was retired, and that trooper gave the dog back to Jones. That trooper testified on his behalf at the April 2008 hearing to reinstate Jones. The Highway Patrol had asked the trooper to return the dog, but he refused.\n\nAccording to Jones' own reports of more than 240 training sessions leading up to the kicking incident, Jones issued one positive report after another for Ricoh. For the past 18 months, the reports showed that Ricoh obeyed voice commands and hand signals, found illegal drugs stashed in cars and buildings, or passed by those that were clean. He was praised, rewarded or both nearly every time. \"Ricoh was utilized for an obedience exercise,\" Jones wrote in one report on June 11, 2007. \"Ricoh did well following all voice and hand commands. Ricoh was rewarded and praised.\" However, Jones and his former fellow officers testified that Ricoh was a \"maniac\" and \"hard to handle\". The discrepancy between the reports and the testimony prompted a criminal investigation by the State Bureau of Investigation.\n\nIn December 2008, after the testimony of Jones and his former fellow officers about their canine handling techniques, the North Carolina Highway Patrol canceled its K-9 program indefinitely. In June 2009, the patrol implemented a new program with new dogs and handlers. Six Labrador Retrievers had been paired with freshly trained troopers. The Highway Patrol now uses Labrador Retrievers instead of Shepherd breeds, because they are better at detecting drugs, which is the dogs' primary duty.\n\nAfter the Highway Patrol refused to rehire Jones following an October 2008 ruling by a state committee that Jones should be reinstated, Jones sued the state of North Carolina and the Highway Patrol for reinstatement and back salary plus attorney's fees.\n\nOn November 22, 2010, a superior court judge ruled that Jones was improperly dismissed, and that Jones should receive back salary and attorney fees. The judge ruled that although Jones' actions were not among the training techniques specifically approved by the Highway Patrol, \"they were no worse than the agency's accepted methods.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28867506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28867506", "title": "Phantom settlement", "text": "Phantom settlement\n\nPhantom settlements, or paper towns, are settlements that appear on maps but do not actually exist. They are either accidents or copyright traps. Notable examples include Argleton, Lancashire, UK and Beatosu and Goblu, US.\n\nAgloe, New York, was invented on a 1930s map as a copyright trap. In 1950, a general store was built there and named Agloe General Store, as that was the name seen on the map. Thus the phantom settlement became a real one.\n\nThere are also misnamed settlements, such as the villages of Mawdesky and Dummy 1325 in Lancashire on Google Maps.\n\nThere is a humorous conspiracy theory that the German city of Bielefeld is a phantom settlement, despite that it has a population of over 300,000.\n"}
{"id": "41269179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41269179", "title": "Pikkujoulu", "text": "Pikkujoulu\n\nPikkujoulu (Finnish for \"little Christmas\") is a Finnish traditional party held to anticipate Christmas. The Pikkujoulu party is non-formal, highly festive, and themed after Christmas. Pikkujoulu parties are held by various communities, organisations, companies, or just among friends.\n\nPikkujoulu differs from Christmas as more free-form and less religious. Traditionally, Pikkujoulu is a day when Christmas dishes are served for the first time. These include rice pudding with fruit. The most traditional Pikkujoulu drink is called “glögi” (the Finnish equivalent of the German Glühwein or mulled wine), which can be served with or without alcohol. Glögi is made of hot juice or red wine and spiced with cinnamon, ginger, clove, raisins, and almonds. \n\nFor entertainment, there are festive speeches often followed by jokes or humorous sketches, after which, mock awards are given out. Song books are then passed out and happy Christmas hits are sung in Finnish, English, or Swedish. Christmas karaoke has become quite popular, and any performer will garner applause, no matter how unpleasant they may sound. There could also be a band, stand-up comedian, magician, or funny play. Every Pikkujoulu celebration has a Santa Claus giving out little gag gifts. \nIn 2011, the Pikkujoulu Christmas parties around Helsinki, Finland caused 400 police calls on the same night. Helsinki police attributed the high number of calls to alcohol consumption. \n\nThe Finnish Pikkujoulu is similar to other Nordic pre Christmas traditions, such as the Norwegian julebord and Swedish julbord. In recent years some Norwegians have started to adapt their julebord to the Pikkujoulu, washing out the differences between these Nordic pre Christmas traditions.\n\nPikkujoulu is based on the Advent: the Advent signified the waiting for Jesus Christ and the fasting, which ended on Christmas. In the 19th century, the Advent was sometimes called \"the little Christmas\", i.e. Pikkujoulu. The tradition originates from Germany and Sweden in the 1800s, before being taken up by Finnish students.\n\nThe proper Pikkujoulu tradition started in Helsinki after World War I. The basis for the party was \"Christmas tree parties\" held in schools. The supper parties held at the end of autumn by student nations gradually formed into the modern Pikkujoulu. Pikkujoulu parties started by student nations grew out to other communities in the 1930s. Before World War II, the parties were sometimes called \"porridge parties\".\n\nThe private family Pikkujoulu is probably based on a tradition stating that the nameday of Tuomas, 21 December, is the first day when tasting home-made beer is allowed. In Sweden, the Tuomas nameday evening is called \"Lilla jul\" (\"little Christmas\"). In time, the tradition evolved to the Saint Lucy's Day celebration, which still resembles the Finnish Pikkujoulu.\n\n"}
{"id": "21959715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21959715", "title": "Portland Chamber Music Festival", "text": "Portland Chamber Music Festival\n\nThe Portland Chamber Music Festival is an annual chamber music festival located in Portland, Maine. Founded in 1994 by Jennifer Elowitch (violinist) and Dena Levine (pianist), the festival presents a summer concert series in August at the Abromson Community Education Center.\nIn addition, the festival presents mid-season concerts at SPACE Gallery in Portland and elsewhere in the region.\n\n\nThe Festival has played to a nationwide audience on National Public Radio; has been awarded three grants from the Aaron Copland Fund for Music for performance of American contemporary music; has been recorded and broadcast by WGBH radio in Boston; and has been featured in both local and national press.\n\nPerformers in recent years have included members of the Vermeer, Mendelssohn, Borromeo, and Brentano String Quartets. Resident Composers have included Lee Hyla, Chen Yi, Osvaldo Golijov, Earl Kim, Michael Gandolfi, Melinda Wagner, Peter Child, and many others.\n\nPCMF also hosts an annual free children’s concert, a Young Artist Apprentice Program, and adult chamber music workshops. The Festival also conducts an annual Composer’s Competition, culminating in the winning work’s premiere at a PCMF summer concert.\n"}
{"id": "45335222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45335222", "title": "Procession of the Golden Tree", "text": "Procession of the Golden Tree\n\nThe Procession of the Golden Tree or Pageant of the Golden Tree (in Dutch: \"Praalstoet van de Gouden Boom\" or \"Gouden Boomstoet\") is a historical pageant held in the city of Bruges every five years to commemorate the celebration there in 1468 of the wedding of Charles the Bold and Margaret of York. It has been organised since 1958.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1592843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1592843", "title": "Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Festival", "text": "Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Festival\n\nThe Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav (formerly known as the Sawai Gandharva Sangeet Mahotsav and simply known as Sawai) is an annual Indian Classical music festival held in Pune since 1953. The festival is hosted by the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal (ASPM) and initiated by Bhimsen Joshi as a memorial music conference commemorating the life and work of Joshi's guru, Sawai Gandharva, the festival's namesake.\n\nWhile Joshi was leading the organisation of the festival, performing artists received personal invitations from him to perform at it. With an emphasis on Hindustani Classical Khayal music, instrumentalists, dancers, dhrupadiyas, Bhakti musicians, Ghazal musicians, Qawwaliyas, and Carnatic musicians frequent the concert lineup.\n\nA younger artist's debut performance at the festival connotes their \"arrival\" and promise to the Classical music scene of India (most recently including Rahul Deshpande, Kaushiki Chakrabarty, and Mahesh Kale).\n\nSince its inception, the festival has grown into a prominent cultural soiree for Pune's musical connoisseurs, featuring the foremost musicians of traditional Indian musical forms.\n\nThe festival was started in 1953 on a small scale, to commemorate the first death anniversary of Sawai Gandharva, the acclaimed Hindustani Classical vocalist of the Kirana Gharana.\n\nBhimsen Joshi led the organisation of the festival from its beginning until 2002 when his health problems became of concern. Joshi's youngest son, Shrinivas Joshi, and senior disciple, Shrikant Deshpande, succeeded him as organisers. Since Joshi's death in 2011, Shrinivas Joshi and Anand Deshmukh have been the main organisers.\n\nThe 2009 Festival was postponed to January 2010 due to an H1N1 scare in Pune. Heavy rain on 13 December 2014 caused the festival to be postponed until 1 January 2015.\n\nWhen Bhimsen Joshi died on 24 January 2011, the ASPM decided to rename the festival from its original name of 'Sawai Gandharva Mahotsav' to 'Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav' in his honour.\n\nThe Sawai Gandharva Music Festival is conducted every year in the first two weeks of December over three days. In the past, the festival runs through whole the night and the days used to end in the morning. Later on, when Pune Municipal Corporation set rule to finish the program before 10 pm which leads to change in the schedule of the program. Traditionally, each festival is inaugurated with a tribute honoring Sawai Gandharva, with a Shehnai musician performing first, in the early morning. During the first two days, programs begin in the late-afternoon and are supposed to officially end by 10 pm. On the third and final day (previously a Saturday, now usually a Sunday), the programme is conducted in two sessions, the first beginning in the early morning continuing until the early afternoon, the second session begins in the early evening and ends at 10 p.m.\n\nTradition was that the finale performance was presented by Bhimsen Joshi. Since his retirement, other members of the Kirana Gharana took on the role, including Sangmeshwar Gurav in 2005 and leading disciples of Joshi in 2006. The vocalist Prabha Atre has concluded every festival since 2007.\n\nThe festival officially concludes with the entire audience and remaining performers listening to the Thumri in Raag Bhairavi recording \"Jamuna Ke Teer\" by Sawai Gandharva, a tune made famous by and signature of his guru, Abdul Karim Khan.\n\nThe Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal takes the task of recording details of the festival each year. The festival has been recorded in picture, video and audio, some of which is commercially available. Festivals are listed counter-chronologically.\n\n\n\nhttp://sawaigandharvabhimsenmahotsav.com/category/artist-list/artist-list-2008/11th-dec-2008\n\n"}
{"id": "173634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173634", "title": "Sexual slavery", "text": "Sexual slavery\n\nSexual slavery and sexual exploitation is attaching the right of ownership over one or more persons with the intent of coercing or otherwise forcing them to engage in one or more sexual activities. This includes forced labor, reducing a person to a servile status (including forced marriage) and sex trafficking persons, such as the sexual trafficking of children.\n\nSexual slavery may also involve single-owner sexual slavery; ritual slavery, sometimes associated with certain religious practices, such as ritual servitude in Ghana, Togo and Benin; slavery for primarily non-sexual purposes but where non-consensual sexual activity is common; or forced prostitution. Concubinage was a traditional form of sexual slavery in many cultures, in which women spent their lives in sexual servitude. In some cultures, concubines and their children had distinct rights and legitimate social positions.\n\nThe Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action calls for an international effort to eradicate sexual slavery as an abuse of human rights. The incidence of sexual slavery by country has been studied and tabulated by UNESCO, with the cooperation of various international agencies.\n\nThe Rome Statute (1998) (which defines the crimes over which the International Criminal Court may have jurisdiction) encompasses crimes against humanity (Article 7) which include \"enslavement\" (Article 7.1.c) and \"sexual enslavement\" (Article 7.1.g) \"when committed as part of a widespread or systematic attack directed against any civilian population\". It also defines sexual enslavement as a war crime and a breach of the Geneva Conventions when committed during an international armed conflict (Article 8.b.xxii) and indirectly in an internal armed conflict under Article(8.c.ii), but the courts jurisdiction over war crimes is explicitly excluded from including crimes committed during \"situations of internal disturbances and tensions, such as riots, isolated and sporadic acts of violence or other acts of a similar nature\" (Article 8.d).\n\nThe text of the Rome Statute does not explicitly define sexual enslavement, but does define enslavement as \"the exercise of any or all of the powers attaching to the right of ownership over a person and includes the exercise of such power in the course of trafficking in persons, in particular women and children\" (Article 7.2.c).\n\nIn the commentary on the Rome Statute, Mark Klamberg states:\n\nCommercial sexual exploitation of adults (often referred to as \"sex trafficking\") is a type of human trafficking involving the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of people, by coercive or abusive means for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Commercial sexual exploitation is not the only form of human trafficking and estimates vary as to the percentage of human trafficking which is for the purpose of transporting someone into sexual slavery.\n\nThe BBC News cited a report by UNODC as listing the most common destinations for victims of human trafficking in 2007 as Thailand, Japan, Israel, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Turkey and the US. The report lists Thailand, China, Nigeria, Albania, Bulgaria, Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine as major sources of trafficked persons.\n\nCommercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC) includes child prostitution (or child sex trafficking), child sex tourism, child pornography, or other forms of transactional sex with children. The Youth Advocate Program International (YAPI) describes CSEC as a form of coercion and violence against children and a contemporary form of slavery.\n\nA declaration of the World Congress Against the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, held in Stockholm in 1996, defined CSEC as, \"sexual abuse by the adult and remuneration in cash or in kind to the child or to a third person or persons. The child is treated as a sexual object and as a commercial object\".\n\nChild prostitution, or child sex trafficking, is a form of sexual slavery. It is the commercial sexual exploitation of children, in which a child performs the services of prostitution, usually for the financial benefit of an adult.\n\nIndia's federal police said in 2009 that they believed around 1.2 million children in India to be involved in prostitution. A CBI statement said that studies and surveys sponsored by the Ministry of Women and Child Development estimated about 40% of India's prostitutes to be children.\n\nThailand’s Health System Research Institute reported that children in prostitution make up 40% of prostitutes in Thailand.\n\nIn some parts of the world, child prostitution is tolerated or ignored by the authorities. Reflecting an attitude which prevails in many developing countries, a judge from Honduras said, on condition of anonymity: \"If the victim [the child prostitute] is older than 12, if he or she refuses to file a complaint and if the parents clearly profit from their child's commerce, we tend to look the other way\".\n\nChild sex tourism is a form child sex trafficking, and is mainly centered on buying and selling children into sexual slavery. It is when an adult travels to a foreign country for the purpose of engaging in commercially facilitated child sexual abuse. Child sex tourism results in both mental and physical consequences for the exploited children, that may include \"disease (including HIV/AIDS), drug addiction, pregnancy, malnutrition, social ostracism, and possibly death\", according to the State Department of the United States. Thailand, Cambodia, India, Brazil and Mexico have been identified as leading hotspots of child sexual exploitation.\n\nChild pornography, sometimes referred to as 'child abuse images', refers to images or films depicting sexually explicit activities involving a child. As such, child pornography is often a visual record of child sexual abuse. Abuse of the child occurs during the sexual acts which are photographed in the production of child pornography, and the effects of the abuse on the child (and continuing into maturity) are compounded by the wide distribution and lasting availability of the photographs of the abuse.\n\nChild sex trafficking often involves child pornography. Children are commonly purchased and sold for sexual purposes without the parents knowing. In these cases, children are often used to produce child pornography, especially sadistic forms of child pornography where they may be tortured.\n\nMost, if not all, forms of forced prostitution may be viewed as a kind of sexual slavery. The terms \"forced prostitution\" and \"enforced prostitution\" appear in international and humanitarian conventions but have been insufficiently understood and inconsistently applied. \"Forced prostitution\" generally refers to conditions of control over a person who is coerced by another to engage in sexual activity.\n\nThe issue of consent in prostitution is hotly debated. Opinion in places such as Europe has been divided over the question of whether prostitution should be considered as a free choice or as inherently exploitative of women. The law in Sweden, Norway and Iceland – where it is illegal to pay for sex, but not to sell sexual services – is based on the notion that all forms of prostitution are inherently exploitative, opposing the notion that prostitution can be voluntary. In contrast, prostitution is a recognized profession in countries such as the Netherlands and Germany.\n\nIn 1949 the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others (the 1949 Convention). The 1949 Convention supersedes a number of earlier conventions that covered some aspects of forced prostitution. Signatories are charged with three obligations under the 1949 Convention: prohibition of trafficking, specific administrative and enforcement measures, and social measures aimed at trafficked persons. The 1949 Convention presents two shifts in perspective of the trafficking problem in that it views prostitutes as victims of the procurers, and in that it eschews the terms \"white slave traffic\" and \"women,\" using for the first time race- and gender-neutral language. Article 1 of the 1949 Convention provides punishment for any person who \"[p]rocures, entices or leads away, for purposes of prostitution, another person\" or \"[e]xploits the prostitution of another person, even with the consent of that person.\" To fall under the provisions of the 1949 Convention, the trafficking need not cross international lines.\n\nA forced marriage is a marriage where one or both participants are married, without their freely given consent. Forced marriage is a form of sexual slavery. Causes for forced marriages include customs such as bride price and dowry; poverty; the importance given to female premarital virginity; \"family honor\"; the fact that marriage is considered in certain communities a social arrangement between the extended families of the bride and groom; limited education and economic options; perceived protection of cultural or religious traditions; assisting immigration. Forced marriage is most common in parts of South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe Rome Statute Explanatory Memorandum, which defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, recognizes rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilization, \"or any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity\" as crime against humanity if the action is part of a widespread or systematic practice. Sexual slavery was first recognized as a crime against humanity when the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia issued arrest warrants based on the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws or Customs of War. Specifically, it was recognised that Muslim women in Foča (southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina) were subjected to systematic and widespread gang rape, torture and sexual enslavement by Bosnian Serb soldiers, policemen, and members of paramilitary groups after the takeover of the city in April 1992. The indictment was of major legal significance and was the first time that sexual assaults were investigated for the purpose of prosecution under the rubric of torture and enslavement as a crime against humanity. The indictment was confirmed by a 2001 verdict by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia that rape and sexual enslavement are crimes against humanity. This ruling challenged the widespread acceptance of rape and sexual enslavement of women as intrinsic part of war. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia found three Bosnian Serb men guilty of rape of Bosniac (Bosnian Muslim) women and girls – some as young as 12 and 15 years of age – in Foča, eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina. The charges were brought as crimes against humanity and war crimes. Furthermore, two of the men were found guilty of the crime against humanity of sexual enslavement for holding women and girls captive in a number of de facto detention centers. Many of the women had subsequently disappeared.\n\nIn areas controlled by Islamic militants, non-Muslim women are enslaved in occupied territories. Many Islamists see the abolition of slavery as forced upon Muslims by the West and want to revive the practice of slavery. (See: Slavery in 21st-century Islamism).\n\nBride kidnapping, also known as marriage by abduction or marriage by captive, is a form of forced marriage practised in some traditional cultures. Bride kidnapping has reportedly occurred in countries spanning Central Asia, the Caucasus region, parts of Africa, and among the Hmong in southeast Asia, the Tzeltal in Mexico, and the Romani in Europe. Though the motivations behind bride kidnapping vary by region, the cultures with traditions of marriage by abduction are generally patriarchal with a strong social stigma against sex or pregnancy outside marriage and illegitimate births. In most cases, however, the men who resort to capturing a wife are often of lower social status, whether because of poverty, disease, poor character or criminality. In some cases, the couple collude together to elope under the guise of a bride kidnapping, presenting their parents with a fait accompli. These men are sometimes deterred from legitimately seeking a wife because of the payment the woman's family expects, the bride price (not to be confused with a dowry, paid \"by\" the woman's family).\nBride kidnapping is distinguished from \"raptio\" in that the former refers to the abduction of one woman by one man (and/or his friends and relatives), and is often a widespread and ongoing practice. The latter refers to the large-scale abduction of women by groups of men, most frequently in a time of war (see also war rape). The Latin term \"raptio\" refers to abduction of women, either for marriage (by kidnapping or elopement) or enslavement (particularly sexual slavery). In Roman Catholic canon law, \"raptio\" refers to the legal prohibition of matrimony if the bride was abducted forcibly (Canon 1089 CIC).\n\nThe practice of \"raptio\" is surmised to have existed since anthropological antiquity. In Neolithic Europe, excavation of a Linear Pottery culture site at Asparn-Schletz, Austria, unearthed the remains of numerous slain victims. Among them, young adult females and children were clearly under-represented, suggesting that perhaps the attackers had killed the men but abducted the young females.\n\nRape and sexual violence have accompanied warfare in virtually every known historical era. Before the 19th century, military circles supported the notion that all persons, including unarmed women and children, were still the enemy, with the belligerent (nation or person engaged in conflict) having conquering rights over them.\n\"To the victor goes the spoils\" has been a war cry for centuries and women were included as part of the spoils of war. Institutionalised sexual slavery and enforced prostitution have been documented in a number of wars, most notably the Second World War (See #During the Second World War) and in the War in Bosnia.\n\nEmploying female and occasionally male slaves for prostitution was common in the Hellenistic and Roman world. Ample references exist in literature, law, military reports and art. A prostitute (slave or free) existed outside the moral codex restricting sexuality in Greco-Roman society and enjoyed little legal protection. See ancient Rome's law on rape as an example. Male intercourse with a slave was not considered adultery by either society.\n\nDuring the Chinese domination of Vietnam, Vietnamese girls were sold as sex slaves to the Chinese. A large trade developed where the native girls of Vietnam were enslaved and brought north to the Chinese. Southern Yue girls were sexually eroticized in Chinese literature and in poems written by Chinese who were exiled to the south.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, Portuguese visitors and their South Asian \"lascar\" (and sometimes African) crewmembers often engaged in slavery in Japan, where they bought or captured young Japanese women and girls, who were either used as sexual slaves on their ships or taken to Macau and other Portuguese colonies in Southeast Asia, the Americas, and India. For example, in Goa, a Portuguese colony in India, there was a community of Japanese slaves and traders during the late 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nDuring the 1662 Siege of Fort Zeelandia in which Chinese Ming loyalist forces commanded by Koxinga besieged and defeated the Dutch East India Company and conquered Taiwan, the Chinese took Dutch women and children prisoner. The Dutch missionary Antonius Hambroek, two of his daughters, and his wife were among the Dutch prisoners of war with Koxinga. Koxinga sent Hambroek to Fort Zeelandia demanding he persuade them to surrender or else Hambroek would be killed when he returned. Hambroek returned to the Fort, where two of his other daughters were. He urged the Fort not to surrender, and returned to Koxinga's camp. He was then executed by decapitation, and in addition to this, a rumor was spreading among the Chinese that the Dutch were encouraging the native Taiwan aboriginals to kill Chinese, so Koxinga ordered the mass execution of Dutch male prisoners in retaliation, in addition to a few women and children also being killed. The surviving Dutch women and children were then turned into slaves. Koxinga took Hambroek's teenage daughter as a concubine, and Dutch women were sold to Chinese soldiers to become their wives, the daily journal of the Dutch fort recorded that \"the best were preserved for the use of the commanders, and then sold to the common soldiers. Happy was she that fell to the lot of an unmarried man, being thereby freed from vexations by the Chinese women, who are very jealous of their husbands.\" In 1684 some of these Dutch wives were still captives of the Chinese. Some Dutch physical looks like auburn and red hair among people in regions of south Taiwan are a consequence of this episode of Dutch women becoming concubines to the Chinese commanders. The Chinese took Dutch women as slave concubines and wives and they were never freed: in 1684 some were reported to be living, in Quemoy a Dutch merchant was contacted with an arrangement to release the prisoners which was proposed by a son of Koxinga's but it came to nothing. The Chinese officers used the Dutch women they received as concubines. The Dutch women were used for sexual pleasure by Koxinga's commanders. This event of Dutch women being distributed to the Chinese soldiers and commanders was recorded in the daily journal of the fort. A teenage daughter of the Dutch missionary Anthonius Hambroek became a concubine to Koxinga, she was described by the Dutch commander Caeuw as \"a very sweet and pleasing maiden\". Dutch language accounts record this incident of Chinese taking Dutch women as concubines and the date of Hambroek's daughter\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, there was a network of Chinese prostitutes trafficked to cities like Singapore, and a separate network of Japanese prostitutes being trafficked across Asia, in countries such as China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and British India, in what was then known as the ’Yellow Slave Traffic’. There was also a network of prostitutes from continental Europe being trafficked to India, Ceylon, Singapore, China and Japan at around the same time, in what was then known as the ’White Slave Traffic’. were Japanese girls and women in the late 19th and early 20th centuries who were trafficked from poverty stricken agricultural prefectures in Japan to destinations in East Asia, Southeast Asia, Siberia (Russian Far East), Manchuria, and British India to serve as prostitutes and sexually serviced men from a variety of races, including Chinese, Europeans, native Southeast Asians, and others. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, there was a network of Japanese prostitutes being trafficked across Asia, in countries such as China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and British India, in what was then known as the ’Yellow Slave Traffic’. The main destinations of \"karayuki-san\" included China (particularly Shanghai), Hong Kong, the Philippines, Borneo, Sumatra, Thailand, Indonesia, and the western USA (in particular San Francisco). They were often sent to Western colonies in Asia where there was a strong demand from Western military personnel and Chinese men. The experience of Japanese prostitutes in China was written about in a book by a Japanese woman, Tomoko Yamazaki. Japanese girls were easily trafficked abroad since Korean and Chinese ports did not require Japanese citizens to use passports and the Japanese government realized that money earned by the karayuki-san helped the Japanese economy since it was being remmitted, and the Chinese boycott of Japanese products in 1919 led to reliance on revenue from the karayuki-san. Since the Japanese viewed non-westerners as inferior, the karayuki-san Japanese women felt humiliated since they mainly sexually served Chinese men or native Southeast Asians. Borneo natives, Malaysians, Chinese, Japanese, French, American, British and men from every race utilized the Japanese prostitutes of Sandakan. A Japanese woman named Osaki said that the men, Japanese, Chinese, whites, and natives, were dealt with alike by the prostitutes regardless of race, and that a Japanese prostitute's \"most disgusting customers\" were Japanese men, while they used \"kind enough\" to describe Chinese men, and the English and Americans were the second best clients, while the native men were the best and fastest to have sex with.\n\nDuring World War II, Empire of Japan organised a governmental system of \"comfort women\", which is a euphemism of military sex slaves for the estimated 200,000, mostly Korean, Chinese, and Filipino women who were forced into sexual slavery in Japanese military \"comfort stations\" during World War II. Japan collected, carried, and confined Asian ladies coercively and collusively to have sexual intercourse with Japan's soldiers during their invasions across East Asia and Southeast Asia. Some Korean women claim that these cases should be judged by an international tribunal as child sex violence. The legal demand has been made because of the victims' anger at what they see as the inequity of the existing legal measures and the denial of Japan's involvement in child sex slavery and kidnapping. On 28 December 2015, Japan and South Korea agreed that Japan would pay 1 billion Yen into a fund for a Memorial Hall of comfort women. Despite this agreement, some Korean victims have complained that they were not consulted during the negotiation process. They demand that Japan and Korea did not seek both the legal recognition of their claim and the revision of Japanese history textbooks.\n\nSlave trade, including trade of sex slaves, fluctuated in certain regions in the Middle East up until the 20th century. These slaves came largely from Sub-Saharan Africa (mainly \"Zanj\"), the Caucasus (mainly Circassians), Central Asia (mainly Sogdians) and Central and Eastern Europe (mainly \"Saqaliba\"). The Barbary pirates also captured 1.25 million slaves from Western Europe between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nIn contrast to the Atlantic slave trade where the male-female ratio was 2:1 or 3:1, the Arab slave trade usually had a higher female:male ratio instead, suggesting a general preference for female slaves. Concubinage and reproduction served as incentives for importing female slaves (often European), though many were also imported mainly for performing household tasks.\n\nIn English-speaking countries in the 19th and early 20th centuries, the phrase \"white slavery\" was used to refer to sexual enslavement of white women. It was particularly associated with accounts of women enslaved in Middle Eastern harems, such as the so-called Circassian beauties. The phrase gradually came to be used as a euphemism for prostitution. The phrase was especially common in the context of the exploitation of minors, with the implication that children and young women in such circumstances were not free to decide their own fates.\nIn Victorian Britain, campaigning journalist William Thomas Stead, editor of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\", procured a 13-year-old girl for £5, an amount then equal to a labourer's monthly wage (\"see\" the Eliza Armstrong case). Moral panic over the \"traffic in women\" rose to a peak in England in the 1880s. At the time, \"white slavery\" was a natural target for defenders of public morality and crusading journalists. The ensuing outcry led to the passage of antislavery legislation in Parliament. Parliament passed the 1885 Criminal Law Amendment Act, raising the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen in that year.\n\nA subsequent scare occurred in the United States in the early twentieth century, peaking in 1910, when Chicago's U.S. attorney announced (without giving details) that an international crime ring was abducting young girls in Europe, importing them, and forcing them to work in Chicago brothels. These claims, and the panic they inflamed, led to the passage of the United States White-Slave Traffic Act of 1910, generally known as the \"Mann Act\". It also banned the interstate transport of females for immoral purposes. Its primary intent was to address prostitution and immorality.\n\nImmigration inspectors at Ellis Island in New York City were held responsible for questioning and screening European prostitutes from the U.S. Immigration inspectors expressed frustration at the ineffectiveness of questioning in determining if a European woman was a prostitute, and claimed that many were \"lying\" and \"framing skillful responses\" to their questions. They were also accused of negligence should they accept a fictitious address from an immigrant or accept less-than-complete responses. Inspector Helen Bullis investigated several homes of assignment in the Tenderloin district of New York, and found brothels existed in the early 20th century in New York City. She compiled a list of houses of prostitutes, their proprietors, and their \"inmates\". The New York inspection director wrote a report in 1907, defending against accusations of negligence, saying there was no sense to the public \"panic\", and he was doing everything he could to screen European immigrants for prostitution, especially unmarried ones. In a report by the Commissioner General of Immigration in 1914, the Commissioner said that many prostitutes would intentionally marry American men to secure citizenship. He said that for prostitutes, it was \"no difficult task to secure a disreputable citizen who will marry a prostitute\" from Europe.\n\nAs early as the 1490s, Christopher Columbus established trade in sex slaves on Hispaniola which included sex slaves as young as nine years old. Within 25 years of being colonized, the population of Hispaniola natives declined, dying from enslavement, massacre or disease. \n\nFrom the beginning of African slavery in the North American colonies, white men took enslaved African women as concubines or occasional mistresses. As populations increased, slave women might be taken advantage of by white overseers, planter's younger sons before they married, and other white men associated with the slaveholders. Some were sold into brothels outright.\n\n\"Plaçage\", a formalized system of concubinage among slave women or free people of color, developed in Louisiana and particularly New Orleans by the 18th century. Young mixed-race women (considered highly desirable) would receive a dowry or property as part of an associated settlement negotiated by their mothers with white men. The fathers would often pay for education of their mixed-race children born of these unions, especially sons, who might be educated in France and enter the army. In recent years, at least three historians (\"viz.\" Kenneth Aslakson, Emily Clark, and Carol Schlueter) have challenged the historicity of quadroon balls and have referred to the institution of Plaçage as \"a myth\".\n\nBut Paul Heinegg's research showed that most mixed-race, free black families in the censuses of 1790–1810 were descended from unions between free white women and African men, whether free, indentured servant or slave, that took place in colonial Virginia. It had half the slaves in the colonies at the time of the Revolution. In the early colonial years, the working class of indentured servants and slaves often worked and lived together.\n\nFrom the 17th century, Virginia and other colonies passed laws determining the social status of children born in the colonies. Under English common law in England, children of two English subjects took the status of the father. But Africans were never considered English subjects. To settle the issue of the status of children born in the colony, Virginia passed a law in 1662 that ruled that children would take the status of their mother at birth, under the Roman legal principle known as \"partus sequitur ventrem.\" Thus all children born to enslaved mothers were legally slaves, regardless of the paternity or ancestry of their fathers. They were bound for life and could be sold like any slave unless formally freed.\n\nThe term \"white slaves\" was sometimes used for those mixed-race or mulatto slaves who had a visibly high proportion of European ancestry. Among the most notable at the turn of the 19th century was Sally Hemings, who was 3/4 white and believed by historians to be a half sister of Martha Wayles Skelton Jefferson by their common father John Wayles. Hemings is known for having four surviving children from her decades-long concubinage with President Thomas Jefferson; they were 7/8 European by ancestry. Three of these mixed-race children passed easily into white society as adults (Jefferson freed them all – two informally and two in his will). Three of his Hemings grandsons served as white men in the Union Regular Army in the American Civil War; John Wayles Jefferson advanced to the rank of colonel.\n\nNot all white fathers abandoned their slave children; some provided them with education, apprenticeships, or capital; some wealthy planters sent their mixed-race children to the North for education and sometimes for freedom. Some men freed both their slave mistresses and their mixed-race children, especially in the 20 years after the American Revolution, but southern legislatures made such manumissions more difficult. Both Mary Chesnut and Fanny Kemble wrote in the 19th century about the scandal of white men having their mistresses and natural mixed-race children as part of their extended households. Numerous mixed-race families were begun before the Civil War, and many originated in the Upper South.\n\nAfter slaves were emancipated, many states passed anti-miscegenation laws, which prohibited interracial marriage between whites and non-whites. But this did not stop white men from taking sexual advantage of black women by using their social positions of power under the Jim Crow system and white supremacy, or in other parts of the country by ordinary power and wealth dynamics. For instance, in the 20th century future politician Strom Thurmond at age 21 had a sexual relationship with a 16-year-old maid in his parents' household and she became pregnant. He did provide support for their daughter. The girl was officially raised by her maternal aunt and uncle, not learning about her biological parents until she was in her late teens. She met Thurmond, but said nothing publicly about her status as his daughter until after Thurmond's death. With his family's agreement, her name has been added as one of his children on his memorial.\n\nZora Neale Hurston wrote about contemporary sexual practices in her anthropological studies in the 1930s of the turpentine camps of North Florida. She noted that white men with power often forced black women into sexual relationships.\n\nAlthough she never named the practice as \"paramour rights,\" author C. Arthur Ellis ascribed this term to the fictionalized Hurston in his book, \"Zora Hurston and the Strange Case of Ruby McCollum.\" The same character asserted that the death knell of paramour rights was sounded by the trial of Ruby McCollum, a black woman who murdered Dr. C. Leroy Adams, in Live Oak, Florida, in 1952. She said he had forced her into sex and bearing his child. Journalist Hurston covered McCollum's trial in 1952 for the \"Pittsburgh Courier\". McCollum's case was further explored in the 2015 documentary .\n\nThe Chinese Tanka females were sold from Guangzhou to work as prostitutes for the overseas Chinese male community in the United States. During the California Gold Rush in the late 1840s, Chinese merchants transported thousands of young Chinese girls, including babies, from China to the United States. They sold the girls into sexual slavery within the red light district of San Francisco. Girls could be bought for $40 (about $1104 in 2013 dollars) in Guangzhou and sold for $400 (about $11,040 in 2013 dollars) in the United States. Many of these girls were forced into opium addiction and lived their entire lives as prostitutes.\n\nDuring World War II, Germany established brothels in Nazi concentration camps (Lagerbordell). The women forced to work in these brothels came from the Ravensbrück concentration camp, Soldier's brothels (Wehrmachtsbordell) were usually organized in already established brothels or in hotels confiscated by the Germans. The leaders of the Wehrmacht became interested in running their own brothels when sexual disease spread among the soldiers. In the controlled brothels, the women were checked frequently to avoid and treat sexually transmittable infections (STI).\n\nIt is estimated that a minimum of 34,140 women from occupied states were forced to work as prostitutes during the Third Reich. In occupied Europe, the local women were often forced into prostitution. On 3 May 1941 the Foreign Ministry of the Polish government-in-exile issued a document describing the mass Nazi raids made in Polish cities with the goal of capturing young women, who later were forced to work in brothels used by German soldiers and officers. Women often tried to escape from such facilities, with at least one mass escape known to have been attempted by women in Norway.\n\n\"Comfort women\" are a widely publicised example of sexual slavery. The term refers to the women, from occupied countries, who were forced to serve as sex slaves in the Japanese army's camps during World War II. Estimates vary as to how many women were involved, with numbers ranging from as low as 20,000 from some Japanese scholars to as high as 410,000 from some Chinese scholars. The numbers are still being researched and debated. The majority of women were taken from Korea, China, and other occupied territories part of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. They were often recruited by kidnapping or deception to serve as sex slaves. Sometimes women were raped to the point of death, or killed by torture, such as having their breasts sliced off or having their abdomens slit open. Each slave was reportedly raped \"an average of 10 rapes per day (considered by some to be a low estimate), for a five-day work week; this figure can be extrapolated to estimate that each 'comfort girl' was raped around 50 times per week or 2,500 times per year. For three years of service – the average – a comfort girl would have been raped 7,500 times.\" (Parker, 1995 United Nations Commissions on Human Rights)\n\nChuo University professor Yoshiaki Yoshimi states there were about 2,000 centers where as many as 200,000 Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Filipino, Taiwanese, Burmese, Indonesian, Dutch and Australian women were interned and used as sex slaves.\n\nThe (RAA) was the largest of the organizations established by the Japanese government to provide organized prostitution and other leisure facilities for occupying Allied troops immediately following World War II.\n\nThe RAA established its first brothel on 28 August: the Komachien in Ōmori. By December 1945, the RAA owned 34 facilities, 16 of which were \"comfort stations\". The total number of prostitutes employed by the RAA amounted to 55,000 at its peak.\n\nThe dispersal of prostitution made it harder for GHQ to control STIs and also caused an increase in rapes by GIs, from an average of 40 a day before the SCAP order to an estimated 330 per day immediately after.\n\nDuring the Korean War, the South Korean military institutionalized a \"special comfort unit\" similar to the one used by the Japanese military during World War II, kidnapping and pressing several North Korean women into sexual slavery. Until recently, very little was known about this apart from testimonies of retired generals and soldiers who had fought in the war. In February 2002, Korean sociologist Kim Kwi-ok wrote the first scholarly work on Korea's comfort women through official records.\n\nThe South Korean \"comfort\" system was organized around three operations. First, there were \"special comfort units\" called T'uksu Wiandae (특수위안대, 特殊慰安隊), which operated from seven different stations. Second, there were mobile units of comfort women that visited barracks. Third, there were prostitutes who worked in private brothels that were hired by the military. Although it is still not clear how recruitment of these comfort women were organized in the South, South Korean agents were known to have kidnapped some of the women from the North.\n\nAccording to anthropologist Chunghee Sarah Soh, the South Korean military's use of comfort women has produced \"virtually no societal response,\" despite the country's women's movement's support for Korean comfort women within the Japanese military. Both Kim and Soh argue that this system is a legacy of Japanese colonialism, as many of Korea's army leadership were trained by the Japanese military. Both the Korean and Japanese militaries referred to these comfort women as \"military supplies\" in official documents and personal memoirs. The South Korean armed forces also used the same arguments as the Japanese military to justify the use of comfort women, viewing them as a \"necessary social evil\" that would raise soldiers' morale and prevent rape.\n\nOfficial estimates of individuals in sexual slavery worldwide vary. In 2001 the International Organization for Migration estimated 400,000, the Federal Bureau of Investigation estimated 700,000 and UNICEF estimated 1.75 million.\n\nIn Africa the colonial powers abolished slavery in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. However, in areas outside their jurisdiction, such as the Mahdist empire in Sudan, the practice continued to thrive. Institutional slavery has been banned worldwide, but there are numerous reports of women sex slaves in areas without effective government control, such as Sudan, Liberia, Sierra Leone, northern Uganda, Congo, Niger and Mauritania. In Ghana, Togo and Benin, a form of religious prostitution known as \"trokosi\" (\"ritual servitude\") forcibly keeps thousands of girls and women in traditional shrines as \"wives of the gods\", where priests perform the sexual function in place of the gods.\n\nIn April 2014, Boko Haram kidnapped 276 female students from Chibok, Borno, a state of Nigeria. More than 50 of them soon escaped, but the remainder have not been released. Instead Shekau, who has a reward of $7 million offered by the United States Department of State since June 2013 for information leading to his capture, announced his intention of selling them into slavery.\n\nThe \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported in 2006 that in the 21st century, women, mostly from South America, Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, are trafficked into the United States for the purposes of sexual slavery. A 2006 ABC News story stated that, contrary to existing misconceptions, American citizens may also be coerced into sex slavery.\n\nIn 2001 the United States State Department estimated that 50,000 to 100,000 women and girls are trafficked each year into the United States. In 2003, the State Department report estimated that a total of 18,000 to 20,000 individuals were trafficked into the United States for either forced labor or sexual exploitation. The June 2004 report estimated the total trafficked annually at between 14,500 and 17,500. The Bush administration set up 42 Justice Department task forces and spent more than $150 million on attempts to reduce human trafficking. However, in the seven years since the law was passed, the administration has identified only 1,362 victims of human trafficking brought into the United States since 2000, nowhere near the 50,000 or more per year the government had estimated.\n\nThe Girl’s Education & Mentoring Services (GEMS), an organization based in New York, claims that the majority of girls in the sex trade were abused as children. Poverty and a lack of education play major roles in the lives of many women in the sex industry.\n\nAccording to a report conducted by the University of Pennsylvania, anywhere from 100,000 up to 300,000 American children at any given time may be at risk of exploitation due to factors such as drug use, homelessness, or other factors connected with increased risk for commercial sexual exploitation. However, the report emphasized, \"The numbers presented in these exhibits do not, therefore, reflect the actual number of cases of CSEC in the United States but, rather, what we estimate to be the number of children ‘at risk’ of commercial sexual exploitation.\"\n\nThe 2010 Trafficking in Persons report described the United States as, \"a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced labor, debt bondage, and forced prostitution.\" Sexual slavery in the United States may occur in multiple forms and in multiple venues. Sex trafficking in the United States may be present in Asian massage parlors, Mexican cantina bars, residential brothels, or street-based pimp-controlled prostitution. The anti-trafficking community in the United States is debating the extent of sexual slavery. Some groups argue that exploitation is inherent in the act of commercial sex, while other groups take a stricter approach to defining sexual slavery, considering an element of force, fraud or coercion to be necessary for sex slavery to exist.\n\nThe prostitutes in illegal massage parlors may be forced to work out of apartment complexes for many hours a day. Many clients may not realize that some of the women who work in these massage sex parlors have actually been forced into prostitution. The women may initially be lured into the US under false pretenses. In huge debt to their 'owners', they are forced to earn enough to eventually \"buy\" their freedom. In some cases women who have been sex trafficked may be forced to undergo plastic surgery or abortions. A chapter in \"The Slave Next Door\" (2009) reports that human trafficking and sexual enslavement are not limited to any specific location or social class. It concludes that individuals in society need to be alert to report suspicious behavior, because the psychological and physical abuse occurs which can often leave a victim unable to escape on their own.\n\nIn 2000 Congress created the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act with tougher punishments for sex traffickers. It provides for the possibility for former sex slaves to obtain a T-1 visa. To obtain the visa women must, \"prove they were enslaved by 'force, fraud or coercion'.\" The visa allows former victims of sex trafficking to stay in the United States for 3 years and then apply for a green card.\n\nThe Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) has been suspected of trafficking underage women across state lines, as well as across the US–Canada and US–Mexico borders, for the purpose of sometimes involuntary plural marriage and sexual abuse. The FLDS is suspected by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police of having trafficked more than 30 under-age girls from Canada to the United States between the late 1990s and 2006 to be entered into polygamous marriages. RCMP spokesman Dan Moskaluk said of the FLDS's activities: \"In essence, it's human trafficking in connection with illicit sexual activity.\" According to the \"Vancouver Sun,\" it's unclear whether or not Canada's anti-human trafficking statute can be effectively applied against the FLDS's pre-2005 activities, because the statute may not be able to be applied retroactively. An earlier three-year-long investigation by local authorities in British Columbia into allegations of sexual abuse, human trafficking, and forced marriages by the FLDS resulted in no charges, but did result in legislative change. Former FLDS members have also alleged that children belonging to the sect were forced to perform sexual acts as children upon older men while being unable to leave. This has been described by numerous former members as sexual slavery, and was reported as such by the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", One former resident of Yearning for Zion, Kathleen Mackert, stated: \"I was required to perform oral sex on my father when I was seven, and it escalated from there.\"\n\nThe Trafficking in Persons Report of 2007 from the US Department of State says that sexual slavery exists in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf, where women and children may be trafficked from the post-Soviet states, Eastern Europe, Far East, Africa, South Asia or other parts of the Middle East.\n\nAccording to media reports from late 2014 the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) was selling Yazidis and Christian women as slaves. According to Haleh Esfandiari of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, after ISIL militants have captured an area \"[t]hey usually take the older women to a makeshift slave market and try to sell them.\" In mid-October 2014 the U.N. estimated that 5,000 to 7,000 Yazidi women and children were abducted by ISIL and sold into slavery.\n\nIn the digital magazine \"Dabiq\", ISIL claimed religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women whom they consider to be from a heretical sect. ISIL claimed that the Yazidi are idol worshipers and their enslavement part of the old shariah practice of spoils of war. ISIL appealed to apocalyptic beliefs and \"claimed justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of slavery as a precursor to the end of the world.\" In late September 2014, 126 Islamic scholars from around the Muslim world signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, rejecting his group's interpretations of the Qur'an and hadith to justify its actions. The letter accuses the group of instigating fitna—sedition—by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community. In late 2014 ISIL released a pamphlet on the treatment of female slaves. In January 2015, further rules for sex slaves were announced.\n\nSelling women and children still occurs in the Middle East. \"IS [Islamic State] offers women and underage children in a kind of virtual slave market with for-sale photos. ... The transfer of money, as the reporter discovered, takes place through a liaison office in Turkey\". Yazidi women have also reported being raped and used as sexual slave by members of ISIS. In November 2015 it was reported that \"around 2,000 women and girls are still being bought and sold in ISIS-controlled areas. The young become sex slaves and older women are beaten and used as house slaves, according to survivors and accounts from ISIS militants\".\n\nIn 2007, the Ministry of Women and Child Development estimated that there are around 2.8 million sex workers in India, with 35 percent of them entering the trade before the age of 18 years. The number of prostitutes has also doubled in the recent decade. One news article states that an estimated 200,000 Nepalese girls have been trafficked to red light areas of India. Nepalese women and girls, especially virgins, are reportedly favoured in India because of their fair skin and young looks. One report estimates that every year between 5,000 and 7,000 Nepalese girls are trafficked into the red-light districts in Indian cities, and that many of the girls may only be 9 or 10 years old.\n\nIn Pakistan, young girls have been sold by their families to big-city brothel owners. Often this happens due to poverty or debt, whereby the family has no other way to raise the money than to sell the young girl. Cases have also been reported where wives and sisters have been sold to brothels to raise money for gambling, drinking or drug addictions. Sex slaves are reportedly also bought by 'agents' in Afghanistan who trick young girls into coming to Pakistan for well-paying jobs. Once in Pakistan they are taken to brothels (called \"kharabat\") and forced into sexual slavery, some for many years. Beardless young boys in Afghanistan may be sold as bacha bazi for use in dancing and prostitution (pederasty), and are sometimes valued in tens of thousands of dollars.\n\nIn January 2010, the Supreme Court of India stated that India is \"becoming a hub\" for large-scale child prostitution rackets. It suggested setting up of a special investigating agency to tackle the growing problem.\n\nAn article about the Rescue Foundation in \"New Internationalist\" magazine states that \"according to Save the Children India, clients now prefer 10- to 12-year-old girls\". The same article attributes the rising number of prostitutes believed to have contracted HIV in India’s brothels as a factor in India becoming the country with the second-largest number of people living with HIV/AIDS in the world, behind South Africa.\n\nIn Thailand, the Health System Research Institute reported in 2005 that children in prostitution make up 40% of Thailand's prostitutes. It said that a proportion of prostitutes over the age of 18, including foreign nationals mostly from Myanmar, China's Yunnan province, Laos and Cambodia, are also in some state of forced sexual servitude.In 1996, the police in Bangkok estimated that there were at least 5,000 Russian prostitutes working in Thailand, many of whom had arrived through networks controlled by Russian gangs. The Tourism Police Bureau in 1997 stated that there were 500 Chinese and 200 European women in prostitution in Bangkok, many of whom entered Thailand illegally, often through Burma and Laos. Earlier reports, however, suggest different figures. (Police Colonel Sanit Meephan, deputy chief of Tourism Police Bureau, \"Thailand popular haunt for foreign prostitutes\", \"The Nation\", 15 January 1997)\n\nPart of the challenge in quantifying and eliminating sexual slavery in Thailand and Asia generally is the high rate of police corruption in the region. There are documented cases where Thai and other area law enforcement officials worked with human traffickers, even to the extent of returning escaped child sex slaves to brothels.\n\nEthnic Rohingya women are kidnapped by Myanmar military and used as sex slave Many Rohingya women were detained at a human trafficking syndicate transit camp in Padang Besar, Thailand, were treated like sex slaves.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the Bureau of the Dutch Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings in 2005 estimated that there are from 1,000 to 7,000 trafficking victims a year. Most police investigations relate to legal sex businesses, with all sectors of prostitution being well represented, but with window brothels being particularly overrepresented. Dutch news site Expatica reported that in 2008, there were 809 registered trafficking victims in the Netherlands; out of those 763 were women and at least 60 percent of them were reportedly forced to work in the sex industry. Of reported victims, those from Hungary were all female and all forced into prostitution.\n\nIn Germany, the trafficking of women from Eastern Europe is often organized by people from that same region. German authorities identified 676 sex-trafficking victims in 2008, compared with 689 in 2007. The German Federal Police Office BKA reported in 2006 a total of 357 completed investigations of human trafficking, with 775 victims. Thirty-five percent of the suspects were Germans born in Germany and 8% were German citizens born outside Germany.\n\nIn Greece, according to NGO estimates in 2008, there may be a total 13,000–14,000 trafficking victims of all types in the country at any given time. Major countries of origin for trafficking victims brought into Greece include Nigeria, Ukraine, Russia, Bulgaria, Albania, Moldova, Romania and Belarus.\n\nIn Switzerland, the police estimated in 2006 that there may be between 1,500 and 3,000 victims of all types of human trafficking. The organizers and their victims generally come from Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova, Lithuania, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Thailand and Cambodia, and, to a lesser extent, Africa.\n\nIn Belgium, in 2007, prosecutors handled a total of 418 trafficking cases, including 219 economic exploitation and 168 sexual exploitation cases. In the same year, the federal judicial police handled 196 trafficking files, compared with 184 in 2006. In 2007 the police arrested 342 persons for smuggling and trafficking-related crimes. A recent report by RiskMonitor foundation estimated that 70% of the prostitutes who work in Belgium are from Bulgaria.\n\nIn Austria, Vienna has the largest number of reported trafficking cases, although trafficking is also a problem in urban centers such as Graz, Linz, Salzburg, and Innsbruck. The NGO Lateinamerikanische Frauen in Oesterreich–Interventionsstelle fuer Betroffene des Frauenhandels (LEFOE-IBF) reported assisting 108 victims of all types of human trafficking in 2006, down from 151 in 2005.\n\nIn Spain, in 2007, officials identified 1,035 sex trafficking victims and 445 labor trafficking victims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46502068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46502068", "title": "Stephanie Hannon", "text": "Stephanie Hannon\n\nStephanie Hannon (born October 31, 1974) was the chief technology officer (CTO) of Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. She was the first woman to hold the title of CTO on a major presidential campaign. Prior to working for the Clinton campaign, Hannon was Google's director of product management for civic innovation and social impact. Her focus was on building tools to help communities respond to natural disasters as well as producing and sharing transparent election results. She worked previously as a product manager on Google Maps and Google Wave.\n\nHannon was born in Washington, DC, and grew up in Reston, Virginia. She went to Virginia's chartered Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology. She earned a bachelor's degree in computer systems engineering and a master's degree in electrical engineering at Stanford University as well as a master of business administration degree at Harvard Business School.\n\nAt the time of Hannon's hiring as campaign CTO, much commentary was made on the significance of a woman holding this position for the first time. The appointment was described as \"helping open the door for other women in an industry that has long been a boys club.\" The theme of transcending traditional gender roles was recently the subject of a speech by Clinton to a Silicon Valley audience, stating her intent to \"crack every last glass ceiling\".\n"}
{"id": "33445368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33445368", "title": "Sumar, Iran", "text": "Sumar, Iran\n\nSumar (; also Romanized as Sūmār, Soormar, and Sowmār) is a city and capital of Sumar District, in Qasr-e Shirin County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 20, in 15 families, making it Iran's least populous settlement with city status. Virtually the entire population of Sumar was killed by an Iraqi chemical attack, and the city was destroyed during the Iran-Iraq War. It has not been rebuilt.\n\n"}
{"id": "35486104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35486104", "title": "Taurian Games", "text": "Taurian Games\n\nThe Taurian Games (Latin Ludi Taurii or Ludi Taurei, rarely Taurilia) were games \"(ludi)\" held in ancient Rome in honor of the \"di inferi\", the gods of the underworld. They were not part of a regularly scheduled religious festival on the calendar, but were held as expiatory rites \"religionis causa\", occasioned by religious concerns.\n\n\"Ludi Taurii\" are recorded in 186 BC as a two-day event. Varro mentions them as occurring in the late Republic. During the reign of Antoninus Pius, they were held every five years from 140 to 160 AD, within a period beginning on the day after the Ides of May and continuing through the Kalends of June. Some scholars extrapolate that like the \"lustrum\" (purification ritual), the \"Ludi Taurii\" were regularly quinquennial. Others caution that the five-year schedule under Antoninus Pius, attested by the \"Fasti Ostienses\", is never mentioned in other sources. The limited evidence suggests the \"Ludi Taurii\" were important mainly in the context of religious revivalism during the Augustan and Antonine eras.\n\nThe Taurian Games were horse races, or less likely chariot races, on a course around turning posts \"(metae)\". In the 19th century, they were sometimes confused with the archaic Tarentine Games \"(ludi tarentini)\", which were replaced by the Saecular Games. Horse racing along with the propitiation of underworld gods was characteristic of \"old and obscure\" Roman festivals such as the Consualia, the October Horse, and sites in the Campus Martius such as the Tarentum (where the \"ludi tarentini\" originated) and the Trigarium. The \"Ludi Taurii\" were the only games held in the Circus Flaminius.\n\nIf the games are Etruscan in origin, as Festus and Servius claim, \"taurii\" probably comes from the Etruscan word \"tauru\", \"tomb.\" The design of the turning posts \"(metae)\" on a Roman race course was derived from Etruscan funerary monuments. Festus, however, offers an etiology based on Latin \"taurus\", \"bull.\"\n\nIn the tradition recorded by Festus, the games were instituted in the Regal period when Tarquinius Superbus was king. Servius also places their origin during his reign.\n\nFetus explains that the games were performed in honor of the gods below \"(di inferi)\". They were established in response to an epidemic \"(magna … pestilentia)\" afflicting pregnant women, caused by the distribution of the flesh of sacrificial bulls \"(tauri)\" among the people. Servius implies that the \"pestilentia\" was infant mortality: \"each delivery of the women came out badly.\" The remedy of the games was obtained \"ex libris fatalibus\", \"from the books of the fates\" (either the Sibylline books or Etruscan texts). According to Servius, the \"ludi\" took their name from the word \"taurea\", meaning a sterile sacrificial victim \"(hostia)\".\n\nServius gives an alternative version that credits the Sabines with instituting the games in response to the \"pestilentia\", and characterizes the transferral of the \"lues publica\" (the plague upon the people) onto sacrificial victims \"(hostiae)\" as if it were a scapegoat ritual.\n\nFestus also provided an additional explanation of the name as \"taurus\" (\"bull\") from Varro, preserved only in fragmentary form by the \"Codex Farnesianus\". A reconstruction dating back to J.J. Scaliger has been taken to mean that youths, under the direction of a coach, engaged in ritual gymnastics on a raw bull's hide, perhaps to be compared to exercises on a trampoline. This view has not attracted wide acceptance, but would suggest that the ritual action countervails infant mortality by affirming the fitness of the youth. Ritually, landing on the bull's skin may mimic the \"catching\" of a safely delivered newborn.\n\nThe Augustan historian Livy has a brief reference to the games as occurring in 186 BC \"per biduum\", for a period of two days, \"religionis causa\", \"for the sake of religious scruple.\" On this occasion, the two-day \"Ludi Taurii\" preceded ten days of \"ludi\" presented by Marcus Fulvius Nobilior as the result of a vow in the Aetolian War. Nobilior's games are notable as the first time a beast hunt \"(venatio)\" was staged at Rome. At a corrupt transition between the two events in Livy's text, the word \"decem\" (\"ten\") appears, which Georg Wissowa construed as referring to the ten-member priestly college of \"decemviri sacris faciundis\"; he thought these priests were likely charged with organizing the Taurian Games.\n\nEarlier scholars have sometimes taken the adjective \"taurii\" to mean that bulls were part of the games, either in a Mediterranean tradition of bull-leaping, or as an early form of bullfighting. Because Livy's chronology places the \"Ludi Taurii\" (or in some editions \"Taurilia\") immediately after the news of a victory in Roman Spain, the games have figured in a few efforts to trace the early history of Spanish-style bullfighting.\n"}
{"id": "8250527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8250527", "title": "Teatro La Perla", "text": "Teatro La Perla\n\nTeatro La Perla is a historic theater in the city of Ponce, Puerto Rico. Inaugurated in 1864, it is the second oldest theater of its kind in Puerto Rico, but \"the largest and most historic in the Spanish-speaking Caribbean.\" The theater was named \"La Perla\" in honor of the Virgin of Montserrat (Spanish: \"La Virgen de Montserrat\"), known as \"The Pearl of the Mediterranean.\" It is located in barrio Tercero, in the Ponce Historic Zone.\n\nThe theater was designed in the 1860s by Juan Bertoli Calderoni (a Ponceño of Italian heritage resident of the city) and it bears a neoclassical structure with an impressive six-column entrance. The building was badly damaged by the 1918 earthquake. However, it was rebuilt in 1940 using the original plans and reopened in 1941 with better acoustics technology. It closed in 2006 for renovations and reopened on March 14, 2008.\n\nTeatro La Perla was built under the initiative of Francisco Parra Duperón and Pedro Garriga in May 1864. It was inaugurated on 28 May 1864 with the play \"La campana de la Almudaina\" of the Majorcan writer Juan Palou y Coll by the theatrical company of Segarra & Argente.\n\nTeatro La Perla served as a stage not only to give life to the theatrical artistic culture in the region, but it also served as a place of assembly for those who were dedicated to the social issues in Ponce and in Puerto Rico as a whole. It served this function both at the end of the Spanish regime and in Puerto Rico’s early years as a United States territory.\n\nIn this theater, in 1901, Frenchman Eduardo Hervet showed the first silent film ever to be run in Puerto Rico. The theater's first illumination technical director was Félix Juan Torres Ortiz. \n\nIt was reconditioned between 1977 and 1979 at a cost of over $500,000. \n\nThe theatre has a seating capacity of 1,047 and it is now a regular venue for concerts, opera, plays, and various civic and educational activities such as school graduations. The lobby of the theater has a small museum dedicated to the history of the building and past shows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17554858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17554858", "title": "The Budapest Times", "text": "The Budapest Times\n\nThe Budapest Times is an English language newspaper reporting on events in Hungary. The paper is published weekly and is owned by Budapest-Zeitung Kft. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16946708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16946708", "title": "The Dreams of Tipu Sultan", "text": "The Dreams of Tipu Sultan\n\nTipu Sultan Kanda Kanasu (English: The Dreams of Tipu Sultan) is a 1997 Kannada play written by Indian playwright Girish Karnad. The play has been performed many times but different groups around the world but mostly in the subcontinent and mainly in Pakistan and India. The story follows the last days as well as the historic moments in the life of the Ruler of Mysore, Tipu Sultan, through the eyes of an Indian court historian and a British Oriental scholar.\n\nThe figure of Tipu Sultan has continued to dominate Indian and British imagination for over two centuries, as attested by the numerous scholarly works, ballads, plays and novels about his tempestuous life and tragic end. What is less well known, however, is that this man, who spent a large part of his life on horseback, maintained a record of his dreams that he concealed from his nearest associates. \"The Dreams of Tipu Sultan\" examines the inner life of this warrior, political visionary, and dreamer.\n\n\n\"The Dreams of Tipu Sultan\" : https://archive.org/stream/dreamsoftipusult00tipprich#page/n0/mode/2up\n"}
{"id": "1350293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1350293", "title": "Vela Incident", "text": "Vela Incident\n\nThe Vela Incident, also known as the South Atlantic Flash, was an unidentified double flash of light detected by an American Vela Hotel satellite on 22 September 1979 near the Prince Edward Islands off Antarctica. Due to the characteristics of the light signal, along with other circumstantial evidence, it has been theorized that the flash was the result of an undeclared nuclear test carried out jointly by South Africa and Israel. Though the origin of the flash was not conclusively determined, and several alternative explanations were proposed, in 2016 researchers from George Washington University's National Security Archive noted that the debate over the origin of the South Atlantic Flash has shifted in recent years to the side of a man-made weapon test. In 2018, a new study claimed that it is highly likely that it was a nuclear test, conducted by Israel.\n\nWhile a double-flash signal is characteristic of a nuclear weapons test in the atmosphere, it has been suggested that the signal could have been caused by a meteoroid impacting the Vela satellite. All of the previous 41 double flashes detected by the Vela satellites were confirmed to be nuclear explosions. Some information about the event remains classified.\n\nThe \"double flash\" was detected on 22 September 1979, at 00:53 UTC, by the American Vela satellite OPS 6911 (also known as Vela 10 and Vela 5B), which carried various sensors designed specifically to detect nuclear explosions that contravened the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. In addition to being able to detect gamma rays, X-rays, and neutrons, the satellite also contained two silicon solid-state bhangmeter sensors that could detect the dual light flashes associated with an atmospheric nuclear explosion: the initial brief, intense flash, followed by a second, longer flash.\n\nThe satellite reported the characteristic double flash of a small atmospheric nuclear explosion of two to three kilotons, in the Indian Ocean between the Crozet Islands (a sparsely inhabited French possession) and the Prince Edward Islands (which belong to South Africa) at .\n\nOther systems data, such as Sound Surveillance System (SOSUS) and Missile Impact Location System (MILS), that were established by the United States and NATO to detect Soviet submarines and the locations where used missile test warheads splashed down, respectively, was searched in an effort to gain more knowledge on the possibility of a nuclear detonation in the region. This data was found not to have enough substantial evidence of a detonation of a nuclear weapon. United States Air Force surveillance aircraft flew 25 sorties over that area of the Indian Ocean from 22 September to 29 October 1979 to carry out atmospheric sampling. Studies of wind patterns confirmed that fall-out from an explosion in the southern Indian Ocean could have been carried from there to southwestern Australia. It was reported that low levels of iodine-131 (a short-half-life product of nuclear fission) were detected in sheep in the southeastern Australian States of Victoria and Tasmania soon after the event. Sheep in New Zealand showed no such trace. The Arecibo ionospheric observatory and radio telescope in Puerto Rico detected an anomalous ionospheric wave during the morning of 22 September 1979, which moved from the southeast to the northwest, an event that had not been observed previously.\nAfter the event was made public, the United States Department of Defense clarified that it was either a bomb blast or a combination of natural phenomena, such as lightning, a meteor, or a glint from the Sun. The initial assessment by the United States National Security Council (NSC), with technical support by the Naval Research Laboratory in October 1979 was that the American intelligence community had \"high confidence\" that the event was a low-yield nuclear explosion, although no radioactive debris had been detected, and there was \"no corroborating seismic or hydro-acoustic data.\" A later NSC report revised this position to \"inconclusive\" about whether or not a nuclear test had occurred. That same report concluded that if a nuclear test had been carried out, responsibility should nevertheless be ascribed to the Republic of South Africa.\n\nThe Carter Administration asked the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to convene a panel of instrumentation experts to re-examine the Vela Hotel 6911 data, and to attempt to determine whether the optical flash detected came from a nuclear test. The outcome was important to Carter, as his presidency and 1980 re-election campaign prominently featured the themes of nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament. The SALT II treaty had been signed three months earlier, and was pending ratification by the United States Senate, and Israel and Egypt had signed the Camp David Accords six months earlier.\n\nAn independent panel of scientific and engineering experts was commissioned by Frank Press, who was the Science Advisor to president Carter and the chairman of the OSTP, to evaluate the evidence and determine the likelihood that the event was a nuclear detonation. The chairman of this science panel itself was Dr. Jack Ruina of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and also the former director of the U.S. Department of Defense's Advanced Research Projects Agency. Reporting in the summer of 1980, the panel noted that there were some key differences in the detected optical signature from that of an actual nuclear explosion, particularly in the ratio of intensities measured by the two detectors on the satellite. The now-declassified report contains details of the measurements made by the Vela Hotel satellite.\n\nThe explosion was picked up by a pair of sensors on only one of the several Vela satellites; other similar satellites were looking at different parts of the Earth, or weather conditions precluded them seeing the same event. The Vela satellites had previously detected 41 atmospheric tests—by countries such as France and the People's Republic of China—each of which was subsequently confirmed by other means, including testing for radioactive fallout. The absence of any such corroboration of a nuclear origin for the Vela Incident also suggested that the \"double flash\" signal was a spurious \"zoo\" signal of unknown origin, possibly caused by the impact of a micrometeoroid. Such \"zoo\" signals which mimicked nuclear explosions had been received several times earlier.\n\nTheir report noted that the flash data contained \"many of the features of signals from previously observed nuclear explosions\", but that \"careful examination reveals a significant deviation in the light signature of the 22 September event that throws doubt on the interpretation as a nuclear event\". The best analysis that they could offer of the data suggested that, if the sensors were properly calibrated, any source of the \"light flashes\" were spurious \"zoo events\". Thus their final determination was that while they could not rule out that this signal was of nuclear origin, \"based on our experience in related scientific assessments, it is our collective judgment that the September 22 signal was probably not from a nuclear explosion\".\n\nVictor Gilinsky (former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) argued that the science panel's findings were politically motivated. There was some data that seemed to confirm that a nuclear explosion was the source for the \"double flash\" signal. There was the \"anomalous\" traveling ionospheric disturbance that was measured at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico at the same time, but many thousands of miles away in a different hemisphere of the Earth. A test in Western Australia conducted a few months later found some increased nuclear radiation levels. A detailed study done by New Zealand's National Radiation Laboratory found no evidence of excess radioactivity, and neither did a U.S. Government-funded nuclear laboratory. Los Alamos National Laboratory scientists who worked on the Vela Hotel program have professed their conviction that the Vela Hotel satellite's detectors worked properly.\n\nLeonard Weiss, at the time Staff Director of the Senate Subcommittee on Energy and Nuclear Proliferation, has also raised concerns about the findings of the Ad-Hoc Panel, arguing that it was set up by the Carter administration to counter embarrassing and growing opinion that it was an Israeli nuclear test. Specific intelligence about the Israeli nuclear program was not shared with the panel whose report therefore produced the plausible deniability that the administration sought.\n\nIf a nuclear explosion did occur, it occurred within the 3,000-mile-wide (4,800 km diameter) circle covering parts of the Indian Ocean, the South Atlantic, the southern tip of Africa, and a small part of Antarctica.\n\nWell before the Vela Incident, American intelligence agencies had made the assessment that Israel probably possessed its own nuclear weapons. According to journalist Seymour Hersh, the detection was the third joint Israeli-South African nuclear test in the Indian Ocean, and the Israelis had sent two IDF ships and \"a contingent of Israeli military men and nuclear experts\" for the test. Author Richard Rhodes also concludes the incident was an Israeli nuclear test, conducted in cooperation with South Africa, and that the United States administration deliberately obscured this fact in order to avoid complicating relations with South Africa. Likewise, Leonard Weiss offers a number of arguments to support the test being Israeli, and claims that successive U.S. administrations continue to cover up the test to divert unwanted attention that may portray its foreign policy in a bad light. In the 2008 book \"The Nuclear Express: A Political History of the Bomb and its Proliferation\" Thomas C. Reed and Danny B. Stillman stated their opinion that the \"double flash\" was the result of a joint South African-Israeli nuclear bomb test. David Albright stated in his article about the \"double flash\" event in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" that \"If the 1979 flash was caused by a test, most experts agree it was probably an Israeli test\".\n\nIn 2010, it was reported that, on 27 February 1980, President Jimmy Carter wrote in his diary, \"We have a growing belief among our scientists that the Israelis did indeed conduct a nuclear test explosion in the ocean near the southern end of Africa.\"\n\nLeonard Weiss, of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University writes: \"The weight of the evidence that the Vela event was an Israeli nuclear test assisted by South Africa appears overwhelming.\"\n\nReed has written that he believes the Vela incident was an Israeli neutron bomb test. The test would have gone undetected as the Israelis specifically chose a window of opportunity when, according to the published data, no active Vela satellites were observing the area. Although the decade-old Vela satellite that detected the blast was officially listed as \"retired\" by the U.S. government, it was still able to receive data. Additionally, the Israelis chose to set off the test during a typhoon. By 1984, according to Mordechai Vanunu, Israel was mass-producing neutron bombs.\n\nThe Republic of South Africa did have a nuclear weapons program at the time, and it falls within that geographic location. Nevertheless, it had acceded to the Partial Test Ban Treaty in 1963, and since the end of apartheid, South Africa has disclosed most of the information on its nuclear weapons programme. According to international inspections and the ensuing International Atomic Energy Agency report, South Africa could not have constructed such a nuclear bomb until November 1979, two months after the \"double flash\" incident. Furthermore, the IAEA reported that all possible South African nuclear bombs had been accounted for. A Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) report dated 21 January 1980, that was produced for the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, concluded that:\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 418 of 4 November 1977 introduced a mandatory arms embargo against South Africa, which also required all states to refrain from \"any co-operation with South Africa in the manufacture and development of nuclear weapons\".\n\nSasha Polakow-Suransky writes that, in 1979, South Africa was not yet advanced enough to test a nuclear device: \"By the first week of October, the State Department had realized that South Africa was probably not the guilty party; Israel was a more likely candidate.\"\n\nIn 1979, the DIA reported that the test might have been a Soviet test done in violation of the 1963 Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. Twenty years earlier in 1959, the USSR had conducted secret underwater tests in the Pacific in violation of the 1958 bilateral moratorium between the Soviet Union and the U.S. (cf. List of nuclear weapons tests of the Soviet Union) before the 1958 moratorium was unilaterally and officially abrogated by the Soviet Union in 1961.\n\nIndia had carried out a nuclear test in 1974 (codenamed \"Smiling Buddha\"). The possibility that India would test a weapon was considered, since it would be possible for the Indian Navy to operate in those waters so far south; however, this was dismissed as impractical and unnecessary (given the fact that India had signed and ratified the Limited Test Ban Treaty or LTBT in 1963, and had complied with it even in its first test, and that India was not hiding its nuclear weapons capability).\n\nAn interagency intelligence memorandum requested by the United States National Security Council and entitled \"The 22 September 1979 Event\" analyzed the possibility of Pakistan wanting to prove its nuclear explosive technology in secret.\n\nSince the \"double flash\", if one existed, could have occurred not very far to the west of the French-owned Kerguelen Islands, it is possible that the French were testing a small neutron bomb or other small tactical nuclear bomb.\n\nSince 1980, some small amounts of new information have emerged. However, most questions remain unanswered.\nA Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory report from 1981 notes: \nIn October 1984, a National Intelligence Estimate on the South African nuclear program noted: A shorter form of this wording was used in a subsequent National Intelligence Council memorandum of September 1985.\nIn February 1994, Commodore Dieter Gerhardt, a convicted Soviet spy and the commander of South Africa's Simon's Town naval base at the time, talked about the incident upon his release from prison. He said: Gerhardt further stated that no South African naval vessels had been involved, and that he had no first-hand knowledge of a nuclear test. In 1993, then President F.W. de Klerk admitted that South Africa had indeed possessed six assembled nuclear weapons, with a seventh in production, but that they had been dismantled (before the first all-race elections of April 1994). There was no mention specifically of the Vela incident or of Israeli cooperation in South Africa's nuclear program.\nOn 20 April 1997, the Israeli daily newspaper \"Haaretz\" quoted the South African deputy foreign minister, Aziz Pahad, as supposedly confirming that the \"double flash\" from over the Indian Ocean was indeed from a South African nuclear test. Haaretz also cited past reports that Israel had purchased 550 tons of uranium from South Africa for its own nuclear plant in Dimona. In exchange, Israel allegedly supplied South Africa with nuclear weapons design information and nuclear materials to increase the power of nuclear warheads. Pahad's statement was confirmed by the United States embassy in Pretoria, South Africa, but Pahad's press secretary stated that Pahad had said only that \"there was a strong rumor that a test had taken place, and that it should be investigated\". In other words, he was merely repeating rumors that had been circulating for years. David Albright, commenting on the stir created by this press report, stated:\nIn October 1999, a white paper that was published by the U.S. Senate Republican Policy Committee in opposition to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty stated: \nIn 2003, Stansfield Turner, the Director of the CIA during the Carter administration, stated that the Vela detection was of a \"man-made phenomenon\".\nIn his 2006 book \"On the Brink\", the retired CIA clandestine service officer Tyler Drumheller wrote of his 1983–88 tour-of-duty in South Africa: \n\nIn 2010, Jimmy Carter published his \"White House Diaries\". In the entry for 22 September 1979, he wrote \"There was indication of a nuclear explosion in the region of South Africa—either South Africa, Israel using a ship at sea, or nothing.\" For 27 February 1980, he wrote \"We have a growing belief among our scientists that the Israelis did indeed conduct a nuclear test explosion in the ocean near the southern end of Africa.\"\n\nSeveral diplomatic cables released as part of the 2010 WikiLeaks cable leaks revealed some of the US state department's initial assessment of the data obtained from the Vela satellite; a cable dated 26 October 1979 states: \nSome American information related to this incident has been declassified in the form of heavily redacted reports and memoranda following requests for records made under the US Freedom of Information Act; on 5 May 2006, many of these declassified documents were made available through the National Security Archive.\nA December 2016 report by William Burr and Avner Cohen of George Washington University's National Security Archive and Nuclear Proliferation International History Project noted that the debate over the South Atlantic flash has shifted over the last few years, on the side of a man-made weapon test. The National Security Archive briefing concluded: \nThe newly released research and subsequent report was largely based upon recently declassified documents in files at the National Archives of Gerard C. Smith, a former Ambassador and special envoy on nuclear nonproliferation during Jimmy Carter's presidency. Smith had once said: \"I was never able to break free from the thought that the event was a joint operation between Israel and South Africa.\" The documents cited a June 1980 U.S. State Department report where Defense Intelligence Agency Vice Director Jack Varona had said the ensuing U.S. investigation was a \"white wash, due to political considerations\" based on \"flimsy evidence.\" He added that the \"weight of the evidence pointed towards a nuclear event\" and cited hydroacoustic data analyzed by the Naval Research Laboratory. The data, he suggested, involved \"signals... unique to nuclear shots in a maritime environment\" and emanating from the area of \"shallow waters between Prince Edward and Marion Islands, south-east of South Africa.\"\n\nIn 2018, a new study confirmed that it is highly likely that it was a nuclear test, conducted by Israel.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9327662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9327662", "title": "Wally Floody", "text": "Wally Floody\n\nFlight Lieutenant Clarke Wallace Chant Floody (April 28, 1918 – September 25, 1989) was an imprisoned Canadian World War II pilot who was instrumental in organizing and implementing the \"Great Escape\" from the German prisoner of war camp Stalag Luft III.\n\nFloody was born in Chatham, Ontario, and attended Northern Vocational School. In 1936 he headed north to work at the Preston East Dome Mines in Timmins, Ontario, as a mucker—shovelling the rock and mud into carts to be hauled up to the surface.\n\nAt the onset of the war, Floody was working on a ranch in Alberta when he decided to return home to enlist in the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF). He financed his trip back east by shovelling coal into the boiler of the locomotive for the entire trip back to Toronto. After learning that the RCAF was not quite ready for the huge influx of personnel, Wally and Betty married on May 24, 1940, and moved to Kirkland Lake, where Wally could go back to work in the mines.\n\nIn 1940, Floody and his wife were back in Toronto visiting family. Anxious to find out what was happening to his enlistment application, Floody checked with the recruiting office only to find his application was at the bottom of the pile. The reason: he was now married. After convincing the recruiting officer that \"My wife backs me in this 100%\", he was advised that the train was leaving for the BCATP air station in Brandon, Manitoba that evening. After a quick goodbye to his family Floody was on his way to becoming an operational pilot and flying with No. 401 Squadron.\n\nOperating from RAF Biggin Hill in England, his Spitfire was shot down on 27 October 1941 over Saint-Omer, France, where he was met by two German soldiers. He was imprisoned at the POW camp Stalag Luft III at Sagan (now Żagań, Poland). There he joined the \"X-Organization\", headed by Roger Bushell (codenamed \"Big-X\"), who put Wally in charge of digging tunnels and their camouflage, for the upcoming escape attempts by Commonwealth and European prisoners.\n\nHowever, in March 1944, the German guards, always suspicious of escapes, caught the telltale sign of sand being dropped by one of the 'penguins' out the bottom of his pant legs and immediately rounded up Wally and 19 others and transferred them to another camp in Belaria.\n\nThe escape of 76 men went ahead on the moonless night of March 24, 1944. Eventually the Germans caught all but three prisoners, and to make an example of them to all the other prisoners, Hitler ordered the execution of 50 of the recaptured Allied officers under the pretext that they were shot while attempting escape. At the end of the war Floody gave evidence about conditions in POW camps at the Nuremberg trials.\n\nOn September 22, 1946, two days after Betty's and Wally's first son Brian was born, they received news that Wally had been made a Member of the Order of the British Empire by King George VI; the citation reading, in part:\n\nReturning to civilian life he became a businessman and co-founder of the Royal Canadian Air Force Prisoners of War Association. He died on September 25, 1989.\n\nIn early 1962, Floody received a phone call from director John Sturges. He told Floody he was planning to make a film based on the book by Paul Brickhill, an Australian flyer and writer who, like Floody, had spent time at Stalag Luft III. After Sturges's assurance that the film was to be as accurate as theatrically possible but true to the efforts of those prisoners and the atmosphere of the camps, Floody agreed to be technical adviser on the 1963 feature film \"The Great Escape\" which was filmed on locations in Germany during the summer of 1962. He is popularly considered the real-life counterpart to that film's fictional \"Tunnel King\", Danny Velinski, played by Charles Bronson.\n\n"}
{"id": "34869281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34869281", "title": "War Memorials Trust", "text": "War Memorials Trust\n\nWar Memorials Trust works for the protection and conservation of war memorials in the UK. The charity provides free information and advice as well as administering grant schemes for the repair and conservation of war memorials.\n\nWar Memorials Trust works with other organisations such as Historic England and Historic Environment Scotland to better safeguard the future of war memorials in both their social and historical context.\n\nThe charity’s four objectives are:\n\n\nWar Memorials Trust was registered as a charity on 7 May 1997. It was originally known as Friends of War Memorials. Sir Donald Thompson, then MP for Calderdale, Winston S Churchill, grandson of the wartime Prime Minister, and Ian Davidson, a former Royal Marine, were amongst those involved in founding the charity. Sir Donald Thompson became the Director-General of the charity and Winston S Churchill the President.\n\nThe Trust’s charity deed outlines the aim \"… to educate the public and to foster patriotism and good citizenship by remembering those who have fallen in war by preserving and maintaining war memorials.\"\n\nAt the end of 2004 the Trustees of the charity decided upon a new name, War Memorials Trust, to replace Friends of War Memorials. The change came into effect in January 2005, along with a change of logo.\n\nWar Memorials Trust has a conservation team who provide free advice about war memorial issues. In 2015-16 the charity dealt with 595 new cases and 911 general enquiries (2014: 609 new cases, 1,041 general enquiries).\n\nCases that the Trust has recently been involved with include:\n\n\nWar Memorials Trust administers grant schemes which between them cover the whole of the UK. These grants are for the repair and conservation of war memorials.\n\nIn 2015-16 War Memorials Trust managed the following Grant Schemes:\n\nProjects funded by the Trust include:\n\nThis partnership Programme, supported by the UK government through the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, is composed of Civic Voice, Historic England, Imperial War Museums and War Memorials Trust. The Programme aims to improve public engagement with their war memorials throughout the centenary of the First World War, as well as to encourage repair and conservation works.\n\nIn Memoriam 2014 is a partnership between War Memorials Trust and the SmartWater Foundation to protect war memorials with metal elements from theft and damage by marking them with a forensic liquid called SmartWater.\n\nCouncils that have taken advantage of the scheme include:\n\nIn November 2010, the Trust launched a campaign to identify a War Memorials Officer (WMO) at each local authority in the UK. A WMO is the main point of contact at that council regarding war memorial issues for the public and the Trust. By the end of 2015-16, 290 War Memorials Officers had been identified.\n\nIn August 2011 War Memorials Trust launched its youth focused learning programme, 'We will always remember.' The aim of this programme is to build a greater understanding of war memorial heritage among young people so that they can continue to protect war memorials in the future as custodians. The learning programme provides National Curriculum linked lesson materials for primary and secondary school teachers, and offers talks or assemblies for schools and youth groups such as Scouts, Cadets and Duke of Edinburgh Award participants.\n\nWar Memorials Trust has a membership consisting of individuals and organisations. On 31 March 2016 the charity had 2,755 members (2014: 2,798).\n\nRegional volunteers undertake a range of activities such as monitoring the condition of local war memorials and reporting those at risk to the Trust, researching and applying for the listing of war memorials and promoting the charity by giving talks and organising events. War Memorials Trust had 188 Regional Volunteers throughout the UK on 31 March 2016 (2014: 181).\n\n\n"}
