{"id": "5061388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5061388", "title": "31 March Incident", "text": "31 March Incident\n\nThe 31 March Incident (, , , or ) was the defeat of the Ottoman countercoup of 1909 by the \"Hareket Ordusu\" (\"Army of Action\"), which was the 11th Salonika Reserve Infantry Division of the Third Army stationed in the Balkans and commanded by Mahmud Shevket Pasha on 24 April 1909. The counter coup began on 31 March on the Rumi calendar, which was the official calendar of the Ottoman Empire, corresponding to 13 April 1909 on the Gregorian calendar now used in Turkey. The rebellion had begun on 13 April 1909 and was put down by 24 April 1909. Ottoman historiography link the two events under the name \"31 March Incident\" but refers to the actions by the Hareket Ordusu, the subsequent restoration of the constitution for a third time (after earlier attempts in 1876 and 1908) and the deposition of Abdul Hamid II who was then replaced by his younger brother Mehmed V.\n\nThe Young Turk Revolution, which began in the Balkan provinces, spread quickly throughout the empire and resulted in the Sultan Abdul Hamid II announcing the restoration of the Ottoman constitution of 1876 on 3 July 1908. The Ottoman general election of 1908 took place during November and December of that year. The Senate of the Ottoman Empire reconvened for the first time in over 30 years on 17 December 1908. The Chamber of Deputies' first session was on 30 January 1909. The Ottoman counter-coup of 13 April 1909 was a rebellion by conservative reactionaries in Constantinople against the restoration of the constitutional system. The counter-coup attempted to put an end to the nascent Second Constitutional Era in order to re-affirm the position of the Sultan Abdul Hamid II as the absolute monarch. The counter-coup, was instigated among some parts of the army primarily by a certain Cypriot Islamic extremist Dervish Vahdeti, who reigned supreme in Constantinople for a few days.\n\nThe CUP appealed to Mahmud Shevket Pasha, commander of the Ottoman Third Army based in Salonika to quell the uprising by Dervish Vahdeti and his supporters. With support from the commander of the Ottoman Second Army in Edirne, Mahmud Shevket combined the armies to create a strike force named \"Hareket Ordusu\" (\"Army of Action\"). The Army of Action numbered 20,000-25,000 Ottoman troops. They were joined by 15,000 volunteers including 4,000 Bulgarians, 2,000 Greeks and 700 Jews. Some Albanians supported the Army of Action. Mahmud Shevket was joined by Çerçiz Topulli and Bajram Curri who brought 8,000 Albanian men and Major Ahmed Niyazi Bey with 1,800 men from Resne for military operations directed by Ali Pasha Kolonja to retake Istanbul. Among other officers who entered the capital was Mustafa Kemal. The Army of Action laid siege to Constantinople on 17 April 1909. \n\nThe Sultan remained in the Yildiz and had frequent conferences with Grand Vizier Tewfik Pasha who announced: Negotiations continued for six days. The negotiators were Rear Admiral Arif Hikmet Pasha, Emanuel Karasu Efendi (Carasso), Esad Pasha Toptani, Aram Efendi and Colonel Galip Bey (Pasiner). Finally, at the moment when the conflict showed signs of extending to the public, the Salonikan troops entered Constantinople.\n\nThe Macedonian troops attacked the Taksim and Tashkishla barracks. There was fierce street fighting in the European quarter where the guard houses were held by the First Army Corps. There was heavy fire from troops in the Tashkishla barracks against the advancing troops. The barracks had to be shelled and almost destroyed by the artillery located on the heights above the barracks before the garrison surrendered after several hours fighting and heavy losses. Equally desperate was the defence of the Taksim barracks. The attack on the Taksim barracks was led by Enver Bey. After a short battle they gained control of the palace on 27 April.\n\nSultan Abdul Hamid was deserted by most of his advisors. The parliament discussed the question as to whether he would be permitted to remain on the throne or be deposed or even be executed. Putting the Sultan to death was considered unwise as such a step might rouse a fanatical response and plunge the Empire into civil war. On the other hand, there were those who felt that after all that had happened it was impossible that the Parliament could ever again work with the Sultan.\n\nOn April 27 the Assembly held a meeting behind closed doors under the presidency of Said Pasha. A fetva drawn up in the form of question and answer and signed by the Sheikh ul Islam was read to the assembled members: Then the Assembly unanimously voted that Abdul Hamid should be deposed.\n\nThe counter-coup's failure brought the Committee of Union and Progress back into power enabling it to form government.\n\nThe incident led to a change of Grand Vizier with Ahmed Tevfik Pasha assumed the position. Other consequences were restoration of constitution for a third time (after earlier attempts in 1876 and 1908). The CUP used the events of the counterrevolution to depose Abdul Hamid II on April 27 in favor of his younger brother Mehmed V. Four CUP members composed of one Armenian, one Jew and two Muslim Albanians went to inform the sultan of his dethronement with Essad Pasha Toptani saying \"the nation has deposed you\". Some Muslims expressed dismay that non Muslims had informed the sultan of his deposition. Abdul Hamid II reserved his anger only toward Toptani calling him a \"wicked man\" whom he felt betrayed him as the Albanian Toptani family had benefited from royal patronage through privileges and positions in the Ottoman system. Albanians involved in the counterrevolutionary movement were executed such as Halil Bey from Krajë which caused indignation among conservative Muslims of Shkodër.\n\nAfter the 31 March Incident, the Committee of Union and Progress outlawed societies which supported ethnic minorities' interests within Ottoman society, including the Society of Arab Ottoman Brotherhood, and prohibited the publication of several journals and newspapers that featured radical Islamic rhetoric.\n\nUnder the multi-religious \"balancing policies\", the Committee of Union and Progress believed it could achieve an \"Ottomanisation\" (i.e. Ottoman nationalism rather than ethnic or religious nationalism) of all the subjects of the Empire. These measures were successful in stirring some nationalist sentiment among the non-Turkish populations, further cementing a national sensibility resistant to conservative Islam.\n\nThe Monument of Liberty () was erected 1911 in Şişli district of Istanbul as a memorial to the 74 soldiers killed in action during this event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3242925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3242925", "title": "Abraham Cohen de Herrera", "text": "Abraham Cohen de Herrera\n\nAbraham Cohen de Herrera (), also known as Alonso Nunez de Herrera or Abraham Irira (c. 1570 – c. 1635), was a religious philosopher and cabbalist. He is supposed by the historian Heinrich Graetz to have been born in 1570. He is widely supposed to have been descended from a Marrano family: place of birth is unknown but may (according to Barbosa Machado the biographer) have been Lisbon, Portugal. Other sources link him to Italy, specifically Tuscany, and as the son of the last Chief Rabbi of Córdoba in Spain.\n\nHe is known to have married a Sara de Herrera in Amsterdam in 1600; however, it is unlikely that this is the wife's original surname. It is also reasonably certain that he had an uncle, Juan de Marchena, who worked as a factor for the Sultan of Morocco Moulay, Ahmad al-Mansur.\n\nWhile in Cadiz on the Sultan's business, Herrera is supposed to have been captured by the English, was released again after an exchange of diplomatic correspondence between the Sultan and Queen Elizabeth I, and travelled thereafter to Amsterdam, where he returned to Judaism. His date of death is between 1635 and 1639: Wiener believes it was 1635. According to Rodriguez de Castro he may have died in Vienna. He wrote several works, originally in Spanish but later (in accordance with his will) translated to Hebrew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26629750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26629750", "title": "Abraham Polonski", "text": "Abraham Polonski\n\nAbraham Polonski (aka \"Pol\" or \"Maurice Ferrer\") was born in Russia in 1913. He was one of the founders of the French Jewish Resistance movement, having previously worked as an electrical engineer in Toulouse.\n\nBy June 1940, the French army had surrendered to Germany. Polonski and others established an underground organization called La Main Forte, meaning \"The Strong Hand\".\n\nBy 1942 Polonski and Labor Movement Zionist activists also established the Armee Juive (AJ), or Jewish Army, which was a commando force composed of the Zionist youth movement members. During 1943–1944, the Jewish Army helped some hundreds of its members to successfully escape to Spain and then Palestine. The group fought in Toulouse, Nice, Lyon, and Paris areas, attacking informers who had collaborated with the Gestapo and helped liberate France in the summer of 1944. \n\nThey were funded to the sum of tens of millions of francs by the Jewish Agency and from the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee.\n\nHe went on to become a Haganah commander of the AJ in France and North Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "3721218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3721218", "title": "Adso of Montier-en-Der", "text": "Adso of Montier-en-Der\n\nAdso of Montier-en-Der () (910/920 – 992) was abbot of the Benedictine monastery of Montier-en-Der in France, and died on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. Biographical information on Adso comes mainly from one single source and has come under question, but the traditional biography depicts him as an abbot who enacted important monastic reform, as a scholar, and as a writer of five hagiographies. His best-known work was a biography of Antichrist, titled \"De ortu et tempore Antichristi\", which combined exegetical and Sibylline lore. This letter became one of the best-known medieval descriptions of Antichrist, copied many times and of great influence on all later apocalyptic tradition, in part because, rather than as an exegesis of apocalyptic texts, he chose to describe Antichrist in the style of a hagiography.\n\nBiographical knowledge of Adso is limited to the comments made by a chronicler from his abbey, who wrote a half century after him; a successor of his under abbot Bruno finished Adso's final hagiography, on Bercharius, and in the process provided us with biographical detail. Supposedly born into a wealthy, noble family near Saint-Claude in the early 900s, he was educated at Luxeuil Abbey and became scholaster at Saint-Epvre near Toul. When his colleague Albéric was called from Saint-Epvre to become abbot at Montier-en-Der Abbey, Adso accompanied him there and was elected abbot on Albéric's death, around 968. When Hilduin II (brother of Manassès († 991), bishop of Troyes, who had committed many acts of violence) turned to him for penance, one of the things he imposed on him was a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. Following the example of Saint Bercharius, the patron saint of Montier-en-Der who had accompanied one of the murderers of Saint Leodegar to Jerusalem, he went with him but died at sea. He was buried on an island called \"Astilia\", possibly identified as Astypalaia. Adso was charged with monastic reforms at St. Benignus' Abbey, Dijon, by Bruno of Roucy, which he enacted between 982 and 985.\n\nAmong his friends was Gerbert, afterwards Pope Sylvester II, and their correspondence indicates how Adso took great care in building a library. His collection was noteworthy: the detailed inventory lists (prepared by his monks after his departure, and preserved in an appendix to a copy of the Martyrology of Usuard) only three complete volumes of theology, and focused heavily on classical literature and commentary thereon.\n\nThe accepted biography, however, was questioned by a number of scholars since the late 20th century, with Daniel Verhelst, the most recent editor of the letter on Antichrist, being the first to doubt what is called the \"long chronology\", followed by Monique Goullet, editor of Adso's hagiographies. Its sourcing was already questionable, with one of the corroborating pieces of evidence a charter that was in fact used by the author of Adso's biographical sketch. This accepted account has Adso lead an extremely long life, going to Jerusalem sometime between age 72 and 82. But if his birth is placed close to 920, to have him on his pilgrimage as young as possible, he could hardly have been a teacher of renown in the 930s at Toul and either way it begs the question of why it took a scholar of such renown over 30 years to gain an abbacy. Another complicating factor is the \"Life of Clotilde\", a hagiography of Clotilde possibly written for Gerberga of Saxony, the recipient of the letter on Antichrist, whose author is argued by a number of scholar to be identical with the author of the letter.\n\nGoullet proposes a somewhat shortened biography, with Adso born in the 930s--which would mean that he would have written the letter possibly as a teenager. Simon Maclean proposes a radically different solution: in a nutshell, he suggests two Adsos (\"Adso\" being a very common name at the time)--the one, of Montier-en-Der, the author of the hagiographies; the other, Adso the abbot of St-Basle Abbey at Verzy (c. 970 – c. 991), whose epitaph was written by Adso of Montier-en-Der. Verzy is near Rheims, one of the most important locations in the sphere of influence of Gerberga, and a center of the monastic reform which she was interested in. This Adso, then, could be the author of the letter and of the \"Life of Clotilde\".\n\nThe largest remaining part of Adso's literary output consists of hagiographies; he wrote the lives of five saints: Mansuetus, Frobert of Troyes, Waldebert, Basolus and Bercharius, and a short \"libellus\" on the translation of and miracles associated with Basolus. He also wrote hymns, and a rendering in verse of the second book of Pope Gregory I's \"Dialogues\" (that second book is essentially a hagiography of St. Benedict), and the famous \"Epistola Adsonis ad Gerbergam reginam de ortu et tempore antichristi\", frequently abbreviated \"De antichristo\", a tract on the life and career of the Antichrist written as a letter to Gerberga of Saxony, the wife of Louis IV d'Outremer.\n\n\"De antichristo\" was not an original work; it combined exegesis of biblical text with Sibylline (that is, oracular) accounts. The most important exegetical text was the commentary on 2 Thessalonians by Haimo of Auxerre, but Adso also used Jerome's \"De Antichristo in Danielem\", and Alcuin's \"De Fide Sanctae et Individuae Trinitatis\". The most important oracular one is the myth of the Last Emperor found in (Latin reworkings of the originally Syriac) \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\", besides the oracles of the Tiburtine Sibyl, though some scholars deny the latter as a source. Adso's true innovation (an argument proposed by Robert Konrad in 1964 and continued by Rihard Kenneth Emmerson in 1979) was the form in which he structured the material: he wrote it not in the form of a theological tract or exegetical commentary, which could have been organized by scriptural source, but rather as a hagiography, as a saint's life. Medieval hagiographies frequently used anti-types to bring out the virtuous characteristics of their protagonists, and Adso's setup of Antichrist as a chronologically organized biography allowed for an easy contrast with the life of Christ, and thus for easy access to a broad audience. The saintly biography is \"a form easily understood and readily recognizable by every Christian\", and his legend is an anti-legend.\n\nThe format did suit the times well, with its love of saintly biography: the biography of Antichrist became a standard entry in many saints' legends, including Jacobus de Voragine's \"Golden Legend\", and it appears very frequently in vernacular legendaries, usually translated from the \"Libellus\" quote closely. In later editions of the letter, the prologue and the epilogue (which named Adso and Gerberga) were frequently cut off (which also makes it resemble a saint's life), and thus the letter was easily attributed to others including Rabanus Maurus, Alcuin, Jerome, and St. Augustine. Emmerson states there are most likely at least 76 versions in Latin between the 10th and 15th centuries. It is quoted by Ignaz von Döllinger among other writings of the medieval conception of Antichrist. It is printed in \"Corpus Christianorum Continuatio Mediaeualis\" vol 45, edited by D. Verhelst (Turnhout, 1976). The letter and Adso's hagiographies are found in Jacques Paul Migne (\"Patrologia Latina\", CXXXVII, 597-700).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2184409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2184409", "title": "Albert Shanker", "text": "Albert Shanker\n\nAlbert Shanker (September 14, 1928 – February 22, 1997) was president of the United Federation of Teachers from 1964 to 1985 and president of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) from 1974 to 1997.\n\nShanker was born on Manhattan’s Lower East Side (New York City) to a Russian Jewish immigrant family. As a toddler, his family moved to Long Island City, in Queens.\n\nHis parents, Mamie and Morris Shanker, were emigrants from Poland. Both were union members; his father was a union newspaper deliveryman, and his mother, who operated a sewing-machine in a knitting factory, was a member of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. The Shanker family's deeply held political views were staunchly pro-union, following the socialism of Norman Thomas and including ardent support of Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal. The experience of watching his mother work 70-hour weeks made Shanker aware from an early age that there was a need for societal changes.\n\nShanker read several newspapers daily as a young boy, with an interest in philosophy. His idols were Franklin D. Roosevelt, Clarence Darrow, civil-rights leader Bayard Rustin, and American philosopher Sydney Hook.\n\nIn 1946, Shanker graduated from Stuyvesant High School, where he was the head of the debate team, and went to the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. He joined the Congress of Racial Equality. Shanker picketed segregated movie theaters and restaurants and was a member of the Young People's Socialist League and chairperson of the Socialist Study Club. In 1949, he graduated with honors and enrolled in Columbia University. In order to earn money while writing his dissertation, Shanker became a substitute teacher at Public School 179 on Manhattan's upper West Side.\n\nShanker took a year off after graduating from college and taught mathematics at an East Harlem school from 1952 to 1959. He began his tenure as a union organizer in 1959 to help organize the Teacher's Guild, a New York City affiliate of the American Federation of Teachers that was founded by John Dewey in 1917. Eventually, the Teacher's Guild merged with New York City's High School Teacher's Association to form the United Federation of Teachers (UFT) in 1960. During the 1960s, Shanker received national attention and considerable criticism for his aggressive union leadership and skillful negotiation of salary increases for New York City teachers. He left his teaching job to become a full-time union organizer. He felt that a teachers' union would be more effective if it were united with a common set of goals. In 1964, Shanker succeeded Charles Cogen as the UFT president, a position he held until 1985. In 1967 and again in 1968, he served jail sentences for leading illegal teachers' strikes. The New York City teacher's strike of 1968 closed down almost all New York City schools for 36 days.\n\nPerhaps Shanker is best known for opposing community-control leaders in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville district of New York City, which led to the 1968 strike after white teachers were dismissed from the school district by the recently appointed black administrator.\n\nFor more than a decade, Shanker wrote more than 1,300 columns in \"The New York Times\" and essays in other publications. Accompanied by a small photograph of Shanker, the \"Times\" columns, titled \"Where We Stand,\" sought to clarify the union's position on matters of public interest.\n\nDespite Shanker's organizing efforts and the 15 days that he spent in jail due to his organization activities, he was branded a racist by critics. Yet he persisted in building the United Federation of Teachers and was elected president of the American Federation of Teachers in 1974. He was re-elected every two years until his death.\n\nIn 1975, the UFT authorized a five-day strike, leading to allegedly saving New York City from bankruptcy after Shanker asked the Teachers' Retirement System to invest $150 million in municipal bonds.\n\nOn September 21, 1981, Shanker had dinner with Leon B. Applewhaite, a personal friend and one of the three members of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA). Applewhaite was involved in deciding whether to uphold the decertification of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization for the strike they had called in August of that year. During the dinner, Shanker urged Applewhaite not to decertify the union, an action which plainly violated the prohibition on the \"ex parte\" contact contained in the federal Administrative Procedure Act. Although the contact was not ultimately found to have legal consequences, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals criticized Shanker's behavior in their review of the FLRA's decision. (See 685 F.2d 547.)\n\nIn 1988, Shanker was the first to propose charter schools in the U.S. He was inspired by a visit to a public school in Cologne, Germany, in which teams of teachers had considerable control over how the school was run, and about what and how to teach. They stayed with each class of students for six years. The schools were integrated by ethnic and economic origins, and were originally intended to focus on the neediest students, drop-outs and those most likely to drop out soon.\n\nIn 1993, Shanker turned against the charter school idea when he realized that for-profit organizations saw it as a business opportunity and were advancing an agenda of school privatization. Indeed, the charter schools that were finally established in the U.S. were different from Shanker's vision. \"On average, charter schools are even more racially and economically segregated than traditional public schools,\" according to an opinion piece in the \"New York Times\" explaining Shanker's views.\n\nOpponents of the Vietnam war have criticized Shanker and other AFL-CIO leaders for supporting the war in Vietnam and other anti-Communist aspects of U.S. foreign policy.\n\nShanker was a visiting professor at Hunter College and Harvard University during the 1980s. He continued to work toward organizing teachers throughout his life and attempted to bridge the AFT with the National Education Association, which he never saw happen. In 1991, U.S. President George H. W. Bush appointed him as a member of the original Competitiveness Policy Council.\n\nShanker died of bladder cancer and was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998 by U.S. President Bill Clinton.\n\n\"Public schools played a big role in holding our nation together. They brought together children of different races, languages, religions, and cultures and gave them a common language and a sense of common purpose. We have not outgrown our need for this; far from it.\" (\"Where We Stand,\" March 3, 1997)\n\n\"There is no more reason to pay for private education than there is to pay for a private swimming pool for those who do not use public facilities.\"\n\n\"It is as much the duty of the union to preserve public education as it is to negotiate a good contract.\"\n\n\"It's dangerous to let a lot of ideas out of the bag, some of which may be bad. But there's something that's more dangerous, and that's not having any new ideas at all at a time when the world is closing in on you.\" (Speech to the AFT QuEST Conference, 1985)\n\nThe quote,\n\n\"When schoolchildren start paying union dues, that’s when I’ll start representing the interests of school children.\"\nis often attributed to Shanker.\n\nThe Albert Shanker Institute attempted to find the source of this quote, and concluded that \"we cannot demonstrate conclusively that Albert Shanker never made this particular statement... but, we believe the quote is fiction.\" The first appearance, which those at the Institute could find, was in the \"Meridian (Mississippi) Star\" newspaper, August 13, 1985, but no source is included in the article.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47154853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47154853", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Smallwood", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Smallwood\n\nBenjamin Franklin Smallwood (1829-December 15, 1891) was Principal Chief of the Choctaw Nation from 1888 to 1890. From 1847 to 1890, Smallwood held public office in Choctaw Nation, except for the time he served as an officer in the Civil War.\n\nHe was born in 1829 in Choctaw Nation to William and Mary (LeFore) Smallwood in Choctaw Nation in Mississippi. When he was a young child, his family moved to Indian Territory on the Choctaw Trail of Tears.\nAs a child, Smallwood attended Spencer Academy in Choctaw Nation.\n\nSmallwood began his political career in 1847, when he served as a ranger in Kiamichi County. Also beginning in 1847, he held the office of representative to the Choctaw Council. In his subsequent career, he served as speaker of the lower house and delegate to Washington, D.C. As delegate to Washington, he was responsible for negotiating agreements between the Choctaw and the United States government.\n\nHe ran for Principal Chief in 1886 as candidate for the National Party but was defeated by Progressive Party candidate Thompson McKinney. In 1888, he was again the National Party's candidate for Principal Chief, this time running against Progressive candidate Wilson Nathaniel Jones. Because of his long career in the house of representatives, he was popular enough to win the election even though the Progressive Party won the majority of seats in both houses of the Choctaw Council. Because the chief and the council represented different parties, Smallwood was able to accomplish little politically during his years in office.\n\nPolitically, Smallwood was very concerned about maintaining the independence of Choctaw Nation and resisting interference from the U.S. Government. He was troubled by the establishment of a federal court in Indian Territory and a law authorizing appeals to the United States authority on matters of Choctaw citizenship after a Choctaw court decision had already been made. He also refused to allow the incorporation of towns established by whites who had moved into Choctaw nation. These towns, which included Krebs and Lehigh lacked official status and public services, including water and sewer systems and fire and police protections.\n\nImportant political meetings of Choctaw legislators, religious leaders, and members of the United States Congress were held at Smallwood's home on his ranch near Lehigh, the Benjamin Franklin Smallwood House. This was because Smallwood would not meet with representatives of the U.S. government unless they came to his house.\n\nIn 1888, the U.S. Government made a payment to Choctaw Nation, and Smallwood called a special session of the Council, which authorized that the funds were to be dispersed without an audit by the Net Proceeds Commission. The payment was for the Leased District, which was originally owned by the Choctaw but had been granted to the United States by treaty in 1855. Smallwood himself pocketed $5,500 of the funds. According to Meserve in the \"Chronicles of Oklahoma\", this \"constitutes one of the dark pages in Choctaw history.\"\n\nHe ran for reelection in 1890 but was defeated by Wilson Nathaniel Jones.\n\nDuring his time in office, Smallwood had advocated for the expansion of Choctaw schools, but due to the divisive political situation, he made little progress. Jones and the new council nonetheless followed his recommendations and added more schools, though Smallwood received no credit.\n\nDuring the United States Civil War, Smallwood was Captain of the 2nd Choctaw Regiment in the Confederate Army.\n\nSmallwood first opened a store in Kiamichi County in 1862. The next year, he moved to Lehigh. Smallwood owned a farm near Lehigh, raised cattle, and ran a dry goods store in town. The sandstone house on his ranch, constructed in 1875, is known as the Benjamin Franklin Smallwood House. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.\n\nAfter being defeated for reelection, Smallwood retired to his home near Lehigh, where he died on December 15, 1891.\n\nIn 1849, Smallwood married Annie Burney, a Chickasaw from the house of Ima-te-po of the family of Okla-pa-nubbii. Annie died during the Civil War. Smallwood later married Abbie James.\n"}
{"id": "5576177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5576177", "title": "Christopher Ricketts", "text": "Christopher Ricketts\n\nChristopher Naldo Ricketts (also \"Topher\" Ricketts; March 21, 1955–October 5, 2010)was a well-known Filipino martial arts innovator, teacher, actor and author. He was also one of the chief founders and head instructors of Bakbakan International and the eldest brother of the action star Ronnie Ricketts. \n\nChristopher Ricketts was a well-known martial artist in the Philippines, Australia, and the United States. \"Topher\", as he was called by his peers, was an experienced tournament (both full-contact and point system) and street fighter. He was known for his strict emphasis on using basics and frequent contact sparring. Topher had trained champions, many of whom have become part of Philippine teams in Asian and international competitions. Apart from being Chief Instructor for Bakbakan, Topher had assisted his brother Ronnie Ricketts, a Philippine action star, in choreographing action scenes in many movies. He also acted in a few of them as supporting roles. Numerous Bakbakan members have played cameo roles in Ronnie's movies, lending credibility to the action sequences as well as drawing crowds to the theatersuse of the authentic fight scenes. \n\nChristopher \"Topher\" Ricketts was born and raised in Manila, Philippines. He married Ma. Elizabeth Mercado and had three sons Bruce Edward, Brandon Max and Christopher Joseph. \"Topher\" and his family relocated and moved to San Diego, California around 2005.\n\nAlong with Rey Galang, Christopher \"Topher\" Ricketts was a founder and a major contributor behind the Bakbakan organization. He gained exposure in 1986 from a project called \"Masters of Arnis\", which also featured Rey Galang, Antonio Diego and Edgar Sulite. They toured Sydney and Melbourne, Australia giving seminars on the Filipino Martial Arts, particularly those taught as the Bakbakan curriculum. This international exposure for Bakbakan triggered several articles in mainstream martial arts magazines. Since then, he had collaborated with Antonio Diego on a book about the art of one of his primary teachers, Antonio \"Tatang\" Ilustrisimo.\n\nHe succumbed to cancer in San Diego, California on October 5, 2010 at the age of 55.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33897250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33897250", "title": "Dial D. Ryder", "text": "Dial D. Ryder\n\nDial Duwayne Ryder (June 12, 1938 – October 20, 2011) was an American gunsmith.\n\nRyder worked at the Irving, Texas Sports Shop and stated that he possessed a record of Lee Harvey Oswald's name. The Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of John F. Kennedy, looked into a report that Oswald had a telescopic sight mounted and sighted at the store in which Ryder was employed. Ryder showed agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, on November 25, 1963, a tag which he claimed was in Oswald's handwriting. The undated tag, with the name \"OSWALD\", attested that three holes had been drilled into an unspecified kind of rifle. Further, a telescopic sight had been mounted on the rifle and boresighted. The customer paid $4.50 for drilling and $1.50 for boresighting the rifle.\n\nNeither Dial or his employer, Charles W. Greener, believed that they had worked on the gun. Dial told author Leo Sauvage the rifle Oswald ordered from Chicago, Illinois came equipped with a telescopic sight. He elaborated, saying that the rifle with the undated tag must have been another weapon than the one Oswald received by mail, in March 1963. Dial stated \"either it was another rifle or another Oswald.\"\n\nRyder believed that a close inspection of the 6.5 mm Mannlicher Carcano owned by Oswald would reveal that neither he or his shop worked on the gun.\n\nRyder was born in Claremont, Illinois. In 1945, Ryder moved with his family to Irving, Texas and graduated from Irving High School. He served in the Texas National Guard and the United States Army.\n\n"}
{"id": "5613578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613578", "title": "Elmer Keith", "text": "Elmer Keith\n\nElmer Merrifield Keith (March 8, 1899 – February 14, 1984) was an Idaho rancher, firearms enthusiast, and author. Keith was instrumental in the development of the first magnum revolver cartridge, the .357 Magnum, as well as the later .44 Magnum and .41 Magnum cartridges, credited by Roy G. Jinks as \"the father of big bore handgunning.\"\n\nKeith's trademarks were his cigars, his Stetson, and his outspoken opinions. Keith was an avid handgun hunter in the earliest days of the sport, and often hunted medium game with a double action Smith & Wesson revolver. In the days when handgun cartridges tended to fire large, slow bullets like the popular .45 Colt, or light, fast bullets like the .30 Mauser, Keith was pushing the limits of existing cartridges, driving large bullets at high velocities.\n\nHe was married to Loraine Randall. Elmer Keith was born near Hardin, Missouri but was raised in Montana, Idaho, and eastern Oregon. In the 1930s and early 1940s, he had a ranch on the North Fork of the Salmon River near Salmon, Idaho. In the late 1940s, Elmer and Loraine left the ranch and moved into the town of Salmon. [The ranch is still owned by the Keith family.]\n\nDuring World War II, Keith served as an inspector at the Ogden, Utah Arsenal. The rifles that he inspected were cartouche stamped with the initials \"OGEK\" in a rectangular box, on the buttstock. Rifles stamped OGEK without a rectangular box were inspected by Ed Klouser at the same Ogden Arsenal.\n\nIn \"The Phantom Of Phu Bai\", a biography of USMC Scout Sniper Eric England written by Dr. Joseph B. Turner, one chapter is about Elmer Keith and his influence on the shooting community.\n\nKeith's first major contribution, the .357 Magnum, was the result of handloading the .38 Special cartridge far beyond normally accepted limits, taking full advantage of the greater strength of the revolvers available in the 1920s compared to those of the late 19th century. The .357 Magnum first became available in 1935 and quickly became a favorite among law enforcement and civilian users. The .357 Magnum had a slightly longer case than the .38 Special, but was otherwise identical, so .357 Magnum revolvers could shoot .38 Special or .357 Magnum ammunition, but .38 Special revolvers (most of which are not safe for the pressures generated by the Magnum round) could not chamber .357 Magnum ammunition. Buying a .357 Magnum revolver gave the shooter all the abilities of the well-established .38 Special, with the ability to double the available power by using the Magnum cartridge. Keith's contributions to the commercial development of the .357 Magnum have been questioned by some writers, and Keith subsequently denigrated the .357 Magnum as he had the .38 Special.\n\nThe .44 Magnum was developed in much the same way, and was released commercially in 1956. Keith had earlier determined that the thinner chamber walls of the .45 Colt would not comfortably withstand the pressures generated by his own heavy loads. He therefore started experimenting with the .44 Special revolver, and used the same formula of pushing heavy bullets at high velocities that he had used for the .357 Magnum. The resulting \".44 Special Magnum\" was a formidable cartridge for handgun hunting, firing a 250 grain bullet at .\n\nKeith encouraged Smith & Wesson and Remington to produce a commercial version of this new high pressure loading, and revolvers chambered for it. While S&W produced the first prototype revolver chambered in .44 Magnum, the famous Model 29, Sturm, Ruger actually beat S&W to market by several months in 1956 with a .44 Magnum version of the single action Blackhawk revolver. In fact Remington delivered a more powerful cartridge than Keith asked for, firing a 240 grain bullet at , and it remained the most powerful production handgun cartridge until the commercial introduction of the .454 Casull (based on the .45 Colt). The .44 Magnum is still far more popular, as the recoil of .454 Casull rounds is considered excessive by most shooters, and revolvers in .454 Casull were rare and expensive until the introduction of .454 Casull models by Sturm, Ruger and Taurus in the late 1990s.\n\nThe .41 Magnum, released in 1963, was an attempt to reach a middle ground between the .357 and .44 magnums. The .357 Magnum was adequate for hunting deer-sized game, but the limited power meant it needed to be used by a skilled marksman. The .44 Magnum provided far more power, easily taking deer-sized game, but recoil and muzzle blast are substantial, at least in the earliest commercial loadings. The .41 Magnum, inspired by the older, obsolete .41 Long Colt cartridge, was intended to provide more power than the .357 Magnum with less recoil and muzzle blast than the .44 Magnum. The .41 Magnum used a completely new case (unlike the .357 Magnum and .44 Magnum which were based on existing cases), and used a .410\" bullet instead of the earlier .41 Colt and .38-40's roughly .400\" diameter bullet, while pushing the new .410\" bullet to similar velocities as achieved by the .357 and .44 Magnum bullets. However, while there was (and still is) a small community of shooters preferring the .41 Magnum, the round failed to achieve a similar high degree of popularity. Some police, to whom the .41 Magnum was initially marketed, were happy with the .38 Special or .357 Magnum, and many officers had no interest in anything more powerful, and which also delivered greater blast and recoil that could place the shooter at a disadvantage in a gunfight requiring fast follow-up shots. Some police departments adopted the 41 Mag with a reduced load designed for police use, and were quite happy the added power required only one hit to put an opponent down. Thus the 41 Magnum saved many officer's lives who were lucky enough to use them. Hunters likewise stayed with the more commonly available .44 Magnum, which could be used with full power factory loads, less powerful handloads, or commercial .44 Special ammunition as needed.\n\nKeith regarded the handgun as a weapon of opportunity. He had plenty of opportunities to use his sixgun on game during his life. He was incredibly skilled with handguns. He shot at a rifle-wounded deer and hit it several times at a range of using his 6½ inch S&W Model 29. It is currently part of the Keith collection with the factory standard barrel length that he more commonly carried. The Keith firearm collection has been dispersed, having been sold individually at auction by James D. Julia in March 2015.\n\nKeith is also famous for designing and commissioning his No. 5 revolver, fashioned by R. F. Sedgeley, in 1928.\n\nKeith was also responsible for a number of bullet designs still popular today, and collectively called \"Keith style\" bullets. These bullets were based on the semiwadcutter (SWC) design, but using a wider than normal front surface, and convex sides. These changes increased the volume of the bullet \"outside\" the case, thus allowing more room \"inside\" the case, needed for large loads of slower burning powders (see internal ballistics). These bullets remain popular for both target shooting and hunting. When shooting paper targets, they cut a relatively clean hole in the target, yet provide more case volume and a better ballistic coefficient than a flat front wadcutter. When used for hunting, the heavy bullets provide excellent penetration; they are often used on dangerous game, for which more reliable penetration is required than is possible with expanding hollow point or soft point bullets.\n\nOriginally Keith specified a meplat that was 65% of the bullet caliber, but later increased it to a 70% meplat. The other distinguishing characteristics of a \"Keith-style\" SWC are a double radius ogive, beveled crimp groove, three equal width driving bands, wide square bottomed grease groove, and a plain base with sharp corners. The wide forward driving band helps keep the bullet aligned as it jumps across the cylinder gap. Because of the three wide equal width driving bands, the total bearing surface is half the length of the bullet. The relatively large bearing surface helps the Keith-style SWC to be an inherently accurate bullet, and minimizes leading from gas blow-by. The wide square bottom grease groove holds ample lubricant.\n\nKeith was instrumental in the development of various wildcat cartridges, a few of which were later adopted as factory rounds. The .333 OKH (\"O'Neil-Keith-Hopkins\"), developed in conjunction with Charlie O'Neil and Don Hopkins, was made from .30-06 Springfield brass necked up to take the .333\" 250 and 300-grain bullets of the .333 Jeffery. There was also a .334 OKH, based on the shortened .300 H&H Magnum case. The .333 OKH, necked up slightly to take the more common .338\" sized bullets of the older .33 Winchester, led to the creation of the popular Wildcat cartridge the .338-06, also known as the 338 OKH, and was the inspiration for the 1958 commercial introduction of the .338 Winchester Magnum based on the larger belted .458 Winchester Magnum case. The .334 OKH, likewise necked up to accept .338\" bullets and given the distinctive Weatherby \"double-radius\" shoulder, was introduced by Weatherby in 1963 as the .340 Weatherby Magnum. The .338-378 Weatherby Magnum, introduced in 1998, was developed based on another one of Keith's wildcats, the .338-378 KT(Keith-Thomson), which he developed in the 1960s with Bob Thomson.\n\nAn admirer of the old British double rifles, Keith had numerous examples in his collection. He used two of these doubles, a .476 Westley Richards and a .500 Nitro Express, to take dangerous game in Africa on two different safaris. Keith documented the first of these hunts in his 1968 tome, \"Safari\".\n\nKeith was a prolific writer, writing both books and magazine columns. During the 1950s and 1960s, he was especially well known for his regular monthly columns he wrote for \"Guns & Ammo\" magazine and \"American Rifleman\" typically exploring the performance of the latest new gun offerings, especially those firing large, heavy bullets pushed to high velocities. He has influenced modern gun writers such as Mike Venturino and John Taffin.\n\n\nReferences are to Ray Riling, \"Guns and Shooting, a Bibliography,\" New York: Greenberg, 1951.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4076289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076289", "title": "Frank Sandford", "text": "Frank Sandford\n\nFrank Weston Sandford (October 2, 1862 – March 4, 1948) was an American religious leader, preacher, and religious extremist, who attained notoriety during the Pentecostal Era as the founder and leader of \"The Kingdom\".\n\nSanford was born in Bowdoinham, Maine to a farming family. In his thirties, he gained exposure to premillennialism, the Higher Life movement, the indwelling power of the Holy Spirit, and divine healing. In August 1891, after executing a successful exorcism and hearing the voice of god in a forest warn him of \"Armageddon\", he established a supernatural closed commune called the \"Shiloh\" in Durham, Maine. Commune members were forced to pray hours-on-end, fast, and obey his orders absolutely. After commune members disagreed about his biblical interpretations he instituted a chain-of-command where he ruled limited by only God and Jesus Christ. After a final divine intervention, he declared himself the earthly incarnation of prophits Elijah and King David, and founded \"The Kingdom\"–an apocalyptic Christian sect.\n\nConsidered by former members and many neighbors to be an autocrat who insisted on unquestioning loyalty, Sandford regularly starved his followers causing deadly outbreaks of smallpox, diphtheria, and other infectious diseases. The death of 14-year-old Leander Bartlett lead to his conviction of manslaughter and cruelty to children in 1904. Due to religious laws at the time, a 1905 Maine Supreme Court ruling reversed his convictions. After the ruling, he sailed to Jerusalem on multiple missionary voyages. In 1910, he traveled aboard the \"Kingdom\", to Africa with more than seventy men, women, and children. In March 1911, the \"Kingdom\" went aground and was destroyed off the coast of French West Africa which inspired Sandford to sail to Greenland to create a mission station. Knowingly sailing without sufficient food or supplies, six crew members contracted scurvy and died upon his return to Portland.\n\nHe was detained by authorities upon docking and sentenced to seven years in Atlanta U.S. Penitentiary. While he was in prison, letters sent to his followers were reprinted en masse and distributed among the commune. In 1918, he was released on good behavior and returned to the \"Shiloh\", resuming his responsibilities after previously attempting to install his son, John, as leader. However, two years later, the death of another commune member saw to \"The Scattering\". After the commune was evacuated by law, he moved to New York's Catskill Mountains to be closer to God. On March 4, 1948, Sandford died, which prompted his body to be secretly buried by followers, and all of his belongings burned in various house fires. His absence retarded the growth of his small sect; but it survived, in attenuated form, into the 21st century with the creation of the Kingdom Christian Ministries in 1998.\n\nSandford was born in Bowdoinham, Maine, the tenth child of a farming family. As a young man Frank was a natural leader. An early companion recalled that he was always the one who \"drove the horse and steered the boat\"; if they played ball, \"he was always a captain.\" His father died when Frank was fourteen, and by sixteen he was teaching school during an era in which physical prowess was often necessary to establish classroom discipline.\n\nDuring his second year of teaching, Sandford reluctantly attended a revival meeting at his mother's Free Baptist church and was converted on February 29, 1880. He threw away his tobacco and announced his conversion publicly, not only at church but also at Nichols Latin School, where worldly cosmopolitanism was the preferred pose.\n\nEntering Bates College on a general scholarship, Sandford was elected class president and served as both coach and catcher of the baseball team. He graduated in 1886 with honors and was chosen to give a commencement address. For a summer he captained a semi-pro baseball team and was approached by professional scouts. After a teammate ridiculed him for attending church on the annual State of Maine Fast Day, Sandford returned to Bates to attend Cobb Divinity School.\n\nFrustrated by the seminary's mixture of formalism and religious modernism, Sandford later said that God had addressed him directly with words from the gospel of Matthew, \"Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.\" For the rest of his life he distrusted academic religion. Soon thereafter the twenty-four-year-old dropped out of seminary after he was called as pastor by the Freewill Baptist church in Topsham, Maine. Sandford was frenetically energetic, and within three years his revivals resulted in three hundred conversions and more than a hundred baptisms. Besides serving as pastor, he became principal of the Topsham schools and organized sports programs for both local children and workers at a paper mill.\n\nBeginning in 1887, Sandford's religious views changed dramatically. In July, he attended Dwight L. Moody’s \"College of Colleges\" at Northfield Mount Hermon School in Northfield, Massachusetts, the second annual meeting of the Student Volunteer Movement. The college men who attended represented a revival of interest in foreign missions among more privileged Americans. Moody himself provided Sandford with three important religious ideas: personal holiness, living by faith, and informal preaching. Shortly thereafter, Sandford read Hannah Whitall Smith's, \"The Christian's Secret of a Happy Life\" (1875). Smith was an exponent of \"higher life\" Christianity; but what most attracted Sandford was Smith's \"emphasis on action, on a life that acts on faith, that obeys by doing.\"\n\nLater that fall Sandford was present for a religious conference that featured the Rev. A. B. Simpson, who had come to Maine specifically to organize the Christian and Missionary Alliance. Simpson's ministry emphasized not only missions and deeper life holiness but also faith healing. (At the latter meeting Sandford also met Helen Kinney, the daughter of a wealthy cotton broker, who had surrendered a career in art to become a foreign missionary.) Finally, in the summer of 1888, Sandford attended the Niagara Bible Conference, which emphasized the imminent, premillennial return of Christ.\n\nThese diverse, yet related, strands of late 19th-century evangelicalism came together for Sandford after he accepted the pastorate of a more affluent Free Baptist Church in Somersworth, New Hampshire. Following a period of emotional depression—perhaps a nervous breakdown—he was temporarily released by his church after the denomination invited him and another young minister to travel around the world. Sandford visited Japan, China, India, Egypt, and Palestine. In China he toured the China Inland Mission of Hudson Taylor, where he noted with admiration that \"all depend upon God for support and divide their supplies equally\"—a model for his own Shiloh. Visiting the Holy Land, Sandford developed a lifelong passion for more knowledge about it, but he nearly died when his steamer sank off Jaffa.\n\nAfter his return to America, the pastorate seemed tame, his congregation narrow-minded. In August 1891, Sandford had two strange experiences: he tentatively, but (at least according to his own testimony) successfully, cast demons out of a friend; and the following morning, he heard whispered in the trees the single word, \"Armageddon.\" Shortly thereafter, Sandford convinced Helen Kinney, whom he had met again as a missionary in Japan, to marry him. When he suggested leaving the pastorate and preaching the gospel without visible support, she replied, \"I think it would be lovely.\"\n\nOn New Year's Day, 1893, Sandford told his church that God had told him, \"Go.\" He resigned his pulpit and gave away his savings in the teeth of an economic panic and depression. Sandford and his wife then began holding meetings in rural Maine—at the beginning with virtually no congregations and no financial support. But Sandford continued to preach. Eventually he achieved some success among people in the coastal hill regions of Maine, and contributions now came in plentifully, although Sandford did not solicit money or even pass a collection plate.\n\nBy the fall of 1894, Sandford believed that he no longer bore responsibility for his actions, that he need only respond to the movings of the Holy Spirit. Thus abandoning the Free Baptists, he began to issue a monthly magazine in which he advertised for other workers to join him in his ministry. A year later with a small but committed following of young people, he announced the opening of a school, soon given the name \"Holy Ghost and Us Bible School.\" The school charged no tuition, offered no courses, and had no teachers except Sandford and no textbooks except the Bible.\n\nIn 1896, Sandford became convinced that God had told him to build a home for the Bible school on a sandy hill near Durham, Maine. At that moment Sandford had three cents in his pocket. Nevertheless, he had plenty of faith that God would provide the means of putting up a building without his explicitly asking for money. Although Sandford eventually decided that publishing a list of needs in his \"Tongues of Fire\" would be acceptable, the manner in which the money and volunteer labor was provided by supporters was nearly miraculous in any case. Sandford had intended to name only the main building \"Shiloh\" (after a place in the Bible), but the name \"Shiloh\" was obviously more mellifluous than \"The Holy Ghost and Us,\" and it became the informal name of Sandford's movement.\nAt its height, the Shiloh had more than six hundred residents who attempted to \"live in the supernatural.\" None worked for pay, and all depended on God to supply their material needs. To live at Shiloh meant to \"be in a constant state of readiness for the 'Holy Spirit's latest,' as Sandford put it. This meant no settling into ruts of any kind. It meant being ready to do any job, especially those you were least adept at...It meant being open to last-minute changes in schedule.\" There \"was\" a typical schedule: one or two hours of private devotions in the morning, breakfast and kitchen chores, prayer at 9 AM, classes until noon, lunch before personal household or office duties. But the schedule might be interrupted at any moment by some special request for prayer. \"God's work could not be crammed into a human schedule, and fussy ideas about order were not appropriate.\"\n\nExcept for celebrating Jewish Feasts and keeping the Sabbath on Saturday, Sandford's theology was, at this point, not far from mainstream evangelicalism. Nevertheless, because Sandford believed that Thursday was the day on which Jesus was crucified, he and his followers prayed for six hours (from 9 AM to 3 PM) on that day. In the summer of 1896, Sandford publicly discussed the two prophets mentioned in the Book of Revelation who would appear before Christ's Second Coming, and he declared that his school would \"stand by and if need be die\" with them. When Sandford's son John was born shortly after the dedication of Shiloh, Sandford said that (like John the Baptist), the boy had been \"filled with the Holy Ghost even from his mother's womb.\"\n\nBy 1898 Sandford had found additional spiritual and material support among Higher Life Christians in Boston and London, and he concluded that God now wanted him to establish an outpost in Palestine. Visiting Jerusalem for the first time, he dashed off a paper announcing that the Ten Lost Tribes were England and America, blood descendants of the ancient Hebrews who had been carried into captivity by the Assyrians in 721 BC. British Israelism was a religious version of ideas about Anglo-Saxon supremacy that were common to the contemporary English-speaking world, and the doctrine made the Bible all the more relevant because its prophecies seemed to apply to the people of Shiloh and the nation of which it was a part.\n\nBy the early 20th century, the doctrine of divine healing had become an important part of Sandford's teaching. Initially skeptical, Sandford had resolved to “preach that part of the Bible” after attending an 1887 meeting where A.B. Simpson had spoken on the subject. In 1897 Sandford also witnessed and praised the miracles of contemporary faith healer John Alexander Dowie. Soon \"Tongues of Fire\" reported healings of pneumonia, cancer, diphtheria, catarrh, \"sick headache,\" sprained wrist, dropsy, typhoid, mental derangement, broken bones, and \"utter exhaustion.\" A local three-year-old girl who had been pronounced permanently blind by medical authorities suddenly regained her sight after prayer was offered for her at Shiloh. But the most spectacular case was the \"resurrection\" of Olive Mills, who had been seriously ill, perhaps with spinal meningitis. Told Mills was dead, Sandford found her without breath or pulse. In desperation he shouted, \"Olive Mills! Come back! In the name of Jesus of Nazareth, come back!\" Almost immediately, Mills opened her eyes, and within a few hours she was out of bed and dressed.\n\nSandford believed the Epistle of James compelled Christians who were sick to call church elders for prayer and the laying on of hands. Sandford criticized Christians who sought treatment from physicians. He believed that illness might be the result of either discipline from God or an attack of Satan; but casting out demons required “prevailing prayer,” an exercise that included such protracted fervency and shouting that one skeptic became apprehensive as what sounded “like a hundred people talking at once” concluded with a woman’s screams piercing the din. In 1899, Sandford received a divine message to complete a hospital in a hasty building drive—a technique frequently employed at Shiloh—but it was a hospital in which doctors were permitted only for diagnoses and consultations. No medicines of any kind were provided. Among those influenced by these early religious developments at Shiloh were A. J. Tomlinson, founder of the Church of God, and Charles Fox Parham, one of the founders of the Pentecostal movement.\n\nBy end of the century Sandford became convinced \"that as the passive agent of God's will, he could require exact and total obedience.\" Furthermore, as Hiss has written, to skeptics \"Sandford's language vibrated with blasphemy, for in describing his own prayers as God's actions, he seemed to regard himself as having divine powers.\"\n\nInevitably Sandford encountered opposition. A brief follower published an exposé, \"Sanfordism Exposed\", and relatives of converts who wished to deed their property to Shiloh tried to have them declared insane. Although Durham benefited from levying taxes on the residential portions of Shiloh, the town also feared that block voting by Shiloh residents might dominate the town meeting, the school board, or the board of selectmen or, that in the event of bankruptcy, its members might become dependent on town charity.\n\nMore serious threats arose from among Sandford's own followers. The movement claimed to follow the leading of the Holy Spirit, but conflict developed when members disagreed about where the Holy Spirit was leading. In September 1900 Sandford announced that there would henceforth be an official chain of authority: God the Father, God the Son, the prophet whom God had chosen, ordained ministers subordinate to the prophet, everyone else subordinate to the ministers, with women and children also subordinate to their husbands and fathers. Sandford then instituted an organized purge of members that \"incorporated not just confession, but long day and night sessions of open and unrelenting criticism of each other. One's capacity to accept that scouring in a contrite and cooperative spirit, without resentment or defensiveness, was the first step in passing the grade.\" One by one individuals were then brought before Sandford himself for final scrutiny by \"the seven eyes of God.\"\n\nSandford also developed a three-tiered membership in his religious system: those willing to be \"100-fold warriors\" would be supported by 60- and 30-fold members who would live in their own homes and continue to work. In 1901, to make a clean break with the past, Sandford instituted closed communion and rebaptized all local members of his society in the nearby Androscoggin River.\n\nShortly thereafter, Sandford announced that God had spoken three words to him \"like a thunderbolt\": \"Elijah is Here!\" And it was as Elijah that Sandford now called down God's judgment on \"every lying pen,\" editors who had written critically \"about this man of God.\" As usual Sandford was also making an eschatological reference. Sandford believed that he, as Elijah, would be one of the \"Two Witnesses\" of Revelation 11, who would be martyred and rise from the dead in Jerusalem before the coming of Christ's kingdom. The \"Elijah\" announcement was met with increased ridicule from the press and led to the breaking of all ties with followers of Moody and A. B. Simpson.\n\nIn 1902, after once again visiting Jerusalem, Sandford received a divine message that indicated that in some way, he was also the biblical David. Sandford had a portrait of himself printed encircled by the words \"David careth for the Sheep,\" and he immediately renamed his movement \"The Kingdom.\"\n\nSandford returned to Maine to find his community at what he considered a low spiritual ebb and with many members ill, most fearfully with smallpox. Peers were encouraged to closely examine each other's lives for sin, and parents regularly whipped children, a practice Sandford apparently condoned as the \"schoolmaster to bring them to Christ.\" In January 1903, Sandford instituted a \"Ninevah Fast\" forbidding all food or liquid for thirty-six hours even for infants, animals, and the sick. During that period fourteen-year-old Leander Bartlett, who had confessed to the most serious sin of planning to run away from Shiloh, died of diphtheria. When Sandford's own six-year-old son, John, disobeyed him, Sandford ordered him to fast without food or water until he declared himself glad to be whipped. A prominent defector from the sect, Nathan Harriman, publicized John’s treatment and declared Sandford’s hold over the people of Shiloh a kind of hypnotism, in which God's requirements were \"identical with those of Sandford.” \n\nMany local residents took a dim view of Sandford, and the newspapers engaged in \"long-running campaigns against Shiloh.\" One editor denounced Shiloh as \" a damnable institution, a hell upon earth and the worst blot that ever disgraced the fair pages of Maine's history.\" In January 1904 Sandford was indicted by Androscoggin County on charges of cruelty to children and manslaughter—cruelty in the case of his son and manslaughter for his role in Bartlett's death. A jury convicted Sandford on the cruelty charge but was hung on the charge of manslaughter. On appeal, the verdict in the cruelty case was upheld; and at retrial, Sandford was convicted of manslaughter. In 1905, the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine reversed the manslaughter conviction because the trial judge had required jurors to make a decision based on their own belief about the \"efficacy of prayer as a means to cure the sick.\" Another jury trial resulted in another hung jury. Meanwhile, Sandford had his followers sign a ten-foot scroll called the \"Pledge of Loyalty,\" which included among its articles of faith a statement that \"F. W. Sandford of Shiloh, Maine, U.S.A.\" was Elijah and David, and that \"I believe in and accept him as such.\"\n\nWhile his manslaughter case was still in the courts, Sandford purchased the racing yacht \"Coronet\", an extravagantly appointed schooner, for $10,000—raised in the usual Shiloh manner by prayer, \"in this case, forty days and nights of it, with shifts for eating and sleeping.\" Sandford made two quick trips to Jerusalem in 1905-06, but when his legal difficulties had ended, he and his thirty selected crewmen and passengers (including his wife and five children) circumnavigated the globe on what he described as a missionary journey. It was an unconventional missionary enterprise. No one went ashore to preach the Gospel or even distribute religious literature. Sandford intended to \"subdue the world for Christ\" by intercessory prayer, claiming nations and isles for Christ by sounding brass instruments as they passed by. Oddly, Sandford added a taxidermist to a crew of reasonably experienced seamen, and he included on a ship already filled to capacity both \"eyes for stuffed animals and birds\" and a large harp on which he took lessons. There were moments of real peril, as when the \"Coronet\" fought its way through the thundering seas around Cape Horn and then again after a powerful gale broke the main sheet and (indirectly) part of the mast almost immediately after Sandford had shot an albatross. During calmer periods, Sandford had leisure enough to hunt and receive an occasional vision.\n\nEven before returning to Maine, Sandford heard that Florence Whittaker, a member of his outpost in Jerusalem, wanted to abandon the sect whether or not her minister husband (who had just accompanied Sandford on the multi-year circumnavigation) would leave with her. At this point Sandford decided to bring back all his followers from Palestine, and Whittaker reluctantly agreed to accept passage to the United States on another Shiloh ship, the three-masted barquentine, \"Kingdom\". She was treated with utmost courtesy until they reached the Maine coast, at which point Sandford refused to let her land until she was \"adjusted\" to her husband. Eventually Whittaker was freed by court order and was then given custody of her children.\n\nThe story made sensational newspaper fare, especially when Florence Whittaker sued Sandford for forcible detention. At the time Sandford was aboard the \"Coronet\", and authorities began watching ports to serve him the legal papers. Sandford determined that they would not find him, that a mission station should be opened immediately in Africa and perhaps another in Greenland. In December 1910 more than seventy men, women, and children headed off to Africa, divided between the \"Kingdom\" and the \"Coronet\". In March 1911, the \"Kingdom\" went aground and was destroyed off the coast of French West Africa. Sandford blamed the wreck on the spiritual impotence of its passengers and crew, but he took everyone aboard the \"Coronet\", which now became fearfully overloaded with people and undersupplied with food and water.\n\nNevertheless, Sandford heard the supernatural direction, \"Continue,\" which he interpreted to mean to sail on to Greenland. After recrossing the Atlantic to catch the northerly currents, the \"Coronet\" passed up numerous opportunities to take on water and supplies, Sandford announcing that God had ordered him not to put into port in the United States or Canada. Finally, on September 6, 1911, there was a \"quiet mutiny\" of some sort off the Grand Banks, and the \"Coronet\" was turned south. Unfortunately, the ship now made little headway, and the passengers and crew were saved from possible starvation only by the fortuitous appearance of the ocean liner, S. S. Lapland, which provided some food—but ominously, no fruit or vegetables.\n\nAlmost before they knew what was happening, men began to fall victim to scurvy; and within a few days after the \"Coronet\" reached Portland on October 21, 1911, scurvy had claimed the lives of six crew members. Sandford was first arrested on Florence Whittaker's warrant and then, a few days later, for being responsible for the deaths—\"unlawfully, knowingly, and willingly\" allowing a ship to \"proceed on a voyage at sea without sufficient provisions.\"\n\nSandford refused to employ legal counsel at the trial, although he did receive legal advice—which he rejected. In court, Sandford declared that the sickness and starvation aboard the \"Coronet\" was punishment from God for refusing to obey his command to continue to Greenland. The jury brought in a guilty verdict within an hour. On December 17, 1911, Sanford was sentenced to serve not more than ten years at the federal penitentiary in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nAlthough Sandford accepted imprisonment as the will of God, he had difficulty at first bending to prison regulations. But with sleep, proper nourishment, and enforced exercise, his health gradually improved. He even insisted that Shiloh residents drop whatever they were doing at 11:30 and 4:00 and exercise with him. He was made a gatekeeper and given a pass that allowed him to spend some time out of doors. He also volunteered to teach a group of prisoners how to read and write and especially enjoyed conducting a weekly Bible class that began with one student and grew to more than a hundred. Eventually Shiloh was allowed to send him a harp, and Sandford was not only able to practice, he gave at least two concerts at the prison.\n\nSandford had appointed seven ministers to share responsibility for leading the group, but his letters were treated like \"a purse of gold.\" Many of them, even private letters to his family, were printed and distributed. Because prisoners were only allowed to send two letters a month, a sect member moved to Atlanta and took dictation during weekly visits.\n\nDuring his imprisonment, Sandford tried to promote his teenage son John as a Shiloh leader, and John seems to have had some success at editing a new periodical, \"The Golden Trumpet\". But when in 1915, John was put in charge of an inquisitorial board called the \"Eye-of-the-Needle,\" intended to probe the souls of Shiloh residents, Sandford himself brought the experiment to a halt when his son incurred resentment and, in any case, proved temperamentally unsuited to the task. Shortly thereafter, Marguerite, one of Sandford's daughters, ran away from the community, a serious blow to Sandford's authority because of his insistence that leaders be able to \"handle their children.\"\n\nGiven three years off for good behavior, Sandford was released from prison in September 1918. When he reappeared at Shiloh, he was served a sumptuous meal, although many Shiloh residents had recently suffered serious illness and almost all, hunger. Sandford's return to Shiloh sparked new contributions and new healings, even food enough for two meals a day.\n\nNevertheless, three days after his arrival, another of Sandford's daughters ran away, and a few months later Sandford left Maine for the sect's Boston headquarters. Furthermore, the sect had conducted virtually no evangelistic outreach since the beginning of Sandford's imprisonment in 1911.\n\nThe end of the Shiloh community came suddenly in 1920 after the death of Shiloh resident Elma Hastings and a suit brought by relatives for guardianship of her children on the grounds of non-support by their father. Then the Children's Protective Society of Maine, having investigated living conditions at Shiloh, urged that all minors be removed from the community.\n\nIn March 1920, Sandford sent the message, \"Work.\" No one anticipated that this directive would effectively end the Shiloh community within days. Two months later the prayer vigils had stopped, the Bible school was closed, and the Shiloh population had dropped from 370 to a handful. As Nelson has written, once the men went off to the mills, everything changed. With \"the assurance that they would never be hungry again,\" that their needs would be met in the same way everyone else's were met, \"there was no reason to stay. They could be ordinary Christians anywhere.\"\n\nBefore Shiloh was finally deserted in May, Sandford heard the heavenly direction to \"Retire.\" For the remainder of his life, Sandford lived in seclusion near the village of Hobart, New York in the Catskill Mountains. He prayed, farmed, raised sheep, studied astronomy, taught small groups, and gradually regathered his scattered followers into centers in different parts of the country. Messages were delivered to the faithful by a smaller inner circle.\n\nSandford continued to be supported by the tithes of his followers, and his retirement was \"satisfying and serene,\" although his papers and books were twice destroyed in house fires. To some degree Sandford relaxed his earlier rhetoric. On New Year's Eve, 1941, he received a message from God to \"remit the sins of each and every person that has been baptized since October 1, 1901.\" But he never renounced his claim to be Elijah; nor did he ever express remorse for those who had died on the \"Coronet\" thirty years earlier.\n\nSandford's death on March 4, 1948 was quiet and peaceful. His funeral and interment, however, were hasty and secretive. The news of his death was not released to the press for six weeks. Sandford had, of course, not died as Elijah in Jerusalem, but as an unheralded inhabitant of a Catskill village.\n\nThe Kingdom continued after Sandford's death under the informal leadership of Victor Abram, his personal secretary, although Sandford never had a true successor. At Abram’s death in 1977, his son-in-law, Joseph Wakeman, became leader but thought of himself \"as more of a caretaker.\" The membership then gradually learned that Abram had had a series of extra-marital affairs while leading an organization that emphasized moral purity.\n\nA successor organization, Kingdom Christian Ministries—reorganized in 1998 after a split occasioned by continued debate over Sandford's theology—has several hundred members at a few centers in the eastern United States. An independent evangelical Christian church, Shiloh Chapel, meets in a remaining portion of the original Shiloh building in Durham, Maine; it is no longer affiliated with Kingdom Christian Ministries. The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places for its distinctive architecture and history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44102054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102054", "title": "Gareth (The Walking Dead)", "text": "Gareth (The Walking Dead)\n\nGareth is a fictional character from the American television series \"The Walking Dead\" portrayed by Andrew J. West. Gareth is based on Chris from the comic book series of the same name, according to West himself. Gareth is introduced at the end of season 4. He is initially introduced as the welcoming yet mysterious leader of Terminus. However, his true motivations are revealed after Gareth forces Rick Grimes and his fellow survivors into train car A. At the beginning of season 5, it is revealed Gareth and his entire community are cannibals. As the result of the actions by Carol Peletier, the group escapes, leaving many casualties of Terminus. Gareth, however, leads the remaining survivors to try to hunt down Rick's group and eat them.\n\nIn the season finale \"A,\" Gareth first appears as the leader of Terminus. When Rick, Carl, Daryl, and Michonne sneak into Terminus and introduce themselves, Gareth and Alex welcome them. Gareth then takes them outside to get food from Mary. Rick notices that items from missing members of his group are being used by Terminus residents, so he suddenly slaps a plate of meat out of Alex's hand and takes him hostage. A shootout ensues, resulting in Alex's death, forcing the group to run for cover. After being herded by gunfire through the complex, they are finally pinned down by snipers and forced to surrender. Gareth orders them one-by-one to enter a train car parked nearby, and they are reunited with the rest of the group.\n\nIn the season premiere \"No Sanctuary,\" a flashback shows that Gareth, his brother Alex, and several Terminus residents are locked in a train car after being attacked by unknown visitors. Alex regrets putting up the signs that lead to Terminus, while Gareth retorts that they were only being human. Alex then asks him, \"What are we now?\" In the present, Rick, Daryl, Glenn, and Bob have been rounded up and led into a butchering room to face a trough alongside several other captives, including Sam, two butchers then execute Sam and three other prisoners by bleeding them out. Afterwards, Glenn's death is narrowly averted when Gareth shows up to discuss mundane operations with the butchers and interrogate Rick about the bag of weapons he buried in the woods. As the butchers prepare to kill Glenn, gunfire erupts outside followed by an explosion. Gareth leaves the room, and Rick takes advantage of the chaos and kills the butchers. As the group fights their way out of Terminus, which is partially destroyed and filling with walkers, Rick shoots Gareth, who is leading some of his men out, in the shoulder. In the episode \"Strangers,\" Rick's group has taken refuge inside a church. Bob steps outside the church alone and is knocked unconscious by a hooded figure. When he wakes up, he is face to face with Gareth, who explains that he and his group of survivors from Terminus were once normal, but with the destruction of Terminus they have evolved into 'hunters.' It is then revealed that the group cut off Bob's left leg in order to eat it. Gareth casually says, \"If it makes you feel any better, you taste much better than we thought you would.\"\nIn the episode \"Four Walls and a Roof,\" Bob, laughing hysterically, informs Gareth and the other Terminus survivors that they just consumed tainted meat as he was bitten by a walker (in \"Strangers\"). While the other members begin to react in horror and vomit, Gareth angrily kicks Bob unconscious and suggests that they will be fine as the meat was cooked. They later leave Bob on the lawn at Father Gabriel's church where the other survivors find him. Bob tells them that the place the Terminus group was at resembled a school and Rick, Sasha, Abraham, Tara, Glenn and Maggie set off to find an old elementary school while Eugene, Rosita, Tyreese, Bob, Carl and Judith are left behind. Gareth and the Terminus survivors ambush the church and prepare to shoot open the doors to the room they are hiding in after Judith's cry gives away their location. Before they can shoot the doors open, Rick shoots two Terminus members in the head, killing them, revealing that Rick expected the Terminus members would ambush the church once they departed. Rick shoots off two of Gareth's fingers, bringing him to his knees as he pleads with Rick that if he is let go, their paths will never cross again and that he knows what it's like to be hungry. Rick denies the request, knowing that Gareth's group will continue to kill others, and pulls out his red-handled machete that he had previously threatened to kill Gareth with while held captive at Terminus. Rick reminds Gareth of his earlier promise and then hacks Gareth to death with the machete.\n\nAndrew West has stated that the character is based on Chris the hunter from the comic series. Several parallels can be drawn between Gareth's and Chris's character arcs, including similar dialogue, events and the outfit.\n\nTerri Schwartz of \"Zap2it\" commented on the episode \"Strangers\", saying \"surprisingly Father Gabriel Stokes wasn't the biggest arrival in the episode. Though he is a man who -- as is repeatedly said in the series -- clearly has something to hide, it's the reveal that Gareth and the Terminans have turned into the Hunters from \"The Walking Dead\" comics that is the most skin-crawling, stomach-turning moment in the episode.\"\n"}
{"id": "1087465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087465", "title": "George Steele", "text": "George Steele\n\nWilliam James Myers (April 16, 1937 – February 16, 2017), better known by his ring name George \"The Animal\" Steele, was an American professional wrestler, school teacher, author, and actor. His career lasted from 1967 until 1988, though he made occasional wrestling appearances into the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nSteele portrayed Swedish wrestler and actor Tor Johnson in Tim Burton's film \"Ed Wood.\n\nMyers was born in Detroit on April 16, 1937, and was raised in Madison Heights, Michigan. During high school, he found success in track, baseball, basketball, and football. In 1956, Myers entered Michigan State University as a football player for the Michigan State Spartans, but his career as a football player was immediately cut short as a result of knee problems. In 1961, he was with the Grand Rapids Blazers (UFL).\n\nAfter earning a bachelor of science degree from Michigan State University and a master's degree from Central Michigan University, Myers became a teacher, amateur wrestling coach, and football coach at Madison High School in Madison Heights, Michigan. There he would eventually become a member of the Michigan Coaches Hall of Fame.\n\nLooking to supplement his income, he got into the world of Detroit-area professional wrestling, but in order to protect his privacy, he wrestled using a mask and the name The Student. Gary Hart served as The Student's manager and had to explain to the announcers why his client could not apply any legitimate holds or maneuvers instead relying on only his undisciplined brute strength. Myers was soon scouted by World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) champion Bruno Sammartino and began working in Pittsburgh in 1967 on the popular \"Studio Wrestling\" TV show broadcast on WIIC-TV (later WPXI-TV) Channel 11. Sammartino had liked the character Myers developed of a wild man with incredible strength. However, he had him drop the mask, as well as the title of The Student. Looking to hide his real name, Myers opted for the alias \"George Steele\". According to Michigan High School Hall of Fame Coach George Steele of Warren, he and Myers were coaching against each other in a high school JV match-up while both were early into their careers. At halftime, Myers approached Steele and told him about his venture into wrestling and that he was looking for a name. Myers allegedly asked Steele if he could use his name, that he liked it a lot and the future Hall of Fame coach told him no problem. Steele states in an interview available on YouTube that he was in Pittsburgh when he was looking for a stage name. Local wrestler \"Jumpin'\" John DeFazio suggested Jim Steele since he was in the \"Steel City\". He didn't like the first name Jim and he suggested George which is what he eventually went with.\n\nWorking well with Sammartino, he was invited for a full run in the WWWF. He told WWWF TV commentator Ray Morgan that he was the nephew of Ray Steele (kayfabe) and had an extensive amateur background. He sold the story by using an array of armlocks on opponents, weakening them for his finisher, the Flying Hammerlock (Steele would lift his opponents off the mat by a hammerlocked arm). He also revealed his teaching background to interviewers that made his in-ring Neanderthal image all the more incongruous. He wrestled Sammartino to an hour-long draw at Madison Square Garden but lost the rematch. In Boston, being set up to face Sammartino for a long series in that city, he got one of the few clean wins over Victor Rivera, a top babyface, with the flying hammerlock submission, at a huge Fenway Park outdoor show. He was then relegated to a feud with Chief Jay Strongbow, and lost to Edouard Carpentier at the Garden before taking a brief hiatus to reinvent his wildman character.\n\nSteele became a true crazy heel, acting like a wild man in the ring, tearing up the turnbuckle with his teeth and using the stuffing as a weapon as well as sticking out his green tongue (an effect accomplished by eating green Clorets breath mints). The Animal had a stooped posture and a hairless head, but a thick mat of fur on his back; wrestling broadcasters often speculated that The Animal was indeed \"the missing link\". At best, The Animal could occasionally manage to utter a word or two during interviews with one of them usually being \"Duh-da-dahh\" or \"YOU! YOU go!\"\n\nAs Steele recalled in a later shoot interview, his infamous \"Duh-dahh\" interview style happened by accident. Throughout his career, Steele prided himself on being able to cut eloquent and effective promos and ranked his mic skills with the best in the business. At a WWF TV taping in the early 1980s, he was cutting one of these promos when Vince McMahon cut him off and reminded Steele that his gimmick was the \"Animal\", and for an animal, he was \"making too much sense\". Incensed, Steele did a second take of nothing but garbled and incoherent syllables (\"Duhh-dahh\"). Steele did this deliberately and out of pure frustration, thinking that McMahon would acquiesce and allow Steele to cut his normal, eloquent promos. Much to Steele's shock, McMahon replied, \"That's exactly what I want!\", and this would remain Steele's interview style for the rest of his WWF run. Steele started to fully cultivate his gimmick of a menacing imbecile.\n\nSteele eventually became one of the more popular and recognizable wrestlers during most of the 1980s professional wrestling boom. He turned face during the first episode of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\" when his partners in a six-man match, Nikolai Volkoff and The Iron Sheik, abandoned him to their opponents, Ricky Steamboat and the U.S. Express (Barry Windham and Mike Rotunda), leading to Steele being taken under the wing of the Express' manager, Capt. Lou Albano, who consoled him following the loss. His most famous feud was in 1986 against \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage, after Steele developed a crush on Savage's valet, Miss Elizabeth. The feud was meant to last only a couple of months (and end with Steele being disappointed), but it proved so popular with fans that it continued well into 1987. During Savage’s Intercontinental Championship match against Steamboat at WrestleMania III, Steele — who was in Steamboat’s corner — twice interfered in the match. First, he took the ring bell from Savage as he attempted to use it off of the top rope. Secondly, after Savage kicked him and took the bell back, Steele shoved Savage off of the top rope, allowing Steamboat to roll up Savage for the pin to win the championship.\n\nIn 1988, Steele began carrying a stuffed animal named \"Mine\" to the ring. He participated in the Wrestlemania IV Battle Royal but was outside of the ring the whole time. According to Steele, he suffered a knee injury at a house show prior to the event, which was the reason he didn't get in the ring. Late in 1988, Steele retired after being diagnosed with Crohn's disease. Steele then became a road agent for the WWF until he was released in October 1990 due to budget cuts. Soon after, however, Steele was re-hired by the WWF and continued to work as an agent until the late 1990s. Though he left the WWF without any WWF championships behind him, Steele grew to become one of the most recognized and popular figures in WWF history and was inducted into the WWF Hall Of Fame class of 1995.\n\nIn 1998, during the WWF's \"Attitude Era\", Steele returned as part of The Oddities. Then on January 10, 2000, he appeared on an episode of \"WCW Monday Nitro\" as one of three legends Jeff Jarrett had to face that night. Eight years later, Steele made an appearance at TNA Wrestling's 2008 Slammiversary pay-per-view event as a groomsman in the wedding for \"Black Machismo\" Jay Lethal and SoCal Val, along with Koko B. Ware, Kamala, and Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts.\n\nSteele made a surprise appearance on \"Monday Night Raw\" on November 15, 2010, during a match between Kofi Kingston and David Otunga.\n\nMyers had dyslexia and was diagnosed with Crohn's disease in 1988, an inflammatory bowel disease that currently has no cure, but can be brought into remission. In 1998, doctors told Myers that his Crohn's Disease had gone into remission and that he no longer suffered from any of the disease's symptoms. In 2002, to prevent the symptoms from returning, Myers had his colon removed.\n\nMyers was a devout Christian. He attended the First Baptist Church Merritt Island and lived in Cocoa Beach, Florida with his wife Pat, whom he married before he entered Michigan State in 1956. Together, Pat and Jim had two sons, Dennis and Randy, and a daughter, Felicia.\n\nOn February 16, 2017, Myers died in hospital care due to kidney failure, at the age of 79.\n\nIn 1994, Steele made his professional acting debut as Swedish wrestler-turned-actor Tor Johnson in Tim Burton's \"Ed Wood\". Coincidentally, Steele was often mistaken for Johnson earlier in his career. According to Steele, a New York novelty shop once sold a Tor Johnson mask as a George Steele mask to increase sales, due to Steele's popularity at the time.\n\nIn 2008 Steele co-starred with Greg Valentine in a short film entitled \"Somethin Fishy\", in which the two former wrestlers purchase a fishing camp. The film served as the pilot for a comedy series that was not developed further.\n\nSteele also appeared in a Minolta commercial with actor Tony Randall.\n\nSteele appears in the video game \"WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain\" as a legend character. He is also featured in all three games in the \"Legends of Wrestling\" series.\n\nHis book, \"Animal\", was released on June 1, 2013.\n\nA song about Steele titled \"George Steele\" appears on the album \"Charmed Life\" by punk rock band Half Japanese. The lyrics include \"There's a man who I admire, a man who set his hair on fire.\"\n\nSteele is referenced in the \"Seinfeld\" episode, \"The Bizarro Jerry\". Repulsed by the \"man hands\" of his current girlfriend, Jerry complains, \"I feel like I'm dating George 'The Animal' Steele.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "403798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403798", "title": "Himiltrude", "text": "Himiltrude\n\nHimiltrude (c. 742-c.780?) was the mother of Charlemagne's first-born son Pippin the Hunchback.\n\nLittle is known about Himiltrude's origins. Paulus Diaconus calls her a \"noble girl\". The appearance of her name in the fraternity books of Alemannian monasteries may suggest an affiliation with the Germanic Alemannian or Alsatian nobility, while other sources make her the daughter of a Burgundian count and a granddaughter of Grimbert I, Count of Paris. It is not possible, however, to extrapolate any political ramifications from Charlemagne's relationship with Himiltrude. \n\nHimiltrude probably entered into a relationship with Charlemagne during the lifetime of his father, Pepin the Younger. When Charlemagne acceded to the throne in 768, Himiltrude remained unnamed in official sources – contrary to the example set by Charlemagne's mother, Bertrada of Laon. Himiltrude bore Charles a son called Pépin. Shortly after Pepin's birth, an alliance was formulated between Charlemagne and the King of the Lombards, Desiderius. To seal the alliance, it was agreed that Charlemagne should marry Desiderius' daughter (called Desiderata by modern scholars). \n\nHimiltrude was dismissed at that time and disappears from historical records. A grave excavated in the monastery of Nivelles was found to contain the corpse of a forty-year-old woman, possibly identifiable with Himiltrude. If so, Himiltrude would appear to have died long after 770, although if and when she retired to Nivelles cannot be deduced.\n\nHer son Pépin, who suffered from a spinal deformity and was called \"the Hunchback\", was eclipsed by Charlemagne's sons from his later marriage to Hildegard. Following an attempted rebellion against his father, Pepin was confined to a monastery.\n\nThe nature of Himiltrude's relationship to Charlemagne is a matter of dispute. Charlemagne's biographer Einhard calls her a \"concubine\" and Paulus Diaconus speaks of Pippin's birth \"before legal marriage\", whereas a letter by Pope Stephen III refers to Charlemagne and his brother Carloman as being already married (to Himiltrude and Gerberga), and advises them not to dismiss their wives. \n\nHistorians have interpreted the information in different ways. Some, such as Pierre Riché, follow Einhard in describing Himiltrude as a concubine. Others, Dieter Hägemann for example, consider Himiltrude a wife in the full sense. Still others subscribe to the idea that the relationship between the two was \"something more than concubinage, less than marriage\" and describe it as a Friedelehe, a supposed form of marriage unrecognized by the Church and easily dissolvable. This form of relationship is often seen in a conflict between Christian marriage and more flexible Germanic concepts.\n"}
{"id": "23315345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23315345", "title": "Ignacio Corsini", "text": "Ignacio Corsini\n\nIgnacio Corsini (February 13, 1891 – July 26, 1967) was an Italian-born Argentine folklore and tango musician.\n\nAndrés Ignacio Corsini was born in Troina, a village in the Enna Province of Sicily, in 1891. He was the illegitimate son of Socorro Salomone and a local man whose identity was never revealed publicly—save for his being a Corsini (hence the child's last name). Ms. Salomone left Italy for Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1896, and settled in the middle-class Almagro section of the city. They settled in Carlos Tejedor, then a small pampas town where Corsini would spend the remainder of his childhood, finding work as an ox cart driver and herdsman.\n\nCorsini returned in 1907 to the Almagro section of Buenos Aires, where he was influenced by folk singer José Betinotti and a circus performer, José Pacheco. Pacheco introduced him to the theatre and to his own daughter, Victoria Pacheco, whom Corsini would marry in 1911. He went on to perform in numerous theatre companies and circuses, and in 1912, he was awarded a recording contract by RCA Victor. His interpretation of traditional folklore standards earned him singing roles in numerous Argentine films in subsequent years, mostly in period pieces set during Argentina's pastoral 19th century. These included: \"Santos Vega\" (1916), \"¡Federación o muerte!\" (1917) and \"Milonguita\" (1922).\n\nHaving never attended a music conservatory, Corsini once attributed his unmistakable falsetto to his bucolic pampas upbringing, recalling that \"birds taught me the spontaneity of their singing, without witnesses and in the great scenery of nature.\" \n\nCorsini also earned renown as a tango vocalist, however. Initially avoiding the genre, he included one tango piece, \"Un lamento,\" in a 1920 album. Well received, this recording would remain his sole foray into tango until, in 1922, he was persuaded to premiere \"Patotero sentimental\" in a sainete (stage comedy), \"El bailarín del cabaret.\" Corsini secured his standing in the world of tango by popularizing Juan de Dios Filiberto's soulful milonga, \"Caminito,\" in 1927. Written as an ode to what was then an oft-used shortcut in the blue-collar La Boca section of Buenos Aires, \"Caminito\" remains one of the most recognizable Argentine songs of any genre.\n\n\"El Caballero Cantor\"—the \"gentleman singer,\" as he was known by then—Corsini was also a composer and lyricist of numerous tangos, such as, among others, \"Flor marchita,\" and \"Aquel cantor de mi pueblo\" (music by guitarist Enrique Maciel). The latter was immortalized by Corsini's one-time film co-star, Edmundo Rivero. He also composed in other genres, writing folklore pieces (such as \"Tradición gaucha\" and \"A mi palomita\"), and a waltz: \"Tristeza criolla,\" based on a poem by Julián de Charras.\n\nA 1929 songbook written as an ode to the era of 19th century strongman Juan Manuel de Rosas by poet Héctor Blomberg and guitarist Enrique Maciel featured Corsini as the lead vocalist, a performance considered by critics to have been th highlight of the album. His performance of the album's title track, \"La pulpera de Santa Lucía,\" was critical to its being aired on the radio. This return to folklore was followed by similar performances on film, including \"Rapsodia gaucha\" (1932), \"Ídolos de la radio\" (1934, memorable also for a duet between two standards of tango, Ada Falcón and Carlos Gardel), and the western movie-styled \"Fortín alto\" (1941), where he was featured with Agustín Irusta and a then-unknown Edmundo Rivero.\n\nThese successes were dealt a bitter turn by the death of his wife Victoria, on May 28, 1949, following which he retired as a performer. Corsini penned his memoirs the following year, in which he wrote that \"in her I found the great partner of all my life, who encouraged me in my uncertain hours and to whom I owe a great part of my success\" (the autobiography was never published).\n\nCorsini reappeared in 1961 for a Channel 7 special, \"Volver a vivir\" (\"To Live Again\"). This would be his last public performance, however, and on July 26, 1967, the 'gentleman singer' died at age 76.\n"}
{"id": "45654453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45654453", "title": "Irene Dölling", "text": "Irene Dölling\n\nIrene Dölling (also known as Irene Mayer-Dölling) (born 23 December 1942) is a German sociologist. She is now an Emeritus Professor in Women's studies, having retired from her full-time role at Potsdam University early in 2008. She serves on the advisory board of the feminist academic journal \"Signs\".\n\nAt the time of her retirement her colleague Regina Becker-Schmidt commended Dölling for qualities that included her \"creative obstinacy\" \"\".\n\nDölling was born during the Second World War in Leicester in England with political refugees as parents. The family were ethnic Germans as well as members of the Communist Party. They had campaigned actively against Nazism during the 1930s, and had been living in what was at the time Czechoslovakia with Czechoslovak passports. However, in 1938 Nazi Germany started a project through the use of military force to incorporate Czechoslovakia into an enlarged German state. The Döllings fled to Britain in 1939.\n\nHer father had worked in the textiles industry before the war (and would return to the trade when he was able to return to the European mainland). Her mother's work lied in the garment industry. Irene Dölling would later recall that her mother, as the eldest of six children, had been forced to cut her schooling short when her mother (Irene's grandmother) fell ill, and the eldest daughter was called upon to look after the family.\n\nDölling was not yet 3 when the war ended in May 1945. During a period of wholesale ethnic cleansing there was no longer any question of the German speaking Dölling family returning to Czechoslovakia, where they had lived until 1939. Instead, they established themselves in the Soviet occupation zone of what remained of Germany. By 1946 her father had returned to work in the textiles industry, and Irene Dölling grew up as one of two children in a family home that she later remembers as \"bookish and intellectually stimulating.\" Meanwhile, the Soviet occupation zone formally became the German Democratic Republic in October 1949. A stand-alone East German state sponsored by the Soviet Union on which its one- party constitutional arrangements were modelled. It was here that Dölling made her life until the separate East German state dissolved in 1989/90. In 1961 Dölling passed her school Abitur final exams in Berlin.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1966 she studied Library science and Philosophy at Berlin's Humboldt University. The library science represented a job ticket, but the philosophy became a lasting interest. Philosophy at this time was taught within the framework of Marxism as officially defined. After obtaining her degree she remained at the Humboldt as a research assistant and working for her doctorate which she received in 1970. Her dissertation was entitled \"On Marxist theories of the driving forces of the practical behaviours of individuals: some preconditions of socialist cultural theory and society\". Her Habilitation followed in 1976.\n\nIrene Dölling stayed at the Humboldt, subject to a couple of brief breaks, right up till 1994. In 1985 she was appointed Professor for Culture theory in the university's Cultural studies and Aesthetics Department. By this time she had already started to focus on gender relations and the position of women in East German society. The slaughter of the war had left Germany with a shortage of working age citizens which in the case of East Germany was exacerbated during the 1940/50s by the emigration of several million working-age East Germans to the west. Partly as a result of this, female participation in the work force was relatively high in the German Democratic Republic, which correlated with a commensurate increased level of economic (though not, at least at higher levels, political) status and empowerment for women. By the time Dölling's research interests came to focus on gender issues, roughly 90% of women of working age, supported by state organised child care provision, were in full-time employment. German reunification, formally enacted in 1990, threw into sharp focus a contrast with he situation in (what had till then been) West Germany where a far higher proportion of women of working age stayed at home looking after families; and if they were in paid employment, often working only part-time. Many feminist academics expressed a preference for the work/life balance on offer to women in pre-1990 East Germany, but in any case, as equalisation between the two halves of the country came about during the 1990s, there was no shortage of research topics for the academic staff and students in the Women's studies departments.\n\nIrene Dölling co-founded, with , the at the Humboldt University in on 8 December 1989. In 1990 she became the Centre's first Research Director.\n\nIn 1994 she finally moved, albeit not very far away, becoming Professor for Women's studies at the Economic and Social Sciences faculty at the University of Potsdam. She remained here till her retirement in 2008. In addition to her teaching, she continued to publish her own work as well as serving on the scientific advisory boards of various academic journals in Germany and internationally.\n"}
{"id": "6077722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6077722", "title": "James Leander Cathcart", "text": "James Leander Cathcart\n\nJames Leander Cathcart (1 June 1767 – 6 October 1843) was a diplomat, slave, and sailor. He is notable for his narrative as a slave in Algiers for eleven years.\n\nCathcart was born in Mount Murragh, County Westmeath, Ireland and emigrated to the North American colonies at eight years of age, under the care of a relative, Captain John Cathcart. He joined the American Revolution and at the age of twelve served on a privateer. Three years later, as a midshipman on \"The Confederacy\", he was captured by the British and imprisoned on the prisoner ships, \"The Good Hope\" and from which he escaped in 1782. He became fluent in Spanish and French, which he learned from fellow prisoners during his three-year internment.\n\nIn 1785 Barbary pirates captured the American merchant ship \"The Maria Boston\", on its way to Cadiz carrying furs, lumber, and dried codfish. They took Cathcart and twenty other sailors as slaves. During the eleven years of his slavery in Algiers Cathcart managed by means of good fortune, cleverness, and bribery to improve his circumstances, eventually becoming chief clerk to the Dey. In this position, he acted as a mediator between the Dey and Joseph Donaldson, Jr. agent for Colonel David Humphreys, the U.S. Minister to Portugal, that resulted in The Treaty of Algiers of 1796 and made possible his freedom.\n\nCathcart, for the first several years of his captivity, endured the same terrible living conditions as his fellow slaves. One of a few handpicked by the Dey, Cathcart’s first duties were to work in the Dey’s palace garden caring for the lions, tigers, and antelopes. Although his assigned duties were relatively light, his masters provided scant food and administered several beatings, called bastinado, where in one instance Cathcart lost several of his toenails.\n\nAs his fortunes and positions in Algiers improved, Cathcart acquired additional skills that he used later as a diplomat. He found opportunities to demonstrate his concern for his fellow prisoners. During his slavery he became conversant in Arabic and Turkish. When Cathcart became clerk of the prison, he was able to buy several taverns, a house with servants, and procure more food for his fellow crew members. After the Treaty of Algiers freed them, Cathcart had the means to purchase a ship, which he sailed to Philadelphia in 1796 with twelve surviving members of the original crew.\n\nOn 5 June 1798 he married Philadelphia belle Jane Bancker Woodside, and they had twelve children. His daughter JB Newkirk put together Cathcart’s narrative and published it in 1899, 56 years after his death, under the title of \"The Captives, Eleven Years a Prisoner in Algiers\".\n\nHe returned to the Barbary Coast in December 1798, as special agent to William Eaton. In 1802, he was appointed US Consul to Tunis and Tripoli. He participated in the negotiation of additional treaties with Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli. He served as Consul-General for the United States in Cádiz from 1807–17, where he operated a merchant business with Richard Worsam Meade. Cathcart served in the diplomatic corps for the United States during the administrations of John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and James Madison.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54978846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54978846", "title": "James Marchant", "text": "James Marchant\n\nRev Sir James Marchant FRSE FLS FRAS KBE LLD (1867-1956) was a British eugenicist, social reformer and author. He was leader of the National Vigilance Association, concerned with social morality, and also the Director of the National Council of Public Morals. He epitomises the view of the priggish Victorian attitude to sex and morality.\n\nHe was born in London on 18 December 1867.\n\nIn 1917 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Sir Thomas Clouston, Sir Alexander Russell Simpson, John Arthur Thomson and John William Ballantyne. He was created a Knight of the Order of the British Empire by King George V for his work on birth-rate and contraception in 1921, a rare accolade for a clergyman.\n\nHe died in Sherborne on 20 May 1956.\n\nIn 1895 he married Eleanor Jane Gordon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2654838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2654838", "title": "Jancis Robinson", "text": "Jancis Robinson\n\nJancis Mary Robinson (born 22 April 1950) is a British wine critic, journalist and wine writer. She currently writes a weekly column for the \"Financial Times\", and writes for her website JancisRobinson.com, updated daily. She also provides advice for the wine cellar of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nRobinson was born in Cumbria, studied mathematics and philosophy at St Anne's College, University of Oxford, and worked for a travel company after leaving university. \n\nRobinson started her wine writing career on 1 December 1975 when she became assistant editor for the trade magazine \"Wine & Spirit\". In 1984, she became the first person outside the wine trade to become a Master of Wine. From 1995 until she resigned in 2010 she served as British Airways' wine consultant, and supervised the BA Concorde cellar luxury selection.\n\nAs a wine writer, she has become one of the world's leading writers of educational and encyclopedic material on wine and was described by Decanter magazine as 'the most respected wine critic and journalist in the world'. \"The Oxford Companion to Wine\", edited by Robinson, is widely considered to be the most comprehensive wine encyclopedia in the world. The first edition was published in 1994, and took five years to write after she was signed on as editor in 1988. In addition, \"The World Atlas of Wine\" by Hugh Johnson and Robinson is one of the world's leading wine atlases.\n\nIn 1995, Jancis Robinson appeared in a 10-episode wine course on BBC 2 television. This series was later reissued on DVD. A book titled \"Jancis Robinson's Wine Course\" was written to accompany the series and has gone through several editions. In 2015 she launched an online wine course, Mastering Wine - Shortcuts to Success, on www.udemy.com.\n\nShe has an honorary doctorate from the Open University, and was made an OBE in 2003, among numerous other awards for her writing. Her accolades include multiple Glenfiddich Awards and André Simon Memorial Awards, and a selection as the \"Decanter\" \"1999 Woman of the Year\". In 2016, she was made an Officier de l'Ordre du Mérite Agricole, was given the German VDP association's highest honour and won for fourth James Beard Award in the US.\n\nFollowing a difference of opinion with Robert Parker over the 2003 vintage of Château Pavie, the following media coverage frequently described a \"war of words\" between the two critics. Less dramatic than the predominant press view, Robinson and Parker currently have a cordial relationship.\n\nIn 2012, Allen Lane (Penguin) in the UK and Ecco in the US published a 1,200-page book called \"Wine Grapes\" co-authored by Robinson with Julia Harding MW and Jose Vouillamoz which won every major wine book award. The book provides comprehensive details on 1,368 vine varieties and won six major wine book awards.\n\nRobinson is married to the food writer Nick Lander, author of \"The Art of the Restaurateur\"; they have three children, Julia, William and Rose.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8127304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8127304", "title": "Jericho Rosales", "text": "Jericho Rosales\n\nJericho \"Echo\" Vibar Rosales (born September 22, 1979) is an entertainer from the Philippines. \n\nPrimarily a film and television actor, \"Echo\" as is he known by his friends and fans, began his career by winning the Mr. Pogi (\"Handsome\") talent search on the noontime variety television show \"Eat Bulaga!\" His outstanding talent has secured an epic rise and an impressive portfolio of roles both on TV and in film, spanning over 20 years and a variety of genres, warranting the monicker, \"Asia's Prince of Dramas.\" \n\nHe, likewise, is a popular commercial endorser and brand advocate of various leading companies in the Philippines. \n\nWhen not in front of the camera, Rosales, among many other things, is a singer, songwriter, and performer with three solo albums to his credit. \n\nCurrently he stars as Lino Bartolome in the hit ABS-CBN primetime soap, \"Halik\", alongside Yam Concepcion, Sam Milby, and Yen Santos.\n\nHe is married to British-Filipina digital creative Kim Jones.\n\nAfter winning the Mr. Pogi contest in \"Eat Bulaga\", Rosales became a regular host and performer in the variety show. \n\nHis career took off when he was cast opposite actress Angelika dela Cruz in the top-rating primetime drama series \"Esperanza,\" and in the teen horror flick \"Oka Tokat\"\".\" Their tandem made its way to the big screen through the blockbuster horror movie \"Magandang Hatinggabi\". But their tandem was cut short when Dela Cruz decided to transfer to ABS CBN's rival network, GMA.\n\nRosales has garnered international attention in the Asian, African, and Latin American television markets since his drama serious have been distributed in these regions. In countries such as Malaysia, China, Ghana, Cambodia, Peru, Colombia, and many others, for his primetime soaps \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" (2000-2002), \"Sana'y Wala Nang Wakas\" (2003-2004) and \"Dahil May Isang Ikaw\" (2009-2010), all co-starring Kristine Hermosa. Since its original release, \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" has aired in over 20 foreign territories, with the Cambodian Television Network ordering a local remake in 2013. In Peru, Rosales is known for his role in the series \"Bridges of Love (\"),\" the first Filipino drama to air in the country and the Latin American market. Similarly, \"The Legal Wife\" (2014)\",\" which also stars Maja Salvador and Angel Locsin, have gained much popularity in the African and Balkan regions. \n\nIn 2006 he portrayed legendary Filipino boxing champion Manny Pacquiao in \",\" and bagged two Best Actor trophies for his work. He repeated this feat in 2008, when he won two more Best Actor awards for his role in the classic film \"Baler\", opposite Anne Curtis. \n\nIn 2012, Rosales played the lead role in \"Alagwa (Breakaway,\" internationally), for which he won the which won Best Actor Trophy at the 36th Gawad Urian Awards, one of the Philippines' most respected award-giving bodies. \"Alagwa\" garnered several accolades in film festivals around the world, most notably the Most Outstanding Achievement in Film Acting Award at the 2013 Newport Beach Film Festival in California; the Grand Jury Award - Best Narrative Feature in the 3rd Guam International Film Festival; Best Narrative in the Third World Independent Film Festival; and the First ASEAN International Film Festival.\n\nThe following years found him in a string of Metro Manila Film Festival entries. In 2016, Rosales played Philippine national hero Jose Rizal in , which starred Robin Padilla as the eponymous character. His succeeding films were comedies, with rom-com \"#WalangForever\" in 2015, starring opposite Jennylyn Mercado; \"\" in 2016 \"-\" sequel to Quantum Film's satirical 2011 hit starring Eugene Domingo; and then played opposite Bela Padilla in 2017's \"Luck At First Sight.\"\n\nIn late 2017, he played Diego in surf romance film \"Siargao\", directed by Paul Soriano. Set in the eponymous Philippine island, he co-stars Erich Gonzales and Jasmine Curtis-Smith.\n\nOutside of film, Rosales has forged a music career which features his strengths as a lyricist, songwriter, and singer. He has released three full-length albums to his credit, and several music awards including \"Song of the Year Award\" for \"Pusong Ligaw.\" Other songs he has produced and co-written became theme songs of several of his television shows, including \"Green Rose, Dahil sa Pag-Ibig (Because of Love)\" and \"I Dare You.\"\n\nRosales was born in Quezon City, but was raised in Bula, Camarines Sur where he learned to speak Rinconada Bikol. \n\nIn 2000, Rosales was linked to former model Kai Palomares, with whom he has a son, Santino \"Saint\" Palomares Rosales. \n\nHe married Kim Jones in a beach wedding ceremony in Boracay on May 1, 2014.\n\nTelevision Shows\n\nDuring February 2014, Rosales became actively involved in a campaign to Free Mali, the lonely elephant who has been living in a small, concrete enclosure at the Manila Zoo for more that 35 years. The campaign is led by animal rights group PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and works toward having Mali transferred to the Boon Lott's Sanctuary in Thailand, where she will be given all of the care and natural surroundings that the Manila Zoo cannot provide her with. Rosales showed his support by posing for a photograph] holding up a sign that reads \"JERICHO ROSALES WANTS MALI FREED\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "365574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365574", "title": "John Titor", "text": "John Titor\n\nJohn Titor is a name used on several bulletin boards during 2000 and 2001 by a poster claiming to be an American military time traveler from 2036. Titor made numerous vague and specific predictions regarding calamitous events in 2004 and beyond, including a nuclear war, none of which came true. Subsequent closer examination of Titor's assertions provoked widespread skepticism. Inconsistencies in his explanations, the uniform inaccuracy of his predictions, and a private investigator's findings all led to the general impression that the entire episode was an elaborate hoax. A 2009 investigation concluded that Titor was likely the creation of Larry Haber, a Florida entertainment lawyer, along with his brother Morey, a computer scientist.\n\nThe first posts using John Titor's military symbol appeared on the \"Time Travel Institute\" forums on November 2, 2000, under the name \"TimeTravel_0\". At that time the name \"John Titor\" was not being used. The posts discussed time travel in general, the first one being the \"six parts\" description of what a time machine would need to have to work (see below) and responses to questions about how such a machine would work. Early messages tended to be short. A second thread was also made due to shortcomings in the forum software at the time.\n\nThe name \"John Titor\" was not introduced until January 2001, when TimeTravel_0 began posting at the Art Bell BBS Forums (which required a name or pseudonym for every account). The Titor posts ended in late March 2001.\n\nAround 2003, various websites reproduced Titor's posts, re-arranging them into narratives. Not all refer to the original dates posted.\nIn his online postings, Titor claimed to be an American soldier from 2036, based in Tampa, Florida. He was assigned to a governmental time-travel project, and sent back to 1975 to retrieve an IBM 5100 computer, which he said was needed to debug various legacy computer programs in 2036 – a possible reference to the UNIX year 2038 problem. The IBM 5100 runs the APL and BASIC programming languages.\n\nTitor said he had been selected for this mission specifically, given that his paternal grandfather was directly involved with the assembly and programming of the 5100. In support of this, he described unpublicized features of the 5100, leading to assumptions that a computer scientist was behind the postings. Titor claimed to be on a stopover in the year 2000 for \"personal reasons\", to collect pictures lost in the (future) civil war and to visit his family, of whom he spoke often.\n\nTitor also said he had been, for a few months, trying to alert anyone that would listen about the threat of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease spread through beef products and about the possibility of civil war within the United States. When questioned about them by an online subscriber, Titor also expressed an interest in mysteries such as UFOs, which remained unexplained in his time. Titor suggested that UFOs and extraterrestrials might be travelers from much further into the future than his own time, with superior time machines.\n\nTitor described his time machine on several occasions. In an early post, he described it as a \"stationary mass, temporal displacement unit powered by two top-spin, dual positive singularities\", producing a \"standard off-set Tipler sinusoid\".\n\nThe earliest post was more explicit, saying it contained the following:\n\nAccording to the posts, the device was installed in the rear of a 1967 Chevrolet Corvette convertible and later mentioned a 1987 truck having four-wheel drive.\n\nTitor shared several scans of the manual of a \"C204 Time Displacement Unit\" with diagrams and schematics and posted some photographs of the device installed in the car.\n\nAlthough invoking the , whereby events from his timeline may differ from our own, Titor also expressed assurance that the differences were minimal. As such, his descriptions have been interpreted as predictions and compared with historical events since 2001.\n\nThe most immediate of Titor's predictions was of an upcoming civil war in the United States having to do with \"order and rights\".<ref name=\"John Titor, 2/27/01 17:25\">John Titor, 2/27/01 17:25</ref> He described it as beginning in 2004,<ref name=\"John Titor, 2/1/01 8:36\">John Titor, 2/1/01 8:36</ref> with civil unrest surrounding the presidential election of that year. This civil conflict that he characterized as \"having a Waco type event every month that steadily gets worse\" would be \"pretty much at everyone's doorstep\" and erupt by 2008.\n\nAs a result of the war, the United States would split into five regions based on various factors and differing military objectives. This civil war, according to Titor, would end in 2015 with a brief but intense World War III.\n\nTitor refers to the exchange as \"N Day\". Washington, D.C. and Jacksonville, Florida are specifically mentioned as being hit. After the war, Omaha, Nebraska would be the new U.S. capital. Titor was vague as to the exact motivations and causes for World War III. At one point, he characterized the hostilities as being led by \"border clashes and overpopulation\". He also pointed to the contemporary conflict between Arabs and Israel as not a cause, but rather a milestone that precedes a World War III.\n\nTitor claimed that as a 13-year-old in 2011, he joined the Fighting Diamondbacks, a shotgun infantry unit in Florida, for at least four years. In other posts, he described himself as hiding from the war.\n\nTitor claimed that the \"Everett–Wheeler model of quantum physics\", better known as the many-worlds interpretation, was correct. According to Titor, this caused a new timestream to form because of his time travel. This gives his predictions the ability to stand up to scrutiny when they fail to pass, since believers can say that the events were averted by Titor's postings.\n\n\"The New Republic\" called Titor the most famous of several internet forum posters who claimed to be time travelers.\n\nAn Italian television program, \"Voyager – Ai confini della conoscenza\", aired the results of an investigation of John Titor on May 19, 2008. Private investigator Mike Lynch found no registry evidence, past or present, of any individual named John Titor. He did, however, identify the John Titor Foundation, a for-profit company formed on September 16, 2003, with no office or address other than a rented post box in Kissimmee, Florida. An IP address connected with Titor also geolocated to Kissimmee.\n\nIn 2009, a report by John Hughston of the Hoax Hunter website named Larry Haber, a Florida entertainment lawyer, as the CEO of the foundation. Lynch concluded that Haber and his brother Morey Haber, a computer scientist, were very likely the men behind John Titor, whom they actually introduced in 1998, accompanied by different predictions, including chaos due to the Y2K \"bug\". John Hughston also reported that John Titor is a registered trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30282662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30282662", "title": "Khayu", "text": "Khayu\n\nKhayu is mentioned in the Palermo Stone as a Predynastic Egyptian king who ruled in Lower Egypt. As there is no other evidence of such ruler, he may be a mythical king preserved through oral tradition, or may even be completely fictitious.\n"}
{"id": "39708011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39708011", "title": "Khoid", "text": "Khoid\n\nThe Khoyd, Qoyid (also Khoid or Khoit) (Northern ones/people) people are an Oirat. Once one of largest tribes of the Oyrads.\nIn XIII c. Khoyd were actually Oyrads. Later to Oyrad joined Choros, Torguud and Khoshuud. Together they made up Dörben Oyirad union\n\n"}
{"id": "57710623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57710623", "title": "List of Big Brother 20 houseguests (U.S.)", "text": "List of Big Brother 20 houseguests (U.S.)\n\nCBS released the names of the sixteen new contestants on \"Big Brother 20\" on June 18, 2018. \n\nAngela Logan Rummans (born March 23, 1992), 26, is a fitness model from Playa Vista, California. Originally from Hilton Head, South Carolina, she describes herself as spontaneous, scheming, and headstrong, and enjoys beach volleyball, spearfishing, and oil painting. On Day 44, Angela won HOH. On Day 45, Angela nominated Rockstar and Scottie for eviction. On Day 46, Angela won the POV. On Day 48, Angela chose to use the POV on Tyler to remove him from the block and she named Bayleigh as the replacement nominee. On Day 52, Angela was nominated alongside Kaycee by Haleigh, the HOH. On Day 55, Tyler used the Veto to remove Angela from the block in which Haleigh, the HOH, named Kaycee as the replacement nominee in Angela's place. On Day 65, Angela won her second HOH of the season, becoming the first houseguest to win two HOH competitions this season. On Day 66, she nominated Faysal and Haleigh for eviction. On Day 86, She won her second POV, she chose to remove JC from eviction. On Day 86, she won her third HOH. On Day 87, she nominated JC and Sam for eviction.On Day 91, she was nominated by JC alongside Tyler for eviction. She has shown feelings for and eventually got into a showmance with Tyler. On Day 92, Angela was evicted by Kaycee (the sole voting Houseguest in this particular eviction), becoming the eighth member of the jury, and the final Houseguest to be evicted prior to finale night. Angela ultimately voted for Tyler to win Big Brother.\n\nBoth Angela and her showmance partner and current boyfriend Tyler have continued their romantic relationship outside of the Big Brother house. On October 1, 2018, Angela announced on her Instagram that both she and Tyler have officially begun living together. They have both been active on social media post-Big Brother.\n\nBayleigh Amethyst Dayton (born May 25, 1993), 25, is a flight attendant from Atlanta, Georgia. Originally from Lee's Summit, Missouri, she describes herself as engulfing, adventurous, and unpredictable, and enjoys yoga, binge-watching random TV shows and Marvel movies, and traveling. She was the first African-American woman to become Miss Missouri USA and placed in the top ten and won Miss Congeniality at Miss USA 2017. In Week 3, Bayleigh won the Identity Theft power app as a reward for being the Top Trending HouseGuest that week. On Day 37, Bayleigh won HOH. On Day 38, she nominated Rachel and Brett for eviction. On Day 48, Angela named Bayleigh as the replacement nominee after using the POV to remove Tyler from the block. On Day 51, by the vote of 6-1, Bayleigh became the sixth houseguest evicted and become the first member of the Jury. On Day 72, she competed against Rockstar, Scottie and Faysal in the Battle Back competition, in which the winner would re-enter the House with a second shot to win the game. She was ultimately unsuccessful in this bid, and remained on the jury. Bayleigh voted for Kaycee to win. \n\nAfter she cast her vote in the finale, Bayleigh received a marriage proposal by Swaggy C, which she accepted. A few days after the finale, Bayleigh revealed on YouTube that she had gotten pregnant with Swaggy C's baby during their time together in the Big Brother house, but that she went on to experience a miscarriage in the jury house.\n\nBrett William Robinson (born January 15, 1993), 25, is a cybersecurity engineer from Charlestown, Massachusetts. Originally from Oakdale, Connecticut, he describes himself as vehement, riveting, and trophy, and enjoys working out, home repair, and snowboarding. On Day 24, he was nominated for eviction alongside Winston by Scottie. On Day 38, Brett was nominated alongside Rachel by Bayleigh (the HOH). On Day 59, he was nominated for eviction alongside Scottie by Faysal. He later won the POV and subsequently vetoed himself off of the block, in which Kaycee was nominated by Faysal in Brett's place. On Day 86, Angela used the Veto on JC and removed him from the block in which Tyler, the HOH, put Brett up as the replacement nominee. Brett was evicted with a 3-0 vote and became the sixth member of the Jury. Brett voted for Tyler to win Big Brother. As the America's Favorite Houseguest award was being announced, he was revealed to be one of the top three votegetters, but lost the contest to Tyler.\n\nFaysal Shawn \"Fessy\" Shafaat (born October 17, 1991), 26, is a substitute teacher from Orlando, Florida. He describes himself as a joker, hilarious, and confident, and enjoys music, food, and working out or playing sports. On Day 10, Faysal won the first POV of the season, but ultimately opted against using the POV. In Week One, he was deemed to be the least trending Houseguest, and was thus required to choose a Crap App, in which he selected Hamazon. On Day 31, Faysal won his second POV of the season. He took Haleigh off of the block, and HOH Sam nominated Rockstar in her place. On Day 58, he won HOH, and on the following day (Day 59), nominated Brett and Scottie to be marked for eviction. Upon Brett winning the POV and removing himself from the block, Faysal opted to place Kaycee up as the replacement nominee. On Day 66, Faysal was nominated alongside Haleigh by Angela, the HOH. On Day 72, he was evicted from the Big Brother house on a 4-1 vote, with only Sam voting to evict Haleigh. Faysal then competed in the Battle Back competition, in which he was defeated alongside Bayleigh and Rockstar by Scottie. At the time of eviction, he became the fourth member of the jury, but after the Battle Back competition, he became the third member of the jury by virtue of Scottie re-entering the House. Faysal voted for Kaycee to win Big Brother. During the finale he confirmed that himself and fellow houseguest Haleigh were in a relationship.\n\nHaleigh Falyn Broucher (born January 23, 1997), 21, is a college student from College Station, Texas. Originally from Village Mills, she describes herself as classic, cautious, and contagious, and enjoys working out, traveling, and taking a good, long nap. She is the youngest houseguest this season. In Week Three, she was deemed to be the least trending houseguest, and was required to select a Crap App, choosing \"Read It!\" She was nominated for eviction by Sam on Day 31, alongside Kaitlyn. However when Faysal won the POV, he took her off of the block, and HOH Sam nominated Rockstar in her place. On Week Six, she won the H@cker Competition and was required to choose a Houseguest of her choice to replace someone on the chopping block. She chose Tyler to go on the block and saved Scottie. She also chose Kaycee to play in the Veto competition. On Day 51, Haleigh won the Head of Household competition. On Day 52, she nominated Angela and Kaycee. On Day 55, Haleigh named Kaycee as the replacement nominee after Tyler used the Veto on Angela. On Day 66, Haleigh was nominated alongside Faysal by Angela, the HOH. On Day 73, Haleigh was nominated alongside Scottie for eviction by Tyler, the HOH. On Day 80, Haleigh was nominated alongside Sam by Kaycee, the HOH. On Day 86, Haleigh was evicted by a 4-0 vote and became the fifth member of the jury. Haleigh voted for Tyler to win Big Brother, being the only member of her alliance in Jury to vote in his favor. As the award for America's Favorite Houseguest was announced, it was revealed that Haleigh finished in the top three in votes received for the award, but lost the contest to Tyler.\n\nJoseph Charles \"JC\" Mounduix (born February 6, 1993), 25, is a professional dancer from West Hollywood, California. Raised in Miami, Florida, he describes himself as outgoing, honest, and eccentric, and enjoys going to the gym, watching movies, and going to theme parks. On Day 86, JC was nominated alongside Sam by Tyler, the HOH during the second portion of the Double Eviction (JC's nomination ensured that all Houseguests this season have since been on the block at one point or another in the season). JC was saved from eviction by Angela using the Power of Veto, in which Brett went up in his place and was evicted. On day 91, JC won the Head of Household competition and nominated Tyler and Angela for eviction. On Day 99, he was evicted by Kaycee (the Final HOH casts the final vote to evict), finishing in third place and became the ninth and final member of the Jury. JC voted for Tyler to win Big Brother.\n\nKaitlyn Sara Herman (born April 24, 1994), 24, is a life coach from Encino, California. Originally from Plainview, New York, she describes herself as personable, intuitive, and dramatic, and enjoys taking Pure Barre classes, meditation, and watching reality television. On Day 16, Kaitlyn won HOH. On Day 17, she nominated Scottie and Winston for eviction. On Day 20, Kaitlyn named Swaggy C as the replacement nominee after POV winner Tyler removed Scottie from the block. On Day 31, she was nominated for eviction (alongside Haleigh) by Sam (the HOH). On Day 37, Kaitlyn was evicted by a vote of 9-1. Due to Sam's B.B. Power App called Bonus Life, she was given the chance to return to the game. However, she failed to complete the task and her eviction was sealed.\n\nKaycee Noelle Clark (born December 26, 1987), 30, is a pro-football player for the San Diego Surge and is from Tempe, Arizona. Originally from San Diego, California, she describes herself as fun, positive, and athletic, and enjoys playing sports, working out, and personal development. On Day 52, Kaycee was nominated alongside Angela by Haleigh, the HOH. On the same day, she won the H@cker Competition. She removed herself from the block and chose Rockstar as the replacement. On Day 53, she chose Tyler to play in the Veto competition. When Tyler won the Veto he used it on Angela, then Haleigh nominated Kaycee again as the replacement nominee. She was nominated again the following week as a replacement nominee when Brett won Veto and used it upon himself, landing on the block against Scottie. On Day 67, Kaycee won the Veto. On Day 69, Kaycee decided to not use the veto, leaving Angela's nominations of Faysal and Haleigh intact. On Day 76, Kaycee chose not to use the Veto, keeping Tyler’s nominations of Scottie and Haleigh intact. On Day 79, Kaycee won HOH. On Day 80, Kaycee nominated Haleigh and Sam. During the same week, Kaycee won her third consecutive Power of Veto, tying the all-time consecutive veto wins record. She ultimately opted not to use the Veto, leaving Haleigh and Sam to face that weeks eviction vote (which would turn out to be the first eviction of that evening's Double Eviction). Kaycee won her fourth veto during Week 12, and again opted not to use the veto, leaving Angela's (the week's HOH) nominations of JC and Sam intact. On Day 91, Kaycee won her fifth veto of the season (which also happened to be the final Power of Veto competition for the summer), tying the all time record of veto wins in a season. As she was the sole houseguest not on the block or HOH that week, the Veto was not used. Kaycee thus held the balance of power that week as she held the sole vote to evict, opting to evict Angela. On Day 99, Kaycee won the Final HOH and chose to evict JC, taking Tyler to the Final 2. Kaycee won Big Brother 20 by a vote of 5-4 over Tyler, and became the first openly lesbian winner of Big Brother.\n\nRachel Elizabeth Swindler (born July 15, 1988), 29, is an entertainer from Las Vegas, Nevada. Originally from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, she describes herself as sarcastic, loyal, and passionate, and enjoys live music, attending sporting events, and working out. In Week Two, Rachel was deemed to be the least trending houseguest, and thus had to select a Crap App, in which she opted for \"Yell!\" On Day 38, Rachel was nominated for eviction alongside Brett by Bayleigh. On Day 44, Rachel was evicted by a 5-4 vote and became the fifth houseguest evicted from the game, and the final houseguest to be voted out prior to the beginning of the Jury stage.\n\nAngela Brooke \"Angie\" Lantry (born June 22, 1983), 34, is a stay-at-home mom from Columbia, Maryland. Thoroughout the season, she was referred to by her nickname Rockstar to avoid confusion with fellow HouseGuest Angela Rummans. She describes herself as eclectic, entertaining, and magical, and enjoys reading, writing, and dancing under the moonlight around a fire to fierce drum beats. She is a Pagan witch. She got annoyed when Brett came after her on her daughter's birthday. On Day 34, Sam, the HOH, put Rockstar up as the replacement nominee after POV winner Faysal took Haleigh off the block. On Day 45, Rockstar was nominated alongside Scottie for eviction. On Day 52 Rockstar was nominated by the hacker, Kaycee for eviction. On Day 58 she was evicted by a vote of 5-1, making her the seventh person to be evicted from the big brother house and the second member of the jury. On Day 72, she competed against Bayleigh, Scottie and Faysal in the Battle Back competition for the opportunity to re-enter the House for a second shot to win the game. She ultimately was unsuccessful in the competition, and remained on the jury. Rockstar cast her vote for Kaycee to win Big Brother.\n\nSamantha Marie \"Sam\" Bledsoe (born June 7, 1991), 27, is a welder from Stuarts Draft, Virginia. She describes herself as multifaceted, charming, and charismatic, and enjoys making, building and creating things, fishing, swimming, kayaking, and dancing. She was nominated alongside Steve for eviction by HOH Tyler. She won the first B.B. App power called Bonus Life. On Day 30, she won her first Head of Household competition, nominating Kaitlyn and Haleigh for eviction on Day 31. After Faysal won POV and saved Haleigh, she nominated Rockstar as the replacement nominee. On Day 80, Sam was nominated for eviction alongside Haleigh by HOH Kaycee. On Day 86, Sam was nominated alongside JC by Tyler, the HOH, and survived eviction against Brett in the double eviction later that day. She was nominated again by Angela the following week alonside JC, and was evicted on Day 91 by a 2-0 vote, becoming the seventh member of the Jury of Nine. She cast her jury vote for Kaycee to win.\n\nScott Edward \"Scottie\" Salton (born January 10, 1992), 26, is a shipping manager from Chicago, Illinois. Originally from Shorewood, he describes himself as energetic, odd, and persistent, and enjoys disc golf, CrossFit, and watching movies. On Day 17, Scottie was nominated for eviction alongside Winston by HOH Kaitlyn. On Day 20, POV winner Tyler removed Scottie from the block with Kaitlyn naming Swaggy C as a replacement nominee. On Day 23, Scottie won HOH. He nominated Brett and Winston for eviction on Day 24. On Day 25, Scottie won the POV, and chose not to use the POV on Day 27, leaving his original nominations of Brett and Winston intact. On Day 59, he was nominated alongside Brett by the HOH of the week, Faysal. On Day 65, Scottie was evicted by a 6-0 vote and became the third member of the Jury.\n\nOn Day 72, after winning the Jury Battle Back, Scottie returned to the game. On Day 73, Scottie was nominated alongside Haleigh for eviction by Tyler, the HOH. On Day 79, Scottie was evicted by a 5-0 vote and became the fourth member of the Jury. Scottie cast his vote for Kaycee to win Big Brother.\n\nStephen Russell \"Steve\" Arienta (born May 2, 1978), 40, is a former undercover cop from Wanaque, New Jersey. Originally from Parsippany, he describes himself as stubborn, competitive, and funny, and enjoys motorcycle riding, fishing, and playing golf. He is the oldest houseguest this season. Steve was nominated alongside Sam by HOH Tyler. On Day 16, he was evicted by a vote of 7-6.\n\nChristopher Jordan \"Chris\" Williams (born February 17, 1995), 23, is a day trader from Bridgeport, Connecticut. Throughout his time in the house, he went by the name Swaggy C and also brought a large amount of T-shirts printed with the aforementioned moniker. He describes himself as outspoken, rebellious, and analytical, and enjoys playing basketball, working out, traveling, and entertaining people on his Snapchat. On Day 22, Chris was the replacement nominee alongside Winston by HOH Kaitlyn after POV holder Tyler chose to take Scottie off the block. On Day 23, by the vote of 8-4, Chris became the second houseguest evicted from the \"Big Brother\" house. Shortly after the Jury voted for the winner of Big Brother, Swaggy C crossed the stage to the Jury to Bayleigh and after a short speech, he proposed to Bayleigh. His proposal was accepted, and the two became engaged.\n\nTyler Ross Crispen (born February 17, 1995), 23, is a lifeguard from Hilton Head, South Carolina. Originally from Rossford, Ohio, he describes himself as resilient, charismatic, and questionable, and enjoys working out, going to the beach, and surfing. He is the youngest male houseguest this season. On Day 3, Tyler became the first HOH of the season. He nominated Sam and Steve for eviction. On Day 18, Tyler won POV. On Day 22, Tyler decided to use the POV to take Scottie off the block with HOH Kaitlyn nominating Swaggy C as the replacement nominee in Scottie's place. In Week 2, Tyler won the second B.B. App Power called The Cloud. The Cloud gives Tyler the power to be immune from nominations during either a nomination ceremony or a POV ceremony and he has eight weeks to exercise the power. On Day 39, Tyler won his second POV. On Day 41, he chose not use the POV, keeping Bayliegh's nominations of Brett and Rachel intact. On Day 45, Tyler was nominated next to Rockstar after Haleigh, who won the H@cker Competition, removed Scottie from the block and replaced him with Tyler. On Day 48, Angela used the POV on Tyler and removed him from the block, replacing his nomination spot with Bayleigh. On Day 53, Tyler won the POV, his second one of the season. On Day 55, Tyler used the POV to remove Angela from the block and Haleigh (the HOH) named Kaycee as the replacement nominee. On Day 72, Tyler won his second HOH. On Day 73, he nominated Scottie and Haleigh for eviction. His nominations remained intact as Kaycee opted not to use the veto. On Day 86, he won HOH for the third time, becoming the first houseguest this season to notch three HOH wins. As his third HOH was the second part of the Double Eviction, he shortly thereafter nominated JC and Sam for eviction. Tyler's nominations did change as Angela won and used the Power of Veto to remove JC from the block and Tyler then named Brett as the replacement nominee. On Day 91, Tyler was nominated for eviction (alongside Angela) by the HOH, JC. On Day 93, Tyler won Part 1 of the final HOH contest. Tyler lost by a lot of 5-4 to Kaycee, making him the runner up of the season. He won the America's Favorite Houseguest prize and was awarded $25,000.\n\nBoth Tyler and his showmance partner and current girlfriend Angela have continued their relationship outside of the Big Brother house. On October 1, 2018, Angela announced on her instagram that both her and Tyler have begun living together. Both have become active on social media after the show.\n\nPrior to appearing on \"Big Brother\", Crispen had been a contestant on the second episode of \"\", a CBS obstacle course game show that was taped back in May 2018. The episode aired in July 2018, while Crispen was still in the Big Brother house.\n\nWinston Howard Hines (born February 13, 1990), 28, is a medical sales representative from Bowling Green, Kentucky. Originally from Somerset, he describes himself as active, ambitious, and passionate, and enjoys hiking, long walks or driving with his dog, working out, and watching movies. On Day 17, Winston was nominated alongside Scottie by HOH Kaitlyn. He was nominated a second time for eviction on Day 24 by Scottie, this time alongside Brett. On Day 30, Winston was evicted by a vote of 6-5, becoming the third houseguest to be evicted from the Big Brother house. He was the first houseguest to be nominated twice this season.\n"}
{"id": "3946873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946873", "title": "List of evolutionary psychologists", "text": "List of evolutionary psychologists\n\nThe following is a list of evolutionary psychologists or prominent contributors to the field of evolutionary psychology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21369760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21369760", "title": "List of orphans and foundlings", "text": "List of orphans and foundlings\n\nNotable orphans and foundlings include world leaders, celebrated writers, entertainment greats, figures in science and business, as well as innumerable fictional characters in literature and comics. While the exact definition of orphan varies, one legal definition is a child bereft through \"death or disappearance of, abandonment or desertion by, or separation or loss from, both parents\". According to the United Nations, the definition of an orphan is anyone that loses one parent, either through death or abandonment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also \"\n\n\n\nSee also for lists of notable people who have been adopted (including by step-parents): many adoptees are neither orphans nor foundlings.\n"}
{"id": "43822421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43822421", "title": "Lock Yue Chew", "text": "Lock Yue Chew\n\nLock Yue Chew is an associate professor in the School of Physical & Mathematical Sciences, Nanyang Technological University\n. He works in Complex Systems, General Relativity, Quantum Chaos, Statistical and Nonlinear Physics, and has published several scientific papers. In 2004 he got his PhD in Physics from the National University of Singapore (N.U.S). He also hold a Master of Science Degree from the University of Southern California.\nDuring 1991–1992 period, he had worked as a communications engineer in Singapore Airlines Limited. After that, he became the senior member of the technical staff at DSO National Laboratories and later he became and adjunct assistant professor there. Then in 2005 he moved to Nanyang Technological University as an assistant professor. He is collaborating with many international research groups, he had coauthored some of the articles with M.I.T professor Kerson Huang. He has co-authored several articles together with M. A. F. Sanjuán of the Rey Juan Carlos University. He has also co-authored an article in Nature: Scientific Reports on the topic of the short-term forecasting of Taiwanese earthquakes, using a Fusion-Fission processes model.\n\nChew gave a TEDx talk in Nanyang Technological University on \"The rationality of luck – chaos, randomness and information\". He had also appeared in the Nanyang Technological University video on the occasion of the Nanyang Award for Excellence in Teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47458792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47458792", "title": "Lyle Benjamin Borst", "text": "Lyle Benjamin Borst\n\nLyle Benjamin Borst (24 November 1912 – 30 July 2002), nuclear physicist, inventor, worked with Enrico Fermi in Chicago, involved with the Manhattan District Project, and worked with Ernest O. Wollan to conduct neutron scattering and neutron diffraction studies.\n\nLyle Benjamin Borst was born on 24 November 1912 in Cook County at Chicago, Illinois the son of George William Borst aged 39 of Chicago, Illinois and Jennie Beveridge aged 26. Borst was married to Ruth Barbara Mayer Borst for 63 years and had 3 children, sons, John Benjamin and Stephen Lyle and daughter, Frances Elizabeth Wright including 7 grandchildren and 4 great grandchildren. He died at his home in Williamsville, New York on 30 July 2002.\n\nBorst attended the University of Illinois and received bachelor's and master's degrees. He attended the University of Chicago and was awarded a doctorate degree in chemistry in 1941.\nBorst worked as a senior physicist on the Manhattan Project from 1943-1946 at the Clinton Laboratories in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. In 1944 Ernest O. Wollan and Borst used neutron diffraction to produce \"rocking curves\" for crystals of gypsum and sodium chloride (salt). In 1946 Karl Z. Morgan and Borst at Oak Ridge develop a film badge to measure worker exposure to fast neutrons. From 1946-1951 Borst was Chairman of the Department of Reactor Science and Engineering at Brookhaven National Laboratory and was responsible for the operation and oversight of the Brookhaven Graphite Research Reactor. He played a key role in the design of the research reactor. Borst was at the University of Utah from 1951-1953 as Professor of Physics. From 1956-1961 he was Chairman of the Department of Physics at the College of Engineering at New York University. From 1961-1983 Borst was Professor of Physics at State University of New York in Buffalo, New York and was appointed Professor Emeritus in 1983. In 1969 he served as Master of Clifford Furnas College at the State University of New York at Buffalo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44008893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008893", "title": "Mark Mitchell (researcher)", "text": "Mark Mitchell (researcher)\n\nMark A. Mitchell is the director of the Applied Concepts Laboratory at the Georgia Tech Research Institute, a position he has held since 2013. \n\nMitchell received Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering and Master of Science in Electrical Engineering degrees from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1985 and 1986, respectively. As a student at Georgia Tech, he worked for the campus radio station, WREK, serving terms as music director and programming director during his time there.\n\nMitchell began working at GTRI in 1987 as a research engineer. During his career, he has been involved with the government teams that developed a number of modern phased array systems, including the THAAD radar and the Cobra Judy Replacement program. He undertook key roles in several defense acquisition programs heading several Antenna Integrated Product Team (IPT). Mitchell was named interim director of the Applied Concepts Laboratory in November 2013 and was later made permanent director. \n"}
{"id": "18596497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18596497", "title": "Mohammed Amin (boxer)", "text": "Mohammed Amin (boxer)\n\nMohammed Amin (born November 15, 1913) is an Egyptian boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1936 he was eliminated in the second round of the light heavyweight class after losing his fight to Robey Leibbrandt of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "675522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675522", "title": "Nils Dacke", "text": "Nils Dacke\n\nNils Dacke was a Swedish yeoman who was the leader of a mid-16th century peasant revolt in Småland, southern Sweden, called the Dacke War (Swedish: \"Dackefejden\"), fought against the Swedish king Gustav I Vasa. It was the most widespread and serious civil war in Swedish history and almost toppled the king.\n\nGustav Vasa had come to power at the head of a peasant army in 1523. He had established Sweden's independence from Denmark and made Protestantism the national religion. Småland found itself on the border between Sweden and Denmark and was hard hit by Vasa's ban on cross-border trade. In addition, the heavyhanded way in which the church was reformed and the increasing tax burden led to much dissatisfaction among the poor peasants. Already in 1536, Nils Dacke was tried at a local court for killing a sheriff; according to court records he was fined 10 oxen.\n\nThe uprising started in June 1542 with the assassination of more sheriffs and tax collectors. Gustav Vasa underestimated the military prowess of the peasants and sent his German mercenaries to quell the revolt. The landsknechts were, however, unsuited for battle in the rugged forests and suffered heavy losses. Dacke had devised defensive tactics that allowed the peasants to use their steel crossbows with devastating effect. Dacke's successes helped spread the revolt over all the southern provinces of Sweden. The situation was so serious that the king was forced to sue for peace, and a one-year ceasefire was signed on 8 November. During the ceasefire, Dacke was the de facto ruler of most of southern Sweden and received offers of foreign support from the Elector Palatine Frederick II (who was the son-in-law of Christian II and claimed the Swedish throne) and Duke Albrecht of Mecklenburg. He reinstated the ceremonies of the Roman Catholic Church and reopened the cross-border trade in the areas under his control. With Danish support Gustav Vasa mounted an invasion of Mecklenburg which neutralised the German threat.\n\nThe king broke the ceasefire in January 1543 and sent a new and larger army into the rebellious area. Royal propaganda had been spread to win over the population and turn them against Dacke. Dacke himself had become overconfident after earlier successes and met the Royal army in a pitched battle in March. The trained soldiers fighting on their own terms shattered the peasant army, and Dacke was severely injured. After this defeat, the rebellion was effectively over and Dacke became an outlaw.\n\nDacke was shot and killed in the high summer of 1543 in the forests which, at the time, surrounded the southeastern border between Sweden and Denmark (nowadays southern Swedish provinces Småland and Blekinge). According to contemporary sources, he had been injured in both legs by hits from the king's crossbows during the decisive battle a few months earlier, his forces had been routed, and he was likely trying to escape from the king's mercenaries. There is no doubt that he was killed on the spot.\n\nDacke was executed posthumously, quartered, and his limbs were sent for public display in larger communities that had supported him during the rebellion. Gustav Vasa ordered the annihilation of Dacke's entire family, but showed some leniency against those who had given themselves up. Thus, the unity of the realm was restored.\n\nAs a result of the war, the king was henceforth more careful when dealing with his subjects. The reliance on foreign mercenaries in the army was reduced in favour of soldiers of Swedish extraction (many of which were recruited in Småland), and this laid the foundation for Sweden's military successes in later wars.\n\nToday, Nils Dacke is perceived as a Småland freedom hero. His name is often linked to an independent streak in Småland. Statues in memory of him have been erected, including one in Virserum, where the final battle allegedly took place during 1543. The (\"Nils Dacke-partiet\") is a local political party in the county of Gnosjö. \"\" is a vessel, owned by serving the Trelleborg-Świnoujście route. In 1961, a made-for-television film entitled \"Dacke\" was released by Swedish director and screenwriter .\n\n"}
{"id": "57421968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57421968", "title": "Nine sorceresses", "text": "Nine sorceresses\n\nThe nine sorceresses or nine sisters are a recurring element in Arthurian legend in variants of the popular nine maidens theme from world mythologies. Their most important appearances are in Geoffrey of Monmouth's introduction of Avalon and the character that would later become Morgan le Fay, and as the central motif of Peredur's story in the \"Peredur son of Efrawg\" part of the \"Mabinogion\".\n\nIn \"Preiddeu Annwfn\", the nine virgin priestesses of the otherworldy island of Annwfn (Annwn, the Welsh version of the Celtic Otherworld) guard a magic cauldron, and their magic abilities seem to include fire-breathing. A raid by Arthur and his warband either steals or destroys the cauldron, but what happens to the maidens of Annwfn is not mentioned. The motif of nine supernatural women appears also in some other tales of the Celtic Otherworld, possibly derived from sisterhoods of priestesses of the old Celtic Religion.\n\nThe nine witches of Ystawingun (Ystavingun) are mentioned in a single line of the 10-century poem \"Pa Gur yv y Porthaur\", where the feat of slaying them in this highland is listed among the greatest achievements of Cai (Sir Kay in later tradition). Ystawingun is unidentified but might be associated with Stanton Moor and its stone circle known as \"Nine Ladies\" or with Porthsgiwed. According to John and Caitlin Matthews, the women whose killing Cai is credited with in \"Pa Gur\" are in fact the same as the pagan priestesses from \"Preiddeu Annwfn\".\n\nScholars like Norris J. Lacy and John T. Koch make an additional (besides \"Preiddeu Annwfn\") connection also to the nine witch sisters and their mother in the 7th-century Breton lai \"Vita Prima Samsonis\". Her description resembles that of the Irish goddess Mórrígan. In this work, Saint Samson of Dol encounters just one of the sisters, a wild-looking wicked witch (\"malefica\") calling herself Theomacha (Enemy of God), as she was flying through a forest on the island of Loire and attacking one of his young deacons. Samson calls for her to repent and convert, but she refuses and tells him she wishes to do nothing but evil as she did her whole life. After that Theomacha attempts to flee, but Samson commands her to stay in place, rendering her utterly immobile in the air, and offers her last final chance but she proves to be beyond salvation. Samson then proceeds to pray for such utterly irredeemable woman's destruction; as soon as he finishes his prayer, she drops down dead.\n\nGeoffrey of Monmouth's 12-century \"Vita Merlini\" introduces the magical island of Avalon, the paradisal \"Isle of Apples\", as ruled by the nine entirely benevolent enchantress-sisters, known as great healers and capable of shape-shifting and other magic: Morgen, Moronoe, Mazoe, Gliten, Glitonea, Gliton, Tyronoe, and either Thiten and Thiton or two sisters both named Thitis of whom one of them distinguished as \"best known for her cither\". The sisters receive the dying Arthur from Taliesin, delivered to them in a hope they can revive him. Their beautiful, wise and powerful queen, Morgen, would later evolve into Morgan le Fay, Arthur's own sister in later Arthurian tradition, who herself takes the dying Arthur to Avalon. The other eight sisters appear only in this text and never return in any known works by other medieval authors. \n\nIt is very possible that the author was inspired, besides the stories such as \"Preiddeu Annwfn\", by an ancient Roman description of the island Sein off the coast of Brittany, depicted by the 1st century geographer Pomponius Mela as being ruled by nine virgin priestesses wielding incredible magic powers. Other possible connections involve the Greek mythology figures of Circe, Medea, and the nine muses (most of the sisters have Greek-style names). Geoffrey's Avalon is also connected to Annwn; Morgen is even actually called \"goddess of Annwn\" in an early manuscript. \n\nThe nine make their final written appearance in the \"Peredur son of Efrawg\" part of the \"Mabinogion\", wherein Peredur (a variant of Percival) faces many opponents throughout the course of the story. However, his real enemies are eventually revealed as the \"Gwiddonod Caerloyw\" - the malignant \"Nine Witches of Caer Lloyw\" (or Caerloyw, literally the Castle of Glow in English, or the \"Shining Fortress\", later identified as Gloucester), also known as the \"Nine Sorceresses of Gloucester\". Here they are fearsome mistresses of warfare and magic who terrorize Britain and whose evil deeds are responsible for ravaging his uncle's kingdom. It is a variant of an Arthurian Grail tale in which, instead of questing for the Grail, the hero takes part in ridding the land of the plague (\"gormes\") of evil witches that must be destroyed. The witches, a group of black-clad \"maiden-hags\", actually enter the story as Peredur's opponents-turned-benefactors, even giving him the same powers as they have when he spends time in their home, but the central theme is his eventual unenthusiastic revenge on them for having previously harmed his relatives. Peredur himself vanquishes only the chief witch, and only forced to do so after giving them three chances to yield, but this act breaks the magic of their spells and Arthur and his men slaughter the rest without mercy and with such as swiftness that not a single one escapes alive.\n\nRelatively early on during his adventures, Peredur comes upon a mountain castle, the lady of which tells him how the surrounding lands have been conquered and laid to waste by the terrifying nine sorceresses, with powers too great for anyone to stop them, and that one is coming to take the castle the very next morning. But Peredur offers to help, and at dawn he fiercely attacks and subdues the arriving enchantress with a blow that shatters her helmet. He is just about to slay her but stops when she begs forgiveness; after obtaining permission from the lady of the castle, he agrees to spare her life if she promises to return to her land and that she and her sisters would never trouble the dominion of his hostess (Peredur regularly gives quarter to his defeated enemies through the course of the tale, including Kai and various other knights). He then sets off with the now befriended sorceress back to her palace at Caer Lloyw in the journey that itself is not described. Peredur stays at the Witches' Court (\"Llys Gwiddonod\") for three weeks, being tutored by them until he finishes his training, and then he is sent off by their lady principal on his way with the horse and weapons of his choice. \n\nDuring the grand finale at the original end of the tale, however, Peredur learns that a mysterious severed head (replacing the Grail in this story), which he had witnessed before meeting the sorceresses, belonged to one his cousins. His foster-sister accuses the witches for the murder of his cousin and for having cursed and lamed of his uncle (an unnamed king of the realm, here a Fisher King figure), and tells Peredur that he is predestined to be their avenger. Peredur and his elder companion Gwalchmei (Gawain) decide to summon Arthur's warband to join them in this labour, and he leads them to Caer Lloyw to deal with the sorceresses. During the ensuing showdown, the witches attack and Peredur watches the seemingly invincible leader of the enchantresses defeat Arthur's warriors one by one, as Peredur keeps pleading for her to desist and stop the fighting and give up but she does not listen; only after she kills the third one, Peredur finally enters the strife himself and swiftly strikes her down with a single powerful blow. With her dying breath, she cries out to the other witches they are doomed as Peredur was prophesied as the slayer of them all, and orders the other witches to getaway; however Arthur and the others rush and chase after the fleeing women until every last one is overtaken and put to the sword.\n\nThe narrative does not actually say how many witches are gathered for the final battle at Caer Loyw when they are wiped out, and there might be more than the nine from the first encounter between them and Perodur; according to John Rhys it is suggested \"they must have mustered in a great force,\" possibly along with (unmentioned) \"numerous allies of the other sex.\" In any case, Peredur's duty of vengeance was fulfilled and he is celebrated as hero for his role in freeing the kingdom of the great scourge of witchcraft - and, with the sorceresses now annihilated, Peredur himself becomes the last keeper of their magic secrets. However, what happened to his uncle after the victory is left untold. Urban T. Holmes Jr. assumed that with the witches' death the king was freed from their enchantments, conversely Arthur Edward Waite assumed that the king was not healed and it was all in vain.\n\nAs in the cases of the above stories of Samson and Cai, this romance may be an echo of an otherwise unrecorded extermination of local Celtic pagan cults by Christians during the 5th and 6th centuries, as it is considered by Flint F. Johnson; Dhira B. Mahoney speculated the witches may \"represent the supporters of an older order trying to regain control of the system.\" Elsewhere in the \"Mabinogion\", the tale of \"Culhwch and Olwen\" likewise features the motif of Arthur's attack on Caer Loyw, but in this case the defenders of the castle are male. Arthur also hunts down Orddu (the Black Witch) and kills her by slicing her in half after she repeatedly beats his men who first struggle to defeat her, reminiscent of how Peredur dispatched of the witch queen of Caer Lloyw. Furthermore, parts of the story parallel how the Irish mythological hero Cú Chulainn is thought combat by the warrior woman Scáthach after he overcomes and threatens her; Cú Chulainn also defeats Scáthach's rival Aífe, sparing her life but raping her, and many years later comes to fight and kill their son of this union. Norma Lorre Goodrich connects the motif with \"magical warrior rites in Scotland\" and links the witches' leader to the figure of Queen Morgan le Fay, a sorcerous half-sister of Arthur. According to Roger Sherman Loomis, it is possible that the author either indeed had Morgan in mind for the \"gwiddon\" or that both he and Goeffrey were taking from the same sources in earlier tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "7135455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7135455", "title": "Nirmal Chandra Chatterjee", "text": "Nirmal Chandra Chatterjee\n\nNirmal Chandra Chatterjee (1895–1971) was an Indian jurist who served as president of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha.\n\nHe was born on 19 October 1895 in Boinchee, in the Hooghly district to Bholanath Chatterjee. He was educated at the South Suburban School, the Mitra Institution, St. Mary's School, all in Calcutta, before graduating from the Scottish Church College. Subsequently, he studied law at the Hazra Law College of the University of Calcutta, before proceeding on to the Middle Temple, London, and subsequently finishing his academic pursuit at the University College, London.\n\nHe started out as a senior advocate in the Supreme Court of India. He went on to be a judge at the Calcutta High Court. Later he became the vice president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, and treasurer of the Bar Association of India. He had also served as a president of the All India Civil Liberties Council, and as vice president of the International Commission of Jurists - Indian Branch.\n\nHe became the President of All India Hindu Mahasabha and presided over its Gwalior session in 1947. But after partition and assassination of Mahatma Gandhi, he somewhat disenchent with party politics. Towards the end of 1947 and early 1948, he felt ill quite frequently and months could not attend his professional work. Doctors advised him that because of the serious attack of epidemic dropsy, he would not be able to lead an active life anymore. At that time, he got an offer for appointment as a Judge of Calcutta High court and he agreed to accept.\n\nHe was also a member of the Special Committee on Tibet of the International Commission of Jurists, and a chairman of the Subordinate Legislation Committee of Parliament. He represented India at the Commonwealth Law Conference held in London in 1955. He was a deputy leader of the Indian Lawyers Delegation to the USSR in 1959, and represented India at the International Bar Conference at Salzburg in Austria in 1960 and Commonwealth Law Conference held at Sydney in 1966. He was counsel for India at the Kutch International Tribunal in Geneva.\n\nHe was a member of the 1st Lok Sabha (1952-1957) from Hooghly as an Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha candidate, 3rd Lok Sabha after he won a bye-poll in 1963 as an independent from Burdwan with CPI support and 4th Lok Sabha (1967-1971) when he won again from Burdwan as an independent. He died in 1971. The Burdwan seat was won by his son Somnath Chatterjee in 1971 general election, as a Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate.\n\nHe married Binapani Devi on 30 May 1915, and later became the father of Debnath Chatterjee, his eldest son and other was the Marxist leader, Parliamentarian Somnath Chatterjee, a fiercely anti-Hindutva communist leader from Bengal who served as the 14th Speaker of the Lok Sabha from 2004 to 2009.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42145538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42145538", "title": "Oleksandr Muzychko", "text": "Oleksandr Muzychko\n\nOleksandr Ivanovych Muzychko (Ukrainian: Олександр Іванович Музичко, 19 September 1962 – 24 March 2014), nicknamed Sashko Bilyi (Сашко Білий), was a Ukrainian political activist, a member of UNA-UNSO and coordinator of Right Sector in Western Ukraine. Russian prosecutors accused him of killing \"at least 20\" captive Russian soldiers during the First Chechen War. The inquiry by the Russian Investigative Committee began in March 2014, years after the alleged killings.\n\nMuzychko had vowed to fight \"communists, Jews and Russians for as long as blood flows in my veins\".\n\nMuzychko was born near the Ural Mountains to a Ukrainian father and a Belarusian mother, both deported members of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army.\n\nDuring the First Chechen War he led the UNA-UNSO \"Viking\" group. In 1995 Muzychko was convicted of causing grievous bodily harm to an individual. In 1997 he was accused of attempting to kill a member of UNA-UNSO in Kiev. In 2003 Muzychko was sentenced to 3.5 years in prison for racketeering and kidnapping. In 2009 he was accused in a hostile corporate raid. In 2012 he ran for the Ukrainian parliament in the 153rd electoral district (Rivne) coming sixth.\nOn 27 February 2014, Muzychko attacked the Prosecutor of the Rivne Oblast in his office and threatened to \"slay as a dog\" the Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov. On 28 February 2014, criminal proceedings were opened against him.\n\nOn 7 March 2014, ITAR-TASS reported that he was wanted by Russian authorities for war atrocities. On 11 March 2014, Russian State Duma opposition leader Valery Rashkin urged Russian special services to \"follow Mossad examples\" and assassinate Right Sector leaders Dmytro Yarosh and Muzychko.\n\nOn 24 March 2014 Oleksandr Muzychko was shot dead. There are conflicting stories about how this happened. An official inquiry concluded he had shot himself in the heart three times at the end of a police chase.\n\nAccording to Ukrainian MP Oles Doniy, a group of unknown armed people arrived in three Volkswagen minivans and kidnapped Muzychko and five other people from a café near Rivne. They murdered Muzychko behind the café with two gunshots to the heart. In another telling of Doniy's account, a group of attackers forced Muzychko to halt his car, pulled him out of the vehicle, handcuffed him and shot him.\n\nAccording to the interior ministry of Ukraine, Muzychko died in a shoot-out with police in a café in Rivne. According to the ministry, the police raided the café to arrest Muzychko, but he opened fire while he tried to flee. He was shot when the police returned fire. The police were able to capture him and three others, but by the time the paramedics had arrived at the scene, he had died.\n\nOn 25 March, police stated that Muzychko had shot himself. This was confirmed by an inquiry by the interior ministry, who concluded he had shot himself in the heart as police tried to bring him to the ground after a chase. The inquiry also concluded he had fired previously, resulting in a scratch on his skin, and that the police had acted lawfully.\n\nReacting to the news about shooting Dmytro Yarosh leader of Right Sector, called for resignation of Interior Minister Arsen Avakov and the arrest of the police officers who came after Muzychko. Unknown member of the Right Sector promised to reprisal to the minister for his death.\n\n10 days before his death Alexander Muzychko accused ukrainian police (MIA) and general prosecutor offices in preparation of his assassination. According to Volodymyr Yevdokymov (), a former officer of the SSU, Muzychko was «neutralized» during special operation of the SSU.\n\nIn Konotop a street was named after Oleksandr Muzychko.\n\n"}
{"id": "8796244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8796244", "title": "Peruvians", "text": "Peruvians\n\nPeruvians () are the citizens of the Republic of Peru or their descendants abroad. Peru is a multiethnic country formed by the combination of different groups over five centuries, so people in Peru usually treat their nationality as a citizenship rather than an ethnicity. Amerindians inhabited Peruvian territory for several millennia before Spanish Conquest in the 16th century; according to historian David N. Cook their population decreased from an estimated 5–9 million in the 1520s to around 600,000 in 1620 mainly because of infectious diseases. Spaniards and Africans arrived in large numbers under colonial rule, mixing widely with each other and with indigenous peoples. During the Republic, there has been a gradual immigration of European people (specially from Spain and Italy, and in a less extent from France, the Balkans, Portugal, Great Britain and Germany). Japanese and Chinese arrived in large numbers at the end of nineteenth century.\n\nWith 31.2 million inhabitants according to the 2017 Census, Peru is the fifth most populous country in South America. Its demographic growth rate declined from 2.6% to 1.6% between 1950 and 2000; population is expected to reach approximately 46 - 51 million in 2050. As of 2017, 79.3% lived in urban areas and 20.7% in rural areas. Major cities include Lima, home to over 9.5 million people, Arequipa, Trujillo, Chiclayo, Piura, Iquitos, Huancayo, Cusco and Pucallpa, all of which reported more than 250,000 inhabitants.\nThe largest expatriate Peruvian communities are in the United States (Peruvian Americans), South America (Argentina, Chile, Venezuela and Brazil), Europe (Spain, Italy, France and the United Kingdom), Japan, Australia and Canada.\n\nIn the 2017 Census, those of 12 years old and above were asked what ancestral origin they belong too with 60.2% of Peruvians self-identified as Mestizos, 22.3% as Quechuas, 5.9% as White, 3.6% as Black/Mulatto, 2.4% as Aymaras, 0.3% as Amazonians, 0.1% as Tusán, 0.1% as Nikkei and 1.1% as Others. Amerindians are found in the southern Andes, though a large portion, also to be found in the southern and central coast due to the massive internal labor migration from remote Andean regions to coastal cities, during the past four decades.\n\nMestizos compose 60.2% of the total population. The term traditionally denotes Amerindian and European ancestry (mostly Spanish ancestry). This term was part of the caste classification used during colonial times, whereby people of exclusive Spanish descent who were born in the colonies were called criollos, people of mixed Amerindian and Spanish descent were called mestizos, those of African and Spanish descent were called mulattos, and those of Amerindian and African descent were called zambos.\nMost mestizos are urban dwellers and show stronger European inheritance in regions like Lima Region, La Libertad Region, Callao Region, Cajamarca Region, Piura Region, Lambayeque Region, and Arequipa Region.\n\nAmerindians constitute 25.7% of the total population. The two major indigenous or ethnic groups are the Quechuas (belonging to various cultural subgroups), followed by the Aymaras, mostly found in the extreme southern Andes. A large proportion of the indigenous population who live in the Andean highlands still speak Quechua or Aymara, and have vibrant cultural traditions, some of which were part of the Inca Empire.\n\nDozens of indigenous cultures are also dispersed throughout the country beyond the Andes Mountains in the Amazon basin. This region is rapidly becoming urbanized. Important urban centers include Iquitos, Nauta, Puerto Maldonado, Pucallpa and Yurimaguas. This region is home to numerous indigenous peoples, though they do not constitute a large proportion of the total population. Examples of indigenous peoples residing in eastern Peru include the Shipibo, Urarina, Cocama, and Aguaruna.\n\nEuropean descendants total 5.9% of the total population. They are mostly descendants of the Spanish colonizers. And other Europeans such as Italians, British, French, Germans, Irish, Dutch, Portuguese, Swiss, Poles and Croatians (see also Croatian Peruvian) who arrived in the 19th and 20th centuries. The majority of them live also in the largest cities, usually in the North and Center cities of Peru: Lima, Trujillo, Chiclayo, and Piura.\n\nThe only southern city with a significant white population is Arequipa. Also Oxapampa and Pozuzo in the Pasco Region, and through all Northwest (mainly the highlands of the Coast Regions, Cajamarca Region and part of the San Martin Region), a considerable white population can be found, mostly descendants of Spanish, German, British, French and Italian settlers. Recently, Peru has seen a migration of American retirees and businessmen come to settle in the country, due to lower cost of living and economic booms from the year 2000 to present.\n\nThere is also a large presence of Asian Peruvians, primarily east Asian Chinese and Japanese along with more recently arrived Filipinos and other Asian immigrants, that constitutes 0.2% of the population. \n\nPeru has the second largest population of people of Japanese descent in Latin America after Brazil and the largest population of Chinese descent in Latin America. Historic communities inhabited by people of Chinese descent are found throughout the Peruvian upper Amazon, including cities such as Yurimaguas, Nauta, Iquitos and the north central coast (Lambayeque and Trujillo).\n\nIn contrast to the Japanese community in Peru, the Chinese appear to have intermarried much more since they came to work in the rice fields during the Viceroyalty and to replace the African slaves, during the abolition of slavery itself. Despite the presence of Peruvians of Asian heritage being quite recent, in the past decade they have made significant advancements in business and political fields; a past president (Alberto Fujimori), several past cabinet members, and one member of the Peruvian congress are of Japanese or Chinese origin. Large numbers of Arab Peruvians, mostly of Lebanese, Syrian and Iraqis origin and Palestinians also reside, as well a small Jewish, Hindustani and Pakistani communities.\n\nThe remaining is constituted by Afro-Peruvians, which are around 3.6% a legacy of Peru's history as an importer of slaves during the colonial period. Today also mulattos (mixed African and European) and zambos (mixed African and Amerindian) constitute an important part of the population as well, especially in Piura, Tumbes, Lambayeque, Lima and Ica regions. The Afro-Peruvian population is concentrated mostly in coastal cities south of Lima, such as that of those found in the Ica Region, in cities like Cañete, Chincha, Ica, Nazca and Acarí in the border with the Arequipa Region.\n\nAnother large but poorly promoted segment of Afro-Peruvian presence is in the \"Yunga\" regions (west and just below the Andean chain of northern Peru), (i.e., Piura and Lambayeque), where sugarcane, lemon, and mango production are still of importance. Important communities are found all over the Morropón Province, such as in the city of Chulucanas. One of them is Yapatera, a community in the same city, as well as smaller farming communities like Pabur or La Matanza and even in the mountainous region near Canchaque. Further south, the colonial city of Zaña or farming towns like Capote and Tuman in Lambayeque are also important regions with Afro-Peruvian presence.\n\nAfter independence, there has been a gradual European immigration from England, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Croatia and Spain.\n\nPolynesians also came to the country lured to work in the Guano islands during the boom years of this commodity around the 1860s. Chinese arrived in the 1850s as a replacement for slave workers in the sugar plantations of the north coast and have since become a major influence in Peruvian society. Other immigrant groups include Arabs, South Asians, Japanese and Americans from the United States.\n\nSpanish, the first language of 82.6% of Peruvians aged five and older in 2017, is the primary language of the country. It coexists with several indigenous languages, the most common of which is Quechua, spoken by 13.9% of the population. Other native and foreign languages were spoken at that time by 0.8% and 0.2% of Peruvians, respectively. Literacy was estimated at 94.2% in 2017; this rate is lower in rural areas (83%) than in urban areas (96.8%).\n\nIn the 2017 census, 76% of the population over 12 years old described themselves as Catholic, 14.1% as Evangelical, 4.8% as Other, and 5.1% as non-religious. Lord of Miracles is a mural painted by a black slave in the 17th century of Jesus Christ that is venerated in Lima and the main Catholic festivity in Peru and one of the biggest processions around the world.\n\nEvery year, in October, hundreds of thousands of faithful from all races and economic backgrounds dresses in purple to celebrate the also known \"Black Christ\" in a religious procession through the streets of Lima. Without doubt the earthquakes by Lima during the 17th and 18th Centuries, which destroyed most of the city leaving only that mural standing up, contributed to the growth and the solidification of devoted veneration to the mural known as \"Christ of Pachacamilla\".\n\nPeruvian culture is primarily rooted in Amerindian and Spanish traditions, though it has also been influenced by various African, Asian, and European ethnic groups. Peruvian artistic traditions date back to the elaborate pottery, textiles, jewelry, and sculpture of Pre-Inca cultures. The Incas maintained these crafts and made architectural achievements including the construction of Machu Picchu. Baroque dominated colonial art, though modified by native traditions. During this period, most art focused on religious subjects; the numerous churches of the era and the paintings of the Cuzco School are representative. Arts stagnated after independence until the emergence of \"Indigenismo\" in the early 20th century. Since the 1950s, Peruvian art has been eclectic and shaped by both foreign and local art currents.\n\nPeruvian literature has its roots in the oral traditions of pre-Columbian civilizations. Spaniards introduced writing in the 16th century; colonial literary expression included chronicles and religious literature. After independence, Costumbrism and Romanticism became the most common literary genres, as exemplified in the works of Ricardo Palma. In the early 20th century, the \"Indigenismo\" movement produced such writers as Ciro Alegría, José María Arguedas, and César Vallejo. During the second half of the century, Peruvian literature became more widely known because of authors such as Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa, a leading member of the Latin American Boom. María Jesús Alvarado Rivera was a Peruvian rebel feminist, educator, journalist, writer and social activist who was noted by the National Council of Women of Peru in 1969 as the \"first modern champion of women's rights in Peru\".\n\nPeruvian cuisine is a blend of Amerindian and Spanish food with strong influences from African, Arab, Italian, Chinese, and Japanese cooking. Common dishes include \"anticuchos\", \"ceviche\" and \"pachamanca\". Because of the variety of climates within Peru, a wide range of plants and animals are available for cooking. Peruvian cuisine has recently received acclaim due to its diversity of ingredients and techniques.\n\nPeruvian music has Andean, Spanish and African roots. In pre-Hispanic times, musical expressions varied widely from region to region; the \"quena\" and the \"tinya\" were two common instruments. Spanish conquest brought the introduction of new instruments such as the guitar and the harp, as well as the development of crossbred instruments like the \"charango\". African contributions to Peruvian music include its rhythms and the \"cajón\", a percussion instrument. Peruvian folk dances include \"marinera\", \"tondero\" and \"huayno\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1584474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1584474", "title": "Pompeia Plotina", "text": "Pompeia Plotina\n\nPompeia Plotina Claudia Phoebe Piso or Pompeia Plotina (d. 121/122) was a Roman Empress and wife of Roman Emperor Trajan. She was renowned for her interest in philosophy, and her virtue, dignity and simplicity. She was particularly devoted to the Epicurean philosophical school in Athens, Greece. She is often viewed as having provided Romans with fairer taxation, improved education, assisted the poor, and created tolerance in Roman society.\n\nPlotina was born and was raised in Tejada la Vieja (Escacena del Campo) in the province of Hispania, possibly during the reign of Roman Emperor Nero (r. 54–68). However, she could have been born in the 70s CE. She was the daughter of Lucius Pompeius and Plotia, who had extensive political and familial connections. Trajan married her before his accession and, although a happy marriage, they had no known children.\n\nUpon entering the imperial palace following Trajan's ascension, Plotina is said to have turned to those watching her and carefully announced, \"I enter here the kind of woman I would like to be when I depart.\" It was through acts like this she sought to dispel the bad taste of domestic strife that had characterized the reign of Domitian as well as the Julio-Claudian dynasty, where she acted like a traditional Roman matron, and was associated with chaste goddesses like Vesta, the guardian of Rome's sacred fire, and Minerva, goddess of war and wisdom. In 100, Trajan awarded her with title of \"Augusta\", but she did not accept the title until 105. Plotina did not appear also on the coinage until 112.\n\nWhen the future emperor Hadrian and his sister lost their parents at 10 or 11 years old, Trajan and the Roman officer Publius Acilius Attianus became their guardians; Hadrian was a first cousin once removed to Trajan (Trajan's father and Hadrian's paternal grandmother were siblings). Plotina was the matchmaker between Hadrian and his future wife Vibia Sabina.\n\nWhen a letter Trajan was said to have composed on his deathbed appeared in Rome with Plotina's signature on it, in which he adopted Hadrian and naming him successor to the Empire, suspicions were raised. It was rumoured that Attianus and the Empress Plotina had been lovers, both were very fond of Hadrian their ward, both were present at Trajan’s deathbed at Selinus in Cilicia in August 117, and that the two had helped secure Hadrian's succession by forging Trajan’s will.\n\nAnnelise Freisenbruch dismisses this accusation. \"Plotina, the silent spouse of the second century, thus joined Livia, Agrippina Minor, and Domitia in the gallery of Roman imperial women accused of covering up or conspiring in their husband's deaths,\" Freisenbruch acidly writes, noting there are many plausible explanations why Plotina's signature might legitimately be on this declaration: Trajan may have simply been too weak to sign the letter himself. Freisenbruch also notes these kinds of accusations have dogged the spouses of rulers through the centuries, providing two modern examples of these kinds of accusations: in 1919 Edith Wilson was charged with forging the signature of US president Woodrow Wilson after he was incapacitated by a stroke; and four years later, when president Warren Harding died from a heart attack, his wife was then accused in a best-selling book of having poisoned him.\n\nAlong with Attianus and Matidia, the grieving widow Plotina accompanied Trajan’s body to Seleucia and his ashes to Rome.\n\nIt was while a widow that Plotina's best documented action took place. During the year 121, while the emperor Hadrian was inspecting the provinces, Plotina and he engaged in a series of letters discussing who should be the new head of the Epicurean school of philosophy in Athens. She petitioned for a change in the law, which would allow Popillius Theotimus, the acting head of the school, to become the actual head; in response, Hadrian agreed with her argument, and the relevant letters were preserved in a series of inscriptions. Freisenbruch notes, \"In stark contrast to her passive anonymity in the literary record, this inscription from Athens recasts Plotina as a highly educated woman, active on behalf of causes close to her heart and with the kind of access to the emperor once enjoyed by Livia.\"\n\nWhen Plotina died of illness, she was deified. Hadrian built a temple in her honor at Nîmes, in Provence.\n\n"}
{"id": "54350198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54350198", "title": "Rodney Celvin", "text": "Rodney Celvin\n\nRodney Celvin Akwensivie (; born 25 November 1996) is a Malaysian-Ghanaian professional footballer who plays as a centre back for PKNS in the Malaysia Super League.\n\nOn March 2016, Akwensivie received his first call-up to the Malaysia U23s for the centralised training camp as a preparation for friendly match against Philippines U23s and Nepal U23s.Rodney was named in the 20-man Malaysia Squad for the 2018 Asian Games.On 20 August 2018, he made his international debut for Malaysia U23s against Bahrain. In that match, he came on as a substitute, and Malaysia loss 2-3.\n\nAkwensivie was born in Serian, Sarawak to a Bidayuh mother and a Ghanaian-Malaysian father. He also has a brother, Abbel who plays for Sarawak.\n"}
{"id": "32771515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32771515", "title": "Safiatou Thiam", "text": "Safiatou Thiam\n\nSafiatou Thiam is a Senegalese public health doctor, a specialist in HIV/AIDS and former Minister of Health and Disease Prevention in the government of Cheikh Hadjibou Soumaré.She later became Executive Secretary of CNLS National Council against AIDS\n\nShe earned her doctorate degree in Public Health 1995 at Université Cheikh Anta Diop in Dakar, with a thesis titled \"Le SIDA en milieu chirurgical : Connaissances, attitudes et pratiques\" (in English: AIDS in the surgical arena: Knowledge, attitudes and practises). She completed a Master of Science degree at the Institut de médecine tropicale d'Anvers in 1997. She completed many specialist diplomas in Dakar and in France, as well as a DEA in Santé publique et pays en développement (English: Public Health and Developing Countries) at l'Université Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris VI) in 2001.\n\nAt the Conseil national de la lutte contre le Sida (CNLS) (in English: National Council for the Fight Against AIDS), she directs the programs of the Fonds mondial de lutte contre cette pandémie. In 2007 she was recruited as the coordinator of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS program in Senegal. In 2014 she served as a consultant at GMS/OASYS Grant Management Solutions. Mali. Institute of Health and Development.\n\nAt Paris VI University she earned a Diploma of Thorough (DEA) in \" Public Health and Developing Countries \" (2001). At University Cheikh Anta Diop of Dakar she garnered a Certificate of Specialized Studies (CES) in Infectious and Tropical Diseases (2001). At the Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp in Belgium she picked up a Master of Science: Degree in Tropical Biomedical Sciences (epidemiology and disease control option) (1997). At the Paul Correa Institute of Dakar Diploma she completed a Course on Planning and Organization of control of STDs and AIDS in developing countries (1998). At the Fournier Institute Paris International she completed a Diploma Course on Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs). At the AIDS Institute Fournier in Paris (1998), University Cheikh Anta Diop of Dakar State she earned her Doctorate Medicine ( 1995).\n\nIn 1998 in Senegal she for UNHCR / OFADEC she was a Consultant Physician for refugee Assistance.\n\nFrom August 1999 - December 2001 she worked in IMEA Physician Clinical Coordination and monitoring test cohort 1st clinical trials of antiretrovirals.\n\nFrom January to December 1997 in Senegal she was a NACP research Assistant Coordinator on intervention strategies among female sex workers in Dakar. supervisions activities support and STI prevention in health districts and centers support TS (IST center ) Training of trainers on the use of guides syndromic management of STIs in the place of doctors, nurses and midwives,\n\nFrom 1995-1996 she worked at the Senegal Ministry of Health as an epidemiological investigator on: diagnostic capability of STD health centers a preliminary investigation of a proposed program to fight diabetes, malaria morbidity and mortality.\n\nFrom January 2002 to September 2003 Senegal DLSI / Ministry of Health Head Office Support HIV planning, support for implementation, supervision of activities Coordination of the National Steering Committee of Voluntary Counselling and Testing Coordination Committee drafting standards and Guidelines Centres Coordination Councils and Voluntary Testing the definition and implementation work of the decentralization policy initiative Senegalese antiretroviral access in areas Member of the editorial boards of documents on standards supported with antiretrovirals at health posts, health centers and hospitals member group a number of technical documents : the National Policy on injection Safety in Senegal Senegal 's proposals to the Global Fund to Fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and Malaria ; Guides syndromic management of STIs; Guides counseling and support for HIV strategic Plan 2002-2006 contrele fight AIDS ; strategic Plan to Fight against AIDS 2007-2011.\n\nFrom September 2003 to March 2007 she served on the Senegal National Council Fight Against AIDS.\n\nfrom April to September 2006 Senegal SE / CNLS Officer Coordinating the development of the National Strategic Plan for the Fight against AIDS (NSP 2007-2011 ) program.\n\nIn 2007 she was hired as coordinator of UNAIDS in Senegal.\n\nOn September 13, 2007, at age 44, Safiatou Thiam was Senegal's appointed Minister of Health and Prevention.\n\nBeginning in 2009, she acted as a consultant in multiple countries for United Nations and other programs fighting AIDS, including Guinea, Burkina Faso, Mail and Cote d'Ivoire.\n\nShe coordinated the development and validation of the National Health Development Plan of Senegal (PNDS 2009-2018), Evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment country health; development of National health Accounts, development and validation of a policy of maintenance of medical equipment; Evaluation of Hospital Reform; development of advocacy materials in the promotion of health, the fight against disease and universal coverage of health insurance.\n\nOn February 19, 2014 she was appointed Executive Secretary of CNLS National Council for the Fight against AIDS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9116564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9116564", "title": "Saint Eumenes", "text": "Saint Eumenes\n\nSaint Eumenes (or Eumenius) was a bishop of Gortyna in Crete during the 7th century (some sources say 3rd century). His feast day occurs on September 18. He gave up his wealth as a young man and was chosen as bishop of Gortyna. Many miracles are attributed to him: he killed a venomous snake, drove out demons, and healed the sick. He performed miracles at Gortyna, Rome, and in the Thebaid. He died in exile in the Thebaid.\n\n"}
{"id": "2237149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2237149", "title": "Savanna Samson", "text": "Savanna Samson\n\nSavanna Samson (born October 14, 1967) is the stage name of Natalie Oliveros, an American former pornographic actress. The winner of several AVN Awards, she has spent most of her career as a contract performer with major producer Vivid Entertainment, and is known for her roles in acclaimed adult films such as \"The New Devil in Miss Jones\". In addition to performing, she has her own adult film studio, Savanna Samson Productions. A native of upstate New York, she entered the adult film industry in 2000, after working as a dancer at the Manhattan strip club, Scores.\n\nSamson has gained mainstream recognition with appearances on television shows such as \"Saturday Night Live\", \"The Daily Show\" and \"30 Rock\". Her wide range of activities outside pornography include working as a sex-advice columnist, a radio presenter and a political correspondent. She also produces her own line of wines, has a recording contract with E1 Music and is a trained ballerina.\n\nOne of five daughters, Samson grew up Roman Catholic in Watertown, New York. She began dancing at a young age and, at 17, moved to New York City to pursue a career in ballet. However, she eventually gave this up, admitting she \"wasn't good enough\", and took a job dancing at the Manhattan strip club Scores, on the recommendation of her sister who worked there. When starting at the club, she chose the stage name Savanna in homage to a character in \"The Prince of Tides\". The surname Samson, taken from the biblical figure, was added later in her career to distinguish her from porn actress Savannah. While at Scores, she met her future husband, wine merchant Daniel Oliveros, with whom she now has a son.\n\nSamson's move into the adult film business began in 2000, after she wrote a letter to Italian porn actor and director Rocco Siffredi, asking to work with him. She initially wanted to make a movie in order to fulfill a fantasy, after her husband had given her the idea, and hoped no one she knew would find out. However, after her first movie, \"Rocco Meats An American Angel In Paris\", which was nominated for \"Best Foreign Release\" at the AVN Awards, she got what she described as \"porn fever\" and went on to make further movies. Her family soon discovered her film career when she appeared on \"The Howard Stern Show\" and \"Entertainment Tonight\". Samson stated in 2006: \"My parents are devastated by my career choices\".\n\nIn April 2002, she signed an exclusive contract with Vivid Entertainment. She continued to live in New York, and commuted to California to shoot films for the company. Samson was among three Vivid Girls to be profiled in an early-2003 issue of \"Vanity Fair\", as part of an annual roundup of the entertainment industry. The Girls were featured alongside other entertainers, such as Daniel Day-Lewis and Julianne Moore, in a double-page photograph taken at Elton John's home on the French Riviera. She was also one of several Vivid Girls to provide content for the book \"How to Have a XXX Sex Life: The Ultimate Vivid Guide\", published by ReganBooks on July 20, 2004. Samson helped promote the book with appearances on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" and \"The Howard Stern Show\". In May 2004, she joined several other porn actresses as a columnist for AVNInsider.com. At the 2004 AVN Awards, Samson won \"Best Actress – Film\" and \"Best Group Sex Scene – Film\" for her role in \"Looking In\", a 2003 film about four suburban couples who have a view into each other's houses.\n\nAlong with comedian Thea Vidale, Samson hosted the 2005 AVN Awards, at which she won awards herself for \"Best All-Girl Sex Scene – Film\" and \"Best Group Sex Scene – Film\". In February 2005, Samson began co-hosting a daily music-and-talk radio show on the Internet station Electric Eye Radio. Later in the year, she featured alongside Jenna Jameson in Vivid's high-budget remake of the classic adult film \"The Devil in Miss Jones\". Samson's role as Miss Jones earned her the 2006 AVN Awards for \"Best Actress – Film\" and \"Best All-Girl Sex Scene – Film\". During her acceptance speech, she revealed the importance of support from her peers and said \"most of my family is pretty ashamed of what I do\".\n\nSamson announced in early 2006 that she had started her own production company, Savanna Samson Productions, which would release one film a year, distributed exclusively by Vivid. During 2006, Samson appeared on \"The Tyra Banks Show\", \"The Dr. Keith Ablow Show\", \"Secret Lives of Women\", and for the second time, \"Saturday Night Live\". Michael Lucas' 2006 gay-porn remake of \"La Dolce Vita\" featured a cameo appearance by Samson, which in 2007 won her the GayVN Award for \"Best Non-Sexual Performance\".\n\nEarly in 2007, Samson signed a record contract with Koch Records, now known as E1 Music, who approached her after hearing her sing during a radio tour. On May 3, 2007, she appeared as a guest on the WNYC radio series, \"The Tristan Mysteries\", to discuss Richard Wagner's opera \"Tristan und Isolde\". A long-time Wagner fan, Samson stated \"I think I'm in a unique position to discuss the sensual aspects of the 'Tristan and Isolde' characters and of opera in general\". In June 2007, Savanna Samson Productions released its first title, \"Any Way You Want Me\", an interactive movie directed by and starring Samson. She also appeared in the 2007 film \"Debbie Does Dallas ... Again\", a sequel to the 1978 classic \"Debbie Does Dallas\", as well as its \"making of\" series that was broadcast weekly on Showtime. The film gained her a 2008 AVN Award for \"Best Group Sex Scene – Film\".\n\nIn April 2008, Samson became a political correspondent on Fox News Channel's late-night talk show \"Red Eye w/ Greg Gutfeld\". She had made several previous appearances on the show, and in 2007 had endorsed New York mayor Rudy Giuliani's Republican presidential candidacy. September 2008 saw the unveiling of her debut album, \"Possession\", and her first single, a title track co-written by Samson during the breakup of her marriage. Commenting on the theme of the song, she said, \"People see me nude and having sex and think they know me and that I'm available, but I'm no more available than Angelina Jolie\". Later in the month, she had a cameo role on \"The Daily Show\", in which she portrayed CBS Evening News anchor Katie Couric in a commercial for a fictional action-adventure show. In the appearance, Samson asks \"Daily Show\" correspondent Jason Jones, \"Hey, Jones, you really think you've got the balls for that story?\" She began writing a sex-advice column for the adult entertainment site XCritic.com in June 2009, having previously written such columns for \"Men’s Fitness\" magazine and AdultFriendFinder.com. Samson made her mainstream acting debut in the \"30 Rock\" episode, \"Into the Crevasse\", which first aired on October 22, 2009. In the episode, she plays a porn version of Tina Fey's character, Liz Lemon. In 2011, Samson was inducted into the AVN Hall of Fame.\n\nAccording to the Internet Adult Film Database, as of May 2010 Samson had appeared in 90 adult movies, including compilations containing recycled scenes. A 2006 article in \"The New York Times\" reported that she earns from $20,000 to over $100,000 per film, depending on sales, with each one taking from three days to two weeks to make. An \"Adult Video News\" article written in February 2006 stated that Samson had five years left on her contract with Vivid.\n\nDespite enjoying her career in the adult film industry, Samson felt it left her unfilled. In 2005, while on vacation in Tuscany, Italy, she decided she could \"leave a mark on this world\" by making wine. The wife of a wine merchant, she had frequently traveled to Italy and France, and often fantasized about owning her own vineyard. When she was a child, she had helped her family make wine in their basement.\n\nShe formed the company, Savanna Samson Wines, and asked Italian winemaker and consultant Roberto Cipresso to help find a blend of grapes local to Tuscany that would produce her ideal flavor. They eventually chose a mixture of 70 percent Cesanese, 20 percent Sangiovese and 10 percent Montepulciano, which produced a red wine that she named Sogno Uno, meaning Dream One. Its label played on Samson's notoriety as a porn star, featuring a side view of her wearing only a see-through gown and high heels. Wine critic Robert M. Parker, Jr. gave Sogno Uno a rating of 90 to 91 out of 100, and described it as \"awfully good\". A gala launch was held for the wine at a Manhattan restaurant on February 27, 2006. By June 2007, her company had produced a further two wines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2174850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2174850", "title": "Shakti Chattopadhyay", "text": "Shakti Chattopadhyay\n\nShakti Chattopadhyay () (25 November 1933 – 23 March 1995) was a Bengali poet and writer.\n\nShakti Chattopadhyay was born at Baharu village in modern-day South 24 Parganas district, Paschimbanga (West Bengal), India to Bamanath Chattopadhyay and Kamala Devi. He lost his father at the age of four and brought up by his maternal grandfather. He came to Bagbazar, Calcutta in 1948 and got admitted to Maharaja Cossimbazar Polytechnic School in class VIII. Here he was introduced to Marxism by a teacher. In 1949 he established Pragati Library and started a hand-written magazine, \"Pragati\", which was soon changed into a printed one, changing the name to \"Bahnishikha\". He passed Matriculation Examination in 1951 and got admitted to the City College to study commerce as his maternal uncle, who was a businessman and also his guardian, promised him a job of an accountant. It was the same year when he got membership of the Communist Party of India (CPI). In 1953, he passed Intermediate Commerce Examination, but gave up studying commerce and got admitted to the Presidency College (now Presidency University, Kolkata) with Honours in Bengali literature but he did not appear in the examination.\n\nIn 1956, he had to leave his maternal uncle’s home and moved to a slum at Ultadanga along with his mother and brother. At this time he was solely dependent on the meagre wages of his brother. In March 1956, his poem \"Yama\" was published in \"Kabita\", a literary magazine published by Buddhadeb Bose. After that he started writing for \"Krittibas\" and other magazines. Buddhadeb Bose also invited him to join the Comparative Literature course in newly opened Jadavpur University. He joined the course, but could not complete it either. In 1958, he terminated his relationship with the CPI.\n\nHe worked at Saxby Pharma Ltd. as a store assistant and later taught at Bhowanipur Tutorial Home (Harrison Road branch). He also started a business himself and ran it for sometime before he gave up and joined Hind Motors as junior executive. But he could not continue anywhere. He started indulging in a wayward lifestyle and drinking heavily.\n\nHe was one of the founder members of the Hungry generation movement, along with other prominent writers like Malay Roy Choudhury, Samir Roychoudhury and Debi Roy.It started with the publication of a one-page bulletin in November 1961. However he left the movement in 1963 due to differences of opinion with the other members.\n\n\n\nIn 1983, he received the Sahitya Akademi Award for his collection of entitled যেতে পারি কিন্তু কেন যাবো \"Jete Pari Kintu Kêno Jabo\" (I can go but why?).\n\n\n5. Misra, Aditya. \"I can but why should I Go?\": The Romance of Opposition in Shakti Chattopadhaya's Poetry, South Asian Review 37.2 (2016): 178-191. http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02759527.2016.11933068\n\n"}
{"id": "45504869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45504869", "title": "Shaylesh Patel", "text": "Shaylesh Patel\n\nShaylesh Vasant Patel (born 1971) is a British accountant who in 2007 founded the Healthy Planet Foundation. He regards himself as a social entrepreneur.\n\nPatel is a graduate of Bristol University (1988-1991, Economics & Accounting). He joined accounting firm Ernst & Young and achieved his ACA qualification in 1994.\n\nPatel's father emigrated to the Midlands in England from India in 1960, working at first as a road-sweeper and then as a bus driver. Patel's mother followed in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "45362411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45362411", "title": "Sir Aubrey de Vere, 2nd Baronet", "text": "Sir Aubrey de Vere, 2nd Baronet\n\nSir Aubrey (Hunt) de Vere, 2nd Baronet (28 August 1788 - 5 July 1846) was an Anglo-Irish poet and landowner.\n\nDe Vere was the son of Sir Vere Hunt, 1st Baronet and Hon. Eleanor Pery, daughter of William Pery, 1st Baron Glentworth. He was educated at Harrow School, where he was a childhood friend of Lord Byron, and Trinity College, Dublin. He married Mary Spring Rice, the daughter of Stephen Edward Rice and Catherine Spring, and sister of Thomas Spring Rice, 1st Baron Monteagle of Brandon, in 1807. He succeeded to his father's title in 1818.\n\nThe Hunt/de Vere family estate for 300 years (1657–1957), including the period of the de Vere Baronetcy of Curragh, is the present day Curraghchase Forest Park, in County Limerick. De Vere spent most of his life on the estate and was closely involved in its management. He suffered much trouble from his ownership of the island of Lundy, which his father, who was not much of a businessman, had unwisely purchased in 1802, and which became a heavy drain on the family's finances. Sir Vere was never able to find a purchaser for Lundy, and it took his son until 1834 to dispose of it.\n\nSir Aubrey stood for election in the 1820 General Election and came in third with 2921 votes.\n\nHe changed his surname from Hunt to de Vere in 1832, in reference to his Earl of Oxford ancestors, dating back to Aubrey de Vere I, a tenant-in-chief in England of William the Conqueror in 1086. He served as High Sheriff of County Limerick in 1811.\n\nSir Aubrey was a poet. Wordsworth called his sonnets the most perfect of the age. These and his drama, \"Mary Tudor: An Historical Drama\", were published by his son the poet Mr. Aubrey Thomas de Vere in 1875 and 1884.\n\nDe Vere produced numerous works over his lifetime. The most notable are: \"Ode to the Duchess of Angouleme\" (1815), \"Julian the Apostate: A Dramatic Poem\" (1822), \"The Duke of Mercia: An Historical Drama\" [with] \"The Lamentation of Ireland, and Other Poems\" (1823), \"A Song of Faith: Devout Exercises and Sonnets\" and his most famous work, \"Mary Tudor: An Historical Drama\".\n\nIn \"A Book of Irish Verse\", W. B. Yeats described de Vere's poetry as having \"less architecture than the poetry of Ferguson and Allingham, and more meditation. Indeed, his few but ever memorable successes are enchanted islands in gray seas of stately impersonal reverie and description, which drift by and leave no definite recollection. One needs, perhaps, to perfectly enjoy him, a Dominican habit, a cloister, and a breviary.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39917187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39917187", "title": "Susan Beth Scott", "text": "Susan Beth Scott\n\nSusan Beth Scott is an American Paralympic swimmer.\n\nScott was born in Cape Girardeau, Missouri. She competed at World Championships in 2006 in South Africa, before moving to the Olympic Training Center to swim for Jimi Flowers. Her first Games participation was at the Beijing 2008 Paralympics where she won a bronze medal for 400 m freestyle and the same year became ESPY Award nominee for being the Best Female Athlete with a Disability. In 2009, Scott held a World record in 1500 m freestyle and next year won one golds for 34 point medley at 2010 World Championships. At the same place she also got a silver medal for 400 metre freestyle and a bronze one for 100 m backstroke. Couple of years later she received a silver and two bronze medals for her participation at 2012 Summer Paralympics in London. When she was 7 months old she was diagnosed with spina bifida and underwent surgery. Four years later she needed further surgery. At age 11 and 12 she participated in the 50-metre freestyle at the Central Municipal Pool where she finished twelfth and finished tenth in 800-metre freestyle as well.\n"}
{"id": "42160122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42160122", "title": "The World's Billionaires 2012", "text": "The World's Billionaires 2012\n\nThe World's Billionaires 2012 edition was 26th annual ranking of The World's Billionaires by \"Forbes\" magazine. The list estimated the net worth of the world's richest people, excluding royalty and dictators, as of February 14, 2012. It was released online on March 7, 2012.\n\nTelecommunications mogul Carlos Slim topped the 2012 list, marking this third consecutive year at the top. Microsoft founder Bill Gates placed second, but narrowed the gap from 2011 as Slim's fortune fell $5 billion while Gates' rose $5 billion. Investor Warren Buffett remained in third place. Bernard Arnault of France was the top-ranking European on the list, placing fourth. Amancio Ortega moved up a spot to number five, despite stepping down from Zara's top post during the year. Ricardo Salinas Pliego was the greatest gainer in terms of dollars, adding $9.2 billion to his fortune and moving up to number 37 overall. Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg was also among the top gainers, adding $4 billion to his fortune. Dustin Moskovitz, also of Facebook, was the youngest self-made billionaire on the list at age 27. Making her debut on the list at age 41, Spanx founder Sara Blakely became the youngest self-made female billionaire ever. Colombia's Alejandro Santo Domingo was the highest ranked newcomer, inheriting a $9.5 billion stake in Santo Domingo Group from his father. Laurene Powell Jobs, widow of Steve Jobs, was just behind Domingo, inheriting a fortune of $9 billion.\n\nIndia's Lakshmi Mittal was the largest loser as his fortune dropped from $31.1 billion to $20.7 billion as the price of steel maker ArcelorMittal fell sharply. As a result, he failed to make the top 10 for the first time since 2004 and lost his title of richest Asian. Hong Kong’s Li Ka-shing reclaimed that title, despite a slight drop in his own wealth. \"Harry Potter\" author JK Rowling and former Research In Motion CEO Jim Balsillie were among whose who fell off the list.\n\nA record total of 1,226 people made the 2012 list, representing 58 different countries. Of those, 126 were newcomers to the list and 104 were women. The United States had the greatest number of billionaires with 425. Russia had 96 people on the list, while China had 95. Three new billionaires from Morocco represented their nation, which did not have any billionaire in 2011. Georgia and Peru also were newly represented. Moscow was the home to the most billionaire with 78, followed by New York City with 58, and London with 39. Falling stock prices in Asia contributed to 117 former billionaires falling from the list worldwide. Twelve others listed in 2011 died.\n\nCombined net worth of the billionaire list rose to a record $4.6 trillion. However, net gainers (460) barely outnumbered net losers (441, including 7 of the top 20). The list average was a net worth of $3.7 billion.\n\nTo coincide with the release of the 2012 list, Forbes announced a new \"Billionaire Real-Time Ticker\" updating the wealth of the world's top fifty billionaires in real time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43568", "title": "Tom Hanks", "text": "Tom Hanks\n\nThomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Hanks is known for his comedic and dramatic roles in such films as \"Splash\" (1984), \"Big\" (1988), \"Turner & Hooch\" (1989), \"A League of Their Own\" (1992), \"Sleepless in Seattle\" (1993), \"Apollo 13\" (1995), \"You've Got Mail\" (1998), \"The Green Mile\" (1999), \"Cast Away\" (2000), \"Road to Perdition\" (2002), \"Cloud Atlas\" (2012), \"Captain Phillips\" (2013), \"Saving Mr. Banks\" (2013), and \"Sully\" (2016). He has also starred in the \"Robert Langdon\" film series, and voices Sheriff Woody in the \"Toy Story\" film series.\n\nHanks has collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films to date: \"Saving Private Ryan\" (1998), \"Catch Me If You Can\" (2002), \"The Terminal\" (2004), \"Bridge of Spies\" (2015), and \"The Post\" (2017), as well as the 2001 miniseries \"Band of Brothers\", which launched Hanks as a successful director, producer, and screenwriter. In 2010, Spielberg and Hanks were executive producers on the HBO miniseries \"The Pacific\".\n\nHanks' films have grossed more than $4.5 billion at U.S. and Canadian box offices and more than $9.0 billion worldwide, making him the fourth highest-grossing actor in North America. Hanks has been nominated for numerous awards during his career. He won a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in \"Philadelphia\" (1993), as well as a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People's Choice Award for Best Actor for \"Forrest Gump\" (1994). In 1995, Hanks became one of only two actors who won the Academy Award for Best Actor in consecutive years, with Spencer Tracy being the other. This feat has not been accomplished since. In 2004, he received the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA). In 2014, he received a Kennedy Center Honor, and in 2016, he received a Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama, as well as the French Legion of Honor.\n\nThomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (\"née\" Frager) and itinerant cook Amos Mefford Hanks. His mother was of Portuguese descent (her family's surname was originally \"Fraga\"), while his father had English ancestry. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (an entomology professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.\n\nWhile Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, he has characterized his teenage self as being a \"Bible-toting evangelical\" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, \"I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible.\" In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including \"South Pacific\", while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.\n\nHanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento, two years later. During a 2001 interview with Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told \"New York\" magazine in 1986, \"Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that.\"\n\nDuring his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's \"The Two Gentlemen of Verona\", one of the few times he played a villain. \"Time\" magazine named Hanks one of the \"Top 10 College Dropouts.\"\n\nIn 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film \"He Knows You're Alone\" (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie \"Mazes and Monsters\". Early that year, he was cast in the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's \"The Mandrake\", directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of \"Bosom Buddies\". He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show \"Make Me Laugh\". After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. \"Bosom Buddies\" ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. \"The first day I saw him on the set,\" co-producer Ian Praiser told \"Rolling Stone\", \"I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years.\" However, although Praiser knew it, he was not able to convince Hanks. \"The television show had come out of nowhere,\" Hanks' best friend Tom Lizzio told \"Rolling Stone\".\n\n\"Bosom Buddies\" and a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of \"Happy Days\" (\"A Case of Revenge,\" in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) prompted director Ron Howard to contact Hanks. Howard was working on the film \"Splash\" (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in \"Splash\", which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy \"Bachelor Party\", also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on \"Family Ties\" as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother, Ned Donnelly.\n\nWith \"Nothing in Common\" (1986) – a story of a young man alienated from his father (played by Jackie Gleason) – Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles. In an interview with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, Hanks commented on his experience: \"It changed my desires about working in movies. Part of it was the nature of the material, what we were trying to say. But besides that, it focused on people's relationships. The story was about a guy and his father, unlike, say, \"The Money Pit\", where the story is really about a guy and his house.\"\nAfter a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy \"Dragnet\", Hanks' stature in the film industry rose. The broad success of the fantasy comedy \"Big\" (1988) established Hanks as a major Hollywood talent, both as a box office draw and within the industry as an actor. For his performance in the film, Hanks earned his first nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor. \"Big\" was followed later that year by \"Punchline\", in which he and Sally Field co-starred as struggling comedians.\n\nHanks then suffered a run of box-office underperformers: \"The 'Burbs\" (1989), \"Joe Versus the Volcano\" (1990), and \"The Bonfire of the Vanities\" (1990). In the last, he portrayed a greedy Wall Street figure who gets enmeshed in a hit-and-run accident. 1989's \"Turner & Hooch\" was Hanks' only financially successful film of the period.\n\nHanks climbed back to the top again with his portrayal of a washed-up baseball legend turned manager in \"A League of Their Own\" (1992). Hanks has stated that his acting in earlier roles was not great, but that he subsequently improved. In an interview with \"Vanity Fair\", Hanks noted his \"modern era of moviemaking ... because enough self-discovery has gone on ... My work has become less pretentiously fake and over the top\". This \"modern era\" began in 1993 for Hanks, first with \"Sleepless in Seattle\" and then with \"Philadelphia\". The former was a blockbuster success about a widower who finds true love over the radio airwaves. Richard Schickel of \"TIME\" called his performance \"charming,\" and most critics agreed that Hanks' portrayal ensured him a place among the premier romantic-comedy stars of his generation.\n\nIn \"Philadelphia\", he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination. Hanks lost 35 pounds and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role. In a review for \"People\", Leah Rozen stated, \"Above all, credit for \"Philadelphia\"s success belongs to Hanks, who makes sure that he plays a character, not a saint. He is flat-out terrific, giving a deeply felt, carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar.\" Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in \"Philadelphia\". During his acceptance speech, he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson, two people with whom he was close, were gay.\n\nHanks followed \"Philadelphia\" with the 1994 hit \"Forrest Gump\" which grossed a worldwide total of over $600 million at the box office. Hanks remarked: \"When I read the script for \"Gump\", I saw it as one of those kind of grand, hopeful movies that the audience can go to and feel ... some hope for their lot and their position in life ... I got that from the movies a hundred million times when I was a kid. I still do.\" Hanks won his second Best Actor Academy Award for his role in \"Forrest Gump\", becoming only the second actor to have accomplished the feat of winning consecutive Best Actor Oscars. (Spencer Tracy was the first, winning in 1937–38. Hanks and Tracy were the same age at the time they received their Academy Awards: 37 for the first and 38 for the second.)\n\nHanks' next role—astronaut and commander Jim Lovell, in the 1995 film \"Apollo 13\"—reunited him with Ron Howard. Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast, which included actors Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Gary Sinise, Ed Harris, and Kathleen Quinlan. The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations, winning two. Later that year, Hanks starred in Disney/Pixar's CGI-animated hit film \"Toy Story\", as the voice of Sheriff Woody.\nHanks made his directing debut with his 1996 film \"That Thing You Do!\" about a 1960s pop group, also playing the role of a music producer. Hanks and producer Gary Goetzman went on to create Playtone, a record and film production company named after the record company in the film.\n\nHanks then executive produced, co-wrote, and co-directed the HBO docudrama \"From the Earth to the Moon\". The 12-part series chronicled the space program from its inception, through the familiar flights of Neil Armstrong and Jim Lovell, to the personal feelings surrounding the reality of moon landings. The Emmy Award-winning project was, at US$68 million, one of the most expensive ventures undertaken for television.\n\nIn 1998, Hanks' next project was no less expensive. For \"Saving Private Ryan\", he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war-torn France after D-Day to bring back a soldier. It earned the praise and respect of the film community, critics, and the general public. It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction, and Hanks another Best Actor nomination. Later that year, Hanks re-teamed with his \"Sleepless in Seattle\" co-star Meg Ryan for \"You've Got Mail\", a remake of 1940's \"The Shop Around the Corner\". In 1999, Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel \"The Green Mile\". He also returned as the voice of Woody in \"Toy Story 2\", the sequel to \"Toy Story\". The following year, he won a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award nomination for his portrayal of a marooned FedEx systems analyst in Robert Zemeckis's \"Cast Away\".\n\nIn 2001, Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy-Award-winning HBO miniseries \"Band of Brothers\". He also appeared in the September 11 television special \"\" and the documentary \"Rescued From the Closet\". He then teamed up with \"American Beauty\" director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins's and Richard Piers Rayner's graphic novel \"Road to Perdition\", in which he played an anti-hero role as a hitman on the run with his son. That same year, Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg, starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama \"Catch Me If You Can\", based on the true story of Frank Abagnale, Jr. The same year, Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie \"My Big Fat Greek Wedding\". In August 2007, he along with co-producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman, and writer and star Nia Vardalos, initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie. At the age of 45, Hanks became the youngest-ever recipient of the American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award on June 12, 2002.\nIn 2004, he appeared in three films: The Coen brothers' \"The Ladykillers\", another Spielberg film, \"The Terminal\", and \"The Polar Express\", a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles. In a \"USA Weekend\" interview, Hanks discussed how he chooses projects: \"[Since] \"A League of Their Own\", it can't be just another movie for me. It has to get me going somehow ... There has to be some all-encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie. I'd like to assume that I'm willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right\". In August 2005, Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.\n\nHanks next starred in the highly anticipated film \"The Da Vinci Code\", based on the best-selling novel by Dan Brown. The film was released May 19, 2006, in the U.S. and grossed over US$750 million worldwide. He followed the film with Ken Burns's 2007 documentary \"The War\". For the documentary, Hanks did voice work, reading excerpts from World War II-era columns by Al McIntosh. In 2006, Hanks topped a 1,500-strong list of \"most trusted celebrities\" compiled by \"Forbes\" magazine. Hanks also produced the animated children's movie The Ant Bully in 2006.\n\nHanks next appeared in a cameo role as himself in \"The Simpsons Movie\", in which he appeared in an advertisement claiming that the U.S. government has lost its credibility and is hence buying some of his. He also made an appearance in the credits, expressing a desire to be left alone when he is out in public. Later in 2006, Hanks produced the British film \"Starter for Ten\", a comedy based on working-class students attempting to win on \"University Challenge\".\n\nIn 2007, Hanks starred in Mike Nichols's film \"Charlie Wilson's War\" (written by screenwriter Aaron Sorkin) in which he played Democratic Texas Congressman Charles Wilson. The film opened on December 21, 2007, and Hanks received a Golden Globe nomination. In the comedy-drama film \"The Great Buck Howard\" (2008), Hanks played the on-screen father of a young man (played by Hanks' real-life son, Colin) who chooses to work as road manager for a fading mentalist (John Malkovich). His character was less than thrilled about his son's career decision. In the same year, he executive produced the musical comedy, \"Mamma Mia\" and the miniseries, \"John Adams\".\n\nHanks' next endeavor, released on May 15, 2009, was a film adaptation of \"Angels & Demons\", based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown. Its April 11, 2007, announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon, and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor. The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC's \"Saturday Night Live\", impersonating himself for the \"Celebrity Jeopardy\" sketch. Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film \"Where The Wild Things Are\", based on the children's book by Maurice Sendak in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Hanks reprised his voice role of Woody in \"Toy Story 3\", after he, Tim Allen, and John Ratzenberger were invited to a movie theater to see a complete story reel of the movie. The film went on to become the first animated film to gross a worldwide total of over $1 billion as well as the highest-grossing animated film at the time. He also was executive producer of the miniseries, \"The Pacific\".\n\nIn 2011, he directed and starred opposite Julia Roberts in the title role in the romantic comedy \"Larry Crowne\". The movie received poor reviews, with only 35% of the 175 Rotten Tomatoes reviews giving it high ratings. Also in 2011, he starred in the drama film \"Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close\". In 2012, he voiced the character Cleveland Carr for a web series he created titled \"Electric City\". He also starred in the Wachowskis-directed film adaptation of the novel of the same name, \"Cloud Atlas\" and was executive producer of the miniseries \"Game Change\".\n\nIn 2013, Hanks starred in two critically acclaimed films—\"Captain Phillips \"and\" Saving Mr. Banks—\"which each earned him praise, including nominations for the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama for the former role. In \"Captain Phillips\", he starred as Captain Richard Phillips with Barkhad Abdi, which was based on the Maersk Alabama hijacking. In \"Saving Mr. Banks\", co-starring Emma Thompson and directed by John Lee Hancock, he played Walt Disney, being the first actor to portray Disney in a mainstream film. That same year, Hanks made his Broadway debut, starring in Nora Ephron's \"Lucky Guy\", for which he was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play.\n\nIn 2014, Hanks' short story \"Alan Bean Plus Four\" was published in the October 27 issue of \"The New Yorker\". Revolving around four friends who make a voyage to the moon, the short story is titled after the Apollo 12 astronaut Alan Bean. \"Slate\" magazine's Katy Waldman found Hanks' first published short story \"mediocre\", writing that \"Hanks' shopworn ideas about technology might have yet sung if they hadn't been wrapped in too-clever lit mag-ese\". In an interview with \"The New Yorker\", Hanks said he has always been fascinated by space. He told the magazine that he built plastic models of rockets when he was a child and watched live broadcasts of space missions back in the 1960s.\n\nIn March 2015, Hanks appeared in the Carly Rae Jepsen music video for \"I Really Like You\", lip-syncing most of the song's lyrics as he goes through his daily routine. His next film was the Steven Spielberg-directed historical drama \"Bridge of Spies\", in which he played lawyer James B. Donovan who negotiated for the release of pilot Francis Gary Powers by the Soviet Union in exchange for KGB spy Rudolf Abel. It was released in October 2015 to a positive reception. In April 2016, Hanks starred as Alan Clay in the comedy-drama \"A Hologram for the King\", an adaptation of the 2012 novel of the same name.\n\nHanks starred as airline captain Chesley Sullenberger in Clint Eastwood's \"Sully\", which was released in September 2016. He next reprised his role as Robert Langdon in \"Inferno\" (2016), and co-starred alongside Emma Watson in the 2017 science fiction drama \"The Circle\". He voiced David S. Pumpkins in \"The David S. Pumpkins Animated Halloween Special\", which aired October 28, 2017, on NBC, a character he had portrayed in episodes of \"Saturday Night Live\".\n\nHanks will star as Commander Ernest Krause in \"Greyhound\", a war film to be directed by Aaron Schneider. The film is slated for release on March 22, 2019 by Sony Pictures. Next, Hanks will reprise his voice role as Sheriff Woody in Pixar's \"Toy Story 4\", set for release on June 21, 2019. Then, Hanks will portray Fred Rogers in Marielle Heller's biographical film \"You Are My Friend\". The film will be released on October 18, 2019, by Sony Pictures.\n\nIn October 2017, Hanks signed on to star as Finch, the last surviving man on Earth, in the science fiction drama \"Bios\". Principal production will commence in February 2019. The film is set to be released on October 2, 2020 by Universal Pictures.\n\nHanks was married to American actress Samantha Lewes from 1978. They had one son, actor Colin Hanks (born 1977), and one daughter, Elizabeth Hanks (born 1982).\n\nIn 1981, Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy \"Bosom Buddies\" (1980–1982). They were reunited in 1985 on the set of \"Volunteers\".\n\nHanks and Samantha Lewes divorced in 1987.\n\nHanks married Wilson in 1988. They have two sons. The oldest, Chester Marlon \"Chet\" Hanks, had a minor role as a student in \"Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull\" and released a rap song in 2011. Their youngest, Truman Theodore, was born in 1995.\n\nBefore marrying Wilson, Hanks converted to the Greek Orthodox Church, the religion of Wilson and her family. He said, \"I must say that when I go to church—and I do go to church—I ponder the mystery. I meditate on the 'why?' of 'why people are as they are' and 'why bad things happen to good people,' and 'why good things happen to bad people' ... The mystery is what I think is, almost, the grand unifying theory of all mankind.\"\n\nOn October 7, 2013, on \"The Late Show with David Letterman\", Hanks announced that he has Type 2 diabetes.\n\nHanks supports same-sex marriage, environmental causes, and alternative fuels. He has donated to many Democratic politicians, and during the 2008 United States presidential election uploaded a video to his MySpace account endorsing Barack Obama. He also narrated a 2012 documentary, \"The Road We've Traveled,\" created by Obama for America. In 2016, Hanks endorsed Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nHanks was outspoken about his opposition to the 2008 Proposition 8, an amendment to the California constitution that defined marriage as a union only between a man and a woman. Hanks and others raised over US$44 million to campaign against the proposition, in contrast to the supporters' $39 million, but Proposition 8 passed with 52% of the vote. It was overruled in June 2013, when the Ninth Circuit lifted its stay of the district court's ruling, enabling Governor Jerry Brown to order same-sex marriage officiations to resume. While premiering a TV series in January 2009, Hanks called supporters of Proposition 8 \"un-American\" and criticized the LDS Church members, who were major proponents of the bill, for their views on marriage and role in supporting the bill. About a week later, he apologized for the remark, saying that nothing is more American than voting one's conscience.\n\nA proponent of environmentalism, Hanks is an investor in electric vehicles and owns a Toyota RAV4 EV and the first production AC Propulsion eBox. He was a lessee of an EV1 before it was recalled, as chronicled in the documentary \"Who Killed the Electric Car?\" He was on the waiting list for an Aptera 2 Series.\n\nHanks serves as campaign chair of the Hidden Heroes Campaign of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation. The stated mission of the campaign is to inspire a national movement to more effectively support the military and veteran caregivers.\n\nA supporter of NASA's manned space program, Hanks said he originally wanted to be an astronaut. Hanks is a member of the National Space Society, serving on the Board of governors of the nonprofit educational space advocacy organization founded by Wernher von Braun. He also produced the HBO miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" about the Apollo program to send astronauts to the moon. In addition, Hanks co-wrote and co-produced \"\", an IMAX film about the moon landings. Hanks provided the voice-over for the premiere of the show \"Passport to the Universe\" at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History in New York.\n\nIn 2006, the Space Foundation awarded Hanks the Douglas S. Morrow Public Outreach Award, given annually to an individual or organization that has made significant contributions to public awareness of space programs.\n\nIn June 2006, Hanks was inducted as an honorary member of the United States Army Rangers Hall of Fame for his accurate portrayal of a captain in the movie \"Saving Private Ryan\"; Hanks, who was unable to attend the induction ceremony, was the first actor to receive such an honor. In addition to his role in \"Saving Private Ryan\", Hanks was cited for serving as the national spokesperson for the World War II Memorial Campaign, for being the honorary chairperson of the D-Day Museum Capital Campaign, and for his role in writing and helping to produce the Emmy Award–winning miniseries, \"Band of Brothers\". On March 10, 2008, Hanks was on hand at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame to induct The Dave Clark Five.\n\nHanks is a collector of manual typewriters and uses them almost daily. In August 2014, Hanks released Hanx Writer, an iOS app meant to emulate the experience of using a typewriter; within days the free app reached number one on the App Store.\n\nIn November 2014, Hanks said he would publish a collection of short stories inspired by his typewriter collection. The book, \"Uncommon Type\", was published in 2017.\n\nHanks is perceived to be amiable and congenial to his fans. He has frequently been referred to as \"America's Dad\". In 2013, when he was starring in Nora Ephron's \"Lucky Guy\" on Broadway, he had crowds of 300 fans waiting for a glimpse of him after every performance. This is the highest number of expectant fans post-show of any Broadway performance.\n\nHanks is ranked as the fourth highest all-time box office star in North America, with a total gross of over $4.5 billion at the North American box office, an average of $100.8 million per film. Worldwide, his films have grossed over $9.0 billion.\n\nAsteroid is named after him.\n\n\n\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Introduction_to_referencing_with_Wiki_Markup/1\n"}
{"id": "46762762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46762762", "title": "Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji", "text": "Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji\n\nToyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji (born Oluwatoyosi Akerele, 8 November 1983) is a Nigerian social entrepreneur and human development expert whose work cuts across entrepreneurship, education, youth development and public leadership. She is the founder and chief executive officer of Rise Networks, a Nigeria-based private and public sector funded Youth Interest social enterprise focused on using tech innovation to create advocacy and learning opportunities for the inclusive growth of youths with the core objective of preparing them for leadership and social change. She is also the founder of Passnownow, a mobile learning portal with access to curriculum-based education content with standardized assessments and exam review questions in digital format distributed via web and mobile to underserved high school students and teachers.\n\nAkerele-Ogunsiji was in June 2011 described by Michelle Obama, then First Lady of the United States, as one of her personal inspirations in a televised address to America as a prelude to her arrival in Africa for the Young African Women Leaders Forum of which Akerele-Ogunsiji remains the only Nigerian member to date. In 2014, Forbes named Akerele-Ogunsiji as one of the 20 most Powerful Young Women in Africa. In the same year, she was also nominated for the MTV Africa Music Awards.\n\nAkerele-Ogunsiji was born to the Family of James Ayodele and Felicia Mopelola Akerele in Lagos State, Nigeria. She attended Ebun Oluwa Nursery and Primary School, Oregun Lagos from where she headed to Lagos State Model College Kankon Badagry, Lagos for her Junior Secondary Education from 1994 to 1996 before proceeding to Egbado College (now Yewa College) from 1998 till June 2000 for her Senior Secondary Education where she graduated as the best Student in the Essay Competition organised by the Aionian Group of Schools in Ogun State. She obtained a Second Class Upper Degree in Civil Law from the University of Jos in April 2007. Akerele-Ogunsiji is A Mason Fellow and Mid Career Master in Public Administration alumnus of the Harvard University Kennedy School of Government.\n\nShe studied Strategic Management at Executive Level at Cambridge University’s Judge Business School, obtained a Certificate in Youth Inclusive Financial Services from University of New Hampshire, Durham, United States, holds a Certificate in Media Enterprise from the School of Media and Communication, Pan Atlantic University and an Executive Masters’ Certificate in Project Management from The Project Management College, UK. She has also studied Digital Marketing Strategy at the UK Institute of Digital Marketing.\n\nAkerele-Ogunsiji started her career in 2007 as a Corporate Communications and External Affairs Executive at Oando Oil and Gas PLC. She moved on to the Ministry of Youths and Social Development, Ogun State, Nigeria where she was the Special Assistant to the Honourable Commissioner on Youth Development before going on to establish Rise Human And Education Development Networks, an organisation that focuses on creating intellectual development and capacity building programs for young Nigerians between 16 and 30.\n\nAkerele-Ogunsiji founded Passnownow in 2012 with the aim of helping indigent and deprived secondary school children to access and use Curriculum Compliant Education Content, from the comfort of Mobile Devices. She also founded, Printmagicng, a Printing firm that delivers 24 hours Printing Service at low cost to Small Businesses via the Internet.\n\nin 2017, Akerele-Ogunsiji led international students of the Harvard Kennedy School of Government and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to a one week Public Sector and Innovation Field Trip in, Lagos, Nigeria. The trip was described as providing \"a veritable platform for Engagement for Harvard Students and Faculty to learn more about Urban Development and Innovation, Economic Competitiveness, Democratic Governance and emerging Trends in the Public Policies of Lagos and Nigeria.”\n\nIn 2014 she married Adekunle Ogunsiji, an ICT professional, in a low key wedding at her family house in Ikeja, Lagos.\n\nAkerele-Ogunsiji had several papers and publications on leadership, youth and business development, including authoring:\n\n\nHer writings and interviews have been published in \"The Nation\", the \"Nigerian Guardian\", \"The Punch\" and \"This Day\" newspapers.\n\n\nShe has delivered Papers and presentations as well as led focused group discussions at the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Women in Management, Business and Public Sector, Youth Africamp organized annually by Open Society Institute of East Africa, Women of West African Entrepreneurship, Africa Wide Consultation on Post 2015 Development Agenda and Expert Group Meeting, and the United Nations Media Workshop on Africa Governance Report. Her media commentary and interviews include appearances on Channels Television, BET, Nigerian Television Authority, Africa Independent Television and South African Broadcasting Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "47207188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47207188", "title": "Umesh Reddy", "text": "Umesh Reddy\n\nUmesh Reddy (born 1969) is a serial rapist and killer from India. He confessed to killing 18 women, and was convicted in 9 cases. The police believe that he raped at least 20 women in the states of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat. They also suspect that several of his crimes have not been reported, because the victims feared social stigma.\n\nReddy has been sentenced to death by the Supreme Court of India, and is currently on death row.\n\nUmesh Reddy was born BA Umesh in 1969, in Basappa Malige, a village in Chitradurga district, Karnataka.\n\nAfter being selected in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), he was posted in Jammu and Kashmir. While on duty as a guard at the house of a commandant, he attempted to rape the commandant's daughter. He then fled to Chitradurga district. In 1996, he managed to join the District Armed Reserve (DAR) Police, who were not aware of his background in CRPF. Reddy had been charged in a road rage incident, but the local DAR inspector chose to ignore this \"petty case\". Reddy completed his police training in Madhya Pradesh, and then returned to Karnataka.\n\nReddy carefully selected his victims. He usually targeted housewives between 11 am and 3 pm, when there would be no men at home. He would gain entry into the victims' house on the pretext of asking for water or an address. He then threatened them with a knife, forced them to remove their clothes, tied them up, and raped them. He often choked his victims, and raped them while they were unconscious. After the rape, Reddy killed his victims, and removed their jewelry to make the crime appear like a robbery. He then escaped with the victim's undergarments. A transvestite, Reddy was found wearing women's lingerie under his clothes, whenever the police arrested him.\n\nIn November 1996, Reddy attempted raping a high school girl, who was walking at KEB Colony in Chitradurga. The girl hit him with a stone, and managed to escape. On 6 December 1996, Reddy allegedly raped and murdered 16-year old Roopa, when she was returning to her house in the same locality. The next month, he was arrested and dismissed from service, when his first victim identified him at a Republic Day police parade by chance.\n\nReddy, along with four others, was charged with Roopa's murder, and remanded to judicial custody (later, in 2004, he was acquitted in this case due to lack of sufficient evidence). A court asked him to be shifted to Bellary jail. In March 1997, while the Chitradurga police were handing him over to the Bellary prison authorities, Reddy escaped. He then killed an income tax officer's wife in Bangalore, a girl in Ahmedabad, two girls in Baroda and a widow in Kunigal.\n\nReddy would steal lingerie put up for drying in the backyards of houses. On 7 July 1997, he was arrested by Peenya police for stealing women's undergarments. When the police raided his room, they recovered a gunny bag full of lingerie. At the time of his arrest in Peenya, he told the police that his name was \"Ramesh\". Reddy escaped within 24 hours, while being transferred to the MICO Layout police station for interrogation in another case. The police initially tried to hush up his escape, but Reddy's father filed a habeas corpus petition in the High Court. Two police personnel were then suspended, and a lookout notice was issued in the name of Ramesh.\n\nOn 28 February 1998, Reddy raped and murdered 37-year-old widow Jayashree Maradi Subbaiah in Peenya. The police believe that he repeatedly raped the dead body. When her 8-year-old son Suresh returned from school, he saw Reddy in his house. Reddy told the boy that an evil spirit had entered his mother's body, so he had tied her to the window grill. He then fled saying that he was going to get a doctor. Reddy then attempted to rape another woman in Peenya. When the woman raised the alarm, he tried to escape by jumping from the first floor of the house. He sprained his ankle, and was caught by the neighbours, who handed him over to the police.\n\nIn 1999, Reddy once again escaped from the police custody near Hirekerur. Before he could commit any crime, he was arrested by inspector Nyame Gowda, in Chikkaballapur.\n\nOn the night of 3–4 March 2002, Reddy escaped from police custody again, while being transferred from Bellary to Bangalore in a KSRTC bus. The District Armed Reserve (DAR) personnel of Bellary, who accompanied him, claimed that he was handcuffed at the time, but Reddy denied this when he was arrested two months later. He stated that he bought rum and chicken for the policemen, and earned their trust. When the bus stopped at a dhaba near Hiriyur bypass, he requested the policemen to remove his handcuffs on the pretext that he needed to answer the call of nature. Once free, he ran into the fields and escaped.\n\nOver the next two months, Reddy raped three girls in Davangere, Hubli-Dharwad and Pune. He also stole three mobile phones and two credit cards. He worked as a waiter in a Pune hotel. He stole cash and clothes from there, and then fled to Dharwad.\n\nOn 17 May 2002, Reddy arrived in Bangalore from Tumkur, and left his luggage in the cloakroom at the Yeshwanthpur railway station. Around 8 am, he visited a salon in Yeshwanthpur area, to get a haircut and a clean shave. As he entered the salon, an auto-rickshaw driver Sathyavelu recognized him from a newspaper photograph and an earlier court appearance. The driver called his elder brother Rajendran from a telephone booth, and asked him to fetch the police. Meanwhile, he kept a vigil outside the salon. When Reddy exited the salon and started walking towards the railway station, Sathyavelu tipped off the police and followed him. Inspector Nagaraja Urs intercepted Reddy near Sharief Nagar and arrested him. At first Reddy claimed to be somebody else, but admitted that he was the serial killer, after being taken to the police station. The police rewarded the driver with 20,000. Reddy was found wearing a bra and panties. His baggage, seized from the cloakroom, contained several women's garments: 18 pairs of panties, 10 bras, 8 churidars, 6 saris, 4 blouses and 2 nighties.\n\nReddy was tried and convicted in 9 cases, including rape of Jayashree Subbaiah. He was acquitted in 11 cases due to lack of sufficient evidence. On 26 October 2006, Judge K Sukanya of the Bangalore city fast-track court gave him multiple sentences including a death sentence, a 7-year sentence plus 25,000 fine and a 10-year sentence plus 25,000 fine. Reddy tried to win the judge's mercy by saying that he wanted to study and take care of his mother, but the judge did not relent. Since the death sentence was the heaviest sentence, the case was referred to the High Court as per procedure.\n\nOn 4 October 2007, a division bench of the Karnataka High Court also convicted Reddy, but the judges differed on death sentence. Justice V G Sabhahit upheld the death penalty, but Justice Ravi B Naik advocated rigorous imprisonment for life with no scope for amnesty. A third judge, Justice S. R. Bannurmath, was appointed to resolve the tie. On 18 February 2009, Bannurmath upheld the death sentence, and thus, the High Court confirmed death penalty for Umesh Reddy. On 1 February 2011, the Supreme Court also upheld the death sentence. Justices Altamas Kabir and A K Pathak argued that Reddy was incapable of rehabilitation, and that his rape and murder of Jayashree fell under \"rarest of the rare\" category, a requirement for capital punishment in India.\n\nReddy immediately filed a mercy petition before the President of India. On 7 May 2012, the Government of Karnataka rejected Reddy's mercy plea. Subsequently, the President of India also rejected his mercy petition on 12 May 2013. Reddy then filed a fresh petition, which is now pending before a Supreme Court constitution bench.\n\nThe Kannada language movie \"Umesh\" (2013) is a fictionalized version of Umesh Reddy's life. \"Khatarnak\" or \"Khatarnak Umesh Reddy\" (2013), another Kannada movie, was also based on Umesh Reddy's life.. His character was also portrayed by Adi Lokesh in Dandupalya 2 & Dandupalya 3, where he is seen as one of the inmates of Dandupalya gang in Hindalga Prison\n\n"}
{"id": "380656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380656", "title": "William H. Crawford", "text": "William H. Crawford\n\nWilliam Harris Crawford (February 24, 1772 – September 15, 1834) was an American politician and judge during the early 19th century. He served as United States Secretary of War and United States Secretary of the Treasury before running for president in the 1824 election.\n\nBorn in Virginia, Crawford moved to Georgia at a young age. After studying law, Crawford won election to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1803. He aligned with the Democratic-Republican Party and U.S. Senator James Jackson. In 1807, the Georgia legislature elected Crawford to the United States Senate. After the death of Vice President George Clinton, Crawford's position as president pro tempore of the Senate made him first in the presidential line of succession from April 1812 to March 1813. In 1813, President James Madison appointed Crawford as the U.S. minister to France, and Crawford held that post for the remainder of the War of 1812. After the war, Madison appointed him to the position of Secretary of War. In October 1816, Madison chose Crawford for the position of Secretary of the Treasury, and Crawford would remain in that office for the remainder of Madison's presidency and for the duration of James Monroe's presidency.\n\nCrawford suffered a severe stroke in 1823, but nonetheless sought to succeed Monroe in the 1824 election. The Democratic-Republican Party splintered into factions as several others also sought the presidency. No candidate won a majority of the electoral vote, so the United States House of Representatives chose the president in a contingent election. Under the terms of the Constitution, the House selected from the three candidates who received the most electoral votes, leaving Andrew Jackson, John Quincy Adams, and Crawford in the running. The House selected Adams, who asked Crawford to remain at Treasury. Refusing Adams' offer, Crawford accepted appointment to the Georgia state superior court. He considered running in the 1832 presidential election, either for the presidency or the vice presidency, but ultimately chose not to run.\n\nCrawford was born on February 24, 1772 in the portion of Amherst County, Virginia that later became Nelson County, the son of Joel Crawford and Fanny Harris, but at least one source has given his birthplace as Tusculum, a house whose site remains in Amherst County. He moved with his family to Edgefield County, South Carolina in 1779 and to Columbia County, Georgia in 1783. Crawford was educated at private schools in Georgia and at Richmond Academy in Augusta. After his father's death, Crawford became the family's main financial provider, and he worked on the Crawford family farm and taught school. He later studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1799 and began to practice in Lexington. Also in 1799, Crawford was appointed by the state legislature to prepare a digest of Georgia's statutes.\n\nHe influenced Georgia politics for decades. In 1803, Crawford was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives as a member of the Democratic-Republican Party, and he served until 1807. He allied himself with Senator James Jackson. Their enemies were the Clarkites, led by John Clark. In 1802, he shot and killed Peter Lawrence Van Alen, a Clark ally, in a duel. Four years later, on December 16, 1806, Crawford faced Clark himself in a duel, and Crawford's left wrist was shattered by a shot from Clark, but he eventually recovered.\n\nIn 1807, Crawford joined the 10th United States Congress as the junior U.S. Senator from Georgia when the Georgia legislature elected him to replace George Jones, who had held the office for a few months after the death of Abraham Baldwin.\n\nCrawford was elected President pro tempore of the Senate in March 1812, and then, following the April 20, 1812 death of Vice President George Clinton, Crawford, served as the permanent presiding officer of the United States Senate through March 4, 1813.\n\nIn 1811, Crawford declined to serve as Secretary of War in the Madison administration. In the Senate, he voted for several acts leading up to the War of 1812, and he supported the entry into the war, but he was ready for peace: \"Let it then be the wisdom of this nation to remain at peace, as long as peace is within its option.\"\n\nIn 1813, President James Madison appointed Crawford as the US minister to France during the waning years of the First French Empire; Crawford held that ministerial post until 1815, shortly after the end of the war.\n\nUpon Crawford's return, Madison appointed him as Secretary of War. After slightly more than a year of satisfactory service in that post and after disclaiming interest in the 1816 presidential race as the Democratic-Republican nomination, Crawford moved within the Cabinet to become Secretary of the Treasury. He remained in that position through the rest of Madison's term and James Monroe's entire administration, which ended in 1825.\n\nCrawford was again a leading candidate for the Democratic-Republican presidential nomination in the 1824 election. However, Crawford was put out of the running due to a paralyzing stroke he had suffered in 1823 as a result of a prescription given to him by his physician. The Democratic-Republican Party was now split, and one of the splinter groups nominated Crawford.\n\nDespite Crawford's improved health (and the support of former Presidents Madison and Thomas Jefferson), he finished third in the electoral vote, behind Battle of New Orleans hero Andrew Jackson and Secretary of State John Quincy Adams. He thus was still in the nominal running when the Presidential election ended up in the House of Representatives because the Twelfth Amendment allows the House to choose one of the top three candidates. His stroke ended whatever chance he had of winning.\n\nRefusing Adams' request for him to remain at the Treasury, Crawford then returned to Georgia, where he was appointed as a state superior court judge. Crawford remained an active judge until his death, a decade later.\n\nCrawford was nominated for vice president by the Georgia legislature in 1828 but withdrew after support from other states was not forthcoming. Crawford also considered running for vice president in 1832 but decided against it, in favor of Martin Van Buren. Crawford also considered running for president again in 1832 but dropped the idea when Jackson decided to seek a second term.\n\nCrawford is buried at the site of his home, about half a mile west of the current Crawford city limit.\n\nDuring the 1820s, Crawford was a member of the prestigious society Columbian Institute for the Promotion of Arts and Sciences, which had among its members former Presidents Andrew Jackson and John Quincy Adams.\n\nCrawford also served as a Vice President in the American Colonization Society from its formation in 1817 to his death.\n\nCrawford was a descendent of John Crawford (1600–1676), who had come to Virginia in 1643 but participated and died in Bacon's Rebellion. John's son David Crawford I (1625–1698), was the father of David Crawford II (1662–1762), and the grandfather of David Crawford III (1697–1766). David Crawford III married Ann Anderson in 1727 and had 13 children, including Joel Crawford (1736–1788).\n\nHis cousin George W. Crawford served as Secretary of War under President Zachary Taylor.\n\nIn 1875, Crawford appeared on the 50 cent bill.\n\nThe following places are named in his honor:\n\n\n\n\n"}
