{"id": "34638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34638", "title": "401(k)", "text": "401(k)\n\nIn the United States, a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, retirement savings contributions are provided (and sometimes proportionately matched) by an employer, deducted from the employee's paycheck before taxation (therefore tax-deferred until withdrawn after retirement or as otherwise permitted by applicable law), and limited to a maximum pre-tax annual contribution of $18,500 (as of 2018).\n\nOther employer-provided defined-contribution plans include 403(b) plans for nonprofit institutions, 457(b) plans for governmental employers, and 401(a) plans. These plans may provide total annual addition of $55,000 (as of 2018) per plan participant, including both employee and employer contributions.\n\nIn the early 1970s a group of high-earning individuals from Kodak approached Congress to allow a part of their salary to be invested in the stock market and thus be exempt from income taxes. This resulted in section 401(k) being inserted in the then taxation regulations that allowed this to be done. The section of the Internal Revenue Code that made such 401(k) plans possible was enacted into law in 1978. It was intended to allow taxpayers a break on taxes on deferred income. In 1980, a benefits consultant and attorney named Ted Benna took note of the previously obscure provision and figured out that it could be used to create a simple, tax-advantaged way to save for retirement. The client for whom he was working at the time chose not to create a 401(k) plan. He later went on to install the first 401(k) plan at his own employer, the Johnson Companies (today doing business as Johnson Kendall & Johnson). At the time, employees could contribute 25% of their salary, up to $30,000 per year, to their employer's 401(k) plan.\n\nIncome taxes on pre-tax contributions and investment earnings in the form of interest and dividends are tax deferred. The ability to defer income taxes to a period where one's tax rates may be lower is a potential benefit of the 401(k) plan. The ability to defer income taxes has no benefit when the participant is subject to the same tax rates in retirement as when the original contributions were made or interest and dividends earned. Earnings from investments in a 401(k) account in the form of capital gains are not subject to capital gains taxes. This ability to avoid this second level of tax is a primary benefit of the 401(k) plan. Relative to investing outside of 401(k) plans, more income tax is paid but less taxes are paid overall with the 401(k) due to the ability to avoid taxes on capital gains.\n\nFor pre-tax contributions, the employee does not pay federal income tax on the amount of current income he or she defers to a 401(k) account, but does still pay the total 7.65% payroll taxes (social security and medicare). For example, a worker who otherwise earns $50,000 in a particular year and defers $3,000 into a 401(k) account that year only reports $47,000 in income on that year's tax return. Currently this would represent a near-term $750 saving in taxes for a single worker, assuming the worker remained in the 25% marginal tax bracket and there were no other adjustments (like deductions). The employee ultimately pays taxes on the money as he or she withdraws the funds, generally during retirement. The character of any gains (including tax-favored capital gains) is transformed into \"ordinary income\" at the time the money is withdrawn.\n\nBeginning in the 2006 tax year, employees have been allowed to designate contributions as a Roth 401(k) deferral. Similar to the provisions of a Roth IRA, these contributions are made on an after-tax basis.\n\nIf the employee made after-tax contributions to the non-Roth 401(k) account, these amounts are commingled with the pre-tax funds and simply add to the non-Roth 401(k) basis. When distributions are made the taxable portion of the distribution will be calculated as the ratio of the non-Roth contributions to the total 401(k) basis. The remainder of the distribution is tax-free and not included in gross income for the year.\n\nFor accumulated after-tax contributions and earnings in a designated Roth account (Roth 401(k)), \"qualified distributions\" can be made tax-free. To qualify, distributions must be made more than 5 years after the first designated Roth contributions \"and\" not before the year in which the account owner turns age 59½, unless an exception applies as detailed in IRS code section 72(t). In the case of designated Roth contributions, the contributions being made on an after-tax basis means that the taxable income in the year of contribution is not decreased as it is with pre-tax contributions. Roth contributions are irrevocable and cannot be converted to pre-tax contributions at a later date. (In contrast to Roth individual retirement accounts (IRAs), where Roth contributions may be re characterized as pre-tax contributions.) Administratively, Roth contributions must be made to a separate account, and records must be kept that distinguish the amount of contribution and the corresponding earnings that are to receive Roth treatment.\n\nUnlike the Roth IRA, there is no upper income limit capping eligibility for Roth 401(k) contributions. Individuals who find themselves disqualified from a Roth IRA may contribute to their Roth 401(k). Individuals who qualify for both can contribute the maximum statutory amounts into either or a combination of the two plans (including both catch-up contributions if applicable). Aggregate statutory annual limits set by the IRS will apply.\n\nGenerally, a 401k participant may begin to withdraw money from his or her plan after reaching the age of 59½ without penalty. The Internal Revenue Code imposes severe restrictions on withdrawals of tax-deferred or Roth contributions while a person remains in service with the company and is under the age of 59½. Any withdrawal that is permitted before the age of 59½ is subject to an excise tax equal to ten percent of the amount distributed (on top of the ordinary income tax that has to be paid), including withdrawals to pay expenses due to a hardship, except to the extent the distribution does not exceed the amount allowable as a deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 213 to the employee for amounts paid during the taxable year for medical care (determined without regard to whether the employee itemizes deductions for such taxable year). Amounts withdrawn are subject to ordinary income taxes to the participant.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Code generally defines a hardship as any of the following.\n\n\nSome employers may disallow one, several, or all of the previous hardship causes. To maintain the tax advantage for income deferred into a 401(k), the law stipulates the restriction that unless an exception applies, money must be kept in the plan or an equivalent tax deferred plan until the employee reaches 59½ years of age. Money that is withdrawn prior to the age of 59½ typically incurs a 10% penalty tax unless a further exception applies. This penalty is on top of the \"ordinary income\" tax that has to be paid on such a withdrawal. The exceptions to the 10% penalty include: the employee's death, the employee's total and permanent disability, separation from service in or after the year the employee reached age 55, substantially equal periodic payments under section 72(t), a qualified domestic relations order, and for deductible medical expenses (exceeding the 7.5% floor). This does not apply to the similar 457 plan.\n\nMany plans also allow employees to take loans from their 401(k) to be repaid with after-tax funds at predefined interest rates. The interest proceeds then become part of the 401(k) balance. The loan itself is not taxable income nor subject to the 10% penalty as long as it is paid back in accordance with section 72(p) of the Internal Revenue Code. This section requires, among other things, that the loan be for a term no longer than 5 years (except for the purchase of a primary residence), that a \"reasonable\" rate of interest be charged, and that substantially equal payments (with payments made at least every calendar quarter) be made over the life of the loan. Employers, of course, have the option to make their plan's loan provisions more restrictive. When an employee does not make payments in accordance with the plan or IRS regulations, the outstanding loan balance will be declared in \"default\". A defaulted loan, and possibly accrued interest on the loan balance, becomes a taxable distribution to the employee in the year of default with all the same tax penalties and implications of a withdrawal.\n\nThese loans have been described as tax-disadvantaged, on the theory that the 401(k) contains before-tax dollars, but the loan is repaid with after-tax dollars. While this is precisely correct, the analysis is fundamentally flawed with regard to the loan principal amounts. From your perspective as the borrower, this is identical to a standard loan where you are not taxed when you get the loan, but you have to pay it back with taxed dollars. However, the interest portion of the loan repayments, which are essentially additional contributions to the 401(k), are made with after-tax funds but they do not increase the after-tax basis in the 401(k). Therefore, upon distribution/conversion of those funds the owner will have to pay taxes on those funds a second time.\n\nAccount owners must begin making distributions from their accounts by April 1 of the calendar year after turning age 70½ or April 1 of the calendar year after retiring, whichever is later. The amount of distributions is based on life expectancy according to the relevant factors from the appropriate IRS tables. There is an exception to minimum distribution for people still working once they reach that age. The exception only applies to the current plan they are participating in and does not apply if the account owner is a 5% owner of the business sponsoring the retirement plan. Required minimum distributions apply to both pretax and after-tax Roth contributions. Only a Roth IRA is not subject to minimum distribution rules. Other than the exception for continuing to work after age 70½ differs from the rules for IRA minimum distributions. The same penalty applies to the failure to make the minimum distribution. The penalty is 50% of the amount that should have been distributed, one of the most severe penalties the IRS applies. In response to the economic crisis, Congress suspended the RMD requirement for 2009.\n\nA 401(k) plan may have a provision in its plan documents to close the account of a \"former\" employee who have low account balances. Almost 90% of 401(k) plans have such a provision. As of March 2005, a 401(k) plan may require the closing of a former employee's account if and only if the former employee's account has less than $1,000 of vested assets.\n\nWhen a former employee's account is closed, the former employee can either rollover the funds to an Individual Retirement Account, rollover the funds to another 401(k) plan, or receive a cash distribution, less required income taxes and possibly a penalty for a cash withdrawal before the age of 59 1/2.\n\nRollovers between eligible retirement plans are accomplished in one of two ways: by a distribution to the participant and a subsequent rollover to another plan or by a direct rollover from plan to plan. Rollovers after a distribution to the participant must generally be accomplished within 60 days of the distribution. If the 60-day limit is not met, the rollover will be disallowed and the distribution will be taxed as ordinary income and the 10% penalty will apply, if applicable. The same rules and restrictions apply to rollovers from plans to IRAs.\n\nA direct rollover from an eligible retirement plan to another eligible retirement plan is not taxable, regardless of the age of the participant.\n\nIn 2013 the IRS began allowing conversions of existing Traditional 401(k) contributions to Roth 401(k). In order to do so, an employee's company plan must offer both a Traditional and Roth option and explicitly permit such a conversion.\n\nThere is a maximum limit on the total yearly \"employee\" pre-tax or Roth salary deferral into the plan. This limit, known as the \"402(g) limit\", was $15,500 for the year 2008; $16,500 for 2009–2011; $17,000 for 2012; $17,500 for 2013–2014; $18,000 for 2015–2017; $18,500 for 2018; and $19,000 for 2019. For future years, the limit may be indexed for inflation, increasing in increments of $500. Employees who are at least 50 years old at any time during the year are now allowed additional pre-tax \"catch up\" contributions of up to $5,000 for 2008; $5,500 for 2009–2014; and $6,000 for 2015–2019. The limit for future \"catch up\" contributions may also be adjusted for inflation in increments of $500. In eligible plans, employees can elect to contribute on a pre-tax basis or as a Roth 401(k) contribution, or a combination of the two, but the total of those two contributions amounts must not exceed the contribution limit in a single calendar year. This limit does not apply to post-tax non-Roth elections.\n\nIf the employee contributes more than the maximum pre-tax/Roth limit to 401(k) accounts in a given year, the excess as well as the deemed earnings for those contributions must be withdrawn or corrected by April 15 of the following year. This violation most commonly occurs when a person switches employers mid-year and the latest employer does not know to enforce the contribution limits on behalf of their employee. If this violation is noticed too late, the employee will not only be required to pay tax on the excess contribution amount the year was earned, the tax will effectively be doubled as the late corrective distribution is required to be reported again as income along with the earnings on such excess in the year the late correction is made.\n\nPlans which are set up under section 401(k) can also have employer contributions that cannot exceed other regulatory limits. Employer matching contributions can be made on behalf of designated Roth contributions, but the employer match must be made on a pre-tax basis.\n\nSome plans also have a profit-sharing provision where employers make additional contributions to the account and may or may not require matching contributions by the employee. These additional contributions may or may not require a matching employee contribution to earn them. As with the matching funds, these contributions are also made on a pre-tax basis.\n\nThere is also a maximum 401(k) contribution limit that applies to all employee and employer 401(k) contributions in a calendar year. This limit is the section 415 limit, which is the lesser of 100% of the employee's total pre-tax compensation or $44,000 for 2006; $45,000 for 2007; $46,000 for 2008; $49,000 for 2009–2011; $50,000 for 2012; $51,000 for 2013; $52,000 for 2014; $53,000 for 2015-2016; $54,000 for 2017; $55,000 for 2018; and $56,000 for 2019. For employees over 50, the catch-up contribution limit is also added to the section 415 limit.\n\nGovernmental employers in the United States (that is, federal, state, county, and city governments) are currently barred from offering 401(k) retirement plans unless the retirement plan was established before May 1986. Governmental organizations may set up a section 457(b) retirement plan instead.\n\nFor a corporation, or LLC taxed as a corporation, contributions must be made by the end of a calendar year. For a sole proprietorship, partnership, or an LLC taxed as a sole proprietorship, the deadline for depositing contributions is generally the personal tax filing deadline (April 15, or September 15 if an extension was filed).\n\nTo help ensure that companies extend their 401(k) plans to low-paid employees, an IRS rule limits the maximum deferral by the company's highly compensated employees (HCEs) based on the average deferral by the company's non-highly compensated employees (NHCEs). If the less compensated employees save more for retirement, then the HCEs are allowed to save more for retirement. This provision is enforced via \"non-discrimination testing\". Non-discrimination testing takes the deferral rates of HCEs and compares them to NHCEs. In 2008, an HCE was defined as an employee with compensation greater than $100,000 in 2007, or as an employee that owned more than 5% of the business at any time during the year or the preceding year. In addition to the $100,000 limit for determining\nHCEs, employers can elect to limit the top-paid group of employees to the top 20% of employees ranked by compensation. That is, for plans with the first day of the plan-year in the 2007 calendar year, HCEs are employees who earned more than $100,000 in gross compensation (also known as 'Medicare wages') in the prior year. For example, most testing done in 2009 was for the 2008 plan-year, which compared 2007 plan-year gross compensation to the $100,000 threshold in order to determine who was an HCE and who was an NHCE. The threshold became $110,000 for 2010–2011. The threshold was $115,000 for 2012–2014; and $120,000 for 2015–2018. \n\nThe actual deferral percentage (ADP) of all HCEs as a group cannot exceed 2 percentage points greater than all NHCEs as a group. This is known as the ADP test. When a plan fails the ADP test, it essentially has two options to come into compliance. A return of excess can be given to the HCEs to lower the HCE ADP to a passing level, or it can process a \"qualified non-elective contribution\" (QNEC) to some or all of the NHCEs in order to raise the NHCE ADP to a passing level. A return of excess requires the plan to send a taxable distribution to the HCEs (or reclassify regular contributions as catch-up contributions subject to the annual catch-up limit for those HCEs over 50) by March 15 of the year following the failed test. A QNEC must be vested immediately.\n\nThe annual contribution percentage (ACP) test is similarly performed but also includes employer matching and employee after-tax contributions. ACPs do not use the simple 2% threshold, and include other provisions which can allow the plan to \"shift\" excess passing rates from the ADP over to the ACP. A failed ACP test is likewise addressed through return of excess, or a QNEC or qualified match (QMAC).\n\nThere are a number of \"safe harbor\" provisions that can allow a company to be exempted from the ADP test. This includes making a \"safe harbor\" employer contribution to employees' accounts. Safe harbor contributions can take the form of a match (generally totaling 4% of pay) or a non-elective profit sharing (totaling 3% of pay). Safe harbor 401(k) contributions must be 100% vested at all times with immediate eligibility for employees. There are other administrative requirements within the safe harbor, such as requiring the employer to notify all eligible employees of the opportunity to participate in the plan, and restricting the employer from suspending participants for any reason other than due to a hardship withdrawal.\n\nEmployers are allowed to automatically enroll their employees in 401(k) plans, requiring employees to actively opt out if they do not want to participate (traditionally, 401(k)s required employees to opt in). Companies offering such automatic 401(k)s must choose a default investment fund and savings rate. Employees who are enrolled automatically will become investors in the default fund at the default rate, although they may select different funds and rates if they choose, or even opt out completely.\n\nAutomatic 401(k)s are designed to encourage high participation rates among employees. Therefore, employers can attempt to enroll non-participants as often as once per year, requiring those non-participants to opt out each time if they do not want to participate. Employers can also choose to escalate participants' default contribution rate, encouraging them to save more.\n\nThe Pension Protection Act of 2006 made automatic enrollment a safer option for employers. Prior to the Pension Protection Act, employers were held responsible for investment losses as a result of such automatic enrollments. The Pension Protection Act established a safe harbor for employers in the form of a \"Qualified Default Investment Alternative\", an investment plan that, if chosen by the employer as the default plan for automatically enrolled participants, relieves the employer of financial liability. Under Department of Labor regulations, three main types of investments qualify as QDIAs: lifecycle funds, balanced funds, and managed accounts. QDIAs provide sponsors with fiduciary relief similar to the relief that applies when participants affirmatively elect their investments.\n\n401(k) plans charge fees for administrative services, investment management services, and sometimes outside consulting services. They can be charged to the employer, the plan participants or to the plan itself and the fees can be allocated on a per participant basis, per plan, or as a percentage of the plan's assets. For 2011, the average total administrative and management fees on a 401(k) plan was 0.78 percent or approximately $250 per participant. The United States Supreme Court ruled, in 2015, that plan administrators could be sued for excessive plan fees and expenses, in Tibble v. Edison International. In the Tibble case, the Supreme Court took strong issue with a large company placing plan investments in \"retail\" mutual fund shares as opposed to \"institutional\" class shares.\n\nThe IRS monitors defined benefit plans such as 401(k)s to determine if they are top-heavy, or weighted too heavily in providing benefits to key employees. If the plans are too top-heavy, the company must remedy this by allocating funds to the other employees' (known as non-key employees) benefit plans.\n\nThe Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (EGTRRA) made 401(k) plans more beneficial to the self-employed. The two key changes enacted related to the allowable \"Employer\" deductible contribution, and the \"Individual\" IRC-415 contribution limit.\n\nPrior to EGTRRA, the maximum tax-deductible contribution to a 401(k) plan was 15% of eligible pay (reduced by the amount of salary deferrals). Without EGTRRA, an incorporated business person taking $100,000 in salary would have been limited in Y2004 to a maximum contribution of $15,000. EGTRRA raised the deductible limit to 25% of eligible pay without reduction for salary deferrals. Therefore, that same businessperson in Y2008 can make an \"elective deferral\" of $15,500 plus a profit sharing contribution of $25,000 (i.e. 25%), and—if this person is over age 50—make a catch-up contribution of $5,000 for a total of $45,500. For those eligible to make \"catch-up\" contribution, and with salary of $122,000 or higher, the maximum possible total contribution in 2008 would be $51,000. To take advantage of these higher contributions, many vendors now offer Solo 401(k) plans or Individual(k) plans, which can be administered as a Self-Directed 401(k), permitting investment in real estate, mortgage notes, tax liens, private companies, and virtually any other investment.\n\nNote: an unincorporated business person is subject to slightly different calculation. The government mandates calculation of profit sharing contribution as 25% of \"net self-employment (Schedule C) income\". Thus on $100,000 of self-employment income, the contribution would be 20% of the gross self-employment income, 25% of the net after the contribution of $20,000.\n\nROBS is an arrangement in which prospective business owners use their 401(k) retirement funds to pay for new business start-up costs. ROBS is an acronym from the United States Internal Revenue Service for the IRS ROBS Rollovers as Business Start-Ups Compliance Project.\n\nROBS plans, while not considered an abusive tax avoidance transaction, are questionable because they may solely benefit one individual – the individual who rolls over his or her existing retirement 401(k) withdrawal funds to the ROBS plan in a tax-free transaction. The ROBS plan then uses the rollover assets to purchase the stock of the new business. A C corporation must be set up in order to roll the 401(k) withdrawal.\n\nEven though the term \"401(k)\" is a reference to a specific provision of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code section 401, it has become so well known that it has been used elsewhere as a generic term to describe analogous legislation. For example, in October 2001, Japan adopted legislation allowing the creation of \"Japan-version 401(k)\" accounts even though no provision of the relevant Japanese codes is in fact called \"section 401(k).\"\n\nSimilar pension schemes exist in other nations as well. \nThe term is not used in the UK, where analogous pension arrangements are known as personal pension schemes. In Australia, they are known as superannuation funds.\n\nSimilarly, India has a scheme called PPF and EPF, that are loosely similar to 401 (k) schemes, wherein the employee contributes 7.5% of his / her salary to the provident fund and this is matched by an equal contribution by the employer. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) is a statutory body of the Government of India under the Ministry of Labour and Employment. It administers a compulsory contributory Provident Fund Scheme, Pension Scheme and an Insurance Scheme. The schemes covers both Indian and international workers (for countries with which bilateral agreements have been signed; 14 such social security agreements are active). It is one of the largest social security organisations in India in terms of the number of covered beneficiaries and the volume of financial transactions undertaken. The EPFO's apex decision making body is the Central Board of Trustees.\n\nNepal and Sri Lanka have similar employees provident fund schemes. In Malaysia, The Employees Provident Fund (EPF) was established in 1951 upon the Employees Provident Fund Ordinance 1951. The EPF is intended to help employees from the private sector save a fraction of their salary in a lifetime banking scheme, to be used primarily as a retirement fund but also in the event that the employee is temporarily or no longer fit to work. As of March 31, 2014, the size of the EPF asset size stood at RM597 billion (US$184 billion), making it the fourth largest pension fund in Asia and seventh largest in the world.\n\nUnlike defined benefit ERISA plans or banking institution savings accounts, there is no government insurance for assets held in 401(k) accounts. Plans of sponsors experiencing financial difficulties sometimes have funding problems. However, the bankruptcy laws give a high priority to sponsor funding liability. In moving between jobs, this should be a consideration by a plan participant in whether to leave assets in the old plan or roll over the assets to a new employer plan or to an individual retirement arrangement (an IRA). Fees charged by IRA providers can be substantially less than fees charged by employer plans and typically offer a far wider selection of investment vehicles than employer plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34160378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34160378", "title": "Abraham Lincoln's patent", "text": "Abraham Lincoln's patent\n\nAbraham Lincoln's patent relates to an invention to lift boats over shoals and obstructions in a river. It is the only United States patent ever registered to a President of the United States. Lincoln conceived the idea of inventing a mechanism that would lift a boat over shoals and obstructions when on two different occasions the boat on which he traveled got hung up on obstructions. The original documentation of this patent was rediscovered in 1997.\n\nThis device was composed of large bellows attached to the sides of a boat that were expandable due to air chambers. His successful patent application led to his drafting and delivering two lectures on the subject of patents while he was President. Lincoln was at times a patent attorney and was familiar with the patent application process as well as patent lawsuit proceedings. Among his notable patent law experiences was litigation over the mechanical reaper; both he and his future Secretary of War, Edwin Stanton, provided counsel for John Henry Manny.\n\nThe invention stemmed from Lincoln's experiences ferrying travelers and carrying freight on the Great Lakes and some midwestern rivers. In 1860, Lincoln wrote his autobiography and recounted that while in his late teens he took a flatboat down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers from his home in Indiana to New Orleans while employed as a hired hand. The son of the boat owner kept him company and the two went out on this new undertaking without any other helpers.\n\nAfter moving to Macon County, Illinois, Lincoln made an additional trip a few years later on another flatboat that went from Beardstown, Illinois, to New Orleans. He, John D. Johnston (his stepmother's son) and John Hanks were hired as laborers by Denton Offutt to take a flatboat to New Orleans. They were to join Offutt at Springfield, Illinois. In early March 1831, the boys purchased a large canoe and traveled south on the Sangamon River.\n\nWhen they finally found him, they discovered Offutt had failed to secure a contract for a freight trip in Beardstown. Thus, purchasing the large canoe was an unnecessary expense. They then tried to cut their losses and worked for Offutt for twelve dollars per month cutting timber and building a boat at the Old Sangamon town (fifteen miles northwest of Springfield) on the Sangamon River. The new boat carried them to New Orleans based upon the original contract with Offutt.\n\nAs William Horman first wrote, \"necessity is the mother of invention.\" Before Offutt's flatboat could reach the Illinois River, it got hung up on a milldam at the Old Sangamon town. As the boat was sinking, Lincoln took action, unloading some cargo to right the boat, then drilling a hole in the bow with a large auger borrowed from the local cooperage. After the water drained, he replugged the hole. With local help, he then portaged the empty boat over the dam, and was able to complete the trip to New Orleans.\n\nAt the age of 23, Lincoln started his political career in New Salem. Near the top of his agenda was improvement of navigation on the Sangamon River. Lincoln's law partner and biographer, William H. Herndon, also reports an additional incident at the time: a boat Lincoln was on got stranded on a shoal; the boat gradually swung clear and was dislodged after much manual exertion. This event, along with the Offutt's boat/milldam incident, prompted Lincoln to start thinking about how to lift vessels over river obstructions and shoals. He eventually came up with an idea for inflatable flotation.\n\nCalled \"Buoying Vessels Over Shoals,\" Lincoln envisioned a system of waterproof fabric bladders that could be inflated when necessary to help ease a stuck ship over such obstacles. When crew members knew their ship was stuck, or at risk of hitting a shallow, Lincoln's invention could be activated, which would inflate the air chambers along the bottom of the watercraft to lift it above the water's surface, providing enough clearance to avoid a disaster. As part of the research process, Lincoln designed a scale model of a ship outfitted with the device. This model (built and assembled with the assistance of a Springfield, Ill., mechanic named Walter Davis) is on display at the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nAfter reporting to Washington for his two-year term in Congress (beginning March 1847), Lincoln retained Zenas C. Robbins, patent attorney. Robbins most probably had drawings done by Robert Washington Fenwick, his apprentice artist. Robbins processed the application, which became patent No. 6,469 on May 22, 1849. However, it was never produced for practical use. There are doubts as to whether it would have actually worked: It \"likely would not have been practical,\" stated Paul Johnston, curator of maritime history at the National Museum of American History, \"because you need a lot of force to get the buoyant chambers even two feet down into the water. My gut feeling is that it might have been made to work, but Lincoln's considerable talents lay elsewhere.\"\n\nAbout that time, Lincoln took his son Robert Todd to the Old Patent Office Building model room to view the displays, sowing one of the youngster's fondest memories. Lincoln himself continued to have a special affinity for the site.\n\nThe registered patent No. 6,469 starts,\nLincoln's patent ends with this claim,\n\nLincoln's exposure to the patent system, as an inventor and as a lawyer, engendered deep beliefs in its efficacy. In the United States, patent law has a constitutional foundation, was supported by the country's founders, and was viewed as an indispensable engine for economic development. It led him to deliver two lectures on the subject, and was reflected in his approach as president.\nLincoln had an attraction to machinelike accessories all his life, which some say was hereditary and handed down to him from his father's interest in labor-saving equipment. He made speeches on inventions before he became president. He said in 1858, \"Man is not the only animal who labors; but he is the only one who improves his workmanship.\"\n\nLincoln admired the patent law system because of the reciprocal benefits it furnished both the inventor and society. In 1859 he noted that the patent system \". . . has secured to the inventor, for a limited time, the exclusive use of his invention; and thereby added the fuel of interest to the fire of genius, in the discovery and production of new and useful things.\" He described the discovery of America as the most important development \"in the world's history,\" followed second by the technology of printing and third by patent laws. Lincoln was himself a patent lawyer.\n\nEarly in his legal career, he won an unreported patent infringement case for the defendant, styled \"Parker v. Hoyt\". A jury found that his client's waterwheel did not infringe the patent. His second largest professional fee came from successful participation in the \"Reaper Case\", \"McCormick v. Manny\". He was co-counsel for the defendant with two aggressive and preeminent Pennsylvania patent attorneys, George Harding, and Edwin M. Stanton.\n\nAlthough Lincoln was prepared and well-paid, his co-counsel thought him too \"ungainly and unpresentable to be allowed to participate\" and present the argument. Although he was sent home unheard, Manny won the case in an opinion authored by Supreme Court Judge John McLean. Upon Lincoln's taking office, he offered Harding the job of Commissioner of Patents, which was refused. He later offered the position of United States Secretary of War to Stanton, who accepted and served. Lincoln's final patent case was \"Dawson v. Ennis\". It occurred between his presidential nomination and the election. His electoral triumph was juxtaposed with a litigation loss for his client.\n\nThe original 1846 patent drawing was discovered in the United States Patent Office director's office in 1997. Its only omission is the usually required inventor's autograph in the lower right corner. The Smithsonian Institution acquired about 10,000 patent models, including Lincoln's. The Engineering Collection includes about 75 maritime inventions; its Maritime Collections holds a replica, the original being deemed too fragile to loan. The National Museum of American History Political History Collections retains a copy of the patent papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25430810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25430810", "title": "Agenda 21 for culture", "text": "Agenda 21 for culture\n\nAgenda 21 for culture (now also known as Culture 21) is a program for cultural governance developed in 2002–2004 and organized by United Cities and Local Governments.\nPart of the program's premise is to add culture as a fourth conceptual pillar of sustainable development in governance, the historical three pillars of which are environment, social inclusion, and economics.\n\n\"Agenda 21\" is an agenda for sustainable development in the 21st century, approved by United Nations members at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. The original Agenda 21 did not discuss culture in great depth. It did include a section (Chapter 28) known as \"Local Agenda 21\" which called for local governments to adopt action plans and to collaborate with international organizations; a deliberative process which itself would \"increase household awareness of sustainable development issues\". While the ecological dimension of Local Agenda 21 was paramount at first, cities in the following years have incorporated cultural development into their outlook on sustainable development. In 1998, the World Bank and UNESCO jointly endorsed the inclusion of culture in the sustainable development strategy.\n\nIn September 2002, the first World Public Meeting on Culture, held in Porto Alegre, resolved to create guidelines for local cultural policies. A final document was approved on 8 May 2004 in Barcelona, and on 15 September it was submitted to UN-HABITAT and UNESCO. In the same year, the world organization United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) was formed to coordinate this Agenda 21 for culture.\n\nBy 2010, over 400 governments and organizations had jointed Agenda 21 for culture in some way. By 2015 membership exceeded 500.\n\nThe Agenda 21 for culture has 67 articles, divided into three sections: principles, undertakings, and recommendations. The \"Principles\" include core values such as cultural diversity and human rights, as well as perspectives on which actors will implement the agenda. Cities are envisioned as primary sites for cultural production and governance, as well as places where cultural policy is necessary for harmonious coexistence. Culture itself is described as an essential part of constructing citizenship for people of all ages. Participation in culture takes place through channels including internet, public spaces, and work.\n\nThe \"Undertakings\" section encourages policies which support cultural development and expand access to culture without prejudice. It specifically mentions books, internet, museums, and tourism as vectors for culture. It calls for decentralized but funded cultural policies; multilateral cooperation between cultural institutions, NGOs, and governments; and popularization of scientific technical culture. It advocates the right of freedom of speech, the moral rights of authors and artists, and the development of legal systems for historic preservation. The recommendations section addresses local and national governments, regional blocs, and international organizations, offering advice for how each of them can implement this agenda.\n\nIn the UCLG, the Agenda 21 for culture is managed by the Committee on Culture, which is co-chaired by Buenos Aires and the City of Mexico and vice-chaired by Angers, Barcelona, Belo Horizonte, Bilbao, Bogotá, Jeju, Paris and Porto Alegre since 2016. Between 2012 and 2015, the UCLG Committee on Culture was chaired by the Lille-Métropole and co-chaired by Buenos Aires, México DF and Montreal, and the cities of Angers, Barcelona and Milan were Vice-Presidents and three other cities (one from Africa, one from Middle East/Asia and one from Asia/Pacific) to join the Board as Vice-Presidents. Before 2012, the Committee on culture was chaired by Barcelona city council, and Stockholm, Lille, Buenos Aires and Montreal councils are its vice presidents.\n\nOther organizations promoting Agenda 21 for culture include UNESCO and the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation (AECID).\n\nIn 2009–2010, UCLG, with AECID and the Barcelona City Council, created the Fund for Local Cultural Governance, to advance the implementation of the Agenda 21 for culture in African, Mediterranean and Latin American cities.\n\nIn 2009–2013 UNESCO and the AECID developed \"Culture for Development Indicators\" (CDIS), an \"advocacy and policy\" toll for assessing cultural development in 22 areas within 7 categories.\n\nMoreover, the UCLG Committee on Culture has worked to ensure that culture is explicitly integrated into the development programmes of the United Nations which aim to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. After some awareness-raising actions during the Millennium Development Goals Summit, the UN General Assembly approved the final document of the Summit that mentions culture as an important dimension of development.\n\nUNESCO and UCLG have advocated for inclusion of culture in the 2015 Sustainable Development Goals and have continued to promote this outlook.\n\nSince 2006, in the framework of its research tasks, the Agenda 21 for culture has published several reports:\n\nThe Agenda 21 for culture is a tool to enhance the role of culture in urban policies and also a tool to make cultural issues the fourth pillar of sustainable development.\n\n\"Sustainability\" in culture refers not only to the preservation of cultural heritage but also to incorporating the sustainable development mentality into everyday life.\n\nThe extensive work and activism undertaken by the Agenda 100 for culture led the UCLG Executive Bureau to head the preparation of the policy statement document \"Culture: the Fourth Pillar of Sustainable Development\", approved on 17 November 2010 in the framework of the World Summit of Local and Regional Leaders – 3rd UCLG World Congress, held in Mexico City. This document opens a new perspective and points to the relationship between culture and sustainable development through a dual approach: developing a solid cultural policy and advocating a cultural dimension in all public policies.\n\nQuebec has endorsed the Agenda 21 for culture model and released a development plan along these lines. Montreal has ratified the agenda and undertaken various actions including library restoration and the creation of new cultural institutions, including \"Design Montréal\". An NGO called \"Culture Montréal\" has formed to promote development of and access to culture. Montreal has been designated a \"UNESCO City of design\".\n\nThe Moroccan city Essaouira, according to mayor Asma Chaabi, has been incorporating culture into its implementation of Local Agenda 21 since the 1990s. She writes in the five-year review of Agenda 21 for culture that Essaouira has succeeded in its historic preservation goals through cooperation with the national ministry of culture and with UNESCO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27514474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27514474", "title": "Allen Dorfman", "text": "Allen Dorfman\n\nAllen Dorfman (January 6, 1923 – January 20, 1983) was an insurance agency owner, and a consultant to the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Central States Pension Fund. He was a close associate of longtime IBT President Jimmy Hoffa and associated with organized crime via the Chicago Outfit. Dorfman was convicted on several felony counts, and was murdered in 1983.\n\nAllen Dorfman was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1923 to a working class family and attended Marshall High School in Chicago, Illinois. He enlisted in the US Marines and won a Silver Star at the Battle of Iwo Jima. Crime writer Nicholas Pileggi and journalist Dan Moldea describe Allen as having an athletic build and premature grey hair and a stylish appearance. He attended the University of Illinois and taught physical education there. He and his wife, Lynn, were the parents of four children: James, Michael, David and Kim.\n\nAllen Dorfman was the stepson of Paul \"Red\" Dorfman, the head of the Chicago Waste Handler's Union and a kingpin in the Chicago Outfit. Allen's stepfather Paul had troubles with the AFL-CIO when he was caught taking funds out of the labor union's health and welfare reservoir, and, among other things, started paying personal bills with the membership money. Dorfman was only one of two trustees on the fund. In addition, his father had deposited $150,000 of health and welfare money into a bank owned by a friend, George Sax, who did not pay a cent of interest. Sax was the owner of the Saxony Motel in Miami, Florida, which was a meeting place for Hoffa, Dorfman, Robert Shulman and others when they were visiting southern Florida.\n\nThrough mobster Santo Perrone, Jimmy Hoffa had met Paul Dorfman. Dorfman and Perrone had done business together through the Chicago Scrap Handlers' Union. Through Paul Dorfman, Allen drew alliance with Joey Glimco, Paul DeLucia and Sam Giancana. In early 1949, Hoffa set up the Michigan Conference of the Teamsters' Welfare Fund. In 1951, he persuaded two trustees of the fund, Frank Fitzsimmons and employer delegate to move the fund to the newly formed Chicago branch of Union Casualty Agency. The branch was owned by Paul Dorfman's wife, Allen's mother Rosemary \"Rose\", and by Allen. This was despite the fact that Allen had no experience in the insurance.\n\nSolicited by Paul Dorfman, the New York parent company gave Allen his start in the lucrative labor industry and helped set up the Chicago branch. Through his stepfather, Allen met Hoffa and Local 337's president, Owen Bert Brennan. When Union Casualty received fiduciary responsibility for the Michigan Conference Fund, Hoffa had already created a larger welfare fund, the Central States Health and Welfare Fund, which had also given its business to Union Casualty. The two fund accounts made up 90 percent of the branch company's contracts. During the first eight years of fiduciary management by Union Casualty the Dorfmans made more than $3 million in commissions and service fees. In one instance, Allen took $51,462 in premiums and simply deposited it in a special account that he maintained with his mother, with no complaints from the Teamsters.\n\nAllen Dorfman was apparently well respected by the mob. A Chicago Outfit mob boss was once heard discussing Dorfman with a subordinate saying, \"Allen [Dorfman] is not that type of guy, but the people that got a piece of him are that type of guy. Allen is meek and Allen is harmless. But the people behind him are not meek and they are not harmless.\"\n\nIn 1949, Allen Dorfman formed the Union Insurance Agency and obtained a contract to provide health and welfare insurance for the Teamsters Central States union. The contract soon extended to sickness and accident insurance. In 1959, Dorfman became the subject of an investigation by the McClellan Committee, a US Senate group investigating potential crimes and improprieties in the US labor movement. Dorfman came under scrutiny regarding the excessive fees paid by the Teamsters to Dorfman's company. The Committee suspected that large cash withdrawals from the business were actually kickbacks to Jimmy Hoffa. During the late 1950s, Dorfman got involved in approving loans for the Teamster's Central States Pension Fund. Many of these loans were real estate loans to associates of high-ranking Teamster members or to organized crime connected casinos in Las Vegas, Nevada. In 1963, Dorfman was indicted in the same Chattanooga, Tennessee, jury-fixing case that sent Hoffa to prison. However, Dorfman was acquitted in the case. After Hoffa went to prison in 1967, Dorfman took control of the Central States Pension fund. Among the loans he later made was a $160 million loan to Argent Corporation, which owned a group of casinos, including the Stardust Resort & Casino. The casinos at that time were infiltrated by organized crime and profits were being heavily skimmed and paid to organized crime. A number of organized crime members were later convicted in the case. By 1977, Dorfman had lost control of the pension fund due to the implementation of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and subsequent increases in outside control of the fund.\n\nDorfman rose to prominence during labor unrest following World War II, and by the late 1950s was a close cohort of IBT President Jimmy Hoffa. Dorfman's rise coincided with enormous expansion in Teamsters' ranks, along with spectacular growth in the union's pension funds, which eventually came largely under Dorfman's administration. The \"Test Fleet\" prosecution brought against Hoffa by the Justice Department, then headed by US Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy resulted in a hung jury in December 1962. Dorfman, along with other Hoffa allies, was investigated and charged with jury tampering. Dorfman was acquitted in the case, but Jimmy Hoffa, was found guilty of this crime in 1964. After a lengthy appeals process Hoffa went to prison in 1967.\n\nAlleged ties to organized crime dogged Dorfman during his time as a Teamsters' leader, as he was the stepson of the Chicago-based gangster Paul \"Red\" Dorfman. Dorfman, based mostly in Chicago, was eventually indicted, along with several other Teamsters' leaders, for embezzlement from the union pension fund, in 1970. Dorfman and Hoffa ran for several years a large-scale program of unsecured loans from Teamsters' pension funds to major figures in organized crime. This prosecution resulted in his conviction, and Allen Dorfman was sentenced to one year in federal prison. He was again investigated in 1973 on similar charges, related to payoffs given to have the Teamsters represent agricultural workers in California, in place of the United Farm Workers Union.\n\nIn February 1974, Dorfman was indicted for fraud involving $1.4 million in loans made by the Teamster's pension fund to Gaylur Products/American Pail Company, a plastics manufacturing company in Deming, New Mexico. Indicted along with Dorfman were Joseph Lombardo (aka \"Joey the Clown\"), Anthony Spilotro (aka \"The Ant\"), Irwin Weiner, and several others. Between 1959 and 1969 the Central States Pension Fund Plan the loans had gone unpaid. But in 1971, Irwin Weiner a prominent bailbondsman, organized crime associate and friend of Jack Ruby had purchased stock in the company and received another $1.4 million loan from the fund with a mere $7,000 deposit. The government's case collapsed after their main witness, Daniel Seifert, was murdered in September 1974 and the defendants were either acquitted or dropped from the indictment. (Lombardo was convicted of Seifert's murder in 2007 as a result of Operation Family Secrets.)\n\nIn 1979, the Federal Bureau of Investigation launched \"Operation Pendorf\" (for penetration of Allen Dorfman). The FBI installed hidden microphones in the office of Dorfman's insurance agency. As a result of information obtained from the wiretaps, a federal grand jury in Chicago indicted Dorfman and four others in May 1981. Dorfman was subsequently convicted in December 1982, along with Teamsters' president Roy Lee Williams and Chicago Outfit enforcer Joseph Lombardo, of conspiring to bribe Howard Cannon, the Democratic Senator from Nevada.\n\nThree days before his sentencing, scheduled for January 23, 1983, Allen Dorfman was murdered outside the Lincolnwood Hyatt parking lot in Lincolnwood, Illinois. Described as a gangland-style execution, the murder was presumably intended to keep him from cooperating with authorities to avoid a possible 55-year prison sentence. He was with longtime friend Irwin Weiner, a known associate of many Chicago mob figures. Weiner was not injured in the incident.\n\nAlan King portrayed a character named Andy Stone in the Martin Scorsese film \"Casino\". That character was based on elements from Allen Dorfman's life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51157555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51157555", "title": "Arbitration Act 2005", "text": "Arbitration Act 2005\n\nThe Arbitration Act 2005 () is a Malaysian law which was enacted to reform the law relating to domestic arbitration, provide for international arbitration, the recognition and enforcement of awards, and for related matters.\n\nThe Arbitration Act 2005, in its current form (1 July 2011), consists of 4 Parts containing 51 sections and no schedule (including 1 amendment).\n\n"}
{"id": "54310551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54310551", "title": "Authenticated Received Chain", "text": "Authenticated Received Chain\n\nAuthenticated Received Chain (ARC) is an email authentication system designed to allow an intermediate mail server like a mailing list or forwarding service to sign an email's original authentication results. This allows a receiving service to validate an email when the email's SPF and DKIM records are rendered invalid by an intermediate server's processing.\n\nARC is currently a draft standard with the IETF.\n\nDMARC allows a sender's domain to indicate that their emails are protected by SPF and/or DKIM, and tells a receiving service what to do if neither of those authentication methods passes - such as to reject the message. However, a strict DMARC policy may block legitimate emails sent through a mailing list or forwarder, as the SPF check will fail due to the unapproved sender and the DKIM signature will be invalidated if the message is modified, such as by adding a subject tag or footer.\n\nARC helps to solve the problem of the SPF and DKIM signatures being invalidated by giving the intermediate server a way to sign the original message's validation results. Even if the SPF and DKIM validation fail, the receiving service can choose to validate the ARC. If the ARC indicates that the original message passed the SPF and DKIM checks and the only modifications were made by intermediaries trusted by that receiving service, the receiving service may choose to ignore the failed SPF, DKIM, or DMARC validation and accept the email anyway. It's up to each receiving service to decide which intermediaries to trust.\n\nARC defines three new mail headers:\n\n\nTo sign a modification, an intermediate server performs the following steps:\n\nTo validate an ARC, the recipient performs the following steps:\n\n"}
{"id": "31523112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31523112", "title": "Bankruptcy Act of 1938", "text": "Bankruptcy Act of 1938\n\nThe Bankruptcy Act of 1938, also known as the Chandler Act, expanded voluntary access to the bankruptcy system in the United States and made voluntary petitions more attractive to debtors. It also gave authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the administration of bankruptcy filings. One effect was to remove investment banks from control of the corporate reorganization process by eliminating the equity receivership technique. Instead, a trustee was appointed by the bankruptcy court to oversee the reorganization process.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Act, though now superseded by the Bankruptcy Code, remains an important interpretive tool for current bankruptcy law.\n\nSeveral United States Supreme Court decisions have interpreted the Bankruptcy Code by looking back to the history of the Chandler Act. Some of the most notable decisions include:\n\n- \"United States\" v. \"Whiting Pools, Inc.\", which justified the practice of requiring the IRS to return a bankrupt company's property under the Bankruptcy Code by reference to previous practice under the Bankruptcy Act. The Court wrote that Congress must have been aware of this previous practice and decided not to change it when it passed the Bankruptcy Code. \n\n- \"Johnson\" v. \"Home State Bank\", in which the Court looked to the legislative history and precedent of the Bankruptcy Act to interpret the term \"claim\" in the Bankruptcy Code.\n\n- \"Fidelity Financial Services, Inc.\" v. \"Fink\", in which the Court considered Bankruptcy Act's rules about and precedent interpreting avoidable preferences to resolve a similar question under the Bankruptcy Code.\n\n- \"Cohen\" v. \"de la Cruz\", in which the court relied on practice under the Bankruptcy Act's to interpret the non-dischargeability provisions of the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nThe practice of using the Bankruptcy Act to interpret the Bankruptcy Code has been criticized by some bankruptcy scholars. They claim that this interpretive tool leads to unpredictable results, may ignore the intent of Congress, and confuses lower courts interpreting Supreme Court decisions.\n"}
{"id": "47233416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47233416", "title": "Carbonated soda treatment of phytobezoars", "text": "Carbonated soda treatment of phytobezoars\n\nCarbonated soda treatment of phytobezoars is the use of carbonated soda to try to dissolve a phytobezoar. Bezoars consist of a solid and formed mass trapped in the gastrointestinal system, usually in the stomach. These can also form in other locations.\n\nCarbonated soda has been proposed for the treatment of gastric phytobezoars. In about 50% of cases studied, carbonated soda alone was found to be effective in gastric phytobezoar dissolution. Unfortunately, this treatment can result in the potential of developing small bowel obstruction in a minority of cases, necessitating surgical intervention. It is one of many other stomach disorders that can have similar symptoms.\n\nGastric phytobezoars are a form of intestinal blockage and are seen in those with poor gastric motility. The preferred treatment of bezoars includes different therapies and/or fragmentation to avoid surgery. Phytobezoars are most common and consist of various undigested substances including lignin, cellulose, tannins, celery, pumpkin skin, grape skins, prunes, raisins, vegetables and fruits. Phytobezoars can form after eating persimmons and pineapples. These are more difficult to treat and are referred to as diospyrobezoars.\n\nCarbonated soda may help to dissolve phytobezoars. It can be given by a naso-gastric tube in children. Carbonated soda can also be given by mouth and during endoscopy. It is effective in about half of the cases.\n\nIt promotes dissolution by endoscopic techniques in the majority of the patients left, leading to a final success rate up to 91.3%. In some cases, regular use of Coca-Cola resulted in no recurrence 3–15 months after the first episode. Treatment has varied widely. Coca-Cola has been administrated either as drinking beverage or as lavage. Some are treated with various combinations of drink, injection and irrigation. The volume of Coca-Cola in treatment varies along with daily dose and time of treatment. Dosages varied from 500 mL up to 3000 mL and treatment period 24 hours to 6 weeks. When lavage is used, a double-lumen nasogastric tube or two separate tubes using 3000 mL of Coca-Cola is administered during a 12-hour period. Alternative treatments are the use of cellulase, acetylcysteine, papain, pancreatic enzymes, saline solution, 0.1 N HCl and sodium bicarbonate. with papain such as gastric ulcer, hyponatremia and oesophageal perforation. The protocol for the treatment of phytobezoars with Coca-Cola, i.e., dosage and timing, has not been standardized; further investigation has been encouraged.\n\nTrichobezoars do not respond to treatment with Coca-Cola but instead this type may have to be surgically removed. Persimmon diospyrobezoars sometimes are resistant to Coca-Cola and require a different treatment. This can include endoscopic fragmentation and/or surgical approaches especially in urgent cases where the patient exhibits gastrointestinal bleeding.\n\nAdverse effects have been observed with the use of papain such as gastric ulcer, hyponatremia and oesophageal perforation. These effects have not been observed with the use of Coca-Cola. Glucose levels during the administration of Coca-Cola have not been addressed.\n\nIn addition to Coca-Cola, meat tenderizer has been used to dissolve bezoars of the stomach. When treatment with Coca-Cola is combined with endoscopic methods, the success of treatment approaches 90%. The mechanism by which Coca-Cola dissolves the bezoar is based upon its low pH, CO bubbles, and sodium bicarbonate content. \n\nSome clinicians have described the mode of interaction is based upon the acidification of the gastric contents and the release of CO that causes disintegration. Three and a half liters given nasogastrically over 12 hours has been found to dissolve these bezoars. Coca-Cola has a pH of 2.6. This is due to carbonic and phosphoric acid which resemble gastric acid. Gastric acid is believed to facilitate the digestion of fibers. In Coca-Cola, NaHCO has a mucolytic effect and CO bubbles enhance dissolving the bezoar. Coca-Cola reduces the size and softens the make-up of the bezoar, and combined with other treatments, enhances the dissolution.\n\nA phytobezoar was first successfully treated with Coca-Cola lavage in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "2816932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2816932", "title": "Chancellor (ecclesiastical)", "text": "Chancellor (ecclesiastical)\n\nChancellor is an ecclesiastical title used by several quite distinct officials of some Christian churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "1562184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562184", "title": "ContactPoint", "text": "ContactPoint\n\nContactPoint was a government database that held information on all children under 18 in England. It was created in response to the abuse and death of eight-year-old Victoria Climbié in 2000 in England. Various agencies involved in her care had failed to prevent her death. ContactPoint aimed to improve child protection by improving the way information about children was shared between services. It was designed by Capgemini and previously had the working titles of Information Sharing Index (or IS Index or ISI) and the Children's Index.\n\nThe database, created under the Children Act 2004, cost £224m to set up and £41m a year to run. It operated in 150 local authorities, and was accessible to at least 330,000 users. The database was heavily criticised by a wide range of groups, mainly for privacy, security and child protection reasons. On 12 May 2010 the new UK Coalition Government announced plans to scrap ContactPoint and on 6 August 2010 the database was shut down. From that date the \"Children Act 2004 Information Database (England) Regulations 2007\", as amended in 2010, no longer applies.\n\nIn April 1999, Victoria Climbié (born 2 November 1991 in Abobo, Côte d'Ivoire, died 25 February 2000 at St. Mary's Hospital, London) and her great aunt Marie-Thérèse Kouao arrived in London, sent by her parents for a chance of an education. A few months later, Kouao met Carl Manning on a bus which he was driving, and she and Victoria moved into his flat. It was here that she was abused, including being beaten with hammers, bike chains, and wires; being forced to sleep in a bin liner in the bath; and being tied up for periods of over 24 hours. In the period leading up to her death, the police, the social services of many local authorities, the NHS, the NSPCC, and local churches all had contact with her, and noted the signs of abuse. However, in what the judge in the trial following Victoria's death described as \"blinding incompetence\", all failed to properly investigate the abuse and little action was taken. On 24 February 2000, Victoria was admitted into an accident-and-emergency department, semi-unconscious and suffering from hypothermia, multiple organ failure and malnutrition. She died the next day, aged eight. On 20 November 2000, her guardians, Marie Thérèse Kouao and Carl Manning, were charged with child cruelty and murder; on 12 January 2001, both were found guilty, and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nVictoria's death led to a public inquiry, launched on 31 May 2001 and chaired by Herbert Laming, which investigated the role of the agencies involved in her care. The report, published on 28 January 2003, found that the agencies involved in her care failed to protect her and that on at least 12 occasions, workers involved in her case could have prevented her death. The Laming report led to, amongst other things, the creation of the Every Child Matters programme, which consists of three green papers: \"Every Child Matters\", published in September 2003; \"Every Child Matters: The Next Steps\", published in early 2004; and \"Every Child Matters: Change for Children\", published in November 2004. The\ndatabase proposals were announced in September 2003, alongside the publication of \"Every Child Matters\", and was being created under Section 12 of the Children Act 2004. The idea of a child database, however, preceded the Laming report and was suggested in a report, \"Privacy and Data Sharing: The Way Forward for Public Services\", by the Performance and Innovation Unit, published on 11 April 2002 – over a year before the Laming report – and was not related to child abuse.\n\nThe pilot schemes (designated as identification, referral and tracking (IRT) schemes) began with Bolton council in 2003 and was used by eleven other local authorities. There were doubts as to the legality of Bolton council obtaining data of children from the local Primary Care Trust to put on the database, but the council was eventually advised that it was legal. The other pilot areas followed, in different ways. On 8 December 2005, the Secretary of State for Education and Skills, Ruth Kelly, made the official announcement of the introduction of the database, confirmed by the Minister of State for Children, Young People and Families, Beverley Hughes.\n\nTo allow the introduction of the database, the government required all local authorities to implement the Integrated Children's System, a framework to help improve outcomes for children. The government set a deadline of 1 January 2007, and 92 out of the 150 local authorities failed to achieve this. The government began a consultation on the 2007 draft regulations on 21 September 2006 which ended on 14 December 2006. In October 2006, the government selected Capgemini to design the database. On 15 February 2007, the database was renamed from \"Information Sharing Index\" to \"ContactPoint\", following research with stakeholder groups, including children and families, who decided that the name \"ContactPoint\" made clear what the purpose of the database was: to improve communication between those working with children. A consultation on a guide for database users was launched on 4 May 2007 and ended on 27 July 2007.\n\nThe database was expected to cost £224m to set up, spread over three years beginning December 2005 (therefore costing £81m a year for the first three years), and £41m a year thereafter. The database, which would be operating in 150 local authorities and would be accessible by at least 330,000 users, was expected to be fully operational by the end of 2008; however, following the 2007 UK child benefit data scandal, the deadline was pushed back for five months to allow a security review prior to implementation. Training for the workers had been planned begin in spring 2008.\n\nFollowing the 2010 General Election the new government scrapped the database as one of their measures 'to reverse the substantial erosion of civil liberties under the Labour Government and roll back state intrusion.' A YouGov poll found that there was no consensus over whether this was the correct or wrong decision.\n\nThe government said the database was set up to improve child protection by improving the way information about children was shared between services. Only professionals whose job involves supporting children would be able to access the database, and they would be required to undergo enhanced Criminal Records Bureau checks and training. Each local authority would decide who may access the database provided their role was listed in the ContactPoint Regulations. Users would need to provide a reason for accessing a record, and an audit trail would be kept on access to the database to help detect misuse. Professionals who have completed a Common Assessment Framework, a tool used to identify the severity of a child's situation, would be able to record on a child's record that they had carried this out. No information discovered in this way would be held on ContactPoint. Under the Data Protection Act, all organisations supplying data to the database would have to inform children and guardians through fair-processing notices. Subjects of the database could make access\nrequests, in writing, to view any personal data that organisations hold on them on the database and to correct any mistakes. The government estimated that the benefit of reducing unproductive work time using the database was valued at more than £88m.\n\nThe entries for each child were to consist of:\n\nThe database would not hold case or assessment material or any subjective observations. The database could include information of a 'sensitive' nature, defined as issues relating to sexual health, mental health and substance abuse, although consent from the child or the child’s guardians would have been needed, and it would not have appeared as such on the database; it would only note that the child was receiving help from 'sensitive services' and would not say what this was. Refusal of consent could be overridden if this could be justified. Margaret Hodge, then children’s minister, had said that drug or alcohol use by parents, relatives and neighbours, together with other aspects of their behaviour, may be recorded. Government guidelines reveal that other information recorded may have included 'family routines', evidence of a 'disorganised/chaotic lifestyle', 'ways in which the family’s income was used', signs of mental illness or alcohol misuse by relatives, and 'any serious difficulties in the parents’ relationship'.\n\nIn August 2006, the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) announced that the database would include telephone numbers or addresses of celebrities' children. Records of children who may be at risk could be 'shielded'; this would be determined on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe technical specification for ContactPoint did not include the capacity to store biometric data.\n\nThe database would hold information on about 11 million children in England. Records would be kept until six years after the child turns 18, or if they leave England and Wales with no intention of returning. The database could also apply to 18- to 25-year-olds who were care leavers or had learning disabilities (although the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child only applies to those under 18 in England and Wales), and their permission was needed.\n\nThere were significant privacy concerns about the database. The Foundation for Information Policy Research produced a report in November 2006, \"Children’s Databases – Privacy and Safety\", saying the database guidelines ignored family values and privacy, and that the details on the database needs to be 'looked at carefully'. The government responded by saying they had 'serious reservations about [the] report's objectivity and evidence base'. Terri Dowty, one of the report's authors, replied, 'it's an appalling aspersion to throw at some of the leading academics in this field. I'm astonished they are challenging the evidence we used since much of the evidence in the report is from the Government itself.' Action on Rights for Children said that the proposals invaded a child's right to privacy given by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, while the Joint Committee on Human Rights said that the 'serious interference' with the rights under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights – the right to respect for private life – seemed to be 'difficult to justify'. Liberty, a civil liberties interest group, said governments should not interfere with family life, warning against complacency 'about the importance of privacy in a free society'. The British Medical Association\nraised concerns that it may breach doctor–patient confidentiality. The phrase 'any cause for concern' was criticised as being potential overly wide-ranging and intrusive, and there were fears of function creep. A study by the Office of the Children's Commissioner, \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>I think it’s about trust<nowiki>'</nowiki>: The views of young people on information sharing\", found that children themselves were concerned about invasions of their privacy, and that they would be reluctant to use 'sensitive services' if this would go on the database.\n\nCommentators expressed concern about the country's increasing surveillance. In August 2004, the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, drawing a parallel with the way that governments in Eastern Europe and Spain gained too much power and information in the 20th century, expressed concern over this and other national databases, including the Citizen Information Project, NHS National Programme for IT, and the introduction of identity cards, warning that there was a danger of the country 'sleepwalk[ing] into a surveillance society'. On 18 April 2006, Des Browne, the Secretary of State for Defence, said 'the Department for Education and Skills should also consider whether there is scope to realise further efficiency and effectiveness benefits through a child population register', and it is thought that the database may be used in conjunction with the National Identity Register and other databases. Phil Booth, national coordinator of NO2ID, a group opposing identity cards, said this was 'cradle-to-grave surveillance'. Conservative Party member of parliament Oliver Heald said, 'there is already public concern at government plans for a compulsory identity card database, a nanny state children's database and a property database for the council tax\nrevaluation'. Liz Davies of London Metropolitan University argued that 'ContactPoint, the new database for every child in the country, is in effect a population-surveillance tool' and that 'for five years, the system to prevent child abuse has been vanishing before our eyes'. Fiona Nicholson of Education Otherwise, a home-education support group, agreed with this assessment and said that 'frontline staff working to protect vulnerable children have also expressed disbelief that investing hundreds of millions in IT can be the best way to safeguard children'. Laming, however, said that Davies' assertion was a 'gross distortion of what is an intelligent application of technology aimed at ensuring every child benefits from the universal services'. Privacy International awarded Hodge the 2004 Big Brother Award for 'Worst Public Servant', partly due to her backing of the database.\n\nSecurity concerns about the database were significant, and commentators said that there was a large risk of abuse of the system. Evidence presented in 2006 to the management board of the Leeds NHS Trust showed that in one month the 14,000 staff logged 70,000 incidents of inappropriate access. Sex offenders targeting children might have used the database to find vulnerable\nvictims. The celebrity exclusions were attacked, with critics saying that it underlined fears about security, and that government ministers could have decided to exclude their own children from the database. The proposals might have broken data protection and human rights laws.\n\nSome had said that the database might lead to self-fulfilling prophecies, where children from difficult backgrounds were treated as potential delinquents. The government was accused of using the public's response to the death of Victoria Climbié to force through the unpopular proposal and to curb civil liberties. There were concerns that the database would undermine child protection and parents, weakening the power of parents to look after children, and would 'do more harm than good'. The sheer size of the database could have meant that serious cases would be overlooked due to the abundance of minor incidents. There were doubts towards the government’s estimate of the cost of the database. The information commissioner estimates it at £1bn, which Hodge said was 'absurd', and others raised concerns over the cost, noting that government projects tend to go over-budget. Some questioned children’s ability to give informed consent in their own right. Mary Marsh, chief executive of the NSPCC, wanted the database to cover the whole of the United Kingdom, not just England and Wales, saying 'the information held would be only partial and potentially worse than useless'. On 27 June 2006, a child protection conference, 'Children: Over Surveilled, Under Protected', held at the London School of Economics, reached the conclusion that the database would do nothing to prevent child abuse, and that it would undermine parents' ability to look after their children.\n\nThe government rejected most of the negative criticism. The DfES said that the database would only contain basic information and 'will certainly not be including any information on children's diet or school attainment'. Laming had said that information for every child needs to be kept so that they would \"not\" be at risk. The government denied any possibility of function creep. They rebutted the concerns over privacy, with a spokesman for the DfES saying 'we are conscious of the need to respect personal privacy'. Hodge said that the database would be secure, that it would not undermine child protection and that it would help various agencies share information. Hughes said that the database would be secure and that 'we are confident we are doing all we could to ensure security'. The government said that they were confident that the database complied with the Data Protection Act and the Human Rights Act. Paul Ennals, chief executive of the National Children's Bureau, said, 'the index is a proportionate response to a continuing problem and any action that helps reduce the number of children who slip through the net must be welcome'.\n\nWith the publication of the accreditation procedures for organisations to access ContactPoint, it became clear that the vast majority of voluntary organisations would not have been able to access ContactPoint. This meant that the majority of organisations that work with children or young people e.g. sports groups, uniformed groups and faith groups, would not be able to register their involvement, representing a real challenge for practitioners who wanted to see who was working with a particular child or young person.\n\n"}
{"id": "40322872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40322872", "title": "Countries blocking access to The Pirate Bay", "text": "Countries blocking access to The Pirate Bay\n\nThis is a list of countries where at least one ISP formerly or currently censors the popular file sharing website The Pirate Bay.\n\nOn 30 June 2014 the Argentine CNC (National Communications Commission) ordered the blocking of all The Pirate Bay domains. The order originated as a product of a trial between the CAPIF (Argentinian Chamber of Phonograms Productors). With this order the CNC made the ISP block the IP blocks from 194.71.107.0 to 194.71.107.255 [\"sic\"], in which The Pirate Bay operates, and 12 different The Pirate Bay domains.\n\nAs of 2017, there is no confirmed blockade of the site in the country. Possibly due to the hack of the government site in protest and a general lack of interest.\n\nIn September 2014, the Australian government indicated that it was undergoing discussions regarding whether internet service providers should be forced to block popular torrent sites, including the Pirate Bay.\n\nOn 15 December 2016, the Federal Court of Australia came to the decision to proceed with the block, forcing ISPs to block access to The Pirate Bay, isoHunt, and SolarMovie, as well as the already defunct Torrentz and TorrentHound, by 5 January. Justice Nicholas said \"I am satisfied that the facilitation of the infringement of copyright is flagrant, and that the operator of the TPB sites has shown a blatant and wilful disregard for the rights of copyright owners.\" Despite some success with ISPs blocking access, sites such as The Pirate Bay are still easily accessed by VPNs or changing DNS.\nAs of 30 May 2016, Austrian ISPs are now once again free to unblock all previously blocked sites.\n\nAs of 2018, the Major ISPs have to block the sites again.\n\nAfter the founders of The Pirate Bay lost their 2009 trial, the Belgian Anti-Piracy Foundation (BAF) began arguing for two ISPsBelgacom and Telenetto block subscriber access to the site. After year-long negotiations broke down, the result was legal action. In July 2010, the Antwerpse Handelsrechtbank (Antwerp Commercial Court) ruled that neither ISP would have to block The Pirate Bay and went on to describe the notion of wholesale site blocking as \"disproportionate\". The ISPs said that it was not their position to decide which sites can and can not be accessed by their users. BAF accused them of providing a safe-haven to The Pirate Bay and filed an appeal.\n\nIn October 2011, The Antwerp Court of Appeal overruled the decision of the Commercial Court and ordered Belgacom and Telenet to initiate DNS blockades of 11 domains connected to The Pirate Bay within 14 days or face fines. A Pirate Bay spokesperson said that this measure would only have the opposite effect, as there are many ways to circumvent it, commenting: \"This will just give us more traffic, as always. Thanks for the free advertising.\" The court order listed domain names to block, which all included \"www.\" The equivalent URLs without \"www.\" were also blocked by ISPs who wished to comply with the \"spirit of the law\", although the court order did not specify this. NURPA, a nonprofit Belgian advocacy group which promotes and protects digital rights, freedom of expression, privacy and civil liberties, condemned the decision, saying: \"The decision of the Antwerp Court of Appeal in the case against Belgacom BAF / Telenet sets a dangerous precedent for blocking of content by Internet service providers in Belgium. It is incompatible with the doctrine of proportionality advocated by the European Court of Human Rights.\"\n\nOn 5 October 2011, The Pirate Bay registered the domain name depiraatbaai.be and baiedespirates.be, allowing Belgian users to access the site again, without using alternative DNS providers.\n\nOn 18 April 2012, TorrentFreak reports that these two alternate domain names were also blocked, presumably added to the already existing court order.\n\nThe site was blocked for a short time in November 2008 in the PRC with other BitTorrent sites, apparently unblocked and blocked again - as of January 2017, it remains inaccessible from mainland China (excluding Hong Kong and Macau).\n\nOn 5 February 2008, the district court of Frederiksberg, Copenhagen ruled that one of Denmark's largest ISPs, DMT2-Tele2, was assisting its customers in copyright infringement by allowing the use of The Pirate Bay, and that they were to block access to the site. Although the ISP had decided to challenge the verdict with support from the Danish Telecommunication Industries Association, they complied with it and blocked access to The Pirate Bay. The Pirate Bay reacted by creating an alternate site with instructions on how to work around the block, while the IFPI welcomed the block and encouraged other ISPs to follow suit. The verdict was affirmed in the Eastern High Court of Denmark on 26 November 2008. Following the court's decision, TDC, Denmark's largest ISP and owner of most of the cables, decided to block access to The Pirate Bay as a preventive measure. Other Danish ISPs have commented that they would prefer not to intervene in their customers' communication, but have reluctantly put the block in effect in order to avoid fines. Tele2's owner Telenor in turn appealed the high court verdict to the Supreme Court of Denmark, which in April 2009 accepted the case. In May 2010, the Court denied the appeal and ordered Telenor to continue blocking.\n\nOn 26 October 2011, the district court of Helsinki ruled that Elisa Oyj, one of the major internet service providers in Finland, must cease to provide copyrighted material from The Pirate Bay website by 18 November 2011 with the threat of a 100 000 € fine. On 9 January 2012, Elisa enabled DNS- and IP address–based ban to thepiratebay.org. Elisa has filed a complaint on the district court ruling. Even DNA and Telia (formerly Sonera) are blocking access after a ruling from District Court of Helsinki in 2012. Together these 3 operators, Elisa, Telia and DNA have over 80% of the Finnish internet operator market.\n\nOn 4 December 2014, the Paris High Court requested the major ISPs to block The Pirate Bay within the next two weeks.\n\nOn 13 May 2010, the Hamburg District Court ordered an injunction against CB3Rob Ltd & Co KG (Cyberbunker) and its operator, Sven Olaf Kamphuis, restraining them from connecting The Pirate Bay site to the Internet. The injunction application was brought by the Motion Picture Association's member companies.\n\nIn Greece, from 15 February 2010 until late March 2010, the ISPs Tellas/WIND Hellas blocked the site, as a side effect of blocking applied in Italy, since apparently traffic is routed via the sister network Wind Italy servers. As of November 9, 2018, all Greek providers are ordered by law to block access to The Pirate Bay for a minimum of three years.\n\nThe Pirate Bay, and some other file-sharing and video streaming sites, were blocked in India, from 4 May 2012, under orders of the Department of Telecom (DoT) without any stated reasons or prior warnings. The block was due to a Madras High Court issued John Doe order taken by Chennai-based Copyright Lab. The block was enforced by a number of ISPs, including Airtel, Reliance Communications, Tikona Digital Networks, Aircel, MTNL, BSNL and Vodafone. Some ISPs, such as You Broadband, Nextra Broadband and Hathway, however, did not enforce the block. As of 19 May 2012, the site was still blocked with the error message \"This website/URL has been blocked until further notice either pursuant to Court orders or on the Directions issued by the Department of Telecommunications\". In May 2012, the server of Reliance Communications was hacked by an anonymous group as a protest and to show the weakness of the security used to implement the block.\n\nOn 22 June 2012, the Madras High Court overturned the block, and clarified that only specific web addresses (or URLs) carrying the illegal copies should be blocked and not the entire website. The decision restored access in India to video and file-sharing sites, including The Pirate Bay.\n\nIn July 2014, the site was blocked again due to infringement caused in the policies regarding FIFA broadcasting activities in countries, with a \"This site has been blocked as per the instructions of Competent Authority\" message being displayed to visitors. A number of ISPs including the state-owned BSNL, Airtel and Vodafone India continue to block the website though they have ceased to display any custom message when a user heads to the Pirate Bay website. However, the website continues to be accessible on most other ISPs.\n\nThe Pirate Bay has been blocked by numerous internet ISPs in Indonesia. Internet Service Providers blocking it including the semi-private telecommunication Company of Indonesia (Telkom Indonesia) via its wholly owned ISP \"TelkomSpeedy\" and possibly some other ISPs. Internet users in Indonesia accessing this website (without proxy clients) will be redirected instead to another website named \"Internet Positif\" Internet Positif – Indonesia which is maintained by \"Kemkominfo\" (Ministry of Telecommunication and information of Indonesia). The website itself states that The Pirate Bay is blocked due to it having malicious contents such as pornography materials along with others.\n\nIn January 2009, Irish ISP Eircom, Ireland's largest internet provider, was taken to court by the four large music labels EMI, Sony, Universal Music Group and Warner Music Group in order to have the ISP monitor its customers and spot illegal file sharing. After eight court days, the parties reached a settlement to introduce a graduated response policy to disconnect customers involved in copyright infringing activity. The Irish Recorded Music Association continues to negotiate with other ISPs for a similar agreement. On 21 February 2009, Eircom, however, declared that access to The Pirate Bay would soon be blocked altogether, but retracted that on 24 February 2009, stating that they would not block without a court order. Eircom reversed themselves again on 20 August 2009, announcing that they would block the website starting in September. As of 1 September 2009 Eircom blocked access to The Pirate Bay, though it is still accessible via proxy servers, and still accessible in Ireland to subscribers of other ISP companies.\n\nIn a judgment given by Irish High Court Justice Peter Charleton, on 16 April 2010, ruled that the three strikes policy was legal and described the Pirate Bay as \"a site dedicated, on a weird ideological basis, to basically stealing the copyright owned by the plaintiffs in mainly musical works.\" Following the ruling, the judge was subjected to threats that his life would be \"wrecked by computer\".\n\nIn April 2011 the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice stated in a written opinion that from his view no ISP can be required to filter the Internet, and particularly not to enforce copyright law. In November 2011 European Court of Justice mainly confirmed this opinion in a ruling.\n\nAs of December 2011, a ruling against Eircom's \"three strikes\" anti-online filesharing system was passed due to privacy concerns with collecting of IP addresses.\n\nOn 12 June 2013, EMI, Sony, Warner Music and Universal won a court order for UPC, Imagine, Vodafone, Digiweb, Hutchison 3G Ltd and Telefónica O2 Ireland Ltd. to block access to The Pirate Bay, and have 30 days to do so.\n\nThe Pirate Bay is currently blocked in Iran.\n\nIn mid-2008, following the criminal charges raised in Sweden, the Italian Federation against Musical Piracy in Milan requested action in Italy. The deputy public prosecutor pursued the complaint in the Bergamo Court for Preliminary Investigations, which on 1 August 2008 decreed to block access from Italian ISPs to all Pirate Bay addresses. The ruling was based on prevention of copyright violations by the site's users in Italian territory. Once the block had been put in effect, The Pirate Bay responded on 10 August 2008 by posting instructions to work around the block and later by creating a separate site for Italians, but shortly afterwards the ISPs also blocked the alternate site. Some ISPs had implemented the block by redirecting The Pirate Bay traffic to a site owned by the IFPI. Italian security expert Matteo Flora suggested that by having the page redirected this way, IFPI could access Italian users' cookies and impersonate them on the official The Pirate Bay website. Two Italian IT lawyers Giovanni Battista Gallus and Francesco Micozzi together with forensics expert Matteo Flora appealed to the Bergamo court, which reviewed the case and on 24 September 2008 quashed the original ruling. The decision lifting the block was based on the applicability of the \"preventive seizure\" section of the Italian Code of Criminal Procedure, which cannot force actions on parties unrelated to the potential offence (ISPs to filter users' traffic). With the April 2009 verdict in Sweden as a precedent, the Bergamo prosecutor appealed the Italian ruling in the Supreme Court of Cassation to reinstate the block. In September 2009, the Supreme Court annulled the decision to overturn the block, and the case was again reviewed in the Bergamo court.\nOn 8 February 2010, the web site was blocked again by the Italian Supreme Court. At least since 2014 the site is blocked in Italy only at dns level on some ISPs. It is still fully accessible from the lesser known ones.\n\nIn June 2011, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission ordered the blocking of The Pirate Bay along with several other file-hosting websites via a letter, dated 30 May, to all Malaysian ISPs for violating Section 41 of the Copyright Act 1987, which deals with illegally copied content. The block was, however, removed in July 2014. Malaysia once again has blocked The Pirate Bay as of 4 June 2015. As of 2018, it doesn't seem to be blocked anymore due to a possible lack of interest and/or the change of government policies.\n\nOn 21 July 2005, the Amsterdam district court held a preliminary injunction hearing against the persons thought responsible for The Pirate Bay. The hearing followed a subpoena from the Dutch record industry trade association BREIN, who had an urgent complaint of intermediary copyright infringement. The defendants did not attend the hearing and hadn't arranged representation, so on 30 July 2009 the court entered an \"in absentia\" default judgment against them, accepting the complainants demands. It ruled that Neij, Kolmisoppi and Warg are \"to stop and keep stopped the infringements on copyright and related rights of Stichting Brein (foundation Brain) in the Netherlands\" within 9 August 2009, or face daily penalties of EUR 30,000, up to a maximum total of EUR 3,000,000. They were also ordered to pay the cost of the proceedings. In a separate case handled at the same time, the court ordered the same fines for the expected new owner of The Pirate Bay, Global Gaming Factory X, were it not to stop the copyright infringements after the site's takeover. According to BREIN director Tim Kuik, it is the first time a foreign website has been ordered to block access from the Netherlands. The BREIN, however, waived the payment of damages for August and allowed the site to stay online until its expected change of owners at the end of August 2009.\n\nOn 2 October 2009, The Pirate Bay's hosting services moved to Ukraine and their traffic was routed through The Netherlands, but BREIN contacted the ISP NForce and service was stopped. Subsequently The Pirate Bay moved their hosting location to a nuclear bunker owned by CyberBunker just outside Kloetinge in the south of the Netherlands.\n\nOn 11 January 2012, two Dutch Internet service providers (Ziggo and XS4ALL) were ordered by a court in The Hague to disable lookups of The Pirate Bay's domain names and to block access to The Pirate Bay's IP addresses. They started doing so on 31 January 2012. Pending the results of the appeal they needed to comply the court order. On 10 May 2012, five more ISPs were ordered to block the site (specifically UPC, KPN, T-Mobile, Tele 2 and Telfort). After a complaint by BREIN, a court in The Hague ordered the Pirate Party of the Netherlands to stop publicizing ways to circumvent the block. This included linking to a proxy server being offered by the Pirate Party of the Netherlands, and the Party claimed that it was also legally prevented from giving a link to the Tor project.\n\nOn 28 January 2014, The Court of Appeal in The Hague judged that the ongoing blockade was ineffective and, in addition, easy to circumvent, and decided that Ziggo and XS4ALL were no longer required to block access to The Pirate Bay. On 13 November 2015, the Supreme Court held that the Court of Appeal's findings on the effectiveness of the blockade were contrary to the case law of the European Court of Justice and referred preliminary questions to the ECJ, asking whether the activities of The Pirate Bay constitute a \"communication to the public\" and, if not, whether a blocking injunction can nevertheless be granted against ISPs who facilitate infringing activities.\n\nEuropean judges ruled in 2017 that the previous 2012 ruling was not in violation of European law, thus allowing for national courts in the European Union to instigate web-blocks on copyright grounds. The case was then relayed back to the Dutch Supreme Court, which as of January 2018 was still deciding on the matter. However, as the European Court order had now invalidated the 2014 decision, ISPs were yet again forced to block the Pirate Bay pending the Supreme Court decision. On January 12, this block was extended to the ISPs KPN, Tele2, T-Mobile, Zeelandnet and CAIW. Vodafone was indirectly affected since its merge with Ziggo.\n\nOn 2 September 2015 came the news that Norway would ban The Pirate Bay, including 6 other web pages. The case against ISPs Telenor, NextGenTel, Get, Altibox, TeliaSonera, Homenet and ice.net. Smaller ISPs weren't charged, and some, such as Lynet, have rejected blocking access to their customers since they approve of a free internet and were not involved in the case. The blocking is done using DNS blocking.\n\nOn 11 September 2015, Norway's two biggest internet providers Telenor and Altibox blocked their users access to The Pirate Bay. Film producers like Warner Bros., SF Norway and Disney, got favor in court on all counts in a lawsuit against several of the largest Internet providers in Norway.\n\nAsker and Bærum District Court rejected demands from the recording artists' copyright organisation TONO against Norway's largest internet provider, Telenor, to have The Pirate Bay blocked. In a court ruling on 6 November 2009 the court stated that in today's society it would be unnatural to demand of a private company that it should make judgments on whether a website complied with the law, since making such judgments is considered the responsibility of the authorities.\n\nIn December 2014, Vodafone blocked thepiratebay.se, instead redirecting to the site http://mobilegen.vodafone.pt/denied/dn with the message \"O site que pretende consultar encontra-se bloqueado por determinação judicial.\" (The \"site\" you are trying to access is blocked by court order.)\nMEO and NOS blocked thepiratebay.se at DNS level, showing a similar message \"O site a que se pretende aceder encontra-se bloqueado na sequência do cumprimento de ordem judicial\" (The site you want to access is blocked as a result of compliance with court order.)\n\nFile sharing and video streaming sites like The Pirate Bay, have been blocked in Qatar.\n\nRCS & RDS, UPC Romania, Telekom Romania, Nextgen Communication, Digital Cable Systems and AKTA Telekom will block customers access to three piracy sites for movies and serials (\"www.filmehd.net\", \"www.filmeonline2013.biz\" and the torrents \"www.thepiratebay.org\") being no longer allowed for Internet users in Romania, and operators must prohibit access to the related web addresses from the system. The decision was made in court by several film production companies (Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, Universal City Studios Productions LLP, Universal Cable Productions LLC, Warner Bros Entertainment INC, Paramount Pictures Corporation, Disney Enterprises, Columbia Pictures Industries and Sony Pictures Television). According to the court's decision, \"It is being permanently blocked by the method of DNS blocking access of the clients for the fixed access internet services to the websites currently accessible at the online locations indicated above. The decision is made by putting the solution at the disposal of the parties through the court registry, 05.11.2018 \". The decision is not final and may be appealed.\n\nAlso, the following proxy versions of \"www.thepiratebay.org\" will be banned:\n\n\"<nowiki>http://fbay.maik.rocks</nowiki>, htip://bayproxy.net, <nowiki>http://thepiratebayz.org</nowiki>, <nowiki>http://tpb.portalimg.com</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://fastpiratebay.co.uk</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://gameofbay.org</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://ikwilthepiratebay.org</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://oldbayproxy.eu</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirate.trade</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebay.click</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebay.red</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebayblocked.corn</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebaymirror.eu</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebayproxy.be</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebayproxy.tf</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebays.co</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://piratebays.co</nowiki>. uk, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.cam</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.dick</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.sh</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.tf</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.wf</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://pirateproxy.yt</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thebay.tv</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thehiddenbay.cc</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thehiddenbay.fi</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thehiddenbay.info</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thehiddenbay.ws</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay.bypassed.st</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay.co.in</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay.rocks</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay.uk.net</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay.unblocker.cc</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://thepiratebay-proxy.com</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://tpbbay.eu</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://tpbmirror.us</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://tpbunblocked.org</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://ukpirate.dick</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://ukpirate.org</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://ukpirateproxy.xyz</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://unblockedbay.info</nowiki>, <nowiki>https://urbanproxy.eu</nowiki>.\"\n\nEven if site access is illegal, the TPB proxy addresses are still valid at the current date. The main \"www.thepiratebay.org site\" is currently down in Romania, users experiencing a prolonged page load time and error code 522, unrelated to the official ban.\n\nThe Pirate Bay was blocked in June 2015 by several big ISPs throughout the country as the state blocks sites that contain files or references to files that infringe copyright laws.\n\nThe Saudi Arabian Ministry of Culture and Information blocked The Pirate Bay, along with multiple other torrenting sites, in August 2014.\n\nThe Singapore government had planned to block websites, including TPB, facilitating copyright infringement, so the Copyright Act 2014 was proposed to be amended in August 2014. However, on 29 November 2014, the Copyright Act amendment was cancelled.\n\nIn February 2016, a Singapore court ruled that copyright infringing websites must be blocked.\n\nIn a sweeping move, the Singapore Government ordered all Singapore ISPs to block 53 sites including TPB following an application by the MPAA. The ISPs are Singtel, M1, Starhub, MyRepublic and Viewqwest \n\nSince January 2015, Vodafone Spain blocks thepiratebay.org as requested by the Ministry of Interior. Since 29 March 2015 thepiratebay has been blocked on multiple URLs from all ISPs\n\nIn May 2010, The Pirate Bay's Swedish Internet service provider lost an appeal against an order to stop providing service to the site. Although the service provider had already complied with an earlier order in August 2009 and The Pirate Bay was thereafter hosted elsewhere, in June 2010 the ISP chose also to block their customers from accessing The Pirate Bay in its new location. One of the judges in the case later commented that the court's order didn't require the ISP to control their customers' access to the site, but the ISP wanted to avoid any risk. \nOn February 13, 2017 Sweden's Patent and Market Court of Appeal decided that a broadband provider must block its customers from accessing file sharing site The Pirate Bay, overruling a district court ruling to the contrary from 2015.\n\nThe Pirate Bay was blocked in Turkey for the first time in September 2007. The ban had been lifted after almost a year before the Presidency of Telecommunication and Communication of Turkey banned the website again on 30 October 2014. As of 2018, despite mass censorship, the site itself is accessible once again.\n\nThe Pirate Bay was blocked in the United Arab Emirates from September 2013. The ban has since been lifted except for the porn section.\nA https://thepiratebay.ae mirror was recently created to circumvent blockade.\n\nOn 20 February 2012, the High Court in London ruled that The Pirate Bay facilitates copyright infringement. The operators of The Pirate Bay were not represented at the hearing. On 30 April 2012 Justice Arnold ordered Sky, Everything Everywhere, TalkTalk, O2 and Virgin Media to block access to the site. BT \"requested a few more weeks to further consider its position.\" Virgin Media began blocking access to the site on 2 May 2012. A source at The Pirate Bay claimed that it had received 12 million more visitors on the day after the ban than it had ever received before, commenting \"We should write a thank you note to the BPI.\"\n\nBT has adapted its Cleanfeed system to enforce the block. The Pirate Bay commented \"As usual there are easy ways to circumvent the block. Use a VPN service to be anonymous and get an uncensored Internet access, you should do this anyhow.\" A study by Lund University suggested a 40% rise in the number of 15- to 25-year-olds using VPNs since 2009.\n\nOn 10 June 2012, TalkTalk began blocking access to the website for its UK customers. O2 and Sky Broadband have implemented the block, and on 19 June were joined by BT. Attempting to access The Pirate Bay via BT will produce the message \"Error – site blocked\".\nOther ISPs show a message explaining the court order, with The Pirate Bay logo and a link to the BPI website.\n\nIn mid July ISP data suggested that P2P traffic in the UK had dipped 11% just after the block, but then swiftly recovered to nearly the level before the block was enforced. \"...volumes are already pretty much back to where they were before.\" The ISP released the figures anonymously to the BBC.\n\nIn December 2012, a proxy of The Pirate Bay website run by the Pirate Party UK was shut down following a threat of legal action by the British Phonographic Industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2893056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2893056", "title": "Courtyard Crisis", "text": "Courtyard Crisis\n\nThe Courtyard Crisis () was a constitutional conflict between the Swedish king and prime minister and significant event in Swedish 20th-century history, marking the last time the Monarch of Sweden directly intervened in a controversial partisan political issue, as was done by the King Gustaf V through the Courtyard Speech at the Royal Palace in Stockholm () on 6 February 1914, in front of 32 000 assembled farmers from all over the country, in which he argued for higher military spending.\n\nIn early 1914, tensions ran high in Sweden over the issue of defence spending, with World War I looming over Europe. On 6 February 1914, Conservative opponents of the Liberal government of Prime Minister Karl Staaff summoned a 32 000-person demonstration of farmers demanding higher defence spending. Gustaf V, who was in continual conflict with his government, declared to the crowd gathered in the courtyard of Stockholm Palace that he shared their concerns.\n\nWhen Prime Minister Staaff reminded the King that a parliamentary system meant the latter's exclusion from partisan politics, the King refused and said he would \"not give up the right to communicate freely with the Swedish people\". The government promptly resigned, and 136 Liberal members from both chambers of the Riksdag issued a statement saying the form of government was in jeopardy, and urging the Swedish people to defend its right to rule itself. Their opponents, the Conservatives and the Farmers' League, in turn accused them of putting parliamentarism over national security, and called on the people to put every effort into solving the defence issue.\n\nThe King appointed a conservative government of high-ranking civil servants and businessmen led by Hjalmar Hammarskjöld, but tensions continued in the debate on spending. The second chamber of the Riksdag was dissolved and new elections called for.\n\nThe conflict abruptly ended that June with the imminent breakout of war in Europe, which in effect decided the argument in favour of the Conservatives; however, some reforms and budget amendments were implemented to appease the Liberals. In the end, only the Social Democrats voted against the defence programme, although 24 Liberal parliamentarians discarded their votes in protest.\n"}
{"id": "4880507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4880507", "title": "Defence Regulations", "text": "Defence Regulations\n\nDuring the Second World War Defence Regulations were a fundamental aspect of everyday life in the United Kingdom.\n\nThey were emergency regulations passed on the outbreak of war and during it to give the government emergency powers to prosecute the war. Two Acts of Parliament were passed as enabling legislation to allow the Defence Regulations to be promulgated. The first was the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1939, which was passed immediately before war was declared, and the second was the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1940, which was passed in the aftermath of the German attack on France in 1940. The 1940 Act allowed Defence Regulations to be made on matters such as industrial conscription.\n\nThe main Defence Regulations were the Defence (General) Regulations 1939, which were amended at various points throughout the war. Other Defence Regulations covered narrower fields of life. These included Defence Regulation 18B, which provided a framework for internment.\n\nThe Defence Regulations were Orders in Council and could amend any primary or secondary legislation within the limits of the enabling Acts to allow the effective prosecution of the war. Since the emergency conditions created by the war persisted after the conflict was over, the last of the Defence Regulations, mainly those on food rationing, were not abolished until the early 1950s.\n\nOriginally the regulations did not create any capital offences, since the law of treason was thought to be sufficient. Defence Regulation 2A provided that \"If, with intent to assist the enemy, any person does any act which is likely to assist the enemy or to prejudice the public safety, the defence of the realm or the efficient prosecution of the war, he shall be liable to penal servitude for life.\"\n\nHowever, in 1940 amendments to the regulations created two capital offences: \"forcing safeguards\" (breaking through roadblocks etc.) under regulation 1B, and looting under regulation 38A. A third new capital offence, called treachery, was created soon afterwards by the Treachery Act 1940.\n\nAfter the end of the war, the Defence Regulations were continued in force by the Supplies and Services (Transitional Powers) Act, 1945, and later by the Emergency Laws (Transitional Provisions) Act, 1946. The last significant Regulations to be in force before the passage of the Emergency Laws (Repeal) Act, 1959, were:\n\nUnder the terms of the 1959 Act, the last of the Defence Regulations expired on 31 December 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "41139514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41139514", "title": "Earthship Brighton", "text": "Earthship Brighton\n\nEarthship Brighton is a self-sustainable building, created in 2006 and owned by the Low Carbon Trust (a non-profit organisation), and situated in Stanmer Park, Brighton.\n\nThe building is an example of passive solar design and was constructed using waste car tyres and other recycled materials, such as cans and bottles. The structure incorporates rammed earth tyres, renewable power systems and rainwater harvesting. It uses the planet’s natural systems to provide heat, power and water and is designed to work as an autonomous building.\n\nThe Low Carbon Trust (originally the Low Carbon Network) crew were trained by Mike Reynolds, who designed the Earthship structure and is the founder of Earthship Biotecture. Earthship Brighton is currently one of only two Earthships in the UK and was the first Earthship to be built in England. \n\nEarthship Brighton is used as a community and education centre, with regular guided tours for the public. It is used as a venue for various green building courses, including a three-day course on ‘Self-building an Earthship’.\n\nIn 2007, a book was written about the project: “Earthships: building a zero carbon future for homes”.\n\nEarthship Brighton has won ten awards and commendations. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "550416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550416", "title": "Ejido", "text": "Ejido\n\nIn the Mexican system of government, an ejido (, from Latin \"exitum\") is an area of communal land used for agriculture, on which community members individually farm designated parcels and collectively maintain communal holdings. \"Ejidos\" are registered with Mexico's National Agrarian Registry (\"Registro Agrario Nacional\"). The system of \"ejidos\" was based on an understanding of the Aztec calpulli and the medieval Spanish ejido.\n\nDuring the colonial era and the 19th Century Liberal La Reforma and expansion of haciendas in the late 19th Century under Porfirio Díaz, landlessness was a serious issue in Mexico. It was one of the core problems that contributed to the outbreak of the Mexican Revolution, notably Morelos where Emiliano Zapata led revolutionary peasants seeking return of their lands. \"Tierra y libertad\" (land and liberty) was one of the slogans of the Revolution. Distribution of large amounts of land did not begin until Lázaro Cárdenas became president in 1934. The \"ejido\" system was introduced as an important component of the agrarian land reform in Mexico.\n\nThe typical procedure for the establishment of an ejido involved the following steps: \nEjidatarios do not actually own the land, but are allowed to use their allotted parcels indefinitely as long as they do not fail to use the land for more than two years. They can pass their rights on to their children.\n\nOpponents of the ejido system pointed to widespread corruption within the \"Banco Nacional de Crédito Rural\" (Banrural), the primary institution responsible for providing loans to ejiditarios, illegal sales and transfers of ejido lands, ecological degradation, and low productivity as evidence of the system's failure, but defendants countered these arguments by pointing out that every administration since that of Cárdenas had been either indifferent or openly hostile to ejidos, that the land assigned to ejidos was often of lower quality and therefore inherently less productive than privately held land, that the majority of agricultural research and support was biased towards large-scale commercial enterprises, that the politicians complaining about Banrural were the people responsible for the corruption, and that, regardless of its productivity, subsistence production is an important survival strategy for many peasants.\n\nAs part of a larger program of neoliberal economic restructuring that had already been weakening support for ejidal and other forms of small-scale agriculture and negotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Harvard-educated President Carlos Salinas de Gortari in 1992 pushed legislation through congress that modified article 27 of the national constitution to permit the privatization and the sale of ejidal land. This was a direct cause of the Chiapas conflict.\n\nThe changes to the ejidal system have largely failed to improve ejidal productivity, and have been implicated as significant contributing factors to worsening rural poverty, forced migration, and the conversion of Mexico, where the cultivation of maize originated, into a net-importer of maize and food in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "917046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=917046", "title": "Ferme générale", "text": "Ferme générale\n\nThe ferme générale (, \"general farm\") was, in \"ancien régime\" France, essentially an outsourced customs, excise and indirect tax operation. It collected duties on behalf of the King (plus hefty bonus fees for themselves), under renewable six-year contracts. The major tax collectors in that highly unpopular tax farming system were known as the fermiers généraux (singular fermier général), which would be \"tax farmers-general\" in English.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries the \"fermiers généraux\" became immensely rich and figure prominently in the history of cultural patronage, as supporters of French music, major collectors of paintings and sculpture, patrons of the \"marchands-merciers\" and consumers of the luxury arts in the vanguard of Parisian fashions. In his 1833 novel \"Ferragus\", writer Honoré de Balzac attributes the sad air that hangs about the Île Saint-Louis in central Paris to the many houses there owned by fermiers généraux. Their sons or grandsons purchased patents of nobility and their daughters often married into the aristocracy. Especially members of impoverished aristocratic families were eager to marry daughters of the \"fermiers généraux\" in order to restore the wealth they had prior to their ruin. This was called in popular French \"redorer son blason\" (literally \"to re-gild one's coat of arms\").\n\nBefore the French Revolution in 1789, the public revenue was based largely on the following taxes:\n\nThe \"Ferme générale\" developed at a time when the monarchy suffered from chronic financial difficulties. The \"Affermage\" (leasing, outsourcing) of the collection of the \"traite\" (customs duties and taxes) had the advantage of guaranteeing the Treasury foreseeable and regular receipts, while reducing the perception of its role in tax-collection. The rights were initially contracted separately to various tax farmers, who were named \"traitants\" (who had the right to collect the \"traite\") or \"partisans\" (who had a share (\"partie\") in the collection of the \"traite\"). They were obliged to pay to the Royal Treasury the sum stipulated in their lease, and they received a share of the income and a share of any \"unexpected\" surplus. Each right was leased separately, which caused great administrative complexity: the taking of goods out of bond could involve several tax farms. Prior to 1598, this system had developed so that the tax farms were allocated among five \"pays\" (parts of France).\n\nIn 1598 the Superintendent of Finances, the Duke of Sully, entrusted tax collection to one farm instead of five separate ones, and subjected the collection of duties raised in the provinces to the rights of the King. The single tax farm was called the \"Cinq Grosses Fermes\" (five large farms). In 1607, he issued new rules (\"Règlement Général sur les Traites\") on the collection of duties in an attempt to harmonize procedures. He also attempted to constitute the whole of France into a single customs area, but was without success, as the provinces \"considered foreign\" (i.e. which became part of France after the foundation of the Kingdom; especially the south and Brittany) refused to merge with the zone covered by the \"Cinq Grosses Fermes\". By the middle of the 17th century, France was divided for tax purposes into three principal zones: \n\nNot all \"fermiers-généraux\" constrained their viewpoint to their own enrichment: Pierre-Paul Riquet, appointed collector in Languedoc-Roussillon in 1630, used his fortune to build the Canal du Midi that links the Mediterranean coast of France to Toulouse and then on to the system of canals and rivers that ran across to the Bay of Biscay on the Atlantic coast, considered to be one of the great engineering feats of the 17th century.\n\nThe process was further developed under the aegis of Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Minister of Finance to King Louis XIV. \nTo reduce the number of these farmers and to increase the share of the collection transferred to the Royal Treasury, Colbert sought to gather a great number of rights together in \"fermes générales\" (general farms). The first \"fermes générales\" was instituted in 1680 to collect \"gabelles\", \"aides\", \"taille\" and \"douane\" .\n\nAlthough sometimes of obscure origin, the financiers which took these rights often quickly accumulated immense fortunes which enabled them to play a significant political and social role. Their greed and excesses shocked the public and were often turned into objects of ridicule in literature, for example by playwright Alain-René Lesage in his 1709 comedy \"Turcaret\", which was inspired by financier Paul Poisson de Bourvallais.\n\nIn 1726, all the existing farms were gathered in a single lease. The forty farmers-general, who held guarantees as contractors of the lease, became powerful and fabulously rich. Examples of the first generation of these tax farmers include Antoine Crozat, the first private owner of French Louisiana, the four Pâris brothers, and Alexandre Le Riche de La Poupelinière.\n\nIncreased criticism of the \"Ferme générale\" system led the government to introduce new regulations in 1769, which turned the collection of taxes and the administration of the service to which taxation was entrusted to public organisations, with their managers receiving a fixed remuneration. The public career of the reforming economist Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot began with his appointment in 1761 as \"intendant\" of the \"généralité\" of Limoges.\n\nIn 1780, at the initiative of Jacques Necker, finance minister to Louis XVI, indirect taxes were distributed between three tax farm companies: the \"Ferme générale\" (for customs duties), the \"Ligue générale\" (for taxes on alcohol) and the \"Administration générale des domaines et des droits domaniaux\" (for land taxes and fees for land registration).\n\nBy the end of the 18th century, the \"Ferme générale\" system became a symbol of an unequal society. The \"Ferme générale\", and the great wealth of its proprietors, was seen as encapsulating all the perversions of the political and social system. People blamed the injustices and annoyances - which actually arose from the complexity of the tax system - on the company itself, including the brutality of tax collecting troops and the brutal repression of smuggling. The \"gabelle\" (tax on salt) was the most unpopular of all the taxes.\n\nThe \"Ferme générale\" was thus one of the institutions of the \"Ancien Régime\" which was most criticised during the 1789 French Revolution. It was depicted as a group of predatory tyrants; the Girondist politician Antoine Français de Nantes, made an early reputation for himself attacking this prominent target. The \"Ferme générale\" was then suppressed in 1790, with farmers-general paying the price at the scaffold: 28 former members of the consortium were guillotined on 8 May 1794. Among them was Antoine Lavoisier, the father of modern chemistry, whose laboratory had been supported by income from his administration of the \"Ferme générale\". His wife, the chemist Marie-Anne Pierrette Paulze, who escaped the guillotine, was herself the daughter of another farmer-general, Jacques Paulze.\n\nThe lease of the \"Ferme générale\" was regulated by six-year contracts between the King and an individual who acted as a figurehead for the company. The \"Ferme générale\" held guarantee for the contractor. The number of partners was fixed at 40, after having reached nearly 90 earlier. The contractor committed himself to paying the Royal Treasury the amount of the lease and received in return any surplus. In 1780 an upper limit was set for this remuneration.\n\nThe \"Ferme générale\" had its headquarters in Paris. In its central offices it employed nearly 700 people, including two chaplains. Its local operations included up to 42 provincial offices and nearly 25,000 agents distributed in two branches of activity; that of the offices which checked, liquidated and charged the fees and that of the guards' brigades which sought and suppressed smuggling with very severe punishments (such as hard labour or hanging).\n\nThe employees of the \"Ferme générale\" were not royal civil servants but they acted in the name of the king, and therefore benefited from particular privileges and the protection of the law. In addition, members of the guards' brigades had the right to bear weapons. The managing of the company was handled collectively by the \"Ferme générale\". They met as committees of experts and had control of the company's external services.\n\nThe day before the French Revolution in 1789, almost all the rights of indirect drafts and rights (like the \"gabelle\", the tax on tobacco, and a number of local taxes) were awarded. On the other hand, the Royal Treasury's income from the \"Ferme générale\" represented more than half of the total public revenue. The company had also built the 24-kilometre Wall of the Farmers-General between 1784 and 1791 in Paris to ensure the payment of taxes on goods entering the city.\n\nThe \"Ferme générale\" was one of the most hated components of the \"Ancien Régime\" because of the profits it took at the expense of the state, the secrecy of the terms of its contracts, and the violence of its armed agents. Criticism of the \"Ferme générale\" also include:\n\nTherefore, at the end of the 18th century, the French state had become involved in considerable debt, which factored among the causes of the French Revolution.\n\nThe farmers-general of the \"Ancien Régime\" figure prominently in the history of cultural patronage in France. The enlightened farmer-general Le Normant de Tournehem was the legal guardian of Madame de Pompadour, responsible for her education - in turn, thanks to her influence, he was made director-general of the \"Bâtiments du Roi\" in December 1745, and held the post, overseeing royal building works at the King's residences in and around Paris, until his death in 1751. As American architect Fiske Kimball observed, “Without artistic prejudices, he was a man of ability, honesty and simplicity, who devoted himself to efficient administration\".\n\nFarmers-general also figured among prominent supporters of French music and collectors of paintings and sculpture, such as Pierre Grimod du Fort, and as patrons of the \"marchands-mercier\", a type of merchants who dealt with decorative art objects.\n\nAs consumers of luxurious art the farmers-general were at the vanguard of Parisian fashion, like Ange Laurent Lalive de Jully, a patron of arts who embraced the early form of neoclassicist style in decorative arts called the \"goût grec\" (lit. \"Greek taste\"). Others merely made themselves notorious for their squander, like Ange Laurent's brother Denis Joseph de La Live d'Épinay, the estranged husband of the writer and \"saloniste\" Louise d'Épinay. The gourmand Alexandre Balthazar Laurent Grimod de La Reynière was the son of the farmer-general Laurent Grimod de La Reynière. \nSons or grandsons of farmer-generals often purchased patents of nobility, with their daughters marrying into aristocracy.\n\nIn his \"Voltaire, A Life\" (pp. 427–31), Ian Davidson describes events on Voltaire's estate at Ferney, north of Geneva, in the 1770s.\n\nIn 1770, hundreds of watchmakers fled the political ructions in Geneva and went to make a new life at Ferney. Voltaire helped them to set up a new watchmaking business. He negotiated a tax exemption for the watchmakers with the duc de Choiseul, Prime Minister of France. But by 1774, the business was prospering and the tax farmers started to take an interest. Three-way negotiations between the tax farmers, Voltaire and Turgot ensued. In December 1775, Turgot confirmed the watchmakers' exemption from the salt tax (\"gabelle\") and from road maintenance duties (\"corvée\") and a figure was agreed to compensate the tax farmers for loss of revenue. Voltaire addressed a public meeting on 12 December and the watchmakers accepted the settlement.\n\nTwo days later, Voltaire wrote to his friend Mme de Saint-Julien:\n\n\"... while we were gently passing our time in thanking M. Turgot, and while the whole province was busy drinking, the gendarmes of the tax farmers, whose time runs out on 1 January, had orders to sabotage us. They marched about in groups of fifty, stopped all the vehicles, searched all the pockets, forced their way into all the houses and made every kind of damage there in the name of the king, and made the peasants buy them off with money. I cannot conceive why the people did not ring the tocsin against them in all the villages, and why they were not exterminated. It is very strange that the \"ferme générale\", with only another fortnight left for them to keep their troops here in winter quarters, should have permitted or even encouraged them in such criminal excesses. The decent people were very wise and held back the ordinary folk, who wanted to throw themselves on these brigands, as if on mad wolves.\"\n\nAccording to Davidson, good sense prevailed despite this violence, Voltaire was appointed a tax commissioner, profits peaked in 1776 and the watchmaking business survived the revolution and continued \"well into the nineteenth century\".\n"}
{"id": "10616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10616", "title": "Frivolous litigation", "text": "Frivolous litigation\n\nIn law, frivolous litigation is the practice of starting or carrying on lawsuits that, due to their lack of legal merit, have little to no chance of being won. The term does not include cases that may be lost due to other matters not related to legal merit. While colloquially, a person may term a lawsuit to be frivolous if he or she personally finds a claim to be absurd, in legal usage \"frivolous litigation\" consists of a claim or defense that is presented where the party (or the party's legal counsel) had reason to know that the claim or defense was manifestly insufficient or futile. The fact that a claim is lost does not imply that it was frivolous.\n\nFrivolous litigation may be based on absurd legal theories, may involve a superabundance or repetition of motions or additional suits, may be uncivil or harassing to the court, or may claim extreme remedies. A claim or defense may be frivolous because it had no underlying justification in fact, or because it was not presented with an argument for a reasonable extension or reinterpretation of the law. A claim may be deemed frivolous because existing laws unequivocally prohibit such a claim, such as a so-called Good Samaritan law.\n\nIn the United States, Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and similar state rules require that an attorney perform a due diligence investigation concerning the factual basis for any claim or defense. Jurisdictions differ on whether a claim or defense can be frivolous if the attorney acted in good faith. Because such a defense or claim wastes the court's and the other parties' time, resources and legal fees, sanctions may be imposed by a court upon the party or the lawyer who presents the frivolous defense or claim. The law firm may also be sanctioned, or even held in contempt.\n\nIn the United States Tax Court, frivolous arguments may result in a penalty of up to $25,000 under . Similarly, section 7482 of the Internal Revenue Code provides that the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. Courts of Appeals may impose penalties in which the taxpayer's appeal of a U.S. Tax Court decision was \"maintained primarily for delay\" or where \"the taxpayer's position in the appeal is frivolous or groundless.\" A common example, as shown below, is an argument based on tax protestor claims.\n\nIn a noncriminal case in a U.S. District Court, a litigant (or a litigant's attorney) who presents any pleading, written motion or other paper to the court is required, under Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, to certify that, to the best of the presenter's knowledge and belief, the legal contentions \"are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law\". Monetary civil penalties for violation of this rule may in some cases be imposed on the litigant or the attorney under Rule 11.\n\nIn one case, the Seventh Circuit Court issued an order giving such an attorney \"14 days to show cause why he should not be fined $10,000 for his frivolous arguments\". A similar rule penalizing frivolous litigation applies in U.S. Bankruptcy Court under Rule 9011.\n\nThe U.S. Congress has enacted section 1912 of Title 28 of the U.S.C. providing that in the U.S. Supreme Court and in the U.S. Courts of Appeals where litigation by the losing party has caused damage to the prevailing party, the court may impose a requirement that the losing party pay the prevailing party for those damages.\n\nLitigants who represent themselves (\"in forma pauperis\" and \"pro se\") sometimes make frivolous arguments due to their limited knowledge of the law and procedure. The particular tendency of prisoners to bring baseless lawsuits led to passage of the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which limits the ability of prisoners to bring actions without payment. \n\nAn example of a Court's treatment of frivolous arguments is found in the case of \"Crain v. Commissioner\", 737 F.2d 1417 (1984), from the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit:\n\nFiling a claim that is ultimately deemed frivolous can be highly damaging to the attorney so filing. Attorney Daniel Evans writes:\n\nIn \"Washington v. Alaimo\" the court listed more than seventy-five frivolous \"motions\" (a request for a court to issue an order), all of which required the attention of the Court, including the following:\n\nWashington, an inmate from Georgia, was eventually prohibited from filing any future lawsuits or motions in any district court unless he first posted a contempt bond of $1,500. To be deemed frivolous, a litigant's arguments must strike beyond the pale.\n\nIn 2005, in \"Pearson v. Chung\", Roy Pearson, a Washington, D.C. judge, sued a dry cleaning business for $67 million for allegedly losing a pair of his pants. This case has been cited as an example of frivolous litigation. According to Pearson, the dry cleaners lost his pants (which he brought in for a $10.50 alteration) and refused his demands for a large refund. Pearson believed that a sign saying \"Satisfaction Guaranteed\" in the window of the shop legally entitled him to a refund for the cost of the pants, estimated at $1,000. The $54 million total also included $2.0 million in \"mental distress\" and $15,000 which he estimated to be the cost of renting a car every weekend to go to another dry cleaners. The court ultimately ruled against Pearson, whose judgeship was subsequently not renewed due to this case and several other actions he filed during his divorce, which were found to demonstrate a lack of \"judicial temperament.\"\n\nIn 2010, federal prosecutors asked a judge to help them stop Jonathan Lee Riches from filing any more lawsuits, arguing that his frequent filings were frivolous.\n\nIn July 2013, the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario dismissed a complaint laid by a man posing as Gloria Dawn Ironbox, a fictional feminist attorney on television series \"Family Guy\". The claimant alleged that the a marketing scheme by A&W Restaurants was \"heteronormative\", \"phallocentric\" and promoted \"cross-sectional hegemony.\" Citing feelings of distress and alienation over the lack of \"LGBT\" representation in A&W naming conventions, he demanded $50,000 in damages for injury to dignity and self-respect as well as an order requiring A&W to adopt naming conventions which include non-traditional families. One such product the claimant demanded was the \"Pillow Biter\", described by the claimant as \"a large, dark slab of meat stuffed firmly between two, white, clenched buns.\"\n\nIn January 2014, Sirgiorgio Sanford Clardy, who is serving a 100-year prison sentence for a beating of a prostitute and her customer, has filed \"a $100 million lawsuit against Nike\", for which Clardy claims the shoe manufacturer is partially responsible. Clardy says that \"Nike should have placed a label in his Jordan shoes warning consumers that they could be used as a dangerous weapon. He was wearing a pair when he repeatedly stomped the face of a john who was trying to leave a Portland hotel without paying Clardy's prostitute in June 2012. According to The Oregonian, this lawsuit has gained \"considerable attention across the nation and the world.\"\n\nIn March 2016, James Romine, an independent video game developer who founded Digital Homicide Studios sued a well known video game critic Jim Sterling (James Stanton) for criticizing the games published under his studios' name, seeking $10 million in damages for \"assault, libel, and slander\" to Romine's business. He claimed that Stanton's coverage of his studio's game \"The Slaughtering Grounds\" as \"Worst Game of 2014 Contender\" was not protected under fair use law because he did not believe it was \"fair\" criticism. An additional lawsuit for $18 million was filed against 100 users on the Steam gaming platform for criticizing their games and business practices, which he had interpreted as \"harassment\". The judge issued a subpoena against Valve Corporation to disclose the identities of those 100 users. This resulted in Valve removing all published games from Digital Homicide Studios. It also didn't help that Romine filed the lawsuit as an individual and not as a corporation, and that such criticism is protected under the right to freedom of speech. The case was dismissed with prejudice in February 2017. This case is also an example of abuse of DMCA takedown requests on YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "19400882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400882", "title": "Hauser's law", "text": "Hauser's law\n\nHauser's law is the proposition that, in the United States, federal tax revenues since World War II have always been approximately equal to 19.5% of GDP, regardless of wide fluctuations in the marginal tax rate. Historically, since the end of World War II, federal tax receipts as a percentage of gross domestic product averaged 17.9%, with a range from 14.4% to 20.9% between 1946 - 2007.\n\nThe proposition was first put forward in 1993 by William Kurt Hauser, a San Francisco investment analyst, who wrote, \n\nIn a May 20, 2008 editorial by David Ranson, the Wall St. Journal published a graph showing that even though the top marginal tax rate of federal income tax had varied between a low of 28% to a high of 91%, between 1950 and 2007, federal tax revenues had remained close to 19.5% of GDP. The editorial went on to say, \n\nFrom fiscal year 1946 to fiscal year 2007, federal tax receipts as a percentage of gross domestic product averaged 17.9%, with a range from 14.4% to 20.9%. 2009 tax collections, at 15% of GDP, were the lowest level of the past 50 years and 4.5 percentage points lower than Hauser's law suggests. The Heritage Foundation has stated that the recent world economic recession pushed receipts to a level significantly below the historical average.\n\nForbes.com columnist Daniel J. Mitchell has argued that Hauser's Law has been observed due to the fact that the U.S. does not have a national sales tax and instead collects taxes in a federalist system, in contrast to many other Western nations. He also stated that the U.S. has an inherently more progressive system as well. Thus, he concluded that the Law represents a socio-political policy trend rather than a true economic law and that the trend could change rapidly if value-added taxes are imposed at the federal level.\n\nEconomist Mike Kimel, writing for the Angry Bear website, has stated that Hauser's Law is misleading as it sweeps large differences under the table. He wrote that tax revenue is higher in the years following a tax increase and lower in the years following a tax cut. He defined the time periods 1951-1953, 1967-1968, and 1991-2001 as \"tax hike eras\", and 1953-1967, 1969-1991, 2001-2010 as \"tax cut eras\", and points out that tax revenues increase in \"tax hike eras\" and that tax cuts lead to lower revenues.\n\nZubin Jelveh, writing for Portfolio.com, criticized the \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial for failing to adequately separate social insurance taxes from other types of tax revenues (such as income tax and corporate tax revenue). Because social insurance taxes go directly into the Social Security trust fund, revenue that is not earmarked for pension checks has actually declined as a percentage of GDP over the last 50 years. Jelveh points out that the main reason for this decline is a dramatic decline in corporate tax revenues, from more than 5% of GDP to less than 2%. Jelveh uses these facts to critique editorialist David Ranson's use of Hauser's Law to argue that raising tax rates on the rich will be ineffective at raising revenue.\n\nJournalist Jonathan Chait has written in \"The New Republic\" that \"swings are fairly dramatic\" through U.S. history for tax receipts as a percent of GDP. He stated that the George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton administrations received \"massive\" extra revenues as the result of tax increases while the George W. Bush administration tax cuts lead to a \"massive\" drop in revenues. He labeled the idea of static, flat revenues as a \"scam\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3680801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680801", "title": "Head of state succession", "text": "Head of state succession\n\nHead of state succession is the process by which nations transfer leadership of their highest office from one person to another. The succession of a head of state can be brought about through various means, the most common of which include:\n\n\nThe changing of national leadership has been the topic of several films, novels, and television series, including the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "24697762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24697762", "title": "Hitaffer v. Argonne Co.", "text": "Hitaffer v. Argonne Co.\n\nHitaffer v. Argonne Co., 183 F.2d 811 (D.C. Cir. 1950), was a case decided by the D.C. Circuit that first recognized a wife's right to bring a cause of action for loss of consortium.\n"}
{"id": "38095456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38095456", "title": "International Association of Judicial Independence and World Peace", "text": "International Association of Judicial Independence and World Peace\n\nThe International Association of Judicial Independence and World Peace and its members have been active in promoting judicial independence for over 30 years.\nIt has conducted international projects and adopted international standards on judicial independence.\nAmong the international standards which the association and its members were active in promotion: New Delhi Minimum Code of Judicial Independence, adopted in cooperation with the International Bar Association in 1982; The Montreal Declaration on the independence of justice adopted in cooperation with The World Association of Justice in 1983; and The Mount Scopus Standards of Judicial Independence in 2008.\n\n\n1980-82: The members of the Association developed The Code of Minimum Standards of Judicial Independence which were adopted in New Delhi, under the framework of the International Bar Association. this was done in conferences in Berlin, Lisbon, Jerusalem and New Delhi.\n\n1983: The members took part in drafting the Montreal Universal Declaration on the Independence of Justice.\n\n1985: The works of the project conducted during 1980-1985 were published in Prof. Shimon Shetreet and Chief Justice Jules Deschênes, ed., Judicial independence: The contemporary debate (Martinus Nijhoff 1985)\n\n1986: General Report on human rights was presented at the 12th Congress of Comparative Law, Sydney, Melburn, Australia.\n\n1991: The major report on \"Independence and Responsibility of Judges and Lawyers\" was presented in the International Congress of the World Association on Procedural Law, Coimbra - Lisbon, Portugal.\n\n2000: The members of the Association contributed to the study of the Discretionary Power of the Judge, in the 50th Anniversary of the International Association of Procedural Law, University of Ghent.\n\n1999-2009: Members of the Association took part in the Culture of Peace Project and in the Religions for Peace Organization International (RPO International) and organized conferences around the world.\n\n2007-2012: Revision during series of conferences in Jerusalem 2007, Vadouz 2007, Jerusalem 2008, Kraków 2008, Cambridge 2009, Utah 2010, Vienna 2011, Hong Kong 2012 and Ghent 2012 of the 1982 New-Delhi Minimum Standards of Judicial Independence which was concluded in the Mt. Scopus International Standards on Judicial Independence.\n\nThe members of the Association are distinguished jurists and scholars from all around the world.\n\nPresident - Prof. Shimon Shetreet\nVice President - Prof. Daniel Thurer\nVice President - Adv. Markus BuechelDeceased 9 July 2013\nVice President - Prof. Marcel Storme\nSecretary and Treasurer - Adv. Gian Andrea Danuser\nAuditor - Prof. Heinz C. Hoefer - Liechtenstein\n\nCo-Chairs\n\nVice Chair\n\nMembers\n\nThe Association and its members organized numerous conferences around the world. In the last decade, the Association organized conferences in: Ghent, Belgium (October 2012), Hong Kong City, Hong Kong (March 2012), Vienna, Austria (2011), Salt Lake City, USA (2010), Cambridge, UK (2009), Kraków, Poland (November 2008), Jerusalem, Israel (March 2008), Vaduz, Lichtenstein (December 2007), Jerusalem, Israel (June 2007)\n\nOne of the significant conferences was held at the University of San Diego in August 2013, and focused on Judicial Independence World Peace and the Rule of Law\nThe last conference was held in Moscow (May 29 - June 1, 2014), organised by Dmitry Magonya, Dmitry Maleshin, Irina Reshetnikova.\n\nThe New Delhi Code provided for necessary safeguards of judicial independence on the following aspects:\n\nThe Mount Scopus International Standards emphasized the importance of maintaining constitutional safeguards of judicial Independence and securing judicial independence from numerous aspects including: collective independence of the judiciary, internal independence of the judge vis-a-vi his colleagues and his administrative superiors, the significance of insuring reflective judiciary i.e. judiciary which reflects all sectors of society and the importance of providing educate resources for the judiciary to perform its functions, and the total separation of powers between judicial functions and executive responsibility.\n\nShimon Shetreet and Jules Deschenes, Judicial Independence: The Contemporary Debate (1985 Martinus Nijhoff)\n\nShimon Shetreet and Christopher Forsyth, The Culture of Judicial Independence: Conceptual Foundations and Practical Challenges.\n\n"}
{"id": "38259749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38259749", "title": "Jobs and Growth Act", "text": "Jobs and Growth Act\n\nThe Jobs and Growth Act, 2012 (informally referred to as Bill C-45) (the \"Act\") is an Act of the Parliament of Canada. It was passed in December 2012 from the second omnibus bill introduced by the Conservative government to implement its 2012 budget, following the passage of the \"Jobs, Growth and Long-term Prosperity Act\" in June 2012. Both bills attracted controversy both for their size (>450 pages each) and for the breadth of provisions contained that were not fiscally related.\n\n\"The most contentious amendments to the bill were those to the \"Navigable Waters Protection Act\", which remove thousands of lakes and streams from federal protection under that law. The Conservatives said the changes streamline regulation and remove red tape that held up projects along waterways under the guise that they would impede navigation. Opposition parties say it removes environmental oversight over some of Canada's most treasured lakes and rivers.\" \n\nThe Green Party argued that Division 18 of Part 4 of Bill C-45 \"weakened Canadians’ historic right to navigate the lakes, rivers, and streams of Canada without being impeded by pipelines, bridges, power lines, dams, mining and forestry equipment, and more.\" They argue that a body of water not mentioned in Schedule 2 on page 424, would no longer be protected from resource development by Canada's first environmental law enacted in 1882, the Navigable Waters Protection Act. \n\nAmnesty International said \"changes to the \"Canadian Environmental Assessment Act\", the \"Fisheries Act\", the \"Navigable Waters Protection Act\", and the proposed \"Safe Drinking Water for First Nations Act\" have profound implications for the rights of Indigenous peoples as set out in treaties, affirmed in the constitution, and protected by international human rights standards.\" \n\nFormer Prime Minister Paul Martin argued that the government failed to consult First Nations about this movement towards [privatization] and that the majority of bands were against the change to voting procedures. Martin stated that there was no debate either in parliament or with First Nations on this issue that \"the bands themselves must decide.\" He denounced the way in which it was \"simply slipped it into a budget bill.\" \n\nIdle No More is a protest movement formed in reaction to Bill C-45 (Division 8 of Part 4) and other concerns regarding indigenous treaty rights. \n\nPolitical scientist Tom Flanagan, who worked as advisor to Stephen Harper until 2004, argued that the modifications to voting and approval procedures in relation to proposed land designations in the \"Indian Act\" in (Division 8 of Part 4) would speed up approvals which would be advantageous to First Nations that want to lease portions of their reserves for shopping centres, industrial parks, residential developments, casinos, etc. Under the \"Indian Act\" changes to land designation for leasing \"had to be approved by majority vote in a referendum or band meeting for which the quorum was a majority of members – in other words, approval by a majority of a majority. If, as usually happened, the quorum was not achieved, the Minister of Aboriginal Affairs could authorize a second meeting dispensing with the quorum.\" Flanagan argued that this two-stage process was both costly and time consuming.\n\n"}
{"id": "1620241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620241", "title": "Justiciability", "text": "Justiciability\n\nJusticiability concerns the limits upon legal issues over which a court can exercise its judicial authority. It includes, but is not limited to, the legal concept of standing, which is used to determine if the party bringing the suit is a party appropriate to establishing whether an actual adversarial issue exists. Essentially, justiciability in American law seeks to address whether a court possesses the ability to provide adequate resolution of the dispute; where a court feels it cannot offer such a final determination, the matter is not justiciable.\n\nJusticiability is one of several criteria that the United States Supreme Court uses to make a judgment granting \"writ of certiorari\" (\"cert.\"). \n\nFor an issue to be justiciable by a United States federal court, all of the following conditions must be met: \n\n\nIf the case meets any one of these requirements, the court cannot hear it.\n\nState courts tend to require a similar set of circumstances, although some states permit their courts to give advisory opinions on questions of law, even though there may be no actual dispute between parties to resolve.\n\nThe issue of non-justiciability has been recognized in \"Buttes Gas\", where it was stated that this principle is not a matter of discretion, but is \"inherent in the nature of the judicial process\". The principle was further developed in \"Kuwait Airlines\" litigation.\n"}
{"id": "68759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68759", "title": "Kaldor–Hicks efficiency", "text": "Kaldor–Hicks efficiency\n\nA Kaldor–Hicks improvement, named for Nicholas Kaldor and John Hicks, is an economic re-allocation of resources among people that captures some of the intuitive appeal of a Pareto improvement, but has less stringent criteria and is hence applicable to more circumstances. A re-allocation is a Kaldor–Hicks improvement if those that are made better off could hypothetically compensate those that are made worse off and lead to a Pareto-improving outcome. The compensation does not actually have to occur (there is no presumption in favor of status-quo) and thus, a Kaldor–Hicks improvement can in fact leave some people worse off.\n\nA situation is said to be Kaldor–Hicks efficient, or equivalently is said to satisfy the Kaldor–Hicks criterion, if no potential Kaldor–Hicks improvement from that situation exists.\n\nA reallocation is said to be a Pareto improvement if at least one person is made better off and nobody is made worse off. However in practice, it is almost impossible to take any social action, such as a change in economic policy, without making at least one person worse off. Even voluntary exchanges may not be Pareto improving if they make third parties worse off.\n\nUsing the criterion for Kaldor–Hicks improvement, an outcome is an improvement if those that are made better off could in principle compensate those that are made worse off, so that a Pareto improving outcome \"could\" (though does not have to) be achieved. For example, a voluntary exchange that creates pollution would be a \"Kaldor–Hicks improvement\" if the buyers and sellers are still willing to carry out the transaction even if they have to fully compensate the victims of the pollution. Kaldor–Hicks does not require compensation actually be paid, merely that the possibility for compensation exists, and thus need not leave each at least as well off. Under Kaldor–Hicks efficiency, an improvement can in fact leave some people worse off. Pareto-improvements require making every party involved better off (or at least none worse off).\n\nWhile every Pareto improvement is a Kaldor–Hicks improvement, most Kaldor–Hicks improvements are not Pareto improvements. This is because the set of Pareto improvements is a proper subset of Kaldor–Hicks improvements. This reflects the greater flexibility and applicability of the Kaldor–Hicks criterion relative to the Pareto criterion.\n\nThe Kaldor–Hicks methods are typically used as tests of potential improvements rather than as efficiency goals themselves. They are used to determine whether an activity moves the economy toward Pareto efficiency. Any change usually makes some people better off and others worse off, so these tests consider what would happen if gainers were to compensate losers.\n\nThe Kaldor criterion is that an activity moves the economy closer to Pareto optimality if the maximum amount the gainers are prepared to pay to the losers to agree to the change is greater than the minimum amount losers are prepared to accept; the Hicks criterion is that an activity moves the economy toward Pareto optimality if the maximum amount the losers would pay the gainers to forgo the change is less than the minimum amount the gainers would accept to so agree. Thus, the Kaldor test supposes that losers could prevent the arrangement and asks whether gainers value their gain so much they would and could pay losers to accept the arrangement, whereas the Hicks test supposes that gainers are able to proceed with the change and asks whether losers consider their loss to be worth less than what it would cost them to pay gainers to agree \"not\" to proceed with the change. After several technical problems with each separate criterion were discovered, they were combined into the Scitovsky criterion, more commonly known as the \"Kaldor–Hicks criterion\", which does not share the same flaws.\n\nThe Kaldor–Hicks criterion is widely applied in welfare economics and managerial economics. For example, it forms an underlying rationale for cost–benefit analysis. In cost–benefit analysis, a project (for example, a new airport) is evaluated by comparing the total costs, such as building costs and environmental costs, with the total benefits, such as airline profits and convenience for travelers. (However, as cost–benefit analysis may also assign different social welfare weights to different individuals, e.g. more to the poor, the compensation criterion is not always invoked by cost–benefit analysis.)\n\nThe project would typically be given the go-ahead if the benefits exceed the costs. This is effectively an application of the Kaldor–Hicks criterion because it is equivalent to requiring that the benefits be enough that those that benefit could in theory compensate those that have lost out. The criterion is used because it is argued that it is justifiable for society as a whole to make some worse off if this means a greater gain for others.\n\nAt a more technical level, various versions of the Kaldor–Hicks criteria lack desirable formal properties. For instance, Tibor Scitovsky demonstrated that the Kaldor criterion alone is not antisymmetric: it's possible to have a situation where an outcome A is an improvement (according to the Kaldor criterion) over outcome B, but B is also an improvement over A. The combined Kaldor–Hicks criterion does not have this problem, but it can be non-transitive (though A may be an improvement over B, and B over C, A is not thereby an improvement over C).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50023831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50023831", "title": "Kaliningrad question", "text": "Kaliningrad question\n\nThe Kaliningrad question is a political question concerning the status of Kaliningrad Oblast as an exclave of Russia, and its isolation from the rest of the Baltic region following the 2004 enlargement of the European Union.\n\nIn Western media, the region is most often discussed in relation to the deployment of missile systems, initially as a response to the deployment of missile defense systems in Poland and the Czech Republic. Russia views the region as a vital element of its ability to project power in the Baltic region.\n\nA fringe position also considers the return of the province to Germany from the Russian Federation, or its independence from both. The former question is mostly hypothetical, as the current German government has stated that it has no claim to it.\n\nKaliningrad, or Königsberg, had been a part of a German state (the Teutonic Order, Kingdom of Prussia, and the unified Germany) for several centuries before the Second World War, and the city was historically a rich German cultural center, being the home of – among others – the German philosopher Immanuel Kant. \n\nThe annexation of the Königsberg area of East Prussia to Russia became a stated war aim of the Soviet Union at Tehran Conference in December 1943. In 1945, at the end of World War II, the city was captured by the Soviet Union. As agreed by the Allies at the Potsdam Conference, northern Prussia, including Königsberg, was annexed by the USSR, which attached it to the Russian SFSR. In 1946, the city's name was changed to Kaliningrad.\n\nIn October 1945, only about 5,000 Soviet civilians lived in the territory. Between October 1947 and October 1948, about 100,000 Germans were forcibly moved to Germany. About 400,000 Soviet civilians arrived by 1948. Some moved voluntarily, but as the number of willing settlers proved insufficient, collective farms were given quotas of how many people they had to send to Kaliningrad. Often they sent the least socially desirable individuals, such as alcoholics and the uneducated.\n\nIn the 1950s, Nikita Khrushchev suggested that the Lithuanian SSR should annex Kaliningrad Oblast. The offer was refused by the Lithuanian Communist Party leader Antanas Sniečkus, who did not wish to alter the ethnic composition of his republic. In the late Soviet era, rumors spread that the Oblast might be converted into a homeland for Soviet Germans.\n\nKaliningrad Oblast remained part of the Soviet Union until its dissolution in 1991, and since then has been an exclave of the Russian Federation. After the Soviet collapse, some descendants of the expellees and refugees traveled to the city to examine their roots. According to the 2010 Russian Census, 7,349 ethnic Germans live in the Oblast, making up 0.8% of the population.\n\nIn Germany, the status of Kaliningrad and the rights of expellees was a mainstream political issue until the 1960s, when the shifting political discourse increasingly associated similar views with right-wing revisionism.\n\nAccording to a \"Der Spiegel\" article published in 2010, in 1990 the West German government received a message from the Soviet general Geli Batenin, offering to return Kaliningrad. The offer was never seriously considered by the Bonn government, who saw reunification with the East as its priority.\n\nIn 2001, the EU was alleged to be in talks with Russia to arrange an association agreement with the Kaliningrad Oblast, at a time when Russia could not repay £22 billion debt owed to Berlin, which may have given Germany some influence over the territory. Claims of \"buying back\" Kaliningrad or other \"secret deals\" were repudiated by both sides.\n\nAnother rumor about a debt-related deal, published by the Russian weekly \"Nash Continent\", alleged that Putin and Edmund Stoiber had agreed on the gradual return of Kaliningrad in return for waiving the country's $50 billion debt to Germany.\n\nInesis Feldmanis, head of the Faculty of History and Philosophy at the University of Latvia, has been quoted saying that the Soviet Union's annexation of Kaliningrad is \"an error in history\".\n\nThe Freistaat Preußen Movement, one of the most active offshoots of the Reichsbürger movement, considers the Russian (and German) government as illegitimate and see themselves as the rightful rulers of the region. As of 2017, the movement is split into two competing factions, one based in Königsfeld, Rhineland-Palatinate and the other in Bonn.\n\nSome political groups in Lithuania claim the parts of Kaliningrad Oblast between the Pregel and Nemunas Rivers, but they have little influence. Linas Balsys, a deputy in the Lithuanian parliament, has argued that the status of the exclave should be discussed at international levels.\n\nIn 1994, the former Lithuanian president Vytautas Landsbergis called for the separation and 'decolonization' of Kaliningrad from Russia. In December 1997, the Lithuanian parliament speaker Romualdas Ozolas expressed his view that Kaliningrad should become an independent republic.\n\nAfter the annexation of Crimea in 2014, the political analyst Laurynas Kasčiūnas called for a revisiting of the Potsdam Agreement. He argued that residents of Kaliningrad would support a referendum to separate from Russia. The notion of a Lithuanian claim has been brushed off by Russian media, with the liberal \"Novaya Gazeta\" newspaper dismissing it as a 'geopolitical fantasy'.\n\nIn the 1990s, a far-right group calling itself \"Gesellschaft für Siedlungsförderung in Trakehnen\" attempted to establish a settlement in Yasnaya Polyana. Fundraising by the organization \"Aktion Deutsches Königsberg\" financed the construction of a German-language school and housing in the neighboring village of Amtshagen. Most of the settlers were Russian Germans from the Caucasus and Kazakhstan, rather than returnees.\n\nSeveral dilapidated houses were bought and renovated; tractors, trucks, building materials and machinery were imported into the village. The relatively high salaries attracted newcomers, and the ethnic German population rose to about 400 inhabitants. The construction of a second settlement in the outskirts of Trakehnen, named \"Agnes-Miegel-Siedlung\", began in 1998.\n\nRelations with the local Russian administration were initially cordial, but the activities of the group were suppressed by the Russian government after being publicized by German media. Dietmar Munier, the initiator of the project, was banned from traveling to Kaliningrad Oblast. In 2006, he sold his stake in the association to one Alexander Mantai, who turned it into a for-profit concern and evicted the original settlers. The association was liquidated in 2015 for violating the Russian law on NGOs.\n\nIn the 1990s, a group affiliated to Manfred Roeder collected donations to build housing for ethnic Germans in the village of Olchowatka, east of Kaliningrad.\n\nThe German government has indicated no interest in recovering Kaliningrad Oblast. The governments of Poland and Lithuania similarly recognize Kaliningrad as part of Russia, as does the European Union. It formally waived all territorial claims to the former East Prussia as part of the Two Plus Four Agreement that led to German reunification. In July 2005, the German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder declared that \"in its heart [the city] will always be called Koenigsberg\", but stated that Germany did not have any territorial claim to it. According to Ulrich Speck, the prospect of returning Kaliningrad to Germany lacks support in Germany, even among fringe nationalist groups. In 2004, the German politician Jürgen Klimke asked the German federal government about its view on the establishment of a Lithuanian-Russian-Polish euroregion, to be named 'Prussia'. The initiator denied any revanchist connotations to the proposal.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia's claim to Kaliningrad was not contested by any government, though some groups in Lithuania and Poland called for the annexation of the province, or parts of it.\n\nPoland has made no claim to Kaliningrad, and is seen as being unlikely to do so, as it was a net beneficiary of the Potsdam Agreement, which also decided the status of Kaliningrad.\n\n"}
{"id": "221757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221757", "title": "Kangaroo court", "text": "Kangaroo court\n\nA kangaroo court is a court that ignores recognized standards of law or justice, and often carries little or no official standing in the territory within which it resides. The term may also apply to a court held by a legitimate judicial authority who intentionally disregards the court's legal or ethical obligations. The defendants in such courts are often denied access to legal representation and in some cases, proper defence.\n\nPrejudicial bias of the decision-maker or from political decree are among the most publicized causes of kangaroo courts. Such proceedings are often held to give the appearance of a fair and just trial, even though the verdict was already decided before the trial actually began.\n\nA kangaroo court could also develop when the structure and operation of the forum result in an inferior brand of adjudication. A common example of this is when institutional disputants (\"repeat players\") have excessive and unfair structural advantages over individual disputants (\"one-shot players\").\n\nThe term \"kangaroo court\" is often erroneously believed to have its origin from the courts of Australia's penal colonies. However, the first published instance of the term is from an American source in the year 1853. Some sources suggest that it may have been popularized during the California Gold Rush of 1849, along with \"mustang court\", as a description of the hastily carried-out proceedings used to deal with the issue of claim jumping miners. Ostensibly the term comes from the notion of justice proceeding \"by leaps\", like a kangaroo – in other words, \"jumping over\" (intentionally ignoring) evidence that would be in favour of the defendant. Another possibility is that the phrase could refer to the pouch of a kangaroo, meaning the court is in someone's pocket. The phrase is popular in the UK, US, Australia and New Zealand and is still in common use.\n\nThe term is sometimes used without any negative connotation. For example, many Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball teams have a kangaroo court to punish players for errors and other mistakes on the field, as well as for being late for a game or practice, not wearing proper attire to road games, or having a messy locker in the clubhouse. Fines are allotted, and at the end of the year, the money collected is given to charity. The organization may also use the money for a team party at the end of the season.\n\nSome examples of adjudication venues described as kangaroo courts are the People's Court (Volksgerichtshof) of Nazi Germany that convicted people who were suspected of being involved with the failed plot to assassinate Hitler on July 20, 1944.\n\nAnother example is the trial of Pol Pot and his brother Ieng San by the People's Revolutionary Tribunal in Cambodia in August 1979. After a lengthy trial with a duration of five days, both were sentenced to death \"in absentia\" on August 19, 1979. Conclusive evidence showed that the verdicts and the sentencing papers had been prepared in advance of the trial. Relying on this evidence the United Nations proceeded to delegitimize the tribunal stating that it did not comply with standards of international law.\n\nDuring the Romanian Revolution in 1989, President and Communist Party General Secretary Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife Elena were sentenced to death by a kangaroo court of soldiers from the Romanian People's Army, which recently switched to the side of the revolutionaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "5292891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5292891", "title": "Kazasker", "text": "Kazasker\n\nA kazasker or kadıasker (, \"ḳāḍī'asker\", \"military judge\") was a chief judge in the Ottoman Empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who were later tried only by their own officers. Two kazaskers were appointed, called \"Rumeli Kazaskeri\" and \"Anadolu Kazaskeri\", having their jurisdiction respectively over the European and the Asiatic part of the Empire. They were subordinated to the Grand Vizier, later Şeyhülislam, and had no jurisdiction over the city of Constantinople. Moreover, they attended the meetings at the Imperial Council.\n\nA Kazasker handled appeals to the decisions of kadı's, had the power to overrule these, and suggested kadı candidates to the Grand Vizier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44852496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852496", "title": "Klamath Termination Act", "text": "Klamath Termination Act\n\nThe Klamath Termination Act was a 1953 law under the US Indian termination policy. The Klamath tribe along with the Flathead, Menominee, Potawatomi, and Turtle Mountain Chippewa, as well as all tribes in the states of California, New York, Florida, and Texas were targeted for immediate termination by House Concurrent Resolution 108 of 1953. The statement which was issued 1 August 1953 by the United States Congress announced the official beginning of the federal Indian termination policy. The tribes that were listed as being ready for immediate termination had been placed on a list prepared by acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs, William Zimmerman, because they met four primary criteria: adequate resources, they had adopted to a certain degree the cultural traits of the larger American culture, they were willing to terminate federal trust obligations, and the state was willing to assume jurisdiction over their criminal and civil matters.\n\nIn the 1950s, the Klamath tribe in Oregon was one of the strongest and wealthiest tribes in the nation. They had created a vigorous economy based on timber resources and imported livestock, which nearly fully supported the entire tribe. The Klamath tribe was not a burden to the Oregon taxpayers, and was the only tribe in the country paying its share of BIA administrative costs. However, despite appearances, 82% of the tribe members living \"on\" the reservation had no jobs and most still engaged in hunting and fishing for subsistence. As for acculturation, although Klamath students were enrolled in public high schools, only 10 graduated between 1934 and 1947 and in the mid-1950s more than half of the Klamath students enrolled did not pass to the next grade. Though the Klamath who lived \"off\" the reservation were more prepared for living in the mainstream society, the occupants of the reservation had no concept of rent, utility payments, taxes, banking or even how they would meet their dietary needs.\n\nIn spite of testimony and evidence given, the Klamath tribe was terminated under the \"Klamath Termination Act\", or Public Law 587, enacted on August 13, 1954. Under this act, all federal supervision over Klamath lands, as well as federal aid provided to the Klamath because of their special status as Indians, was ended.\nThe legislation required each tribal member to choose between remaining a member of the tribe, or withdrawing and receiving a monetary payment for the value of the individual share of tribal land.\nThose who stayed became members of a tribal management plan. This plan became a trust relationship between tribal members and the United States National Bank in Portland, Oregon.\nOf the 2,133 members of the Klamath tribe at the time of termination, 1,660 decided to withdraw from the tribe and accept individual payments for land.\n\nOregon Senator Richard L. Neuberger, (Democrat) and Oregon Representative Albert Ullman, (Democrat) worked together to delay implementation of the Klamath termination law until hearings with the Indians were held and amendments could be made. In spite of testimony from experts, BIA officials and tribe members, the Klamath were terminated in 1961 as a result of constant pressure by Senator Arthur V. Watkins.\n\nThe termination of the Klamath Reservation, in actuality included three distinct but affiliated tribes. The Act defines the members as the \"Klamath and Modoc Tribes and the Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, and of the individual members thereof\". A portion of the Modoc Tribe, had been taken as prisoners to Indian Territory in 1873 following the Modoc War in Oregon. Later, they were placed on a reservation in Indian Territory and their lands were allotted as were other tribes to make way for statehood for Oklahoma. In 1909, the US Congress passed an Act allowing those Modocs to return to their traditional home in Oregon and take up residence on the Klamath Reservation. Some returned, and some remained in Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri, where they had now established homes and ties. In 1965, as a part of the US settlement with the Klamath reservation, a series of hearings were held from April to August. At the hearings, testimony was heard regarding the notice given to the western Modoc at the time of the termination of the Klamath Reservation. William Randall, Representative from Missouri's 5th District, observed on 13 May 1965 that he had reviewed notices that appeared in the \"Federal Register\" between 14 January 1955 and 12 August 1961 regarding the Klamath termination and none mentioned the Modoc. His and other testimony presented at the hearing made it clear that many western Modoc had not registered for the final roll, were unaware that the Klamath termination applied to them, and felt that they should not be excluded from claim reparations due by the United States to the tribe as a whole for historic breaches. The hearings concluded without allowing the Oklahoma Modoc to be included in the rolls of the Klamath Tribe.\n\nTermination led to lawsuits, as individual Klamath Indians struggled to preserve treaty hunting and fishing rights. Five Klamath Indians who had withdrawn from the tribe after Public Law 587 claimed they retained hunting and fishing rights guaranteed to the Klamath tribe in the Treaty of October 16, 1854. After a U.S. district court ruled against them, they filed an appeal under \"Kimball v. Callahan\".\n\nBased on reasoning similar to that in \"Menominee Tribe v. United States\", the U.S. District Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit found that, since the Klamath Termination Act did not specifically abrogate Klamath hunting and fishing rights, these rights remained. The court looked at the stipulation in Public Law 280, providing that no state could deprive an Indian tribe (or individual members) of hunting and fishing rights guaranteed to them by federal treaty.\n\nWithin the tribe, termination had been supported only by a few who were loyal to Sen. Watkins. After being terminated, the tribe was cut off from services for education, health care, housing and related resources. Termination directly caused decay within the tribe including poverty, alcoholism, high suicide rates, low educational achievement, disintegration of the family, poor housing, high dropout rates from school, disproportionate numbers in penal institutions, increased infant mortality, decreased life expectancy, and loss of identity.\n\nIronically, the western Modoc were restored to tribal status 15 May 1978, in an Act which reinstated the Modoc, Wyandotte, Peoria and Ottawa Tribes of Oklahoma. Almost a decade later, through the leadership and vision of the Klamath people, and the assistance of a few congressional leaders, the Klamath Restoration Act was adopted into law in 1986, reestablishing the Klamath as a sovereign state.\n\n"}
{"id": "57427608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57427608", "title": "List of first women lawyers and judges in Africa", "text": "List of first women lawyers and judges in Africa\n\nThis is a list of the first women lawyer(s) and judge(s) in Africa. It includes the year in which the women were admitted to practice law (in parentheses). Also included are the first women in their country to achieve a certain distinction such as obtaining a law degree or becoming a political figure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nKEY\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9755108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9755108", "title": "Livestock dehorning", "text": "Livestock dehorning\n\nDehorning is the process of removing the fully grown horns of livestock. Cattle, sheep, and goats are sometimes dehorned for economic and safety reasons. Disbudding is a different process with similar results; it cauterizes and thus destroys horn buds before they have grown into horns. Disbudding is commonly performed early in an animal's life, as are other procedures such as docking and castration.\n\nMany breeds of cattle and sheep are naturally hornless. The polled gene can occur naturally in particular breeds or easily manipulated during breeding to lack horns, therefore do not need to be dehorned or disbud. Although polling is common among cattle and sheep, a variety of livestock species cannot easily be bred to lack horns naturally. In one case, the poll gene in goats was linked to hermaphrodism in a single study several decades ago, although fertile polled goats have been bred.\n\nHorns are removed because they can pose a risk to humans, other animals and to the bearers of the horns themselves (horns are sometimes caught in fences or prevent feeding). Dehorning is normally performed with local anesthesia and sedation by a veterinarian or a trained professional. Removal of larger horns is usually performed during spring and autumn to avoid fly season. In very large horns, \"tipping\" (removal of the tip of the horn) may be recommended to minimize bleeding. Dehorning is not routinely performed, since it is a difficult and painful process for the animal. Instead, most responsible breeders disbud (see below) their animals while young, when the process is quick and easy. Dehorning is controversial because of the pain it causes. \n\n\n\nDehorning can be performed on older animals and is normally performed with local anesthesia (cornual nerve block) by a veterinarian or a trained professional. Removal of larger horns is usually performed during spring and autumn to avoid fly season. Sedation may be recommended, especially for larger animals that require increased restraint. Use of longer-term pain medicine, like NSAIDs, is being researched in the US to ensure food safety.\n\nFor mature cattle that were not dehorned when they were young, another common practice to just cut off the pointed end of the horn. This practice is called horn tipping; it is less stressful on the animal because there is no blood loss and the horn is cut off where there are no longer any nerve endings. This practice does not eliminate the bruising damage done by the horns when cows fight, but it does eliminate the risk of puncture wounds and eye loss from pointed horns.\n\nDisbudding minimizes discomfort and risk, and is performed when horns are small \"buds\" by one of several methods:\n\nThe animal to be dehorned is usually restrained, either using a dehorning table or with chemical restraint —sedation. This ensures that the dehorning procedure can be done safely and properly. Young calves are run through a head gate (similar to a cattle crush) or haltered. Calves more than a few months old are held in a head gate and their head restrained with a dehorning table or chin bar. Smaller animals like sheep and goats may be restrained by hand or with use of halters.\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) National Animal Health Monitoring System (NAHMS) survey suggested that most cattle in the U.S. were disbudded or dehorned without the use of anesthesia at that time. The survey showed that more than nine out of ten dairy farms practiced dehorning, but fewer than 20 percent of cattle dairy operations used analgesics or anesthesia during the process. While animal rights groups, like the Humane Society of the United States, condemn the practice of dehorning, ending it would mean increased horn-related injuries to cattle and humans. Polled genetics, long a staple in beef cattle breeding are becoming more popular among dairy farmers, with more polled calves being born to dairy cattle every year. Genetic testing can now determine if cattle carry genes for growing horns.\n\nIn 2018 a referendum was held in Switzerland on providing additional subsidies to farmers that did not dehorn their livestock (between 75–90% of livestock in Switzerland had their horns removed). The referendum was a result of farmer Armin Capaul collecting over 100,000 signatures for a vote on the issue. However, the proposal was opposed by the government and rejected by voters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364024", "title": "Master of Public Administration", "text": "Master of Public Administration\n\nThe Master of Public Administration (M.P.Adm., M.P.A., or MPA) is a professional graduate degree in public administration, similar to the Master of Business Administration but with an emphasis on the issues of governance.\n\nThe MPA program is a professional degree and a graduate degree for the public sector and it prepares individuals to serve as managers, executives and policy analysts in the executive arm of local, state/provincial, and federal/national government, and increasingly in non-governmental organization (NGO) and nonprofit sectors; it places a focus on the systematic investigation of executive organization and management. Instruction includes the roles, development, and principles of public administration; public policy management and implementation.\n\nThrough its history, the MPA degree has become more interdisciplinary by drawing from fields such as economics, sociology, law, anthropology, political science, and regional planning in order to equip MPA graduates with skills and knowledge covering a broad range of topics and disciplines relevant to the public sector. A core curriculum of a typical MPA program usually includes courses on microeconomics, public finance, research methods, statistics, policy analysis, managerial accounting, ethics, public management, geographic information systems (GIS), and program evaluation. MPA students may focus their studies on public sector fields such as urban planning, emergency management, transportation, health care (especially public health), economic development, community development, non-profit management, environmental policy, cultural policy, and criminal justice.\n\nMPA graduates currently serve in some important positions within the public sector including Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong, former UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, former CIA Director David Petraeus, former president of Liberia Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, former president of Mexico Felipe Calderón, Foreign Minister of Serbia Vuk Jeremić, Chairman of the World Toilet Organization Jack Sim, former New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly, former Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, former Treasurer of Australia Wayne Swan. Other notable MPA graduates include Bill O'Reilly and pilot Chesley Sullenberger.\n\nA Master of Public Administration can be acquired at various institutions. See \"List of schools offering MPA degrees.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3701845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3701845", "title": "Motor Car Act 1903", "text": "Motor Car Act 1903\n\nThe Motor Car Act 1903 (3 Edw.7, c. 36) was an Act of the United Kingdom Parliament that received royal assent on 14 August 1903, which introduced motor vehicle registration, driver licensing and increased the speed limit.\n\nThe Act followed the Locomotives on Highways Act 1896 which had increased the speed limit for motorcars to 14 mph from the previous 4 mph in rural area and 2 mph in towns. \n\nThere were some who wished to see the speed limit removed altogether. The influential Automobile Club (soon to become the Royal Automobile Club or RAC) was split on the subject; the chair of the working group on the Bill was Lord Montagu (MP) who took a moderate line supporting speed limits, but was opposed on this by the chairman of the organisation Roger Wallace who were 'strongly against any speed limit' and described Montagu as a 'traitor'. The secretary of the club publicly proposed a 'compromise' of 25 mph without authorisation. Parliamentary debates were described as 'bitter'.\n\n\nThe Act was intended to last for only three years but was extended by the Expiring Laws Continuance Act 1900 until a new bill was seriously discussed in 1929 and enacted. Both the \"Locomotives on Highways Act 1896\" and the \"Motor Car Act 1903\" were repealed by the \"Road Traffic Act 1930\". \n\nA Royal Commission on Motorcars was established in 1905 which reported in 1907 and recommended that motorcars should be taxed, that the speed limit should be abolished (by a majority vote only) and raised concern about the manner in which speed traps were being used to raise revenue in rural areas rather than being used to protect lives in towns. Amendments were discussed in 1905, 1911, 1913 1914 under the titles \"Motor Car Act (1903) Amendment bill\" and \"Motor Car Act (1903) Amendment (No 2) bill\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148301", "title": "Otto von Habsburg", "text": "Otto von Habsburg\n\nOtto von Habsburg (20 November 1912 4 July 2011), also known by his traditional royal title of Archduke Otto of Austria, was the last Crown Prince of Austria-Hungary from 1916 until the dissolution of the empire in 1919, a realm which comprised modern-day Austria, Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, and parts of Italy, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. He became the pretender to the former thrones, Head of the House of Habsburg-Lorraine, and Sovereign of the Order of the Golden Fleece in 1922, upon the death of his father. He resigned as Sovereign of the Golden Fleece in 2000 and as head of the Imperial House in 2007.\n\nThe eldest son of Charles I and IV, the last Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary, and his wife, Zita of Bourbon-Parma, Otto was born as third in line to the thrones, as Archduke Otto of Austria, Royal Prince of Hungary, Bohemia, and Croatia. With his father's accession to the thrones in 1916, he was likely to become emperor and king. As his father never abdicated, Otto was considered by himself, his family and Austro-Hungarian legitimists to be the rightful emperor-king from 1922.\n\nOtto was active on the Austrian and European political stage from the 1930s, both by promoting the cause of Habsburg restoration and as an early proponent of European integration—being thoroughly disgusted with nationalism—and a fierce opponent of Nazism and communism. He has been described as one of the leaders of the Austrian Resistance. After the 1938 \"Anschluss\", where monarchists were severely persecuted in Austria and sentenced to death by the Nazis, Otto fled Europe to the United States.\n\nOtto von Habsburg was Vice President (1957–1973) and President (1973–2004) of the International Paneuropean Union, and served as a Member of the European Parliament for the Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU) from 1979 to 1999. As a newly elected Member of the European Parliament in 1979, Otto had an empty chair set up for the countries on the other side of the Iron Curtain in the European Parliament, and took a strong interest in the countries behind the Iron Curtain. Otto von Habsburg played a notable role in the revolutions of 1989, as a co-initiator of the Pan-European Picnic. Later he was a strong supporter of the EU membership of central and eastern European countries. A noted intellectual, he published several books on historical and political affairs. Otto has been described as one of the \"architects of the European idea and of European integration\" together with Robert Schuman, Konrad Adenauer, and Alcide De Gasperi.\n\nOtto was exiled in 1918 and grew up mostly in Spain. His devout Catholic mother raised him according to the old curriculum of Austria-Hungary, preparing him to become a Catholic monarch. During his life in exile, he lived in Switzerland, Madeira, Spain, Belgium, France, the United States, and from 1954 until his death, finally in Bavaria (Germany), in the residence \"Villa Austria\". At the time of his death, he was a citizen of Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Croatia, having earlier been stateless \"de jure\" and \"de facto\", and possessed passports of Monaco, the Order of Malta, and Spain. In 1961, he was offered the crown of Spain by Francisco Franco. He refused, and Juan Carlos of the House of Bourbon was made Franco's successor instead.\n\nHis funeral took place at St. Stephen's Cathedral in Vienna on 16 July 2011; he was entombed in the Imperial Crypt in Vienna and his heart buried in Pannonhalma Archabbey in Hungary.\n\nOtto was born at Villa Wartholz in Reichenau an der Rax, Austria-Hungary. He was baptised \"Franz Joseph Otto Robert Maria Anton Karl Max Heinrich Sixtus Xavier Felix Renatus Ludwig Gaetan Pius Ignatius\" on 25 November 1912 at Villa Wartholz by the Prince-Archbishop of Vienna, Cardinal Franz Xaver Nagl. This name was named to promote as Franz Joseph II in the future. His godfather was the Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria (represented by Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria); his godmother was his grandmother Infanta Maria Antonia of Portugal.\n\nIn November 1916, Otto became Crown Prince of Austria, Hungary, Bohemia and Croatia when his father, Archduke Charles, acceded to the throne. However, in 1918, at the end of the First World War, the monarchies were abolished, the republics of Austria and Hungary were founded in their place, and the family was forced into exile in Madeira. Hungary did become a kingdom again, but Charles was never to regain the throne. Instead, Miklós Horthy ruled as regent until 1944, in a kingdom without a king.\n\nOtto spoke German, Hungarian, Croatian, English, Spanish, French and Latin fluently. In later life, he would write some forty books in German, Hungarian, French and Spanish. His mother made him learn many languages because she believed he one day might rule over many lands.\n\nOtto's family spent the subsequent years in Switzerland, and on the Portuguese island of Madeira, where Charles died prematurely in 1922, leaving the nine-year-old Otto pretender to the throne. On his father's deathbed, his mother, Empress Dowager Zita, told Otto, \"your father is now sleeping the eternal sleep—you are now Emperor and King\". The family eventually relocated to the Basque town of Lekeitio, where forty Spanish grandees bought them a villa.\n\nMeanwhile, the Austrian parliament had officially expelled the Habsburg dynasty and confiscated all the official property via the Habsburg Law of 3 April 1919. Charles was banned from ever returning to Austria again, while Otto and other male members could only return if they renounced all claims to the throne and accepted the status of private citizens.\n\nIn 1935, he graduated with a PhD degree in Political and Social Sciences from the University of Louvain in Belgium. His thesis was on \"the right, born of usage and of the peasant law of inheritance, of the indivisibility of rural land ownership in Austria\". In 1937 he wrote,\n\nHe continued to enjoy considerable public support in Austria; from 1931 to 1938, 1,603 Austrian municipalities named Otto an honorary citizen. John Gunther believed that Zita was less popular among Austrians, however, writing in 1936 that \"restoration would be a good deal closer if Otto's return would not mean also the return of his mother—to say nothing of hundreds of assorted and impoverished Habsburg cousins and aunts, who would flock to Vienna like ants to a keg of syrup\". A greater obstacle, he wrote, was the opposition of Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia, which feared that their people might want to rejoin a recreated monarchy.\n\nOtto denounced Nazism, stating:\n\nHe strongly opposed the \"Anschluss\", and in 1938 requested Austrian Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg to resist Nazi Germany. He supported international intervention and offered to return from exile to take over the reins of government to repel the Nazis. According to Gerald Warner, \"Austrian Jews were among the strongest supporters of a Habsburg restoration, since they believed the dynasty would give the nation sufficient resolve to stand up to the Third Reich\".\n\nFollowing the German annexation of Austria, Otto was sentenced to death by the Nazi regime; Rudolf Hess ordered that Otto was to be executed immediately if caught. As ordered by Adolf Hitler, his personal property and that of the House of Habsburg were confiscated. It was not returned after the war. The so-called \"Habsburg Law\", which had previously been repealed, was reintroduced by the Nazis. The leaders of the Austrian legitimist movement, i.e. supporters of Otto, were arrested by the Nazis and largely executed (Stefan Zweig's novella \"The Royal Game\" is based on these events). Otto's cousins Max, Duke of Hohenberg, and Prince Ernst of Hohenberg were arrested in Vienna by the Gestapo and sent to Dachau concentration camp where they remained throughout Nazi rule. Otto was involved in helping around 15,000 Austrians, including thousands of Austrian Jews, flee the country at the beginning of the Second World War.\n\nAfter the German invasion of France in 1940, the family left the French capital and fled to Portugal with a visa issued by Aristides de Sousa Mendes, the Portuguese consul in Bordeaux. For his own safety, Otto left the European continent for the United States and lived from 1940 to 1944 in Washington, D.C. In 1941, Hitler personally revoked the citizenship of Otto, his mother and his siblings, and the imperial-royal family found themselves stateless.\n\nDuring his wartime exile in the United States, Otto and his younger brothers were in direct contact with President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the federal government. His efforts to create an \"Austrian Battalion\" in the United States Army were delayed and never implemented. However, he successfully convinced the U.S. to halt or limit the bombardment of Austrian cities, especially the capital, Vienna, which were consequently delayed by high-ranking commanding personnel; bombardments on Vienna began later in the war (1943). Otto tried hard to set symbolic steps for the will of Austria and Austrians to be free, independent and democratic; he expressed concern that after the war, Austria was in danger of becoming a Soviet satellite state. Otto was commonly known in the U.S. as \"Otto of Austria\", trying to keep Austria and its neighbors in the minds of the American people via starting a series of stamps (the Overrun Countries series) containing the German-occupied nations of Europe.\n\nHe obtained the support of Winston Churchill for a conservative \"Danube Federation\", in effect a restoration of Austria-Hungary, but Joseph Stalin put an end to these plans. He lobbied for the recognition of an Austrian government-in-exile, for the rights of the German-speaking population of South Tyrol, against the deportation of the German-speaking inhabitants of Bohemia and eastern Europe, and against letting Stalin rule Eastern Europe.\n\nAt the end of the war, Otto returned to Europe and lived for some years in France and Spain.\n\nIn 1949, he ennobled several people, granting them Austrian noble titles, although not recognized by the Austrian republic. As he did not possess a passport and was effectively stateless, he was given a passport of the Principality of Monaco, thanks to the intervention of Charles de Gaulle in 1946. As a Knight of Malta, the order also issued him a diplomatic passport. Later, he was also issued with a Spanish diplomatic passport.\n\nOn 8 May 1956, Otto was recognized as an Austrian citizen by the provincial government of Lower Austria. The Austrian Interior Ministry approved this declaration of Citizenship, but on the condition that he accept the name Dr. Otto Habsburg-Lothringen, on 8 February 1957. However, this only entitled him to a passport \"valid in every country but Austria\". Otto had already submitted a written statement, on 21 February 1958, that he and his family would renounce all privileges to which a member of the House of Habsburg was formerly entitled, but this first declaration did not satisfy the requirements of the Habsburg Law, which stated that Otto and other descendants of Charles could only return to Austria if they renounced all royal claims and accepted the status of private citizens. In 1961, Spanish caudillo Francisco Franco offered to make him king of Spain after his own death, which Otto declined. He officially declared his loyalty to the Republic of Austria on 5 June 1961, but this statement was ruled insufficient as well.\n\nIn a declaration dated 31 May 1961, Otto renounced all claims to the Austrian throne and proclaimed himself \"a loyal citizen of the republic\", \"for purely practical reasons\". In a 2007 interview on the occasion of his approaching 95th birthday, Otto stated:\n\nThe Austrian administrative court found on 24 May 1963 that Otto's statement was sufficient to meet this requirement. His wife and he were then issued a Certified Proof of Citizenship on 20 July 1965. However, several elements in the country, particularly the Socialists, were ill-disposed to welcoming back the heir of the deposed dynasty. This touched off political infighting and civil unrest that almost precipitated a crisis of state, and later became known as the \"Habsburg Crisis\". It was only on 1 June 1966, after the People's Party won an outright majority in the national election, that Otto was issued an Austrian passport, and was finally able to visit his home country again on 31 October 1966 for the first time in 48 years. That day, he traveled to Innsbruck to visit the grave of Archduke Eugen of Austria. Later, he visited Vienna on 5 July 1967.\n\nAn early advocate of a unified Europe, Otto was president of the International Paneuropean Union from 1973 to 2004. He served from 1979 until 1999 as a Member of the European Parliament for the conservative Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU) party, eventually becoming the senior member of the European Parliament. He was also a member of the Mont Pelerin Society. He was a major supporter of the expansion of the European Union from the beginning and especially of the acceptance of Hungary, Slovenia and Croatia. During his time in the European Parliament, he was involved in a fracas with fellow MEP Ian Paisley, a unionist Protestant pastor from Northern Ireland. In 1988, Pope John Paul II had just begun a speech to the Parliament when Paisley, a vehement anti-Catholic, shouted that the Pope was the Antichrist, and held up a poster reading \"Pope John Paul II Antichrist\". Otto snatched Paisley's banner and, along with other MEPs, ejected him from the chamber.\n\nHe was one of the men instrumental in organising the so-called Pan-European Picnic at the Hungary-Austria border on 19 August 1989. This event is considered a milestone in the collapse of Communist dictatorships in Europe.\nIn December 2006, he observed that, \"The catastrophe of 11 September 2001 struck the United States more profoundly than any of us, whence a certain mutual incomprehension. Until then, the United States felt itself secure, persuaded of its power to bombard any enemy, without anyone being able to strike back. That sentiment vanished in an instant. Americans understand viscerally for the first time the risks they face.\" He was known as a supporter of the rights of refugees and displaced people in Europe, notably of the ethnic Germans displaced from Bohemia where he was once the Crown Prince. He was a jury member of the Franz Werfel Human Rights Award. He also held Francisco Franco in a high regard and praised him for helping refugees, stating that he was \"a dictator of the South American type, not totalitarian like Hitler or Stalin\".\n\nIn 2002, he was named the first-ever honorary member of the European People's Party group.\n\nOn the 2008 anniversary of the Anschluss, Otto von Habsburg made a statement as part of his \"1938 Remembrance Day\" address before Parliament that \"there is no country in Europe that has a better claim to be a victim of the Nazis than Austria\". Although his speech received an ovation, this received public protest, media criticism and disapproval voiced by Austrian politicians. Social Democratic Party Defence Minister Norbert Darabos was quoted as saying that the remarks were \"unacceptable\", \"a veritable democratic-political scandal\" and that he had \"insulted the victims of National Socialism\". Otto von Habsburg was also quoted as saying that \"a discussion as to whether Austria was an accomplice or a victim is an outrage\".\nAustrian People's Party military spokesman Walter Murauer defended Otto's statement at the time. Murauer claimed that there was \"another reality behind the mass of people who listened to Hitler on the Heldenplatz\", meaning the \"thousands in the resistance and thousands in prison waiting to be transported to Dachau\" near Munich. Murauer also recalled that Engelbert Dollfuß had been the only head of government in Europe to have been murdered by the Nazis. Murauer advised Darabos \"to avoid populist pot-shots against an honourable European of the highest calibre\". Otto's son, Karl von Habsburg, also defended his father's words, in a 2011 statement, stating that \"there were guilty parties in practically every country\".\n\nAfter the death of his wife, Regina, aged 85, in Pöcking on 3 February 2010, Otto stopped appearing in public. He died at the age of 98 on Monday, 4 July 2011, at his home in Pöcking, Germany. His spokeswoman reported that he died \"peacefully and without pain in his sleep\". On 5 July, his body was laid in repose in the Church of St. Ulrich near his home in Pöcking, Bavaria, and a massive 13-day period of mourning started in several countries formerly part of Austria-Hungary. Otto's coffin was draped with the Habsburg flag decorated with the imperial–royal coats of arms of Austria and Hungary in addition to the Habsburg family coat of arms. In line with the Habsburg family tradition, Otto von Habsburg was buried in the family's crypt in Vienna, while his heart was buried in a monastery in Pannonhalma, Hungary.\n\nHe married Princess Regina of Saxe-Meiningen on 10 May 1951 at the Church of Saint-François-des-Cordeliers in Nancy, capital city of Lorraine. The wedding was attended by his mother Empress Zita. He returned there with his wife for their golden jubilee in 2001. Otto lived in retirement at the \"Villa Austria\" in Pöcking near Starnberg, upon Starnberger See, Upper Bavaria, Bavaria, Germany.\n\nAt the time of his death in 2011, the couple had had seven children, 22 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren:\n\n\n\n\nHe became a citizen of the Republic of Croatia in 1990, with the official name:\n\nOtto von Habsburg became a citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1978, and was allowed the official name:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407940", "title": "Political machine", "text": "Political machine\n\nA political machine is a political group in which an authoritative boss or small group commands the support of a corps of supporters and businesses (usually campaign workers), who receive rewards for their efforts. The machine's power is based on the ability of the nuggets to get out the vote for their candidates on election day.\n\nAlthough these elements are common to most political parties and organizations, they are essential to political machines, which rely on hierarchy and rewards for political power, often enforced by a strong party whip structure. Machines sometimes have a political boss, often rely on patronage, the spoils system, \"behind-the-scenes\" control, and longstanding political ties within the structure of a representative democracy. Machines typically are organized on a permanent basis instead of a single election or event. The term may have a pejorative sense referring to corrupt political machines.\n\nThe term \"political machine\" dates back to the 20th century in the United States, where such organizations have existed in some municipalities and states since the 18th century. Similar machines have been described in Latin America, where the system has been called \"\" or political clientelism (after the similar Clientela relationship in the Roman Republic), especially in rural areas, and also in some African states and other emerging democracies, like postcommunist Eastern European countries. Japan's Liberal Democratic Party is often cited as another political machine, maintaining power in suburban and rural areas through its control of farm bureaus and road construction agencies. In Japan, the word \"jiban\" (literally \"base\" or \"foundation\") is the word used for political machines.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" defines \"political machine\" as, \"in U.S. politics, a party organization, headed by a single boss or small autocratic group, that commands enough votes to maintain political and administrative control of a city, county, or state\". William Safire, in his \"Safire's Political Dictionary\", defines \"machine politics\" as \"the election of officials and the passage of legislation through the power of an organization created for political action\". He notes that the term is generally considered pejorative, often implying corruption.\n\nHierarchy and discipline are hallmarks of political machines. \"It generally means strict organization\", according to Safire. Quoting Edward Flynn, a Bronx County Democratic leader who ran the borough from 1922 until his death in 1953, he wrote \"[...] the so-called 'independent' voter is foolish to assume that a political machine is run solely on good will, or patronage. For it is not only a machine; it is an army. And in any organization as in any army, there must be discipline.\"\n\nPolitical patronage, while often associated with political machines, is not essential to the definition for either Safire or \"Britannica.\"\n\nA political machine is a party organization that recruits its members by the use of tangible incentives—money, political jobs—and that is characterized by a high degree of leadership control over member activity.\n\nPolitical machines started as grass roots organizations to gain the patronage needed to win the modern election. Having strong patronage, these \"clubs\" were the main driving force in gaining and getting out the \"straight party vote\" in the election districts.\n\nIn the late 19th century, large cities in the United States—Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Kansas City, New York City, Philadelphia, St. Louis—were accused of using political machines. During this time \"cities experienced rapid growth under inefficient government\". Each city's machine lived under a hierarchical system with a \"boss\" who held the allegiance of local business leaders, elected officials and their appointees, and who knew the proverbial buttons to push to get things done. Benefits and problems both resulted from the rule of political machines.\n\nThis system of political control—known as \"bossism\"—emerged particularly in the Gilded Age. A single powerful figure (the boss) was at the center and was bound together to a complex organization of lesser figures (the political machine) by reciprocity in promoting financial and social self-interest. One of the most infamous of these political machines was Tammany Hall, the Democratic Party machine that played a major role in controlling New York City and New York politics and helping immigrants, most notably the Irish, rise up in American politics from the 1790s to the 1960s. From 1872, Tammany had an Irish \"boss\". However, Tammany Hall also served as an engine for graft and political corruption, perhaps most notoriously under William M. \"Boss\" Tweed in the mid-19th century.\n\nLord Bryce describes these political bosses saying:\n\nWhen asked if he was a boss, James Pendergast said simply,\n\nTheodore Roosevelt, before he became president in 1901, was deeply involved in New York City politics. He explains how the machine worked:\n\nThe organization of a party in our city is really much like that of an army. There is one great central boss, assisted by some trusted and able lieutenants; these communicate with the different district bosses, whom they alternately bully and assist. The district boss in turn has a number of half-subordinates, half-allies, under him; these latter choose the captains of the election districts, etc., and come into contact with the common heelers.\n\nMany machines formed in cities to serve immigrants to the U.S. in the late 19th century who viewed machines as a vehicle for political enfranchisement. Machine workers helped win elections by turning out large numbers of voters on election day. It was in the machine's interests to only maintain a minimally winning amount of support. Once they were in the majority and could count on a win, there was less need to recruit new members, as this only meant a thinner spread of the patronage rewards to be spread among the party members. As such, later-arriving immigrants, such as Jews, Italians, and other immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe between the 1880s and 1910s, saw fewer rewards from the machine system than the well-established Irish. At the same time, the machines' staunchest opponents were members of the middle class, who were shocked at the malfeasance and did not need the financial help.\n\nThe corruption of urban politics in the United States was denounced by private citizens. They achieved national and state civil-service reform and worked to replace local patronage systems with civil service. By Theodore Roosevelt's time, the Progressive Era mobilized millions of private citizens to vote against the machines.\n\nIn the 1930s, James A. Farley was the chief dispenser of the Democratic Party's patronage system through the Post Office and the Works Progress Administration which eventually nationalized many of the job benefits machines provided. The New Deal allowed machines to recruit for the WPA and Civilian Conservation Corps, making Farley's machine the most powerful. All patronage was screened through Farley, including presidential appointments. The New Deal machine fell apart after he left the administration over the third term in 1940. Those agencies were abolished in 1943 and the machines suddenly lost much of their patronage. The formerly poor immigrants who had benefited under Farley's national machine had become assimilated and prosperous and no longer needed the informal or extralegal aides provided by machines. In the 1940s most of the big city machines collapsed, with the exception of Chicago. A local political machine in Tennessee was forcibly removed in what was known as the 1946 Battle of Athens.\nSmaller communities such as Parma, Ohio, in the post–Cold War Era under Prosecutor Bill Mason's \"Good Old Boys\" and especially communities in the Deep South, where small-town machine politics are relatively common, also feature what might be classified as political machines, although these organizations do not have the power and influence of the larger boss networks listed in this article. For example, the \"Cracker Party\" was a Democratic Party political machine that dominated city politics in Augusta, Georgia, for over half of the 20th century. Political machines also thrive on Native American reservations, where the veil of sovereignty is used as a shield against federal and state laws against the practice.\n\nThe phrase is considered derogatory \"because it suggests that the interest of the organization are placed before those of the general public\", according to Safire. Machines are criticized as undemocratic and inevitably encouraging corruption.\n\nSince the 1960s, some historians have reevaluated political machines, considering them corrupt but efficient. Machines were undemocratic but responsive. They were also able to contain the spending demands of special interests. In \"Mayors and Money\", a comparison of municipal government in Chicago and New York, Ester R. Fuchs credited the Cook County Democratic Organization with giving Mayor Richard J. Daley the political power to deny labor union contracts that the city could not afford and to make the state government assume burdensome costs like welfare and courts. Describing New York, Fuchs wrote, \"New York got reform, but it never got good government.\" At the same time, as Dennis R. Judd and Todd Swanstrom suggest in \"City Politics\" that this view accompanied the common belief that there were no viable alternatives. They go on to point out that this is a falsehood, since there are certainly examples of reform oriented, anti-machine leaders during this time.\n\nIn his mid-2016 article \"How American Politics Went Insane\" in \"The Atlantic\", Jonathan Rauch argued that the political machines of the past had flaws but provided better governance than the alternatives. He wrote that political machines created positive incentives for politicians to work together and compromise – as opposed to pursuing \"naked self-interest\" the whole time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8415315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8415315", "title": "Professional Regulation Commission", "text": "Professional Regulation Commission\n\nThe Professional Regulation Commission, () otherwise known as the PRC, is a three-man commission attached to Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE). Its mandate is to regulate and supervise the practice of the professionals (except lawyers, who are handled by the Supreme Court of the Philippines) who constitute the highly skilled manpower of the country. As the agency-in-charge of the professional sector, the PRC plays a strategic role in developing the corps of professionals for industry, commerce, governance, and the economy.\n\nThe Commission was created with the signing of Presidential Decree No. 223 on June 22, 1973 by President Ferdinand E. Marcos. The first PRC Commissioner, Architect Eric C. Nubla assumed office on January 2, 1974. \n\nThe PRC Coat-of-Arms designed by the Heraldry Commission was officially adopted on February 1, 1974. The Commission made its offices at the burned Civil Service Commission building at P. Paredes Street in Manila. The structure later became the PRC Main Building. The PRC began issuing certificates of registration in Filipino with English translation. Proclamation No. 1276 is issued declaring June 22 to 29 of 1974 as \"Professional Consciousness Week.\"\n\n1974 also saw the computerization of the database of registered professionals with the assistance of the National Computer Center. The Implementing Rules and Regulations of P.D. 223 are promulgated on December 9 of that year.\n\nIn 1975, PRC began issuing computer-printed registration cards with one-year validity. PRC starts accrediting professional organizations.\n\n1986 saw the Hon. Julio B. Francia assume office as Commission Chairman and launch drive against graft and corruption. During his term the Chairman & a member of the Board for Deck Officers were caught to be checking wrong answers (273 examinees from Master to Third Mate)resulting in their termination as Board Members and suspension of examination for two years for the 273 whose answer sheets were marked.\n\nIn 1992, Atty. Hermogenes P. Pobre|Hermogenes P. Pobre assumes office as third Commission Chairman. \n\nThe PRC Vision and Mission is adopted during the Annual Planning Conference in 1998. \n\nIn 1999 the commission was formally awarded ISO 9002 certification by the Anglo-Japanese-American Environmental Quality and Safety Certification Services for the licensing and certification of marine deck and engineer officers.\n\n2001 saw Commissioner Alfonso G. Abad assume office as Acting Chairman in February. The Implementing Rules and Regulations of R.A. 8981 are adopted on February 15. Hon. Antonieta Fortuna-Ibe assumed office as the first lady Chairperson on August 1.\n\nFormer Philippine Court of Appeals Justice Nicolas P. Lapeña Jr formally assumed office on August 26, 2008, as Chairman of the PRC succeeding Dr. Leonor T. Rosero, who finished her term last July. He joins incumbent PRC Commissioners Nilo L. Rosas and Ruth Raña Padilla.\nWithout finishing his term, Chairman Nicolas P. Lapeña Jr. retired on December 31, 2010. Commissioner Antonio S. Adriano assumed as Officer-in-Charge from January 1 to 9, 2011. Atty.Teresita R. Manzala assumed office as the new PRC Chairperson on January 10, 2010. The New Chairperson joins Commissioner Alfredo Y. Po and Commissioner Jennifer J. Manalili, who replaces Commissioner Nilo L. Rosas and Commissioner Antonio S. Adriano, respectively.\n\nInvestigates cases against erring examinees and professionals. Its decisions have the force and effect of the decisions of a court of law, with the same level of authority as a Regional Trial Court. After the lapse of the period within which to file an appeal, Commission decisions become final and executory.\n\nFormulates rules and policies on professional regulation. When published in the official gazette, these rules have the force and effect of law.\n\nAdminister, implements, and enforces the regulatory policies of the national government, including the maintenance of professional and occupational standards and ethics and the enforcement of the rules and regulations relative thereto.\n\nThe Professional Regulation Commission is the instrument of the Filipino people in securing for the nation a reliable, trustworthy and progressive system of determining the competence of professionals by credible and valid licensure examinations and standards of professional practice that are globally recognized.\n\nTo deliberately, scientifically, and consistently determine the competence of professionals through the provision of professional standards and judicious issuance of professional license.\n\n\"Nurture Filipino professionals towards technical proficiency and civic responsibility in the service of the Filipino nation\"\n\nRepublic Act 8981, otherwise known as the \"PRC Modernization Act Of 2000\", mandates the following:\n\nUnder the Commission are the forty-three (43) Professional Regulatory Boards which exercise administrative, quasi-legislative, and quasi-judicial powers over their respective professions. The 43 PRBs which were created by separate enabling laws, perform these functions subject to review and approval by the Commission:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11177255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11177255", "title": "Revolutionary Command Council for National Salvation", "text": "Revolutionary Command Council for National Salvation\n\nThe Revolutionary Command Council for National Salvation (RCCNS-Sudan) was the governing body of Sudan following the June 1989 coup. It grew out of the collaboration between the Sudanese military and the National Islamic Front. It was the authority by which the military government of Sudan under Lt. Gen. Omar al-Bashir exercised power.\n\nAl-Bashir was the Chair of the Council, as well as Prime Minister, Defense Minister and Commander-in-Chief of the Sudanese Armed Forces. The rest of the council consisted of fourteen military officers, all of whom were involved in and associated with the coup. Therefore, no regulations about the selection and tenure of its members were declared to the public.\n\nThe RCCNS exercised legislative as well as some executive authority. It appointed committees to draft various legal decrees. The RCCNS did not publish any rules of procedures over its deliberations.\n\nIt banned political activity, arrested opposition members and closed down newspapers.\n\nThe RCCNS dissolved itself in October 1993, and its powers devolved to the President and the National Legislature of Sudan. This resulted in a majority of the power remaining with President al-Bashir.\n\n"}
{"id": "100943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100943", "title": "Royal charter", "text": "Royal charter\n\nA royal charter is a formal document issued by a monarch as letters patent, granting a right or power to an individual or a body corporate. They were, and are still, used to establish significant organisations such as cities (with municipal charters) or universities and learned societies. Charters should be distinguished from warrants and letters of appointment, as they have perpetual effect. Typically, a Royal Charter is produced as a high-quality work of calligraphy on vellum. The British monarchy has issued over 980 royal charters. Of these about 750 remain in existence. The earliest was to the town of Tain in 1066, making it the oldest Royal Burgh in Scotland, followed by the University of Cambridge in 1231. Charters continue to be issued by the British Crown, a recent example being that awarded to The Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors, in 2014.\n\nCharters have been used in Europe since medieval times to create cities (that is, localities with recognised legal rights and privileges). The date that such a charter is granted is considered to be when a city is 'founded', regardless of when the locality originally began to be settled (which is often impossible to determine).\n\nAt one time, a royal charter was the sole means by which an incorporated body could be formed, but other means (such as the registration process for limited companies) are generally used nowadays instead.\n\nAmong the past and present groups formed by royal charter are the Company of Merchants of the Staple of England (13th Century), the British East India Company (1600), the Hudson's Bay Company, Standard Chartered, the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company (P&O), the British South Africa Company, and some of the former British colonies on the North American mainland, City livery companies, the Bank of England and the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC).\n\n\n\n\n\nThe royal decree is the equivalent in Belgium of a Royal Charter. In the period before 1958, 32 higher education institutes had been created by royal charter. These were typically engineering or technical institutions rather than universities.\n\nHowever, several non-technical higher education institutions have been founded, or refounded, under royal decree:\n\nSince , competency over education was transferred to the federated entities of Belgium. Royal decrees can therefore no longer grant higher education institution status or university status.\n\nA Royal Charter is granted by Order in Council, either creating an incorporated body, or giving an existent one special status. This is an exercise of the Royal Prerogative, and, in Canada, there are hundreds of organisations under Royal Charters. Such organisations include charities, businesses, colleges, universities, and cities. Today, it is mostly charities and professional institutions who receive Royal Charters.\n\nApplication for a charter is a petition to the Queen-in-Council. To receive a Royal Charter, the organisation must have corporate members who have at least first degree level in a relevant field, consist of 5,000 members or more, be financially sound, and it must be in the public interest to regulate the institution under a charter. However, meeting these benchmarks does not guarantee the issuance of a Royal Charter.\n\nCompanies, corporations, and societies in Canada founded under or augmented by a Royal Charter include:\n\nBritish royal chartered corporations operating in Canada\n\nCities under Royal Charter are not subject to municipal Acts of Parliament applied generally to other municipalities, and instead are governed by legislation applicable to each city individually. The Royal Charter codifies the laws applied to the particular city, and lays out the powers and responsibilities not given to other municipalities in the province concerned.\n\nA number of Canadian universities and colleges were founded or reconstituted under Royal Charter.\n\nSeveral Canadian private schools were founded or reconstituted under Royal Charter.\n\n\nDuring British rule in Hong Kong which is between 1842 and 1997, a number of organisations had received Royal Charter:\n\nThe Institution of Engineers was incorporated by royal charter in 1935.\n\nA number of Irish institutions retain the \"Royal\" prefix, even though the Republic of Ireland severed all remaining connections between the state and the British monarch in 1949.\n\nA more detailed list of current Irish institutions with Royal patronage is available here\n\nA list of former Royal institutions with ties to Ireland, but they were mostly British institutions created in Ireland during British rule:\n\nThe British Institute of Florence was granted a Royal Charter in 1923.\n\nThe University of South Africa received a Royal Charter in 1877.\nThe Natal Yacht Club (Durban) received a Royal Charter in 1891, and is still known as Royal Natal Yacht Club.\nThe Natal Carbineers regiment received a Royal Charter in 1935, becoming known as the Royal Natal Carbineers until South Africa became a republic in 1961. The Royal Natal National Park's name remained unchanged, as did that of the Royal Society of South Africa, which received its Royal Charter in 1908.\n\n\nAmong the 750 or so organisations with Royal Charters are cities; the Bank of England; BSI Group; the BBC; theatres such as the Royal Opera House and the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane; Livery Companies; universities (mostly those founded before 1993) and learned societies; professional institutions, such as the Institution of Royal Engineers and charities.\n\nA Royal Charter is the mechanism by which a British town is raised to the status of city. Most recently Chelmsford in Essex was granted a Royal Charter in celebration of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee in 2012. Inverness, Brighton & Hove and Wolverhampton were given their charters to celebrate the Millennium, and Preston, Stirling, Newport, Lisburn and Newry to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Elizabeth II in 2002.\n\nMost British universities operate under Royal Charters, giving them the authority to award degrees. The most recent generation of UK universities were granted the power to award degrees by the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 instead of by Royal Charter, while some other universities operate under Acts of Parliament. The University of Buckingham, The University of Law are the only private higher education institutions to have received a Royal Charter.\n\nA number of English public schools such as Harrow School, Roedean School for Girls and Malvern College have received Royal Charters\n\nAlmost without exception, the longstanding learned societies, such as the Royal Society, the Royal Society of Literature, and the Royal Medical Society have Royal Charters.\n\nMost new grants of Royal Charters these days are reserved for eminent professional institutions, learned societies, or charities, which have a solid record of achievement and are financially stable. Though a royal charter is not necessary for them to incorporate or operate, it is often sought as recognition of \"pre-eminence, stability and permanence\" in representing their field of activity. For example, the five accountancy institutes which make up the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies each have a Royal Charter which allows their qualified members to style themselves \"Chartered Accountants\".\n\nThe BBC operates under a Royal Charter which lasts for a period of ten years, after which it is renewed.\n\nA Royal Charter changes a body from a collection of individuals into a single legal entity. Once incorporated by Royal Charter, amendments to the Charter and by-laws require government approval.\n\nIn January 2007, the UK Trade Marks Registry refused to grant protection to the American Chartered Financial Analyst trademark, as the word \"chartered\" in the UK is associated with royal charters.\n\nA list of UK chartered professional associations can be found here.\n\nAlthough several American universities which predate the American Revolution purport to hold royal charters, in a number of cases they were in fact created by a grant from a local council such as a colonial legislature.\n\nColleges created by royal charter from King William III and Queen Mary II of England:\n\nColleges created by King George II of Great Britain:\n\nAmerican colleges popularly believed to have been established by Royal Charter, but actually by some other type of grant:\n\nThe distinction between the Letters Patent forming Dartmouth, Princeton, and Rutgers versus those documents founding William & Mary or King's College (Columbia University) is that the seal of the Province of New Hampshire appears on Dartmouth College's charter and that the seal of the Province of New Jersey appears on Princeton University's and Rutgers University's charters while the Great Seal of the Realm appears on the College of William and Mary and King's College documents.\n\nThe Massachusetts Bay Colony was created by royal charter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25729065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25729065", "title": "Seas west of Scotland", "text": "Seas west of Scotland\n\nIt is a central tenet of the EU maritime policy (Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries) that all seas have a particular nature, defined by their geography, their ecology, their economies and their people. Most seas are nested (e.g. Atlantic Ocean, Irish Sea, Morecambe Bay) and do not, except for specific purposes such as hydrography or fisheries management, have sharp, recognised boundaries. One important sea for purposes of fisheries management is referred to as the \"seas West of Scotland\". In line with the EU maritime policy, the sea does not only encompass the waters but also the people and economy of the areas bordering that sea.\n\nThe entirety of the area has no specific name. It encompasses several marginal seas including the Malin Sea, the Inner Seas off the West Coast of Scotland, and the North Channel. It can be considered largely as the International Council for Exploration of the Sea area VIa whose easternmost boundary is nearly halfway between Cape Wrath and the Pentland Firth and whose southern extent to the west is in Donegal Bay. The border with the Irish Sea is at the level of Stranraer. The countries bordering these waters are Ireland, Northern Ireland and Scotland. As far as the EU's Marine Framework Strategy Directive is concerned the sea is part of the Celtic Seas. These should not to be confused with the Celtic Sea which is further south.\n\nThe UK's new Marine and Coastal Access Act will have limited direct influence on the waters west of Scotland because they are under the jurisdiction of the devolved administrations of Scotland and Northern Ireland (The Scottish Executive introduced a Bill to their Parliament in April 2009 and one should be introduced to the Northern Ireland Assembly in 2012. However the Scottish and Northern Ireland governments are collaborating on a \"marine policy statement\" which is the first stage in marine planning. The objective is to complete all the consultations in time to have a Statement in place by November 2011.\n\nMost of the Scottish coast has a very low population. The significant exception is the Firth of Clyde and the river Clyde which is in the South West Scotland Region. This is navigable to Glasgow which is the heartland of industrial Scotland and was for a time world's pre-eminent shipbuilding centre. Greater Glasgow has a population of 1,200,000. \nThe main coastal town of Northern Ireland bordering this sea is Derry which is on the northern coast and has a population of 237,000. County Donegal had a total population of 137,575 in 2002. Belfast, a major port and historic shipbuilding centre, is larger but is considered to be facing the Irish Sea.\nThe west of Scotland population is small in absolute terms and, other than Glasgow and its hinterland, what the Scottish statistical office term \"remote rural\" which means the people are greater than a 30-minute drive time to the nearest settlement with a population of 10,000 or more. We assume that this \"remote rural\" population can be used as a proxy for the coastal population. Neither the population as a whole nor the age distribution suggest that the population is declining. There is a deficit compared to the rest of Scotland in the 20–30 age group and a smaller one in the 30–40 group but, for school-age children and for those over 40 there is a net surplus. A possible explanation is that Scots leave rural areas for higher education and first job experience but these movements are compensated by English people in their 40s arriving to raise a family in wholesome surroundings. The proportion of inhabitants born in other parts of the UK is double that for Scotland as a whole.\n\nThe coastline is part of the Celtic fringe. Gaelic is spoken as a minority language in many parts of the area with strongholds in the Outer Hebrides and Tyrconnel in Donegal. Scottish Gaelic is declining in Scotland although the compulsory teaching of the Irish language in Irish schools means that most Irish citizens understand it to some extent. The variant of Gaelic spoken in Donegal is distinctive, and shares traits with Scottish Gaelic. Its Gaeltacht (Irish speaking area) uses the West Ulster dialect. Inishowen, which lost its Gaeltacht areas in the early 20th century, used the East Ulster dialect.\n\nFor the UK fleet as a whole, over the past 15 years there has been a sharp decline in demersal fishing, a fluctuating but relatively stationary situation for pelagic fish and an increase in Norway lobster (nephrops) fisheries. Since most of the pelagic and demersal fishing is carried out by North Sea-based vessels, it is the nephrops fishery that dominates the fisheries economy for ports facing the west of Scotland waters.\n\nA number of alterations and new regulations were introduced to the UK and Scottish fisheries management regime in 2009 including a reduction in days at sea allocations, the Conservation Credits Scheme and the West of Scotland Management Measures. Interim measures were introduced between February and April, with the new schemes fully implemented from May onwards.\nSkippers interviewed in a survey thought that these restrictions did affect the way they fished and their costs. But these were not the major concern. Whitefish skippers were concerned about low quotas and low prices in equal measure. The nephrops skippers from the West of Scotland did not feel that quotas were a limiting factor but were very concerned with low prices. Although a minority thought the management measures affected prices, most admitted that the falling demand was mainly due to the recession and other forces affecting the market that are beyond the control of the Common Fisheries Policy.\n\nRecovery is still some way off for the demersal fishery. Even with protective measures in place, cod is still being exploited through by-catches at a higher rate than recommended by scientists, haddock is being fished above the precautionary level and although the anglerfish is profitable, lack of scientific data means that the stock's ecological stability is unknown.\n\nThe nephrops fishery that has been growing in volume and value over the past five years to compensate for the declining whitefish. Fisheries scientists define the rate at which the stock is removed by fishing as the fishing mortality. ICES advise that the fishing mortality for nephrops should vary between F. and F which, for the stocks here, correspond to annual removal rates of 8.8% and 15.4% respectively. The Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF) believe that this is too lax and that the target should be F. Current exploitation rates are largely above F and therefore unsustainable. For 2009 the total allowable catch for regions VI and Vb was 18891 tonnes. STECF's advice in 2010 was to aim for lower catches.\n\nProfitability in the fisheries sector is unlikely to come from greater volumes of landings in the foreseeable future. One can expect a pelagic catch that fluctuates about a mean at approximately today's level, little recovery in the demersal stocks and reduced nephrops landings.\n\nFishing industry in Scotland\n\nScotland is the largest producer of farmed salmon in the EU. It is the third largest producer in the world, behind Norway and Chile. Scotland is responsible for 80 per cent of UK aquaculture production.\n\nIn 2007 Scottish production of Atlantic salmon stood at 129,930 tonnes. This was followed by rainbow trout (7,414 tonnes), and smaller amounts of other species such as cod (1,111 tonnes), brown trout/sea trout (124 tonnes), halibut (147 tonnes) and Arctic charr (6.5 tonnes). The shellfish industry produced 4,850 tonnes of mussels; 3.5 million Pacific oysters; 283,000 Native oysters; 384,000 Queen scallops; and 60,000 King scallops. The aquaculture industry in Scotland is estimated to have a farm gate value of £346 million (2007). This includes £324 million for farmed salmon, about £14 million for rainbow trout, and around £5 million for shellfish. Brown trout, sea trout, halibut and Arctic charr are also farmed in Scotland.\nAquaculture has grown remarkably in the past years.\n\nThe Renewed Strategic Framework for Scottish Aquaculture aims to implement the main aims of the May 2009 Communication i.e. promote the competitiveness of the EU aquaculture sector, ensure the sustainability of the sector and improve both the sector's image and its governance framework.\n\nWild salmon are iconic creatures whose anadromous migrations require undisturbed pathways from highland streams to feeding grounds off Greenland. So their presence in Scottish rivers is not only a great tourist attraction but an indicator that conservation measures in all aquatic environments are working. This explains the general dismay at calamitous drops in returns to the rivers from the sea despite largely successful efforts at reducing fishing mortality through net bans and shorter recreational fishing seasons. It is generally accepted that the mortality is at sea although the reason is still unknown. Several explanations have been postulated but none are totally convincing: influence of aquaculture through escape of farmed fish or transfer of parasites (although most salmon rivers flow to the east of Scotland and most aquaculture is to the west), global warming (although salmon populations have survived temperature changes as significant as the present ones) or catching at sea (although few salmon are found in nets). The three year, €5.5 million SALSEA-Merge research funded by the EU Framework Programme and partner organisations (the Total Foundation and the Atlantic Salmon Trust) is investigating this question.\n\nThe waters west of Scotland are some of the most appropriate in Europe for offshore renewable energy: very strong winds, shallowish water and strong tides.\n\nIn 2009 consortia were awarded exclusive development rights over potential windfarm sites in Kintyre, Islay and the Arran Array for a total of 2.558GW over 524.98 km allowing the project developers to commence with further site surveys and investigations prior to submitting consent applications. On 8 January 2010, new 'Round 3' were rights granted in 9 UK coastal zones with a potential for 6,400 additional turbines generating 32GW which far exceeds previous plans. None of these areas are in waters west of Scotland.\n\nThe long distance from potential consumers of electricity and the consequent power losses along long transmission lines are the major challenge. A recent report into the investment needs for meeting UK needs in 2020 suggested that an investment of €2.7 billion was needed and that 70% of this would be for transferring Scottish-generated power southwards.\n\nThe long sea lochs on Scotland's western coast might be suitable for storing energy.\nEven onshore renewable energy has a maritime aspect. Plans to build an onshore wind farm on the Isle of Lewis will require undersea cabling. These may cross marine protected areas and will therefore be subject to planning and licensing constraints.\n\nTransport to the islands in the waters west of Scotland is largely assured by a ferry service that is run by CalMac Ltd which serves 26 routes. In 2006, it transported 5,3 million passengers, 1,1 million cars, 94 000 commercial vehicles and 14 000 coaches on these routes. The company is owned by the Scottish Executive and receives a subsidy of around £45 million a year to offer a lifeline service. In 2009 the European Commission found that, with the exception of the Gourock-Dunoon ferry, these subsidies did not break state aid rules . A review of the services was undertaken in 2009 with a view to providing a ferry service that will achieve more balanced growth across Scotland, to give the most remote areas of Scotland the chance to contribute to, and benefit from, sustainable economic growth and therefore give them the chance to succeed. So far no reports have neen made public.\n"}
{"id": "36153476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36153476", "title": "Swayne, Robinson and Company", "text": "Swayne, Robinson and Company\n\nSwayne, Robinson and Company also known as \"Swayne, Robinson & Co.\" or simple \"Swayne, Robinson\" was an iron and aluminum casting factory founded in 1842 by Francis W. Robinson. The company operated until 1997, when it closed and its owners filed for bankruptcy. The building was located at 214 East Main Street Richmond, Indiana until 2001. A fire in 1999 destroyed a third of the building. It is the current site of the Wayne County Jail. Until it closed, it was the oldest family-owned business in America.\n\nSwayne, Robinson and Company was founded in 1842 by Francis W. Robinson when Robinson had bought out their competitor, Edward Borton & Son, under the name F.W. Robinsons. The company made farm equipment which Robinson had grown an interest in and wanted to make an effort in helping decrease waste and increase farm profits. It would manufacture \"traveling separators\" which allowed farmers to collect more grain per field. By 1860, the company not only manufactured separators but began producing portable steam engines with several patents. In 1866, Robinson's son, Henry, would join the company and Henry, his son-in-law and Robinson's son-in-law, Samuel E. Swayne, who served as a secretary, would buy out the parties in the company and in 1872 would change their name to Robinson Machine Works. The company began manufacturing steam-engine governor, a straw stacker, and a clover-gathering attachment in the 1880s and in 1889 they incorporated as Robinson and Company. Upon his father's death in 1897, Henry would become president of the company.\n\nIn 1909, upon Henry Robinson's death, Samuel Swayne became president of the company and in 1912 the company had expanded three city blocks in four buildings and had branches in Indianapolis, Columbus and St. Louis, as well as several other states across the Midwest and the South. While most of the company's sales percentages came from the Midwest most of the products could be found in India, Africa, the Dutch East Indies, and Argentina. In 1914, the company would again change its name to Swayne, Robinson and Company to reflect the work done by Swayne. During World War I, the company began to manufacture lawn mower castings to compete with companies like John Deere and International Harvester, for the local lawn manufacturer, Dille & McGuire and F & N Lawn Mowers. The company began making pieces for the Starr Piano Company as well. In 1933, Henry R. Robinson would take over as president of the company after the death of Samuel Swayne. During World War II, the company switched to producing war materials, in particular piston ring castings and parts for the manufacture of bombs. Due to the post-war economic boom, this created a huge demand for new parts for new products. In 1946, Charles K. Robinson took over the company after the death of Henry R. Robinson.\n\nAt the end of World War II, the company once again switched production to auto manufacturing and by the mid-fifties at least twenty percent of American made cars included parts from the company. The company soon began to experience declines in sales, and began focusing on iron casting for other companies, including boat anchors, transmission parts, gears, and pulley parts. Unable to compete, the company in July 1997 filed for bankruptcy and closed its doors putting an end to the 155-year-old family run business, making it the longest family-owned business in America.\n\nOn March 17, 1999, nearly two years after the company closed, a fire engulfed the northwest corner of the building by Main Street and Third. Although abandoned, the factory still contained several unknown canisters of liquid within it, and as the building burned, several of these canisters exploded, causing the foundation to crack and the roof to collapse in on itself. Afterwards, in June 2000, the county purchased the property and, after environmental test on the grounds, began construction in 2001 on the Wayne County Sheriff's Office and Correctional Center, which opened in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1346864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1346864", "title": "The Hollow Hope", "text": "The Hollow Hope\n\nThe Hollow Hope: Can Courts Bring About Social Change?was written by Gerald N. Rosenberg and published in 1991. A highly controversial work, it produced labels ranging from \"revolutionary\" to \"insulting.\" A Second Edition of the book was published in 2008 by the University of Chicago Press ().\n\nIn his book, Gerald Rosenberg questions the validity of the commonly accepted axiom that the Supreme Court of the United States is able to affect widespread social change. Naturally, such a drastic departure from conventional beliefs drew the ire of many critics, both within and beyond academia.\n\nRosenberg examines two views of the United States Supreme Court: the view of the Dynamic Court and the view of the Constrained Court. The Dynamic Court view maintains that the United States Supreme Court is indeed capable of affecting widespread change, often citing cases such as \"Brown v. Board\" and \"Roe v. Wade\" as examples. The Constrained Court view, on the other hand, holds that because of the existing constraints imposed upon the Court by the United States Constitution and the United States Congress, the Court is unable to accomplish significant change.\n\nRosenberg sides largely with the Constrained Court view. He studies several landmark cases that have been handed down from the Court, such as \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\" (1954) and \"Roe v. Wade\" (1973), and asserts that in each examined situation, the Court was largely unable to attain any tangible, empirically-measurable change. Rosenberg names three constraints that preclude the US Supreme Court from being truly effective, and arrives at the conclusion that although the Court is indeed capable of accomplishing significant change, such change can only occur when these three constraints are overcome.\n\nThe First Constraint is that the nature of constitutional rights precludes the Court from hearing or effectively acting on many significant social reform claims, and lessens the chances of popular mobilization. This Constraint can be overcome if there exists sufficient precedent for change based on the Judiciary's interpretation of the Constitution.\n\nThe Second Constraint is that the Court does not have sufficient independence from the legislative and executive branches to affect significant social reform. This Constraint can be overcome by securing support from substantial numbers in Congress and securing the support of the executive branch.\n\nThe Third Constraint is that the Court does not have the power to develop necessary policy and implement decisions that could affect significant reform. Because, as Alexander Hamilton put it, the Court controls neither the sword (Executive branch) nor the purse (Legislative branch), it must rely on cooperation from the other two branches in order to enforce its decisions. This Constraint can be overcome either by securing support of citizens, or at least not having significant opposition from all citizens.\n\nRosenberg maintains that the efforts made by women's rights, pro-choice, and civil rights activists to use the courts to produce social change have not been very effective. To prove and support this claim, he examines a great deal of statistical information. In looking at the effects that \"Brown v. Board\" had on desegregation, for example, Rosenberg looks at the percentage of black schoolchildren attending mixed schools in the South in the years preceding this landmark decision, and the years following it. He finds that almost no measurable change had occurred in the ten years following this decision. Indeed, it is not until the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that the percentage begins to increase annually. Similarly, in looking at \"Roe v. Wade\", he finds that the annual number of legal abortions did not seem to be greatly affected by the Court's decision.\n\nThere is a great deal of criticism leveled at \"The Hollow Hope.\" Critics maintain that Rosenberg's argument ignores the implications of court decisions on future actions that created more direct change. There are similar omissions in discussion of Martin Luther King, who cited \"Brown v. Board\" as a reason for mobilizing his followers in a speech given on a night preceding a boycott.\n\nDespite these drawbacks, many agree that Rosenberg presents a provocative if flawed argument against the conventional wisdom that the United States Supreme Court is a powerful judicial body capable of introducing significant change. However, these same critics maintain that Rosenberg relies on faulty assumptions, such as the duality of man.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2817861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2817861", "title": "Tin bounds", "text": "Tin bounds\n\nTin bounds were an ancient legal arrangement used in the counties of Devon and Cornwall in South West England to encourage the exploitation of land for the extraction of tin.\n\nTin bounds were created by the miner (or 'bounder') pitching stones or turves at the four corners of the land he intended to work. The bounder was required to declare his bounds to the Stannary Court and to renew them annually by re-pitching the stones or turves. During the early history of mining, the bounder was also required to actually work the land for tin in order for the bounds to remain valid, although this requirement was diluted over time.\n\nTin bounds did not confer any rights of ownership over the land, only protection against others mining for tin in the same plot of land. The arrangement applied only to tin, not to other metals or minerals.\n\nThe bounder was required to pay the freeholder of the land a portion of the tin extracted. This portion was known as toll tin.\n\nAlthough tin bounding has never been abolished, the use of tin bounds as the mechanism for permitting and regulating the right to work for tin was later superseded by the use of mining setts.\n\nDartmoor tin-mining\n"}
{"id": "2221576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221576", "title": "Trustee in bankruptcy", "text": "Trustee in bankruptcy\n\nA trustee in bankruptcy is an entity, often an individual, in charge of administering a bankruptcy estate.\n\nIn the United States, a Trustee in Bankruptcy is a person who is appointed by the United States Trustee Program, a division of the United States Department of Justice. In limited circumstances, the creditors involved in a bankruptcy case can elect a trustee.\n\nIn a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy (\"Liquidation\") the trustee gathers the debtor’s non-exempt property, managing the funds from the sale of those assets, and then paying expenses and distributing the balance to the owed creditors.\n\nIn a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy (\"Reorganization\") the trustee is responsible for receiving the debtor’s monthly payments and distributing those funds proportionally to the debtor's creditors. The Bankruptcy Trustee will act on behalf of the debtor to guarantee that both the creditors’ and the debtor’s interests are maintained in accordance with the bankruptcy laws, and will often be required to act as a negotiator between the two parties.\n\nSince the 1990s, duties similar to those of a trustee are sometimes performed by an individual called a Chief restructuring officer (CRO), generally prior to, or subsequent to, a bankruptcy proceeding (generally, a Chapter 11 proceeding). A CRO is an official of the company who has direct contact with the creditors and who has executive power to implement changes. The advantage of using a CRO is that the arrangement gives both the creditor and debtor more say over the future of the company than might be the case where a Chapter 11 bankruptcy trustee is appointed.\n\nSee: Bankruptcy in Canada\n\nIn Canada, a trustee in bankruptcy is an individual or a corporation licensed by the official superintendent to hold in trust and, subsequently, to distribute bankrupt’s property among the creditors in accordance with the distribution scheme under the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (BIA). The bankrupt and all other persons holding bankrupt’s property must transfer the property to trustee. The trustee may also assist individual in preparing and submitting a consumer proposal to creditors. The trustee must arrange mandatory counselling of the bankrupt. The trustee must follow the procedures under the BIA, call creditors meetings and send the parties required notices of proceedings and documents. The trustee is responsible for preparation of pre-discharge report and may oppose the bankrupt’s discharge.\n\n"}
{"id": "31801377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31801377", "title": "Ultrasurf", "text": "Ultrasurf\n\nUltraSurf is a freeware Internet censorship circumvention product created by UltraReach Internet Corporation. The software enables its users to bypass Internet censorship and firewalls using an HTTP proxy server, and employs encryption protocols for privacy.\nThe software was developed by Chinese dissidents as a means of allowing internet users to bypass the Great Firewall of China. It currently boasts as many as 11 million users worldwide. The tool has been lauded as \"one of the most important free-speech tools on the Internet\" by \"Wired\", and as the \"best performing\" circumvention tool by Harvard University in a 2007 study; a 2011 study by Freedom House ranked it fourth. Critics in the open-source community, George Turner Says, have expressed concern about the software's closed-source nature and alleged security through obscurity design; UltraReach says their security considerations mean they prefer third party expert review to open source review.\n\nIn 2002, UltraReach was founded by Chinese dissidents in Silicon Valley. Shortly after, UltraSurf was created to allow internet users in China to evade government censorship and monitoring. As of 2011 UltraSurf reported over eleven million users worldwide. During the Arab Spring, UltraReach recorded a 700 percent spike in traffic from Tunisia. Similar traffic spikes occur frequently during times of unrest in other regions, such as Tibet and Burma during the Saffron Revolution. Wired magazine in 2010 called UltraSurf \"one of the most important free-speech tools on the Internet\" for enabling citizens to access and share information from oppressed countries during times of humanitarian or human rights crises.\nUltraSurf is funded, in part, through contracts with the U.S. government's Broadcasting Board of Governors, which administers Voice of America and Radio Free Asia. As of 2012, UltraReach has had difficulty serving its growing user base due to insufficient funding.\n\nUltraSurf is free to download, and requires no installation. UltraSurf does not install any files on the user's computer, and leaves no registry edits after it exits. In other words, it leaves no trace of its use. To fully remove the software from the computer, a user needs only to delete the exe file named u.exe. It is only available on a Windows platform, and runs through Internet Explorer by default, with an optional plug-in for Firefox and Chrome.\nThe UltraReach website notes that \"Some anti-virus software companies misclassify UltraSurf as a malware or Trojan because UltraSurf encrypts the communications and circumvents internet censorship.\" Some security companies have agreed to whitelist UltraSurf. According to Applebaum, the UltraSurf client uses anti-debugging techniques and also employs executable compression. The client acts as a local proxy which communicates with the UltraReach network through what appears to be an obfuscated form of TLS/SSL.\n\nThe software works by creating an encrypted HTTP tunnel between the user's computer and a central pool of proxy servers, enabling users to bypass firewalls and censorship. UltraReach hosts all of its own servers. The software makes use of sophisticated, proprietary anti-blocking technology to overcome filtering and censorship online. According to Wired magazine, UltraSurf changes the \"IP addresses of their proxy servers up to 10,000 times an hour.\" On the server-side, a 2011 analysis found that the UltraReach network employed squid and ziproxy software, as well as ISC BIND servers bootstrapping for a wider network of open recursive DNS servers, the latter not under UltraReach control.\n\nUltraSurf is designed primarily as an anti-censorship tool, but also offer privacy protections in the form of industry standard encryption, with an added layer of obfuscation built in. UltraReach uses an internal content filter which blocks some sites, such as those deemed pornographic or otherwise offensive. According to Wired magazine: \"That's partly because their network lacks the bandwidth to accommodate so much data-heavy traffic, but also because Falun Gong frowns on erotica.\" Additionally, the Falun Gong criticism website facts.org.cn, alleged to be operated by the Chinese government, is also unreachable through UltraSurf.\n\nIn a 2007 study, Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet & Society found UltraSurf to be the \"best performing\" of all tested circumvention tools during in-country tests, and recommended it for widespread use. In particular, the report found that UltraSurf effectively bypassed various forms of censorship and blocking, include IP block, DNS block, and keyword filtering. It was also the fastest tool during in-country tests, and was noted for being easy to use and install with a simple user interface.\n\nThe report noted, however, that UltraReach is designed primarily as a circumvention product, rather than as an anonymity tool, and suggested that users concerned about anonymity should disable browser support for active content when using UltraSurf.\nA 2011 report by the U.S.-based human rights group Freedom House ranked UltraSurf fourth overall among censorship circumvention and privacy tools, as measured by a combination of performance, usability, support and security. In particular, the tool was recommended for users interested in downloading or viewing information, who required a relatively high degree of privacy, and who favored a fast connection speed.\nSome technologists have expressed reservations about the UltraReach model, however. In particular, its developers have been criticized by proponents of open-source software for not allowing peer review of the tool's design, except at the discretion of its creators. Moreover, because UltraReach operates all its own servers, their developers have access to user logs. This architecture means that users are simply required to trust UltraReach not to reveal user data. UltraReach maintains that it keeps logs for a short period of time, and uses them only for the purpose of analyzing traffic for signs of interference or to monitor overall performance and efficacy; the company says it does not disclose user logs to third parties. According to Jacob Appelbaum with the Tor Project, an UltraSurf competitor, this essentially amounts to an example of \"privacy by policy\".\nIn an April 2012 report, Appelbaum further criticized UltraSurf for its use of internal content filtering (including blocking pornographic websites), and for its willingness to comply with subpoenas from U.S. law enforcement officials. Appelbaum's report also noted that UltraSurf pages employed Google Analytics, which had the potential to leak user data, and that its systems were not all up to date with the latest security patches and did not make use of forward security mechanisms. Furthermore, Applebaum claims that \"The UltraSurf client uses Open and Free Software including Putty and zlib. The use of both Putty and zlib is not disclosed. This use and lack of disclosure is a violation of the licenses.\" In a response posted the same day, UltraReach wrote that it had already resolved these issues. They asserted that Appelbaum's report had misrepresented or misunderstood other aspects of its software. UltraReach also argued that the differences between the software approaches to Internet censorship represented by Tor and UltraSurf were at base philosophical and simply different approaches to censorship circumvention. A top-secret NSA presentation revealed as part of the 2013 global surveillance disclosures dismisses this response by UltraSurf as \"all talk and no show\".\n\nDue to restrictions imposed by some organizations, McAfee VirusScan is flagging some Ultrasurf versions as a Potentially unwanted program, avoiding its execution on those machines.\nUltrasurf is not a virus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1032530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032530", "title": "Unanimity", "text": "Unanimity\n\nUnanimity is agreement by all people in a given situation. Groups may consider unanimous decisions as a sign of agreement, solidarity, and unity. Unanimity may be assumed explicitly after a unanimous vote or implicitly by a lack of objections. It does not necessarily mean uniformity and can sometimes be the opposite of majority in terms of outcomes.\n\nPractice varies as to whether a vote can be considered unanimous if some voter abstains. In \"Robert's Rules of Order\", a \"unanimous vote\" is not specifically defined, although an abstention is not counted as a vote regardless of the voting threshold. Also in this book, action could be taken by \"unanimous consent\", or \"general consent\", if there are no objections raised. However, unanimous consent may not necessarily be the same as a unanimous vote (see Not the same as unanimous vote). In either case, it does not take into account the members who were not present.\n\nIn contrast, a United Nations Security Council resolution is not considered \"unanimous\" if a member abstains. In the European Union, the Treaty of Amsterdam introduced the concept of \"constructive abstention\", where a member can abstain in a vote where unanimity is required without thereby blocking the success of the vote. This is intended to allow states to symbolically withhold support while not paralysing decision-making.\n\nThe occurrence of unanimity in a representative democracy can be elusive with the diversity and variety of opinions in a participatory democracy. Unanimity is often a political endeavor. Although governments and international organizations may occasionally achieve unanimous decisions, popular consent is most often a more achievable aspiration for elected officials.\n\nThe legitimacy supposedly established by unanimity has been used by dictatorial regimes in an attempt to gain support for their position. Participants in a legislature may be coerced or intimidated into supporting the position of a dictator, with the legislature becoming little more than a rubber stamp for a more powerful authority.\n\nOne-party states can restrict nominees to one per seat in elections and use compulsory voting or electoral fraud to create an impression of popular unanimity. The North Korean parliamentary elections, 1962 reported a 100% turnout and a 100% vote for the Workers' Party of Korea. 100% votes have also been claimed by Ahmed Sékou Touré in Guinea in 1975 and 1982, Félix Houphouët-Boigny in Côte d'Ivoire in 1985, and Saddam Hussein in Iraq in 2002.\n\nIn criminal law jury trials, many jurisdictions require a guilty verdict by a jury to be unanimous. This is not so in civil law jury trials.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Apodaca v. Oregon\" that the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not require jury unanimity in state courts, with a concurring opinion that the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution mandates unanimity for a guilty verdict in a federal court jury trial. Notwithstanding this, many U.S. states do require jury unanimity for a finding of guilty; for example, article 21 of the Maryland Constitution's Declaration of Rights states:\n\nIn England and Wales, since the Juries Act 1974, a guilty verdict may be returned where not more than 2 jurors dissent.\n\n"}
{"id": "26338964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26338964", "title": "United States federal laws governing defendants with mental diseases or defects", "text": "United States federal laws governing defendants with mental diseases or defects\n\nUnited States federal laws governing offenders with mental diseases or defects () provide for the evaluation and handling of defendants who are suspected of having mental diseases or defects. The laws were completely revamped by the Insanity Defense Reform Act of 1984 in the wake of the John Hinckley verdict.\n\nA defendant can be found incompetent to stand trial if he is unable to understand the nature and consequences of the proceedings against him and to assist properly in his defense. In such a case, he is involuntarily committed until his competency is restored. The Supreme Court has ruled that the government has a legitimate interest in bringing defendants to trial and that therefore incompetent defendants can be forcibly medicated under certain circumstances. See \"Sell v. United States\". Time served while waiting to be restored to competence generally counts as \"dead time,\" because it is not official detention but rather is (in theory) devoted to treatment. The Supreme Court has ruled that an insanity acquittee can be held indefinitely. Statements made by the defendant in the course of his evaluation cannot be admitted as evidence against him on the issue of guilt.\n\nBetween 1940 and 1984, the law provided for a board of examiners to be established for each federal and penal correctional institution that would consist of three medical officers, one appointed by the warden or superintendent of the institution; another by the U.S. Attorney General; and another by the U.S. Public Health Service. The pre-1984 law did not have the same stringent 30- and 45-day time limits for examinations, but merely provided that \"For the purpose of the examination the court may order the accused committed for such reasonable period as the court may determine to a suitable hospital or other facility to be designated by the court.\" The law provided that even if mental competency was not raised as an issue before conviction, if a board of examiners found probable cause to believe the defendant had been incompetent at the time of his trial, the court could vacate the judgment of conviction and grant a new trial.\n\nPer Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 12.2, a defendant intending to pursue an insanity defense must timely notify an attorney for the government in writing. The government then has a right to have the court order a psychiatric or psychological examination. If the defendant does not submit to the examination, the court may exclude any expert evidence from the defendant on the issue of the defendant’s mental disease, mental defect, or any other mental condition. Federal law provides for the commitment of those found not guilty only by reason of insanity. Once such a verdict is handed down, the defendant has the burden of proof of showing that his release would not create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person or serious damage of property of another due to a present mental disease or defect. Because of the difficulty in proving such a thing, in some cases, defendants found not guilty only by reason of insanity serve more time in a mental hospital than they would have served in prison had they been found guilty. A risk panel is typically tasked with making such assessments.\n\nThere is also a provision allowing the hospitalization of a person due for release but suffering from mental disease or defect. If the director of a facility in which a person is hospitalized certifies that a person in the custody of the Bureau of Prisons whose sentence is about to expire, or who has been committed to the custody of the Attorney General due to incompetence, or against whom all criminal charges have been dismissed solely for reasons related to the mental condition of the person, is suffering from a mental disease or defect as a result of which his release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person or serious damage to property of another, and that suitable arrangements for State custody and care of the person are not available, the court will hold a hearing on the matter. If it finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is indeed presently suffering from a mental disease or defect as a result of which his release would create a substantial risk of bodily injury to another person or serious damage to property of another, then it can hold him until such time as his condition has sufficiently improved. When proceedings are initiated under this act, the person is entitled to an adversarial hearing with the right to counsel, the opportunity to testify, to present evidence, subpoena witnesses, and confront and cross-examine witnesses.\n\nThe 2006 Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act has been codified as . It allows a person deemed \"sexually dangerous\" to be civilly committed after the expiration of a federal criminal sentence. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit found that civil commitments were within the power granted to Congress under the Constitution's Necessary and Proper Clause as an extension of the government's custodial responsibility for federal inmates. The provision of indefinite holding of prisoners after the expiration of their terms was ruled constitutional in 2010 in \"United States v. Comstock\".\n"}
{"id": "218230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218230", "title": "Urban survival syndrome", "text": "Urban survival syndrome\n\nThe urban survival syndrome, in United States jurisprudence, can be used either as a defense of justification or of excuse. The first case using, unsuccessfully, the defense of \"urban survival syndrome\" is the 1994 Fort Worth, Texas murder trial of Daimion Osby.\n\nThe use of the urban survival syndrome as a defense to criminal charges followed the success of the battered woman syndrome defense in \"State v. Kelly\" (1984), which was based on the acceptance that the presence of such a syndrome may cause the defendant, a victim of domestic violence, to reasonably believe she was in peril and was therefore justified in using deadly force, given the circumstances.\n\nAs an excuse defense, the urban survival syndrome is presented as a version of the abuse defense. Here an individual experiencing the daily life of racial segregation and violence common in many inner cities in the United States causes a subjective state equivalent to that caused by survival in a violent battleground of war. As such it leads to a condition similar to a syndrome already recognized in both psychological and psychiatric practices, that is, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). \n\nAs a justification defense, the urban survival syndrome is offered to bolster self-defense claims in which a defendant argues that he or she should not be held criminally responsible for actions which broke the law, as the defendant was objectively reasonable in believing his or her lethal actions were necessary for survival. In this case, the act would be termed justifiable homicide. A defense of justification is a codification of the common law defense of necessity.\n\nIn \"State v. Brown\", 91 N.M. 320, 573, P.2d 675 (N.M. 1977), the court was dealing with a similar situation to that of Osby, and a justification defense was used. The term, urban survival syndrome, had not yet come into being. Brown, a black man living in an inner city neighborhood, was charged with two counts of assault with intent to kill upon a police officer. Brown said that he was in fear of the police officers and acted in self-defense when he shot them. The court allowed defense witnesses to describe the verbal and physical harassment of blacks by police officers, including Brown, although the court refused to allow a social psychologist to testify describing studies of police conduct toward minority groups, nor those that concluded that minority groups might perceive police officers as hostile to them and would be apt to fear them in any street encounter. These studies could offer evidence of justification. Brown was convicted and appealed.\n\nThe New Mexico Court of Appeals reversed the decision to exclude expert testimony and remanded the case back for a new trial. The court felt such testimony supported Brown in his claim that he was in fear of immediate bodily harm when he shot the police officers, rather than acting out of anger and rejection of authority, as the prosecution alleged. Therefore, evidence bearing on Brown's state of mind at the time of the offense had been excluded as a reversible error.\n\nIn \"People v. Goetz\", 68 N.Y.2d 96 (N.Y. 1986), Bernhard Goetz, a white man, used the defense of a subjective state of terror and fear to justify the shooting of four black teenagers on a New York City subway. The court held that the test for whether the use of deadly force is justified should be entirely subjective and focus on the defendant's state of mind at the time of the incident and dismissed the criminal indictments of attempted murder, assault, and reckless endangerment. However, upon appeal the New York Court of Appeals, in a unanimous finding, held that the use of an entirely subjective test to determine the appropriateness of deadly physical force by a defendant could permit a jury to acquit every defendant who believed that his actions were reasonable, regardless of how bizarre the rationale, creating a slippery slope. The jury could determine a different reasonable test for every single defendant claiming justification. The Court explained that the justification statute requires an objective element; deadly physical force is only permissible if a reasonable person would believe that he is in imminent fear of serious physical injury or death.\n\n\"State v. Kelly\" (1984), by allowing testimony on battered woman syndrome, opened the door to considering the subjective state of the perpetrator as a pathological syndrome caused by environmental factors and allowing a defense on those grounds. \n\nThe term \"urban survival syndrome\" was first used in 1994 in a Fort Worth, Texas murder case in which two defense attorneys, David Bays and Bill Lane, defended Daimion Osby, their 17-year-old black client, who had shot and killed two unarmed men in a parking lot and was on trial on two counts of first degree murder. The victims were also black, and the defendant told the police he shot them because he was in fear for his life and had to kill them before they killed him. The attorneys argued that Osby had reason to be fearful because he lived in a dangerous community, an inner city neighborhood with one of the highest crime rates in the country. Expert testimony was allowed into evidence, provided by a sociologist who had written on race relations and who produced statistics that the Fort Worth area where the crime took place was a dangerous area with a high crime rate, and that the two men who were killed fit the FBI profile of America's most dangerous men. He also testified that being killed is the greatest danger facing young men in such neighborhoods. Osby claimed that for the past year the two men had repeatedly harassed and threatened him and his family over the payment of a gambling debt. Evidence was also presented that the two men had a gun in their car.\n\nBased on the testimony, the defense attorneys argued that the defendant's belief that he was in danger for his life was reasonable, and therefore he was justified in using lethal force. The jury of nine whites and three blacks deadlocked, eleven to one, in favor of conviction. The prosecutor was a black attorney who forcefully argued that there was no such syndrome in the field of psychiatry as \"urban survival syndrome\". The one holdout was a black man from the same neighborhood as Osby and who agreed that the area was a \"war zone\". Six jury members interviewed after the trial said they disregarded the defense as far-fetched. Further, a coalition of black ministers from Osby's neighborhood publicly disavowed that the neighborhood was so dangerous and complained that the defense reinforced racial stereotypes. \n\nUpon retrial on the murder charges, the defense attempted to introduce testimony from a psychologist, in addition to that of the sociologist, on the psychological effects of living in a violent urban area. The psychologist's testimony was disallowed and Osby was convicted on the two murder counts and sentenced to serve life in prison.\n\nThe \"urban survival syndrome\" has been criticized by blacks as a stereotyping of blacks as if all blacks react in the same way: that as a group blacks are violent, angry and more than likely guilty. This perspective demonstrated the flaw in any defense that depends on the rules and mores of a subculture as a replacement for those of the dominant society. Forth Worth minister Ralph Waldo Emerson stated:\nThe battered woman syndrome has been criticized on similar grounds: that it encourages the societal stereotype of women as helpless and incapacitated. While the court testimony can support the woman's actions as reasonable under the circumstances as self-defense, the courts seem to focus on testimony that portray the battered woman as \"dysfunctional\". Further problems arise with this defense when an analogous syndrome, the \"battered child syndrome\" is used as a defense, as the unique susceptibility of a woman to domestic violence can seem to be undercut.\n\n"}
{"id": "640416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640416", "title": "Usucaption", "text": "Usucaption\n\nUsucaption (Latin \"usucapio\"), also known as \"acquisitive prescription\", is a concept found in civil law systems and has its origin in the Roman law of property.\n\nUsucaption is a method by which ownership of property (i.e. title to the property) can be gained by possession of it beyond the lapse of a certain period of time (acquiescence). While usucaption has been compared with adverse possession (that is, squatting), the true effect of usucaption is to remedy defects in title.\n\nThe necessity for usucapion arose in Roman law with the divide between \"res mancipi\" and \"res nec mancipi\". \"Res mancipi\" required elaborate and inconvenient formal methods of conveyance to transfer title (a formal \"mancipatio\" ceremony, or \"in iure cessio\"). \"Res nec manicipi\" could be transferred by \"traditio\" (delivery) or \"in iure cessio\".\n\nThe remaining form of conveyance was \"traditio\". This was an informal conveyance which required only an intention to transfer and delivery of the property. If \"res mancipi\" were transferred by \"traditio\", full ownership would not pass and the recipient would become a bonitary owner.\n\nTherefore another form of conveyance was required that did not necessitate a ceremony or appearance before the praetor. Because Rome was becoming mercantile, it was simply inconvenient to perform a formal conveyance simply because property was classed as \"res mancipi\". There might also be a demand to transfer property in private between the transferring parties, such as in the establishment of \"fideicommissa\" (Roman trusts).\n\nThe need for establishing ownership by means other than conveyance was also a result of the practical defect of a system of ownership based on valid transfer. Title to property could be challenged under this system, because it depended on the good title of the person from whom you acquired the property and so on. If any person's title in the chain were challenged successfully, then this would defeat any title derived from it. This defect required a means of establishing ownership that was not contingent upon a chain of title but could be established independently.\n\nIf however a bonitary owner kept the \"res\" (property) in his possession for a certain amount of time (two years for land, one year for chattels) his title would become full title and he could assert himself as \"dominus\".\n\nUsucapion was the solution that emerged to address the defects of Roman ownership. It required five elements:\n\n\nThis largely ameliorated the problems experienced by conveyance as a means of establishing ownership, but could still yield harsh results. A purchaser of res mancipi could be on his way to successfully usucaping the property (e.g. 11 months in possession) but would lose his claim to it if his possession was challenged before the period of usucapion by someone who could establish title.\n\nUsucapion was altered by the Actio Publiciana (see Gaius 4.36) which gave scope in the vindicatio (the action for property) for a fictitious usucapion. Such a situation would only arise where the claimant's possession of the property had been interrupted before the period required to usucape it had elapsed. The Actio Publiciana made provision for the possessor of the property to be taken to have usucaped it successfully, if he could show that he would have usucaped the property had his possession of it not been interrupted. In this way usucaption became the dominant form of establishing ownership in Rome.\n"}
{"id": "48300594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48300594", "title": "Walter Kriege", "text": "Walter Kriege\n\nWalter Kriege (15 March 1891 – 1 December 1952) was German jurist who also had a political role in the 1940s.\n\nWalter Adolf Florens Hermann Kriege was born in Paraguay in 1891. His father, Johannes Kriege (1859-1937), was a German diplomat who during the early 1890s worked as the German Consul in Asunción.\n\nAfter taking part in the First World War Kriege completed his studies in jurisprudence at Berlin, where he obtained his doctorate. Between 1921 and 1923 he worked at the Reichsbank (German Central Bank). Between 1923 and 1944 he worked in the Prussian Justice Ministry, later transferring to the national State Justice Ministry. In April 1940 he was appointed Ministerial Director in the Justice Ministry, a post he retained till his arrest in July 1944. It subsequently emerged that a year after his appointment, on 23/24 April 1941, Kriege was one of several top government lawyers called to a special meeting at in Berlin at which participants were informed about the government's new (and subsequently controversial) Enforced Euthanasia policy. Between 1939 and 1944 Kriege also served as the president of the Senior Maritime Trophies Court (\"Oberprisenhof\").\n\nWalter Kriege was nominated a member of the planned Goerdeler as Secretary of State at the Justice Ministry or, according to another source, as Justice Minister. However, the planned government never came to power because the assassination plot against Germany's incumbent chancellor failed. Instead, Walter Kriege was arrested. Unlike many of those arrested at this time he was released a few months later, however, in November 1944.\n\nWar ended in May 1945 and what remained of Germany was divided into four occupation zones, each administered by one of the four principal victorious powers. Later, in May 1949, three of the four occupation zones would be bundled together and re-founded as the German Federal Republic (West Germany). Between 1946 and 1949 Walter Kriege worked as deputy president of the \"German Finance Council\", located within the US occupation zone at Stuttgart, also holding the directorship of the \"Finance Administration Office\" (\"Verwaltung für Finanzen\") which in 1949 would mutate into the West German Finance Ministry. With the foundation of West Germany the country's new Chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, was keen to appoint Walter Kriege as his Administrative Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. \n"}
{"id": "41798239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41798239", "title": "William Laud", "text": "William Laud\n\nWilliam Laud (7 October 1573 – 10 January 1645) was an English archbishop and academic. He was Archbishop of Canterbury from 1633, during the personal rule of Charles I. Arrested in 1640, he was executed in 1645.\n\nIn matters of church polity, Laud was autocratic. Laudianism refers to a collection of rules on matters of ritual, in particular, that were enforced by Laud in order to maintain uniform worship in England and Wales, in line with the king's preferences. They were precursors to later High Church views. In theology, Laud was accused of being an Arminian and opponent of Calvinism, as well as covertly favouring Roman Catholic doctrines (see Arminianism in the Church of England). On all three grounds, he was regarded by Puritan clerics and laymen as a formidable and dangerous opponent.\n\nLaud favoured scholars, and was a major collector of manuscripts. He pursued ecumenical contacts with the Greek Orthodox Church.\n\nThe pun \"give great praise to the Lord, and little Laud to the devil\" is a warning to King Charles attributed to Archibald Armstrong, the official court jester. Laud was known to be touchy about his diminutive stature.\n\nLaud was born at Reading, Berkshire on 7 October 1573, the only son of William Laud, a clothier, and Lucy, née Webbe, widow of John Robinson, another clothier of the town, and sister of William Webbe, Lord Mayor of London. He was educated at Reading School, and went in 1589 to St John's College, Oxford, matriculating on 17 October. In 1593 he became a fellow of the college. He graduated B.A. in 1594, M.A. in 1598, and D.D. in 1608. As an undergraduate Laud had for his tutor John Buckeridge, who became president of St John's College in 1605.\n\nLaud was ordained deacon on 4 January 1601, and priest on 5 April in the same year. On 4 May 1603, he was one of the proctors for the year.\n\nWhen Buckeridge left St John's in 1611, Laud succeeded him as President, but only after a hard patronage struggle reaching high court circles. The rival candidate, John Rawlinson, was chaplain to Lord Ellesmere, who was both Chancellor of the university and Lord Chancellor of England. Laud was chaplain to Richard Neile, who was Clerk of the Closet. Eventually King James brushed aside irregularities in the election, settling matters in Laud's favour.\n\nLaud became Dean of Gloucester in 1616. At Gloucester Cathedral he began ceremonial innovations with the communion table. By local custom, the table stood in the middle of the choir, as was then usual in a parish church, rather than at the east end as was typical of cathedrals. Laud believed he had the king's blessing to renovate and improve the run-down building, but he offended his bishop, Miles Smith.\n\nNeile was Laud's consistent patron. Neile attempted, but could not obtain, Laud's appointment as Dean of Westminster, a post that John Williams retained. But at the end of 1621, and despite the king's view of Laud as a troublemaker, Laud received the relatively lowly see as the Bishop of St David's.\n\nLaud became a confidant of George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham, at the end of the reign. The Buckingham household employed John Percy (\"alias\" Fisher), a Jesuit, as chaplain, and the king wished to counter well-founded rumours that Percy was making Catholic converts there. In a three-day series of private debates with Percy in 1622, Laud was introduced to argue the Protestant case on the final day; pamphlets followed. He then displaced John Preston as religious adviser to the Duke, a change that became clear around December 1624. Historians believe Laud had homosexual leanings, which he nevertheless seems to have managed discreetly. His private diary does contain evidence of erotic dreams he had about Buckingham and other men.\n\nLaud ascended rapidly to a position of influence in the period 1626 to 1628, advancing not alone but with a group of like-minded clerics who obtained bishoprics. In September 1626 he took the court position of Dean of the Chapel Royal, vacant by the death of Lancelot Andrewes. A few days later, Buckingham told him outright that he was to succeed as Archbishop of Canterbury, when George Abbot died. He immediately changed the Chapel services to privilege prayer over preaching, since King Charles's views were the opposite of his father's.\n\nIn July 1628 Laud was translated from Bath and Wells to become Bishop of London, in moves that followed on from the death of Andrewes. After this breakthrough in church politics, it becomes meaningful to define \"Laudians\" or \"Lauders\" as his followers.\n\nOn the political stage, the personal rule of Charles I began in 1629 and Laud shortly became a key part of it, in alliance with Thomas Wentworth. Historian Mark Perry argues that by 1626 in private consultations with the king and Buckingham, and in his public role in the House of Lords, Laud was a highly effective parliamentarian and a key adviser and policy-maker. Laud distrusted parliamentary bargaining, and was always determined to resist all encroachments upon the royal prerogative, especially in matters of taxation. His strong positions were the focus of attack during his trial in 1644. When Wentworth was posted to Ireland in 1632, Laud brought his personal correspondence from him rapidly to the king's attention. It is in this correspondence, in 1633, that the term \"Thorough\" appears. In practical terms it meant the pursuit of ambitious policy objectives, on behalf of the king, disregarding special interests, and, particularly, legalistic prevarications. There were opponents at court: Richard Weston, 1st Earl of Portland, Francis Cottington, 1st Baron Cottington and Queen Henrietta Maria. Cottington observed that Laud could not keep his temper in Council meetings, and by 1637 Laud found he could not follow Wentworth in imagining their push for rigid policies would succeed.\n\nLaud was almost 60 years old when he became archbishop and, having waited for a decade to replace George Abbot, was no longer prepared to compromise on any aspect of his policy. Abbot's chaplains had licensed \"Histriomastix\" for publication in 1630; the book which attacked English theatre and Christmas celebrations, among others, had caused scandal when it appeared in late 1632. One of Laud's early moves was to bring in his own men as censors: Samuel Baker (who was chaplain to William Juxon), William Bray and Matthew Weeks. The operations of the censors, including William Haywood who joined them, became a focus of the Long Parliament as soon as it was convened in November 1640, and Laud ultimately had to answer for Haywood at his own trial.\n\nWhereas Wentworth (who became the Earl of Strafford in early 1640) saw the political dangers of Puritanism, Laud saw the Calvinist movement's threat to the episcopacy. But the Puritans themselves felt threatened: the Counter-Reformation was succeeding abroad and Protestants were not winning the Thirty Years' War. In this climate, Laud's high church policy could be seen as sinister. A year after Laud's appointment as Archbishop of Canterbury, the ship \"Griffin\" left for America, carrying religious dissidents such as Anne Hutchinson, the Reverend John Lothropp and the Reverend Zechariah Symmes.\n\nLaud's desire to impose uniformity on the Church of England was driven by a belief that this was his office's duty, but his methods seemed persecution to those of differing views. Thus, they had the unintended consequence of garnering support for the most implacable opponents of the Anglican compromise. In 1637, \"Histriomastix's\" author, William Prynne, was convicted of seditious libel along with John Bastwick and Henry Burton, and had their ears cropped and faces branded. Prynne reinterpreted the \"SL\" (\"Seditious Libeller\") branded on his forehead as \"Stigmata Laudis\". Laud also moved to silence his critic among the bishops, John Williams, who was convicted of various offences in Star Chamber. Contrary to Laud's expectation, Williams refused to resign as Bishop of Lincoln, and the Lords forced his release, after which Williams supported the impeachment of both Strafford and Laud. Williams specifically urged the king not to commute Strafford's death sentence, and he was executed in 1641, months before Charles I promoted Williams to Archbishop of York (only to be re-imprisoned by Parliament and then join the King in Yorkshire upon his release).\n\nToward the end of his life, Charles I admitted that he had put too much trust in Laud, and allowed his \"peevish humours\" and obsession with points of ritual to inflame divisions within the Church: he warned his son not to rely entirely on anyone else's judgment in such matters. Laud, on his side, could not forgive the king for allowing Strafford's execution, and dismissed his royal master as \"a mild and gracious Prince, that knows not how to be or be made great\".\n\nThe Long Parliament of 1640 accused Laud of treason and, in the Grand Remonstrance of 1641, called for his imprisonment. Laud was imprisoned in the Tower of London, where he remained throughout the early stages of the English Civil War. Apart from a few personal enemies like William Prynne (and possibly Archbishop Williams), Parliament showed little anxiety to proceed against Laud; given his age, most members would probably have preferred to leave him to die of natural causes. In the spring of 1644 he was brought to trial which, however, ended without a verdict: as with Strafford, it proved impossible to point to any specific action which could be seen as treasonable. Parliament took up the issue and eventually passed a bill of attainder under which he was beheaded on 10 January 1645 on Tower Hill, notwithstanding being granted a royal pardon.\n\nLaud was buried in the chapel of St John's College, Oxford, his alma mater.\n\nLaud is remembered in the Anglican Communion with a commemoration on 10 January. His collected works in seven volumes were published between 1847 and 1860 in the \"Library of Anglo-Catholic Theology\".\n\nEmeritus Professor at Cambridge, Patrick Collinson, an expert in Elizabethan Puritans, in 1980 published this rebuke of Laud in his book on the decades until 1625: \"the greatest calamity ever visited upon the English Church\".\n\nIn September 2016, following King's School, Gloucester, Reading School named their newest students' division Laud House after him.\n\n\n\n"}
