{"id": "3302377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302377", "title": "A171 road", "text": "A171 road\n\nThe A171 is a road in England that links the North Yorkshire towns of Middlesbrough and Scarborough. Locally it is known as The Moor Road. The road is mostly single carriageway but has some sections of dual carriageway. The distance between the two towns is 47 miles (75 km)\n\n\nThe road starts on the A66 at Middlesbrough (South Bank) and heads south east through Ormesby to Nunthorpe where it turns east as a dual carriageway bypassing Guisborough and the road becomes single carriageway again. Just outside Guisborough it heads into the North York Moors National Park (forming its boundary at first). As it passes the village of Charltons, it rises up at a 15% incline through two 90° turns (the first east then the second south) up to Low Moor, this hill is named Birk Brow.\n\nThe road then wends its way through the open moorland of the North York Moors park past Scaling Dam and down into Whitby where it heads across Whitby new bridge. The bridge was built in 1980 at an projected cost of £1 million but the final amount was closer to £2 million.\n\nThe road then heads mostly in a south easterly direction out of Whitby bisecting Low & High Hawsker and then into open moorland again until it reaches the village of Cloughton where the National Park ends. It then heads due south through Burniston and Scalby before finishing in Scarborough at a junction with the A64 on Falsgrave Road.\n\nThe route is served by Arriva bus service X93. During the summer part of the timetable (which is the end of March to the start of November) the service is roughly one an hour in each direction.\n\nA Park and Ride facility was opened at the junction with the B1460 outside of Whitby in 2014. The park has space for 450 vehicles and buses run every 15 minutes to and from the town between the hours of 10 am and 7 pm.\n\nAt the roundabout junction with the A169 is a monument to the first German aircraft shot down over England in World War II. 3 Hawker Hurricane aircraft of 43 Squadron, RAF Acklington shot down a Heinkel He 111 at Bannial Flat Farm just north of what is now the two A roads junction.\n"}
{"id": "3127856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127856", "title": "A5112 road", "text": "A5112 road\n\nThe A5112 is a road in Shropshire, England that runs north-south through the town of Shrewsbury. It runs around the town centre, to the east, and acts as a quicker route through the town than going via the town centre.\n\nStarting north at Battlefield Island where it joins the A49 it consists of Battlefield Road, Whitchurch Road, Telford Way, Robertsford Way, Bage Way, Pritchard Way, Hazeldine Way and Hereford Road. The junctions along it are Battlefield Roundabout, Battlefield Road Crossroads, Harlescott Crossroads, Heathgates Roundabout, Telford Way Roundabout, Crowmere Roundabout, Rea Brook Roundabout, Sutton Park Roundabout, Meole Brace Island, Hereford Road Roundabout and \"Baileys\" Roundabout where it rejoins the A49, as well as the A5 \n\nThe road has a speed limit of between Meole Brace Island and the Telford Way Roundabout with a speed limit between the Telford Way Roundabout and the Heathgates Roundabout, and a speed limit for the remainder of the route. The road crosses the River Severn on Telford Way Bridge and is a safe route during flooding of the river.\n\nThe road was for a short time in the late 80's and early 90's the A49, which now runs around a bypass of the town.\n"}
{"id": "13989552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13989552", "title": "A586 road", "text": "A586 road\n\nThe A586 is a road in England, which runs from Garstang to Blackpool, in Lancashire. \n\nThe road runs a total distance of , in a roughly east-west direction, and is both urban and rural in character. It begins near Churchtown south of Garstang and just east of Catterall, as a junction on the A6 Preston Lancaster New Road, immediately to the north of Kirkland Bridge. It runs as a winding rural single-lane road south west to St Michael's on Wyre, where it crosses the River Wyre. Becoming Garstang Road, it runs west, bypassing Great Eccleston and Little Eccleston, and sharing with the A585 as Garstang New Road between Larbreck and Little Singleton, about past St Michael's On Wyre. This is a wider, straighter stretch of road. The road splits from the A585 after approximately , at the Five Lane Ends in Little Singleton, and enters the outskirts of Poulton-le-Fylde as Garstang Road East. From here, the road becomes progressively more urban. After , as Poulton Road it crosses the A587 at the Plymouth Road roundabout, and becomes Westcliffe Drive as it passes through Layton, and Talbot Road shortly after. The road continues as Talbot Road past Blackpool North railway station, and passes through the town centre one-way system, eventually terminating at Talbot Square where it meets the A584 and A583 next to the North Pier. \n"}
{"id": "4565922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565922", "title": "Abraham Cresques", "text": "Abraham Cresques\n\nAbraham Cresques (, 1325–1387), whose real name was Cresques (son of) Abraham, was a 14th-century Jewish cartographer from Palma, Majorca (then part of the Crown of Aragon). In collaboration with his son, Jehuda Cresques, Cresques is credited with the authorship of the celebrated Catalan Atlas of 1375.\n\nA Majorcan Jew, Cresques was a master map-maker and builder of clocks, compasses, and other nautical instruments. He was a leading member of the Majorcan cartographic school.\n\nAbraham Cresques's real name was Eliça (a.k.a. Cresques) son of Rabbi Abraham, son of Rabbi Benaviste, son of Rabbi Eliça. Eliça being the name he would have received when he came of age but known as Cresques of Abraham (Cresques being his personal name, Eliça his religious name, Abraham his patronym), but the order is often flipped in most subsequent literature. His son, Jehuda Cresques, was also a notable cartographer.\n\nIn 1375, Cresques and his son Jehuda received an assignment from Prince John of Aragon (the future John I of Aragon) to make a set of nautical charts which would go beyond the normal geographic range of contemporary portolan charts to cover the \"East and the West, and everything that, from the Strait [of Gibraltar] leads to the West\". For this job, Cresques and Jehuda would be paid 150 Aragonese golden florins, and 60 Mallorcan pounds, respectively, as it is stated in 14th-century documents from the Prince himself and his father Peter IV of Aragon. Prince John intended to present the chart to his cousin Charles (later to be Charles VI, King of France) as a gift. In that year 1375 Cresques and Jehuda drew the six charts that composed the Catalan Atlas at their house in the Jewish quarter of Palma.\n\nThe Catalan Atlas of c. 1375 is the only map that has been confidently attributed to Cresques Abraham. But researchers have suggested that five other existing maps might also be attributed to Cresques, Jehuda or some other worker in the Cresques atelier. Like the Catalan Atlas itself, these five maps (four portolan charts, one fragment of a mappa mundi), are unsigned and undated, and their date of composition estimated sometime between 1375 and 1400.\n\n\nAccording to Campbell, of the four portolan charts attributed the Cresques atelier, the Naples and Paris charts are more ornate than the other two, with the Paris chart (c. 1400) in particular seeming closest to the features of the Catalan Atlas (c. 1375). However, attribution to the Cresques workshop is only tentative. As Campbell notes, \"That this group of charts is closely related is clear. But it is hard to see, from the colour analysis alone, evidence to confirm that these four charts were the product of supervised work in a single atelier.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5100891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5100891", "title": "Abyss (religion)", "text": "Abyss (religion)\n\nIn religion, an abyss is a bottomless pit, or also a chasm that may lead to the underworld or hell. \n\nIn the Septuagint, or Greek version of the Hebrew Bible, the word represents both the original unfinished creation () and the Hebrew \"tehom\" (\"a surging water-deep\"), which is used also in apocalyptic and kabbalistic literature and in the New Testament for hell; the place of punishment; in the Revised version of the Bible \"abyss\" is generally used for this idea. Primarily in the Septuagint cosmography the word is applied both to the waters under the earth which originally covered it, and from which the springs and rivers are supplied and to the waters of the firmament which were regarded as closely connected with those below.\n\nIn Psalm 42 verse 7, \"Deep calls to deep\" (referring to the waters) renders the Latin \"Abyssus abyssum invocat\", developing the theme of the longing of the soul for God. Cassiodorus relates this passage to the mutual witness of the two Testaments, the Old Testament foretelling the New, and the New Testament fulfilling the Old.\n\nIn the Parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus there is an abyss between the righteous dead and the wicked dead in Sheol.\n\nIn the Book of Revelation, Abaddon is called \"the angel of the abyss\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23824931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23824931", "title": "Addresses in South Korea", "text": "Addresses in South Korea\n\nAddresses in South Korea are used to identify specific locations within the country. South Korea has replaced its land lot-based address system with one based on street names. The switching of the address system is to make it easier for foreigners as well as Koreans to find their destinations. The current official system, the Road Name Address system rolled out on July 29, 2011, uses street names and building numbers, and is similar to the systems used by the United States, Canada, and Europe. The previous system was the land-lot based address, which is also used in Japan and North Korea, but not within the Chinese-speaking world. Although still commonly used, it has been officially decommissioned since December 31, 2013.\n\nThe current system used in South Korea is similar to that used by most countries around the world. \n\nKorean streets have names, typically ending in \"-daero\" (대로, 大路, Blvd), \"-ro\" (로, 路, Rd) or -\"gil\" (길, 街, St) and they are distinguished by width; \"-daero\" (over 8 lanes), \"-ro\" (2~7 lanes), \"-gil\" (others). \n\nSome of streets, mainly \"-daero\" and \"-ro\", may be named after a feature in the area such as \"Daehak-ro\"(대학로, University Street) near a university, or after the neighborhood (\"dong\") in which they lie such as \"Hyehwa-ro\"(혜화로, Hyehwa Street) which lies in Hyehwa-dong. Street names may be unique, or, in a convention which may seem confusing to foreigners, the same name can be re-used for several streets in the same area, with each street having a unique number. \n\nOther streets, mainly \"-gil\", may be named after the street name it diverges from with a systematic number. There are three different types of numbering rules: basic numbering, serial numbering and other numbering. The purpose of numbering streets is to make street names easier to predict position of it so address users find their destination streets or buildings easily on the maps or the streets. \n\nFirst, by basic numbering, which is used in most of Gyeonggi Province, a number is assigned to \"-gil\" diverging from -\"daero\" or \"-ro\" based on the basic number of the position diverging from \"-daero\" or \"-ro\". Since the basic number increases by 2 every 20 meters, the basic number multiplied by 10 meters comes to the distance from the start point of the street to the current position. For example, Nongol-ro 10beon-gil (논골로10번길) indicates that the street diverges from Nongol-ro (논골로) and the diverging position is about 100 meters away from the start point of Nongol-ro. Since 10 is even number, the street towards right side of Nongol-ro. Note that basic numbered street names have \"beon-gil\" (번길) after their numbers, which indicates basic number. \n\nSecond, by serial numbering, which is used in Seoul, a serial number is assigned to \"-gil\" diverging from -\"daero\" or \"-ro\", based on \"-daero\" or \"-ro\" number order. For example, if a street is the first one among streets diverging from Daehak-ro, it becomes Daehak-ro 1-gil (대학로1길). If a street is 4th among streets diverging from Daehak-ro, it becomes Daehak-ro 4-gil (대학로4길). Since 4 is even number, the street towards right side of Daehak-ro. Note that basic numbered street names do not have \"beon\" after their numbers, which indicates serial number.\n\nThird, by other numbering, a serial number is assigned to \"-ro\" or \"-gil\" reflecting local characteristics.\nStreets diverging from \"-gil\" are named after \"-gil\" with the diverging \"-gil\" with the additional number in Korean alphabet: ga (가), na (나), da (다), ra (라), ma (마) ... For example, the third diverging street of Daehak-ro 4-gil (대학로4길) would be Daehak-ro 4da-gil (대학로4다길). This secondary diverging numbering is applied to all of the numbering rules.\n\nBuilding number is based on basic number, a virtual number that increases by 2 every 20 meters along a street with odd numbers on the left side and even numbers on the right side, as in most European countries. The building number is assigned to the basic number of a position of the main gate adjacent to the street. For example, if a building has three entrances and the main one is adjacent to Sejong-ro 2-gil, and its position is about 30m away from the start point of the left side of Sejong-ro 2-gil, the building number would be 3, and the road name address of the building will be 3, Sejong-ro 2-gil (세종로2길 3). \n\nHyphenated building numbers indicate that the house or building is on a street or alley that is too small or too short to receive a name of its own. Instead all buildings on this street or alley (or network of small alleys) share the same building number, followed by a hyphen, followed by a unique number afterwards. For example, if a network of small alleys branched off from basic number 12, then the buildings in that network of alleys would have addresses such as 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 etc. Hyphenated building numbers also are used, in the case of several buildings in one basic interval (see 11, 11-1 and 11-2.)\n\nAn address written using this street address is similar to the previous system when it is written in Korean in that the largest entity is written first, and the recipient is written last. The district (\"gu\") is generally included before the street name, and the neighborhood, city block, and building number (within the city block) are not included.\n\nJust as in the East Asian system, different administrative divisions may be listed before the street name to make the location clear (for example, the province and city). If problems may arise with the Road Name Address system due to its relative newness, the traditional address may be included in parentheses afterwards. For example, Korea Post gives its address as 서울특별시 종로구 종로 6 (서린동 154-1) (Seoul Special City, Jongno-gu, Jong-no 6 (Seorin-dong 154-1)).\n\nA typical building in South Korea is described by the administrative divisions in which it lies. If the address is written in Korean, the largest division will be written first, followed by the smaller divisions, and finally the building and the recipient. If the recipient is in a multi-unit building, the floor and apartment or suite number may follow. \n\nA typical building in Seoul, for example, belongs to Seoul Metropolitan City, a particular ward (\"gu\", 구, 區), and a neighborhood (\"dong\", 동, 洞) within that ward. (Neighborhood names that include numbers, such as Seocho 2-dong (서초2동) in the example below, indicate that the neighborhood was once part of a larger neighborhood that was divided for administrative purposes, possibly because the original neighborhood's population grew too large for a single neighborhood.) Each neighborhood is divided into city blocks (\"beonji\", 번지, 番地), which can range from several dozen to several thousand per neighborhood. The building itself is given a building number (\"ho\", 호, 戶) within the city block. (Usually, the words \"번지\" and \"호\" are not included in the written address; instead, only their numbers, separated by a hyphen, are written.) If the building has a name, then the city block and building numbers may in some cases be omitted, or the name may follow these numbers. After the building name or number, the floor (\"cheung\", 층, 層) may be written, followed by the apartment or suite number (\"ho\", 호, 號) and, finally, the recipient.\n\nBelow is a fictitious example of an address in Seoul. Note that the neighborhood, Seocho 2-dong, includes a number and was probably split from Seocho-dong. Also, the words \"번지\" and \"호\" are omitted, and only their numbers are written, separated by a hyphen. There is no line convention for addresses written in Korean, and the entire address may be written in one line on the envelope.\n\nOther administrative divisions found in South Korean addresses are provinces, metropolitan cities, cities, counties, towns, townships, and villages. A Korean address written using the East Asian system uses between two and four of the aforementioned administrative divisions, in addition to the city block and building numbers, to describe the building's location (the example above uses three: special city, ward, and neighborhood).\n\nWhen written in the Latin alphabet, the order is reversed so that the recipient is first and the city is last. Note that \"gu\" and \"dong\" are written in lower-case and connected with a hyphen, and that they are not translated into English. Also, SOUTH KOREA is added afterwards (always in English) for international mail. The recipient's family name may be capitalized to avoid ambiguity. It should also be noted that there is no official convention for South Korean addresses written in the Latin alphabet, and addresses are written in many ways. Mail carriers, however, are trained to interpret various formats, and should have little trouble delivering mail, especially if the postal code is included.\n\n"}
{"id": "5334607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334607", "title": "Africa", "text": "Africa\n\nAfrica is the world's second largest and second most-populous continent (behind Asia in both categories). At about 30.3 million km (11.7 million square miles) including adjacent islands, it covers 6% of Earth's total surface area and 20% of its land area. With\n/1e9 round 1 billion people as of , it accounts for about 16% of the world's human population. The continent is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea to the northeast, the Indian Ocean to the southeast and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. The continent includes Madagascar and various archipelagos. It contains 54 fully recognised sovereign states (countries), nine territories and two \"de facto\" independent states with limited or no recognition. The majority of the continent and its countries are in the Northern Hemisphere, with a substantial portion and number of countries in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nAfrica's average population is the youngest amongst all the continents; the median age in 2012 was 19.7, when the worldwide median age was 30.4. Algeria is Africa's largest country by area, and Nigeria is its largest by population. Africa, particularly central Eastern Africa, is widely accepted as the place of origin of humans and the Hominidae clade (great apes), as evidenced by the discovery of the earliest hominids and their ancestors as well as later ones that have been dated to around 7 million years ago, including \"Sahelanthropus tchadensis\", \"Australopithecus africanus\", \"A. afarensis\", \"Homo erectus\", \"H. habilis\" and \"H. ergaster\"—the earliest \"Homo sapiens\" (modern human), found in Ethiopia, date to circa 200,000 years ago. Africa straddles the equator and encompasses numerous climate areas; it is the only continent to stretch from the northern temperate to southern temperate zones.\n\nAfrica hosts a large diversity of ethnicities, cultures and languages. In the late 19th century, European countries colonised almost all of Africa; most present states in Africa originated from a process of decolonisation in the 20th century. African nations cooperate through the establishment of the African Union, which is headquartered in Addis Ababa.\n\n\"Afri\" was a Latin name used to refer to the inhabitants of then-known northern Africa to the west of the Nile river, and in its widest sense referred to all lands south of the Mediterranean (Ancient Libya). This name seems to have originally referred to a native Libyan tribe, an ancestor of modern Berbers; see Terence for discussion. The name had usually been connected with the Phoenician word \"\" meaning \"dust\", but a 1981 hypothesis has asserted that it stems from the Berber word \"ifri\" (plural \"ifran\") meaning \"cave\", in reference to cave dwellers. The same word may be found in the name of the Banu Ifran from Algeria and Tripolitania, a Berber tribe originally from Yafran (also known as \"Ifrane\") in northwestern Libya.\n\nUnder Roman rule, Carthage became the capital of the province it then named \"Africa Proconsularis\", following its defeat of the Carthaginians in the Third Punic War in 146 BC, which also included the coastal part of modern Libya. The Latin suffix \"-ica\" can sometimes be used to denote a land (e.g., in \"Celtica\" from \"Celtae\", as used by Julius Caesar). The later Muslim region of Ifriqiya, following its conquest of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire's \"Exarchatus Africae\", also preserved a form of the name.\n\nAccording to the Romans, Africa lay to the west of Egypt, while \"Asia\" was used to refer to Anatolia and lands to the east. A definite line was drawn between the two continents by the geographer Ptolemy (85–165 AD), indicating Alexandria along the Prime Meridian and making the isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea the boundary between Asia and Africa. As Europeans came to understand the real extent of the continent, the idea of \"Africa\" expanded with their knowledge.\n\nOther etymological hypotheses have been postulated for the ancient name \"Africa\":\n\nAfrica is considered by most paleoanthropologists to be the oldest inhabited territory on Earth, with the human species originating from the continent. During the mid-20th century, anthropologists discovered many fossils and evidence of human occupation perhaps as early as 7 million years ago (BP=before present). Fossil remains of several species of early apelike humans thought to have evolved into modern man, such as \"Australopithecus afarensis\" (radiometrically dated to approximately 3.9–3.0 million years BP, \"Paranthropus boisei\" (c. 2.3–1.4 million years BP) and \"Homo ergaster\" (c. 1.9 million–600,000 years BP) have been discovered.\n\nAfter the evolution of \"Homo sapiens sapiens\" approximately 150,000 to 100,000 years BP in Africa, the continent was mainly populated by groups of hunter-gatherers. These first modern humans left Africa and populated the rest of the globe during the Out of Africa II migration dated to approximately 50,000 years BP, exiting the continent either across Bab-el-Mandeb over the Red Sea, the Strait of Gibraltar in Morocco, or the Isthmus of Suez in Egypt.\n\nOther migrations of modern humans within the African continent have been dated to that time, with evidence of early human settlement found in Southern Africa, Southeast Africa, North Africa, and the Sahara.\n\nThe size of the Sahara has historically been extremely variable, with its area rapidly fluctuating and at times disappearing depending on global climatic conditions. At the end of the Ice ages, estimated to have been around 10,500 BC, the Sahara had again become a green fertile valley, and its African populations returned from the interior and coastal highlands in Sub-Saharan Africa, with rock art paintings depicting a fertile Sahara and large populations discovered in Tassili n'Ajjer dating back perhaps 10 millennia. However, the warming and drying climate meant that by 5000 BC, the Sahara region was becoming increasingly dry and hostile. Around 3500 BC, due to a tilt in the earth's orbit, the Sahara experienced a period of rapid desertification. The population trekked out of the Sahara region towards the Nile Valley below the Second Cataract where they made permanent or semi-permanent settlements. A major climatic recession occurred, lessening the heavy and persistent rains in Central and Eastern Africa. Since this time, dry conditions have prevailed in Eastern Africa and, increasingly during the last 200 years, in Ethiopia.\n\nThe domestication of cattle in Africa preceded agriculture and seems to have existed alongside hunter-gatherer cultures. It is speculated that by 6000 BC, cattle were domesticated in North Africa. In the Sahara-Nile complex, people domesticated many animals, including the donkey and a small screw-horned goat which was common from Algeria to Nubia.\n\nAround 4000 BC, the Saharan climate started to become drier at an exceedingly fast pace. This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink significantly and caused increasing desertification. This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and helped to cause migrations of farming communities to the more tropical climate of West Africa.\n\nBy the first millennium BC, ironworking had been introduced in Northern Africa and quickly spread across the Sahara into the northern parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and by 500 BC, metalworking began to become commonplace in West Africa. Ironworking was fully established by roughly 500 BC in many areas of East and West Africa, although other regions didn't begin ironworking until the early centuries AD. Copper objects from Egypt, North Africa, Nubia, and Ethiopia dating from around 500 BC have been excavated in West Africa, suggesting that Trans-Saharan trade networks had been established by this date.\n\nAt about 3300 BC, the historical record opens in Northern Africa with the rise of literacy in the Pharaonic civilization of Ancient Egypt. One of the world's earliest and longest-lasting civilizations, the Egyptian state continued, with varying levels of influence over other areas, until 343 BC. Egyptian influence reached deep into modern-day Libya and Nubia, and, according to Martin Bernal, as far north as Crete.\n\nAn independent centre of civilization with trading links to Phoenicia was established by Phoenicians from Tyre on the north-west African coast at Carthage.\n\nEuropean exploration of Africa began with Ancient Greeks and Romans. In 332 BC, Alexander the Great was welcomed as a liberator in Persian-occupied Egypt. He founded Alexandria in Egypt, which would become the prosperous capital of the Ptolemaic dynasty after his death.\n\nFollowing the conquest of North Africa's Mediterranean coastline by the Roman Empire, the area was integrated economically and culturally into the Roman system. Roman settlement occurred in modern Tunisia and elsewhere along the coast. The first Roman emperor native to North Africa was Septimius Severus, born in Leptis Magna in present-day Libya—his mother was Italian Roman and his father was Punic.\n\nChristianity spread across these areas at an early date, from Judaea via Egypt and beyond the borders of the Roman world into Nubia; by AD 340 at the latest, it had become the state religion of the Aksumite Empire. Syro-Greek missionaries, who arrived by way of the Red Sea, were responsible for this theological development.\n\nIn the early 7th century, the newly formed Arabian Islamic Caliphate expanded into Egypt, and then into North Africa. In a short while, the local Berber elite had been integrated into Muslim Arab tribes. When the Umayyad capital Damascus fell in the 8th century, the Islamic centre of the Mediterranean shifted from Syria to Qayrawan in North Africa. Islamic North Africa had become diverse, and a hub for mystics, scholars, jurists, and philosophers. During the above-mentioned period, Islam spread to sub-Saharan Africa, mainly through trade routes and migration.\n\nPre-colonial Africa possessed perhaps as many as 10,000 different states and polities characterized by many different sorts of political organization and rule. These included small family groups of hunter-gatherers such as the San people of southern Africa; larger, more structured groups such as the family clan groupings of the Bantu-speaking peoples of central, southern, and eastern Africa; heavily structured clan groups in the Horn of Africa; the large Sahelian kingdoms; and autonomous city-states and kingdoms such as those of the Akan; Edo, Yoruba, and Igbo people in West Africa; and the Swahili coastal trading towns of Southeast Africa.\n\nBy the ninth century AD, a string of dynastic states, including the earliest Hausa states, stretched across the sub-Saharan savannah from the western regions to central Sudan. The most powerful of these states were Ghana, Gao, and the Kanem-Bornu Empire. Ghana declined in the eleventh century, but was succeeded by the Mali Empire which consolidated much of western Sudan in the thirteenth century. Kanem accepted Islam in the eleventh century.\n\nIn the forested regions of the West African coast, independent kingdoms grew with little influence from the Muslim north. The Kingdom of Nri was established around the ninth century and was one of the first. It is also one of the oldest kingdoms in present-day Nigeria and was ruled by the Eze Nri. The Nri kingdom is famous for its elaborate bronzes, found at the town of Igbo-Ukwu. The bronzes have been dated from as far back as the ninth century.\nThe Kingdom of Ife, historically the first of these Yoruba city-states or kingdoms, established government under a priestly oba ('king' or 'ruler' in the Yoruba language), called the \"Ooni of Ife\". Ife was noted as a major religious and cultural centre in West Africa, and for its unique naturalistic tradition of bronze sculpture. The Ife model of government was adapted at the Oyo Empire, where its obas or kings, called the \"Alaafins of Oyo\", once controlled a large number of other Yoruba and non-Yoruba city-states and kingdoms; the Fon \"Kingdom of Dahomey\" was one of the non-Yoruba domains under Oyo control.\n\nThe Almoravids were a Berber dynasty from the Sahara that spread over a wide area of northwestern Africa and the Iberian peninsula during the eleventh century. The Banu Hilal and Banu Ma'qil were a collection of Arab Bedouin tribes from the Arabian Peninsula who migrated westwards via Egypt between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. Their migration resulted in the fusion of the Arabs and Berbers, where the locals were Arabized, and Arab culture absorbed elements of the local culture, under the unifying framework of Islam.\nFollowing the breakup of Mali, a local leader named Sonni Ali (1464–1492) founded the Songhai Empire in the region of middle Niger and the western Sudan and took control of the trans-Saharan trade. Sonni Ali seized Timbuktu in 1468 and Jenne in 1473, building his regime on trade revenues and the cooperation of Muslim merchants. His successor Askia Mohammad I (1493–1528) made Islam the official religion, built mosques, and brought to Gao Muslim scholars, including al-Maghili (d.1504), the founder of an important tradition of Sudanic African Muslim scholarship. By the eleventh century, some Hausa states – such as Kano, jigawa, Katsina, and Gobir – had developed into walled towns engaging in trade, servicing caravans, and the manufacture of goods. Until the fifteenth century, these small states were on the periphery of the major Sudanic empires of the era, paying tribute to Songhai to the west and Kanem-Borno to the east.\n\nSlavery had long been practiced in Africa. Between the 7th and 20th centuries, the Arab slave trade (also known as \"slavery in the east\") took 18 million slaves from Africa via trans-Saharan and Indian Ocean routes. Between the 15th and the 19th centuries, the Atlantic slave trade took an estimated 7–12 million slaves to the New World. In addition, more than 1 million Europeans were captured by Barbary pirates and sold as slaves in North Africa between the 16th and 19th centuries.\n\nIn West Africa, the decline of the Atlantic slave trade in the 1820s caused dramatic economic shifts in local polities. The gradual decline of slave-trading, prompted by a lack of demand for slaves in the New World, increasing anti-slavery legislation in Europe and America, and the British Royal Navy's increasing presence off the West African coast, obliged African states to adopt new economies. Between 1808 and 1860, the British West Africa Squadron seized approximately 1,600 slave ships and freed 150,000 Africans who were aboard.\nAction was also taken against African leaders who refused to agree to British treaties to outlaw the trade, for example against \"the usurping King of Lagos\", deposed in 1851. Anti-slavery treaties were signed with over 50 African rulers. The largest powers of West Africa (the Asante Confederacy, the Kingdom of Dahomey, and the Oyo Empire) adopted different ways of adapting to the shift. Asante and Dahomey concentrated on the development of \"legitimate commerce\" in the form of palm oil, cocoa, timber and gold, forming the bedrock of West Africa's modern export trade. The Oyo Empire, unable to adapt, collapsed into civil wars.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the European imperial powers engaged in a major territorial scramble and occupied most of the continent, creating many colonial territories, and leaving only two fully independent states: Ethiopia (known to Europeans as \"Abyssinia\"), and Liberia. Egypt and Sudan were never formally incorporated into any European colonial empire; however, after the British occupation of 1882, Egypt was effectively under British administration until 1922.\n\nThe Berlin Conference held in 1884–85 was an important event in the political future of African ethnic groups. It was convened by King Leopold II of Belgium, and attended by the European powers that laid claim to African territories. The Berlin Conference sought to end the European powers' Scramble for Africa, by agreeing on political division and spheres of influence. They set up the political divisions of the continent, by spheres of interest, that exist in Africa today.\n\nImperial rule by Europeans would continue until after the conclusion of World War II, when almost all remaining colonial territories gradually obtained formal independence. Independence movements in Africa gained momentum following World War II, which left the major European powers weakened. In 1951, Libya, a former Italian colony, gained independence. In 1956, Tunisia and Morocco won their independence from France. Ghana followed suit the next year (March 1957), becoming the first of the sub-Saharan colonies to be granted independence. Most of the rest of the continent became independent over the next decade.\n\nPortugal's overseas presence in Sub-Saharan Africa (most notably in Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and São Tomé and Príncipe) lasted from the 16th century to 1975, after the Estado Novo regime was overthrown in a military coup in Lisbon. Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence from the United Kingdom in 1965, under the white minority government of Ian Smith, but was not internationally recognized as an independent state (as Zimbabwe) until 1980, when black nationalists gained power after a bitter guerrilla war. Although South Africa was one of the first African countries to gain independence, the state remained under the control of the country's white minority through a system of racial segregation known as apartheid until 1994.\n\nToday, Africa contains 54 sovereign countries, most of which have borders that were drawn during the era of European colonialism. Since colonialism, African states have frequently been hampered by instability, corruption, violence, and authoritarianism. The vast majority of African states are republics that operate under some form of the presidential system of rule. However, few of them have been able to sustain democratic governments on a permanent basis, and many have instead cycled through a series of coups, producing military dictatorships.\n\nGreat instability was mainly the result of marginalization of ethnic groups, and graft under these leaders. For political gain, many leaders fanned ethnic conflicts, some of which had been exacerbated, or even created, by colonial rule. In many countries, the military was perceived as being the only group that could effectively maintain order, and it ruled many nations in Africa during the 1970s and early 1980s. During the period from the early 1960s to the late 1980s, Africa had more than 70 coups and 13 presidential assassinations. Border and territorial disputes were also common, with the European-imposed borders of many nations being widely contested through armed conflicts.\n\nCold War conflicts between the United States and the Soviet Union, as well as the policies of the International Monetary Fund, also played a role in instability. When a country became independent for the first time, it was often expected to align with one of the two superpowers. Many countries in Northern Africa received Soviet military aid, while others in Central and Southern Africa were supported by the United States, France or both. The 1970s saw an escalation of Cold War intrigues, as newly independent Angola and Mozambique aligned themselves with the Soviet Union, and the West and South Africa sought to contain Soviet influence by supporting friendly regimes or insurgency movements. In Rhodesia, Soviet and Chinese-backed leftist guerrillas of the Zimbabwe Patriotic Front waged a brutal guerrilla war against the country's white government. There was a major famine in Ethiopia, when hundreds of thousands of people starved. Some claimed that Marxist economic policies made the situation worse. The most devastating military conflict in modern independent Africa has been the Second Congo War; this conflict and its aftermath has killed an estimated 5.5 million people. Since 2003 there has been an ongoing conflict in Darfur which has become a humanitarian disaster. Another notable tragic event is the 1994 Rwandan Genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were murdered. AIDS in post-colonial Africa has also been a prevalent issue.\n\nIn the 21st century, however, the number of armed conflicts in Africa has steadily declined. For instance, the civil war in Angola came to an end in 2002 after nearly 30 years. This coincided with many countries abandoning communist-style command economies and opening up for market reforms. The improved stability and economic reforms have led to a great increase in foreign investment into many African nations, mainly from China, which has spurred quick economic growth in many countries, seemingly ending decades of stagnation and decline. Several African economies are among the world's fastest growing . A significant part of this growth, which is sometimes referred to as Africa Rising, can also be attributed to the facilitated diffusion of information technologies and specifically the mobile telephone. Migration from African nations has increased dramatically in the last decade.\n\nAfrica is the largest of the three great southward projections from the largest landmass of the Earth. Separated from Europe by the Mediterranean Sea, it is joined to Asia at its northeast extremity by the Isthmus of Suez (transected by the Suez Canal), wide. (Geopolitically, Egypt's Sinai Peninsula east of the Suez Canal is often considered part of Africa, as well.)\n\nThe coastline is long, and the absence of deep indentations of the shore is illustrated by the fact that Europe, which covers only – about a third of the surface of Africa – has a coastline of . From the most northerly point, Ras ben Sakka in Tunisia (37°21' N), to the most southerly point, Cape Agulhas in South Africa (34°51'15\" S), is a distance of approximately . Cape Verde, 17°33'22\" W, the westernmost point, is a distance of approximately to Ras Hafun, 51°27'52\" E, the most easterly projection that neighbours Cape Guardafui, the tip of the Horn of Africa.\n\nAfrica's largest country is Algeria, and its smallest country is Seychelles, an archipelago off the east coast. The smallest nation on the continental mainland is The Gambia.\n\nThe African Plate is a major tectonic plate straddling the equator as well as the prime meridian. It includes much of the continent of Africa, as well as oceanic crust which lies between the continent and various surrounding ocean ridges. Between and , the Somali Plate began rifting from the African Plate along the East African Rift. Since the continent of Africa consists of crust from both the African and the Somali plates, some literature refers to the African Plate as the \"Nubian Plate\" to distinguish it from the continent as a whole.\n\nGeologically, Africa includes the Arabian Peninsula; the Zagros Mountains of Iran and the Anatolian Plateau of Turkey mark where the African Plate collided with Eurasia. The Afrotropic ecozone and the Saharo-Arabian desert to its north unite the region biogeographically, and the Afro-Asiatic language family unites the north linguistically.\n\nThe climate of Africa ranges from tropical to subarctic on its highest peaks. Its northern half is primarily desert, or arid, while its central and southern areas contain both savanna plains and dense jungle (rainforest) regions. In between, there is a convergence, where vegetation patterns such as sahel and steppe dominate. Africa is the hottest continent on earth and 60% of the entire land surface consists of drylands and deserts. The record for the highest-ever recorded temperature, in Libya in 1922 (), was discredited in 2013.\n\nAfrica boasts perhaps the world's largest combination of density and \"range of freedom\" of wild animal populations and diversity, with wild populations of large carnivores (such as lions, hyenas, and cheetahs) and herbivores (such as buffalo, elephants, camels, and giraffes) ranging freely on primarily open non-private plains. It is also home to a variety of \"jungle\" animals including snakes and primates and aquatic life such as crocodiles and amphibians. In addition, Africa has the largest number of megafauna species, as it was least affected by the extinction of the Pleistocene megafauna.\n\nAfrica has over 3,000 protected areas, with 198 marine protected areas, 50 biosphere reserves, and 80 wetlands reserves. Significant habitat destruction, increases in human population and poaching are reducing Africa's biological diversity and arable land. Human encroachment, civil unrest and the introduction of non-native species threaten biodiversity in Africa. This has been exacerbated by administrative problems, inadequate personnel and funding problems.\n\nDeforestation is affecting Africa at twice the world rate, according to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). According to the University of Pennsylvania African Studies Center, 31% of Africa's pasture lands and 19% of its forests and woodlands are classified as degraded, and Africa is losing over four million hectares of forest per year, which is twice the average deforestation rate for the rest of the world. Some sources claim that approximately 90% of the original, virgin forests in West Africa have been destroyed. Over 90% of Madagascar's original forests have been destroyed since the arrival of humans 2000 years ago. About 65% of Africa's agricultural land suffers from soil degradation.\n\nThere are clear signs of increased networking among African organizations and states. For example, in the civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (former Zaire), rather than rich, non-African countries intervening, neighbouring African countries became involved (see also Second Congo War). Since the conflict began in 1998, the estimated death toll has reached 5 million.\n\nThe African Union (AU) is a 55-member federation consisting of all of Africa's states. The union was formed, with Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as its headquarters, on 26 June 2001. The union was officially established on 9 July 2002 as a successor to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). In July 2004, the African Union's Pan-African Parliament (PAP) was relocated to Midrand, in South Africa, but the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights remained in Addis Ababa. There is a policy in effect to decentralize the African Federation's institutions so that they are shared by all the states.\n\nThe African Union, not to be confused with the AU Commission, is formed by the Constitutive Act of the African Union, which aims to transform the African Economic Community, a federated commonwealth, into a state under established international conventions. The African Union has a parliamentary government, known as the African Union Government, consisting of legislative, judicial and executive organs. It is led by the African Union President and Head of State, who is also the President of the Pan-African Parliament. A person becomes AU President by being elected to the PAP, and subsequently gaining majority support in the PAP. The powers and authority of the President of the African Parliament derive from the Constitutive Act and the Protocol of the Pan-African Parliament, as well as the inheritance of presidential authority stipulated by African treaties and by international treaties, including those subordinating the Secretary General of the OAU Secretariat (AU Commission) to the PAP. The government of the AU consists of all-union (federal), regional, state, and municipal authorities, as well as hundreds of institutions, that together manage the day-to-day affairs of the institution.\n\nPolitical associations such as the African Union offer hope for greater co-operation and peace between the continent's many countries. Extensive human rights abuses still occur in several parts of Africa, often under the oversight of the state. Most of such violations occur for political reasons, often as a side effect of civil war. Countries where major human rights violations have been reported in recent times include the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Sudan, Zimbabwe, and Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nAlthough it has abundant natural resources, Africa remains the world's poorest and most underdeveloped continent, the result of a variety of causes that may include corrupt governments that have often committed serious human rights violations, failed central planning, high levels of illiteracy, lack of access to foreign capital, and frequent tribal and military conflict (ranging from guerrilla warfare to genocide). According to the United Nations' Human Development Report in 2003, the bottom 24 ranked nations (151st to 175th) were all African.\n\nPoverty, illiteracy, malnutrition and inadequate water supply and sanitation, as well as poor health, affect a large proportion of the people who reside in the African continent. In August 2008, the World Bank announced revised global poverty estimates based on a new international poverty line of $1.25 per day (versus the previous measure of $1.00). 81% of the Sub-Saharan Africa population was living on less than $2.50 (PPP) per day in 2005, compared with 86% for India.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa is the least successful region of the world in reducing poverty ($1.25 per day); some 50% of the population living in poverty in 1981 (200 million people), a figure that rose to 58% in 1996 before dropping to 50% in 2005 (380 million people). The average poor person in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated to live on only 70 cents per day, and was poorer in 2003 than in 1973, indicating increasing poverty in some areas. Some of it is attributed to unsuccessful economic liberalization programmes spearheaded by foreign companies and governments, but other studies have cited bad domestic government policies more than external factors.\n\nAfrica is now at risk of being in debt once again, particularly in Sub-Saharan African countries.  The last debt crisis in 2005 was resolved with help from the heavily indebted poor countries scheme (HIPC).  The HIPC resulted in some positive and negative effects on the economy in Africa. About ten years after the 2005 debt crisis in Sub-Saharan Africa was resolved, Zambia fell back into dept.  A small reason was due to the fall in copper prices in 2011, but the bigger reason was that a large amount of the money Zambia borrowed was wasted or pocketed by the elite.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Africa's rate of economic growth increased, averaging 5% in 2005. Some countries experienced still higher growth rates, notably Angola, Sudan and Equatorial Guinea, all of which had recently begun extracting their petroleum reserves or had expanded their oil extraction capacity.\n\nIn a recently published analysis based on World Values Survey data, the Austrian political scientist Arno Tausch maintained that several African countries, most notably Ghana, perform quite well on scales of mass support for democracy and the market economy.\n\nTausch's global value comparison based on the World Values Survey derived the following factor analytical scales: 1. The non-violent and law-abiding society 2. Democracy movement 3. Climate of personal non-violence 4. Trust in institutions 5. Happiness, good health 6. No redistributive religious fundamentalism 7. Accepting the market 8. Feminism 9. Involvement in politics 10. Optimism and engagement 11. No welfare mentality, acceptancy of the Calvinist work ethics. The spread in the performance of African countries with complete data, Tausch concluded “is really amazing”. While one should be especially hopeful about the development of future democracy and the market economy in Ghana, the article suggests pessimistic tendencies for Egypt and Algeria, and especially for Africa's leading economy, South Africa. High Human Inequality, as measured by the UNDP’s Human Development Report’s Index of Human Inequality, further impairs the development of Human Security. Tausch also maintains that the certain recent optimism, corresponding to economic and human rights data, emerging from Africa, is reflected in the development of a civil society.\n\nThe continent is believed to hold 90% of the world's cobalt, 90% of its platinum, 50% of its gold, 98% of its chromium, 70% of its tantalite, 64% of its manganese and one-third of its uranium. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) has 70% of the world's coltan, a mineral used in the production of tantalum capacitors for electronic devices such as cell phones. The DRC also has more than 30% of the world's diamond reserves. Guinea is the world's largest exporter of bauxite. As the growth in Africa has been driven mainly by services and not manufacturing or agriculture, it has been growth without jobs and without reduction in poverty levels. In fact, the food security crisis of 2008 which took place on the heels of the global financial crisis pushed 100 million people into food insecurity.\n\nIn recent years, the People's Republic of China has built increasingly stronger ties with African nations and is Africa's largest trading partner. In 2007, Chinese companies invested a total of US$1 billion in Africa.\n\nA Harvard University study led by professor Calestous Juma showed that Africa could feed itself by making the transition from importer to self-sufficiency. \"African agriculture is at the crossroads; we have come to the end of a century of policies that favoured Africa's export of raw materials and importation of food. Africa is starting to focus on agricultural innovation as its new engine for regional trade and prosperity.\"\n\nDuring US President Barack Obama's visit to Africa in July 2013, he announced a US$7 billion plan to further develop infrastructure and work more intensively with African heads of state. He also announced a new programme named Trade Africa, designed to boost trade within the continent as well as between Africa and the US.\n\nAfrica's population has rapidly increased over the last 40 years, and consequently, it is relatively young. In some African states, more than half the population is under 25 years of age. The total number of people in Africa increased from 229 million in 1950 to 630 million in 1990. As of , the population of Africa is estimated at / 1e9 round 1 billion . Africa's total population surpassing other continents is fairly recent; African population surpassed Europe in the 1990s, while the Americas was overtaken sometime around the year 2000; Africa's rapid population growth is expected to overtake the only two nations currently larger than its population, at roughly the same time – India and China's 1.4 billion people each will swap ranking around the year 2022. This increase in number of babies born in Africa compared to the rest of the world is expected to reach approximately 37% in the year 2050, an increase of 21% since 1990 alone.\n\nSpeakers of Bantu languages (part of the Niger–Congo family) are the majority in southern, central and southeast Africa. The Bantu-speaking peoples from the Sahel progressively expanded over most of Sub-Saharan Africa. But there are also several Nilotic groups in South Sudan and East Africa, the mixed Swahili people on the Swahili Coast, and a few remaining indigenous Khoisan (\"San\" or \"Bushmen\") and Pygmy peoples in southern and central Africa, respectively. Bantu-speaking Africans also predominate in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, and are found in parts of southern Cameroon. In the Kalahari Desert of Southern Africa, the distinct people known as the Bushmen (also \"San\", closely related to, but distinct from \"Hottentots\") have long been present. The San are physically distinct from other Africans and are the indigenous people of southern Africa. Pygmies are the pre-Bantu indigenous peoples of central Africa.\n\nThe peoples of West Africa primarily speak Niger–Congo languages, belonging mostly to its non-Bantu branches, though some Nilo-Saharan and Afro-Asiatic speaking groups are also found. The Niger–Congo-speaking Yoruba, Igbo, Fulani, Akan and Wolof ethnic groups are the largest and most influential. In the central Sahara, Mandinka or Mande groups are most significant. Chadic-speaking groups, including the Hausa, are found in more northerly parts of the region nearest to the Sahara, and Nilo-Saharan communities, such as the Songhai, Kanuri and Zarma, are found in the eastern parts of West Africa bordering Central Africa.\n\nThe peoples of North Africa consist of three main indigenous groups: Berbers in the northwest, Egyptians in the northeast, and Nilo-Saharan-speaking peoples in the east. The Arabs who arrived in the 7th century AD introduced the Arabic language and Islam to North Africa. The Semitic Phoenicians (who founded Carthage) and Hyksos, the Indo-Iranian Alans, the Indo- European Greeks, Romans, and Vandals settled in North Africa as well. Significant Berber communities remain within Morocco and Algeria in the 21st century, while, to a lesser extent, Berber speakers are also present in some regions of Tunisia and Libya. The Berber-speaking Tuareg and other often-nomadic peoples are the principal inhabitants of the Saharan interior of North Africa. In Mauritania, there is a small but near-extinct Berber community in the north and Niger–Congo-speaking peoples in the south, though in both regions Arabic and Arab culture predominates. In Sudan, although Arabic and Arab culture predominate, it is mostly inhabited by groups that originally spoke Nilo-Saharan, such as the Nubians, Fur, Masalit and Zaghawa, who, over the centuries, have variously intermixed with migrants from the Arabian peninsula. Small communities of Afro-Asiatic-speaking Beja nomads can also be found in Egypt and Sudan.\nIn the Horn of Africa, some Ethiopian and Eritrean groups (like the Amhara and Tigrayans, collectively known as Habesha) speak languages from the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family, while the Oromo and Somali speak languages from the Cushitic branch of Afro-Asiatic.\n\nPrior to the decolonization movements of the post-World War II era, Europeans were represented in every part of Africa. Decolonization during the 1960s and 1970s often resulted in the mass emigration of white settlers – especially from Algeria and Morocco (1.6 million \"pieds-noirs\" in North Africa), Kenya, Congo, Rhodesia, Mozambique and Angola. Between 1975 and 1977, over a million colonials returned to Portugal alone. Nevertheless, white Africans remain an important minority in many African states, particularly Zimbabwe, Namibia, Réunion, and the Republic of South Africa. The country with the largest white African population is South Africa. Dutch and British diasporas represent the largest communities of European ancestry on the continent today.\n\nEuropean colonization also brought sizable groups of Asians, particularly from the Indian subcontinent, to British colonies. Large Indian communities are found in South Africa, and smaller ones are present in Kenya, Tanzania, and some other southern and southeast African countries. The large Indian community in Uganda was expelled by the dictator Idi Amin in 1972, though many have since returned. The islands in the Indian Ocean are also populated primarily by people of Asian origin, often mixed with Africans and Europeans. The Malagasy people of Madagascar are an Austronesian people, but those along the coast are generally mixed with Bantu, Arab, Indian and European origins. Malay and Indian ancestries are also important components in the group of people known in South Africa as Cape Coloureds (people with origins in two or more races and continents). During the 20th century, small but economically important communities of Lebanese and Chinese have also developed in the larger coastal cities of West and East Africa, respectively.\n\nBy most estimates, well over a thousand languages (UNESCO has estimated around two thousand) are spoken in Africa. Most are of African origin, though some are of European or Asian origin. Africa is the most multilingual continent in the world, and it is not rare for individuals to fluently speak not only multiple African languages, but one or more European ones as well. There are four major language families indigenous to Africa:\n\nFollowing the end of colonialism, nearly all African countries adopted official languages that originated outside the continent, although several countries also granted legal recognition to indigenous languages (such as Swahili, Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa). In numerous countries, English and French (\"see African French\") are used for communication in the public sphere such as government, commerce, education and the media. Arabic, Portuguese, Afrikaans and Spanish are examples of languages that trace their origin to outside of Africa, and that are used by millions of Africans today, both in the public and private spheres. Italian is spoken by some in former Italian colonies in Africa. German is spoken in Namibia, as it was a former German protectorate.\n\nSome aspects of traditional African cultures have become less practised in recent years as a result of neglect and suppression by colonial and post-colonial regimes. For example, African customs were discouraged, and African languages were prohibited in mission schools. Leopold II of Belgium attempted to \"civilize\" Africans by discouraging polygamy and witchcraft.\n\nObidoh Freeborn posits that colonialism is one element that has created the character of modern African art. According to authors Douglas Fraser and Herbert M. Cole, \"The precipitous alterations in the power structure wrought by colonialism were quickly followed by drastic iconographic changes in the art.\" Fraser and Cole assert that, in Igboland, some art objects \"lack the vigor and careful craftsmanship of the earlier art objects that served traditional functions. Author Chika Okeke-Agulu states that \"the racist infrastructure of British imperial enterprise forced upon the political and cultural guardians of empire a denial and suppression of an emergent sovereign Africa and modernist art.\" In Soweto, the West Rand Administrative Board established a Cultural Section to collect, read, and review scripts before performances could occur. Editors F. Abiola Irele and Simon Gikandi comment that the current identity of African literature had its genesis in the \"traumatic encounter between Africa and Europe.\" On the other hand, Mhoze Chikowero believes that Africans deployed music, dance, spirituality, and other performative cultures to (re)asset themselves as active agents and indigenous intellectuals, to unmake their colonial marginalization and reshape their own destinies.\" \n\nThere is now a resurgence in the attempts to rediscover and revalue African traditional cultures, under such movements as the African Renaissance, led by Thabo Mbeki, Afrocentrism, led by a group of scholars, including Molefi Asante, as well as the increasing recognition of traditional spiritualism through decriminalization of Vodou and other forms of spirituality.\n\nAfrican art and architecture reflect the diversity of African cultures. The region's oldest known beads were made from \"Nassarius\" shells and worn as personal ornaments 72,000 years ago. The Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt was the world's tallest structure for 4,000 years, until the completion of Lincoln Cathedral around the year 1300. The stone ruins of Great Zimbabwe are also noteworthy for their architecture, as are the monolithic churches at Lalibela, Ethiopia, such as the Church of Saint George.\n\nEgypt has long been a cultural focus of the Arab world, while remembrance of the rhythms of sub-Saharan Africa, in particular West Africa, was transmitted through the Atlantic slave trade to modern samba, blues, jazz, reggae, hip hop, and rock. The 1950s through the 1970s saw a conglomeration of these various styles with the popularization of Afrobeat and Highlife music. Modern music of the continent includes the highly complex choral singing of southern Africa and the dance rhythms of the musical genre of soukous, dominated by the music of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Indigenous musical and dance traditions of Africa are maintained by oral traditions, and they are distinct from the music and dance styles of North Africa and Southern Africa. Arab influences are visible in North African music and dance and, in Southern Africa, Western influences are apparent due to colonization.\n\nFifty-four African countries have football (soccer) teams in the Confederation of African Football. Egypt has won the African Cup seven times, and a record-making three times in a row. Cameroon, Nigeria, Senegal, Ghana, and Algeria have advanced to the knockout stage of recent FIFA World Cups. South Africa hosted the 2010 World Cup tournament, becoming the first African country to do so.\n\nCricket is popular in some African nations. South Africa and Zimbabwe have Test status, while Kenya is the leading non-test team and previously had One-Day International cricket (ODI) status (from 10 October 1997, until 30 January 2014). The three countries jointly hosted the 2003 Cricket World Cup. Namibia is the other African country to have played in a World Cup. Morocco in northern Africa has also hosted the 2002 Morocco Cup, but the national team has never qualified for a major tournament. Rugby is a popular sport in South Africa, Namibia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nAfricans profess a wide variety of religious beliefs, and statistics on religious affiliation are difficult to come by since they are often a sensitive topic for governments with mixed religious populations. According to the World Book Encyclopedia, Islam is the largest religion in Africa, followed by Christianity. According to Encyclopædia Britannica, 45% of the population are Christians, 40% are Muslims, and 10% follow traditional religions. A small number of Africans are Hindu, Buddhist, Confucianist, Baha'i, or Jewish. There is also a minority of people in Africa who are irreligious.\n\nThe countries in this table are categorized according to the scheme for geographic subregions used by the United Nations, and data included are per sources in cross-referenced articles. Where they differ, provisos are clearly indicated.\n"}
{"id": "1211793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211793", "title": "Amicalola Falls", "text": "Amicalola Falls\n\nAmicalola Falls is a 729-foot (222 m) waterfall on Amicalola Creek in Dawson County, Georgia, United States. It the highest waterfall in Georgia and is considered to be one of the Seven Natural Wonders of Georgia. The name \"Amicalola\" is derived from a Cherokee language word meaning \"tumbling waters\". The falls are the centerpiece of Amicalola Falls State Park.\n"}
{"id": "381262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381262", "title": "Anibare District", "text": "Anibare District\n\nAnibare is a district in the island nation Nauru, a part of the Anabar Constituency.\n\nIt is located in the east of the island, and covers an area of . It has a population of about 250. It is thus Nauru's largest district in area, and among the smallest in population. Nauru's reputation for being densely populated is thus somewhat nuanced, since it refers principally to the average areas and populations of districts other than Anibare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54424418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54424418", "title": "Beljarica", "text": "Beljarica\n\nBeljarica () is a wetland in the Danube valley in Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. Since 2013 it is in the process of becoming protected area. Due to the abundant wildlife and undisturbed nature, though being close to downtown Belgrade, it has been nicknamed \"Belgrade's Amazonia\".\n\nBeljarica is located northwest of Belgrade, in the southwest corner of the Pančevački Rit marshland and, thus, of the Banat region. It begins from downtown and spawns along the left bank of the Danube, approximately from Danube's to . It belongs to the municipality of Palilula and, though inhabited, it is administratively divided between the settlements of Borča (southern), Kovilovo (central) and Padinska Skela (northern part).\n\nIt begins north of the point where the Pupin Bridge crosses the Danube and stretches across several neighborhoods and settlements on the left, Syrmian bank: Nova Galenika, 13. Maj, Batajnica (in the municipality of Zemun) and Novi Banovci (in the municipality of Stara Pazova).\n\nBeljarica occupies the marshland between the left bank of the Danube and the curved embankment which protects the drained and arable land in Pančevački Rit. Northern section is known as the bog of Široka Bara. It covers an area of and is locally also known as \"Crvenka\" or \"Balaton\".\n\nAs an elongated floodplain along the Danube, Beljarica is a typical green corridor. The marshland represents a mosaic of bogs, streams, oxbows, meanders and lush forests and makes a natural riparian zone which receives the surplus of water during the high water level of the Danube, thus preventing the flooding downstream.\n\nThe wetland is home to 216 plant species, 139 species of insects and 98 species of fish. Beljarica is a major fish spawning and bird nesting area. Of 136 bird species which live in Beljarica, 108 are protected. There are several nesting couples of the largest European eagle, white-tailed eagle, and the black stork also lives in the area.\n\nMammals in the wetland include otter, wild cat, pine marten and beech marten, but also wild hog, coypu and jackal. There are 62 mammalian species in Beljarica.\n\nAs Serbia is a signatory of the Berne Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats and the Birds Directive, the state is obliged to protect such an abundant bird habitat. Additionally, since Beljarica is in the \"process of becoming a protected area\", as the nature reserve, since 2013, it considered as the protected until the government decides whether it will declare it a reserve or not. Additionally, with the islands of Veliko Ratno Ostrvo and Malo Ratno Ostrvo, it constitutes the Important Bird Area of the \"Sava's mouth into the Danube\".\n\nIn 2015, city assembly was to vote on declaring the reserve of the \"Wetland on the Danube's left bank in Belgrade\", which was even envisioned as the core of the future \"National Park Belgrade\" but the motion was withdrawn before the vote. After President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping visited Serbia in 2016, it was announced that the large, new port of Belgrade will be built in the central part of Beljarica. The proposed area of the future port is almost half of the wetland and should cover in its central part.\n\nEnvironmentalists protested stating that the partial urbanization and industrialization will fragment the wetland and that remaining small patches of marsh will not be able to sustain such an abundant wildlife. Petition for the preservation of Beljarica was organized in June 2017. By 2017 the proposal of the new port was temporarily retracted for additional revisions.\n"}
{"id": "2011002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011002", "title": "Bliss (image)", "text": "Bliss (image)\n\nBliss is the name of the default computer wallpaper of Microsoft's Windows XP operating system. It is an unedited photograph of a green hill and blue sky with clouds in the Los Carneros American Viticultural Area of California's Wine Country. Charles O'Rear originally sent it to Corbis in 1996, and Microsoft bought the rights to the picture in 2000.\n\nFormer \"National Geographic\" photographer Charles O'Rear, a resident of the nearby Napa Valley, took the photo on film with a medium-format Mamiya RZ67 camera while on his way to visit his girlfriend in 1996. While it was widely believed later that the image was digitally manipulated or even created with software such as Adobe Photoshop, O'Rear says it never was. He sold it to Corbis for use as a stock photo. Several years later, Microsoft engineers chose a digitized version of the image and licensed it from O'Rear.\n\nOver the next decade it has been claimed to be the most viewed photograph in the world during that time. Other photographers have attempted to recreate the image, some of which have been included in art exhibitions.\n\nIn January 1996 former \"National Geographic\" photographer Charles O'Rear was on his way from his home in St. Helena, California, in the Napa Valley north of San Francisco, to visit his girlfriend, Daphne Irwin (whom he later married), in the city, as he did every Friday afternoon. He was working with Irwin on a book about the wine country. He was particularly alert for a photo opportunity that day, since a storm had just passed over and other recent winter rains had left the area especially green. Driving along the Sonoma Highway (California State Route 12 and 121) he saw the hill, free of the vineyards that normally covered the area; they had been pulled out a few years earlier following a phylloxera infestation. \"There it was! My God, the grass is perfect! It's green! The sun is out; there's some clouds,\" he remembered thinking. He stopped somewhere near the Napa–Sonoma county line and pulled off the road to set his Mamiya RZ67 medium-format camera on a tripod, choosing Fujifilm's Velvia, a film often used among nature photographers and known to saturate some colors. O'Rear credits that combination of camera and film for the success of the image. \"It made the difference and, I think, helped the 'Bliss' photograph stand out even more,\" he said. \"I think that if I had shot it with 35 mm, it would not have nearly the same effect.\" While he was setting up his camera, he said it was possible that the clouds in the picture came in. \"Everything was changing so quickly at that time.\" He took four shots and got back into his truck. According to O'Rear, the image was not digitally enhanced or manipulated in any way.\n\nSince it was not pertinent to the wine-country book, O'Rear made it available through Corbis as a stock photo, available for use by any interested party willing to pay an appropriate licensing fee. In 2000 or 2001, Microsoft's Windows XP development team contacted O'Rear through Corbis, which he believes they used instead of larger competitor Getty Images, also based in Seattle, because the former company is owned by Microsoft founder Bill Gates. \"I have no idea what [they] were looking for,\" he recalls. \"Were they looking for an image that was peaceful? Were they looking for an image that had no tension?\"\n\nMicrosoft said they wanted not just to license the image for use as XP's default wallpaper, but to buy all the rights to it. They offered O'Rear what he says is the second-largest payment ever made to a photographer for a single image; however he signed a confidentiality agreement and cannot disclose the exact amount. It has been reported to be \"in the low six figures.\" O'Rear needed to send Microsoft the original film and sign the paperwork; however, when couriers and delivery services became aware of the value of the shipment, they declined since it was higher than their insurance would cover. So the software company bought him a plane ticket to Seattle and he personally delivered it to their offices.\" \"I had no idea where it was going to go,\" he said. \"I don't think the engineers or anybody at Microsoft had any idea it would have the success it's had.\"\n\nMicrosoft gave the photo its name, and made it a key part of its marketing campaign for XP. Although O'Rear had not manipulated the image in any way, the company has admitted to cropping his original image slightly to the left in order to better fit the desktop and making the greens stronger. The photographer estimates that the image has been seen on a billion computers worldwide since then, based on the number of copies of XP sold since then.\n\nIn November 2006, Goldin+Senneby visited the site in Sonoma Valley where the \"Bliss\" image was taken, re-photographing the same view now full of grapevines (pictured). Their work \"After Microsoft\" was first shown in the exhibition \"Paris was Yesterday\" at the gallery La Vitrine in April 2007. It was later exhibited at 300m in Gothenburg.\n\nO'Rear concedes that despite all the other photographs he took for \"National Geographic\", he will probably be remembered most for \"Bliss\". \"Anybody now from age 15 on for the rest of their life will remember this photograph,\" he said.\n\nSince the origins of the image were not widely known for several years after XP's release, there had been considerable speculation about where the landscape was. Some guesses have included locations in France, England, Switzerland, the North Otago region of New Zealand, and southeastern Washington. Dutch users believed the photograph was shot in Ireland's County Kerry since the image was named \"Ireland\" in the Dutch release of the software; similarly, the image was named \"Alentejo\" in the Portuguese version, leading users speaking that language to believe it had been taken in the eponymous region of Portugal.\n\nOther users have speculated that the image was not of a real location, that the sky came from a separate image and was spliced together with the hill. O'Rear is adamant that, other than Microsoft's minor alterations to the digitized version, he did nothing to it in a darkroom, contrasting it with Adams' \"Monolith\":\nIn 2012, David Clark of the British magazine \"Amateur Photographer\" commented on \"Bliss\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s aesthetic qualities. \"Critics might argue that the image is bland and lacks a point of interest, while supporters would say that its evocation of a bright, clear day in a beautiful landscape is itself the subject,\" he wrote. He notes the \"dreamlike quality\" created by the filtered sunlight on the hillside as distinguishing the image. \"What made Microsoft choose the image above all others?\" he asked. Although the company had never told O'Rear or anyone else, Clark thought he could guess. \"It's attractive, easy on the eye and doesn't detract from other items that might be on the screen are all contributing factors. It may also have been chosen because it's an unusually inviting image of a verdant landscape and one that promotes a sense of wellbeing in desk-bound computer users.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55768946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55768946", "title": "Boriti", "text": "Boriti\n\nBoriti () is a village in the Kharagauli Municipality of Imereti in western Georgia. It lies on the Dzirula River.\n\n"}
{"id": "31260100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260100", "title": "Cartography of Africa", "text": "Cartography of Africa\n\nThe earliest cartographic depictions of Africa are found in early world maps.\nIn classical antiquity, \"Africa\" (also \"Libya\") was assumed to cover the quarter of the globe south of the Mediterranean, an arrangement that was adhered to in medieval T and O maps.\nThe only part of Africa well known in antiquity was the coast of North Africa, described in Greek periplus from the 6th century BC.\nHellenistic era geographers defined Egypt as part of \"Asia\", taking the boundary of Asia and Egypt to lie at the \"Catabathmus Magnus\" (the escarpment of \"Akabah el-Kebir\" in western Egypt). Ptolemy's world map (2nd century) shows a reasonable awareness of the general topography of North Africa, but is unaware of anything south of the equator. The limit of Ptolemy's knowledge in the west is Cape Spartel (35° 48′ N); while he does assume that the coast eventually retreats in a \"Great Gulf of the Western Ocean\", this is not likely based on any knowledge of the Gulf of Guinea. In the east, Ptolemy is aware of the Red Sea (\"Sinus Arabicus\") and the protrusion of the Horn of Africa, describing the gulf south of the Horn of Africa as \"Sinus Barbaricus\".\n\nWith the European exploration of Africa from the 15th century, maps of Africa became more precise.\nThe Fra Mauro map of 1459 shows a more detailed picture of Africa as a continent, including the \"Cape of Diab\" at its southernmost point, reflecting an expedition of 1420. Sebastian Münster's \"Cosmographia\" (1545) labels the Cape of Good Hope, reached by Bartolomeu Dias in 1488, as \"caput bonae spei\". The interior of Africa was not mapped in any detail before the second half of the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "17624462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17624462", "title": "Farthest North", "text": "Farthest North\n\nFarthest North (sometimes known as Furthest North) describes the most northerly latitude reached by explorers before the conquest of the North Pole rendered the expression obsolete. The northern (Arctic) polar regions are much more accessible than those of the south, as continental land masses extend to high latitudes and sea voyages to the regions are relatively short.\n\nA Dutch expedition led by Willem Barentz reached 79°49’ N on 16 June 1596 to register the first recorded Farthest North. In 1607 Henry Hudson probably reached Hakluyt's Headland (a little south of the latitude reached by Barentsz), but could not proceed further as ice lay packed along Spitsbergen's north coast. In 1612 an explorer from Hull, Thomas Marmaduke, claimed to have reached 82°N, while Dutch explorers in 1614 and 1624 claimed to have sailed even further north to 83°N. None of these claims have any basis in fact, with the second claim, made by Joris Carolus, impossible knowing ice conditions that season; although Marmaduke did at least reach Gråhuken (at 79° 48' N). English whalers reached Svalbard's Nordkapp (at 80°32' N) in or before 1622, as shown on the \"Muscovy Company's Map\" (1625). The Seven Islands (at 80° 49' N), north of Nordaustlandet, were first marked on a Dutch map of 1663, but were allegedly reached by a ship of Enkhuizen as early as 1618. In 1707 the Dutch whaler Cornelis Cornelisz Giles (or Gieles) rounded the northernmost point of Nordaustlandet in Svalbard, passing 81°N. In 1806 the \"Resolution\" of Whitby, under William Scoresby, Sr., was said to have sailed north of the Seven Islands and reached 81° 50' N.\n\nOne of the first expeditions with the explicit purpose of reaching the North Pole was that of William Edward Parry in 1827, who reached 82°45′ N, a record that stood for decades. Albert Hastings Markham, a member of the British Arctic Expedition of 1875-76 was the next one to get closer to the pole 48 years later, when he reached a latitude of 83°20′26″ N by a dog sledge. Adolphus Greely's Lady Franklin Bay Expedition bested Markham by a few miles, reaching 83°24′ in 1882.\n\nIn 1895, Norwegians Fridtjof Nansen and Fredrik Hjalmar Johansen reached latitude 86°14′ N. In 1900, Umberto Cagni of the Italian Royal Navy left the base camp established by Luigi Amedeo, Duke of the Abruzzi, and reached latitude 86°34’ on April 25, beating Nansen's 1895 mark by 35 to 40 kilometres.\n\nTwo American explorers claimed to reach the North Pole in 1908 (Frederick Cook) and 1909 (Robert Peary). Cook's claim was soon judged to be fraudulent, and Peary was credited as the discoverer of the North Pole for much of the 20th century. In recent decades, however, Peary's claim has become the subject of controversy, though he did set a new record for Farthest North (his support party was dismissed at 87° 45’ N latitude). With Peary's claim accepted at the time, overland expeditions to the North Pole came to an end. Roald Amundsen of Norway redirected his planned Arctic expedition and instead aimed for the South Pole, which he achieved in 1911.\n\nIn 1931 an expedition, led by Hubert Wilkins and Lincoln Ellsworth and partly financed by William Randolph Hearst, attempted to reach the North Pole with a leased U.S. Navy submarine named \"Nautilus\" (formerly the USS \"O-12\"). The \"Nautilus\" was modified for under ice operations by submarine designer Simon Lake so it could detect openings (or, if necessary, drill them) in the ice pack and surface to recharge her batteries. While the expedition was a failure, the \"Nautilus\" did reach a latitude of 82 degrees north. In accordance with the lease agreement, the \"Nautilus\" was scuttled after the expedition to prevent her reuse as a warship.\n\n On 9 May 1926, Richard Evelyn Byrd attempted to fly over the North Pole in an airplane. He was widely credited with achieving this, but his claim subsequently became subject to doubt. Finally, on 12 May 1926, the airship \"Norge\" carried Roald Amundsen and fifteen other men (including the craft's designer and pilot Umberto Nobile, helmsman Oscar Wisting, navigator Hjalmar Riiser-Larsen, and the expedition's sponsor Lincoln Ellsworth) over the North Pole, en route from Spitsbergen to Alaska, the first achievement of the Pole about which there is no controversy. \n\nThe first man definitely to set foot on the Pole was the Russian Alexander Kuznetsov, who landed an aircraft there in 1948. \n\nOn 3 August 1958 the United States submarine USS Nautilus (SSN-571) was the first to sail under the ice pack to reach the North Pole. On 17 March 1959 the United States submarine \"Skate\" became the first submarine to surface at the North Pole. \n\nIn 1968–69 the British explorer Wally Herbert became the first person to indubitably reach the Pole on foot, having sledged from Alaska. His expedition was supported by air drops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53113712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53113712", "title": "Four Four West Village", "text": "Four Four West Village\n\nFour Four West Village, or Forty-Four West Village (sometimes partly transliterated as SiSi West Village due to its vernacular name is ) was a resident area in Taipei for the military personnel of the 44th Arsenal of Combined Logistics Command () and their dependents, completed in June 1949. Originally, it is said to have housed three-hundred households.\n\nThe government built the village along with Four Four East Village, after more troops were transferred to Taiwan and the capacity of Four Four South Village thus became to small. During the year of turmoil 1949, in total, more than six hundred thousand troops and two million \"dependents\" retreated from China to Taiwan. The majority of military residents in \"Four Four West Village\" had a rather high position in the army, as lieutenants or as field grade officers, whereas the general soldiers lived in Four Four East Village and craftsmen and civilians lived in Four Four South Village. The resident environment was considered premium and the descendants usually enjoyed a better education. Every house had a garden and a yard.\n\nAlong with the other military dependents' villages which were built to accommodate the immigrants (which consisted mostly of soldiers and their dependents) during the immigration wave across the Taiwan Strait following the failure of the Nationalist government during the civil war between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party of China, the villages were named 竹籬笆 ().\n\nThe area is now known as 忠駝國宅 (), which in 1991 occupied a floor area of 4.1 hectares in Taipei's Xinyi District, encompassing parts of Keelung Road, Guangfu Road and sections of Xinyi Road. 西村原址 () was previously on the site of the current 忠駝國宅.\n\n忠駝國宅 and Four Four West Village have been one of the subjects of a bilingual Chinese-English web project called \"This is My Land\" (), prepared by seven grade students, parent volunteers and school instrctors of the Taipei Municipal Ming-Hu Junior High School () starting in 2005. According to their on-site observations, no original remains of the \"Four Four West Village\" were preserved after the re-purposing of the area through the public housing project 忠駝國宅, which encompassed thirty-five apartment buildings. The vernacular history of many other military dependents' villages have equally become lost through their redevelopment as public housing communities. The \"This is My Land\" project transliterated and translated 忠駝國宅 into English as \"ZhongTuo Community\", \"Zhongtuo Public Housing Community\" or \"ZhongTuo Public Housing\".\n\nThe construction of the 忠駝國宅 housing blocks, which includes twelve-stories high apartments, started in 1979 and were completed in 1983. Because the military and the Taipei City Government jointly arranged the construction, residents stopped being of exclusively \"military\" nature. The area's third zone () houses the Taipei Municipal Xinyi Preschool (), entailing an indoor area of 1121 square meters and 831 square meters outdoors. The Taiwanese artist Ryan Kuo () has been noted living in 忠駝國宅.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32039081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32039081", "title": "Gahi", "text": "Gahi\n\nGahi is a village in Wallis and Futuna. It is located in Mua District on the southeast coast of Wallis Island on Gahi Bay. Its population according to the 2008 census was 277 people.\n"}
{"id": "46632604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46632604", "title": "Google My Maps", "text": "Google My Maps\n\nGoogle My Maps is a service launched by Google in April 2007 that enables users to create custom maps for personal use or sharing. Users can add points, lines, and shapes on top of Google Maps, using a WYSIWYG editor.\n\nIn November 2014, a new version was released, and maps from the original version were automatically upgraded. You can also have layers and customise the items in each layer with uniform styles and having labels for the name or description. There are many different objects you can have as your points, such as the town point, train point, bus point, hospital point or a school points. You can change the colour of anything and change the thickness as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "42145950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42145950", "title": "Horseshoe Falls (South Africa)", "text": "Horseshoe Falls (South Africa)\n\nThe Horseshoe Falls of South Africa are waterfalls that are located 4 km off the Old Lydenburg Road along the Sabie River in Mpumalanga. These unusual falls, although not very high, are horseshoe shaped and have been declared a national monument. While doing a short walk through the beautiful landscape that leads to the cascade-type falls, the opportunity to spot magnificent birdlife and other wildlife is not uncommon. Horseshoe Falls is also a popular venue for trout fishing. Although it is easy to navigate to, there is a small fee to get into the park to be able to enjoy this beautiful attraction.\n\nThe amphitheatre in the uKhahlamba Drakensberg Park, also in South Africa, has massive cliffs that are in the shape of a horseshoe that could be confused as horseshoe falls.\n"}
{"id": "28528249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28528249", "title": "International rankings of Colombia", "text": "International rankings of Colombia\n\nThis is a list of international rankings of Colombia.\n\nUnited State of America OSAC Safety and Crime report classified Colombia 2015 rating risk as high.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18524", "title": "Latin America", "text": "Latin America\n\nLatin America is a group of countries and dependencies in the Western Hemisphere where Romance languages such as Spanish, French and Portuguese are predominantly spoken; it is broader than the terms Ibero-America or Hispanic America. The term \"Latin America\" was first used in an 1856 conference with the title \"Initiative of the America. Idea for a Federal Congress of Republics\" (Iniciativa de la América. Idea de un Congreso Federal de las Repúblicas), by the Chilean politician Francisco Bilbao. The term was used by Napoleon III's French government in the 1860s as \"Amérique latine\" to consider French-speaking territories in the Americas, (French Canadians, French Louisiana, French Guiana, Haiti, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Saint Martin, Saint Barthélemy) along with the larger group of countries where Spanish and Portuguese languages prevailed, including the Spanish-speaking portions of the United States (Southwestern United States and Florida) Today, areas of Canada and the United States (with the exception of Puerto Rico) where Spanish, Portuguese and French are predominant are typically not included in definitions of Latin America.\n\nLatin America consists of 13 dependencies and 20 countries which cover an area that stretches from the northern border of Mexico to the southern tip of South America, including the Caribbean. It has an area of approximately 19,197,000 km (7,412,000 sq mi), almost 13% of the Earth's land surface area. As of , its population was estimated at more than floor(/1e6) million and in 2014, Latin America had a combined nominal GDP of US$5,573,397 million and a GDP PPP of 7,531,585 million USD.\n\nThe idea that a part of the Americas has a linguistic affinity with the Romance cultures as a whole can be traced back to the 1830s, in the writing of the French Saint-Simonian Michel Chevalier, who postulated that this part of the Americas was inhabited by people of a \"Latin race\", and that it could, therefore, ally itself with \"Latin Europe\", ultimately overlapping the Latin Church, in a struggle with \"Teutonic Europe\", \"Anglo-Saxon America\" and \"Slavic Europe\". Further investigations of the concept of Latin America are by Michel Gobat in the \"American Historical Review\", the studies of Leslie Bethell, and the monograph by Mauricio Tenorio-Trillo, \"Latin America: The Allure and Power of an Idea\" (2017).\n\nHistorian John Leddy Phelan locates the origins of “Latin America” in the French occupation of Mexico. His argument is that French imperialists used the concept of \"Latin\" America as a way to counter British imperialism, as well as to challenge the German threat to France. The idea of a \"Latin race\" was then taken up by Latin American intellectuals and political leaders of the mid- and late-nineteenth century, who no longer looked to Spain or Portugal as cultural models, but rather to France. French ruler Napoleon III had a strong interest in extending French commercial and political power in the region he and his business promoter Felix Belly called “Latin America” to emphasize the shared Latin background of France with the former colonies of Spain and Portugal. This led to Napoleon's failed attempt to take military control of Mexico in the 1860s.\n\nThe term \"Latin America\" was first used in 1856 in a conference by the Chilean politician Francisco Bilbao in Paris. The conference had the title \"Initiative of the America. Idea for a Federal Congress of Republics.\" The same year the Colombian writer also used the term in his poem \"The Two Americas.\" Two events related with the U.S. played a central role in both works. The first event happened less than a decade before the publication of Bilbao's and Torres Caicedo's works: the Mexican–American War, after which Mexico lost a third of its territory. The second event happened the same year both works were written, in opposition to the decision by U.S. president Franklin Pierce to recognize the regime recently established in Nicaragua by American William Walker and his band of filibusters who ruled Nicaragua for nearly a year, 1856-57.\n\nIn both Bilbao's and Torres Caicedo's works, the U.S.-Mexico war and Walker's expedition to Nicaragua are explicitly mentioned as examples of dangers for the region. For Bilbao, \"Latin America\" was not a geographical concept, since he excluded Brazil, Paraguay and Mexico. Both authors also ask for the union of all Latin American countries as the only way to defend their territories against further foreign U.S. interventions. Both rejected also European imperialism, claiming that the return of European countries to non-democratic forms of government was another danger for Latin American countries, and used the same word to describe the state of European politics at the time: \"despotism.\" Several years later, during the French invasion of Mexico, Bilbao wrote another work, \"Emancipation of the Spirit in America,\" where he asked all Latin American countries to support the Mexican cause against France, and rejected French imperialism in Asia, Africa, Europe and the Americas. He asked Latin American intellectuals to search for their \"intellectual emancipation\" by abandoning all French ideas, claiming that France was: \"Hypocrite, because she [France] calls herself protector of the Latin race just to subject it to her exploitation regime; treacherous, because she speaks of freedom and nationality, when, unable to conquer freedom for herself, she enslaves others instead!\" Therefore, as Michel Gobat puts it, the term Latin America itself had an \"anti-imperial genesis,\" and their creators were far from supporting any form of imperialism in the region, or in any other place of the globe.\n\nHowever, in France the term Latin America was used with the opposite intention. It was supported by the French Empire of Napoleon III during the French invasion of Mexico as a way to include France among countries with influence in the Americas and to exclude Anglophone countries. It played a role in his campaign to imply cultural kinship of the region with France, transform France into a cultural and political leader of the area, and install Maximilian of Habsburg as emperor of the Second Mexican Empire. This term was also used in 1861 by French scholars in \"La revue des races Latines,\" a magazine dedicated to the Pan-Latinism movement.\n\n\nThe distinction between \"Latin America\" and \"Anglo-America\" is a convention based on the predominant languages in the Americas by which Romance-language and English-speaking cultures are distinguished. Neither area is culturally or linguistically homogeneous; in substantial portions of Latin America (e.g., highland Peru, Bolivia, Mexico, Guatemala), Native American cultures and, to a lesser extent, Amerindian languages, are predominant, and in other areas, the influence of African cultures is strong (e.g., the Caribbean basinincluding parts of Colombia and Venezuela).\n\nThe term is not without controversy. Historian Mauricio Tenorio-Trillo explores at length the \"allure and power\" of the idea of Latin America. He remarks at the outset, \"The idea of 'Latin America' ought to have vanished with the obsolescence of racial theory... But it is not easy to declare something dead when it can hardly be said to have existed,\" going on to say, \"The term is here to stay, and it is important.\" Following in the tradition of Chilean writer Francisco Bilbao, who excluded Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay from his early conceptualization of Latin America, Chilean historian Jaime Eyzaguirre has criticized the term Latin America for \"disguising\" and \"diluting\" the Spanish character of a region (i.e. Hispanic America) with the inclusion of nations that according to him do not share the same pattern of conquest and colonization.\n\nLatin America can be subdivided into several subregions based on geography, politics, demographics and culture. If defined as all of the Americas south of the United States, the basic geographical subregions are North America, Central America, the Caribbean and South America; the latter contains further politico-geographical subdivisions such as the Southern Cone, the Guianas and the Andean states. It may be subdivided on linguistic grounds into Hispanic America, Portuguese America and French America.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>: Not a sovereign state\n\nThe earliest known settlement was identified at Monte Verde, near Puerto Montt in Southern Chile. Its occupation dates to some 14,000 years ago and there is some disputed evidence of even earlier occupation. Over the course of millennia, people spread to all parts of the continents. By the first millennium CE, South America's vast rainforests, mountains, plains and coasts were the home of tens of millions of people. The earliest settlements in the Americas are of the Las Vegas Culture from about 8000 BCE and 4600 BCE, a sedentary group from the coast of Ecuador, the forefathers of the more known Valdivia culture, of the same era. Some groups formed more permanent settlements such as the Chibcha (or \"Muisca\" or \"Muysca\") and the Tairona groups. These groups are in the circum Caribbean region. The Chibchas of Colombia, the Quechuas and Aymaras of Bolivia and Philippines were the three indigenous groups that settled most permanently.\n\nThe region was home to many indigenous peoples and advanced civilizations, including the Aztecs, Toltecs, Maya, and Inca. The golden age of the Maya began about 250, with the last two great civilizations, the Aztecs and Incas, emerging into prominence later on in the early fourteenth century and mid-fifteenth centuries, respectively. The Aztec empire was ultimately the most powerful civilization known throughout the Americas, until its downfall in part by the Spanish invasion.\n\nWith the arrival of the Europeans following Christopher Columbus' voyages, the indigenous elites, such as the Incas and Aztecs, lost power to the heavy European invasion. Hernándo Cortés seized the Aztec elite's power with the help of local groups who had favored the Aztec elite, and Francisco Pizarro eliminated the Incan rule in Western South America. The European powers of Spain and Portugal colonized the region, which along with the rest of the uncolonized world, was divided into areas of Spanish and Portuguese control by the line of demarcation in 1494, which gave Spain all areas to the west, and Portugal all areas to the east (the Portuguese lands in South America subsequently becoming Brazil). By the end of the sixteenth century Spain and Portugal had been joined by others, including France, in occupying large areas of North, Central and South America, ultimately extending from Alaska to the southern tips of the Patagonia. European culture, customs and government were introduced, with the Roman Catholic Church becoming the major economic and political power to overrule the traditional ways of the region, eventually becoming the only official religion of the Americas during this period.\n\nEpidemics of diseases brought by the Europeans, such as smallpox and measles, wiped out a large portion of the indigenous population. Historians cannot determine the number of natives who died due to European diseases, but some put the figures as high as 85% and as low as 25%. Due to the lack of written records, specific numbers are hard to verify. Many of the survivors were forced to work in European plantations and mines. Intermixing between the indigenous peoples and the European colonists was very common, and, by the end of the colonial period, people of mixed ancestry (mestizos) formed majorities in several colonies.\n\nIndigenous peoples of the Americas in various European colonies were forced to work in European plantations and mines; along with African slaves who were also introduced in the proceeding centuries.\n\nThe Mita of Colonial Latin America was a system of forced labor imposed on the natives. First established by Viceroy Francisco de Toledo (1569–1581), the Mita was upheld by laws that designated how large draft levies were and how much money the workers would receive that was based on how many shifts each individual worker performed. Toledo established Mitas at Potosi and Huancavelica, where the Mitayos—the workers—would be reduced in number to a fraction of how many were originally assigned before the 1700s. While several villages managed to resist the Mita, others offered payment to colonial administrators as a way out. In exchange, free labor became available through volunteers, though the Mita was kept in place as workers like miners, for example, were paid low wages. The Spanish Crown had not made any ruling on the Mita or approved of it when Toledo first established it in spite of the uncertainty of the practice since the Crown could have gained benefits from it. However, the cortes of Spain later abolished it in 1812 once complaints of the Mita violating humanitarian rights were made. Yet complaints also came from: governors; landowners; native leaders known as Kurakas; and even priests, each of whom preferred other methods of economic exploitation. Despite its fall, the Mita made it to the 1800s.\n\nAnother important group of slaves to mention were the slaves brought over from Africa. The first slaves came over with Christopher Columbus from the very beginning on his earliest voyages. However in the few hundred years, the Atlantic Slave trade would begin delivering slaves, imported by Spain and other colonizers, by the millions. Many of the large scale productions were run by forced slave labor. They were a part of sugar and coffee production, farming (beans, rice, corn, fruit, etc.), Mining, whale oil and multiple other jobs. Slaves were also house workers, servants, military soldiers, and much more. To say the least these people were property and treated as such. Though indigenous slaves existed, they were no match in quantity and lack of quality jobs when compared to the African slave. The slave population was massive compared to the better known slave ownership in the United States. After 1860 Brazil alone had imported over 4 million slaves, which only represented about 35% of the Atlantic slave trade. Despite the large number of slaves in Latin America, there was not as much reproduction of slaves amongst the population. Because most of the slaves then were African-born, they were more subject to rebellion. The United States involvement in the slave trade is well known amongst North America, however it hides a larger and in some ways crueler operation in the south which had a much longer history. \n\nIn 1804, Haiti became the first Latin American nation to gain independence, following a violent slave revolt led by Toussaint L'ouverture on the French colony of Saint-Domingue. The victors abolished slavery. Haitian independence inspired independence movements in Spanish America.\n\nBy the end of the eighteenth century, Spanish and Portuguese power waned on the global scene as other European powers took their place, notably Britain and France. Resentment grew among the majority of the population in Latin America over the restrictions imposed by the Spanish government, as well as the dominance of native Spaniards (Iberian-born \"Peninsulares\") in the major social and political institutions. Napoleon's invasion of Spain in 1808 marked a turning point, compelling Criollo elites to form juntas that advocated independence. Also, the newly independent Haiti, the second oldest nation in the New World after the United States, further fueled the independence movement by inspiring the leaders of the movement, such as Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla of Mexico, Simón Bolívar of Venezuela and José de San Martín of Argentina, and by providing them with considerable munitions and troops.\n\nFighting soon broke out between juntas and the Spanish colonial authorities, with initial victories for the advocates of independence. Eventually, these early movements were crushed by the royalist troops by 1810, including those of Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla in Mexico in the year 1810. Later on Francisco de Miranda in Venezuela by 1812. Under the leadership of a new generation of leaders, such as Simón Bolívar \"The Liberator\", José de San Martín of Argentina, and other \"Libertadores\" in South America, the independence movement regained strength, and by 1825, all Spanish America, except for Puerto Rico and Cuba, had gained independence from Spain. In the same year in Mexico, a military officer, Agustín de Iturbide, led a coalition of conservatives and liberals who created a constitutional monarchy, with Iturbide as emperor. This First Mexican Empire was short-lived, and was followed by the creation of a republic in 1823.\n\nThe Brazilian War of Independence, which had already began along other independent movements around the region, spread through northern, northeastern regions and in Cisplatina province. With the last Portuguese soldiers surrendering on 8 March 1824, Portugal officially recognized Brazil on 29 August 1825.\n\nOn 7 April 1831, worn down by years of administrative turmoil and political dissensions with both liberal and conservative sides of politics, including an attempt of republican secession, as well as unreconciled with the way that absolutists in Portugal had given to the succession of King John VI, Pedro I went to Portugal to reclaim his daughter's crown, abdicating the Brazilian throne in favor of his five-year-old son and heir (who thus became the Empire's second monarch, with the regnal title of Dom Pedro II).\nAs the new Emperor could not exert his constitutional powers until he became of age, a regency was set up by the National Assembly. In the absence of a charismatic figure who could represent a moderate face of power, during this period a series of localized rebellions took place, as the Cabanagem, the Malê Revolt, the Balaiada, the Sabinada, and the Ragamuffin War, which emerged from the dissatisfaction of the provinces with the central power, coupled with old and latent social tensions peculiar of a vast, slaveholding and newly independent nation state. This period of internal political and social upheaval, which included the Praieira revolt, was overcome only at the end of the 1840s, years after the end of the regency, which occurred with the premature coronation of Pedro II in 1841.\n\nDuring the last phase of the monarchy, an internal political debate was centered on the issue of slavery. The Atlantic slave trade was abandoned in 1850, as a result of the British' Aberdeen Act, but only in May 1888 after a long process of internal mobilization and debate for an ethical and legal dismantling of slavery in the country, was the institution formally abolished.\n\nOn 15 November 1889, worn out by years of economic stagnation, in attrition with the majority of Army officers, as well as with rural and financial elites (for different reasons), the monarchy was overthrown by a military coup.\n\nAfter the independence of many Latin American countries, there was a conflict between the people and the government, much of which can be reduced to the contrasting ideologies between liberalism and conservatism. Conservatism was the dominant system of government prior to the revolutions and it was founded on having social classes, including governing by kings. Liberalists wanted to see a change in the ruling systems, and to move away from monarchs and social classes in order to promote equality.\n\nWhen liberal Guadalupe Victoria became the first president of Mexico in 1824, conservatists relied on their belief that the state had been better off before the new government came into power, so, by comparison, the old government was better in the eyes of the Conservatives. Following this sentiment, the conservatives pushed to take control of the government, and they succeeded. General Santa Anna was elected president in 1833. The following decade, the Mexican–American War (1846–48) caused Mexico to lose a significant amount of territory to the United States. This loss led to a rebellion by the enraged liberal forces against the conservative government.\n\nIn 1837, conservative Rafael Carrera conquered Guatemala and separated from the Central American Union. The instability that followed the disintegration of the union led to the independence of the other Central American countries.\n\nIn Brazil, rural aristocrats were in conflict with the urban conservatives. Portuguese control over Brazilian ports continued after Brazil's independence. Following the conservative idea that the old government was better, urbanites tended to support conservatism because more opportunities were available to them as a result of the Portuguese presence.\n\nSimón Bolívar became president of Gran Colombia in 1819 after the region gained independence from Spain. He led a military-controlled state. Citizens did not like the government's position under Bolívar: The people in the military were unhappy with their roles, and the civilians were of the opinion that the military had too much power. After the dissolution of Gran Colombia, New Grenada continued to have conflicts between conservatives and liberals. These conflicts were each concentrated in particular regions, with conservatives particularly in the southern mountains and the Valley of Cauca. In the mid-1840s some leaders in Caracas organized a liberal opposition. Antonio Leocadio Guzman was an active participant and journalist in this movement and gained much popularity among the people of Caracas.\n\nIn Argentina, the conflict manifested itself as a prolonged civil war between \"unitarianas\" (i.e. \"centralists\") and \"federalists\", which were in some aspects respectively analogous to liberals and conservatives in other countries. Between 1832 and 1852, the country existed as a confederation, without a head of state, although the federalist governor of Buenos Aires province, Juan Manuel de Rosas, was given the powers of debt payment and international relations and exerted a growing hegemony over the country. A national constitution was only enacted in 1853, reformed in 1860, and the country reorganized as a federal republic led by a liberal-conservative elite. After Uruguay achieved its independence, in 1828, a similar polarization crystallized between \"blancos\" and \"colorados\", where the agrarian conservative interests were pitted against the liberal commercial interests based in Montevideo, and which eventually resulted in the \"Guerra Grande\" civil war (1839–1851).\n\nLosing most of its North American colonies at the end of the 18th century left Great Britain in need of new markets to supply resources in the early 19th century. In order to solve this problem, Great Britain turned to the Spanish colonies in South America for resources and markets. In 1806 a small British force surprise attacked the capitol of the viceroyalty in Río de la Plata. As a result, the local garrison protecting the capitol was destroyed in an attempt to defend against the British conquest. The British were able to capture large amounts of precious metals, before a French naval force intervened on behalf of the Spanish King and took down the invading force. However, this caused much turmoil in the area as militia took control of the area from the viceroy. The next year the British attacked once again with a much larger force attempting to reach and conquer Montevideo. They failed to reach Montevideo but succeeded in establishing an alliance with the locals. As a result, the British were able to take control of the Indian markets.\n\nThis newly gained British dominance hindered the development of Latin American industries and strengthened the dependence on the world trade network. Britain now replaced Spain as the region's largest trading partner. Great Britain invested significant capital in Latin America in order to develop the area as a market for processed goods. From the early 1820s to 1850, the post-independence economies of Latin American countries were lagging and stagnant. Eventually, enhanced trade among Britain and Latin America led to state development such as infrastructure improvements. These improvements included roads and railroads which grew the trades between countries and outside nations such as Great Britain. By 1870, exports dramatically increased, attracting capital from abroad (including Europe and USA).\n\nBetween 1821 and 1910, Mexico battled through various civil wars between the established Conservative government and the Liberal reformists (\"Mexico Timeline- Page 2)\". On May 8, 1827 Baron Damas, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Sebastián Camacho, a Mexican diplomat, signed an agreement called \"The Declarations\" which contained provisions regarding commerce and navigation between France and Mexico. At this time the French government did not recognize Mexico as an independent entity. It was not until 1861 that the liberalist rebels, led by Benito Juárez, took control of Mexico City, consolidating liberal rule. However, the constant state of warfare left Mexico with a tremendous amount of debt owed to Spain, England, and France, all of whom funded the Mexican war effort (Neeno). As newly appointed president, Benito Juárez suspended payment of debts for next two years, to focus on a rebuilding and stabilization initiative in Mexico under the new government. On December 8, 1861, Spain, England and France landed in Veracruz in order to seize unpaid debts from Mexico. However, Napoleon III, with intentions of establishing a French client state to further push his economic interests, pressured the other two powers to withdraw in 1862 (Greenspan; \"French Intervention in Mexico…\"). France under Napoleon III remained and established Maximilian of Habsburg, Archduke of Austria, as Emperor of Mexico. The march by the French to Mexico City enticed heavy resistance by the Mexican government, it resulted in open warfare. The Battle of Puebla in 1862 in particular presented an important turning point in which Ignacio Zaragoza led the Mexican army to victory as they pushed back the French offensive (\"Timeline of the Mexican Revolution\"). The victory came to symbolize Mexico's power and national resolve against foreign occupancy and as a result delayed France's later attack on Mexico City for an entire year (Cinco de Mayo (Mexican History)). With heavy resistance by Mexican rebels and the fear of United States intervention against France, forced Napoleon III to withdraw from Mexico, leaving Maximilian to surrender, where he would be later executed by Mexican troops under the rule of Porfirio Díaz. Napoleon III's desire to expand France's economic empire influenced the decision to seize territorial domain over the Central American region. The port city of Veracruz, Mexico and France's desire to construct a new canal were of particular interest. Bridging both New World and East Asian trade routes to the Atlantic were key to Napoleon III's economic goals to the mining of precious rocks and the expansion of France's textile industry. Napoleon's fear of the United States' economic influence over the Pacific trade region, and in turn all New World economic activity, pushed France to intervene in Mexico under the pretense of collecting on Mexico's debt. Eventually France began plans to build the Panama Canal in 1881 until 1904 when the United States took over and proceeded with its construction and implementation (\"Read Our Story\").\n\nThe Monroe Doctrine was included in President James Monroe's 1823 annual message to Congress. The doctrine warns European nations that the United States will no longer tolerate any new colonization of Latin American countries. It was originally drafted to meet the present major concerns, but eventually became the precept of U.S. foreign policy in the Western Hemisphere. The doctrine was put into effect in 1865 when the U.S. government supported Mexican president, Benito Juárez, diplomatically and militarily. Some Latin American countries viewed the U.S. interventions, allowed by the Monroe Doctrine when the U.S. deems necessary, with suspicion.\n\nAnother important aspect of United States involvement in Latin America is the case of the filibuster William Walker. In 1855, he traveled to Nicaragua hoping to overthrow the government and take the land for the United States. With only the aid of 56 followers, he was able to take over the city of Granada, declaring himself commander of the army and installing Patricio Rivas as a puppet president. However, Rivas's presidency ended when he fled Nicaragua; Walker rigged the following election to ensure that he became the next president. His presidency did not last long, however, as he was met with much opposition from political groups in Nicaragua and neighbouring countries. On May 1, 1857, Walker was forced by a coalition of Central American armies to surrender himself to a United States Navy officer who repatriated him and his followers. When Walker subsequently returned to Central America in 1860, he was apprehended by the Honduran authorities and executed.\n\nThe Mexican–American War, another instance of U.S. involvement in Latin America, was a war between the United States and Mexico that started in April 1846 and lasted until February 1848. The main cause of the war was the United States' annexation of Texas in 1845 and a dispute afterwards about whether the border between Mexico and the United States ended where Mexico claimed, at the Nueces River, or ended where the United States claimed, at the Rio Grande. Peace was negotiated between the United States and Mexico with the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which stated that Mexico was to cede land which would later become part of California and New Mexico as well as give up all claims to Texas, for which the United States would pay $15,000,000. However, tensions between the two countries were still high and over the next six years things only got worse with raids along the border and attacks by Native Americans against Mexican citizens. To defuse the situation, the United States agreed to purchase 29,670 squares miles of land from Mexico for $10,000,000 so a southern railroad could be built to connect the Pacific and Atlantic coasts. This would become known as the Gadsden Purchase. A critical component of U.S. intervention in Latin American affairs took form in the Spanish–American War, which drastically affected the futures of Cuba and Puerto Rico in the Americas, as well as Guam and the Philippines, by dismantling some of the last remaining Spanish colonial possessions throughout the world.\n\nThe Zimmermann Telegram was a 1917 diplomatic proposal from the German Empire for Mexico to join an alliance with Germany in the event of the United States entering World War I against Germany. The proposal was intercepted and decoded by British intelligence. The revelation of the contents outraged the American public and swayed public opinion. President Woodrow Wilson moved to arm American merchant ships in order to defend themselves against German submarines, which had started to attack them. The news helped generate support for the United States declaration of war on Germany in April of that year.\n\nThe message came as a coded telegram dispatched by the Foreign Secretary of the German Empire, Arthur Zimmermann, on January 16, 1917. The message was sent to the German ambassador of Mexico, Heinrich von Eckardt. Zimmermann sent the telegram in anticipation of the by Germany on 1 February, an act which Germany presumed would lead to war. The telegram instructed Ambassador Eckardt that if the U.S. appeared certain to enter the war, he was to approach the Mexican Government with a proposal for a military alliance, with funding from Germany. As part of the alliance, Germany would assist Mexico in reconquering Texas and the Southwest. Eckardt was instructed to urge Mexico to help broker an alliance between Germany and Japan. Mexico, in the middle of the Mexican Revolution, far weaker militarily, economically and politically than the U.S., ignored the proposal; after the U.S. entered the war, it officially rejected it.\n\nAfter World War I, in which Brazil was an ally of the United States, Great Britain, and France, the country realized it needed a more capable army but didn't have the technology to create it. In 1919, the French Military Mission was established by the French Commission in Brazil. Their main goal was to contain the inner rebellions in Brazil. They tried to assist the army by bringing them up to the European military standard but constant civil missions did not prepare them for World War II.\n\nBrazil's President, Getúlio Vargas, wanted to industrialize Brazil, allowing it to be more competitive with other countries. He reached out to Germany, Italy, France, and the United States to act as trade allies. Many Italian and German people immigrated to Brazil many years before World War II began thus creating a Nazi influence. The immigrants held high positions in government and the armed forces. It was recently found that 9,000 war criminals escaped to South America, including Croats, Ukrainians, Russians and other western Europeans who aided the Nazi war machine. Most, perhaps as many as 5,000, went to Argentina; between 1,500 and 2,000 are thought to have made it to Brazil; around 500 to 1,000 to Chile; and the rest to Paraguay and Uruguay. It was not a secret that Vargas had an admiration for Hitler's Nazi Germany and its Führer. He even let German Luftwaffe build secret air forces around Brazil.\nThis alliance with Germany became Brazil's second best trade alliance behind the United States.\n\nBrazil continued to try to remain neutral to the United States and Germany because it was trying to make sure it could continue to be a place of interest for both opposing countries. Brazil attended continental meetings in Buenos Aires, Argentina (1936); Lima, Peru (1938); and Havana, Cuba (1940) that obligated them to agree to defend any part of the Americas if they were to be attacked. Eventually, Brazil decided to stop trading with Germany once Germany started attacking offshore trading ships resulting in Germany declaring a blockade against the Americas in the Atlantic Ocean. Furthermore, Germany also ensured that they would be attacking the Americas soon.\n\nOnce the German submarines attacked unarmed Brazilian trading ships, President Vargas met with the United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt to discuss how they could retaliate. On January 22, 1942, Brazil officially ended all relations with Germany, Japan, and Italy, becoming a part of the Allies.\n\nThe Brazilian Expeditionary Force was sent to Naples, Italy to fight for democracy. Brazil was the only Latin American country to send troops to Europe. Initially, Brazil wanted to only provide resources and shelter for the war to have a chance of gaining a high postwar status but ended up sending 25,000 men to fight.\n\nAfter World War II, the United States and Latin America continued to have a close relationship. For example, USAID created family planning programs in Latin America combining the NGOs already in place, providing the women in largely Catholic areas access to contraception.\n\nThere was a Nazi influence in certain parts of the region, but Jewish migration from Europe during the war continued. Only a few people recognized or knew about the Holocaust. Furthermore, numerous military bases were built during the war by the United States, but some also by the Germans. Even now, unexploded bombs from the second world war that need to be made safe still remain.\n\nThe Great Depression caused Latin America to grow at a slow rate, separating it from leading industrial democracies. The two world wars and U.S. Depression also made Latin American countries favor internal economic development, leading Latin America to adopt the policy of import substitution industrialization. Countries also renewed emphasis on exports. Brazil began selling automobiles to other countries, and some Latin American countries set up plants to assemble imported parts, letting other countries take advantage of Latin America's low labor costs. Colombia began to export flowers, emeralds and coffee grains and gold, becoming the world's second-leading flower exporter.\n\nEconomic integration was called for, to attain economies that could compete with the economies of the United States or Europe. Starting in the 1960s with the Latin American Free Trade Association and Central American Common Market, Latin American countries worked toward economic integration.\n\nIn efforts to help regain global economic strength, the U.S. began to heavily assist countries involved in World War II at the expense of Latin America. Markets that were previously unopposed as a result of the war in Latin America grew stagnant as the rest of the world no longer needed their goods.\n\nLarge countries like Argentina called for reforms to lessen the disparity of wealth between the rich and the poor, which has been a long problem in Latin America that stunted economic growth.\n\nAdvances in public health caused an explosion of population growth, making it difficult to provide social services. Education expanded, and social security systems introduced, but benefits usually went to the middle class, not the poor. As a result, the disparity of wealth increased. Increasing inflation and other factors caused countries to be unwilling to fund social development programs to help the poor.\n\nBureaucratic authoritarianism was practiced in Brazil after 1964, in Argentina, and in Chile under Augusto Pinochet, in a response to harsh economic conditions. It rested on the conviction that no democracy could take the harsh measures to curb inflation, reassure investors, and quicken economic growth quickly and effectively. Though inflation fell sharply, industrial production dropped with the decline of official protection.\n\nAfter World War II and the beginning of a Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union, US diplomats became interested in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, and frequently waged proxy wars against the Soviet Union in these countries. The US sought to stop the spread of communism. Latin American countries generally sided with the US in the Cold War period, even though they were neglected since the US's concern with communism were focused in Europe and Asia, not Latin America. Between 1946 and 1959 Latin America received only 2% of the United States foreign aid despite having poor conditions similar to the main recipients of The Marshall Plan. Some Latin American governments also complained of the US support in the overthrow of some nationalist governments, and intervention through the CIA. In 1947, the US Congress passed the National Security Act, which created the National Security Council in response to the United States's growing obsession with anti-communism.\n\nIn 1954, when Jacobo Arbenz of Guatemala accepted the support of communists and attacked holdings of the United Fruit Company, the US decided to assist Guatemalan counter-revolutionaries in overthrowing Arbenz. These interventionist tactics featured the use of the CIA rather than the military, which was used in Latin America for the majority of the Cold War in events including the overthrow of Salvador Allende. Latin America was more concerned with issues of economic development, while the United States focused on fighting communism, even though the presence of communism was small in Latin America.\n\nBy 1959, Cuba was afflicted with a corrupt dictatorship under Batista, and Fidel Castro ousted Batista that year and set up the first communist state in the hemisphere. The United States imposed a trade embargo on Cuba, and combined with Castro's expropriation of private enterprises, this was detrimental to the Cuban economy. Around Latin America, rural guerrilla conflict and urban terrorism increased, inspired by the Cuban example. The United States put down these rebellions by supporting Latin American countries in their counter-guerrilla operations through the Alliance for Progress launched by President John F. Kennedy. This thrust appeared to be successful. A Marxist, Salvador Allende, became president of Chile in 1970, but was overthrown three years later in a military coup backed by the United States. Despite civil war, high crime and political instability, most Latin American countries eventually adopted bourgeois liberal democracies while Cuba maintained its socialist system.\n\nEncouraged by the success of Guatemala in the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état, in 1960, the U.S. decided to support an attack on Cuba by anti-Castro rebels. The Bay of Pigs invasion was an unsuccessful invasion of Cuba in 1961, financed by the U.S. through the CIA, to overthrow Fidel Castro. The incident proved to be very embarrassing for the new Kennedy administration.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy initiated the Alliance for Progress in 1961, to establish economic cooperation between the U.S. and Latin America. The Alliance would provide $20 billion for reform in Latin America, and counterinsurgency measures. Instead, the reform failed because of the simplistic theory that guided it and the lack of experienced American experts who could understand Latin American customs.\n\nFollowing the American occupation of Nicaragua in 1912, as part of the Banana Wars, the Somoza family political dynasty came to power, and would rule Nicaragua until their ouster in 1979 during the Nicaraguan Revolution. The era of Somoza family rule was characterized by strong U.S. support for the government and its military[15] as well as a heavy reliance on U.S.-based multi-national corporations. The Nicaraguan Revolution (Spanish: Revolución Nicaragüense or Revolución Popular Sandinista) encompassed the rising opposition to the Somoza dictatorship in the 1960s and 1970s, the campaign led by the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) to violently oust the dictatorship in 1978–79, the subsequent efforts of the FSLN to govern Nicaragua from 1979 until 1990 and the Contra War which was waged between the FSLN and the Contras from 1981–1990.\n\nThe Revolution marked a significant period in Nicaraguan history and revealed the country as one of the major proxy war battlegrounds of the Cold War with the events in the country rising to international attention. Although the initial overthrow of the Somoza regime in 1978–79 was a bloody affair, the Contra War of the 1980s took the lives of tens of thousands of Nicaraguans and was the subject of fierce international debate. During the 1980s both the FSLN (a Leftist collection of political parties) and the Contras (a rightist collection of counter-revolutionary groups) received large amounts of aid from the Cold War super-powers (respectively, the Soviet Union and the United States).\n\nThe set of specific economic policy prescriptions that were considered the \"standard\" reform package were promoted for crisis-wracked developing countries by Washington, D.C.-based institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and the US Department of the Treasury during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn recent years, several Latin American countries led by socialist or other left wing governmentsincluding Argentina and Venezuelahave campaigned for (and to some degree adopted) policies contrary to the Washington Consensus set of policies. (Other Latin countries with governments of the left, including Brazil, Chile and Peru, have in practice adopted the bulk of the policies.) Also critical of the policies as actually promoted by the International Monetary Fund have been some US economists, such as Joseph Stiglitz and Dani Rodrik, who have challenged what are sometimes described as the \"fundamentalist\" policies of the International Monetary Fund and the US Treasury for what Stiglitz calls a \"one size fits all\" treatment of individual economies.\n\nThe term has become associated with neoliberal policies in general and drawn into the broader debate over the expanding role of the free market, constraints upon the state, and US influence on other countries' national sovereignty.\n\nThis politico-economical initiative was institutionalized in North America by 1994 NAFTA, and elsewhere in the Americas through a series of like agreements. The comprehensive Free Trade Area of the Americas project, however, was rejected by most South American countries at the 2005 4th Summit of the Americas.\n\nIn most countries, since the 2000s left-wing political parties have risen to power. The presidencies of Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, Ricardo Lagos and Michelle Bachelet in Chile, Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff in Brazil, Néstor Kirchner and his wife Cristina Fernández in Argentina, Tabaré Vázquez and José Mujica in Uruguay, Evo Morales in Bolivia, Daniel Ortega in Nicaragua, Rafael Correa in Ecuador, Fernando Lugo in Paraguay, Manuel Zelaya in Honduras (removed from power by a coup d'état), Mauricio Funes and Salvador Sánchez Cerén in El Salvador are all part of this wave of left-wing politicians who often declare themselves socialists, Latin Americanists, or anti-imperialists (often implying opposition to US policies towards the region). A development of this has been the creation of the eight-member ALBA alliance, or \"The Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America\" (Spanish: \"Alianza Bolivariana para los Pueblos de Nuestra América\") by some of the countries already mentioned. By June 2014, Honduras (Juan Orlando Hernández), Guatemala (Otto Pérez Molina), and Panama (Ricardo Martinelli) had right-wing governments.\n\nIn 1982, Mexico announced that it could not meet its foreign debt payment obligations, inaugurating a debt crisis that would \"discredit\" Latin American economies throughout the decade. This debt crisis would lead to neoliberal reforms that would instigate many social movements in the region. A \"reversal of development\" reigned over Latin America, seen through negative economic growth, declines in industrial production, and thus, falling living standards for the middle and lower classes. Governments made financial security their primary policy goal over social security, enacting new neoliberal economic policies that implemented privatization of previously national industries and informalization of labor. In an effort to bring more investors to these industries, these governments also embraced globalization through more open interactions with the international economy.\n\nSignificantly, as democracy spread across much of Latin America, the realm of government became more inclusive (a trend that proved conducive to social movements), the economic ventures remained exclusive to a few elite groups within society. Neoliberal restructuring consistently redistributed income upward while denying political responsibility to provide social welfare rights, and though development projects took place throughout the region, both inequality and poverty increased. Feeling excluded from these new projects, the lower classes took ownership of their own democracy through a revitalization of social movements in Latin America.\n\nBoth urban and rural populations had serious grievances as a result of the above economic and global trends and have voiced them in mass demonstrations. Some of the largest and most violent of these have been protests against cuts in urban services, such as the Caracazo in Venezuela and the Argentinazo in Argentina.\nRural movements have made diverse demands related to unequal land distribution, displacement at the hands of development projects and dams, environmental and indigenous concerns, neoliberal agricultural restructuring, and insufficient means of livelihood. These movements have benefited considerably from transnational support from conservationists and INGOs. The Movement of Rural Landless Workers (MST) is perhaps the largest contemporary Latin American social movement. As indigenous populations are primarily rural, indigenous movements account for a large portion of rural social movements, including the Zapatista rebellion in Mexico, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), indigenous organizations in the Amazon region of Ecuador and Bolivia, pan-Mayan communities in Guatemala, and mobilization by the indigenous groups of Yanomami peoples in the Amazon, Kuna peoples in Panama, and Altiplano Aymara and Quechua peoples in Bolivia. Other significant types of social movements include labor struggles and strikes, such as recovered factories in Argentina, as well as gender-based movements such as the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo in Argentina and protests against maquila production, which is largely a women's issue because of how it draws on women for cheap labor.\n\nThe 2000s commodities boom caused positive effects for many Latin American economies. Another trend is the rapidly increasing importance of the relations with China.\n\nWith the end of the commodity boom in the 2010s, economic stagnation or recession resulted in some countries. As a result, the left-wing governments of the Pink Tide lost support. The worst-hit was Venezuela, which is facing severe social and economic upheaval.\n\nThe corruption scandal of Odebrecht, a Brazilian conglomerate, has raised allegations of corruption across the region's governments (see Operation Car Wash). The bribery ring has become the largest corruption scandal in Latin American history. As of July 2017, the highest ranking politicians charged were former Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (arrested) and former Peruvian Presidents Ollanta Humala (arrested) and Alejandro Toledo (fugitive, fled to the US).\n\nThe following is a list of the ten largest metropolitan areas in Latin America.\n\nThe inhabitants of Latin America are of a variety of ancestries, ethnic groups, and races, making the region one of the most diverse in the world. The specific composition varies from country to country: some have a predominance of European-Amerindian or more commonly referred to as Mestizo or Castizo depending on the admixture, population; in others, Amerindians are a majority; some are dominated by inhabitants of European ancestry; and some countries' populations are primarily Mulatto. Various black, Asian and Zambo (mixed black and Amerindian) minorities are also identified regularly. People with European ancestry are the largest single group, and along with people of part-European ancestry, they combine to make up approximately 80% of the population, or even more.\n\nAccording to Jon Aske:\n\nAske has also written that:\n\nIn his famous 1963 book \"The Rise of the West\", William Hardy McNeill wrote that:\n\nThomas C. Wright, meanwhile, has written that:\n\nSpanish and Portuguese are the predominant languages of Latin America. Spanish is spoken as first language by about 60% of the population, Portuguese is spoken by about 34% of the population and about 6% of the population speak other languages such as Quechua, Mayan languages, Guaraní, Aymara, Nahuatl, English, French, Dutch and Italian. Portuguese is spoken only in Brazil (Brazilian Portuguese), the biggest and most populous country in the region. Spanish is the official language of most of the rest of the countries and territories on the Latin American mainland (Spanish language in the Americas), as well as in Cuba, Puerto Rico (where it is co-official with English), and the Dominican Republic. French is spoken in Haiti and in the French overseas departments of Guadeloupe, Martinique and Guiana, and the French overseas collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon; it is also spoken by some Panamanians of Afro-Antillean descent. Dutch is the official language in Suriname, Aruba, and the Netherlands Antilles. (As Dutch is a Germanic language, these territories are not necessarily considered part of Latin America.)\n\nAmerindian languages are widely spoken in Peru, Guatemala, Bolivia, Paraguay and Mexico, and to a lesser degree, in Panama, Ecuador, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Argentina, and Chile amongst other countries. In Latin American countries not named above, the population of speakers of indigenous languages tend to be very small or even non-existent (e.g. Uruguay). Mexico is possibly the only country that contains a wider variety of indigenous languages than any Latin American country, but the most spoken language is Nahuatl.\n\nIn Peru, Quechua is an official language, alongside Spanish and any other indigenous language in the areas where they predominate. In Ecuador, while holding no official status, the closely related Quichua is a recognized language of the indigenous people under the country's constitution; however, it is only spoken by a few groups in the country's highlands. In Bolivia, Aymara, Quechua and Guaraní hold official status alongside Spanish. Guaraní, along with Spanish, is an official language of Paraguay, and is spoken by a majority of the population (who are, for the most part, bilingual), and it is co-official with Spanish in the Argentine province of Corrientes. In Nicaragua, Spanish is the official language, but on the country's Caribbean coast English and indigenous languages such as Miskito, Sumo, and Rama also hold official status. Colombia recognizes all indigenous languages spoken within its territory as official, though fewer than 1% of its population are native speakers of these languages. Nahuatl is one of the 62 native languages spoken by indigenous people in Mexico, which are officially recognized by the government as \"national languages\" along with Spanish.\n\nOther European languages spoken in Latin America include: English, by some groups in Puerto Rico, as well as in nearby countries that may or may not be considered Latin American, like Belize and Guyana; German, in southern Brazil, southern Chile, portions of Argentina, Venezuela and Paraguay; Italian, in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, and Uruguay; Ukrainian, Polish and Russian in southern Brazil, and Welsh, in southern Argentina.\nYiddish and Hebrew are possible to be heard around Buenos Aires and São Paulo especially. Non-European or Asian languages include Japanese in Brazil and Peru, Korean in Brazil, Arabic in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and Chile and Chinese throughout South America.\n\nIn several nations, especially in the Caribbean region, creole languages are spoken. The most widely spoken creole language in Latin America and the Caribbean is Haitian Creole, the predominant language of Haiti; it is derived primarily from French and certain West African tongues with Amerindian, English, Portuguese and Spanish influences as well. Creole languages of mainland Latin America, similarly, are derived from European languages and various African tongues.\n\nThe Garifuna language is spoken along the Caribbean coast in Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Belize mostly by the Garifuna people a mixed race Zambo people who were the result of mixing between Indigenous Caribbeans and escaped Black slaves. Primarily an Arawakan language, it has influences from Caribbean and European languages.\n\nArchaeologists have deciphered over 15 pre-Columbian distinct writing systems from mesoamerican societies. the ancient Maya had the most sophisticated textually written language, but since texts were largely confined to the religious and administrative elite, traditions were passed down orally. oral traditions also prevailed in other major indigenous groups including, but not limited to the Aztecs and other Nahuatl speakers, Quechua and Aymara of the Andean regions, the Quiché of Central America, the Tupi-Guaraní in today's Brazil, the Guaraní in Paraguay and the Mapuche in Chile.\n\nThe vast majority of Latin Americans are Christians (90%), mostly Roman Catholics belonging to the Latin Church. About 70% of the Latin American population consider themselves Catholic.\n\nAccording to the detailed Pew multi-country survey in 2014, 69% of the Latin American population is Catholic and 19% is Protestant. Protestants are 26% in Brazil and over 40% in much of Central America. More than half of these are converts from Roman Catholicism.\n\nDue to economic, social and security developments that are affecting the region in recent decades, the focus is now the change from net immigration to net emigration. About 10 million Mexicans live in the United States. 31.7 million Americans listed their ancestry as Mexican as of 2010, or roughly 10% of the population. According to the 2005 Colombian census or DANE, about 3,331,107 Colombians currently live abroad. The number of Brazilians living overseas is estimated at about 2 million people. An estimated 1.5 to two million Salvadorans reside in the United States. At least 1.5 million Ecuadorians have gone abroad, mainly to the United States and Spain. Approximately 1.5 million Dominicans live abroad, mostly in the United States. More than 1.3 million Cubans live abroad, most of them in the United States. It is estimated that over 800,000 Chileans live abroad, mainly in Argentina, the United States, Canada, Australia and Sweden. An estimated 700,000 Bolivians were living in Argentina as of 2006 and another 33,000 in the United States. Central Americans living abroad in 2005 were 3,314,300, of which 1,128,701 were Salvadorans, 685,713 were Guatemalans, 683,520 were Nicaraguans, 414,955 were Hondurans, 215,240 were Panamanians and 127,061 were Costa Ricans.\n\nFor the period 2000–2005, Chile, Costa Rica, Panama, and Venezuela were the only countries with global positive migration rates, in terms of their yearly averages.\n\nAs a result of the 2010 Haiti Earthquake and its social and economic impact, there was a significant migration of Haitians to other Latin American countries. During the presidency of Hugo Chávez and his successor Nicolás Maduro, over 1.5 million people fled Venezuela in what was called the \"Bolivarian diaspora\" as socioeconomic conditions and the quality of life worsened.\n\nDespite significant progress, education access and school completion remains unequal in Latin America. The region has made great progress in educational coverage; almost all children attend primary school and access to secondary education has increased considerably. Quality issues such as poor teaching methods, lack of appropriate equipment and overcrowding exist throughout the region. These issues lead to adolescents dropping out of the educational system early. Most educational systems in the region have implemented various types of administrative and institutional reforms that have enabled reach for places and communities that had no access to education services in the early 1990s. Compared to prior generations, Latin American youth have seen an increase in their levels of education. On average, they have completed two years schooling more than their parents.\n\nHowever, there are still 23 million children in the region between the ages of 4 and 17 outside of the formal education system. Estimates indicate that 30% of preschool age children (ages 4–5) do not attend school, and for the most vulnerable populations, the poor and rural, this calculation exceeds 40 percent. Among primary school age children (ages 6 to 12), coverage is almost universal; however there is still a need to incorporate 5 million children in the primary education system. These children live mostly in remote areas, are indigenous or Afro-descendants and live in extreme poverty.\n\nAmong people between the ages of 13 and 17 years, only 80% are full-time students in the education system; among them only 66% advance to secondary school. These percentages are lower among vulnerable population groups: only 75% of the poorest youth between the ages of 13 and 17 years attend school. Tertiary education has the lowest coverage, with only 70% of people between the ages of 18 and 25 years outside of the education system. Currently, more than half of low income children or living in rural areas fail to complete nine years of education.\n\nLatin America and the Caribbean have been cited by numerous sources to be the most dangerous regions in the world. Studies have shown that Latin America contains the majority of the world's most dangerous cities. Many analysts attribute the reason to why the region has such an alarming crime rate and criminal culture is largely due to social and income inequality within the region, they say that growing social inequality is fueling crime in the region. Many agree that the prison crisis will not be resolved until the gap between the rich and the poor is addressed.\nCrime and violence prevention and public security are now important issues for governments and citizens in Latin America and the Caribbean region. Homicide rates in Latin America are the highest in the world. From the early 1980s through the mid-1990s, homicide rates increased by 50 percent. The major victims of such homicides are young men, 69 percent of whom are between the ages of 15 and 19 years old. Countries with the highest homicide rate per year per 100,000 inhabitants as of 2015 were: El Salvador 109, Honduras 64, Venezuela 57, Jamaica 43, Belize 34.4, St. Kitts and Nevis 34, Guatemala 34, Trinidad & Tobago 31, the Bahamas 30, Brazil 26.7, Colombia 26.5, the Dominican Republic 22, St. Lucia 22, Guyana 19, Mexico 16, Puerto Rico 16, Ecuador 13, Grenada 13, Costa Rica 12, Bolivia 12, Nicaragua 12, Panama 11, Antigua and Barbuda 11, and Haiti 10. Most of the top countries with the highest homicide rates are in Africa and Latin America. Countries in Central America, like El Salvador and Honduras, top the list of homicides in the world.\n\nBrazil has more overall homicides than any country in the world, at 50,108, accounting for one in 10 globally. Crime-related violence in Latin America represents the most threat to public health, striking more victims than HIV/AIDS or other infectious diseases. Countries with lowest homicide rate per year per 100,000 inhabitants as of 2015 were: Chile 3, Peru 7, Argentina 7, Uruguay 8 and Paraguay 9.\n\nAccording to Goldman Sachs' BRICS review of emerging economies, by 2050 the largest economies in the world will be as follows: China, United States, India, Japan, Germany, United Kingdom, Brazil and Mexico.\n\nOver the past two centuries, Latin America’s GDP per capita has fluctuated around world average. However, there is a substantial gap between Latin America and the western economies. Between 1820 and 2008, this gap widened from 0.8 to 2.7 times. Since 1980, Latin America also lost growth versus the world average. Many nations such as those in Asia have joined others on a rapid economic growth path, but Latin America has grown at slower pace and its share of world output declined from 9.5% in 1980 to 7.8% in 2008.\n\nLatin America is the region with the highest levels of income inequality in the world. The following table lists all the countries in Latin America indicating a valuation of the country's Human Development Index, GDP at purchasing power parity per capita, measurement of inequality through the Gini index, measurement of poverty through the Human Poverty Index, measurement of extreme poverty based on people living under 1.25 dollars a day, life expectancy, murder rates and a measurement of safety through the Global Peace Index. Green cells indicate the best performance in each category while red indicates the lowest.\n\nWealth inequality in Latin America and the Caribbean remains a serious issue despite strong economic growth and improved social indicators over the past decade. A report released in 2013 by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs entitled \"Inequality Matters. Report of the World Social Situation\", observed that: ‘Declines in the wage share have been attributed to the impact of labour-saving technological change and to a general weakening of labour market regulations and institutions. Such declines are likely to affect individuals in the middle and bottom of the income distribution disproportionately, since they rely mostly on labour income.’ In addition, the report noted that ‘highly-unequal land distribution has created social and political tensions and is a source of economic inefficiency, as small landholders frequently lack access to credit and other resources to increase productivity, while big owners may not have had enough incentive to do so.\n\nThe major trade blocs (or agreements) in the region are the Pacific Alliance and Mercosur. Minor blocs or trade agreements are the G3 Free Trade Agreement, the Dominican Republic – Central America Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA), the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the Andean Community of Nations (CAN). However, major reconfigurations are taking place along opposing approaches to integration and trade; Venezuela has officially withdrawn from both the CAN and G3 and it has been formally admitted into the Mercosur (pending ratification from the Paraguayan legislature). The president-elect of Ecuador has manifested his intentions of following the same path. This bloc nominally opposes any Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States, although Uruguay has manifested its intention otherwise. Chile, Peru, Colombia and Mexico are the only four Latin American nations that have an FTA with the United States and Canada, both members of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).\n\nIncome from tourism is key to the economy of several Latin American countries. Mexico is the only Latin American country to be ranked in the top 10 worldwide in the number of tourist visits. It received by far the largest number of international tourists, with 39.3 million visitors in 2017, followed by Argentina, with 6.7 million; the Brazil, with 6.6 million; Chile, with 6.5 million; Dominican Republic, with 6.2 million; Cuba with 4.3 million; Peru and Colombia with 4.0 million. The World Tourism Organization reports the following destinations as the top six tourism earners for the year 2017: Mexico, with US$21,333 million; the Dominican Republic, with US$7,178 million; Brazil, with US$6,024 million; Colombia, with US$4,773 million; Argentina, with US$4,687 million; and Panama, with US$4,258 million.\n\nPlaces such as Cancún, Riviera Maya, Galápagos Islands, Punta Cana, Chichen Itza, Cartagena de Indias, Cabo San Lucas, Mexico City, Machu Picchu, Margarita Island, Acapulco, San Ignacio Miní, Santo Domingo, Buenos Aires, Salar de Uyuni, Rio de Janeiro, Punta del Este, Labadee, San Juan, São Paulo,\nLa Habana, Panama City, Iguazú Falls, Puerto Vallarta, Poás Volcano National Park, Viña del Mar, Guanajuato City, Bogotá, Santa Marta, San Andrés, San Miguel de Allende, Lima, Guadalajara, Cuzco, \nPonce and Perito Moreno Glacier are popular among international visitors in the region.\n\nLatin American culture is a mixture of many cultural expressions worldwide. It is the product of many diverse influences:\n\nDue to the impact of Enlightenment ideals after the French revolution, a certain number of Iberian-American countries decriminalized homosexuality after France and French territories in the Americas in 1791. Some of the countries that abolished sodomy laws or banned any reference to state interference in consensual adult sexuality in the 19th century were Dominican Republic (1822), Brazil (1824), Peru (1836), Mexico (1871), Paraguay (1880), Argentina (1887), Honduras (1899), Guatemala and El Salvador. Today gay marriage is legal in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay, and French overseas departments, as well as in some states of Mexico. Civil unions can be held in Ecuador, Chile and one administrative region of Venezuela.\n\n\nBeyond the rich tradition of indigenous art, the development of Latin American visual art owed much to the influence of Spanish, Portuguese and French Baroque painting, which in turn often followed the trends of the Italian Masters. In general, this artistic Eurocentrism began to fade in the early twentieth century, as Latin Americans began to acknowledge the uniqueness of their condition and started to follow their own path.\n\nFrom the early twentieth century, the art of Latin America was greatly inspired by the Constructivist Movement. The Movement quickly spread from Russia to Europe and then into Latin America. Joaquín Torres García and Manuel Rendón have been credited with bringing the Constructivist Movement into Latin America from Europe.\n\nAn important artistic movement generated in Latin America is \"muralism\" represented by Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros, José Clemente Orozco and Rufino Tamayo in Mexico, Santiago Martinez Delgado and Pedro Nel Gómez in Colombia and Antonio Berni in Argentina. Some of the most impressive \"Muralista\" works can be found in Mexico, Colombia, New York City, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Philadelphia.\n\nPainter Frida Kahlo, one of the most famous Mexican artists, painted about her own life and the Mexican culture in a style combining Realism, Symbolism and Surrealism. Kahlo's work commands the highest selling price of all Latin American paintings.\n\nThe Venezuelan Armando Reverón, whose work begins to be recognized internationally, is one of the most important artists of the 20th century in South America; he is a precursor of Arte Povera and Happening. From the 60s the kinetic art emerges in Venezuela, its main representatives are Jesús Soto, Carlos Cruz-Diez, Alejandro Otero and Gego.\n\nColombian sculptor and painter Fernando Botero is also widely known by his works which, on first examination, are noted for their exaggerated proportions and the corpulence of the human and animal figures.\n\nLatin American film is both rich and diverse. Historically, the main centers of production have been Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, and Cuba. Latin American film flourished after sound was introduced in cinema, which added a linguistic barrier to the export of Hollywood film south of the border.\n\nMexican cinema started out in the silent era from 1896 to 1929 and flourished in the Golden Era of the 1940s. It boasted a huge industry comparable to Hollywood at the time with stars such as María Félix, Dolores del Río, and Pedro Infante. In the 1970s, Mexico was the location for many cult horror and action movies. More recently, films such as \"Amores Perros\" (2000) and \"Y tu mamá también\" (2001) enjoyed box office and critical acclaim and propelled Alfonso Cuarón and Alejandro González Iñárritu to the front rank of Hollywood directors. Alejandro González Iñárritu directed in 2010 \"Biutiful\" and \"Birdman\" (2014), Alfonso Cuarón directed \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" in 2004 and \"Gravity\" (2013). Close friend of both, Guillermo del Toro, a top rank Hollywood director in Hollywood and Spain, directed \"Pan's Labyrinth\" (2006) and produced \"El Orfanato\" (2007). Carlos Carrera (\"The Crime of Father Amaro)\", and screenwriter Guillermo Arriaga are also some of the most known present-day Mexican film makers. \"Rudo y Cursi\" released in December (2008) in Mexico was directed by Carlos Cuarón.\nArgentine cinema has also been prominenent since the first half of the 20th century and today averages over 60 full-length titles yearly. The industry suffered during the 1976–1983 military dictatorship; but re-emerged to produce the Academy Award winner \"The Official Story\" in 1985. A wave of imported U.S. films again damaged the industry in the early 1990s, though it soon recovered, thriving even during the Argentine economic crisis around 2001. Many Argentine movies produced during recent years have been internationally acclaimed, including \"Nueve reinas\" (2000), \"Son of the Bride\" (2001), \"El abrazo partido\" (2004), \"El otro\" (2007), the 2010 Foreign Language Academy Award winner \"El secreto de sus ojos\" and \"Wild Tales\" (2014).\n\nIn Brazil, the \"Cinema Novo\" movement created a particular way of making movies with critical and intellectual screenplays, a clearer photography related to the light of the outdoors in a tropical landscape, and a political message. The modern Brazilian film industry has become more profitable inside the country, and some of its productions have received prizes and recognition in Europe and the United States, with movies such as \"Central do Brasil\" (1999), \"Cidade de Deus\" (2002) and \"Tropa de Elite\" (2007).\n\nPuerto Rican cinema has produced some notable films, such as \"Una Aventura Llamada Menudo\", \"Los Diaz de Doris\" and \"Casi Casi\". An influx of Hollywood films affected the local film industry in Puerto Rico during the 1980s and 1990s, but several Puerto Rican films have been produced since and it has been recovering.\n\nCuban cinema has enjoyed much official support since the Cuban revolution and important film-makers include Tomás Gutiérrez Alea.\n\nPre-Columbian cultures were primarily oral, though the Aztecs and Mayans, for instance, produced elaborate codices. Oral accounts of mythological and religious beliefs were also sometimes recorded after the arrival of European colonizers, as was the case with the Popol Vuh. Moreover, a tradition of oral narrative survives to this day, for instance among the Quechua-speaking population of Peru and the Quiché (K'iche') of Guatemala.\n\nFrom the very moment of Europe's discovery of the continents, early explorers and conquistadores produced written accounts and crónicas of their experiencesuch as Columbus's letters or Bernal Díaz del Castillo's description of the conquest of Mexico. During the colonial period, written culture was often in the hands of the church, within which context Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz wrote memorable poetry and philosophical essays. Towards the end of the 18th Century and the beginning of the 19th, a distinctive criollo literary tradition emerged, including the first novels such as Lizardi's \"El Periquillo Sarniento\" (1816).\n\nThe 19th century was a period of \"foundational fictions\" (in critic Doris Sommer's words), novels in the Romantic or Naturalist traditions that attempted to establish a sense of national identity, and which often focussed on the indigenous question or the dichotomy of \"civilization or barbarism\" (for which see, say, Domingo Sarmiento's \"Facundo\" (1845), Juan León Mera's \"Cumandá\" (1879), or Euclides da Cunha's \"Os Sertões\" (1902)). The 19th century also witnessed the realist work of Machado de Assis, who made use of surreal devices of metaphor and playful narrative construction, much admired by critic Harold Bloom.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, \"modernismo\" emerged, a poetic movement whose founding text was Nicaraguan poet Rubén Darío's \"Azul\" (1888). This was the first Latin American literary movement to influence literary culture outside of the region, and was also the first truly Latin American literature, in that national differences were no longer so much at issue. José Martí, for instance, though a Cuban patriot, also lived in Mexico and the United States and wrote for journals in Argentina and elsewhere.\n\nHowever, what really put Latin American literature on the global map was no doubt the literary boom of the 1960s and 1970s, distinguished by daring and experimental novels (such as Julio Cortázar's \"Rayuela\" (1963)) that were frequently published in Spain and quickly translated into English. The Boom's defining novel was Gabriel García Márquez's \"Cien años de soledad\" (1967), which led to the association of Latin American literature with magic realism, though other important writers of the period such as the Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa and Carlos Fuentes do not fit so easily within this framework. Arguably, the Boom's culmination was Augusto Roa Bastos's monumental \"Yo, el supremo\" (1974). In the wake of the Boom, influential precursors such as Juan Rulfo, Alejo Carpentier, and above all Jorge Luis Borges were also rediscovered.\n\nContemporary literature in the region is vibrant and varied, ranging from the best-selling Paulo Coelho and Isabel Allende to the more avant-garde and critically acclaimed work of writers such as Diamela Eltit, Giannina Braschi, Ricardo Piglia, or Roberto Bolaño. There has also been considerable attention paid to the genre of testimonio, texts produced in collaboration with subaltern subjects such as Rigoberta Menchú. Finally, a new breed of chroniclers is represented by the more journalistic Carlos Monsiváis and Pedro Lemebel.\n\nThe region boasts six Nobel Prize winners: in addition to the two Chilean poets Gabriela Mistral (1945) and Pablo Neruda (1971), there is also the Guatemalan novelist Miguel Angel Asturias (1967), the Colombian writer Gabriel García Márquez (1982), the Mexican poet and essayist Octavio Paz (1990), and the Peruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa (2010).\n\nLatin America has produced many successful worldwide artists in terms of recorded global music sales. Among the most successful have been Juan Gabriel (Mexico) only Latin American musician to have sold over 200 million records worldwide, Gloria Estefan (Cuba), Carlos Santana, Luis Miguel (Mexico) of whom have sold over 90 million records, Shakira (Colombia) and Vicente Fernández (Mexico) with over 50 million records sold worldwide. Enrique Iglesias, although not a Latin American, has also contributed for the success of Latin music.\n\nOther notable successful mainstream acts through the years, include RBD, Celia Cruz, Soda Stereo, Thalía, Ricky Martin, Maná, Marc Anthony, Ricardo Arjona, Selena, and Menudo.\n\nCaribbean Hispanic music, such as merengue, bachata, salsa, and more recently reggaeton, from such countries as the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Trinidad and Tobago, Cuba, and Panama, has been strongly influenced by African rhythms and melodies. Haiti's compas is a genre of music that is influenced by its Caribbean Hispanic counterparts, along with elements of jazz and modern sounds.\nAnother well-known Latin American musical genre includes the Argentine and Uruguayan tango (with Carlos Gardel as the greatest exponent), as well as the distinct nuevo tango, a fusion of tango, acoustic and electronic music popularized by bandoneón virtuoso Ástor Piazzolla. Samba, North American jazz, European classical music and choro combined to form \"bossa nova\" in Brazil, popularized by guitarist João Gilberto with singer Astrud Gilberto and pianist Antonio Carlos Jobim.\n\nOther influential Latin American sounds include the Antillean soca and calypso, the Honduras (Garifuna) punta, the Colombian cumbia and vallenato, the Chilean cueca, the Ecuadorian boleros, and rockoleras, the Mexican ranchera and the mariachi which is the epitome of Mexican soul, the Nicaraguan palo de Mayo, the Peruvian marinera and tondero, the Uruguayan candombe, the French Antillean zouk (derived from Haitian compas) and the various styles of music from pre-Columbian traditions that are widespread in the Andean region.\nThe classical composer Heitor Villa-Lobos (1887–1959) worked on the recording of native musical traditions within his homeland of Brazil. The traditions of his homeland heavily influenced his classical works. Also notable is the recent work of the Cuban Leo Brouwer and guitar work of the Venezuelan Antonio Lauro and the Paraguayan Agustín Barrios. Latin America has also produced world-class classical performers such as the Chilean pianist Claudio Arrau, Brazilian pianist Nelson Freire and the Argentine pianist and conductor Daniel Barenboim. Brazilian opera soprano Bidu Sayão, one of Brazil's most famous musicians, was a leading artist of the Metropolitan Opera in New York City from 1937 to 1952.\n\nArguably, the main contribution to music entered through folklore, where the true soul of the Latin American and Caribbean countries is expressed. Musicians such as Yma Súmac, Chabuca Granda, Atahualpa Yupanqui, Violeta Parra, Víctor Jara, Jorge Cafrune, Facundo Cabral, Mercedes Sosa, Jorge Negrete, Luiz Gonzaga, Caetano Veloso, Susana Baca, Chavela Vargas, Simon Diaz, Julio Jaramillo, Toto la Momposina, Gilberto Gil, Maria Bethânia, Nana Caymmi, Nara Leão, Gal Costa, Ney Matogrosso as well as musical ensembles such as Inti Illimani and Los Kjarkas are magnificent examples of the heights that this soul can reach.\n\nLatin pop, including many forms of rock, is popular in Latin America today (see Spanish language rock and roll). A few examples are Café Tacuba, Soda Stereo, Maná, Rita Lee, Mutantes, Secos e Molhados Legião Urbana, Titãs, Paralamas do Sucesso, Cazuza, Barão Vermelho, Skank, Miranda!, Cansei de Ser Sexy or CSS, and Bajo Fondo.\n\nMore recently, reggaeton, which blends Jamaican reggae and dancehall with Latin America genres such as bomba and plena, as well as hip hop, is becoming more popular, in spite of the controversy surrounding its lyrics, dance steps (Perreo) and music videos. It has become very popular among populations with a \"migrant culture\" influence – both Latino populations in the United States, such as southern Florida and New York City, and parts of Latin America where migration to the United States is common, such as Trinidad and Tobago, Dominican Republic, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, and Mexico.\n\nThe following is a list of the ten countries with the most World Heritage Sites in Latin America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4588007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588007", "title": "Leader of the Opposition (Tasmania)", "text": "Leader of the Opposition (Tasmania)\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania is the title of the leader of the largest minority party in the state lower house, the Tasmanian House of Assembly. He or she acts as the public face of the opposition, leads the opposition on the floor of parliament. They thus act as a chief critic of the government and ultimately attempt to portray the opposition as a feasible alternate government. They are also given certain additional rights under parliamentary standing orders, such as extended time limits for speeches. Should the opposition win an election, the Leader of the Opposition will usually be nominated to become the Premier of Tasmania.\n\nThe position of Leader of the Opposition was essentially informal throughout the nineteenth century, with formal recognition only being granted in the early twentieth century. As there was no party system until 1909, the loose ideological blocs in parliament tended to change regularly, and few people lasted in the position for more than one or two years at a time. The development of a party system gave the role greater significance, and it was subsequently given greater formal recognition, with an additional salary payment being accommodated for in 1927 and formal recognition in the parliamentary standing orders in 1937.\n\nThe current Leader of the Opposition is Rebecca White of the Labor Party. She has been in the role since 17 March 2017, having been elected unopposed after the resignation of Bryan Green.\n\n"}
{"id": "7876900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876900", "title": "Lewicki", "text": "Lewicki\n\nLewicki (feminine form: Lewicka) is a Polish-language surname. The surname may have several origins. It can be a patronymic surname from a diminutive of the Polish given name \"Lew\" \"Lion\" or the nickname \"Lewek\" \"Left-handed\". It can also be derived from either of the towns called Lewiczyn or, as a Jewish surname, from the meaning \"of the Levites\". \n\nOther transliterations of the same surname include Levitzki, Levitsky and Lewycky/Lewycka\n\nIt may refer to\n\n"}
{"id": "13000397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13000397", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in South America", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in South America\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57475632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57475632", "title": "List of Northern Mariana Islands territorial symbols", "text": "List of Northern Mariana Islands territorial symbols\n\nThis is a list of Northern Mariana Islands territorial symbols:\n"}
{"id": "19741001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19741001", "title": "List of USSR navy flags", "text": "List of USSR navy flags\n\nThis is a list of naval flags of the USSR. The part of translation is made by the robot In the column «Date» dates of issue of flags are given.\n\n"}
{"id": "21137922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21137922", "title": "List of islands of Chile", "text": "List of islands of Chile\n\nThis is a list of the islands of Chile, the islands that the government of Chile has sovereignty over. The information regarding the islands of Chile on this page is compiled from the data supplied by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Country Files (GNS).\n\nThis list contains only:\n\nThis list doesn't include Chilean claims in the Antarctica. See List of Antarctic and subantarctic islands.\n\nThe objects in NGA are named with generics like \"isla\", \"isla de/los/las\", \"islote\", \"islita\", \"isleta\", \"island\", \"islet\", \"islets\", \"rocks\", \"islas\", \"islotes\", \"islas de\", \"Archipiélago\", \"Grupo\". This list contains only one generic for each feature.\n\nFor more information about the island search in GeoNames Search, using the Unique Feature Id (UFI) in the \"Advanced Search\" Form.\n\nThe following Chilean islands are not listed by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency:\n\n\nOf course Elizabeth Island (Cape Horn), Podesta (island), Pactolus Bank or other phantom islands are not listed. Gable Island is listed by NGA as a Chilean Island, but it is Argentine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40410739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40410739", "title": "List of monuments in Metropolis 2, Kathmandu", "text": "List of monuments in Metropolis 2, Kathmandu\n\nThis is a list of Monuments in Kathmandu Metropolis -2, officially recognized by and available through the website of the Department of Archaeology, Nepal in the Kathmandu District. Kathmandu is historically rich city. Hindu temples are the main attraction of this Metropolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2112786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2112786", "title": "List of supercontinents", "text": "List of supercontinents\n\nThis is a list of supercontinents.\n\nThe list is written in reverse-chronological order (\"stratolithic order\"). Dates are given as the approximate beginning of the formation of the supercontinent; dates in parentheses are approximate date of the fully formed supercontinent. The Notes column provides the geologic time period of the fully formed supercontinent. \n\n"}
{"id": "54204858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54204858", "title": "List of the highest major summits of Azerbaijan", "text": "List of the highest major summits of Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is nearly surrounded by mountains. The Greater Caucasus range lies to the northeast along the border with Russia and extends into northeastern Azerbaijan and runs southeast to the Absheron Peninsula. The Lesser Caucasus range lies to the west along the border with Armenia and the Talysh Mountains lies to the south along the border with Iran. There are mineral springs and very active mud volcanoes in Kobustan Mountain which is situated near Baku. The highest peaks in the Republic of Azerbaijan are situated in the Greater Caucasus, the Lesser Caucasus and Talysh mountain systems. The highest peak in the Republic of Azerbaijan is Bazarduzu (4,466 metres (14,656 ft).\n\nGreater Caucasus mountain systems stretch for about 1,200 kilometers from west-northwest to east-southeast, between the Taman Peninsula of Black Sea to the Absheron Peninsula of the Caspian Sea. Greater Caucasus ridg is not crossed with any river valleys. Therefore it is also called Watershed ridge. Most part of the ridge elevation is over 3000m high:\n\nThe spurs of the Lesser Caucasus (also called Little Caucasus, Russian Maliy Kavkaz) in southwestern Azerbaijan includes Shahdagh, Murovdagh, Karabagh Upland, Mikhtoken, Eastern Goyche, Dereleyez and Zangezur ridges, most of Most of the Karabakh volcanic plateau, Bashkend- Destefur saddle.\n\nTalysh mountains (Azerbaijani: Talış dağları, Талыш дағлары, تالش داغلارى; Persian: کوههای تالش‎‎, Kuhhâye Tâleš) lies southeastward from the Lankaran Lowland in southeastern Azerbaijan to the lower part of the Sefid Rud in northwestern Iran.The Talysh mountains include Talysh, Peshteser and Burovar ridges. A few peaks rise above 3,000 m.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23265973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23265973", "title": "Matangi, Tokelau", "text": "Matangi, Tokelau\n\nMatangi is an islet of the Fakaofo island group of Tokelau.\n\n"}
{"id": "17645907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17645907", "title": "Miango", "text": "Miango\n\nMiango is a town in Plateau State, in central Nigeria.\n\nMiango is a village in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. The natives of this village are the irigwe people, who are very hospitable and friendly. There are a lot of tourist attractions in the village like water falls, high hills, the miango rest home etc. In the early 1900s the SIM Missionaries came to the area and established the Miango Rest Home. Miango rest home which is closer to ENOS HOSPITAL, the only massive licensed hospital in the community which started operations in 2011. Christianity was brought to the region by ECWA missionaries who also built churches and a couple of schools.\n\nMiango and the surrounding communities has a population of over 20,000 people, more than 50% of which are women and children.\n\nThough the region is sometimes plagued by religious crisis, Miango people are very friendly and industrious. Many of them are farmers and are responsible for supplying enormous amounts off eggs, fresh red pepper, maize, tomatoes, big sized Irish and sweet potatoes, carrots, cabbages, water melon, cucumber, wheat and bean to the rest of Nigeria. \n\nOn 8 September 2017, Fulani tribesmen attacked and killed twenty Christians in an apparent reprisal attack in the village of Ancha, Miango District. A week earlier, a young Fulani boy from Ancha had been found murdered in a nearby village. The Muslim Fulani believed that the boy had been killed by Christians from Ancha, a fact that the locals strongly denied. Nineteen members of Ancha's Salama Baptist Church were among those killed.\n"}
{"id": "38608114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38608114", "title": "Micro-irrigation", "text": "Micro-irrigation\n\nMicro-irrigation, also called localised irrigation, low volume irrigation, low-flow irrigation, or trickle irrigation is an irrigation method with lower pressure and flow than a traditional sprinkler system. Low volume irrigation is used in agriculture for row crops, orchards, and vineyards. It is also used in horticulture in wholesale nurseries, in landscaping for civic, commercial, and private landscapes and gardens, and in the science and practice of restoration ecology and environmental remediation. \n\nThere are several types of micro-irrigation systems. Many of the components are the same for all of these types of systems. Most systems typically include filters, pipes, valves, and tubing. The main difference is in the type of emission device that is used to deliver the water to the plants. Drip irrigation utilizes drip emitters that deliver water at very low rates. The typical range is 0.2 to 4.0 gallons per hour. In some systems, the emitters are installed manually on the outside of the tubing and placed where needed. Other systems might use integral dripperline or drip tape with the emitters already installed at a predetermined spacing. Micro-sprinklers, which can include fixed stream sprays and rotating spinners typically deliver water at a higher rate, such as 10 to 25 gallons per hour and will cover a larger area than drip emitters. These are more typically used in tree orchards where the plants are larger.\nThe goal is to distribute water slowly in small volumes and target it to plants' root zones with less runoff or overspray than landscape and garden conventional spray and rotary sprinklers. The low volume allows the water to penetrate and be absorbed into slow-percolation soils, such as clay, minimizing water runoff.\n\nThere are a wide variety of system components included in a micro-irrigation systems. Most systems include a filter. These may include pre-filters, sand separators, media filters, screen filters, and disc filters. The level of filtration required depends on the size of the emission device and the quality of the water source. A pressure regulator or regulating valve may be required to reduce the system pressure to the desired level. Automatic or manually operated valves will be required to switch from one irrigated section to another. An irrigation controller will be used with automatic systems and may also be needed for backflushing the filter or sand separator. Since water conservation is a frequent reason for choosing micro-irrigation systems, soil moisture sensors, rain shutoff sensors, and sometimes even weather stations may be installed.\n\nMicrotubing is one of the oldest types of drip irrigation devices and was used in greenhouses in the 1970s. It consists of a very small diameter tubing. Flow is regulated purely by the length and diameter of the tubing. Weights or stakes are sometimes attached to the end of the tubing to keep it in place.\n\nLow-flow irrigation systems in gardens using drip apply water through two methods:\n\nLow volume irrigation systems often use the two delivery components of drip systems to apply water through small holes in small diameter tubes placed on or below the surface of the field. This is done instead of agricultural surface irrigation and furrow irrigation for vegetables, fruits and berries, and other high-value crops.\n\nTrickle emitters, also called 'spider sprays,' come in fixed or adjustable radius shapes and diameters, and are installed directly on the flexible supply pipe or on tubing connected to it, and mounted on small stakes. Trickle emitter-'Spider sprays' work well for plants with more fibrous root systems, tree and large shrub basins, and in pots and container gardens - allowing automated watering of plants on decks and patios. Mist emitters can also be used in pot, both on the ground and hanging, with humidity-fog watering for epiphytes and ferns replicating habitats.\n\nIn the Horticulture industry, wholesale growers and plant nurseries often use the trickle emitters for and larger container stock, to automate watering. Attached to longer supply tubing on short stakes, they are easily movable to new containers when stock is moved or sold. Mist emitters are used for propagation, epiphytes, and other plants needing higher humidity.\n\nLow volume micro-sprinklers may be attached to hard plastic risers or attached to standard sprinkler heads, but are more typically mounted on stakes and attached to small diameter micro-tubing connected to polyethylene tubing with a barbed connector. Some micro-sprinklers have a fixed spray or stream pattern, while others rotate. These are installed above ground and are often used for fruit and nut orchards and vineyards. These systems are expensive, even for large-scale agricultural use, and are predominantly used for high-value crops. \n\nLow-flow irrigation systems are used on some native plant habitat restoration and environmental remediation projects. The lower operating pressure can be the only choice for remote locations with wells or small storage tank water sources. It is used in temporary installations during initial establishment periods, and being on the soil surface easily removable with minimal damage to the recovering plant community. An example is its use in riparian zone restoration, and environmental remediation projects using Phytoremediation and Bioremediation techniques. \n\nAs municipal and agricultural water supplies become more limited; through increased population demands, droughts, and climate change; city, water district, and state-province level regulations and codes are beginning to encourage, offer rebates with use, or mandate significantly reduced water allowances, at higher costs, that are bringing many water conservation products and techniques both to the forefront and more competitively matched to traditional irrigation system costs. \n\nUse of micro-irrigation systems on green building candidate projects can help them to accumulate points for LEED - (\"Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design\") certification rating and awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6855629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6855629", "title": "Mobile country code", "text": "Mobile country code\n\nThe ITU-T Recommendation E.212 defines mobile country codes (MCC) as well as mobile network codes (MNC).\n\nThe mobile country code consists of three decimal digits and the mobile network code consists of two or three decimal digits (for example: MNC of 001 is not the same as MNC of 01). The first digit of the mobile country code identifies the geographic region as follows (the digits 1 and 8 are not used):\n\n\nAn MCC is used in combination with an MNC (a combination known as an \"MCC/MNC tuple\") to uniquely identify a mobile network operator (carrier) using the GSM (including GSM-R), UMTS, and LTE public land mobile networks. Some but not all CDMA, iDEN, and satellite mobile networks are identified with an MCC/MNC tuple as well. For WiMAX networks, a globally unique Broadband Operator ID can be derived from the MCC/MNC tuple. TETRA networks use the mobile country code from ITU-T Recommendation E.212 together with a 10-bit binary mobile network code. However, a TETRA network may be assigned an E.212 network code as well. Some network operators do not have their own radio access network at all. These are called mobile virtual network operators (MVNO) and are marked in the tables as such. Note that MVNOs without their own MCC/MNC (that is, they share the MCC/MNC of their host network) are not listed here.\n\nThe following tables attempt to provide a complete list of mobile network operators. Country information, including ISO 3166-1 country codes is provided for completeness. Mostly for historical reasons, one E.212 MCC may correspond to multiple ISO country codes (e.g. MCC 362 corresponds to BQ, CW, and SX). Some operators also choose to use an MCC outside the geographic area that it was assigned to (e.g. Digicel uses the Jamaica MCC throughout the Caribbean). ITU-T publishes an official list of mobile network codes from time to time in the Operational Bulletin. Unfortunately, the official list is often incomplete as national MNC Authorities do not forward changes to the ITU in a timely manner. The official list does not provide additional details such as bands and technologies and may not list disputed territories such as Abkhazia or Kosovo.\n\nSee Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha\n\nSee Former Netherlands Antilles\nSee Former Netherlands Antilles\nSee French Antilles, the assigned MCC 742 is not used.\nSee French Antilles\nSee French Antilles\nSee French Indian Ocean Territories.\nOfficial Norwegian allocations:\n\nSee French Indian Ocean Territories.\nSee French Antilles\nSee French Antilles\nSee Former Netherlands Antilles\nSee Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20091106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20091106", "title": "Monegros", "text": "Monegros\n\nLos Monegros is a comarca in Aragon, Spain. It is located within the provinces of Zaragoza and Huesca. The area is prone to chronic droughts, and much of the area is a natural region made up of badlands.\n\nLos Monegros borders seven comarcas: Hoya de Huesca to the North; Somontano de Barbastro, Cinca Medio, and Bajo Cinca to the East; Zaragoza to the West; and Ribera Baja del Ebro and Bajo Aragón-Caspe to the South.\n\nThe Sierra de Alcubierre mountain chain crosses the comarca from Northwest to Southeast. Its maximum elevation is 822 meters, at the mountain called \"Oscuro\". The climate is semiarid, with scarce rainfall and high temperatures in the autumn. The area has numerous saltwater and freshwater lakes, including the Lake of Sariñena and the Lake of la Playa.\n\nThe area's cultural heritage includes several historical monasteries, including the Monasterio de Santa María de Sigena and the Charterhouse of Las Fuentes.\n\nIn December 2007, the local government announced that the comarca had been chosen for the site of the Gran Scala, a huge European project to build a \"destination city of leisure for all ages.\" Designed to include numerous theme parks and casinos, the area would become one of the primary entertainment centers of Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381121", "title": "Mount Lebanon", "text": "Mount Lebanon\n\nMount Lebanon (, \"jabal lubnān\", ; , \"\", ) is a mountain range in Lebanon. It averages above in elevation.\n\nThe Mount Lebanon range extends along the entire country for about , parallel to the Mediterranean coast. Their highest peak is Qurnat as Sawda', at . The range receives a substantial amount of precipitation, including snow, which averages around deep.\n\nLebanon has historically been defined by the mountains, which provided protection for the local population. In Lebanon, changes in scenery are related less to geographical distances than to altitudes. The mountains were known for their oak and pine forests. The last remaining old growth groves of the famous Cedar of Lebanon (\"Cedrus libani\" var. libanii\") are on the high slopes of Mount Lebanon, in the Cedars of God World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Phoenicians used the forests from Mount Lebanon to build their ship fleet and to trade with their Levantine neighbors. The Phoenicians and successor rulers consistently replanted and restocked the range; even as late as the 16th century, its forested area was considerable.\n\nThe name \"Mount Lebanon\" traces back to the Semitic root \"LBN\", meaning \"white\", likely a reference to the snow-covered mountains.\n\nMount Lebanon is mentioned in the Old Testament several times. King Hiram I of Tyre sent engineers with Cedar wood which was abundant in Mount Lebanon, to build the Jewish Temple of Jerusalem. Since then the Cedar species known scientifically as \"Cedrus libani\" is often associated with Mount Lebanon. The Phoenicians used cedar to build ships in which they sailed the Mediterranean, thus they were the first to establish villages in Mount Lebanon and would live from cutting down Cedars and sending them to the coast.\n\nEusebius records that the Emperor Constantine destroyed a temple of Venus 'on the summit of Mount Lebanon.'\nAfter the 5th century AD, Christian monks who were followers of a hermit named Maron, arrived from the Orontes valley in Northern Syria and began preaching their religion to the inhabitants of the northernmost parts of the mountain range. In the late 8th century a group known as the Mardaites (also Jarajima) settled in North Lebanon following the order of the Byzantine Emperor; their mission was to raid Islamic territories in Syria. They merged with the local population, refusing to leave after the emperor struck a deal with the Muslim Caliph of Damascus; thus, they became part of the Maronite society. In 1291 after the fall of Acre, the last crusader outpost in the Levant, the remnants of the European settlers who succeeded in escaping capture by the Mamelukes, settled in the Northern part of Lebanon and become part of the Maronite society.\n\nIn the 9th century AD, tribes from the \"Jabal el Summaq\" area north of Aleppo in Syria began settling the southern half of the mountain range. These tribes were known as the Tanoukhiyoun and in the 11th century they converted to the Druze faith and ruled the areas of Mount Lebanon stretching from Metn in the north to Jezzine in the south. This entire area became known as the ‘Jabal ad-Duruz’. In the early 17th century, Emir Fakhr-al-Din II ascended the throne in the Druze part of the mountains known as the Chouf. In an effort to unify Mount Lebanon, Emir Fakhreddine opened the door to Christians and in particular the Maronite settlement of the Chouf and Metn.\n\nThroughout the 18th century and into the 19th century more and more Maronites settled in the Druze regions of the Mount. The Druze viewed these Maronite settlements as a threat to their power in Mount Lebanon and in a series of clashes in the 1840s and 1860s, a miniature civil war erupted in the area resulting in the massacre of thousands of Christians. The Druze won militarily, but not politically, because European powers (mainly France and Britain) intervened on behalf of the Maronites and divided Mount Lebanon into two areas; Druze and Maronite. Seeing their authority decline in Mount Lebanon, a few Lebanese Druze began migrating to the new Jabal ad-Duruz in southern Syria. In 1861, the \"Mount Lebanon\" autonomous district was established within the Ottoman system, under an international guarantee.\n\nFor centuries, the Maronites of the region have been protected by the noble Khazen family, which was endowed the responsibility by Pope Clement X and King Louis XIV and given \"Cheikh\" status in return for guarding the princes Fakhr-al-Din II and Younès al-Maani. The Khazen crest reflects the family's special closeness to Mount Lebanon, with snowy mountains and a cedar tree depicted.\n\nMount Lebanon also lent its name to two political designations: a semi-autonomous province in Ottoman Syria that existed since 1516 and the central Governorate of modern Lebanon (see Mount Lebanon Governorate). The Mount Lebanon administrative region emerged in a time of rise of nationalism after the civil war of 1860: France intervened on behalf of the local Christian population and Britain on behalf of the Druze after the 1860 massacres, when 10,000 Christians were killed in clashes with the Druze. In 1861 the \"Mount Lebanon\" autonomous district was established within the Ottoman system, under an international guarantee. It was ruled by a non-Lebanese Christian subject of the Ottoman Empire known locally as the \"Mutasarrıf\", (one who rules the district Mutasarrifiyya). Christians formed the majority of the population of Mount Lebanon, with a significant number of Druze.\n\nFor decades the Christians pressured the European powers, to award them self determination by extending their small Lebanese territory to what they dubbed \"Greater Lebanon\", referring to a geographic unit comprising Mount Lebanon and its coast, and the Beqaa Valley to its east. After the First World War, France took hold of the formerly Ottoman holdings in the northern Levant, and expanded the borders of Mount Lebanon in 1920 to form Greater Lebanon, which was to be populated by remnants of the Middle Eastern Christian community. While the Christians ended up gaining territorially, the new borders merely ended the demographic dominance of Christians in the newly created territory of Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "30322765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30322765", "title": "Ngeremasch", "text": "Ngeremasch\n\nNgeremasch (also spelled Ngaramasch) is a village in Palau, and the capital of the state of Angaur. Ngaramasch is located west of the runway of Angaur, there are also ferries that connect Angaur to Koror. The population in 2009 was 135. The village was formerly known as Saipan Town.\n"}
{"id": "48850253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48850253", "title": "Nupchu Glacier", "text": "Nupchu Glacier\n\nThe Nupchu Glacier is located in the eastern Himalayas in Nepal. It is north of Kanchenjunga.\n"}
{"id": "35286719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35286719", "title": "Otto Schulz-Kampfhenkel", "text": "Otto Schulz-Kampfhenkel\n\nOtto Schulz-Kampfhenkel (27 August 1910 – 21 August 1989) was a German geographer, explorer, writer and film producer.\n\nAt the age of 23 Schulz-Kampfhenkel made an expedition to Liberia. He described his experiences in the book \"Das Dschungel Rief... (The Jungle Called...)\". After finishing his geography studies he became the leader of a Amazon-Jari-Expedition (1935-1937), supported by both Brazilian and German governments and the Nazi party's Foreign Organization (NSDAP/AO). Schulz-Kampfhenkel relates about this expedition in his book \"Rätsel der Urwaldhölle (Riddle(s) of the jungle hell)\" and produced an eponymous film, as well.\n\nIn 1943 Schulz-Kampfhenkel got promoted to \"Special Commissioner of geographical questions in the Reichsforschungsrat\" after he had been lieutenant of Luftwaffe and SS-Untersturmführer.\n\n"}
{"id": "16283394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283394", "title": "Outline of Ascension Island", "text": "Outline of Ascension Island\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Ascension Island:\n\nAscension Island – island in the South Atlantic Ocean, around 966 miles (1,600 km) from the coast of Africa. It is part of the British overseas territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha; Saint Helena itself is 800 miles (1,287 km) to the south east. The Island is named after the day of its recorded discovery, Ascension Day. It is located at 7.56° S, 14.25° W.\n\nThe island is the location of Wideawake Airfield, which is a joint facility of the Royal Air Force and the United States Air Force.\n\n\nGeography of Ascension Island\n\n\n\nRegions of Ascension Island\n\nList of ecoregions in Ascension Island\n\"None\".\n\nDemographics of Ascension Island\n\n\nGovernment of Ascension Island\n\n\nCourt system of Saint Helena\n\nForeign relations of Ascension Island\n\nLaw of Ascension Island\n\n\nLocal government in Ascension Island\n\nHistory of Ascension Island\n\nCulture of Ascension Island\n\n\nSports in Ascension Island\n\nEconomy of Ascension Island\n\nEducation in Ascension Island\n\nAscension Island\n\n"}
{"id": "16278576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278576", "title": "Outline of Cyprus", "text": "Outline of Cyprus\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Cyprus:\n\nCyprus – Eurasian island country located in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, east of Greece, south of Turkey, west of Syria and Lebanon, northwest of Israel and north of Egypt. Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea and the Republic of Cyprus is a member state of the European Union.\n\n\nGeography of Cyprus\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Cyprus\n\nDistricts of Cyprus\n\n\nDemographics of Cyprus\n\nPolitics of Cyprus\n\nGovernment of Cyprus\n\n\n\nCourt system of Cyprus\n\nForeign relations of Cyprus\n\nThe Republic of Cyprus is a member of:\n\nLaw of Cyprus\n\nCypriot National Guard\n\nLocal government in Cyprus\n\nHistory of Cyprus\n\n\n\n\nCivilian casualties and displacements during the Cyprus conflict\n\nCulture of Cyprus\n\n\nPeople of Cyprus\n\nReligion in Cyprus\n\nSports in Cyprus\n\nEconomy of Cyprus\n\n\nCommunications in Cyprus\n\nEnergy in Cyprus\n\nTransport in Cyprus\n\nEducation in Cyprus\n\nHealth in Cyprus\n\nCyprus\n\n\nAir Ambulance Cyprus\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278929", "title": "Outline of Laos", "text": "Outline of Laos\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Laos:\n\nLaos – landlocked sovereign country located in Southeast Asia. Laos borders Burma (Myanmar) and China to the northwest, Vietnam to the east, Cambodia to the south, and Thailand to the west. Laos traces its history to the Kingdom of Lan Xang or \"Land of a Million Elephants\", which existed from the fourteenth to the eighteenth century. After a period as a French protectorate, it gained independence in 1949. A long civil war ended officially when the communist Pathet Lao movement came to power in 1975 but the protesting between factions continued for several years.\n\nPrivate enterprise has increased since the late 1990s when economic reforms including rapid business licensing were introduced. Laos is still ranked among the lowest countries in terms of economic and political freedom. The economy of Laos grew at 7.2% in 2006, 35th fastest in the world. Eighty percent of the employed practice subsistence agriculture. The country's ethnic make-up is diverse, with around 70% belonging to the largest ethnic group, the Lao.\n\n\nGeography of Laos\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Laos\n\nAdministrative divisions of Laos\n\nProvinces of Laos\n\nDistricts of Laos\n\n\nDemographics of Laos\n\nPolitics of Laos\n\nGovernment of Laos\n\n\n\nCourt system of Laos\n\nForeign relations of Laos\n\nThe Lao People's Democratic Republic is a member of:\n\nLaw of Laos\n\nMilitary of Laos\n\nHistory of Laos\n\nCulture of Laos\n\n\nSports in Laos\n\nEconomy of Laos\n\nEducation in Laos\n\nHealth in Laos\n\nLaos\n"}
{"id": "351603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351603", "title": "Piloting (navigation)", "text": "Piloting (navigation)\n\nPiloting (on water) or pilotage (in the air also British English) or land navigation is navigating, using fixed points of reference on the sea or on land, usually with reference to a nautical chart, aeronautical chart or topographic map, to obtain a fix of the position of the vessel, aircraft or land traveler with respect to a desired course or location. Horizontal fixes of position from known reference points may be obtained by sight or by radar. Vertical fixes of position may be obtained by depth sounder or by altimeter. Piloting is usually practiced close to shore or on inland waterways. Pilotage is practiced under visual meteorological conditions for flight. Divers use related techniques for underwater navigation.\n\nDepending on whether one is navigating on a water course, in the air or on land, a different chart applies for the navigator:\n\n\nCoastal mariners often use reference manuals, called \"pilots\" for navigating coastal waters. In addition to providing descriptions of shipping channels and coastal profiles, they discuss weather, currents and other topics of interest to mariners. Notable guides include a worldwide series of \"Sailing Directions\" by the United Kingdom Hydrographic Office (formerly by the British Admiralty) that includes, most notably, the English Channel, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. Another series worldwide series of Sailing Directions is by the US National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, which has planning guide and enroute portions. The \"United States Coast Pilot\", by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Coast Survey, covers the coastal and intracoastal waters and the Great Lakes of the United States.\n\nCommon types of visual reference point used for piloting and pilotage include:\n\n\n\nDepth, measured with a depth sounder or lead line, can be used to identify a bathymetric contour or crossing point. Similarly, elevation can be used to confirm a geographic contour or crossing point. Measurement of depth and altitude allow vessels and aircraft navigators to confirm clear passage over obstructions.\n\nOn shipboard, navigators may use a pelorus to obtain bearings, relative to the vessel, from charted objects. A hand bearing compass provides magnetic bearings. On land a hand compass provides bearings to landmarks.\n\nMariners use position-fixing navigation, to obtain a \"position fix\" or \"fix\" by measuring the bearing of the navigator's current position from known points of reference. A visual fix of position can be made by using any sighting device with a bearing indicator to obtain position lines from the navigator's current position to each point of reference. Two or more objects of known position are sighted as points of reference, and the bearings recorded. Bearing lines or transits are then plotted on a chart through the locations of the sighted items. The intersection of these lines is then the current position of the navigator.\n\nUsually, a fix is where two or more position lines intersect at any given time. If three position lines can be obtained, the resulting \"cocked hat\", where the 3 lines do not intersect at the same point, but create a triangle where the vessel is inside, gives the navigator an indication of the accuracy in the three separate position lines.\n\nIf two geographic features are visually aligned (the edge of an island aligned with the edge of an island behind, a flag pole and a building, etc.), the extension of the line joining the features is called a \"transit\". A transit is not affected by compass accuracy, and is often used to check a compass for errors.\n\nThe most accurate fixes occur when the position lines are at right angles to each other.\n\nFlying at low altitudes and with sufficient visibility, aircraft pilots use nearby rivers, roads, railroad tracks and other visual references to establish their position.\n\nThe line connecting fixes is the track over the ground or sea bottom. The navigator compares the ground track with the navigational course for that leg of the intended route, in order to make a correction in \"heading\", the direction in which the craft is pointed to maintain its course in compensation for cross-currents of wind or water that may carry the craft off course.\n\nWhere a channel is narrow, as in some harbor entrances and on some rivers, a system of beacons allows mariners to align pairs of daymarks, called \"range markers\", to form a \"leading line\" (British English) or \"range axis\" (American English), along which to navigate safely. When lighted, these markers are called \"leading lights\" (British English) or \"range lights\" (American English). The relative positions of the marks and the vessel affect the accuracy of perceiving the leading line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48134895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48134895", "title": "Primary direction", "text": "Primary direction\n\nPrimary direction is a term in astronomy for the reference meridian used in a celestial coordinate system for that system's longitude.\n\n"}
{"id": "46495123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46495123", "title": "Rhoads Murphey", "text": "Rhoads Murphey\n\nRhoads Murphey (1919 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania − 2012 Ann Arbor, Michigan) was a geographer and historian of Asia who taught at University of Washington, Seattle, and University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He served for many years as executive director of the Association for Asian Studies, and in 1987-88 as its president, He was editor of the \"Journal of Asian Studies\". \n\nThe University of Michigan in 1974 gave Murphey its highest honor, the Distinguished Service Award. Murphey also accepted Association of American Geographers Honors in 1980. In 1966 he was a Guggenheim Fellow.\n\nMurphey earned his A.B. degree \"magna cum laude\" in history in 1941 and his M.A. degree in history from Harvard University in 1942. Although not a Quaker, Murphey attended a Friends School in his hometown of Philadelphia. That environment shaped his belief that “killing wouldn't solve anything.” He resolved, however, to assist against the threat of the Axis powers. He enlisted as a conscientious objector and served with the British Friends Ambulance Unit in China from 1942 to 1946. In the ambulance unit, Murphey and an international group of men drove old, charcoal-powered Chevrolet trucks throughout southwest China with medical supplies.\n\nFollowing the war, Murphey received an M.A. degree in international and regional studies in 1948 and his Ph.D. degree in Far Eastern history and geography from Harvard University in 1950. Murphey taught Asian studies and geography at the University of Washington from 1952-64. In 1964, he went to University of Michigan as professor of Asian studies and geography. His title was changed to professor of history in 1982.\n\nProfessor Murphey wrote or co-authored a dozen books on the history and geography of China and South Asia. He focused on the modern history of urbanization in the region through such works as \"Shanghai: Key to Modem China\" (1953). \"The Outsiders: Westerners in India and China\" (1977) won an award for best book of the year by the University of Michigan Press. \n\nAs a driver for the British Ambulance Corps in China during the Second Sino-Japanese War, Murphey traveled to Kunming, Chungking, Yen’an, Hanoi, Hong Kong and Shanghai and met Chiang Kai-Shek and Mao Zedong. Hong Kong was just an “outpost of colonialism,” Murphey recalled, and nothing like the huge metropolis that it became in post-war history. Murphy told a later interviewer his wartime encounters with Zhou Enlai, who was a “charmer” :\n\nWhen his unit reached Yan’an, the communist wartime capital, their impression of the communists was more favorable than of the Nationalists:\n\nMurphy recalled that he came away with a positive impression, but added:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21918000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21918000", "title": "Spill containment", "text": "Spill containment\n\nSpill containment is where spills of chemicals, oils, sewage etc. are contained within a barrier or drainage system rather than being absorbed at the surface. One method is to use an inflatable stopper or pneumatic bladder which is inserted into the outflow of a drainage system to create a containment vessel. In the event of a spill the stopper bladder is inflated to block the drain/s and to prevent the spilled agent from entering the ground water, stream or river.\n\nThe National Response Center (NRC) reports over 10,000 annual spills in the US from facilities. All of these can employ the spill containment measures mentioned above.\n\nOils spills, when they occur, are detrimental to the surrounding environment, humans, and native wildlife. This type of spill is statistically rare, given how much oil is pumped, refined, transported, and stored each day. In 1999, according to US Coast Guard data, of over 3.2 billion barrels of oil transported by oil tanker in the US, fewer than 200 barrels were spilled. The occurrence of oil spills has decreased in the current decades, with approximately 77% less oil spilled since the 1970s. This is due to increased awareness and improved technology.\n\nIn the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulates the preparations and response to oil spills in inland waters, with the United States Coast Guard responding to spills in coastal waters. The EPA oil spill program is further broken down into two segments with different responsibilities. The Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure works with facilities that may leak oil into local rivers, streams, or other bodies of water to prevent said leakage. The Facility Response Plan requires at-risk facilities to have a plan to follow in the event of an oil spill. Both were created to plug holes left in the Clean Water Act, in an amendment called the Oil Pollution Act of 1990.\n\nSpill containment is considered by some to be a more eco-friendly solution than using absorbent spill kits that have very small capacity, require disposal after use and do not permit re-cycling of the spilled agent. Chemical handling and oil transfer companies in the UK are now deploying spill containment bladders and valves that can be retro-fitted to existing drainage systems in just a few hours.\n\nInstalling spill containment measures prior to a spill can result in significant savings in the event of a spill. Cleanup costs are impacted by numerous factors such as location of the spill, type of oil spilled, surrounding sensitive areas, and local regulations. For example, the average cost of cleanup (per ton) after an oil spill is drastically different for a spill in the Gulf of Mexico than it would be in South American waters, where there is a difference of almost $70,000. Instead of paying for a costly cleanup, containment measures reduce the impact on the environment and the surrounding area, and may save some of the resource.\n\nBefore and after an oil spill, technology is used for many purposes.\nRemote control of the inflation process is also available eliminating risk to operatives in the event of hazardous chemical spills. Normally controls are pneumatic eliminating the need to run electrical cables down into the drainage system.\n\nThe latest technology in wireless spill containment eliminates any infrastructure changes using a wireless network (ZigBee) which inflates bladders that employ disposable gas cylinders. The wireless plugs enable spill containment in virtually any location. Using the ZigBee network enables the user to connect any type of component to the wireless system such as sensors, fire alarms, panic buttons, remote controls etc.\n\nDrains of all sizes can be fitted with systems available with extension brackets that cater for drain depths from 500 mm to over 2.5m deep.\nThere are also pneumatically controllable flap valves or pneumatically controlled non-return valves which can be fitted to existing soil waste systems. Again containment is controlled by application of pneumatic pressure in the event of a spill.\n\nWhile many technologies are aimed towards preventing oil spills or towards preparation for the spills, there is also technology available that can be quickly implemented in the event of a spill. As was the case with the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, it may take a very long time for spills to be contained.\n\nContainment Booms are a commonly used containment method. The barriers float on the water, with material that hangs below, to catch contaminants. These are simply to deploy, and help in recovery efforts while protecting surrounding resources. These barriers are effective in relatively level water, however; any significant waves allow contaminants to escape to boom and impact the surrounding environment.\n\nAfter using containment booms, skimmers are used to recover the contaminants.\n\n"}
{"id": "8530179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530179", "title": "Sucos of East Timor", "text": "Sucos of East Timor\n\nThe administrative posts (former subdistricts) of East Timor are subdivided into 442 \"sucos\" (\"villages\") and 2,336 \"aldeias\" (\"communities\").\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857306", "title": "Victory garden", "text": "Victory garden\n\nVictory gardens, also called war gardens or food gardens for defense, were vegetable, fruit, and herb gardens planted at private residences and public parks in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and Germany during World War I and World War II. George Washington Carver wrote an agricultural tract and promoted the idea of what he called a \"Victory Garden\". They were used along with Rationing Stamps and Cards to reduce pressure on the public food supply. Besides indirectly aiding the war effort, these gardens were also considered a civil \"morale booster\" in that gardeners could feel empowered by their contribution of labor and rewarded by the produce grown. This made victory gardens a part of daily life on the home front.\n\nVictory Gardens became popular in Canada in 1917. Under the Ministry of Agriculture's campaign, \"A Vegetable Garden for Every Home\", residents of cities, towns and villages utilized backyard spaces to plant vegetables for personal use and war effort. In the city of Toronto, ladies organizations brought expert gardeners into the schools to get school children and their families interested in gardening. In addition to gardening, home owners were encouraged to keep hens in their yards for the purpose of collecting eggs. The result was large production of potatoes, beets, cabbage and other useful vegetables.\n\nIn March 1917, Charles Lathrop Pack organized the US National War Garden Commission and launched the war garden campaign. Food production had fallen dramatically during World War I, especially in Europe, where agricultural labor had been recruited into military service and remaining farms devastated by the conflict. Pack and others conceived the idea that the supply of food could be greatly increased without the use of land and manpower already engaged in agriculture, and without the significant use of transportation facilities needed for the war effort. The campaign promoted the cultivation of available private and public lands, resulting in over five million gardens in the USA and foodstuff production exceeding $1.2 billion by the end of the war.\n\nPresident Woodrow Wilson said that \"Food will win the war.\" To support the home garden effort, a United States School Garden Army was launched through the Bureau of Education, and funded by the War Department at Wilson's direction.\n\nAustralia launched a Dig for Victory campaign in 1942 as rationing and a shortage of agricultural workers began to affect food supplies. The situation began to ease in 1943; however, home gardens continued throughout the war.\n\nIn Britain, \"digging for victory\" used much land such as waste ground, railway edges, ornamental gardens and lawns, while sports fields and golf courses were requisitioned for farming or vegetable growing. Sometimes a sports field was left as it was but used for sheep-grazing instead of being mown (for example see ). By 1943, the number of allotments had roughly doubled to 1,400,000, including rural, urban and suburban plots. C. H. Middleton's radio programme \"In Your Garden\" reached millions of listeners keen for advice on growing potatoes, leeks and the like, and helped ensure a communal sense of contributing to the war effort (as well as a practical response to food rationing). County Herb Committees were established to collect medicinal herbs when German blockades created shortages, for instance in \"Digitalis purpurea\" (Foxglove) which was used to regulate heartbeat. Victory gardens were planted in backyards and on apartment-building rooftops, with the occasional vacant lot \"commandeered for the war effort!\" and put to use as a cornfield or a squash patch. During World War II, sections of lawn were publicly plowed for plots in Hyde Park, London to promote the movement, while allotments growing onions in the shadow of the Albert Memorial also pointed to everybody, high and low, chipping in to the national struggle. Both Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle had vegetable gardens planted at the instigation of King George VI to assist with food production.\n\nAmid regular rationing of food in Britain, the United States Department of Agriculture encouraged the planting of victory gardens during the course of World War II. Around one third of the vegetables produced by the United States came from victory gardens. It was emphasized to American home front urbanites and suburbanites that the produce from their gardens would help to lower the price of vegetables needed by the US War Department to feed the troops, thus saving money that could be spent elsewhere on the military: \"Our food is fighting,\" one US poster read. By May 1943, there were 18 million victory gardens in the United States - 12 million in cities and 6 million on farms.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt planted a Victory Garden on the white house lawn in 1943. The Roosevelts were not the first presidency to institute a garden in the white house. Woodrow Wilson grazed sheep on the south lawn during World War I to avoid mowing the lawn. Eleanor Roosevelt’s garden instead served as a political message of the patriotic duty to garden, even though Eleanor did not tend to her own garden. While Victory Gardens were portrayed as a patriotic duty, 54% of Americans polled said they grew gardens for economic reasons while only 20% mentioned patriotism.\n\nAlthough at first the Department of Agriculture objected to Eleanor Roosevelt's institution of a victory garden on the White House grounds, fearing that such a movement would hurt the food industry, basic information about gardening appeared in public services booklets distributed by the Department of Agriculture, as well as by agribusiness corporations such as International Harvester and Beech-Nut. Fruit and vegetables harvested in these home and community plots was estimated to be in 1944, an amount equal to all commercial production of fresh vegetables.\n\nThe Victory Garden movement also attempted to unite the Home-front. Local communities would have festivals and competitions to showcase the produce each person grew in their own gardens. While the garden movement united some local communities, the garden movement separated minorities like African Americans. At harvest shows, separate prizes were awarded to “colored people”, in similar categories, a long-held tradition in Delaware and the deeper South, as well as in Baltimore.\n\nIn New York City, the lawns around vacant \"Riverside\" were devoted to victory gardens, as were portions of San Francisco's Golden Gate Park. The slogan \"grow your own, can your own\", was a slogan that started at the time of the war and referred to families growing and canning their own food in victory gardens.\n\nIn 1946, with the war over, many British residents did not plant victory gardens, in expectation of greater availability of food. However, shortages remained in the United Kingdom, and rationing remained in place for at least some food items until 1954.\n\nLand at the centre of the Sutton Garden Suburb in Sutton, London was first put to use as a victory garden during World War II; before then it had been used as a recreation ground with tennis courts. The land continued to be used as allotments by local residents for more than 50 years until they were evicted by the then landowner in 1997. The land has since fallen into disuse.\n\nThe Fenway Victory Gardens in the Back Bay Fens of Boston, Massachusetts and the Dowling Community Garden in Minneapolis, Minnesota remain active as the last surviving public examples from World War II. Most plots in the Fenway Victory Gardens now feature flowers instead of vegetables while the Dowling Community Garden retains its focus on vegetables.\n\nSince the turn of the 21st century, interest in victory gardens has grown. A campaign promoting such gardens has sprung up in the form of new victory gardens in public spaces, victory garden websites and blogs, as well as petitions to renew a national campaign for the victory garden and to encourage the re-establishment of a victory garden on the White House lawn. In March 2009, First Lady Michelle Obama planted an \"Kitchen Garden\" on the White House lawn, the first since Eleanor Roosevelt's, to raise awareness about healthy food.\n\nSeveral countries produced numerous information films about growing victory gardens.\n\nHistorical documentary and reality television series such as \"The 1940s House\", \"Wartime Farm\" and the second season of \"Coal House\" place modern families in a recreated wartime settings, including digging victory gardens.\n\nThe WGBH public-television series \"The Victory Garden\" took the familiar expression to promote composting and intensive cropping for homeowners who wanted to raise some vegetables (and some flowers).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23988882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23988882", "title": "Washaway", "text": "Washaway\n\nA washaway is a particular kind of landslide that can affect man-made structures such as cuttings, embankments and bridges. They are thus a hazard to railways and road traffic.\n\nThe biggest danger with washaways is that they may be difficult to spot in time to stop short of the point where one falls over the edge and/or into the water where one may drown.\n\nAn embankment that is washed away can be repaired or restored by replacing the washed away earth, which is necessarily large because embankments have a gentle slope.\n\nA quicker method is to replace the washed out earth with a criss-cross structure of timber steepers called a pigsty which is only slightly wider than the track itself. The pigsty has alternating layers of transverse and longitudinal layers of these sleepers, which contains a lot of air which saves weight. Steel and concrete sleepers are not necessarily suitable for this purpose as they are either not square or fragile.\n\nThe sleepers in the pigsty can be reused when the washaway is fully repaired. Rails can substitute for the sleepers. The hollow space inside the pigsty should be able to act as a culvert.\n\nA mechanical railway signal that is normally \"green\" can be put to \"red\" if a link in the pulling wire is disengaged by a slump of the earth beneath.\n\nAn electrical railway signal that is normally green can be put to red if a contact is opened circuited by a slump of the earth beneath. One side of contact might be attached to the sleepers, while the other side is buried in the ballast beneath. To protect against a false feed keeping the warning signal green, the circuit should be double cut so that false feeds will connect positive to negative and blow a fuse, forcing the warning signal to red. A similar setup might be used to protect bridges likely to be hit by ship collisions, as with the 1993 Big Bayou Canot train wreck.\n\nRailway accidents involving bridge washaways include:\n\n\n\n"}
