{"id": "3867561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3867561", "title": "25L6", "text": "25L6\n\nThe 25L6 is an octal-based vacuum tube of the Beam tetrode type. It found common application in AC/DC radio receivers - such as those of the All American Five type - and was also found in large numbers in early computers, such as the UNIVAC I.\n\nThe tube used EIA base 7AC in common with many other power tubes. The tube was identical in design and ratings with the 50L6 with the exception of having a 25 volt 300 mA heater, whereas the 50L6 has a 50 volt 150 mA heater. The 12L6 and identical 12W6 were made with a 12 volt, 600 mA heater, and the 6W6 was made with a 6.3V, 1200mA heater. There was also a 35L6 with a 35V, 150 mA heater. Because of the slightly lower-power heater, the 35L6 has slightly lower output than the rest of the family. \n\nThis family is not to be confused with the 6L6, which has the same basing diagram, but has more than twice the power capability of the 25L6. \nThe 25L6 was introduced as a metal tube on November 4, 1936, but most examples of this family were made of glass. The ST14 glass 25L6G came out on March 30, 1937. The T9 size GT version came out on April 11, 1938. There was also a 25L6G in the smaller ST-12 glass envelope.\n\nComputer equipment used this tube as a relay driver or to run the solenoids in key punch machines. The heater in this case ran off the 24 volt power line in the equipment, resulting in long life and slightly lower power output. The industrial type 6046 is a 25L6GT rated for that application.\n\n"}
{"id": "57977044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57977044", "title": "Africarium", "text": "Africarium\n"}
{"id": "10153046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10153046", "title": "Anaxibia", "text": "Anaxibia\n\nAnaxibia (; Ancient Greek: ) is the name of six characters in Greek mythology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "560009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=560009", "title": "Arid", "text": "Arid\n\nA region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of available water, to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and development of plant and animal life. Environments subject to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic. Most \"arid\" climates straddle the Equator; these places include most of Africa and parts of South America, Central America, and Australia.\n\nThe distribution of aridity observed at any one point in time is largely the result of the general circulation of the atmosphere. The latter does change significantly over time through climate change. For example, temperature increase (by 1.5–2.1 percent) across the Nile Basin over the next 30–40 years could change the region from semi-arid to arid, resulting in a significant reduction in agricultural land. In addition, changes in land use can result in greater demands on soil water and induce a higher degree of aridity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401885", "title": "Asteroseismology", "text": "Asteroseismology\n\nAsteroseismology or astroseismology is the study of oscillations in stars. Because a star's different oscillation modes are sensitive to different parts of the star, they inform astronomers about the internal structure of the star, which is otherwise not directly possible from overall properties like brightness and surface temperature. Asteroseismology is closely related to helioseismology, the study of stellar oscillations specifically in the Sun. Though both are based on the same underlying physics, more and qualitatively different information is available for the Sun because its surface can be resolved.\n\nBy linearly perturbing the equations defining the mechanical equilibrium of a star (i.e. mass conservation and hydrostatic equilibrium) and assuming that the perturbations are adiabatic, one can derive a system of four differential equations whose solutions give the frequency and structure of a star's modes of oscillation. The stellar structure is usually assumed to be spherically symmetric, so the horizontal (i.e. non-radial) component of the oscillations is described by spherical harmonics, indexed by an angular degree formula_1 and azimuthal order formula_2. In non-rotating stars, modes with the same angular degree must all have the same frequency because there is no preferred axis. The angular degree indicates the number of nodal lines on the stellar surface, so for large values of formula_1, the opposing sectors roughly cancel out, making it difficult to detect light variations. As a consequence, modes can only be detected up to an angular degree of about 3 in intensity and about 4 if observed in radial velocity.\n\nBy additionally assuming that the perturbation to the gravitational potential is negligible (the \"Cowling\" approximation) and that the star's structure varies more slowly with radius than the oscillation mode, the equations can be reduced approximately to one second-order equation for the radial component of the displacement eigenfunction formula_4,\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere\nformula_6 is the radial co-ordinate in the star,\nformula_7 is the angular frequency of the oscillation mode,\nformula_8 is the sound speed inside the star,\nformula_9 is the Brunt-Vaisala or buoyancy frequency and\nformula_10 is the Lamb frequency.\nThe last two are defined by\n\nformula_11\n\nand\n\nformula_12\n\nrespectively. By analogy with the behaviour of simple harmonic oscillators,\nthis implies that oscillating solutions exist when the frequency is either\ngreater or less than both formula_10 and formula_9. We identify the former case\nas high-frequency pressure modes (p-modes) and the latter as low-frequency\ngravity modes (g-modes).\n\nThis basic separation allows us to determine (to reasonable accuracy)\nwhere we expect what kind of mode to resonate in a star. By plotting the\ncurves formula_15 and formula_16 (for given\nformula_1), we expect p-modes to resonate at frequencies below both\ncurves or frequencies above both curves.\n\nUnder fairly specific conditions, some stars have regions where heat is transported by radiation and the opacity is a sharply decreasing function of temperature. This opacity \"bump\" can drive oscillations through the formula_18-mechanism (or \"Eddington valve\"). Suppose that, at the beginning of an oscillation cycle, the stellar envelope has contracted. By expanding and cooling slightly, the layer in the opacity bump becomes more opaque, absorbs more radiation, and heats up. This heating causes expansion, further cooling and the layer becomes even more opaque. This continues until the material opacity stops increasing so rapidly, at which point the radiation trapped in the layer can escape. The star contracts and the cycle prepares to commence again. In this sense, the opacity acts like a valve that traps heat in the star's envelope.\n\nPulsations driven by the formula_18-mechanism are coherent and have relatively large amplitudes. It drives the pulsations in many of the longest-known variable stars, including the Cepheid and RR Lyrae variables.\n\nIn stars with surface convection zones, turbulent fluids motions near the surface simultaneously excite and damp oscillations across a broad range of frequency.\nBecause the modes are intrinsically stable, they have low amplitudes and are relatively short-lived. This is the driving mechanism in all solar-like oscillators.\n\nIf the base of a surface convection zone is sharp and the convective timescales slower than the pulsation timescales, the convective flows react too slowly perturbations that can build up into large, coherent pulsations. This mechanism is known as \"convective blocking\"\nand is believed to drive pulsations in the formula_21 Doradus variables.\n\nObservations from the \"Kepler\" satellite revealed eccentric binary systems in which oscillations are excited during the closest approach. These systems are known as \"heartbeat\" stars because of the characteristic shape of the lightcurves.\n\nBecause solar oscillations are driven by near-surface convection, any stellar oscillations caused similarly are known as \"solar-like oscillations\" and the stars themselves as \"solar-like oscillators\". However, solar-like oscillations also occur in evolved stars (subgiants and red giants), which have convective envelopes, even though the stars are not \"Sun-like\".\n\nCepheid variables are one of the most important classes of pulsating star. They are core-helium burning stars with masses above about 5 solar masses. They principally oscillate at their fundamental modes, with typical periods ranging from days to months. Their pulsation periods are closely related to their luminosities, so it is possible to determine the distance to a Cepheid by measuring its oscillation period, computing its luminosity, and comparing this to its observed brightness.\n\nCepheid pulsations are excited by the kappa mechanism acting on the second ionization zone of helium.\n\nRR Lyraes are similar to Cepheid variables but of lower metallicity (i.e. Population II) and much lower masses (about 0.6 to 0.8 time solar). They are core helium-burning giants that oscillate in one or both of their fundamental mode or first overtone. The oscillation are also driven by the kappa mechanism acting through the second ionization of helium. Many RR Lyraes, including RR Lyrae itself, show long period amplitude modulations, known as the Blazhko effect.\n\nDelta Scuti variables are found roughly where the classical instability strip intersects the main sequence. They are typically A- to early F-type dwarfs and subgiants and the oscillation modes are low-order radial and non-radial pressure modes, with periods ranging from 0.25 to 8 hours and magnitude variations anywhere between. Like Cepheid variables, the oscillations are driven by the kappa mechanism acting on the second ionization of helium.\n\nSX Phoenicis variables are regarded as metal-poor relatives of Delta Scuti variables.\n\nGamma Doradus variables occur in similar stars to the red end of the Delta Scuti variables, usually of early F-type. The stars show multiple oscillation frequencies between about 0.5 and 3 days, which is much slower than the low-order pressure modes. Gamma Doradus oscillations are generally thought to be high-order gravity modes, excited by convective blocking.\n\nFollowing results from \"Kepler\", it appears that nearly all Delta Scuti stars also show Gamma Doradus oscillations and are therefore hybrids.\n\nRapidly oscillating Ap stars have similar parameters to Delta Scuti variables, mostly being A- and F-type, but they are also strongly magnetic and chemically peculiar (hence the \"p\" spectral subtype). Their dense mode spectra are understood in terms of the \"oblique pulsator model\": the modes frequencies are modulated by the magnetic field, which is not necessarily aligned with the star's rotation (as is the case in the Earth). The oscillation modes have frequencies around 1500 μHz and amplitudes of a few mmag.\n\nSlowly-pulsating B (SPB) stars are B-type stars with oscillation periods of a few days, understood to be high-order gravity modes excited by the kappa mechanism. Beta Cephei variables are slightly hotter (and thus more massive), also have modes excited by the kappa mechanism and additionally oscillate in low-order gravity modes with periods of several hours. Both classes of oscillators contain only slowly-rotating stars.\n\nSubdwarf B (sdB) stars are in essence the cores of core-helium burning giants who have somehow lost most of their hydrogen envelopes, to the extent that there is no hydrogen burning shell. They have multiple oscillation periods that range between about 1 and 10 minutes and amplitudes anywhere between 0.001 and 0.3 mag in visible light. The oscillations are low-order pressure modes, excited by the kappa mechanism acting on the iron opacity bump.\n\nWhite dwarfs are characterized by spectral type, much like ordinary stars, except that the relationship between spectral type and effective temperature does not correspond in the same way. Thus, white dwarfs are known by types DO, DA and DB. Cooler types are physically possible but the Universe is too young for them to have cooled enough. White dwarfs of all three types are found to pulsate. The pulsators are known as GW Virginis stars (DO variables, sometimes also known as PG 1159 stars), V777 Herculis stars (DB variables) and ZZ Ceti stars (DA variables). All pulsate in low-degree, high-order g-modes. The oscillation periods broadly decrease with effective temperature, ranging from about 30 min down to about 1 minute. GW Virginis and ZZ Ceti stars are thought to be excited by the kappa mechanism; V777 Herculis stars by convective blocking.\n\nA number of past, present and future spacecraft have asteroseismology studies as a significant part of their missions (order chronological). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5179576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5179576", "title": "Berkshire Hathaway Energy", "text": "Berkshire Hathaway Energy\n\nBerkshire Hathaway Energy (previously known as MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company until 2014) is a holding company that is 90% owned by Berkshire Hathaway. Berkshire has owned a controlling stake since 1999.\n\nGreg Abel serves as president, chairman and CEO. David L. Sokol was CEO until 2008.\n\nUntil 2014, it was known as MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company from its root as MidAmerican Energy Company; it took on the name of its parent to reflect the diversity of its portfolio.\n\nBerkshire Hathaway Energy owns the following companies:\n\nIn 2017, BHE's proposed acquisition of Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC was terminated after BHE was outbid by Sempra.\n\n"}
{"id": "15344494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15344494", "title": "British counter-intelligence against the Indian revolutionary movement during World War I", "text": "British counter-intelligence against the Indian revolutionary movement during World War I\n\nBritish counter-intelligence against the Indian revolutionary movement during World War I began from its initial roots in the late-19th century and ultimately came to span in extent from Asia through Europe to the West Coast of the United States and Canada. It was effective in thwarting a number of attempts for insurrection in British India during World War I and ultimately in controlling the Indian revolutionary movement both at home and abroad.\n\nDuring World War I, although Indian political bodies and populace largely came to support the British war effort, Bengal and Punjab remained hotbeds of anti colonial activities. Terrorism in Bengal, increasingly closely linked with the unrests in Punjab, was significant enough to nearly paralyse the regional administration. Also from the beginning of the war, expatriate Indian population, notably from United States, Canada, and Germany, headed by the Berlin Committee and the Ghadar Party, attempted to trigger insurrections in India on the lines of the 1857 uprising with Irish Republican, German and Turkish help in a massive conspiracy that has since come to be called the Hindu–German Conspiracy This conspiracy also attempted to rally Afghanistan against British India. A number of failed attempts were made at mutiny, of which the February mutiny plan and the Singapore Mutiny remains most notable. This movement was suppressed by means of a massive international counter-intelligence operation and draconian political acts (including the Defence of India Act 1915) that lasted nearly ten years.\n\nOutlines and nascent ideas of the conspiracy began to be noted and tracked by British intelligence as early as 1911. Incidents like the Delhi-Lahore Conspiracy and the \"Komagata Maru\" incident had already alerted the CID of the existence of a large-scale network and plans for pan-Indian militant unrest. Measures were taken which focussed on Bengal—the seat of the most intense revolutionary terrorism at the time—and on Punjab, which was uncovered as a strong and militant base in the wake of \"Komagata Maru\". Har Dayal's extant group was found to have strong links with Rash Behari Bose, and were \"cleaned up\" in the wake of the Delhi bomb case.\n\n\"See also: Charles Tegart, Kirpal Singh, Oren, Vincent Kraft.\"\n\nAt the outbreak of the war, Punjab CID sent teams to Hong Kong to intercept and infiltrate the returning Ghadarites, who often made little efforts to hide their plans and objectives. These teams were successful in uncovering details of the full scale of the conspiracy, as well as discovering Har Dayal's whereabouts. Immigrants returning to India were double checked against a list of revolutionaries.\n\nIn Punjab, the CID, although aware of possible plans for unrest, was not successful in infiltrating the conspiracy for the mutiny until February 1915. A dedicated force was formed, headed by the Chief of Punjab CID, and including amongst its members Liaqat Hayat Khan (later head of Punjab CID himself). In February that year, the CID was successful in recruiting the services of one Kirpal Singh to infiltrate the plan. Singh, who had a Ghadarite cousin serving in the 23rd Cavalry, was able to infiltrate the leadership, being assigned to work in his cousin's regiment. Singh was soon under suspicion of being a spy, but was able to pass on the information regarding the date and scale of the uprising to British Indian intelligence. As the date for the mutiny approached, a desperate Rash Behari Bose brought forward the D-day to the evening of 19 February, which was discovered by Kirpal Singh on the very day. No attempts were made by the Ghadarites to restrain him, and he rushed to inform Liaqat Khan of the change of plans. Ordered back to his station to signal when the revolutionaries had assembled, Singh was detained by the would-be mutineers, but managed to make good his escape under the cover of answering the call of nature.\n\nIn Bengal, counter-intelligence, especially against the activities of Jugantar was led by Charles Tegart while the role of German or Baltic-German double-agents, especially the agent named \"Oren\", was also important in infiltrating and preempting the plans for Autumn rebellions in Bengal in 1915 as well as scuttling Bagha Jatin's plans in winter that year. Jatin is believed to be personally shot by Tegart in his final battle on the banks of the river Burha Balang. Another source was the German double agent Vincent Kraft, a planter from Batavia, who passed information about arms shipments from Shanghai to British agents after being captured. Kraft later fled through Mexico to Japan where he was last known to be at the end of the war. Also arrested in November was a Javanese revolutionary by the name of Dekker while he travelled under the directions of the Berlin committee from Europe to Siam. He intended to work on publishing German war news and Indian revolutionary material to be smuggled into India via Burma. Later efforts by Mahendra Pratap's Provisional Government in Kabul were also compromised by Herambalal Gupta after he defected in 1918 and passed on information to Indian intelligence.\n\nBritish efforts against the Indian revolutionary movement and gainst German spy networks involved both the Special Branch as well as the MI5. A branch of the MI5 was formed early in the war to address the war time espionage operations The MI5 itself, working under Vernon Kell, had a number of India experts at the beginning of the war. In September 1916, a special section, the MI5(d), section was formed to operate counter-espionage networks throughout the British empire. Another subsection, the MI5(b), was formed in January 1917 to deal specifically with Indians and \"other oriental races\". The MI5(g) subsection was formed through renaming the MO5(g) in 1916. The MI5(g) had 27 officers in its staff, eight of whom had served in India before the war. Among them were ex-Indian civil servants including Robert Nathan and H.L. Stephenson. Nathan began his work for British intelligence against Indian revolutionaries in October 1914. After retiring from the ICS in 1915, Nathan joined the MI5(g). Nathan's fellow officer at the time was another ex-Indian police official by the name of HL Stephenson. He headed at the time the political branch of the Secret service, and along with Basil Thomson who headed the Special Branch of the Scotland Yard, Nathan was closely involved in the interrogation of Indians who worked along with the Germans during the war. The main emphasis of this counter-espionage network was to prevent the subversion of Indian troops in the European theatre. The organisation, especially under Nathan, worked closely with the Special Branch of the Scotland Yard in Britain and with the Indian Political Intelligence Office headed by John Wallinger, which operated a network of spies in neutral Switzerland which a number of the Indian revolutionaries and members of the Berlin Committee used as a base.\n\nBy the time the war broke out an Indian Intelligence office, headed by John Wallinger, had been opened in Europe. In scale this office was larger than those operated by the British War Office, approaching the European intelligence network of the Secret Service Bureau. This network already had agents in Switzerland against possible German intrigues. After the outbreak of the war Wallinger, under the cover of an officer of the British General Headquarters, proceeded to France where he operated out of Paris, working with the French Political Police, the Sûreté. Among other enterprises, the European intelligence network attempted to eliminate some of the Indian leaders in Europe. A British agent called Donald Gullick was dispatched to assassinate Virendranath Chattopadhaya while the latter was on his way to Geneva to meet Mahendra Pratap to offer Kaiser Wilhelm II's invitation. It is said that Somerset Maugham, who was in the British Secret Service in Europe during the war, based a number of his stories on his first-hand experiences, modelling the character of after himself and Chandra Lal after Virendranath. The short story of \"Giulia Lazzari\" is a blend of Gullick's attempts to assassinate Virendranath and Mata Hari's story. Winston Churchill reportedly advised Maugham to burn 14 other stories. MI5(g)'s work at the time identified the plans by Ghadar Party and the Berlin Committee to assassinate Lord Kitchener in 1915 through an associate of Har Dayal, Gobind Behari Lal. It was also responsible at this time, along with Basil Thomson, for the capture of Harish Chandra (who was associated with the Berlin Committee) and turning him into a double agent. Through Harish Chandra was also identified plans for obtaining information of Ghadarite intrigues in Japan and China. Among other works, Nathan was responsible for the plans made by British intelligence in late 1915 to assassinate Virendranath Chattopadhyaya through an agent by the name of Donald Gullick.\n\nNathan's efforts, along with those of John Wallinger's Indian Political Intelligence Office (who Nathan worked closely with), were key in the British counter-espionage work. Nathan's work at the time identified the plans by Ghadar Party and the Berlin Committee to assassinate Lord Kitchener in 1915 through an associate of Har Dayal, Gobind Behari Lal. He was also responsible at this time, along with Basil Thomson, to turn Harish Chandra (who was associated with the Berlin Committee) into a double agent.\nAmong other works, Nathan was responsible for the plans made by British intelligence in late 1915 to assassinate Virendranath Chattopadhyaya through an agent by the name of Donald Gullick.\n\nIn the Middle East, British counter-intelligence was directed at preserving the loyalty of the Indian sepoy in the face of Turkish propaganda and the concept of \"The Caliph's Jihad\", while a particularly significant effort was directed at intercepting the Kabul Mission. The East Persian Cordon was established in July 1915 in the Sistan province of Persia to prevent the Germans from crossing into Afghanistan and to protect British supply caravans in Sarhad from the Damani, Reki and Kurdish Baluchi tribal raiders who might be tempted by German gold. Among the commanders of the Sistan force was Reginald Dyer who led it between March and October 1916.\n\nIn the United States, the conspiracy was successfully infiltrated by British intelligence through both Irish as well as Indian channels. The activities of Ghadar on the Pacific coast were noted by W. C. Hopkinson, who had grown up in India and spoke fluent Hindi. Initially W.C.H. had been despatched from Calcutta to keep the Indian Police informed about the doings of Taraknath Das.\nThe Home department of the British Indian government had begun the task of actively tracking Indian seditionists on the East Coast as early as 1910. Francis Cunliffe Owen, the officer heading the Home Office agency in New York City, had become thoroughly acquainted with George Freeman alias Fitzgerald and Myron Phelps, the famous New York advocate, as members of the Clan-na-Gael. Owens' efforts were successful in thwarting the SS \"Moraitis\" plan. The Ghadar Party was incidentally established after Irish Republicans, sensing infiltration, encouraged formation of an exclusively Indian society. Following this, a number of approaches were adopted, including infiltration through a \"Native\" Indian intelligence officer by the name of Bela Singh who successfully set up a network of agents passing on information to British intelligence, as well as the use of the famous American Pinkerton's detective agency. W. C. Hopkinson himself was assassinated in a court in Victoria by a Ghadarite named Mewa Singh in October 1914.\n\nLater, on instructions from British secret service, Robert Nathan transferred his work to the Pacific coast North America where the Ghadar Party worked closely with the German consulate at San Francisco to obtain arms and men for what came to be known as the Ghadar Conspiracy. Working with Thomas J Tunney, the head of New York Bomb Squad, Nathan's works successfully brought the Ghadarites and staff at the German consulate to trial following the \"Annie Larsen\" arms plot. He organised the Hindu-German conspiracy trial, which at the time was the longest in merican legal history. He was responsible for the arrest of Chandra Kanta Chakraverty and his subsequent interrogation, along with that Ernst Sekunna. Through March 1917, Nathan worked closely with William Wiseman, and negotiated with the US State Department the details of the case against the Indian conspirators. He strongly supported granting the guarantee to the United States of not being held responsible for violation of neutrality. An Irish double agent by the name of Charles Lamb is said to have passed on the majority of the information that compromised the \"Annie Larsen\" and ultimately helped the construction of the prosecution. An Indian operative, codenamed \"C\" and described most likely to have been the adventurous Chandra Kanta Chakravarty (later the chief prosecution witness in the trial), also passed on the details of the conspiracy to British and American intelligence.\n\nThe Czech revolutionary network in Europe also had a role in the uncovering of Bagha Jatin's plans. The network was in touch with the members in the United States, and may have also been aware of and involved in the uncovering of the earlier plots. The American network, headed by E.V. Voska, was a counter-espionage network of nearly 80 members who, as Habsburg subjects, were presumed to be German supporters but were involved in spying on German and Austrian diplomats. Voska had begun working with Guy Gaunt, who headed Courtenay Bennett's intelligence network, at the outbreak of the war and on learning of the plot from the Czech European network, passed on the information to Gaunt and to Tomáš Masaryk who further passed on the information the American authorities.\n\nThe British counter-intelligence operations effectively thwarted attempts within and from outside India, and ultimately was able to bring the Ghadar Party into the attention of American intelligence, while its counter-subversion within the Berlin committee and the Indian movement effectively broke the groups up and prevented a cohesive plan for being put into place.\n\n"}
{"id": "55932822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55932822", "title": "Burnt Mountain (Namibia)", "text": "Burnt Mountain (Namibia)\n\nThe Burnt Mountain (Afrikaans: \"Verbrande Berg\") is a hill with a solidified lava flow at the foot of a 12-kilometre-long volcanic ridge in Damaraland in northern Namibia. The 80-million-year-old stream of lava was formed by thermal and compression metamorphism and its red, brown, cream and purple colours creates a striking contrast at dusk with the surrounding 200-million-year-old beige rocks of Karoo slate. Burnt Mountain rises above the surrounding area by about 200 metres and is not far from the Organ Pipes on the D3254 road and about 10 kilometres southeast of Twyfelfontein.\n\nSince 15 September 1956, the Burnt Mountain has been a National Monument of Namibia.\n\n"}
{"id": "481294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=481294", "title": "Cape York Peninsula", "text": "Cape York Peninsula\n\nCape York Peninsula is a large remote peninsula located in Far North Queensland, Australia. It is the largest unspoiled wilderness in northern Australia. The land is mostly flat and about half of the area is used for grazing cattle. The relatively undisturbed eucalyptus wooded savannahs, tropical rainforests and other types of habitat are now recognized and preserved for their global environmental significance, but native wildlife is threatened by introduced species and weeds.\n\nEdmund Kennedy was the first European explorer to attempt an overland expedition of Cape York Peninsula. He had been second-in-command to Thomas Livingstone Mitchell in 1846 when the Barcoo River was discovered. The aim was to blaze a trail to the tip of the peninsula where some Sydney businessmen thought of developing a port for trade with the East Indies.\n\nThe expedition set out from Rockingham Bay near the present town of Cardwell in May 1848, and it turned out to be one of the great disasters of Australian exploration. Of the thirteen men who set out, only three survived. The others died of fever or starvation, or were speared by hostile aborigines. Kennedy died of spear wounds almost within sight of his destination in December 1848. The only survivor to complete the journey was Jackey Jackey, an aborigine from New South Wales. He led a rescue party to the other two who had been unable to continue.\n\nThe peninsula was finally conquered in 1864 when the Jardine brothers with eight companions drove a mob of cattle from Rockhampton to the new settlement of Somerset (on Cape York) where the Jardines’ father was commander. En route they lost most of their horses, many of their stores and fought pitched battles with Aborigines, finally arriving in March 1865.\n\nThe west coast borders the Gulf of Carpentaria and the east coast borders the Coral Sea. The peninsula is bordered on three sides (north, east and west). There is no clear demarcation to the south, although the official boundary in the Cape York Peninsula Heritage Act 2007 of Queensland runs along at about 16°S latitude.\nAt the peninsula’s widest point, it is from the Bloomfield River in the southeast, across to the west coast just south of the aboriginal community of Kowanyama. It is some from the southern border of Cook Shire, to the tip of Cape York. The largest islands in the strait include Prince of Wales Island, Horn Island, Moa, and Badu Island.\n\nAt the tip of the peninsula lies Cape York, the northernmost point on the Australian mainland. It was named by Lieutenant James Cook on 21 August 1770 in honour of Prince Edward, Duke of York and Albany, a brother of King George III of the United Kingdom, who had died three years earlier:\n\nThe tropical landscapes are among the most stable in the world. Long undisturbed by tectonic activity, the peninsula is an extremely eroded, almost level low plain dominated by meandering rivers and vast floodplains, with some very low hills rising to elevation in the McIlwraith Range on the eastern side around Coen.\n\nThe backbone of Cape York Peninsula is the peninsula ridge, part of Australia’s Great Dividing Range. This mountain range is made up of ancient (1,500-million-year-old) Precambrian and Palaeozoic rocks. To the east and west of the peninsula ridge lie the Carpentaria and Laura Basins, themselves made up of ancient Mesozoic sediments. There are several outstanding landforms on the peninsula: the large expanses of undisturbed dunefields at the eastern coast around Shelburne Bay and Cape Bedford-Cape Flattery; the huge piles of black granite boulders at Black Mountain National Park and Cape Melville; and the limestone karsts around Palmerston in the peninsula’s far south.\n\nThe soils are remarkably infertile even compared to other areas of Australia, being almost entirely laterised and in most cases so old and weathered that very little development is apparent today (classified in USDA soil taxonomy as Orthents). It is because of this extraordinary soil poverty that the region is so thinly settled: the soils are so unworkable and unresponsive to fertilisers that attempts to grow commercial crops have usually failed.\n\nThe climate on Cape York Peninsula is tropical and monsoonal, with a heavy monsoon season from November to April, during which time the forest becomes almost uninhabitable, and a dry season from May to October. The temperature is warm to hot, with a cooler climate in higher areas. The mean annual temperatures range from at higher elevations to on the lowlands in the drier southwest. Temperatures over and below are rare.\n\nAnnual rainfall is high, ranging from over in the Iron Range and north of Weipa to about at the southern border. Almost all this rain falls between November and April, and only on the eastern slopes of the Iron Range is the median rainfall between June and September above . Between January and March, however, the median monthly rainfall ranges from about in the south to over in the north and on the Iron Range.\n\nThe Peninsula Ridge forms the drainage divide between the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Coral Sea. To the west, a series of large, winding river systems including the Mitchell, Staaten, Coleman, Holroyd, Archer, Watson, Wenlock, Ducie and Jardine catchments empty their waters into the Gulf of Carpentaria. During the dry season, those rivers are reduced to a series of waterholes and sandy beds. Yet, with the arrival of torrential rains in the wet season, they swell to mighty waterways, spreading across extensive floodplains and coastal wetlands and giving life to a vast array of freshwater and wetland species.\n\nOn the Eastern slopes, the shorter, faster-flowing Jacky Jacky Creek, Olive, Pascoe, Lockhart, Stewart, Jeannie and Endeavour Rivers flow towards the Coral Sea, providing important freshwater and nutrients to the healthiest section of the Great Barrier Reef. On their way, those wild, undisturbed rivers are lined with dense rainforests, sand dunes or mangroves.\nThe floodplains of the Laura Basin, which are protected in the Lakefield and Jack River National Parks, are crossed by the Morehead, Hann, North Kennedy, Laura, Jack and Normanby Rivers.\n\nThe Peninsula’s river catchments are noted for their exceptional hydrological integrity. With little disturbance on both water flows and vegetation cover throughout entire catchments, Cape York Peninsula has been identified as one of the few places where tropical water cycles remain essentially intact. Cape York Peninsula contributes as much as a quarter of Australia's surface runoff. Indeed, with only about 2.7 percent of Australia's land area it produces more run-off than all of Australia south of the Tropic of Capricorn. Tapping those heavy tropical rainfalls, the peninsula’s rivers are also of particular importance for replenishing central Australia’s Great Artesian Basin. The Queensland Government is currently poised to protect 13 of Cape York Peninsula’s wild rivers under the Wild Rivers Act 2005.\n\nThe peninsula is formed from the northern part of the Great Dividing Range, folded during the Carboniferous period some 300 million years ago, when Australia collided with what is now parts of South America and New Zealand. The range has experienced significant erosion since. \nAround 40 million years ago, the Indo-Australian tectonic plate began to split apart from the ancient supercontinent Gondwana. As it collided with the Pacific Plate on its northward journey, the high mountain ranges of central New Guinea emerged around 5 million years ago. In the lee of this collision zone, the ancient rock formations of what is now Cape York Peninsula remained largely undisturbed.\n\nThroughout the Pleistocene epoch Australia and New Guinea were alternately land-linked and separated by water. During periods of glaciation and resulting low sea levels, Cape York Peninsula provided a low-lying land link. Another link existed between Arnhem Land and New Guinea, at times enclosing an enormous freshwater lake (Lake Carpentaria) in the centre of what is now the Gulf of Carpentaria. Australia and New Guinea remained connected in this way until the shallow Torres Strait was last flooded around 8,000 years ago.\n\nCape York Peninsula supports a complex mosaic of intact tropical rainforests, tropical and subtropical grasslands, savannahs, shrublands, heath lands, wetlands, wild rivers and mangrove swamps. The savannah woodlands consist typically of a tall dense grass layer and varying densities of trees, predominantly eucalypt of which the most common is Darwin stringybark (\"Eucalyptus tetrodonta\"). These various habitats are home to about 3300 species of flowering plants and almost the entire area of Cape York Peninsula (99.6%) still retains its native vegetation and is little fragmented. Although abundant and fully functioning on the peninsula, tropical savannahs are now rare and highly degraded in other parts of the world. Cape York Peninsula also contains one of the highest rates of endemism in Australia, with more than 260 endemic plant species found so far. Therefore, parts of the peninsula have been noted for their exceptionally high wilderness quality. \nThe flora of the peninsula includes original Gondwanan species, plants that have emerged since the breakup of Gondwana and species from Indo-Malaya and from across the Torres Strait in New Guinea with the most variety being found in the rainforest areas. Most of the Cape York Peninsula is drier than nearby New Guinea which limits the rainforest plants of that island from migrating across to Australia.\n\nTropical rainforests cover an area of , or 5.6 percent of the total land area of Cape York Peninsula. Rainforests depend on some level of rainfall throughout the long dry season, climatic conditions that are mostly found on the eastern slopes of the peninsula’s coastal ranges. Being almost exclusively untouched, old-growth forests and supporting a disproportionately high biodiversity including flora of Gondwanan and New Guinean origin, the rainforests are of high conservation significance. The largest contiguous rainforest area on the peninsula occurs in the McIllwraith Range-Iron Range area. The Gondwanan flora of this area includes Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae conifers and \"Arthrochilus\", \"Corybas\", and \"Calochilus\" orchids. In all, this rainforest contains at least 1000 different plants, including 100 rare or threatened species, and 16% of Australia's orchid species.\n\nOn poor, dry soils tropical heathlands can be found. Northeast Cape York Peninsula supports Australia’s largest areas of this highly diverse ecosystem.\n\nThe extensive wetlands on Cape York Peninsula are \"among the largest, richest and most diverse in Australia\". 19 wetlands of national significance have been identified, mostly on the large floodplains and in coastal areas. Important wetlands include the Jardine Complex, Lakefield systems and the estuaries of the great rivers of the western plains. Many of these wetlands come into existence only during the wet season and support rare or uncommon plant communities.\n\nThe peninsula’s coastal areas and river estuaries are lined with mangrove forests of kwila and other trees. Australia’s largest mangrove forest can be found at Newcastle Bay.\n\nThe peninsula harbours an extraordinary biodiversity, with more than 700 vertebrate land animal species of which 40 are endemic. As a result, from its geological history, \"the flora and fauna of Cape York Peninsula are a complex mixture of Gondwanan relics, Australian isolationists and Asian or New Guinean invaders\" (p. 41). Birds of the peninsula include buff-breasted buttonquail (\"Turnix olivii\"), golden-shouldered parrot (\"Psephotus chrysopterygius\"), lovely fairywren (\"Malurus amabilis\"), white-streaked honeyeater (\"Trichodere cockerelli\"), and yellow-spotted honeyeater (\"Meliphaga notata\") while some such as pied oystercatcher are found in other parts of Australia but have important populations on the peninsula. The peninsula is also home to the eastern brown snake, one of the world's most venomous snakes. Mammals include the rodent Cape York melomys, related to the extinct Bramble Cay melomys, which was found only on Bramble Cay in the Torres Strait and confirmed extinct in 2016.\n\nThe rainforests of the Iron Range National Park support species that are also found in New Guinea, including the eclectus parrot and southern common cuscus. Other rainforest fauna includes 200 species of butterfly including 11 endemic butterflies one of which is the huge green birdwing, the green tree python and the northern quoll, a forest marsupial that is now severely depleted from eating the introduced poisonous cane toads.\n\nThe riverbanks of the lowlands are home to specific wildlife of their own while the rivers including the Jardine, Jackson, Olive, Holroyd and the Wenlock are rich in fish. The wetlands and coastal mangroves are noted for their importance as a fish nursery and crocodile habitat, providing important drought refuge and finally the Great Barrier Reef lies off the east coast and is an important marine habitat.\n\nCattle station leases occupy about 57% of the total area, mostly located in central and eastern Cape York Peninsula. Indigenous land comprises about 20%, with the entire West coast being held under Native title. The remainder is mostly declared as National Park and managed by the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service. Land uses include broad-acre pastoralism, bauxite and silica sand mining, nature reserves, tourism and fishing. \n\nThere are extensive deposits of bauxite along the west or Gulf of Carpentaria coast. Weipa is the centre for mining. Much has been damaged by overgrazing, mining, poorly controlled fires and feral pigs, cane toads, weeds, and other introduced species but Cape York Peninsula remains fairly unspoilt with intact and healthy river systems and no recorded plant or animal extinction since European settlement.\n\nThe \"Cape York Peninsula Land Use Strategy\" study was commissioned by the Australian government in 1990 to create plans to protect the wilderness and a nomination for World Natural Heritage is currently being considered by the Queensland and Australian Federal governments. Major national parks include the Jardine River National Park in the far north, Mungkan Kandju National Park near Aurukun, and Lakefield National Park in the southeast of the bioregion.\n\nThe first known contact between Europeans and Aborigines occurred on the west coast of the peninsula in 1606 but it was not settled by Europeans until the 19th century when fishing communities, then stations and later mining towns were established. European settlement led to the displacement of Aboriginal communities and the arrival of Torres Strait Islanders on the mainland. Today the peninsula has a population of only about 18,000, of which a large percentage (~60%) are Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders.\n\nThe administrative and commercial centre for much of Cape York Peninsula is Cooktown, located in its far southeastern corner while the peninsula’s largest settlement is the mining town Weipa on the Gulf of Carpentaria. The remainder is extremely sparsely populated, with about half the population living in very small settlements and cattle ranches. Along the peninsula developmental road, there are small service centres at Lakeland, Laura and Coen. About offshore north of the tip of Cape York, there is a sizeable service centre on nearby Thursday Island. Aboriginal communities are at Hopevale, Pormpuraaw, Kowanyama, Aurukun, Lockhart River, Napranum, Mapoon, Injinoo, New Mapoon and Umagico. Torres Strait Islander communities on the mainland are at Bamaga and Seisia. A completely sealed inland road links Cairns and the Atherton Tableland to Lakeland and Cooktown. The road north of Lakeland Downs to the tip of the peninsula is sometimes cut after heavy rains during the wet season (roughly December to May).\n\nThe peninsula is a popular tourist destination in the dry season for camping, hiking, bird watching and fishing enthusiasts. Many people make the adventurous, but rewarding, drive to the tip of Cape York, the northernmost point of mainland Australia.\n\nSome of the world's most extensive and ancient aboriginal rock painting galleries surround the town of Laura, some of which are available for public viewing. There is also a new interpretive centre from which information on the rock art and local culture is available and tours can be arranged.\n\nThere are two roads passing north-south through Cape York Peninsula to Cape York: the Peninsula Developmental Road (PDR) and the Northern Peninsula Road (also called Bamaga Road and Telegraph Road).\n\nBamaga Road now bypasses the overland telegraph line (OTL) track, which is often referred to as the tele track. The tele track was used for construction and maintenance of the OTL until it was superseded by first microwave relay towers and then by fibre optic cables, and is now used by four-wheel drive vehicle enthusiasts in the dry season. Many crossings, such as the bridge over the Wenlock near Moreton station, have been upgraded; however, many fords remain. The roads are unsealed and in places are difficult to traverse. They are considered suitable for four-wheel-drive vehicles only and also considered only suitable to be driven in the dry season.\n\nIn 1986 Cape York became the proposed site of a spaceport, which a consortium of companies, the Cape York Space Agency, promoted with support from the federal government. In 1992 investor support failed, and in 2017 legal ownership of of land required was returned to the Wuthathi, Kuku Yau and Northern Kaanju people. The development, which was heavily supported by Queensland premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen. would have included a new town, tourist resorts, an airport and a harbour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13035576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13035576", "title": "Cryopediology", "text": "Cryopediology\n\nCryopediology is any study relating to the behavior of frozen snow. The shapes into which frozen snow is blown by the wind (e.g. on the tundra) are said to be 'cryopediological formations'. The ways in which frozen snow behaves due to factors intrinsic to itself and relating to environments are 'cryopediological processes'.\n"}
{"id": "42963378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42963378", "title": "Desert riparian", "text": "Desert riparian\n\nDesert riparian is a North American desert vegetation type (or biome) occurring in the bottoms of canyons and drainages that have water at or near the surface most of the year. It is contrasted with the desert dry wash vegetation type in which water at or near the surface is lacking most of the year. The visual character is of large, lush green trees surrounded by dry desert vegetation and soil coloration. The area may be in a patch surrounding a spring (oasis), or in a strand following the course of water flow. Over 80% of known desert wildlife species use desert riparian areas. Common dominant species include Fremont cottonwood (\"Populus fremontii\"), Arizona ash (\"Fraxinus velutina\"), arroyo willow (\"Salix lasiolepis\"), Goodding's willow (\"Salix gooddingii\"), red willow (\"Salix laevigata\"), California fan palm (\"Washingtonia filifera\"), and invasive species such as salt cedar (\"Tamarix ramosissima\"), giant reed (\"Arundo donax\"), and Russian olive (\"Elaeagnus angustifolia\"). Salt cedar is particularly causing problems for this ecosystem because it is able to extract water more efficiently than cottonwoods and willows. Many noninvasive non-native species may also be found because springs and surface water areas in the desert often were old homesites where such species were intentionally planted, such as elm, black locust, and assorted fruit trees.\n\n"}
{"id": "4316600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4316600", "title": "Eagle-bone whistle", "text": "Eagle-bone whistle\n\nThe eagle bone whistle is a highly sacred religious object, used by some members of Native American spiritual societies in particularly sacred ceremonies. They are made from bones of either the American bald eagle or the American golden eagle, and are considered extremely powerful spiritual objects.\n\nEagle bone whistles are only used in certain ceremonies in the Southwest and Plains cultures. The eagle bone whistle may be considered as a ceremonial or sacred object which may not be considered a musical instrument, if music is defined as entertainment: \"There is no time or need...to wallow in distinctions between a feather-and-bone raptor and a bone whistle avian mysticism; one would no doubt end in dichotomous Western readings thereof.\"\n\nThe whistle is used in some Peyote ceremonies of some sects of the Native American Church. Eagle bone whistles are used in a number of Sun Dance cultures, such as the Crow. The eagle-bone whistle is also used by the Lakota people in certain ceremonies, such as some Sun Dances.\n\nNavajo/Ute flutist R. Carlos Nakai claims to use an \"eagle-bone whistle\" (or possibly an imitation one) on multiple albums.\n\nBoth the bald and golden eagle are protected by federal law: the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 (MBTA) prohibits the taking, killing, possession, transportation, and importation of migratory birds, their eggs, parts, and nests except as authorized under a valid permit as outlined at 50 CFR 21.11 The MBTA authorizes and directs the Secretary of the Interior to determine if, and by what means, the hunting of migratory birds should be allowed, as well as to adopt and implement suitable regulations permitting and governing the hunting of any type of migratory bird (for example, hunting seasons for ducks and geese). The Eagle feather law is another name for the exemptions to this act that are sometimes granted to enrolled members of federally recognized Native American tribes. Penalties under the MBTA include a maximum of two years imprisonment and $250,000 fine for a felony conviction and six months imprisonment or $5,000 fine for a misdemeanor conviction. Fines double if the violator is an organization rather than an individual. These laws would apply to the collection and use of eagle bone whistles.\n\n"}
{"id": "41077022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41077022", "title": "Earth's internal heat budget", "text": "Earth's internal heat budget\n\nEarth's internal heat budget is fundamental to the thermal history of the Earth. The flow of heat from Earth's interior to the surface is estimated at formula_1 terawatts (TW) and comes from two main sources in roughly equal amounts: the \"radiogenic heat\" produced by the radioactive decay of isotopes in the mantle and crust, and the \"primordial heat\" left over from the formation of the Earth.\n\nEarth's internal heat powers most geological processes and drives plate tectonics. Despite its geological significance, this heat energy coming from Earth's interior is actually only 0.03% of Earth's total energy budget at the surface, which is dominated by 173,000 TW of incoming solar radiation. The insolation that eventually, after reflection, reaches the surface penetrates only several tens of centimeters on the daily cycle and only several tens of meters on the annual cycle. This renders solar radiation minimally relevant for internal processes.\n\nBased on calculations of Earth's cooling rate, which assumed constant conductivity in the Earth's interior, in 1862 William Thomson (later made Lord Kelvin) estimated the age of the Earth at 98 million years, which contrasts with the age of 4.5 billion years obtained in the 20th century by radiometric dating. As pointed out by John Perry in 1895 a variable conductivity in the Earth's interior could expand the computed age of the Earth to billions of years, as later confirmed by radiometric dating. Contrary to the usual representation of Kelvin's argument, the observed thermal gradient of the Earth's crust would not be explained by the addition of radioactivity as a heat source. More significantly, mantle convection alters how heat is transported within the Earth, invalidating Kelvin's assumption of purely conductive cooling.\n\nEstimates of the total heat flow from Earth’s interior to surface span a range of 43 to 49 terawatts (TW) (a terawatt is 10 watts). One recent estimate is 47 TW, equivalent to an average heat flux of 91.6 mW/m, and is based on more than 38,000 measurements. The respective mean heat flows of continental and oceanic crust are 70.9 and 105.4 mW/m.\n\nWhile the total internal Earth heat flow to the surface is well constrained, the relative contribution of the two main sources of Earth's heat, radiogenic and primordial heat, are highly uncertain because their direct measurement is difficult. Chemical and physical models give estimated ranges of 15–41 TW and 12–30 TW for radiogenic heat and primordial heat, respectively. \n\nThe structure of the Earth is a rigid outer crust that is composed of thicker continental crust and thinner oceanic crust, solid but plastically flowing mantle, a liquid outer core, and a solid inner core. The fluidity of a material is proportional to temperature; thus, the solid mantle can still flow on long time scales, as a function of its temperature and therefore as a function of the flow of Earth's internal heat. The mantle convects in response to heat escaping from Earth's interior, with hotter and more buoyant mantle rising and cooler, and therefore denser, mantle sinking. This convective flow of the mantle drives the movement of Earth's lithospheric plates; thus, an additional reservoir of heat in the lower mantle is critical for the operation of plate tectonics and one possible source is an enrichment of radioactive elements in the lower mantle.\n\nEarth heat transport occurs by conduction, mantle convection, hydrothermal convection, and volcanic advection. Earth's internal heat flow to the surface is thought to be 80% due to mantle convection, with the remaining heat mostly originating in the Earth's crust, with about 1% due to volcanic activity, earthquakes, and mountain building. Thus, about 99% of Earth's internal heat loss at the surface is by conduction through the crust, and mantle convection is the dominant control on heat transport from deep within the Earth. Most of the heat flow from the thicker continental crust is attributed to internal radiogenic sources, in contrast the thinner oceanic crust has only 2% internal radiogenic heat. The remaining heat flow at the surface would be due to basal heating of the crust from mantle convection. Heat fluxes are negatively correlated with rock age, with the highest heat fluxes from the youngest rock at mid-ocean ridge spreading centers (zones of mantle upwelling), as observed in the .\n\nThe radioactive decay of elements in the Earth's mantle and crust results in production of daughter isotopes and release of geoneutrinos and heat energy, or radiogenic heat. Four radioactive isotopes are responsible for the majority of radiogenic heat because of their enrichment relative to other radioactive isotopes: uranium-238 (U), uranium-235 (U), thorium-232 (Th), and potassium-40 (K). Due to a lack of rock samples from below 200 km depth, it is difficult to determine precisely the radiogenic heat throughout the whole mantle, although some estimates are available. For the Earth's core, geochemical studies indicate that it is unlikely to be a significant source of radiogenic heat due to an expected low concentration of radioactive elements partitioning into iron. Radiogenic heat production in the mantle is linked to the structure of mantle convection, a topic of much debate, and it is thought that the mantle may either have a layered structure with a higher concentration of radioactive heat-producing elements in the lower mantle, or small reservoirs enriched in radioactive elements dispersed throughout the whole mantle.\n\nGeoneutrino detectors can detect the decay of U and Th and thus allow estimation of their contribution to the present radiogenic heat budget, while U and K is not detectable. Regardless, K is estimated to contribute 4 TW of heating. However, due to the short half-lives the decay of U and K contributed a large fraction of radiogenic heat flux to the early Earth, which was also much hotter than at present. Initial results from measuring the geoneutrino products of radioactive decay from within the Earth, a proxy for radiogenic heat, yielded a new estimate of half of the total Earth internal heat source being radiogenic, and this is consistent with previous estimates.\n\nPrimordial heat is the heat lost by the Earth as it continues to cool from its original formation, and this is in contrast to its still actively-produced radiogenic heat. The Earth core's heat flow—heat leaving the core and flowing into the overlying mantle—is thought to be due to primordial heat, and is estimated at 5–15 TW. Estimates of mantle primordial heat loss range between 7 and 15 TW, which is calculated as the remainder of heat after removal of core heat flow and bulk-Earth radiogenic heat production from the observed surface heat flow.\n\nThe early formation of the Earth's dense core could have caused superheating and rapid heat loss, and the heat loss rate would slow once the mantle solidified. Heat flow from the core is necessary for maintaining the convecting outer core and the geodynamo and Earth's magnetic field, therefore primordial heat from the core enabled Earth's atmosphere and thus helped retain Earth's liquid water.\n\nControversy over the exact nature of mantle convection makes the linked evolution of Earth's heat budget and the dynamics and structure of the mantle difficult to unravel. There is evidence that the processes of plate tectonics were not active in the Earth before 3.2 billion years ago, and that early Earth's internal heat loss could have been dominated by advection via heat-pipe volcanism. Terrestrial bodies with lower heat flows, such as the Moon and Mars, conduct their internal heat through a single lithospheric plate, and higher heat flows, such as on Jupiter's moon Io, result in advective heat transport via enhanced volcanism, while the active plate tectonics of Earth occur with an intermediate heat flow and a convecting mantle.\n\n"}
{"id": "1649731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649731", "title": "Ekman spiral", "text": "Ekman spiral\n\nThe Ekman spiral is a structure of currents or winds near a horizontal boundary in which the flow direction rotates as one moves away from the boundary. It derives its name from the Swedish oceanographer Vagn Walfrid Ekman. The deflection of surface currents was first noticed by the Norwegian oceanographer Fridtjof Nansen during the Fram expedition (1893–1896) and the effect was first physically explained by Vagn Walfrid Ekman.\n\nThe effect is a consequence of the Coriolis effect which subjects moving objects to an apparent force to the right of their direction of motion in the northern hemisphere (and to the left in the Southern Hemisphere). Thus, when a persistent wind blows over an extended area of the ocean surface in the northern hemisphere, it causes a surface current which accelerates in that direction, which then experiences a Coriolis force and acceleration to the right of the wind: the current will turn gradually to the right as it gains speed. As the flow is now somewhat right of the wind, the Coriolis force perpendicular to the flow's motion is now partly directed \"against\" the wind. Eventually, the current will reach a top speed when the force of the wind, of the Coriolis effect, and the resistant drag of the subsurface water balance, and the current will flow at a constant speed and direction as long as the wind persists. This surface current drags on the water layer below it, applying a force in its own direction of motion to that layer, repeating the process whereby that layer eventually becomes a steady current even further to the right of the wind, and so on for deeper layers of water, resulting in a continuous rotation (or spiraling) of current direction with changing depth. As depth increases, the force transmitted from the driving wind declines and thus the speed of the resultant steady current decreases, hence the tapered spiral representation in the accompanying diagram. The depth to which the Ekman spiral penetrates is determined by how far turbulent mixing can penetrate over the course of a pendulum day.\n\nThe diagram above attempts to show the forces associated with the Ekman spiral as applied to the Northern hemisphere. The force from above is in red (beginning with the wind blowing over the water surface), the Coriolis force (which is shown at right angles to the force from above when it should in fact be at right angles to the actual water flow) is in dark yellow, and the net resultant water movement is in pink, which then becomes the force from above for the layer below it, accounting for the gradual clockwise spiral motion as you move down.\n\nThe first documented observations of an oceanic Ekman spiral were made in the Arctic Ocean from a drifting ice floe in 1958. More recent observations include:\nCommon to several of these observations spirals were found to be 'compressed', displaying larger estimates of eddy viscosity when considering the rate of rotation with depth than the eddy viscosity derived from considering the rate of decay of speed. Though in the Southern Ocean the 'compression', or spiral flattening effect disappeared when new data permitted a more careful treatment of the effect of geostrophic shear.\n\nThe classic Ekman spiral has been observed under sea ice, but observations remain rare in open-ocean conditions. This is due both to the fact that the turbulent mixing in the surface layer of the ocean has a strong diurnal cycle and to the fact that surface waves can destabilize the Ekman spiral. Ekman spirals are also found in the atmosphere. Surface winds in the Northern Hemisphere tend to blow to the left of winds aloft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23635539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23635539", "title": "Energy in Ethiopia", "text": "Energy in Ethiopia\n\nEnergy in Ethiopia is energy and electricity production, consumption, transport, exportation and importation in Ethiopia.\n\nThe following table provides some of the most relevant energy sector numbers for Ethiopia, a developing country. The \"primary energy sector\" is by far the most important one in Ethiopia, with mainly wood used for cooking. That together with the population growth in Ethiopia results in issues like deforestation. Ethiopia aims at economic development and removal of poverty and to replace the use of wood by alternatives. This makes the \"secondary energy sector\" (with \"electricity\") most relevant for these efforts. Almost all recent developments are taking place in the secondary energy sector, with the construction of mainly hydropower plants and power transmission lines being most visible.\n\nPrimary energy is produced through the consumption of natural resources, renewable and non-renewable.\n\nAll imported primary energy sources are \"natural asphalt\". That material is exclusively used for roads construction but is not used to produce primary energy (heat/enthalpy). \n\nTherefore, Ethiopia produces its primary energy exclusively from inland resources. These inland resources are almost entirely traditional renewables from biomass and biofuels (like wood) and wastes. A common type of renewable biofuel is wood for heating or cooking in households, a type of resource, that is increasingly overused and overconsumed due to the Ethiopian population growth. Current natural reproduction of wood does not cover the annual use of 37 million tonnes of wood, 50% of the Ethiopian wood reserves of 1,120 million tonnes are exploited. Consequently, deforestation is a common problem in Ethiopia with all of its negative implications. Due to the population growth, energy demand is increasing, which is increasingly (due to the stressed primary energy sources) covered by secondary energy imports, see the table.\n\nNevertheless, the use of primary energy is also increasing. In part this is due to a more efficient use of agricultural wastes. Ethiopia has agricultural wastes \"reserves\" of 38 million tonnes per annum, but in 2011 only 6 million tonnes of them were used. This changes now. Such wastes can be used in households or in industrial processes, for example in thermal processing.\n\nBeyond the renewables, Ethiopia also has resources of non-renewable primary energies (oil, natural gas, coal, ...), but it does not exploit them. It also does not export them.\n\nEthiopia currently relies much on its reserves of wood for energy generation, see the table. Ethiopia in 2013 had 1,120 million tonnes of exploitable wood reserves.\n\nEthiopia also has liquid and solid hydrocarbon reserves (fossil fuels): oil by 253 million tonnes of oil shales and more than 300 million tonnes of coal. There are no plans in Ethiopia to exploit them and to use them for energy generation. The last time there were plans, in 2006, a 100 MW coal power plant (the Yayu coal power plant) with a nearby coal mine was under consideration. Due to severe environmental concerns all plans were stopped and cancelled in September 2006. The expected environmental destruction was considered to be way too severe.\n\nNatural gas makes up the most exploitable form of hydrocarbon reserves: a total of of natural gas reserves were found in two gas field in Ethiopia's Ogaden basin, the Calub and Hilala gas fields. All the gas will be exported to China, production wells are under construction in 2017. The two gas fields should be in production by 2019. Initial plans are to pump out 4 billion m per year.\n\nThe currently used biomass / biofuels for primary energy production in most cases do not need to be transported over more than local distances. This can be done by simple roads. The reason is simple: Ethiopia was (and still is to some extent) a subsistence economy, where the vast majority of goods is produced and consumed locally within a few kilometers around the home of people.\n\nA pipeline will be built to transport natural gas from the Calub and Hilala gas fields to a LNG terminal in the Port of Djibouti. This pipeline will be around 800 km in length and should be in operation by 2020. It will be a pipeline for 4 billion m per year. There are also low-priority plans to connect the triangle Kenya, South Sudan and Ethiopia through crude oil pipelines as part of the Kenyan LAPSSET-corridor.\n\nSecondary energy is produced by the consumption of \"secondary energy sources\", more often called \"energy carriers\". It is official policy worldwide and also in Ethiopia to replace primary energy through secondary energy and energy carriers are the vehicles to store this secondary energy. By doing so, the need to use primary energy for energy production in daily life will be replaced by the need to use energy carriers for energy production. This will relieve some pressure from the sources of primary energy in Ethiopia (wood, forests) and will also prevent the country from using its own domestic and non-renewable primary energy such as coal and oil shales.\n\nEnergy carriers are obtained through a man-made conversion process from primary energy sources. Most suitable for the production of energy carriers are abundant and renewable primary energy sources (like sun, water, wind, etc.) while the use of precious and limited non-renewable sources like oil is usually avoided as much as possible. A direct use of such abundant renewable primary energy sources (sun, water, etc...) is often not possible in technical processes, so it is more feasible to produce energy carriers to store and to transport energy that can later be consumed as \"secondary energy\".\n\nThe three main energy carriers in Ethiopia are refined oil products (diesel, gasoline, kerosene), electricity (from solar radiation, water, wind, heat) and bioethanol (from sugarcane). Bioethanol wasn't produced in substantial quantities until very recently, it makes up 0.4 TWh annually (2017). Electricity is about to replace diesel as the main energy carrier in Ethiopia – but taken all refined oil products altogether (38.5 TWh in 2014), electricity (22.5 TWh in 2016) will still take a few years before it will surpass oil products as main energy carrier. Both the amount of imported refined oil products and the produced electricity are increasing – but the growth rate for electricity is much higher than that for refined oil products. See the table. For a developing country it is usually the other way round.\n\nDiesel fuel is the main refined oil product in Ethiopia. It has a share of 20.1 TWh on the total of 37.3 TWh for refeined oil products. Diesel is used for thermal powerplants (oil powerplant) and for private and public diesel generators in parts of the country, where electrical power from the national grid is an issue. Diesel fuel is the main fuel for trucking. As Ethiopia is leaving the state of a subsistence economy, the demand for the transportation of goods is quickly increasing. In 2017, there is no operational railway in Ethiopia, so the transportation of goods needs trucks and roads. Gasoline, to be used in cars, is only 13% (2.7 TWh) of the value for diesel.\n\nMore important than gasoline but not as important as diesel is kerosene with 8.8 TWh. 3.1 TWh of kerosene is used for lighting, as electricity is not everywhere in Ethiopia. The remaining 5.7 TWh of kerosene is used for jet flights by Ethiopian Airlines, the state carrier of Ethiopia. Ethiopian Airlines is maybe the most successful state owned enterprise in Ethiopia, the largest and most successful airline Africas and also the airline with the largest cargo fleet in Africa in 2017. It is the cargo, that is of particular interest for Ethiopia. In recent years, flowers and horticulture products – which require air transport – quickly became one of the main export products of Ethiopia, to Europe and to China in particular.\n\nBioethanol is produced in currently ~6 sugar factories in Ethiopia (planned are 12 with bioethanol production facilities in 2020), where sugarcane is converted into sugar and the remaining sugar molasses into bioethanol. The ethanol fuel energy balance from sugarcane molasses can be considered to be favorable.In addition, by using the output from existing co-generation modules as part of the sugar production processes in Ethiopia, the bioethanol production does not require extra energy, which makes the bioethanol production even more favorable.\n\nIn 2017, the annual bioethanol production capacity was at 103,000 m. Together with planned capacities, the total production capacity in 2020 would amount to almost 300,000m per annum. Compared to the bioethanol world production in 2016, the existing bioethanol production makes up only 0.1% of the worldwide bioethanol production. For a poor and developing country like Ethiopia this is still a significant and valuable amount. Ethiopia itself uses its bioethanol to blend gasoline (ethanol is much cheaper than gasoline) and for cooking stoves. The produced amount of bioethanol is considered as energy carrier worth 400 GWh of secondary energy per annum. This is sufficient to blend all the imported motor gasoline to become gasohol/E10, which is mandatory in Ethiopia.\n\nAfter blending the gasoline, around 60–70 % of the ethanol is left over, this fuel goes into modern cook stoves as is provided to Ethiopia through Project Gaia. These cook stoves are burning fuel more efficiently, do not require wood as fuel and are thought to help protecting the forests of Ethiopia and to prevent deforestation.\n\nThe country focuses on the production of electricity from a mix of cheap and clean renewable primary energy sources like hydropower or wind power. Ethiopia has a total identified economically feasible potential of 45 GW of hydropower and 1,350 GW of wind power. The identified economically feasible potential from photovoltaics amounts to 5.2 GW while that from geothermal energies amounts to ~7 GW. Ethiopia plans to exploit these resources.\n\nFor a moderate average capacity factor of 0.4, that would mean a total electricity production potential of around 4,900 TWh, ~9 times the total primary energy the country did consume in 2014. As is obvious from such numbers, the country could replace most of its primary energy use through the use of electricity. More than that, the country could become a major exporter of electricity. It is an expressed wish of the Ethiopian government to become a world class exporter of large amounts of clean, cheap renewable energies in the future. However, going from 1% in 2010 to 4% in 2016 to 100% or even 900% in the (far) future is a long way to go.\n\nIn 2014, the country had an annual electricity production of 9,5 TWh. With this, Ethiopia was at position 101 and with an installed electricity generation capacity of 2.4 GW at the position 104 worldwide according to the CIA. In July 2017, the so-called \"nameplate\"power capacity, the overall installed power capacity, was up to 4,267.5 MW. 97.4% of that were from renewable primary energies like water and wind, with electricity from hydropower plants dominating with 89.7% and wind power with 7.6%. The completion of Gilgel Gibe III in 2015/16 added another 1870 MW capacity to the country's power production, more than doubling the country's production capacity from the year before.\n\nIn 2010, electricity production made up only ~1 % of Ethiopia's primary energy. Between 2010 and 2016, the production of electricity went up from around ~5 TWh to around ~22 TWh (around 4% of the primary energy value). This was due to an ambitious program to build wind farms and hydropower plants to produce electricity. By looking at the table above, the annual production of energy carriers (electricity) within Ethiopia is growing faster than the growing need for primary energy. But the need for primary energy is still increasing in Ethiopia, even on a \"per person\" base. So, while energy carriers are increasingly produced, the general \"availability\" of them is not given to an extent that would allow the reduction of the use of primary energy. Also, imports of refined oil products are increasing, which cannot be avoided for a developing country (the transport of goods becomes much more important than for a subsistence economy).\n\nTransport of electricity is done through electricity containers, such as power transmission lines and batteries. Especially the availability of a network of power transmission lines, a power grid, defines the amount of availability of electricity as the major source for secondary energy. Of course also in the case of Ethiopia. This is given through the degree of electrification. A higher electrification means an increasing demand for electricity.\n\nIn Ethiopia, the total demand for electrical power is increasing by ~30 % annually. There is a race between available power generation capacities and the electrification and availability of electricity. In 2016 and 2017, while plenty of electricity was available through the addition of the new Gilgel Gibe III powerplant to the national power grid, substations and power transmission lines were running out of capacity, with frequent outages and shortages which resulted in a wave of additions of substations and power transmission lines.\n\nIn contrast to the primary energy sector, many sources of energy for the secondary energy sector are present both as renewable energies and in an abundant form. In total, Ethiopia has very good conditions for generating electricity through hydropower, wind power and geothermal power, all of them characterized by a very low CO-emission. The levelized cost of electricity generation in recent years became somewhat favorable for these clean ways to generate electricity.\n\nConstructing power stations is of high priority in Ethiopian politics. The country is permanently increasing its number of power stations with an increasing amount of power stations in operation and under construction. The amount of power stations in planning stage is even larger. Ethiopia fully focuses on renewable energies, mainly from hydropower and wind power, to increase its installed electricity production capacity.\n\nThe levelized cost of electricity is often considered to be lowest for hydropower if compared to other possible types of electricity generation. In addition, hydropower is by far the most favorable way of producing electricity when looking at the energy returned on energy invested. This makes hydropower a favorable source of energy.\n\nOn the other hand, side, the country is often affected by droughts. Hydropower projects (dams) help setting up irrigation projects in certain parts of Ethiopia while buffering the impact of droughts. It is official policy to fully utilize hydropower in Ethiopia in combination with irrigation, so the double-positive effect of getting both cheap energy and sufficient water explains the focus on hydropower projects.\n\nEthiopia in 2013 assumed a total economically feasible potential of 45 GW of hydropower. For a decent capacity factor of 0.4, one could expect an electrical energy generation of 158 TWh per annum in case of full exploitation of the feasible potential, which fits the expected numbers put forward by the Ethiopian Ministry of Water and Energy. 8.5% of the 45 GW of assumed hydrowoper potential of Ethiopia was exploited in 2017, the additional irrigation area gained through these hydropower installations is unknown outside Ethiopia.\n\nOnly 28% of the installed power is located in river basins (Atbara, Blue Nile, Sobat River) discharging into the River Nile, while the same basins contribute 64% to the economically feasible hydropower potential of 45 GB. One of the reasons for this imbalance is water politics in the Nile Basin. Ethiopia delivers roughly 81% of water volume to the Nile through the river basins of the Blue Nile, Sobat River and Atbara. In 1959, Egypt and Sudan signed a bilateral treaty, the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement, which gave both countries exclusive maritime rights over the Nile waters. Ever since, Egypt under international law vetoed almost all projects in Ethiopia that sought to utilize the local Nile tributaries. This had the effect of discouraging external financing of hydropower and irrigation projects in western Ethiopia, thereby impeding water resource-based economic development projects. External financing for hydropower projects in other Ethiopian river basins was easier to get.\n\nOne example for this discouraging effect is the \"Chemoga Yeda\"-project, that, according to Ethiopian voices, was considered to affect less than 1% of the water system of the Blue Nile. This project in 2011 had secured external financing and was considered \"under construction\" already, when it received an Egyptian veto under international law. The project lost its financing. In 2015, another attempt was started to finance the project, the outcome hasn't been reported to the media. In 2011, another project was started in the Blue Nile basin, the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD). This project was also vetoed by Egypt, but Ethiopia this time made it a \"National Project\" and started the project without external financing (except from the Ethiopian Diaspora). GERD will add 6.45 GW of installed power but comes without irrigation. Nonetheless, in 2013 Egypt issued harsh statements just short of war threatening, seeing the River Nile as its sole lifeline in danger.\n\nAnother dam under construction, outside the River Nile basin and not facing vetoes by Egypt, nevertheless saw a lot of criticism, this time from environmentalists. The construction of the large Gilgel Gibe III hydroelectric project, which after commissioning in 2016 more than doubled Ethiopias installed electricity generation capabilities and is one of the largest hydropower projects in Africa, was feared to reduce the flow of the Omo River. And so much, that the people along the banks of the Omo River would be heavily affected and Lake Turkana, the terminus of the Omo River and its endorheic basin would become a saline lake and finally dry up. The risk of earthquakes at the dam site (magnitudes of up to 8) was also highlighted. The dam is fully in operation as of 2017 and it needs to be seen, whether or not the predictions become reality.\n\nThe Ethiopian government increasingly focuses on wind power. In contrast to hydropower projects, which re-allocate water resources to some extent, only locals feel negatively impacted by wind farms to some extent. The levelized cost of electricity from wind power worldwide is falling and is now (2017) roughly that of hydropower. It is expected to fall further due to maturing technologies, increasing wind power popularity and more suitable sites where wind power plants can be installed when compared to hydropower. By taking these developments into account, the Ethiopian Ministry of Water and Energy revised its numbers on an economically feasible wind power potential within only a few years from 10 GW to 1,350 GW.\n\nWind power is ideally suited to complement hydro power. Oversimplified is wind power available in Ethiopia in times of water shortages, while abundant water is present when no wind is blowing. During the Ethiopian dry seasons, steady trade winds are blowing all over the country while it is dry. During the summer wet season, the wet monsoon dominates in Western Ethiopia with plenty of water available, while winds are rather weak over most of Ethiopia.\n\nAlmost 80% of the identified favorable sites for wind power development are within the Somali Region of Ethiopia, most of it which would require long transmission lines to the Ethiopian cities. The remaining ~300 GW are more evenly distributed across Ethiopia (1,000 TWh per annum for a capacity factor of 0.4). This potential is still much bigger than that from hydropower.\n\nPredicted by Swanson's law, the levelized costs for photovoltaics have plunged to levels just above that of hydropower and wind power. For a country aiming at a most efficient economic development like Ethiopia, photovoltaics might become a \"big thing\" in the next few years. Ethiopia reportedly aims to diversify its electricity generation capabilities by investing into an \"energy mix\", of which photovoltaics will be a part.\n\nSome decent conditions to use solar energy (photovoltaics) can also be expected in Ethiopia, in particular in Tigray Region and on the eastern and western rims of the Ethiopian Highlands (roughly 2% of Ethiopia's area) have an annual solar irradiation of 2,200 kWh/(m•a) or more, with around 20% cell efficiency this results in a solar energy generation potential of ~0.45 TWh/(km•a). A solar-cell-covered area of 1,000 km (around 0,1 % of Ethiopia's area) could generate 450 TWh annually. In 2017, it was reported, that Ethiopia now seeks the installation of 5.2 GW from photovoltaic power stations. With a solar cell efficiency of 20%, an annual power generation of 9.1 TWh might be expected from the sum of all proposed photovoltaics power stations. Until 2020, 300 MW of photovoltaic installations should be developed. Explicitly mentioned was the 100 MW \"Metehara PV power station\", which was tendered in 2017.\n\nSolar thermal energy doesn't play any role in Ethiopias energy mix considerations. The expected levelized costs of solar thermal installations is quite high. A possible exception is to make use of co-generation, like for example, the use of solar pond technologies for salt ponds at sites like Dallol, where in 2017 a potash project is under development.\n\nPossibly exploitable are around 1,000–7,000 GW from geothermal energy, as the East African Rift runs through Ethiopia with a number of hot spots for energy generation from geothermal energy. It is planned to develop 570 MW of geothermal energy at two different sites within the Great Rift Valley, Ethiopia. Given a capacity factor of 0.8 that would make 4 TWh annually.\n\nIn exploiting geothermal energies, Ethiopia is piloting a way, that was previously unknown to this country in the energy sector (which is otherwise entirely owned by the state): foreign direct investments with a full private ownership of powerplants for 25 years with a power purchase agreement in place with a guaranteed price of US ¢7.53/kWh for the enterprise developing the Corbetti thermal site. This site alone is expected to generate 500 MW of the planned 570 MW.\n\nBy using co-generation, up to ten sugar plants with attached thermal power plants are planned or under construction in 2017, using bagasse as fuel. Expected is an installed capacity of between 200–300 MW. Two thirds would be used for sugar production while the remaining third could be delivered to the national grid. If one assumes a decent capacity factor of 0.8 (typical value for thermal power plants), there might be indeed some excess electricity added to the national grid. The generated energy will not add much to the national grid but it will prevent the sugar factories from becoming net consumers of electricity.\n\nBesides the co-generation facilities, a single waste-to-energy project (renewable energy) is running in Ethiopia. Also a number of diesel power plants exist (non-renewable fuel) to make electric power available, when no generation capacities from renewable and abundant energy sources are available for some reason.\n\nElectricity, refined oil products and bioethanol transport and distribution.\n\nIn communities without power and without power transmission lines there is no electrification? In Ethiopia that is not entirely true. The Ethiopian government bought around 40,000 Home Solar Systems (SHS) and some larger \"Institutional Solar Systems\" in China starting around 2014 with a battery storage and a maximum output power of about 50 W per panel under optimum solar irradiation conditions. These systems were distributed to remote rural communities to power school rooms, offices of authorities and households. The SHS operate at a rated voltage of 12 V DC, with a rated current of up to 5 A. LED lamps for lighting come with the SHS. The SHS can provide power for low power DC appliances such as lights, radios for about three to five hours a day. Until 2020, around 150.000 SHS should be bought.\n\nThis distribution of SHS was deemed necessary, as only 56% of Ethiopias population had access to the electric grid in 2017. Most of the 35% rural population of Ethiopia is not connected to the grid. Also affected by off-grid conditions in 2017 is a substantial part of the urban population.\n\nThat does not necessarily mean, that the urban population with nominal access to the electric grid was better off. Due to a quickly increasing demand of electric power of ~30 % per annum it came to a lot of power outages in 2016 and 2017, there was a lack of grid stability. In particular most the existing substations were running above their nominal capacity, while the capacity of standard voltage transmission lines (the last mile) was exceeded, too. Urban households were experiencing frequent outages lasting over days. Companies on the other hand were affected by energy rationing. To work around these outages, shortages and the rationing, some companies started to build their own substations to become independent from the public ones after which they enjoyed a more stable access to the grid with a higher allowed energy consumption. As a consequence of the shortages, Ethiopia in 2017 and 2018 invested a lot in new substations and standard voltage transmission lines with the promise, that at least the main urban centers and industrial parks would see a more stable electricity supply in 2018.\n\nThe least concern is given for the backbone of the electric grid. Ethiopia steadily invests in high voltage transmission lines (130 kV ac, 230 kV ac; 400 kV ac). For large energy exports to the wider East African area, Ethiopia and Kenya are now building a 500 kV HVDC line over 1045 km length, that is expected to carry 2 GW. In the long term, Ethiopia eyes HVDC lines to Egypt and to Europe.\n\nThere is a strongly growing need for refined oil imports (diesel, gasoline and kerosene) to the Ethiopian metropolitan areas (\"SE imports\", see the table above). This demand was covered in 2016 and 2017 by ~500 tank trucks daily leaving the Port of Djibouti towards Ethiopia. Plans to substitute the truck transport by 110 tank waggons on the newly built Addis Ababa–Djibouti Railway didn't arrive in reality in 2017. Also transported by road is bioethanol. The bioethanol production plants have road access but are usually located in remote areas so that tank trucks need to be used.\n\nA multi-fuel pipeline is ccurrently (2017) being built until 2019 over 500–600 km from Djibouti to Central Ethiopia (Awash), where a storage facility exists. This multi-fuel \"Horn of Africa Pipeline\" (HOAP) will transport all sorts of refined oil products.\n\n"}
{"id": "19356748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19356748", "title": "Energy in South Korea", "text": "Energy in South Korea\n\nSouth Korea is a major energy importer, importing nearly all of its oil needs and the second-largest importer of liquefied natural gas in the world.\nElectricity generation in the country mainly comes from conventional thermal power, which accounts for more than two thirds of production, and from nuclear power.\n\nEnergy producers were dominated by government enterprises, although privately operated coal mines and oil refineries also existed. The National Assembly enacted a broad electricity sector restructuring program in 2000, but the restructuring process was halted amid political controversy in 2004 and remains a topic of intense political debate.\n\nSouth Korea has no proven oil reserves. Exploration until the 1980s in the Yellow Sea and on the continental shelf between Korea and Japan did not find any offshore oil. Coal supply in the country is insufficient and of low quality. The potential for hydroelectric power is limited because of high seasonal variations in the weather and the concentration of most of the rainfall in the summer. As of 2017, South Korean President Moon Jae-in has vowed to end the country’s reliance on coal and also said the nation would move away from nuclear energy. He has taken a major step in that direction in June, saying his country would not try to extend the life of its nuclear plants, would close existing coal-fired plants, and would not build any new coal plants.\n\nFinal energy consumption by source (2010):\n\nThe Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) provided electricity in the country. When KEPCO's predecessor, KECO, was founded in 1961, annual power production was 1,770 GWh. Production reached 73,992 GWh in 1987. In that year, residential customers used 17.9% of total production, public and service businesses used 16.2%, and the industrial sector used 65.9%. Sources of power generation were primarily nuclear power, coal, oil, and liquefied natural gas. Of the 54,885 GWh of electricity generated in 1985, 22% came from nuclear plants then in operation, 74% from non-nuclear thermal plants (oil and coal), and 4% from hydroelectric sites. It was predicted in 1988 that the generation structure by the year 2000 would be 10.2% hydroelectric, 12.2% oil, 22.9% coal, 10.2% LNG, and 44.5% nuclear.\n\nKOGAS (한국가스공사) acts as importer of LNG for the power generators.\n\n\nSouth Korea placed a heavy emphasis on nuclear power generation. The country's first nuclear power plant, the Kori Number One located near Pusan, which opened in 1977. Eight plants operated in 1987 when atomic power generation was an estimated 71,158 million kilowatts, or 53.1% of total electric power.\n\nThe government decision in July 2008 to increase investment in renewable energy to reduce reliance on foreign oil imports may provide an incentive for conglomerates' solar plans. The Ministry of Knowledge and Economy said the country intends to spend 194.4 billion won ($193 million) on technologies and projects, including solar, wind and biofuels, in 2008.\n\nSouth Korea is fast-growing gigawatt-market for photovoltaics (PV). In 2014, the country ranked among the world-leading top-ten installers of PV systems. \n\nHydro also comes under Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Ltd. (한국수력원자력㈜)\n\nIn December 2017, Hyundai Electric announced a plan to build a 150MW grid storage battery near Ulsan for Korea Zinc.\n\nAccording to the Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center CDIAC South Korea is among the top ten, namely ninth, highest country in carbon dioxide emissions in the period 1950-2005. The United States (25%), China (10%) and Russia (8%) are the countries with the highest carbon dioxide emissions from 1950-2005.\n"}
{"id": "9560337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9560337", "title": "Energy security", "text": "Energy security\n\nEnergy security is the association between national security and the availability of natural resources for energy consumption. Access to (relatively) cheap energy has become essential to the functioning of modern economies. However, the uneven distribution of energy supplies among countries has led to significant vulnerabilities. International energy relations have contributed to the globalization of the world leading to energy security and energy vulnerability at the same time.\n\nIn the context of energy security, security of energy supply is an issue of utmost importance. Moreover, it is time to define \"a global energy policy model, which not only aims at ensuring an efficient environmental protection but also at ensuring security of energy supply\".\n\nRenewable resources and significant opportunities for energy efficiency exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries. Rapid deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and technological diversification of energy sources, would result in significant energy security and economic benefits.\n\nThe modern world relies on a vast energy supply to fuel everything from transportation to communication, to security and health delivery systems. Perhaps most alarmingly, peak oil expert Michael Ruppert has claimed that for every calorie of food produced in the industrial world, ten calories of oil and gas energy are invested in the forms of fertilizer, pesticide, packaging, transportation, and running farm equipment. Energy plays an important role in the national security of any given country as a fuel to power the economic engine. Some sectors rely on energy more heavily than others; for example, the Department of Defense relies on petroleum for approximately 77% of its energy needs. Threats to energy security include the political instability of several energy producing countries, the manipulation of energy supplies, the competition over energy sources, attacks on supply infrastructure, as well as accidents, natural disasters, terrorism, and reliance on foreign countries for oil.\n\nForeign oil supplies are vulnerable to unnatural disruptions from in-state conflict, exporters' interests, and non-state actors targeting the supply and transportation of oil resources. The political and economic instability caused by war or other factors such as strike action can also prevent the proper functioning of the energy industry in a supplier country. For example, the nationalization of oil in Venezuela has triggered strikes and protests in which Venezuela's oil production rates have yet to recover. Exporters may have political or economic incentive to limit their foreign sales or cause disruptions in the supply chain. Since Venezuela's nationalization of oil, anti-American Hugo Chávez threatened to cut off supplies to the United States more than once. The 1973 oil embargo against the United States is a historical example in which oil supplies were cut off to the United States due to U.S. support of Israel during the Yom Kippur War. This has been done to apply pressure during economic negotiations—such as during the 2007 Russia–Belarus energy dispute. Terrorist attacks targeting oil facilities, pipelines, tankers, refineries, and oil fields are so common they are referred to as \"industry risks\". Infrastructure for producing the resource is extremely vulnerable to sabotage. One of the worst risks to oil transportation is the exposure of the five ocean chokepoints, like the Iranian-controlled Strait of Hormuz. Anthony Cordesman, a scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C., warns, \"It may take only one asymmetric or conventional attack on a Ghawar Saudi oil field or tankers in the Strait of Hormuz to throw the market into a spiral.\"\n\nNew threats to energy security have emerged in the form of the increased world competition for energy resources due to the increased pace of industrialization in countries such as India and China, as well as due to the increasing consequences of climate change. Although still a minority concern, the possibility of price rises resulting from the peaking of world oil production is also starting to attract the attention of at least the French government. Increased competition over energy resources may also lead to the formation of security compacts to enable an equitable distribution of oil and gas between major powers. However, this may happen at the expense of less developed economies. The Group of Five, precursors to the G8, first met in 1975 to coordinate economic and energy policies in the wake of the 1973 Arab oil embargo, a rise in inflation and a global economic slowdown. NATO leaders meeting in Bucharest Romania, in April 2008, may discuss the possibility of using the military alliance \"as an instrument of energy security\". One of the possibilities include placing troops in the Caucasus region to police oil and gas pipelines.\n\nLong-term measures to increase energy security center on reducing dependence on any one source of imported energy, increasing the number of suppliers, exploiting native fossil fuel or renewable energy resources, and reducing overall demand through energy conservation measures. It can also involve entering into international agreements to underpin international energy trading relationships, such as the Energy Charter Treaty in Europe. All the concern coming from security threats on oil sources long term security measures will help reduce the future cost of importing and exporting fuel into and out of countries without having to worry about harm coming to the goods being transported.\n\nThe impact of the 1973 oil crisis and the emergence of the OPEC cartel was a particular milestone that prompted some countries to increase their energy security. Japan, almost totally dependent on imported oil, steadily introduced the use of natural gas, nuclear power, high-speed mass transit systems, and implemented energy conservation measures. The United Kingdom began exploiting North Sea oil and gas reserves, and became a net exporter of energy into the 2000s.\n\nIn other countries energy security has historically been a lower priority. The United States, for example, has continued to increase its dependency on imported oil although, following the oil price increases since 2003, the development of biofuels has been suggested as a means of addressing this.\n\nIncreasing energy security is also one of the reasons behind a block on the development of natural gas imports in Sweden. Greater investment in native renewable energy technologies and energy conservation is envisaged instead. India is carrying out a major hunt for domestic oil to decrease its dependency on OPEC, while Iceland is well advanced in its plans to become energy independent by 2050 through deploying 100% renewable energy.\n\nPetroleum, otherwise known as \"crude oil\", has become the resource most used by countries all around the world including Russia, China (actually, China is mostly dependent on coal (70.5% in 2010)) and the United States of America. With all the oil wells located around the world energy security has become a main issue to ensure the safety of the petroleum that is being harvested. In the middle east oil fields become main targets for sabotage because of how heavily countries rely on oil. Many countries hold strategic petroleum reserves as a buffer against the economic and political impacts of an energy crisis. All 28 members of the International Energy Agency hold a minimum of 90 days of their oil imports, for example.\n\nThe value of such reserves was demonstrated by the relative lack of disruption caused by the 2007 Russia-Belarus energy dispute, when Russia indirectly cut exports to several countries in the European Union.\n\nDue to the theories in peak oil and need to curb demand, the United States military and Department of Defense had made significant cuts, and have been making a number of attempts to come up with more efficient ways to use oil.\n\nCompared to petroleum, reliance on imported natural gas creates significant short-term vulnerabilities. The gas conflicts between Ukraine and Russia of 2006 and 2009 serve as vivid examples of this. Many European countries saw an immediate drop in supply when Russian gas supplies were halted during the Russia-Ukraine gas dispute in 2006.\n\nNatural gas has been a viable source of energy in the world. Consisting of mostly methane, natural gas is produced using two methods: biogenic and thermogenic. Biogenic gas comes from methanogenic organisms located in marshes and landfills, whereas thermogenic gas comes from the anaerobic decay of organic matter deep under the Earth's surface. Russia is the current leading country in production of natural gas.\n\nOne of the biggest problems currently facing natural gas providers is the ability to store and transport it. With its low density, it is difficult to build enough pipelines in North America to transport sufficient natural gas to match demand. These pipelines are reaching near capacity and even at full capacity do not produce the amount of gas needed.\n\n Uranium for nuclear power is mined and enriched in diverse and \"stable\" countries. These include Canada (23% of the world's total in 2007), Australia (21%), Kazakhstan (16%) and more than 10 other countries. Uranium is mined and fuel is manufactured significantly in advance of need. Nuclear fuel is considered by some to be a relatively reliable power source, being more common in the Earth's crust than tin, mercury or silver, though a debate over the timing of peak uranium does exist.\n\nNuclear power reduces carbon emissions. Although a very viable resource, nuclear power can be a controversial solution because of the risks associated with it. Another factor in the debate with nuclear power is that many people or companies simply do not want any nuclear energy plant or radioactive waste near them.\n\nCurrently, nuclear power provides 13% of the world's total electricity. The most notable use of nuclear power within the United States is in U.S. Navy aircraft carriers and submarines, which have been exclusively nuclear-powered for several decades. These classes of ship provide the core of the Navy's power, and as such are the single most noteworthy application of nuclear power in that country.\n\nThe deployment of renewable technologies usually increases the diversity of electricity sources and, through local generation, contributes to the flexibility of the system and its resistance to central shocks. For those countries where growing dependence on imported gas is a significant energy security issue, renewable technologies can provide alternative sources of electric power as well as displacing electricity demand through direct heat production. Renewable biofuels for transport represent a key source of diversification from petroleum products.\n\nAs the resources that have been so crucial to survival in the world to this day start declining in numbers, countries will begin to realize that the need for renewable fuel sources will be as vital as ever. With the production of new types of energy, including solar, geothermal, hydro-electric, biofuel, and wind power. With the amount of solar energy that hits the world in one hour there is enough energy to power the world for one year. With the addition of solar panels all around the world a little less pressure is taken off the need to produce more oil.\n\nGeothermal can potentially lead to other sources of fuel, if companies would take the heat from the inner core of the earth to heat up water sources we could essentially use the steam creating from the heated water to power machines, this option is one of the cleanest and efficient options. Hydro-electric which has been incorporated into many of the dams around the world, produces a lot of energy, and is very easy to produce the energy as the dams control the water that is allowed through seams which power turbines located inside of the dam. Biofuels have been researched using many different sources including ethanol and algae, these options are substantially cleaner than the consumption of petroleum. \"Most life cycle analysis results for perennial and ligno-cellulosic crops conclude that biofuels can supplement anthropogenic energy demands and mitigate green house gas emissions to the atmosphere\". Using oil to fuel transportation is a major source of green house gases, any one of these developments could replace the energy we derive from oil. Traditional fossil fuel exporters (e.g. Russia) struggle to diversify away from oil and develop renewable energy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57522544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57522544", "title": "Erma Johnson Fisk", "text": "Erma Johnson Fisk\n\nErma Johnson \"Jonnie\" Fisk (5 August 1905 – 11 January 1990) was a nature writer and amateur ornithologist, noted for her study of the least tern.\n\nErma Johnson graduated from Vassar College, where she participated in track and field as a long jumper. She married the wealthy financier Bradley Fisk, lived in Buffalo, New York, and became the mother of three children. When Bradley Fisk was United States Assistant Secretary of Commerce from 1957 to 1961 in the Eisenhower administration, Erma J. Fisk was a hostess in Washington D.C. She was widowed at age 55. She then became a full-time field naturalist and assisted ornithologists in various parts of the Western Hemisphere.\n\nAt the age of 75, she began writing books and soon became a literary celebrity. She traveled the lecture circuit in her VW Rabbit to visit colleges and signings at bookstores and women's clubs.\n\nIn 1952, the Fisks first visited Guana Island in the British Virgin Islands and had a cottage built there. In 1952, Jonnie Fisk started sending ornithological reports from Guana Island to the ornithologist James Bond in Philadelphia.\n\nThe three children of Bradley and Erma Fisk were Bradley Jr. (1927–1997), Irving Lester (1928–1984), and Amanda (born 1936). The poet and radio personality Molly Fisk is a granddaughter of Erma J. Fisk.\n\n"}
{"id": "46456636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46456636", "title": "European Union and its Member States — Certain Measures Relating to the Energy Sector", "text": "European Union and its Member States — Certain Measures Relating to the Energy Sector\n\nEuropean Union and its Member States — Certain Measures Relating to the Energy Sector, DS476, is the formal name of a case brought by the Russian Federation against the European Union and its member states in the World Trade Organization's Dispute Settlement Body.\n\nThe case was formally initiated with the filing of a complaint by Russia (in WTO terms, a \"request for consultations\") on April 30, 2014. The dispute concerns the EU's Third Energy Package, which consists of various two EU directives and EU regulations.\n\nRussia claims that the measures within the package violate Articles II, VI, XVI and XVII of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS); Articles I, III, X and XI of the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT); Article 3 of the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM); and Article 2 of the Agreement on Trade Related Investment Measures (TRIM).\nThe European Commission adopted the Third Energy Package, which came into effect in 2009. The measures aimed to promoted a more competitive European Union-wide market in the energy sector. One provision in the package prohibits energy suppliers from also owning distribution networks, including pipelines.\n\nThe new rules were opposed by Russia and its state-owned enterprise Gazprom, which supplies more than 25% of Europe's gas by transnational pipelines, and is the sole supplier of case for several EU member states, mostly Eastern European nations that were formerly part of the Soviet bloc. Russia considered filing a challenge to the Third Energy Package as early as November 2011.\n\nThe filing of the complaint in 2014 is viewed as part of a wider decline in relations between Russia and the EU, occurring simultaneously with tensions over the Russian occupation of Crimea and other Russian involvement in Ukraine. Russia previously filed an anti-dumping complaint against the EU in the WTO, while the EU filed a complaint against Russia in the WTO over its ban on imported pork products and a separate complaint over Russia's \"recycling fee\" for vehicles, which the EU argues is a protectionist policy that favors Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan, the three members of the Russian-led Eurasian Customs Union.\n\nAt an April 2014 meeting of the WTO Council for Trade in Goods, for example, Angelos Pangratis, the EU ambassador to the WTO, stated: \"The overall experience with Russia as WTO member is, to our regrets, rather disappointing. Russia has not shown willingness to put its trade measures in line with basic WTO obligations and has continued raising a number of trade obstacles inconsistent with its WTO obligations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "78481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78481", "title": "Evapotranspiration", "text": "Evapotranspiration\n\nEvapotranspiration (ET) is the sum of evaporation and plant transpiration from the Earth's land and ocean surface to the atmosphere. Evaporation accounts for the movement of water to the air from sources such as the soil, canopy interception, and waterbodies. Transpiration accounts for the movement of water within a plant and the subsequent loss of water as vapor through stomata in its leaves. Evapotranspiration is an important part of the water cycle. An element (such as a tree) that contributes to evapotranspiration can be called an evapotranspirator.\n\nPotential evapotranspiration (PET) is a representation of the environmental demand for evapotranspiration and represents the evapotranspiration rate of a short green crop (grass), completely shading the ground, of uniform height and with adequate water status in the soil profile. It is a reflection of the energy available to evaporate water, and of the wind available to transport the water vapour from the ground up into the lower atmosphere. Often a value for the potential evapotranspiration is calculated at a nearby climatic station on a reference surface, conventionally short grass. This value is called the reference evapotranspiration (ET). Actual evapotranspiration is said to equal potential evapotranspiration when there is ample water. Some US states utilize a full cover alfalfa reference crop that is 0.5 m in height, rather than the short green grass reference, due to the higher value of ET from the alfalfa reference.\n\nEvapotranspiration is a significant water loss from drainage basins. Types of vegetation and land use significantly affect evapotranspiration, and therefore the amount of water leaving a drainage basin. Because water transpired through leaves comes from the roots, plants with deep reaching roots can more constantly transpire water. Herbaceous plants generally transpire less than woody plants because they usually have less extensive foliage. Conifer forests tend to have higher rates of evapotranspiration than deciduous forests, particularly in the dormant and early spring seasons. This is primarily due to the enhanced amount of precipitation intercepted and evaporated by conifer foliage during these periods. Factors that affect evapotranspiration include the plant's growth stage or level of maturity, percentage of soil cover, solar radiation, humidity, temperature, and wind. Isotope measurements indicate transpiration is the larger component of evapotranspiration.\n\nThrough evapotranspiration, forests reduce water yield, except in unique ecosystems called cloud forests. Trees in cloud forests collect the liquid water in fog or low clouds onto their surface, which drips down to the ground. These trees still contribute to evapotranspiration, but often collect more water than they evaporate or transpire.\n\nIn areas that are not irrigated, actual evapotranspiration is usually no greater than precipitation, with some buffer in time depending on the soil's ability to hold water. It will usually be less because some water will be lost due to percolation or surface runoff. An exception is areas with high water tables, where capillary action can cause water from the groundwater to rise through the soil matrix to the surface. If potential evapotranspiration is greater than the actual precipitation, then soil will dry out, unless irrigation is used.\n\nEvapotranspiration can never be greater than PET, but can be lower if there is not enough water to be evaporated or plants are unable to transpire readily.\n\nEvapotranspiration can be measured or estimated using several methods.\n\nPan evaporation data can be used to estimate lake evaporation, but transpiration and evaporation of intercepted rain on vegetation are unknown. There are three general approaches to estimate evapotranspiration indirectly.\n\nEvapotranspiration may be estimated by creating an equation of the water balance of a drainage basin. The equation balances the change in water stored within the basin (\"S\") with inputs and outgoes:\n\nformula_1\n\nThe input is precipitation (\"P\") and the outgoes are evapotranspiration (which is to be estimated), streamflow (\"Q\"), and groundwater recharge (\"D\"). If the change in storage, precipitation, streamflow, and groundwater recharge are all estimated, the missing flux, ET, can be estimated by rearranging the above equation as follows:\n\nformula_2\n\nA third methodology to estimate the actual evapotranspiration is the use of the energy balance.\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere λE is the energy needed to change the phase of water from liquid to gas, R is the net radiation, G is the soil heat flux and H is the sensible heat flux. Using instruments like a scintillometer, soil heat flux plates or radiation meters, the components of the energy balance can be calculated and the energy available for actual evapotranspiration can be solved.\n\nThe SEBAL and METRIC algorithms solve the energy balance at the earth's surface using satellite imagery. This allows for both actual and potential evapotranspiration to be calculated on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Evapotranspiration is a key indicator for water management and irrigation performance. SEBAL and METRIC can map these key indicators in time and space, for days, weeks or years.\n\nOne method for measuring evapotranspiration is with a weighing lysimeter. The weight of a soil column is measured continuously and the change in storage of water in the soil is modeled by the change in weight. The change in weight is converted to units of length using the surface area of the weighing lysimeter and the unit weight of water. evapotranspiration is computed as the change in weight plus rainfall minus percolation.\n\nIn recent decades, estimating evapotranspiration has been improved by advances in remote sensing, particularly in agricultural studies. However, quantifying evapotranspiration from mixed vegetation environs, particularly urban parklands, is still challenging because of the heterogeneity of plant species, canopy covers and microclimates and because the methodology is costly. Different remote sensing-based approaches for estimating evapotranspiration have various advantages and disadvantages.\n\nThe most direct method of measuring evapotranspiration is with the eddy covariance technique in which fast fluctuations of vertical wind speed are correlated with fast fluctuations in atmospheric water vapor density. This directly estimates the transfer of water vapor (evapotranspiration) from the land (or canopy) surface to the atmosphere.\n\nThe most general and widely used equation for calculating reference ET is the Penman equation. The Penman-Monteith variation is recommended by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the American Society of Civil Engineers. The simpler Blaney-Criddle equation was popular in the Western United States for many years but it is not as accurate in regions with higher humidities. Other solutions used includes Makkink, which is simple but must be calibrated to a specific location, and Hargreaves. To convert the reference evapotranspiration to actual crop evapotranspiration, a crop coefficient and a stress coefficient must be used. Crop coefficients as used in many hydrological models usually change along the year to accommodate to the fact that crops are seasonal and, in general, plants behave differently along the seasons: perennial plants mature over multiple seasons, and stress responses can significantly depend upon many aspects of plant condition.\n\nMethods for measuring evapotranspiration can be adapted to an urban setting to estimate the water requirements of urban landscape vegetation.\n\nThe water requirement of urban landscapes, particularly urban parklands, is of growing concern. The estimation of evapotranspiration (ET) and subsequently plant water requirements in urban vegetation needs to consider the heterogeneity of plants, soils, water, and climate characteristics. In a research in South Australia, two practical ET estimation approaches are compared to a detailed Soil Water Balance (SWB) analysis over a one-year period. One approach is the Water Use Classification of Landscape Plants (WUCOLS) method, which is based on expert opinion on the water needs of different classes of landscape plants. The other is a remote sensing approach based on the Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensors on the Terra satellite. Both methods require knowledge of reference ET calculated from meteorological data. More information is available in:\n\n\"Comparing Three Approaches of Evapotranspiration Estimation in Mixed Urban Vegetation: Field-Based, Remote Sensing-Based and Observational-Based Methods\" *\n\n\"Water requirements of urban landscape plants: a comparison of three factor-based approaches\"*\n\n\"High Spatial Resolution WorldView-2 Imagery for Mapping NDVI and Its Relationship to Temporal Urban Landscape Evapotranspiration Factors\"*\n\nPotential evapotranspiration (PET) is the amount of water that would be evaporated and transpired by a specific crop or ecosystem if there were sufficient water available. This demand incorporates the energy available for evaporation and the ability of the lower atmosphere to transport evaporated moisture away from the land surface. Potential evapotranspiration is higher in the summer, on less cloudy days, and closer to the equator, because of the higher levels of solar radiation that provides the energy for evaporation. Potential evapotranspiration is also higher on windy days because the evaporated moisture can be quickly moved from the ground or plant surface, allowing more evaporation to fill its place.\n\nPotential evapotranspiration is expressed in terms of a depth of water, and can be graphed during the year (see figure).\n\nPotential evapotranspiration is usually measured indirectly, from other climatic factors, but also depends on the surface type, such as free water (for lakes and oceans), the soil type for bare soil, and the vegetation. Often a value for the potential evapotranspiration is calculated at a nearby climate station on a reference surface, conventionally short grass. This value is called the reference evapotranspiration, and can be converted to a potential evapotranspiration by multiplying with a surface coefficient. In agriculture, this is called a crop coefficient. The difference between potential evapotranspiration and precipitation is used in irrigation scheduling.\n\nAverage annual potential evapotranspiration is often compared to average annual precipitation, P. The ratio of the two, P/PET, is the aridity index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42317233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42317233", "title": "Flora of the Dominican Republic", "text": "Flora of the Dominican Republic\n\nThe flora of the Dominican Republic is diverse.\n\n"}
{"id": "3964619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3964619", "title": "Fog bow", "text": "Fog bow\n\nA fog bow, sometimes called a white rainbow, is a similar phenomenon to a rainbow; however, as its name suggests, it appears as a bow in fog rather than rain. Because of the very small size of water droplets that cause fog—smaller than —the fog bow has only very weak colors, with a red outer edge and bluish inner edge.\n\nIn many cases, when the droplets are very small, fog bows appear white, and are therefore sometimes called \"white rainbows\". This lack of color is the feature of a fog bow that distinguishes it from a glory, which has multiple pale-colored rings caused by diffraction. When droplets forming it are almost all of the same size, the fog bow can have multiple inner rings, or supernumeraries, which are more strongly colored than the main bow. According to NASA:\n\nThe fogbow's lack of colors is caused by the smaller water drops ... so small that the wavelength of light becomes important. Diffraction smears out colors that would be created by larger rainbow water drops ...\n\nA fog bow seen in clouds, typically from an aircraft looking downwards, is called a \"cloud bow\". Mariners sometimes call fog bows \"sea-dogs\".\n\nA fog bow is seen in the same direction as a rainbow, thus the sun would be behind the head of the observer and the direction of view would be into a bank of fog (which may not be noticeable in directions away from the bow itself). Its outer radius is slightly less than that of a rainbow.\n\nWhen a fog bow appears at night it is called a \"lunar fog bow\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5564520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5564520", "title": "Foliar feeding", "text": "Foliar feeding\n\nFoliar feeding is a technique of feeding plants by applying liquid fertilizer directly to their leaves. Plants are able to absorb essential elements through their leaves. The absorption takes place through their stomata and also through their epidermis. Transport is usually faster through the stomata, but total absorption may be as great through the epidermis. Plants are also able to absorb nutrients through their bark.\n\nFoliar feeding was earlier thought to damage tomatoes, but has become standard practice.\n\nA popular version of the feeding is to use sea-based plant mixes, especially kelp, which contains many of the fifty \"trace nutrients\"; the more such nutrients are needed, the harder it is to balance them within the soil. Kelp also contains some hormones considered good for the development of the plants' leaves, flowers and fruit, of interest to organic gardeners who reject artificial hormone applications.\n\nH.B. Tukey was head of Michigan State University (MSU) Department of Horticulture in the 1950s. Working with S. H. Wittwer, they proved conclusively that foliar feeding is effective. Radioactive phosphorus and potassium were applied to foliage. A Geiger counter was used to observe absorption, movement and nutrient utilization. The nutrients were transported at the rate of about one foot per hour to all parts of the plants.\n\nA spray enhancer can help nutrients stick to the leaf and then penetrate the leaves' cuticle. \n\nFoliar application has been shown to avoid the problem of leaching-out in soils and prompts a quick reaction in the plant. Foliar application of phosphorus, zinc and iron brings the greatest benefit in comparison with addition to soil where phosphorus becomes fixed in a form inaccessible to the plant and where zinc and iron are less available.\n\nFoliar feeding is generally done in the early morning or late evening, preferably at temperatures below 24°C (75°F), since heat causes the pores on some species' leaves to close.\n\n"}
{"id": "13078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13078", "title": "Garden of Eden", "text": "Garden of Eden\n\nThe Garden of Eden (Hebrew גַּן עֵדֶן, \"Gan ʿEḏen\"), also called Paradise, is the biblical \"garden of God\" described in the Book of Genesis and the Book of Ezekiel.. Genesis 13:10 refers to the \"garden of God\", and the \"trees of the garden\" are mentioned in Ezekiel 31. The Book of Zechariah and the Book of Psalms also refer to trees and water without explicitly mentioning Eden.\n\nThe name derives from the Akkadian \"edinnu\", from a Sumerian word \"edin\" meaning \"plain\" or \"steppe\", closely related to an Aramaic root word meaning \"fruitful, well-watered\". Another interpretation associates the name with a Hebrew word for \"pleasure\"; thus the Douay-Rheims Bible in Genesis 2:8 has the wording\n\"And the Lord God had planted a paradise of pleasure\" rather than \"a garden in Eden\". The Hebrew term is translated \"pleasure\" in Sarah's secret saying in .\n\nLike the Genesis flood narrative, the Genesis creation narrative and the account of the Tower of Babel, the story of Eden echoes the Mesopotamian myth of a king, as a primordial man, who is placed in a divine garden to guard the Tree of Life. The Hebrew Bible depicts Adam and Eve as walking around the Garden of Eden naked due to their innocence.\n\nThe location of Eden is described in the Book of Genesis as the source of four tributaries. The Garden of Eden is considered to be mythological by most scholars. Among those that consider it to have been real, there have been various suggestions for its location: at the head of the Persian Gulf, in southern Mesopotamia (now Iraq) where the Tigris and Euphrates rivers run into the sea; and in Armenia.\n\nThe second part of the Genesis creation narrative, , opens with YHWH-Elohim (translated here \"the God\", see Names of God in Judaism) creating the first man (Adam), whom he placed in a garden that he planted \"eastward in Eden\". \"And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.\"\n\nThe man was free to eat from any tree in the garden except the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Last of all, the God made a woman (Eve) from a rib of the man to be a companion for the man. In chapter three, the man and the woman were seduced by the serpent into eating the forbidden fruit, and they were expelled from the garden to prevent them from eating of the tree of life, and thus living forever. Cherubim were placed east of the garden, \"and a flaming sword which turned every way, to guard the way of the tree of life\" ().\n\nAccording to Lars-Ivar Ringbom the \"paradisus terrestris\" is located in Shiz in northeastern Iran.\n\nIn the prophet Ezekiel the \"son of man\" sets down God's word against the king of Tyre: the king was the \"seal of perfection\", adorned with precious stones from the day of his creation, placed by God in the garden of Eden on the holy mountain as a guardian cherub. But the king sinned through wickedness and violence, and so he was driven out of the garden and thrown to the earth, where now he is consumed by God's fire: \"All those who knew you in the nations are appalled at you, you have come to a horrible end and will be no more.\" (v.19).\n\nAccording to Terje Stordalen, the Eden in Ezekiel appears to be located in Lebanon. \"[I]t appears that the Lebanon is an alternative placement in Phoenician myth (as in Ez 28,13, III.48) of the Garden of Eden\", and there are connections between paradise, the garden of Eden and the forests of Lebanon (possibly used symbolically) within prophetic writings. Edward Lipinski and Peter Kyle McCarter have suggested that the Garden of the gods (Sumerian paradise), the oldest Sumerian version of the Garden of Eden, relates to a mountain sanctuary in the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges.\n\nThe Garden of Eden is considered to be mythological by most scholars. However there have been suggestions for its location: for example, at the head of the Persian Gulf, in southern Mesopotamia (now Iraq) where the Tigris and Euphrates rivers run into the sea; and in the Armenian Highlands or Armenian Plateau. British archaeologist David Rohl locates it in Iran, and in the vicinity of Tabriz, but this suggestion has not caught on with scholarly sources.\n\nThe location of Eden is described in the Book of Genesis, chapter 2, verses 10–14:\n\n\nIn the Talmud and the Jewish Kabbalah, the scholars agree that there are two types of spiritual places called \"Garden in Eden\". The first is rather terrestrial, of abundant fertility and luxuriant vegetation, known as the \"lower Gan Eden\". The second is envisioned as being celestial, the habitation of righteous, Jewish and non-Jewish, immortal souls, known as the \"higher Gan Eden\". The Rabbanim differentiate between \"Gan\" and Eden. Adam is said to have dwelt only in the \"Gan\", whereas Eden is said never to be witnessed by any mortal eye.\n\nAccording to Jewish eschatology, the higher Gan Eden is called the \"Garden of Righteousness\". It has been created since the beginning of the world, and will appear gloriously at the end of time. The righteous dwelling there will enjoy the sight of the heavenly \"chayot\" carrying the throne of God. Each of the righteous will walk with God, who will lead them in a dance. Its Jewish and non-Jewish inhabitants are \"clothed with garments of light and eternal life, and eat of the tree of life\" (Enoch 58,3) near to God and His anointed ones. This Jewish rabbinical concept of a higher Gan Eden is opposed by the Hebrew terms \"gehinnom\" and \"sheol\", figurative names for the place of spiritual purification for the wicked dead in Judaism, a place envisioned as being at the greatest possible distance from heaven.\n\nIn modern Jewish eschatology it is believed that history will complete itself and the ultimate destination will be when all mankind returns to the Garden of Eden.\n\nThe term \"jannāt ʿadni\" (\"Gardens of Eden\" or \"Gardens of Perpetual Residence\") is used in the Qur'an for the destination of the righteous. There are several mentions of \"the Garden\" in the Qur'an (2:35, 7:19, 20:117), while the Garden of Eden, without the word \"ʿadn\", is commonly the fourth layer of the Islamic heaven and not necessarily thought as the dwelling place of Adam. The Quran refers frequently over various Surah about the first abode of Adam and Hawwa (Eve), including surat Sad, which features 18 verses on the subject (38:71–88), surat al-Baqara, surat al-A'raf, and surat al-Hijr although sometimes without mentioning the location. The narrative mainly surrounds the resulting expulsion of Hawwa and Adam after they were tempted by Shaitan. Despite the Biblical account, the Quran mentions only one tree in Eden, the tree of immortality, which God specifically claimed it was forbidden to Adam and Eve. Some exegesis added an account, about Satan, disguised as a serpent to enter the Garden, repeatedly told Adam to eat from the tree, and eventually both Adam and Eve did so, resulting in disobeying God. These stories are also featured in the hadith collections, including al-Tabari.\n\nMembers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (also known as Mormons or Latter-day Saints) believe that after Adam and Eve were expelled from the Garden of Eden they resided in a place known as Adam-ondi-Ahman, located in present-day Daviess County, Missouri. It is recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants that Adam blessed his posterity there and that he will return to that place at the time of the final judgement in fulfillment of biblical prophecy.\n\nNumerous early leaders of the Church, including Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and George Q. Cannon, taught that the Garden of Eden itself was located in nearby Jackson County, Missouri, but there are no surviving first-hand accounts of that doctrine being taught by Joseph Smith himself. LDS doctrine is unclear as to the exact location of the Garden of Eden, but tradition among Latter-Day Saints places it somewhere in the vicinity of Adam-ondi-Ahman, or in Jackson County.\n\nThe Garden of Eden motifs most frequently portrayed in illuminated manuscripts and paintings are the \"Sleep of Adam\" (\"Creation of Eve\"), the \"Temptation of Eve\" by the Serpent, the \"Fall of Man\" where Adam takes the fruit, and the \"Expulsion\". The idyll of \"Naming Day in Eden\" was less often depicted. Much of Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" occurs in the Garden of Eden. Michelangelo depicted a at the Garden of Eden in the Sistine Chapel ceiling. In \"the Divine Comedy\", Dante places the Garden at the top of Mt. Purgatory. For many medieval writers, the image of the Garden of Eden also creates a location for human love and sexuality, often associated with the classic and medieval trope of the locus amoenus. One of oldest depictions of Garden of Eden is made in Byzantine style in Ravenna, while the city was still under Byzantine control. A preserved blue mosaic is part of the mausoleum of Galla Placidia. Circular motifs represent flowers of the garden of Eden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47637186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47637186", "title": "Gourmette", "text": "Gourmette\n\nIn France, a gourmette is a jewellery chain in the form of a plait, of which the plaits have rough and smooth sides. On the smooth side, at the front, the wearer tends to have a small badge with their Christian name etched thereon. Usually, it is designed so that the wearer can read the inscription on the badge.\n\nA gourmette is most often worn so that, if lost or in trouble, others can find the wearer's name and give or summon help. It is usually given on baptism.\n\nIt can be made of any material, but traditionally is of silver.\n\n"}
{"id": "1169995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169995", "title": "Herschel (crater)", "text": "Herschel (crater)\n\nThere are several impact craters named Herschel in the Solar System, although the best known is the huge crater on Saturn's moon Mimas. Most are named after the eighteenth-century astronomer William Herschel.\n\n"}
{"id": "3264579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3264579", "title": "Initial mass function", "text": "Initial mass function\n\nIn astronomy, the initial mass function (IMF) is an empirical function that describes the initial distribution of masses for a population of stars. The IMF is an output of the process of star formation. The IMF is often given as a probability distribution function (PDF) for the mass at which a star enters the main sequence (begins hydrogen fusion). The distribution function can then be used to construct the mass distribution (the histogram of stellar masses) of a population of stars. It differs from the present day mass function (PDMF), the current distribution of masses of stars, due to the evolution and death of stars which occurs at different rates for different masses as well as dynamical mixing in some populations.\n\nThe properties and evolution of a star are closely related to its mass, so the IMF is an important diagnostic tool for astronomers studying large quantities of stars. For example, the initial mass of a star is the primary factor determining its colour, luminosity, and lifetime. At low masses, the IMF sets the Milky Way Galaxy mass budget and the number of substellar objects that form. At intermediate masses, the IMF controls chemical enrichment of the interstellar medium. At high masses, the IMF sets the number of core collapse supernovae that occur and therefore the kinetic energy feedback.\n\nThe IMF is relatively invariant from one group of stars to another, though some observations suggest that the IMF is different in different environments.\n\nThe IMF is often stated in terms of a series of power laws, where formula_1 (sometimes also represented as formula_2), the number of stars with masses in the range formula_3 to formula_4 within a specified volume of space, is proportional to formula_5, where formula_6 is a dimensionless exponent. The IMF can be inferred from the present day stellar luminosity function by using the stellar mass-luminosity relation together with a model of how the star formation rate varies with time. Commonly used forms of the IMF are the Kroupa (2001) broken power law and the Chabrier (2003) log-normal.\n\nThe IMF of stars more massive than our sun was first quantified by Edwin Salpeter in 1955. His work favoured an exponent of formula_7. This form of the IMF is called the Salpeter function or a Salpeter IMF. It shows that the number of stars in each mass range decreases rapidly with increasing mass. The Salpeter Initial Mass Function is \nwhere formula_9 is the solar mass, and formula_10 is a constant relating to the local stellar density.\n\nLater authors extended the work below one solar mass (). Glenn E. Miller and John M. Scalo suggested that the IMF \"flattened\" (approached formula_11) below one solar mass.\n\nPavel Kroupa kept formula_12 above half a solar mass, but introduced formula_13 between and formula_14 below .\n\nChabrier 2003 for individual stars:\n\nChabrier 2003 for stellar systems (e.g. binaries):\n\nThe initial mass function is typically graphed on a logarithm scale of log(N) vs log(m). Such plots give approximately straight lines with a slope Γ equal to 1-α. Hence Γ is often called the slope of the initial mass function. The present day mass function, for coeval formation, has the same slope except that it rolls off at higher masses which have evolved away from the main sequence.\n\nThere are large uncertainties concerning the substellar region. In particular, the classical assumption of a single IMF covering the whole substellar and stellar mass range is being questioned in favour of a two-component IMF to account for possible different formation modes of substellar objects. I.e. one IMF covering brown dwarfs and very-low-mass stars on the one hand, and another ranging from the higher-mass brown dwarfs to the most massive stars on the other. Note that this leads to an overlap region between about 0.05 and where both formation modes may account for bodies in this mass range.\n\n"}
{"id": "25321684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25321684", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Wyoming", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Wyoming\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Wyoming designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of March 26, 2010, there were two Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Wyoming. No other sites are currently proposed for entry on the list, and one site has been cleaned up and removed from the NPL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5893956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893956", "title": "List of Tetrablemmidae species", "text": "List of Tetrablemmidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Tetrablemmidae as of September 14, 2012.\n\n\"Ablemma\" \n\n\"Afroblemma\" \n\n\"Anansia\" \n\n\"Bacillemma\" \n\n\"Borneomma\" \n\n\"Brignoliella\" \n\n\"Caraimatta\" \n\n\"Choiroblemma\" \n\n\"Cuangoblemma\" \n\n\"Fallablemma\" \n\n\"Gunasekara\" \n\n\"Hexablemma\" \n\n\"Indicoblemma\" \n\n\"Lamania\" \n\n\"Lehtinenia\" \n\n\"Maijana\" \n\n\"Mariblemma\" \n\n\"Matta\" \n\n\"Micromatta\" \n\n\"Monoblemma\" \n\n\"Paculla\" \n\n\"Pahanga\" \n\n\"Perania\" \n\n\"Rhinoblemma\" \n\n\"Sabahya\" \n\n\"Shearella\" \n\n\"Singalangia\" \n\n\"Singaporemma\" \n\n\"Sulaimania\" \n\n\"Tetrablemma\" \n\n"}
{"id": "21375846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21375846", "title": "List of Tinamidae species and subspecies", "text": "List of Tinamidae species and subspecies\n\nThere are 47 species and 123 sub-species from the Tinamidae Family\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10677198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10677198", "title": "List of earthquakes in Iran", "text": "List of earthquakes in Iran\n\nIran is one of the most seismically active countries in the world, being crossed by several major faults that cover at least 90% of the country. As a result, earthquakes in Iran occur often and are destructive.\n\nThe Iranian plateau is subject to most types of tectonic activity, including active folding, faulting and volcanic eruptions. It is well known for its long history of disastrous earthquake activity. Not only have these earthquakes killed thousands, but they have also led to waste of valuable natural resources. Since 1900, at least 126,000 fatalities have resulted from earthquakes in Iran.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "9132888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9132888", "title": "List of foliage plant diseases (Gesneriaceae)", "text": "List of foliage plant diseases (Gesneriaceae)\n\nThis is a list of diseases of foliage plants belonging to the family Gesneriaceae.\n\n"}
{"id": "33695581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33695581", "title": "List of forests in Ireland", "text": "List of forests in Ireland\n\nThis is an incomplete list of forests in Ireland.\n\nUpon the first arrival of humans in Ireland around 12,500 years ago, the entire island was predominantly covered in a blanket of thick woodland. These woodlands consisted largely of Oak and Pine forests. However, centuries of heavy deforestation meant that by the end of the 19th century the area of woodland and forest cover in Ireland was estimated to be approximately 69,000 hectares, or 1% of the national land area. During the first 75 years of the 20th century forestry in Ireland was almost exclusively carried out by the State and by 1985 forest and woodland cover had increased to approximately 420,000 hectares. The mid 1980s saw a significant increase in private forest development, with the introduction of EU funded grant schemes aimed at encouraging private land owners, mainly farmers, to become involved in forestry. As a result, the area of national forest estate in Ireland has now increased to approximately 700,000 hectares. Of this, approximately 45% is in private ownership and 55% is in the ownership of Coillte.\nIt must be remembered that the vast majority of forestry plantings in Ireland are non-native species, chiefly Sitka Spruce with the consequent damage to biodiversity and the environment.\nCounty Antrim\n\nCounty Armagh\n\nCounty Cavan\n\nCounty Donegal\n\nCounty Down\n\nCounty Fermanagh\n\nCounty Londonderry\n\nCounty Monaghan\n\nCounty Tyrone\n\nCounty Clare\n\nCounty Cork\n\nCounty Kerry\nCounty Limerick\nCounty Tipperary\n\nCounty Waterford\n\nCounty Carlow\n\nCounty Dublin\n\nCounty Kildare\n\nCounty Kilkenny\n\nCounty Laois\n\nCounty Longford\n\nCounty Louth\n\nCounty Meath\n\nCounty Offaly\n\nCounty Westmeath\n\nCounty Wexford\n\nCounty Wicklow\n\nCounty Galway\n\nCounty Leitrim\n\nCounty Mayo\n\nCounty Roscommon\n\nCounty Sligo\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12122279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12122279", "title": "List of longest rivers of Romania", "text": "List of longest rivers of Romania\n\nThis is the list of longest rivers of Romania which entirely or partially flow through Romania. For the full list in alphabetical order, see List of rivers of Romania (alphabetic).\n\nThe length and drainage area represent only the part of the river within Romania.\n"}
{"id": "3707505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3707505", "title": "List of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of Gujarat, India", "text": "List of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of Gujarat, India\n\nThe Gujarat state of western India has four National Parks and twenty-three Wildlife Sancturies which are managed by the Forest Department of the Government of Gujarat.\n\nThe wildlife sanctuaries are listed in descending order of area.\n\n"}
{"id": "1791044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791044", "title": "María Lionza", "text": "María Lionza\n\nMaría Lionza is the central figure in one of the most widespread indigenous religions in Venezuela. Her religion is a blend of African, indigenous, and Catholic beliefs. She is revered as a goddess of nature, love, peace, and harmony. She has followers in many layers of Venezuelan society from small rural villages to the modern capital of Caracas, where a statue stands in her honor. Both the salsa singer Rubén Blades and the New Weird America musician Devendra Banhart have composed songs in her honor.\n\nAccording to the legends, María Lionza was born in 1802 to an Indian chief from the region of Yaracuy. A statue on the Francisco Fajardo Highway in Caracas by the Venezuelan sculptor, Alejandro Colina, portrays her as a well-endowed and strong woman, riding a large tapir, and holding a female pelvis, to represent fertility. It is said that she reigned over the savage beasts, and in her throne were indigenous animals like turtles and snakes. She is said to still live on the mountain of Sorte, where her followers come to pay homage to her, calling her their \"Queen.\" Because of the tradition, the mountain of Sorte was declared a National Park in the 1980s.\n\nThe name María Lionza comes from \"Santa María de la Onza\" (\"Saint Mary of the Jaguar\"), from the full name \"Santa María de la Onza Talavera del Prato de Nívar\" given by the Catholic Church to Christianize the religion. Eventually the name was contracted to \"María Lionza\".\n\nThe indigenous religion of María Lionza, similar in most aspects to Santería, lies in the mountain of Sorte, in Yaracuy state, Venezuela, which is central to the religion. Therein is located the \"Altar Mayor\" or principal altar. As such, it is the main destination of pilgrimage from elsewhere in Venezuela and a place for people from the Caribbean to come to pay homage to the goddess. Though pilgrims come here all year round, the most important day is October 12. On this day, all the principal shamans and priests of María Lionza come together to pay homage to their Queen. Many of them do a tribal show called \"Baile de las Brasas\", where they do traditional dances, including dances over coals.\n\nThe myth of Maria Lionza has also influenced popular arts such as Victor Millan ( \"La Reina María Lionza\", 1965); and lately Honys Torres (\"Caracas Ciudad Mística\", 2012) and Francisco Rada (\"La Corte Bolivariana\", 2016), among several others.\n\nMaría Lionza is the highest and most important deity in the pantheon. She is part of a trinity of saints known as the \"tres potencias\" or \"three powers\". The other two figures in this trinity are Guaicaipuro, an Indian chief murdered by the Spanish colonists, and \"Negro Felipe\", a black slave who was also murdered by the colonists. \nThese three saints are the leading figures of the pantheon and lead several \"courts\" of lesser deities. These courts are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19048", "title": "Mass", "text": "Mass\n\nMass is both a property of a physical body and a measure of its resistance to acceleration (a change in its state of motion) when a net force is applied. The object's mass also determines the strength of its gravitational attraction to other bodies. \n\nThe basic SI unit of mass is the kilogram (kg). In physics, mass is not the same as weight, even though mass is often determined by measuring the object's weight using a spring scale, rather than balance scale comparing it directly with known masses. An object on the Moon would weigh less than it does on Earth because of the lower gravity, but it would still have the same mass. This is because weight is a force, while mass is the property that (along with gravity) determines the strength of this force.\n\nThere are several distinct phenomena which can be used to measure mass. Although some theorists have speculated that some of these phenomena could be independent of each other, current experiments have found no difference in results regardless of how it is measured:\n\nThe mass of an object determines its acceleration in the presence of an applied force. The inertia and the inertial mass describe the same properties of physical bodies at the qualitative and quantitative level respectively, by other words, the mass quantitatively describes the inertia. According to Newton's second law of motion, if a body of fixed mass \"m\" is subjected to a single force \"F\", its acceleration \"a\" is given by \"F\"/\"m\". A body's mass also determines the degree to which it generates or is affected by a gravitational field. If a first body of mass \"m\" is placed at a distance \"r\" (center of mass to center of mass) from a second body of mass \"m\", each body is subject to an attractive force , where is the \"universal gravitational constant\". This is sometimes referred to as gravitational mass. Repeated experiments since the 17th century have demonstrated that inertial and gravitational mass are identical; since 1915, this observation has been entailed \"a priori\" in the equivalence principle of general relativity.\n\nThe standard International System of Units (SI) unit of mass is the kilogram (kg). The kilogram is 1000 grams (g), first defined in 1795 as one cubic decimeter of water at the melting point of ice. However, because precise measurement of a decimeter of water at the proper temperature and pressure was difficult, in 1889 the kilogram was redefined as the mass of the international prototype kilogram of cast iron, and thus became independent of the meter and the properties of water. \n\nHowever, the mass of the international prototype and its supposedly identical national copies have been found to be drifting over time. It is expected that the re-definition of the kilogram and several other units will occur on May 20, 2019, following a final vote by the CGPM in November 2018. The new definition will use only invariant quantities of nature: the speed of light, the caesium hyperfine frequency, and the Planck constant.\n\nOther units are accepted for use in SI:\n\nOutside the SI system, other units of mass include:\n\nIn physical science, one may distinguish conceptually between at least seven different aspects of \"mass\", or seven physical notions that involve the concept of \"mass\". Every experiment to date has shown these seven values to be proportional, and in some cases equal, and this proportionality gives rise to the abstract concept of mass. There are a number of ways mass can be measured or operationally defined:\n\nIn everyday usage, mass and \"weight\" are often used interchangeably. For instance, a person's weight may be stated as 75 kg. In a constant gravitational field, the weight of an object is proportional to its mass, and it is unproblematic to use the same unit for both concepts. But because of slight differences in the strength of the Earth's gravitational field at different places, the distinction becomes important for measurements with a precision better than a few percent, and for places far from the surface of the Earth, such as in space or on other planets. Conceptually, \"mass\" (measured in kilograms) refers to an intrinsic property of an object, whereas \"weight\" (measured in newtons) measures an object's resistance to deviating from its natural course of free fall, which can be influenced by the nearby gravitational field. No matter how strong the gravitational field, objects in free fall are weightless, though they still have mass.\n\nThe force known as \"weight\" is proportional to mass and acceleration in all situations where the mass is accelerated away from free fall. For example, when a body is at rest in a gravitational field (rather than in free fall), it must be accelerated by a force from a scale or the surface of a planetary body such as the Earth or the Moon. This force keeps the object from going into free fall. Weight is the opposing force in such circumstances, and is thus determined by the acceleration of free fall. On the surface of the Earth, for example, an object with a mass of 50 kilograms weighs 491 newtons, which means that 491 newtons is being applied to keep the object from going into free fall. By contrast, on the surface of the Moon, the same object still has a mass of 50 kilograms but weighs only 81.5 newtons, because only 81.5 newtons is required to keep this object from going into a free fall on the moon. Restated in mathematical terms, on the surface of the Earth, the weight \"W\" of an object is related to its mass \"m\" by , where is the acceleration due to Earth's gravitational field, (expressed as the acceleration experienced by a free-falling object).\n\nFor other situations, such as when objects are subjected to mechanical accelerations from forces other than the resistance of a planetary surface, the weight force is proportional to the mass of an object multiplied by the total acceleration away from free fall, which is called the proper acceleration. Through such mechanisms, objects in elevators, vehicles, centrifuges, and the like, may experience weight forces many times those caused by resistance to the effects of gravity on objects, resulting from planetary surfaces. In such cases, the generalized equation for weight \"W\" of an object is related to its mass \"m\" by the equation , where \"a\" is the proper acceleration of the object caused by all influences other than gravity. (Again, if gravity is the only influence, such as occurs when an object falls freely, its weight will be zero).\n\nAlthough inertial mass, passive gravitational mass and active gravitational mass are conceptually distinct, no experiment has ever unambiguously demonstrated any difference between them. In classical mechanics, Newton's third law implies that active and passive gravitational mass must always be identical (or at least proportional), but the classical theory offers no compelling reason why the gravitational mass has to equal the inertial mass. That it does is merely an empirical fact.\n\nAlbert Einstein developed his general theory of relativity starting with the assumption of the intentionality of correspondence between inertial and passive gravitational mass, and that no experiment will ever detect a difference between them, in essence the equivalence principle. \n\nThis particular equivalence often referred to as the \"Galilean equivalence principle\" or the \"weak equivalence principle\" has the most important consequence for freely falling objects. Suppose an object has inertial and gravitational masses \"m\" and \"M\", respectively. If the only force acting on the object comes from a gravitational field \"g\", the force on the object is:\n\nGiven this force, the acceleration of the object can be determined by Newton's second law:\n\nPutting these together, the gravitational acceleration is given by:\n\nThis says that the ratio of gravitational to inertial mass of any object is equal to some constant \"K\" if and only if all objects fall at the same rate in a given gravitational field. This phenomenon is referred to as the \"universality of free-fall\". In addition, the constant \"K\" can be taken as 1 by defining our units appropriately.\n\nThe first experiments demonstrating the universality of free-fall were—according to scientific ‘folklore’—conducted by Galileo obtained by dropping objects from the Leaning Tower of Pisa. This is most likely apocryphal: he is more likely to have performed his experiments with balls rolling down nearly frictionless inclined planes to slow the motion and increase the timing accuracy. Increasingly precise experiments have been performed, such as those performed by Loránd Eötvös, using the torsion balance pendulum, in 1889. , no deviation from universality, and thus from Galilean equivalence, has ever been found, at least to the precision 10. More precise experimental efforts are still being carried out.\n\nThe universality of free-fall only applies to systems in which gravity is the only acting force. All other forces, especially friction and air resistance, must be absent or at least negligible. For example, if a hammer and a feather are dropped from the same height through the air on Earth, the feather will take much longer to reach the ground; the feather is not really in \"free\"-fall because the force of air resistance upwards against the feather is comparable to the downward force of gravity. On the other hand, if the experiment is performed in a vacuum, in which there is no air resistance, the hammer and the feather should hit the ground at exactly the same time (assuming the acceleration of both objects towards each other, and of the ground towards both objects, for its own part, is negligible). This can easily be done in a high school laboratory by dropping the objects in transparent tubes that have the air removed with a vacuum pump. It is even more dramatic when done in an environment that naturally has a vacuum, as David Scott did on the surface of the Moon during Apollo 15.\n\nA stronger version of the equivalence principle, known as the \"Einstein equivalence principle\" or the \"strong equivalence principle\", lies at the heart of the general theory of relativity. Einstein's equivalence principle states that within sufficiently small regions of space-time, it is impossible to distinguish between a uniform acceleration and a uniform gravitational field. Thus, the theory postulates that the force acting on a massive object caused by a gravitational field is a result of the object's tendency to move in a straight line (in other words its inertia) and should therefore be a function of its inertial mass and the strength of the gravitational field.\n\nIn theoretical physics, a mass generation mechanism is a theory which attempts to explain the origin of mass from the most fundamental laws of physics. To date, a number of different models have been proposed which advocate different views of the origin of mass. The problem is complicated by the fact that the notion of mass is strongly related to the gravitational interaction but a theory of the latter has not been yet reconciled with the currently popular model of particle physics, known as the Standard Model.\n\nThe concept of amount is very old and predates recorded history. Humans, at some early era, realized that the weight of a collection of similar objects was directly proportional to the number of objects in the collection:\n\nwhere \"W\" is the weight of the collection of similar objects and \"n\" is the number of objects in the collection. Proportionality, by definition, implies that two values have a constant ratio:\n\nAn early use of this relationship is a balance scale, which balances the force of one object's weight against the force of another object's weight. The two sides of a balance scale are close enough that the objects experience similar gravitational fields. Hence, if they have similar masses then their weights will also be similar. This allows the scale, by comparing weights, to also compare masses.\n\nConsequently, historical weight standards were often defined in terms of amounts. The Romans, for example, used the carob seed (carat or siliqua) as a measurement standard. If an object's weight was equivalent to 1728 carob seeds, then the object was said to weigh one Roman pound. If, on the other hand, the object's weight was equivalent to 144 carob seeds then the object was said to weigh one Roman ounce (uncia). The Roman pound and ounce were both defined in terms of different sized collections of the same common mass standard, the carob seed. The ratio of a Roman ounce (144 carob seeds) to a Roman pound (1728 carob seeds) was:\n\nIn 1600 AD, Johannes Kepler sought employment with Tycho Brahe, who had some of the most precise astronomical data available. Using Brahe's precise observations of the planet Mars, Kepler spent the next five years developing his own method for characterizing planetary motion. In 1609, Johannes Kepler published his three laws of planetary motion, explaining how the planets orbit the Sun. In Kepler's final planetary model, he described planetary orbits as following elliptical paths with the Sun at a focal point of the ellipse. Kepler discovered that the square of the orbital period of each planet is directly proportional to the cube of the semi-major axis of its orbit, or equivalently, that the ratio of these two values is constant for all planets in the Solar System.\n\nOn 25 August 1609, Galileo Galilei demonstrated his first telescope to a group of Venetian merchants, and in early January 1610, Galileo observed four dim objects near Jupiter, which he mistook for stars. However, after a few days of observation, Galileo realized that these \"stars\" were in fact orbiting Jupiter. These four objects (later named the Galilean moons in honor of their discoverer) were the first celestial bodies observed to orbit something other than the Earth or Sun. Galileo continued to observe these moons over the next eighteen months, and by the middle of 1611 he had obtained remarkably accurate estimates for their periods.\n\nSometime prior to 1638, Galileo turned his attention to the phenomenon of objects in free fall, attempting to characterize these motions. Galileo was not the first to investigate Earth's gravitational field, nor was he the first to accurately describe its fundamental characteristics. However, Galileo's reliance on scientific experimentation to establish physical principles would have a profound effect on future generations of scientists. It is unclear if these were just hypothetical experiments used to illustrate a concept, or if they were real experiments performed by Galileo, but the results obtained from these experiments were both realistic and compelling. A biography by Galileo's pupil Vincenzo Viviani stated that Galileo had dropped balls of the same material, but different masses, from the Leaning Tower of Pisa to demonstrate that their time of descent was independent of their mass. In support of this conclusion, Galileo had advanced the following theoretical argument: He asked if two bodies of different masses and different rates of fall are tied by a string, does the combined system fall faster because it is now more massive, or does the lighter body in its slower fall hold back the heavier body? The only convincing resolution to this question is that all bodies must fall at the same rate.\n\nA later experiment was described in Galileo's \"Two New Sciences\" published in 1638. One of Galileo's fictional characters, Salviati, describes an experiment using a bronze ball and a wooden ramp. The wooden ramp was \"12 cubits long, half a cubit wide and three finger-breadths thick\" with a straight, smooth, polished groove. The groove was lined with \"parchment, also smooth and polished as possible\". And into this groove was placed \"a hard, smooth and very round bronze ball\". The ramp was inclined at various angles to slow the acceleration enough so that the elapsed time could be measured. The ball was allowed to roll a known distance down the ramp, and the time taken for the ball to move the known distance was measured. The time was measured using a water clock described as follows:\n\nGalileo found that for an object in free fall, the distance that the object has fallen is always proportional to the square of the elapsed time:\n\nGalileo had shown that objects in free fall under the influence of the Earth’s gravitational field have a constant acceleration, and Galileo’s contemporary, Johannes Kepler, had shown that the planets follow elliptical paths under the influence of the Sun’s gravitational mass. However, Galileo’s free fall motions and Kepler’s planetary motions remained distinct during Galileo’s lifetime.\n\nRobert Hooke had published his concept of gravitational forces in 1674, stating that all celestial bodies have an attraction or gravitating power towards their own centers, and also attract all the other celestial bodies that are within the sphere of their activity. He further stated that gravitational attraction increases by how much nearer the body wrought upon is to their own center. In correspondence with Isaac Newton from 1679 and 1680, Hooke conjectured that gravitational forces might decrease according to the double of the distance between the two bodies. Hooke urged Newton, who was a pioneer in the development of calculus, to work through the mathematical details of Keplerian orbits to determine if Hooke's hypothesis was correct. Newton's own investigations verified that Hooke was correct, but due to personal differences between the two men, Newton chose not to reveal this to Hooke. Isaac Newton kept quiet about his discoveries until 1684, at which time he told a friend, Edmond Halley, that he had solved the problem of gravitational orbits, but had misplaced the solution in his office. After being encouraged by Halley, Newton decided to develop his ideas about gravity and publish all of his findings. In November 1684, Isaac Newton sent a document to Edmund Halley, now lost but presumed to have been titled \"De motu corporum in gyrum\" (Latin for \"On the motion of bodies in an orbit\"). Halley presented Newton's findings to the Royal Society of London, with a promise that a fuller presentation would follow. Newton later recorded his ideas in a three book set, entitled \"Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" (Latin: \"Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy\"). The first was received by the Royal Society on 28 April 1685–6; the second on 2 March 1686–7; and the third on 6 April 1686–7. The Royal Society published Newton’s entire collection at their own expense in May 1686–7.\n\nIsaac Newton had bridged the gap between Kepler’s gravitational mass and Galileo’s gravitational acceleration, resulting in the discovery of the following relationship which governed both of these:\n\nIf |a| is non-zero, the fraction is well-defined, which allows us to measure the inertial mass of \"m\". In this case, \"m\" is our \"reference\" object, and we can define its mass \"m\" as (say) 1 kilogram. Then we can measure the mass of any other object in the universe by colliding it with the reference object and measuring the accelerations.\n\nAdditionally, mass relates a body's momentum p to its linear velocity v:\nand the body's kinetic energy \"K\" to its velocity:\n\nThe primary difficulty with Mach's definition of mass is that it fails to take into account the potential energy (or binding energy) needed to bring two masses sufficiently close to one another to perform the measurement of mass. This is most vividly demonstrated by comparing the mass of the proton in the nucleus of deuterium, to the mass of the proton in free space (which is greater by about 0.239% - this is due to the binding energy of deuterium.). Thus, for example, if the reference weight \"m\" is taken to be the mass of the neutron in free space, and the relative accelerations for the proton and neutron in deuterium are computed, then the above formula over-estimates the mass \"m\" (by 0.239%) for the proton in deuterium. At best, Mach's formula can only be used to obtain ratios of masses, that is, as \"m\" /\"m\" = |a| / |a|. An additional difficulty was pointed out by Henri Poincaré, which is that the measurement of instantaneous acceleration is impossible: unlike the measurement of time or distance, there is no way to measure acceleration with a single measurement; one must make multiple measurements (of position, time, etc.) and perform a computation to obtain the acceleration. Poincaré termed this to be an \"insurmountable flaw\" in the Mach definition of mass.\n\nTypically, the mass of objects is measured in relation to that of the kilogram, which is defined as the mass of the \"international prototype kilogram\" (IPK), a platinum alloy cylinder stored in an environmentally-monitored safe secured in a vault at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in France. However, the IPK is not convenient for measuring the masses of atoms and particles of similar scale, as it contains trillions of trillions of atoms, and has most certainly lost or gained a little mass over time despite the best efforts to prevent this. It is much easier to precisely compare an atom's mass to that of another atom, thus scientists developed the atomic mass unit (or Dalton). By definition, 1 u is exactly one twelfth of the mass of a carbon-12 atom, and by extension a carbon-12 atom has a mass of exactly 12 u. This definition, however, might be changed by the proposed redefinition of SI base units, which will leave the Dalton very close to one, but no longer exactly equal to it.\n\nIn some frameworks of special relativity, physicists have used differing definitions of the term \"mass\". However, such usage is controversial and has fallen out of favor.\n\nIn these frameworks, two kinds of mass are defined: rest mass (invariant mass), and relativistic mass (which increases with velocity). Rest mass is the Newtonian mass as measured by an observer moving along with the object. \"Relativistic mass\" is the total quantity of energy in a body or system divided by \"c\". The two are related by the following equation:\n\nwhere formula_13 is the Lorentz factor:\n\nThe invariant mass of systems is the same for observers in all inertial frames, while the relativistic mass depends on the observer's frame of reference. In order to formulate the equations of physics such that mass values do not change between observers, it is convenient to use rest mass. The rest mass of a body is also related to its energy \"E\" and the magnitude of its momentum p by the relativistic energy-momentum equation:\n\nSo long as the system is closed with respect to mass and energy, both kinds of mass are conserved in any given frame of reference. The conservation of mass holds even as some types of particles are converted to others. Matter particles (such as atoms) may be converted to non-matter particles (such as photons of light), but this does not affect the total amount of mass or energy. Although things like heat may not be matter, all types of energy still continue to exhibit mass. Thus, mass and energy do not change into one another in relativity; rather, both are names for the same thing, and neither mass nor energy \"appear\" without the other.\n\nBoth rest and relativistic mass can be expressed as an energy by applying the well-known relationship \"E\" = \"mc\", yielding rest energy and \"relativistic energy\" (total system energy) respectively:\n\nThe \"relativistic\" mass and energy concepts are related to their \"rest\" counterparts, but they do not have the same value as their rest counterparts in systems where there is a net momentum. Because the relativistic mass is proportional to the energy, it has gradually fallen into disuse among physicists. There is disagreement over whether the concept remains useful pedagogically.\n\nIn bound systems, the binding energy must often be subtracted from the mass of the unbound system, because binding energy commonly leaves the system at the time it is bound. The mass of the system changes in this process merely because the system was not closed during the binding process, so the energy escaped. For example, the binding energy of atomic nuclei is often lost in the form of gamma rays when the nuclei are formed, leaving nuclides which have less mass than the free particles (nucleons) of which they are composed.\n\nMass–energy equivalence also holds in macroscopic systems. For example, if one takes exactly one kilogram of ice, and applies heat, the mass of the resulting melt-water will be more than a kilogram: it will include the mass from the thermal energy (latent heat) used to melt the ice; this follows from the conservation of energy. This number is small but not negligible: about 3.7 nanograms. It is given by the latent heat of melting ice (334 kJ/kg) divided by the speed of light squared (\"c\" = 9×10 m/s).\n\nIn general relativity, the equivalence principle is the equivalence of gravitational and inertial mass. At the core of this assertion is Albert Einstein's idea that the gravitational force as experienced locally while standing on a massive body (such as the Earth) is the same as the \"pseudo-force\" experienced by an observer in a non-inertial (i.e. accelerated) frame of reference.\n\nHowever, it turns out that it is impossible to find an objective general definition for the concept of invariant mass in general relativity. At the core of the problem is the non-linearity of the Einstein field equations, making it impossible to write the gravitational field energy as part of the stress–energy tensor in a way that is invariant for all observers. For a given observer, this can be achieved by the stress–energy–momentum pseudotensor.\n\nIn classical mechanics, the inert mass of a particle appears in the Euler–Lagrange equation as a parameter \"m\":\n\nAfter quantization, replacing the position vector \"x\" with a wave function, the parameter \"m\" appears in the kinetic energy operator:\n\nIn the ostensibly covariant (relativistically invariant) Dirac equation, and in natural units, this becomes:\nwhere the \"mass\" parameter \"m\" is now simply a constant associated with the quantum described by the wave function ψ.\n\nIn the Standard Model of particle physics as developed in the 1960s, this term arises from the coupling of the field ψ to an additional field Φ, the Higgs field. In the case of fermions, the Higgs mechanism results in the replacement of the term \"m\"ψ in the Lagrangian with formula_21. This shifts the explanandum of the value for the mass of each elementary particle to the value of the unknown couplings \"G\".\n\nA tachyonic field, or simply tachyon, is a quantum field with an imaginary mass. Although tachyons (particles that move faster than light) are a purely hypothetical concept not generally believed to exist, fields with imaginary mass have come to play an important role in modern physics and are discussed in popular books on physics. Under no circumstances do any excitations ever propagate faster than light in such theories – the presence or absence of a tachyonic mass has no effect whatsoever on the maximum velocity of signals (there is no violation of causality). While the \"field\" may have imaginary mass, any physical particles do not; the \"imaginary mass\" shows that the system becomes unstable, and sheds the instability by undergoing a type of phase transition called tachyon condensation (closely related to second order phase transitions) that results in symmetry breaking in current models of particle physics.\n\nThe term \"tachyon\" was coined by Gerald Feinberg in a 1967 paper, but it was soon realized that Feinberg's model in fact did not allow for superluminal speeds. Instead, the imaginary mass creates an instability in the configuration:- any configuration in which one or more field excitations are tachyonic will spontaneously decay, and the resulting configuration contains no physical tachyons. This process is known as tachyon condensation. Well known examples include the condensation of the Higgs boson in particle physics, and ferromagnetism in condensed matter physics.\n\nAlthough the notion of a tachyonic imaginary mass might seem troubling because there is no classical interpretation of an imaginary mass, the mass is not quantized. Rather, the scalar field is; even for tachyonic quantum fields, the field operators at spacelike separated points still commute (or anticommute), thus preserving causality. Therefore, information still does not propagate faster than light, and solutions grow exponentially, but not superluminally (there is no violation of causality). Tachyon condensation drives a physical system that has reached a local limit and might naively be expected to produce physical tachyons, to an alternate stable state where no physical tachyons exist. Once the tachyonic field reaches the minimum of the potential, its quanta are not tachyons any more but rather are ordinary particles with a positive mass-squared.\n\nThis is a special case of the general rule, where unstable massive particles are formally described as having a complex mass, with the real part being their mass in the usual sense, and the imaginary part being the decay rate in natural units. However, in quantum field theory, a particle (a \"one-particle state\") is roughly defined as a state which is constant over time; i.e., an eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian. An unstable particle is a state which is only approximately constant over time; If it exists long enough to be measured, it can be formally described as having a complex mass, with the real part of the mass greater than its imaginary part. If both parts are of the same magnitude, this is interpreted as a resonance appearing in a scattering process rather than a particle, as it is considered not to exist long enough to be measured independently of the scattering process. In the case of a tachyon the real part of the mass is zero, and hence no concept of a particle can be attributed to it.\n\nIn a Lorentz invariant theory, the same formulas that apply to ordinary slower-than-light particles (sometimes called \"bradyons\" in discussions of tachyons) must also apply to tachyons. In particular the energy–momentum relation:\n(where p is the relativistic momentum of the bradyon and m is its rest mass) should still apply, along with the formula for the total energy of a particle:\nThis equation shows that the total energy of a particle (bradyon or tachyon) contains a contribution from its rest mass (the \"rest mass–energy\") and a contribution from its motion, the kinetic energy.\nWhen \"v\" is larger than \"c\", the denominator in the equation for the energy is \"imaginary\", as the value under the radical is negative. Because the total energy must be real, the numerator must \"also\" be imaginary: i.e. the rest mass m must be imaginary, as a pure imaginary number divided by another pure imaginary number is a real number.\n\nThe negative mass exists in the model to describe dark energy (phantom energy) and radiation in negative-index metamaterial in a unified way. In this way, the negative mass is associated with negative momentum, negative pressure, negative kinetic energy and FTL (faster-than-light).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37929156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37929156", "title": "Mike Plant", "text": "Mike Plant\n\nMike Plant (November 21, 1950 – 1992) was an American single-handed yachtsman. He competed in the BOC Challenge and the Vendée Globe, a single-handed non-stop race around the world. After five years of single-handed sailing, he logged over 100,000 miles at sea and set the record for the fastest solo circumnavigation by an American, with a time of 135 days. In 1992, Plant was preparing to compete in his second Vendée Globe and fourth single-handed circumnavigation aboard \"Coyote\", a powerful Open 60 sloop, and was lost at sea while delivering \"Coyote\" from New York Harbor to Les Sables-d'Olonne, France for the starting line. \"Coyote\" was found 32 days later, turtled, without the 8,400lbs lead bulb that should have been attached to the keel. At the time of his death, Plant was one of only five people to have completed three solo circumnavigations, joining Bertie Reed, Guy Bernardin, Jean-Luc Van Den Heede and Philippe Jeantot. On September 6, 2002, Plant was inducted into The Single-Handed Sailing Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nMike Plant was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 21, 1950, the third of Frank Plant Jr. and Mary Kennedy's five children. He spent his childhood in the Minneapolis suburb of Deephaven on the shores of Lake Minnetonka. At the age of 9, Plant began sailing X boats at Minnetonka Yacht Club, and by the age of 14, aboard \"Lucky Strike\", had twice won the Interlake Regatta, the biggest regatta in the area, in which the top five boats from each of the large lakes in Minnesota, Iowa and Wisconsin competed at the end of the summer. After many adventures in his 20s, including trekking the length of South America (12,000 miles), Plant moved to Jamestown, Rhode Island, where he would later find his passion for single-handed sailing.\n\n\nA feature length documentary film about Mike Plant's life was released worldwide in October 2018.<ref name=\"Coyote\">.\n"}
{"id": "106742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106742", "title": "Mount Kinabalu", "text": "Mount Kinabalu\n\nMount Kinabalu () is a mountain in Sabah, Malaysia. It is protected as Kinabalu Park, a World Heritage Site. Kinabalu is the highest peak in Borneo's Crocker Range and is the highest mountain in the Malay Archipelago as well as the highest mountain in Malaysia. Mount Kinabalu is also the 20th most prominent mountain in the world by topographic prominence.\n\nIn 1997, a re-survey using satellite technology established its summit (known as Low's Peak) height at above sea level, which is some less than the previously thought and hitherto published figure of .\n\nMount Kinabalu includes the Kinabalu montane alpine meadows ecoregion in the montane grasslands and shrublands biome. The mountain and its surroundings are among the most important biological sites in the world, with between 5,000 and 6,000 species of plants, 326 species of birds, and more than 100 mammalian species identified. Among this rich collection of wildlife are famous species such as the gigantic \"Rafflesia\" plants and orangutans. Mount Kinabalu has been accorded UNESCO World Heritage status.\n\nLow's Peak can be climbed by a person in good physical condition and there is no need for mountaineering equipment at any point on the main route.\n\nMount Kinabalu along with other upland areas of the Crocker Range is known worldwide for its botanical and biological species biodiversity with plants of Himalayan, Australasian, and Indomalayan origin. A recent botanical survey of the mountain estimated a staggering 5,000 to 6,000 plant species (excluding mosses and liverworts but including ferns), which is more than all of Europe and North America (excluding tropical regions of Mexico) combined. It is therefore one of the world's most important biological sites.\n\nIn 2015, a major Malaysian-Dutch study showed that the unique flora, fauna, and fungi on the mountain summit are younger than the mountain itself, and have evolved from both local and distant montane ancestors.\n\nThe flora covers the mountain in zones of different types of habitat as one climbs up, beginning with a lowland belt of fig trees and insectivorous pitcher plants. Then between is a layer of short trees such the conifer \"Dacrydium gibbsiae\" and dwarf shrubs, mosses, lichens, liverworts, and ferns. Finally many of the world's richest variety of orchids are found on the high rockier slopes.\nThese plants have high levels of endemism (i.e. species which are found only within Kinabalu Park and are not found anywhere else in the world). The orchids are the best-known example with over 800 species including some of the highly valued \"Paphiopedilum\" slipper orchids, but there are also over 600 species of ferns (more than the whole of Africa's 500 species) of which 50 are found nowhere else, and the richest collection in the world for the \"Nepenthes\" pitcher plants (five of the thirteen are found nowhere else on earth) which reach spectacular proportions (the largest-pitchered in the world being the endemic \"Nepenthes rajah\"). The parasitic \"Rafflesia\" plant, which has the largest single flower in the world, is also found in Kinabalu (particularly \"Rafflesia keithii\" whose flower grows to in diameter), though it should be noted that blooms of the flower are rare and difficult to find. Meanwhile, another \"Rafflesia\" species, \"Rafflesia tengku-adlinii\", can be found on the neighbouring Mount Trus Madi and the nearby Maliau Basin.\n\nIts incredible biodiversity in plant life is due to a combination of several unique factors: its setting in one of the richest plant regions of the world (the tropical biogeographical region known as western Malesia which comprises the island of Sumatra, the Malay Peninsula, and the island of Borneo), the fact that the mountain covers a wide climatic range from near sea level to freezing ground conditions near the summit, the jagged terrain and diversity of rocks and soils, the high levels of rainfall (averaging about a year at park HQ), and the climatic instability caused by periods of glaciation and catastrophic droughts which result in evolution and speciation. This diversity is greatest in the lowland regions (consisting of lowland dipterocarp forests, so called because the tree family Dipterocarpaceae are dominant). However, most of Kinabalu's endemic species are found in the mountain forests, particularly on ultramafic soils (i.e. soils which are low in phosphates and high in iron and metals poisonous to many plants; this high toxic content gave rise to the development of distinctive plant species found nowhere else).\n\nThe variety of plant life is also habitat for a great variety of birds and mammals. There are some 326 species of birds in Kinabalu Park, including the spectacular rhinoceros hornbill, mountain serpent-eagle, Dulit frogmouth, eyebrowed jungle flycatcher, and bare-headed laughingthrush. Twenty-four birds are mainly found on the mountain. The mountain is home to some 100 mammalian species mostly living high in the trees, including one of the four great apes, the orangutan (though sightings of these are uncommon; estimates of its numbers in the park range from 25 to 120). Other mammals include three kinds of deer, the Malayan weasel \"(Mustela nudipes)\", oriental small-clawed otter \"(Aonyx cinerea)\", and leopard cat \"(Felis bengalensis)\". Endemic mammals include the black shrew \"(Suncus ater)\" and Bornean ferret-badger \"(Melogale everetti)\".\n\nEndemic annelids number less than a dozen known species but include the Kinabalu giant red leech that preys on various earthworms, including the Kinabalu giant earthworm. In the summit zone, at least 26 endemic species of land snail exist. In 2012, a major scientific expedition, jointly organised by the Malaysian Sabah Parks and the Dutch Naturalis Biodiversity Center, performed DNA analysis of several dozen endemic flora, fauna, and fungi, to understand the evolutionary origin of the unique biodiversity of Kinabalu.\n\nThe steep mountainsides with poor soil are not suitable for farming or for the timber industry so the habitats and animal life of Kinabalu remain largely intact, with about a third of the original habitat now degraded. Kinabalu Park was established in 1964 and the nearby mountains were protected as the Crocker Range National Park in 1984. However even national park status does not guarantee full protection, as logging permits were granted on Trus Madi in 1984.\n\nMount Kinabalu is essentially a massive pluton formed from granodiorite which is intrusive into sedimentary and ultrabasic rocks, and forms the central part, or core, of the Kinabalu massif. The granodiorite is intrusive into strongly folded strata, probably of Eocene to Miocene age, and associated ultrabasic and basic igneous rocks. It was pushed up from the earth's crust as molten rock millions of years ago. In geological terms, it is a very young mountain as the granodiorite cooled and hardened only about 10 million years ago. The present landform is considered to be a mid-Pliocene peneplain, arched and deeply dissected, through which the Kinabalu granodiorite body has risen in isostatic adjustment. It is still pushing up at the rate of 5 mm per annum. During the Pleistocene Epoch of about 100,000 years ago, the massive mountain was covered by huge sheets of ice and glaciers which flowed down its slopes, scouring its surface in the process and creating the deep Low's Gully (named after Hugh Low) on its north side. Its granite composition and the glacial formative processes are readily apparent when viewing its craggy rocky peaks.\n\nBritish colonial administrator Hugh Low made the first recorded ascent of Mount Kinabalu's summit plateau in March 1851. Low did not scale the mountain's highest peak, however, considering it \"inaccessible to any but winged animals\". In April and July 1858, Low was accompanied on two further ascents by Spenser St. John, the British Consul in Brunei. The highest point of Mount Kinabalu was finally reached in 1888 by zoologist John Whitehead. British botanist Lilian Gibbs became the first woman and the first botanist to summit Mount Kinabalu in February 1910.\n\nBotanist E. J. H. Corner led two important expeditions of the Royal Society of Great Britain to the mountain in 1961 and 1964. Kinabalu National Park was established in 1964. The park was designated a natural World Heritage Site in 2000.\n\nOn 5 June 2015 at 07:15 MST, the area around Mount Kinabalu was damaged by an earthquake. Eighteen people, including hikers and mountain guides, were killed by the earthquake and a massive landslide that followed it. Ranau and many parts of Sabah West Coast were affected and Donkey Ear's Peak was heavily damaged.\n\nSix days before the earthquake, around ten western tourists (comprising six men and four women from Canada, Germany, Netherlands and the United Kingdom) \"stripped and urinated at the mountain (which locals believe has angered the spirit at the sacred place)\". The tourists also allegedly shouted vulgarities when they were told to desist by their mountain guide, but this was later dismissed by the judge in their trial. This provoked outrage among certain Sabahans, who want all of the alleged offenders charged in native court and forced to pay the \"sogit\", a type of compensation, given in the form of money or livestock, to appease the aggrieved party according to local Kadazan-Dusun customs. It is imposed on wrongdoers for the purpose of appeasing \"the aggrieved\", thus placating the community. However, as most of the detained tourists have been released from Malaysia's prison and escaping native court, the local villagers had to perform their own rituals. Following the incident, some of the tourists and their families have expressed their apologies to all involved parties, and the government of the United Kingdom began to review its travel advice for Malaysia.\n\nSabah Parks grants a summit-climbing permit only to climbers who stay at mountain huts. Due to the limited number of beds at the mountain huts, only 130 persons are allowed to climb Mount Kinabalu per day. There are only 3 types of mountain hut owned by either Sutera Sanctuary Lodges, Mountain Torq or Sabah Parks. Accommodation package can be purchased directly from them. (The hut owned by Sabah Parks is restricted only to Malaysians.)\n\nClimbers must be accompanied by accredited guides at all times due to national park regulations. There are two main starting points for the climb: the Timpohon Gate (located 5.5 km from Kinabalu Park Headquarters, at an altitude of ), and the Mesilau Nature Resort. The latter starting point is slightly higher in elevation, but crosses a ridge, adding about two kilometres to the ascent and making the total elevation gain slightly higher. The Mesilau Trail is no longer accessible due to earthquake in 2015. The two trails meet about two kilometres before Laban Rata.\n\nAccommodation is available inside the park or outside near the headquarters. Sabah Parks has privatised Mount Kinabalu activities to an organisation called Sutera Sanctuary Lodges. The mountain may be climbed on a single day trip, or hikers may (usually) stay one night at Laban Rata Resthouse at to complete the climb in 2 days, finishing the ascent and descending on the second day. The majority of climbers begin the ascent on day one of a two-day hike from Timpohon gate at , reaching this location either by minibus or by walking, and then walk to Laban Rata. Most people accomplish this part of the climb in 3 to 6 hours. Since there are no roads, the supplies for the Laban Rata Resthouse are carried by porters, who sometimes bring more than 35 kilograms of supplies on their backs. Hot food and beverages are available at Laban Rata. Most rooms have no hot water in the bathrooms and whilst the dining area is heated, most rooms are not. The last , from the Laban Rata Resthouse at to Low's Peak (summit) at , takes between 2 and 4 hours. The last part of the climb is on bare granite rock.\n\nGiven the high altitude, some people may suffer from altitude sickness although staying overnight at the lodges before the climb and climbing at a lower rate of ascent may reduce the likelihood of this happening.\n\nLow's Gully (named after Hugh Low who first looked down into it in 1851) is a deep gorge carved out by glaciation on the north side of Mount Kinabalu, that is one of the least explored and most inhospitable places on earth. In March 1994 two British Army officers were severely criticised after leading a party of 7 British and 3 Hong Kong soldiers in an attempt to abseil and climb down into the gully that required extensive rescue efforts from both the RAF and the Malaysian army. The party were not equipped with radios and the 2 officers and 3 Hong Kong soldiers were trapped for 16 days and did not eat for five days before being rescued when stretchers were lowered by helicopter. The breakaway party of five completed the first descent of the gully in three days. A book about the 31-day fight for survival entitled \"Descent Into Chaos\" was published in 1996 and a film drama \"The Place of the Dead\" was released in 1997. The first successful complete descent of Low's Gully was achieved by a 27 strong joint Malaysian-British team led by mountaineer and former British Army officer Pat Gunson in 1998.\n\nThere are few stories that led to the main beliefs in the origin of the mountain's name. The first derivation of the word Kinabalu is extracted from the short form for the Kadazan-Dusun word 'Aki Nabalu', meaning \"the revered place of the dead\". Meanwhile, it can also be believed that the name \"Kinabalu\" comes from the Dusun phrase \"tina balu\" which means \"a widow mother\". So, assumably, \"tina balu\" is the spirit of the mount itself. Another consideration is Kinabalu is formed by two words of Dusun \"ki\" (have/has) and \"nabalu\" (mountain), so \"ki-nabalu\" means \"have mountain\". It is common by Dusun people named place based on what the place have. For example, there is a place named \"kiwaig\" that literally mean \"have water\". Considering the fact that the word \"Kinabalu\" in many Dusun dialects literally means 'mountain', means that this explanation is the most likely.\n\nA popular story told to Western and Chinese tourists states that the name \"Kinabalu\" actually means \"Cina Balu\" (which would fully mean \"A Chinese Widow\"). Due to the lingual influence among the Kadazan Dusun of Sabah, the pronunciation for the word \"cina\" (chee-na) was changed to \"Kina\" (kee-na). Nobody actually knows when or where this story came from but it seems to have originated within the last 30 years.\n\nIt was told that a Chinese prince, was cast away to Borneo when his ship sank in the middle of the South China Sea. He was subsequently rescued by the natives from a nearby village. As he recovered, he was slowly accepted as one of the people of the village. Eventually, he fell in love with a local woman, and married her. Years went by, and he started to feel homesick. So he asked permission from his newly found family to go back to China to visit his parents (the Emperor and Empress of China). To his wife, he promised that as soon as he was done with his family duties in China, he would come back to Borneo to take her and their children back to China. When he made his return to China, he was given a grand welcome by his family. However, to his dismay, his parents disagreed with him about taking his Bornean wife back to China. Worse, they told him that he was already betrothed to a princess of a neighbouring kingdom. Having no choice (due to high respect towards his parents), he obeyed with a heavy heart.\n\nMeanwhile, back in Borneo, his wife grew more and more anxious. Eventually, she decided that she would wait for her husband's ship. However, since the village was situated far away from the coast, she couldn't afford to come to the shore and wait for him daily. Instead she decided to climb to the top of the highest mountain near her village, so that she could have a better view of the ships sailing in the South China Sea. Thus, she was then seen climbing up the mountain at every sunrise, returning only at night to attend to her growing children. Eventually her efforts took their toll. She fell ill, and died at the top of the cold mountain while waiting for her husband. The spirit of the mountain, having observed her for years, was extremely touched by her loyalty towards her husband. Out of admiration for this woman, the spirit of the mountain turned her into a stone. Her face was made to face the South China Sea, so that she could wait forever for her dear husband's return. The people in her hometown who heard about this were also gravely touched by this. Thus, they decided to name the mountain \"Kinabalu\" in remembrance of her. To them, the mountain is a symbol of the everlasting love and loyalty that should be taken as a good example by women.\n\nLocal legend among the people of Ranau, a district in Sabah, has it that St. John's Peak was the stone which her body was turned into.\n\nThe temperature of Mount Kinabalu usually stands from −4 °C to 8 °C in December to January, and 3 °C to 12 °C in June to September. Due to the coldness of the mountain in December to January, sometimes frost, ice or even snow appears at the summit of Mount Kinabalu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2431323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431323", "title": "Mudflow", "text": "Mudflow\n\nA mudflow or mud flow is a form of mass wasting involving \"very rapid to extremely rapid surging flow\" of debris that has become partially or fully liquified by the addition of significant amounts of water to the source material.\n\nMudflows contain a significant proportion of clay, which makes them more fluid than debris flows; thus, they are able to travel farther and across lower slope angles. Both types are generally mixtures of various kinds of materials of different sizes, which are typically sorted by size upon deposition.\n\nMudflows are often called \"mudslides\", a term applied indiscriminately by the mass media to a variety of mass wasting events. Mudflows often start as slides, becoming flows as water is entrained along the flow path; such events are often called \"flow slides\".\n\nOther types of mudflows include lahars (involving fine-grained pyroclastic deposits on the flanks of volcanoes) and jökulhlaups (outbursts from under glaciers or icecaps).\n\nA statutory definition of \"flood-related mudslide\" appears in the United States' National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, codified at 42 USC Sections 4001 and following.\n\n Heavy rainfall, snowmelt, or high levels of ground water flowing through cracked bedrock may trigger a movement of soil or sediments. Floods and debris flows may also occur when strong rains on hill or mountain slopes cause extensive erosion and/or what is known as \"channel scour\". The 2006 Sidoarjo mud flow may have been caused by rogue drilling. \n\nSome broad mudflows are rather viscous and therefore slow; others begin very quickly and continue like an avalanche. If large enough, they can devastate villages and countrysides. They are composed of at least 50% silt and clay-sized materials and up to 30% water. Mudflows are common even in the hills around Los Angeles, California, where they have destroyed many homes built on hillsides without sufficient support after fires destroy vegetation holding the land.\n\nThe point where a muddy material begins to flow depends on its grain size and the water content. Fine grainy material or soil has a smaller friction angle than a coarse sediment or a debris flow, but falling rock pieces can trigger a material flow, too.\n\nOn December 14, 1999 in Vargas, Venezuela, a mudflow known as The Vargas tragedy significantly altered more than 60 kilometers (37 mi) of the coastline. It was triggered by heavy rainfall and caused estimated damages of US$1.79 to US$3.5 billion, killed between 10,000 and 30,000 people, forced 85,000 people to evacuate, and led to the complete collapse of the state's infrastructure.\n\n\"Landslide\" is a more general term than mudflow. It refers to the gravity-driven failure and subsequent movement downslope of any types of surface movement of soil, rock, or other debris. The term incorporates earth slides, rock falls, debris flows, and mudslides, amongst other categories of hillslope mass movements. They do not have to be as fluid as a mudflow.\n\nMudflows can be caused by unusually heavy rains or a sudden thaw. They consist mainly of mud and water plus fragments of rock and other debris, so they often behave like floods. They can move houses off their foundations or bury a place within minutes because of incredibly strong currents.\n\nWhen a mudflow occurs it is given four named areas, the 'main scarp', in bigger mudflows the 'upper and lower shelves' and the 'toe'. The main scarp will be the original area of incidence, the toe is the last affected area(s). The upper and lower shelves are located wherever there is a large dip (due to mountain or natural drop) in the mudflow's path. A mudflow can have many shelves.\n\nThe world's largest historic landslide (in terms of volume) occurred during the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, a volcano in the Cascade Mountain Range in the State of Washington, USA. The volume of material displaced was . Directly in the path of the huge mudflow was Spirit Lake. Normally a chilly , the lahar instantly raised the temperature to near . Today the bottom of Spirit Lake is above the original surface, and it has two and a half times more surface area than it did before the eruption.\n\nThe world's largest known prehistoric terrestrial landslide took place in southwestern Iran, and is named the Saidmarreh landslide. The landslide was located on the Kabir Kuh anticline at 33.0°N, 47.65°E. The landslide had a volume of about , a depth of , a travel distance of , and a width of . This means that about 50 billion tons of rock moved in this single event.\n\nThe largest known of all prehistoric landslides was an enormous submarine landslide that disintegrated 60,000 years ago and produced the longest flow of sand and mud yet documented on Earth. The massive submarine flow travelled – the distance from London to Rome.\n\nBy volume, the largest submarine landslide (the Agulhas slide off South Africa) occurred approximately 2.6 million years ago. The volume of the slide was .\n\nThe area most generally recognized as being at risk of a dangerous mudflow are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32016204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32016204", "title": "Normapolles", "text": "Normapolles\n\nNormapolles is an extinct morphogenus of Late Cretaceous (99.6–65.5 Ma) pollen grain. North America's southern animal biome approximately correspond with the \"Normapolles\" palynofloral province.\n"}
{"id": "12662990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12662990", "title": "Oblivantsy", "text": "Oblivantsy\n\nOblivantsy (from ) is a word still used by Old Believers for those who practise the baptism by sprinkling water, as in Catholic Church, rather than by submerging the whole body three times, as the Old Believers insist on. The Russian Orthodox Church practises both ways of baptizing and, subsequently, recognizes baptism both by sprinkling and submerging.\n\n"}
{"id": "41660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41660", "title": "Resonance", "text": "Resonance\n\nIn mechanical systems, resonance is a phenomenon that occurs when the frequency at which a force is periodically applied is equal or nearly equal to one of the natural frequencies of the system on which it acts. This causes the system to oscillate with larger amplitude than when the force is applied at other frequencies.\n\nFrequencies at which the response amplitude is a relative maximum are known as resonant frequencies or resonance frequencies of the system. Near resonant frequencies, small periodic forces have the ability to produce large amplitude oscillations, due to the storage of vibrational energy.\n\nIn other systems, such as electrical or optical, phenomena occur which are described as resonance but depend on interaction between different aspects of the system, not on an external driver.\n\nFor example, electrical resonance occurs in a circuit with capacitors and inductors because the collapsing magnetic field of the inductor generates an electric current in its windings that charges the capacitor, and then the discharging capacitor provides an electric current that builds the magnetic field in the inductor. Once the circuit is charged, the oscillation is self-sustaining, and there is no external periodic driving action. This is analogous to a mechanical pendulum, where mechanical energy is converted back and forth between kinetic and potential, and both systems are forms of simple harmonic oscillators.\n\nIn optical cavities, light confined in the cavity reflects back and forth multiple times. This produces standing waves, and only certain patterns and frequencies of radiation are sustained, due to the effects of interference, while the others are suppressed by destructive interference. Once the light enters the cavity, the oscillation is self-sustaining, and there is no external periodic driving action.\n\nSome behavior is mistaken for resonance but instead is a form of self-oscillation, such as aeroelastic flutter, speed wobble, or Hunting oscillation. In these cases, the external energy source does not oscillate, but the components of the system interact with each other in a periodic fashion.\n\nResonance occurs when a system is able to store and easily transfer energy between two or more different storage modes (such as kinetic energy and potential energy in the case of a simple pendulum). However, there are some losses from cycle to cycle, called damping. When damping is small, the resonant frequency is approximately equal to the natural frequency of the system, which is a frequency of unforced vibrations. Some systems have multiple, distinct, resonant frequencies.\n\nResonance phenomena occur with all types of vibrations or waves: there is mechanical resonance, acoustic resonance, electromagnetic resonance, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), electron spin resonance (ESR) and resonance of quantum wave functions. Resonant systems can be used to generate vibrations of a specific frequency (e.g., musical instruments), or pick out specific frequencies from a complex vibration containing many frequencies (e.g., filters).\n\nThe term \"resonance\" (from Latin \"resonantia\", 'echo', from \"resonare\", 'resound') originates from the field of acoustics, particularly observed in musical instruments, e.g., when strings started to vibrate and to produce sound without direct excitation by the player.\n\nA familiar example is a playground swing, which acts as a pendulum. Pushing a person in a swing in time with the natural interval of the swing (its resonant frequency) makes the swing go higher and higher (maximum amplitude), while attempts to push the swing at a faster or slower tempo produce smaller arcs. This is because the energy the swing absorbs is maximized when the pushes match the swing's natural oscillations.\n\nResonance occurs widely in nature, and is exploited in many manmade devices. It is the mechanism by which virtually all sinusoidal waves and vibrations are generated. Many sounds we hear, such as when hard objects of metal, glass, or wood are struck, are caused by brief resonant vibrations in the object. Light and other short wavelength electromagnetic radiation is produced by resonance on an atomic scale, such as electrons in atoms. Other examples of resonance:\n\n\nThe dramatically visible, rhythmic twisting that resulted in the 1940 collapse of \"Galloping Gertie\", the original Tacoma Narrows Bridge, is mistakenly characterized as an example of resonance phenomenon in certain textbooks. The catastrophic vibrations that destroyed the bridge were not due to simple mechanical resonance, but to a more complicated interaction between the bridge and the winds passing through it—a phenomenon known as aeroelastic flutter, which is a kind of \"self-sustaining vibration\" as referred to in the nonlinear theory of vibrations. Robert H. Scanlan, father of bridge aerodynamics, has written an article about this misunderstanding.\n\nThe rocket engines for the International Space Station (ISS) are controlled by an autopilot. Ordinarily, uploaded parameters for controlling the engine control system for the Zvezda module make the rocket engines boost the International Space Station to a higher orbit. The rocket engines are hinge-mounted, and ordinarily the crew doesn't notice the operation. On January 14, 2009, however, the uploaded parameters made the autopilot swing the rocket engines in larger and larger oscillations, at a frequency of 0.5 Hz. These oscillations were captured on video, and lasted for 142 seconds.\n\nMechanical resonance is the tendency of a mechanical system to absorb more energy when the frequency of its oscillations matches the system's natural frequency of vibration than it does at other frequencies. It may cause violent swaying motions and even catastrophic failure in improperly constructed structures including bridges, buildings, trains, and aircraft. When designing objects, engineers must ensure the mechanical resonance frequencies of the component parts do not match driving vibrational frequencies of motors or other oscillating parts, a phenomenon known as resonance disaster.\n\nAvoiding resonance disasters is a major concern in every building, tower, and bridge construction project. As a countermeasure, shock mounts can be installed to absorb resonant frequencies and thus dissipate the absorbed energy. The Taipei 101 building relies on a —a tuned mass damper—to cancel resonance. Furthermore, the structure is designed to resonate at a frequency that does not typically occur. Buildings in seismic zones are often constructed to take into account the oscillating frequencies of expected ground motion. In addition, engineers designing objects having engines must ensure that the mechanical resonant frequencies of the component parts do not match driving vibrational frequencies of the motors or other strongly oscillating parts.\n\nClocks keep time by mechanical resonance in a balance wheel, pendulum, or quartz crystal.\n\nThe cadence of runners has been hypothesized to be energetically favorable due to resonance between the elastic energy stored in the lower limb and the mass of the runner.\n\nAcoustic resonance is a branch of mechanical resonance that is concerned with the mechanical vibrations across the frequency range of human hearing, in other words sound. For humans, hearing is normally limited to frequencies between about 20 Hz and 20,000 Hz (20 kHz), Many objects and materials act as resonators with resonant frequencies within this range, and when struck vibrate mechanically, pushing on the surrounding air to create sound waves. This is the source of many percussive sounds we hear. \n\nAcoustic resonance is an important consideration for instrument builders, as most acoustic instruments use resonators, such as the strings and body of a violin, the length of tube in a flute, and the shape of, and tension on, a drum membrane.\n\nLike mechanical resonance, acoustic resonance can result in catastrophic failure of the object at resonance. The classic example of this is breaking a wine glass with sound at the precise resonant frequency of the glass, although this is difficult in practice.\n\nElectrical resonance occurs in an electric circuit at a particular \"resonant frequency\" when the impedance of the circuit is at a minimum in a series circuit or at maximum in a parallel circuit (or when the transfer function is at a maximum). Resonance in circuits are used for both transmitting and receiving wireless communications such as television, cell phones and radio.\n\nAn optical cavity, also called an \"optical resonator\", is an arrangement of mirrors that forms a standing wave cavity resonator for light waves. Optical cavities are a major component of lasers, surrounding the gain medium and providing feedback of the laser light. They are also used in optical parametric oscillators and some interferometers. Light confined in the cavity reflects multiple times producing standing waves for certain resonant frequencies. The standing wave patterns produced are called \"modes\". Longitudinal modes differ only in frequency while transverse modes differ for different frequencies and have different intensity patterns across the cross-section of the beam. Ring resonators and whispering galleries are examples of optical resonators that do not form standing waves.\n\nDifferent resonator types are distinguished by the focal lengths of the two mirrors and the distance between them; flat mirrors are not often used because of the difficulty of aligning them precisely. The geometry (resonator type) must be chosen so the beam remains stable, i.e., the beam size does not continue to grow with each reflection. Resonator types are also designed to meet other criteria such as minimum beam waist or having no focal point (and therefore intense light at that point) inside the cavity.\n\nOptical cavities are designed to have a very large \"Q\" factor. A beam reflects a large number of times with little attenuation—therefore the frequency line width of the beam is small compared to the frequency of the laser.\n\nAdditional optical resonances are guided-mode resonances and surface plasmon resonance, which result in anomalous reflection and high evanescent fields at resonance. In this case, the resonant modes are guided modes of a waveguide or surface plasmon modes of a dielectric-metallic interface. These modes are usually excited by a subwavelength grating.\n\nIn celestial mechanics, an orbital resonance occurs when two orbiting bodies exert a regular, periodic gravitational influence on each other, usually due to their orbital periods being related by a ratio of two small integers. Orbital resonances greatly enhance the mutual gravitational influence of the bodies. In most cases, this results in an \"unstable\" interaction, in which the bodies exchange momentum and shift orbits until the resonance no longer exists. Under some circumstances, a resonant system can be stable and self-correcting, so that the bodies remain in resonance. Examples are the 1:2:4 resonance of Jupiter's moons Ganymede, Europa, and Io, and the 2:3 resonance between Pluto and Neptune. Unstable resonances with Saturn's inner moons give rise to gaps in the rings of Saturn. The special case of 1:1 resonance (between bodies with similar orbital radii) causes large Solar System bodies to clear the neighborhood around their orbits by ejecting nearly everything else around them; this effect is used in the current definition of a planet.\n\nNuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is the name given to a physical resonance phenomenon involving the observation of specific quantum mechanical magnetic properties of an atomic nucleus in the presence of an applied, external magnetic field. Many scientific techniques exploit NMR phenomena to study molecular physics, crystals, and non-crystalline materials through NMR spectroscopy. NMR is also routinely used in advanced medical imaging techniques, such as in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).\n\nAll nuclei containing odd numbers of nucleons have an intrinsic magnetic moment and angular momentum. A key feature of NMR is that the resonant frequency of a particular substance is directly proportional to the strength of the applied magnetic field. It is this feature that is exploited in imaging techniques; if a sample is placed in a non-uniform magnetic field then the resonant frequencies of the sample's nuclei depend on where in the field they are located. Therefore, the particle can be located quite precisely by its resonant frequency.\n\nElectron paramagnetic resonance, otherwise known as \"Electron Spin Resonance\" (ESR) is a spectroscopic technique similar to NMR, but uses unpaired electrons instead. Materials for which this can be applied are much more limited since the material needs to both have an unpaired spin and be paramagnetic.\n\nThe Mössbauer effect is the resonant and recoil-free emission and absorption of gamma ray photons by atoms bound in a solid form.\n\nResonance in particle physics appears in similar circumstances to classical physics at the level of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory. However, they can also be thought of as unstable particles, with the formula above valid if \"Γ\" is the decay rate and \"Ω\" replaced by the particle's mass \"M\". In that case, the formula comes from the particle's propagator, with its mass replaced by the complex number \"M\" + \"iΓ\". The formula is further related to the particle's decay rate by the optical theorem.\n\nThe exact response of a resonance, especially for frequencies far from the resonant frequency, depends on the details of the physical system, and is usually not exactly symmetric about the resonant frequency, as illustrated for the simple harmonic oscillator above.\nFor a lightly damped linear oscillator with a resonance frequency \"Ω\", the \"intensity\" of oscillations \"I\" when the system is driven with a driving frequency \"ω\" is typically approximated by a formula that is symmetric about the resonance frequency:\n\nWhere the susceptibility formula_2 links the amplitude of the oscillator to the driving force in frequency space:\n\nformula_3\nThe intensity is defined as the square of the amplitude of the oscillations. This is a Lorentzian function, or Cauchy distribution, and this response is found in many physical situations involving resonant systems. \"Γ\" is a parameter dependent on the damping of the oscillator, and is known as the \"linewidth\" of the resonance. Heavily damped oscillators tend to have broad linewidths, and respond to a wider range of driving frequencies around the resonant frequency. The linewidth is inversely proportional to the \"Q\" factor, which is a measure of the sharpness of the resonance.\n\nIn radio engineering and electronics engineering, this approximate symmetric response is known as the \"universal resonance curve\", a concept introduced by Frederick E. Terman in 1932 to simplify the approximate analysis of radio circuits with a range of center frequencies and \"Q\" values.\n\nA physical system can have as many resonant frequencies as it has degrees of freedom; each degree of freedom can vibrate as a harmonic oscillator. Systems with one degree of freedom, such as a mass on a spring, pendulums, balance wheels, and LC tuned circuits have one resonant frequency. Systems with two degrees of freedom, such as coupled pendulums and resonant transformers can have two resonant frequencies. As the number of coupled harmonic oscillators grows, the time it takes to transfer energy from one to the next becomes significant. The vibrations in them begin to travel through the coupled harmonic oscillators in waves, from one oscillator to the next.\n\nExtended objects that can experience resonance due to vibrations inside them are called resonators, such as organ pipes, vibrating strings, quartz crystals, microwave and laser cavities. Since these can be viewed as being made of millions of coupled moving parts (such as atoms), they can have millions of resonant frequencies. The vibrations inside them travel as waves, at an approximately constant velocity, bouncing back and forth between the sides of the resonator. If the distance between the sides is \"d\", the length of a roundtrip is 2\"d\". To cause resonance, the phase of a sinusoidal wave after a roundtrip must be equal to the initial phase, so the waves reinforce the oscillation. So the condition for resonance in a resonator is that the roundtrip distance, 2\"d\", be equal to an integer number of wavelengths \"λ\" of the wave:\n\nIf the velocity of a wave is \"v\", the frequency is \"f\" =  so the resonant frequencies are:\n\nSo the resonant frequencies of resonators, called normal modes, are equally spaced multiples of a lowest frequency called the fundamental frequency. The multiples are often called overtones. There may be several such series of resonant frequencies, corresponding to different modes of oscillation.\n\nThe \"Q\" factor or \"quality factor\" is a dimensionless parameter that describes how under-damped an oscillator or resonator is, or equivalently, characterizes a resonator's bandwidth relative to its center frequency.\nHigher \"Q\" indicates a lower rate of energy loss relative to the stored energy of the oscillator, i.e., the oscillations die out more slowly. A pendulum suspended from a high-quality bearing, oscillating in air, has a high \"Q\", while a pendulum immersed in oil has a low \"Q\". To sustain a system in resonance in constant amplitude by providing power externally, the energy provided in each cycle must be less than the energy stored in the system (i.e., the sum of the potential and kinetic) by a factor of . Oscillators with high-quality factors have low damping, which tends to make them ring longer.\n\nSinusoidally driven resonators having higher Q factors resonate with greater amplitudes (at the resonant frequency) but have a smaller range of frequencies around the frequency at which they resonate. The range of frequencies at which the oscillator resonates is called the bandwidth. Thus, a high-\"Q\" tuned circuit in a radio receiver would be more difficult to tune, but would have greater selectivity, it would do a better job of filtering out signals from other stations that lie nearby on the spectrum. High Q oscillators operate over a smaller range of frequencies and are more stable. (See oscillator phase noise.)\n\nThe quality factor of oscillators varies substantially from system to system. Systems for which damping is important (such as dampers keeping a door from slamming shut) have \"Q\" = . Clocks, lasers, and other systems that need either strong resonance or high frequency stability need high-quality factors. Tuning forks have quality factors around \"Q\" = 1000. The quality factor of atomic clocks and some high-\"Q\" lasers can reach as high as 10 and higher.\n\nThere are many alternate quantities used by physicists and engineers to describe how damped an oscillator is that are closely related to its quality factor. Important examples include: the damping ratio, relative bandwidth, linewidth, and bandwidth measured in octaves.\n\n"}
{"id": "15451232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15451232", "title": "Richard Garrigues", "text": "Richard Garrigues\n\nRichard Garrigues is a naturalist, writer and videographer, originally from suburban New Jersey, who has lived in Costa Rica since 1981, where he leads birding and natural history tours. Since April 2000, he has been posting the \"Gone Birding Newsletter\" on line. In June 2005 he began also to study the birds of northwestern Ecuador. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "582115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582115", "title": "Sinharaja Forest Reserve", "text": "Sinharaja Forest Reserve\n\nSinharaja Forest Reserve is a national park and a biodiversity hotspot in Sri Lanka. It is of international significance and has been designated a Biosphere Reserve and World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\n\nAccording to International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Sinharaja is the country's last viable area of primary tropical rainforest. More than 60% of the trees are endemic and many of them are considered rare.\n\nThe hilly virgin rainforest, part of the Sri Lanka lowland rain forests ecoregion, was saved from the worst of commercial logging by its inaccessibility, and was designated a World Biosphere Reserve in 1978 and a World Heritage Site in 1988. The reserve's name translates as \"Lion Kingdom\".\n\nThe reserve is only from east to west, and a maximum of from north to south, but it is a treasure trove of endemic species, including trees, insects, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.\n\nBecause of the dense vegetation, wildlife is not as easily seen as at dry-zone national parks such as Yala. There are about 3 elephants, and 15 or so leopards. The most common larger mammal is the endemic purple-faced langur.\n\nBirds tend to move in mixed feeding flocks, invariably led by the fearless Sri Lanka Crested Drongo and the noisy orange-billed babbler. Of Sri Lanka's 26 endemic birds, the 20 rainforest species all occur here, including the elusive red-faced malkoha, green-billed coucal and Sri Lanka blue magpie.\n\nReptiles include the endemic green pit viper and hump-nosed vipers, and there are a large variety of amphibians, especially tree frogs. Invertebrates include the endemic common birdwing, butterfly and leeches.\n\nThe reserve is well-integrated with the local population that are living in some dozens of villages dotted along the border. The villages are more in number along the southern border whilst the presence of some large estates along the northern border has resulted in only a few villages there. The locals collect herbal medicine, edible fruits, nuts, mushrooms, other non-timber forest products including bees honey and a sugary sap collected from a local palm species of the genus Caryota. The sap is converted into jaggery, a local brew and vinegar. Local people walk in the forest to collect above items when they are not busy with their other agricultural pursuits. In addition, the crystal-clear water coming from dozens of streams is the main water source for all people living around the reserve. For generations, local people trekked through the forest from south to north to make their annual pilgrimage to the Adams Peak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12635064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12635064", "title": "Tamaulipan matorral", "text": "Tamaulipan matorral\n\nThe Tamaulipan matorral is an ecoregion in the deserts and xeric shrublands biome on the eastern slopes of the Sierra Madre Oriental range in northeastern Mexico. It is a transitional ecoregion between the Tamaulipan mezquital and the Sierra Madre Oriental pine-oak forests to the west and the Veracruz moist forests to the south. It is a desert shrubland where the flora mainly consists of woody shrubs, small trees, cacti, and succulents. Piedmont scrub occurs in shallow hollows and montane chaparral occurs above about . There are a number of resident bird species and the mammals include Mexican prairie dog, Saussure's shrew, yellow-faced pocket gopher, Allen's squirrel, collared peccary and coyote. \n\nThe Tamaulipan matorral extends along the eastern slopes of the Sierra Madre Oriental range in northeastern Mexico, extending from central Tamaulipas state across central Nuevo León. The ecoregion covers an area of . The humid Veracruz moist forests lie to the southeast, on the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Tamaulipas and Veracruz states; the Tamaulipan mezquital lies in the Rio Grande lowlands to the east and northeast. The Sierra Madre Oriental pine-oak forests occupy higher elevations of the Sierra Madre Oriental range to the west.\n\nThe ecoregion is predominantly a desert shrubland made up of woody shrubs, small trees, cacti, and succulents. Dominant plant species include \"Cylindropuntia leptocaulis\", \"Opuntia engelmannii\" var. \"lindheimeri\", \"Prosopis juliflora\", \"P. laevigata\", \"Yucca treculeana\", \"Salvia ballotiflora\", \"Jatropha dioica\", cenizo (\"Leucophyllum frutescens\"), \"Mammillaria heyderi hemisphaerica\", tepeguaje (\"Leucaena pulverulenta\") and \"Mimosa aculeaticarpa\" var. \"biuncifera\". Piedmont scrub is found in shallow soils derived from sedimentary rocks at the base of the Sierra Madre (below ) and receives of annual rainfall. It is composed of relatively short plants ( in height) such as \"Helietta parvifolia\", \"Neopringlea integrifolia\" and \"Acacia\" spp. Montane chaparral is a distinct plant community found above in the Sierra Madre Oriental, composed of oaks (\"Quercus\" spp.), \"Arbutus\", Yucca, \"Cercocarpus\", and \"Bauhinia\".\n\nMammals present in this ecoregion include the Mexican prairie dog (\"Cynomys mexicanus\"), Saussure's shrew (\"Sorex saussurei\"), yellow-faced pocket gopher (\"Pappogeomys castanops\"), Allen's squirrel (\"Sciurus alleni\"), collared peccary (\"Pecari tajacu\") and coyote (\"Canis latrans\"). Birds such as the burrowing owl (\"Athene cunicularia\"), hooded oriole (\"Icterus cucullates\"), eastern meadowlark (\"Sturnella magna\"), long-billed thrasher (\"Toxostoma longirostre\"), hooded yellowthroat (\"Geothlypis nelsoni\"), blue bunting (\"Cyanocompsa parellina\") and olive sparrow (\"Arremonops rufivirgatus\") are resident.\n"}
{"id": "621945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621945", "title": "Titian Peale", "text": "Titian Peale\n\nTitian Ramsay Peale (November 17, 1799 – March 13, 1885) was an American artist, naturalist, and explorer. He was a noted scientific illustrator whose paintings and drawings of wildlife were known for their beauty and accuracy. He participated as a naturalist in several scientific surveys, in particular he accompanied Stephen Harriman Long in 1819 to explore the Rocky Mountains and later served on the United States Exploring Expedition (1838-1842).\n\nPeale was born on November 17, 1799 in Philadelphia, the youngest son of noted artist and naturalist, Charles Willson Peale. He was first exposed to the study of natural history while assisting his father on his many excursions in search of specimens for the Peale Museum. The family moved to Germantown, Pennsylvania, outside of Philadelphia, where he began collecting and drawing butterflies and other insects. Although some of his butterfly and moth illustrations were ultimately published, the majority remained unpublished until recently. Like his older brothers Raphaelle, Rembrandt, and Rubens Peale, Titian helped his father in the preservation of the museum's specimens for display, which included contributions from George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and the Lewis and Clark Expedition.\n\nHis drawings were published in Thomas Say's \"American Entomology\" as early as 1816, and he was soon after elected to the Academy of Natural Sciences. \n\nPeale took part in the 1817 expedition of the Academy of Natural Sciences to Florida and Georgia, together with Thomas Say, George Ord and William Maclure. He was assistant to Say on the expedition to the Rocky Mountains led by Stephen Harriman Long in 1819. The collection submitted to the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia from this expedition included 122 drawings by Peale. He acquired a wild turkey for the museum's collections.\nPeale provided illustrations for Say's \"American Entomology\" (1824–28) and Charles Lucien Bonaparte's \"American Ornithology\" (1825–33). He also undertook a collecting expedition to Florida on behalf of Bonaparte.\n\nIn 1831, Peale published a pamphlet known as \"Circular of the Philadelphia Museum: Containing Direction for the Preservation and Preparation of Objects of Natural History\". The Peale museum continued to gain a worldwide reputation. He developed an effective method for storing butterflies in sealed cases with glass fronts and backs. As a result, parts of his collection have been preserved until the present day. His meticulous collection of over 100 separate butterfly species was often praised for the brilliance and vibrancy of the insects' colors.\n\nIn 1838, two years after Charles Darwin had returned from his voyage on the \"Beagle\", Peale took leave from his work at the museum to sail aboard the \"Peacock\" as chief naturalist for the United States Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842 led by Lt. Charles Wilkes. As chief naturalist, he collected and preserved various specimens of natural history, many of which he packed and shipped back to the museum. Peale's post-expedition report, \"Mammalia and Ornithology\" (1848), was suppressed due to objections by Wilkes and John Cassin. Cassin was hired to produce a corrected volume, which was published in 1858. During the expedition, Wilkes named Peale Passage after Titian Peale.\n\nOn May 1, 1843, financial pressures forced Peale to sell the bankrupt museum at a sheriff's sale to Isaac Brown Parker. Peale went on to work for the U.S. Patent Office and to become a pioneer American photographer.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39780446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39780446", "title": "Ultra low velocity zone", "text": "Ultra low velocity zone\n\nUltra low velocity zones (ULVZs) are patches on the core-mantle boundary that have extremely low seismic velocities. The zones are mapped to be hundreds of kilometers in diameter and tens of kilometers thick. Their shear wave velocities can be up to 30% lower than surrounding material. The composition and origin of the zones remain uncertain. The zones appear to correlate with edges of the African and Pacific Large low-shear-velocity provinces (LLSVPs) as well as the location of hotspots.\n\nULVZs are discovered by the delay and scattering of body waves that reflect and diffract on or are refracted by the core-mantle boundary. Different body waves types give different constraints on the dimensions or velocity contrasts of the ULVZ. Even though ULVZs are discovered in places, it remains difficult to map out their extent and constrain their density and velocity. Usually trade-offs between various parameters exist. In general though, ULVZs appear to be a hundred to a thousand kilometers across and tens of kilometers thick (although existing thinner or smaller ULVZs might fall below the resolution of seismology). Their shear wave velocity reduction is on the order of -10 to -30% and the compressional wave velocity reduction tends to be weaker.\n\nULVZs are hypothesized to be enriched in iron, be partially molten or a combination of both, or result of the presence of carbon. Different scenarios have been proposed for the iron enrichment: iron could be leaking from the core, have accumulated over past subduction, or be remnants of a basal magma ocean. Both silicate perovskite and periclase (which are thought to be present in the lowermost mantle) show reduced velocities with increasing iron at these pressures and temperatures.\n\nExperiments with iron and water under the conditions present form an iron peroxide FeOH\"x\" that will contribute to ULVZ.\n\nULVZs have higher density than their surroundings to remain stable on the core-mantle boundary. In a general mantle convection setting, the density contrast as well as the amount of material available would control the morphology/shape of the ULVZ. So far a range of sizes for ULVZs has been found. The location and shape of the ULVZs can also be controlled by the presence of thermo-chemical piles (or LLSVPs). The denser ULVZ material heaps up at the edges of these piles.\n\nThe Hawaiian ULVZ appears to be the largest ULVZ mapped to date. It sits on the core-mantle boundary slightly to the west of the Hawaiian hotspot at the northern boundary of the Pacific large low-shear-velocity province. It is mapped out to be roughly 1000 km across and 20 km high. Its large aspect ratio dynamically suggests it is very dense. Its shear wave velocity reduction is roughly 20% compared to surrounding material. It remains speculative if there is a correlation between this large ULVZ and the presence of the strongest hotspot flux at the surface; potentially the ULVZ could be an anchor to a whole-mantle plume.\nThe Samoan is another mega-ultra-low velocity zone which lies directly beneath the Samoa hotspot. This zone is roughly 800 by 250 km (roughly the size of Florida) and is 10–15 km high. Its material appears 45% slower in shear wave velocity, 15% slower in compressional wave velocity and 10% denser. Additionally, the ULVZ appears to lie in a gap of the Pacific LLSVP (not represented in the illustration here), leading to the hypothesis that this slow material is pushed to the center by surrounding large piles.\n"}
{"id": "39512109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39512109", "title": "Von Kármán wind turbulence model", "text": "Von Kármán wind turbulence model\n\nThe von Kármán wind turbulence model, also known as von Kármán gusts, is a mathematical model of continuous gusts. It matches observed continuous gusts better than that Dryden Wind Turbulence Model and is the preferred model of the United States Department of Defense in most aircraft design and simulation applications. The von Kármán model treats the linear and angular velocity components of continuous gusts as spatially varying stochastic processes and specifies each component's power spectral density. The von Kármán wind turbulence model is characterized by irrational power spectral densities, so filters can be designed that take white noise inputs and output stochastic processes with the approximated von Kármán gusts' power spectral densities.\n\nThe von Kármán wind turbulence model first appeared in a 1957 NACA report based on earlier work by Theodore von Kármán.\n\nThe von Kármán model is characterized by power spectral densities for gusts' three linear velocity components (\"u\",\"v\",\"w\"),\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere \"σ\" and \"L\" are the turbulence intensity and scale length, respectively, for the \"i\"th velocity component, and \"Ω\" is a spatial frequency. These power spectral densities give the stochastic process spatial variations, but any temporal variations rely on vehicle motion through the gust velocity field. The speed with which the vehicle is moving through the gust field \"V\" allows conversion of these power spectral densities to different types of frequencies,\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere ω has units of radians per unit time.\n\nThe gust angular velocity components (\"p\",\"q\",\"r\") are defined as the variations of the linear velocity components along the different vehicle axes,\n\nformula_3\n\nthough different sign conventions may be used in some sources. The power spectral densities for the angular velocity components are\n\nformula_4\n\nThe military specifications give criteria based on vehicle stability derivatives to determine whether the gust angular velocity components are significant.\n\nThe gusts generated by the von Kármán model are not a white noise process and therefore may be referred to as colored noise. Colored noise may, in some circumstances, be generated as the output of a minimum phase linear filter through a process known as spectral factorization. Consider a linear time invariant system with a white noise input that has unit variance, transfer function \"G\"(\"s\"), and output \"y\"(\"t\"). The power spectral density of \"y\"(\"t\") is\n\nformula_5\n\nwhere \"i\" = -1. For irrational power spectral densities, such as that of the von Kármán model, a suitable transfer function can be found whose magnitude squared evaluated along the imaginary axis approximates the power spectral density. The MATLAB documentation provides a realization of such a transfer function for von Kármán gusts that is consistent with the military specifications,\n\nformula_6\n\nDriving these filters with independent, unit variance, band-limited white noise yields outputs with power spectral densities that approximate the power spectral densities of the velocity components of the von Kármán model. The outputs can, in turn, be used as wind disturbance inputs for aircraft or other dynamic systems.\n\nThe von Kármán model is parameterized by a length scale and turbulence intensity. The combination of these two parameters determine the shape of the power spectral densities and therefore the quality of the model's fit to spectra of observed turbulence. Many combinations of length scale and turbulence intensity give realistic power spectral densities in the desired frequency ranges. The Department of Defense specifications include choices for both parameters, including their dependence on altitude.\n\n\n"}
