{"id": "36908490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36908490", "title": "Al-Hasan ibn Sahl", "text": "Al-Hasan ibn Sahl\n\nAl-Hasan ibn Sahl (died 850/51) was an Abbasid official and governor of Iraq for Caliph al-Ma'mun (reigned 813–833) during the Fourth Fitna.\n\nHasan's father was an Iranian Zoroastrian convert to Islam. Along with his brother, the future vizier al-Fadl ibn Sahl, Hasan entered the service of the Barmakid al-Fadl ibn Yahya in the reign of Harun al-Rashid (r. 786–809). During the civil war of the Fourth Fitna against Ma'mun's half-brother al-Amin (r. 808–813), he was entrusted with the supervision of the land tax (\"kharaj\") office. \n\nAfter Ma'mun's troops captured the caliphal capital, Baghdad, Hasan was sent west to assume the governance of Iraq, while Ma'mun and Fadl remained in Marv. In early 815, the Zaydi Alid revolt of Ibn Tabataba and Abu 'l-Saraya al-Sirri broke out at Kufa and spread quickly through southern Iraq. Hasan proved unable to confront it, and the rebels at one point threatened Baghdad itself before the intervention of the capable general Harthama ibn A'yan led to the suppression of the revolt. The domination of the Caliphate by Fadl and the Khurasanis around him however aroused great opposition among the old-established Arab aristocracy who advised al-Ma'mun to replace him with an Arab governor instead. The animosity between al-Hasan and the Arab aristocracy is reflected by the anti-Hasan slogan: \"We won't accept the Zoroastrian, son of the Zoroastrian al-Hasan b. Sahl, and we'll drive him out until he returns to Khurasan\". Hasan ibn Sahl was forced to abandon the city, where various factional leaders shared power. A year later his brother al-Fadl was assassinated. Perhaps by the same party. In July 817, after news reached the city that Ma'mun had chosen an Alid, Ali ibn Musa al-Rida, as his heir-apparent, the city appointed his uncle, Ibrahim ibn al-Mahdi, as Caliph.\n\nFollowing Fadl's murder in 818 and Ma'mun's entry in Baghdad in 819, there were expectations that Hasan would succeed his brother as vizier of the Caliphate, but Hasan, shocked by Fadl's death, preferred to retire from politics and withdraw to his estates around Wasit, where he remained until his death in 850/1. In 825, however, he married his daughter, Buran (807–884), to Ma'mun, and gave her as dowry the palace of Qasr al-Hasani, south of Baghdad, which thereafter became one of the caliphal residences.\n\n"}
{"id": "7761376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7761376", "title": "Alvar Ellegård", "text": "Alvar Ellegård\n\nAlvar Ellegård (November 12, 1919 – February 8, 2008) was a Swedish linguist and scholar. He was professor of English at the University of Gothenburg, and a member of the academic board of the Swedish National Encyclopedia. \n\nHe is the author of a number of books and papers on English language and linguistics, including \"A Statistical Method for Determining Authorship\" (1962). He also became known outside the field for his work on the conflict between religious dogma and science, and for his promotion of the Jesus myth theory, the idea that Jesus did not exist as an historical figure. His books about religion and science include \"Darwin and the General Reader\" (1958), \"The Myth of Jesus\" (1992), and \"Jesus: One Hundred Years Before Christ. A Study in Creative Mythology (1999).\n\nIn 1953 Ellegård published his PhD thesis, which dealt with the development of the use of the auxiliary \"do\" in the grammar of late Middle English and Early Modern English. This thesis has remained an influential and frequently cited work central to the study of this aspect of the historical syntax of English. He was appointed associate professor of English in the same year. He was a professor of the English language at Gothenburg University between 1962 and 1984. His book \"Darwin and the General Reader\" (1958) is a detailed study of the changes in British public opinion which took place following the 1859 publication of \"The Origin of Species\". It is based on an analysis of the periodical press of the period.\n\nIn 1977, he was elected member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities. \n\nAfter retirement Ellegård started a new line of research into the historicity of Jesus and the idea that Jesus is a myth. In his book \"Myten om Jesus (The Myth of Jesus)\" (1992), he presents new theories about the Dead Sea Scrolls and their association with the early history of Christianity. Ellegård argues that the Jesus of the gospels is a mythical figure and that the gospels are largely fiction. He identifies the figure Paul of Tarsus had a vision of as corresponding to the Essene Teacher of Righteousness, the leader of the Essenes at Qumran about 150 years before the gospels, and writes that it was Paul who created Christianity through his contacts with the sect that kept the Dead Sea Scrolls.\n\nAccording to Ellegård, the Damascus Document gives support to this theory. The document states that the Essenes moved to Damascus outside Jerusalem, but the word \"Damascus\" appears to being used symbolically to refer to exile. Ellegård interprets this as evidence that the \"Damascus\" that is mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles in fact is Qumran. Paul was on his way to Damascus when he had a vision of Jesus.\n\n"}
{"id": "27691372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27691372", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Mongolia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Mongolia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Mongolia dates back only to the 1980s and 1990s, as prior to that point Mongolia's Communist anti-religious stance impeded the spread of the religion to that country. The first Bahá'í arrived in Mongolia in 1988, and the religion established a foothold there, later establishing a Local Spiritual Assembly in that nation. In 1994, the Bahá’ís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly. Though the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated only some 50 Bahá'ís in 2005 more than 1,700 Mongolian Bahá'ís turned out for a regional conference in 2009.\n\nIn July 1989 Sean Hinton, first Bahá'í to reside in Mongolia, was named a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh, and the last name to be entered on the Roll of Honor at the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh. The first Mongolian, Ms. Oyundelger at age 22 joined the religion later in 1989. Hinton was trained in Baroque Flute and Conducting at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, he pursued a master's degree in Ethnomusicology at Cambridge University - the research then brought him to Mongolia. In recognition of his six years of services to the country, he was appointed Honorary Consul-General of Mongolia - the sole representative in Australia for the Mongolian government.\n\nIn the late summer of 1992, Semira Manaseki, a British Baha'i youth, and 2 youth members of the Marion Jack Teaching Project who were working mostly within Russia at the time, came to Mongolia to participate in a concerted effort to share the Baha'i Faith with a wider range of Mongolians. After a concerted two-month effort, there were new Baha'i communities in Darhkan and Erdennet, effectively tripling the size and location of the community at the time, which had been based solely out of Ulanbaatar. Members of the project stayed in the country until the following summer to help with consolidation efforts which resulted in the beginnings of a new community in Sainshand and eventually the first Mongolian Baha'i Summer School in 1993.\n\nIn June 1995 the first national youth school held in Mongolia.\n\nRuhi institute courses begun in 1996 are credited by Bahá'í sources as resulting in 228 enrollments in one year, which raised the Bahá’í national population to some 500. A further program was initiated in June 2004 and in about a month in 200 new declarations, including 60 junior youth resulted. Within a few weeks about 30 of these individuals had completed the first three books of the sequence and 137 children were participating in children’s classes.\n\nRegional conferences were called for by the Universal House of Justice 20 October 2008 to celebrate recent achievements in grassroots community-building and to plan their next steps in organizing in their home areas. Ulaanbaatar was the gathering place for more than 1,800 Bahá'ís from Mongolia and Russia. More people than expected came from various regions of the country, including 408 individuals from Khövsgöl, 143 from Khentii Province, 160 from Uliastai, 120 from Sainshand, and 450 from the capital itself. More than 50 Bahá'ís arrived from Russia. Continental Counselors Khursheda Porsayeva, Bijan Farid, and Delafruz Nassimova attended and Counselors Uransaikhan Baatar, herself Mongolian, and Joan Lincoln, represented the Universal House of Justice. Mr. Tsedendambaa, Adviser to the President of Mongolia for Religious Affairs addressed the conference with a message of encouragement to the Bahá'ís. Dr. Batsereedene, a former Minister of Health also spoke at the conference.\n\nDavid Lambert (OBE), a British Bahá'í living in Mongolia, was honored for his services to the development of English language studies in Mongolia. In 2003 he was chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Mongolia. He and his wife, Lois, are the longest serving volunteers in the British Voluntary Service Overseas organization. He is a member of the first Arts Council of Mongolia and developed the Ulaanbaatar's University of Humanities English language library that is the most extensive in the country. He arranged for British publishers to donate many books and for the United Kingdom government to transport them to Mongolia. In 2008 Lois Lambert was awarded a medal as a \"State Honoured Citizen\" in recognition of her \"invaluable intellectual contributions to the health sector of Mongolia through the training of medical professionals utilizing a positive participatory approach, excellent communication skills and demonstrating a high professional knowledge and exemplary ethics.\" (See below).\n\nSince 2001 efforts of the Bahá'ís have been informed by the FUNDAEC initiative in Colombia and there has been work translation the Hidden Words into Mongolian.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nThe Mongolian Development Centre (MDC) was established in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as a Bahá'í-inspired non-governmental organization established in April 1993 with the objective of translating the spiritual principles found in the Bahá'í Writings into practice for the betterment of Mongolian society. Working with local communities through programs centered on development and education, MDC contributes to a learning process aimed at the sustainable social, economic, and spiritual advancement of the country. One of the organization’s areas of focus has been an early childhood development program with a character development curriculum to nurture moral reasoning in children between 3 and 6 years of age with training assistance for teachers of kindergarten classes. MDC also administers a junior youth program to foster the empowerment of 12- to 14-year-olds by assisting them to develop intellectual and moral capabilities that enable them to transform themselves and contribute to the upliftment of their communities. MDC began conducting the program in a few schools in 2005, and by 2007 the program had been adopted by 11 schools in Baganuur, Muron, Sainshand, and Ulaanbaatar, involving over 1,300 junior youth. The MDC also initiated a Community Capacity Development program that focuses on two initiatives: a gardening project offers courses in biointensive methods for growing vegetables (see below) and a Community Banking Program, aimed at increasing the financial resources available in a community and building local capacity to manage these resources by combining spiritual principles with practical considerations. In 2007, there were six community banks with some 100 members operating in two different locations in Mongolia. It is coordinating funding and resources in the UK between Bahá'í sources and others still in 2010.\n\nThe 1997 Human Development Report for Mongolia, published by the United Nations Development Programme, pointed to nutritional issues being a serious widespread concern pointing to a lack of fruits and vegetables being a key issue. Governmental and non-governmental organizations are keenly aware of the problems posed by the limited diet. The national government proclaimed 1993 as \"food year\". In May 1995, the Bahá'í community of Erdenbulgan began to talk about undertaking some sort of local social and economic development project, coming up with a list of possibilities that included establishing a bread bakery, erecting a cultural center, sponsoring English classes and starting a vegetable garden. After further consultation, the Bahá'ís decided in 1996 that the vegetable garden was perhaps the easiest to undertake immediately - and perhaps the most needed. They got permission in 1997 from the municipality to fence off a quarter hectare of land near the Eg River. And knowing it needed help, the community reached outside itself, asking the national Bahá'í office in Ulaanbaatar for advice and assistance. Officials at the national office knew about the presence in the region of Mr. Megit, a Canadian agricultural specialist who is also a Bahá'í and who had been working in nearby Ulan Ude, Russia. They invited him to travel to Erdenbulgan and consult with them, which he did in April 1996. Partly because of what he saw, Mr. Megit decided to relocate to Mongolia in late 1996, where he joined the staff of the Mongolian Development Center (MDC), a national-level non-governmental organization established by a group of Bahá'ís to provide various forms of technical assistance to local communities. Maitar Tsend, the director of the Mongolian Horticultural Society, an independent NGO which has also launched its own campaign to encourage small-scale vegetable gardening, drew attention to the project in Erdenbulgan as a model for all of Mongolia because of the way it has educated and empowered local people. \"Before, during the Communist period, it was prohibited even to have a garden, because it was regarded as private initiative. So people don't think they can grow vegetables themselves or they think that growing cabbage is more difficult than raising sheep. But now things are changing very quickly, and the Erdenbulgan community has demonstrated this.\"\n\nDr. Byambaagiin Batsereedene, a former Minister of Health and the owner and director of the Etugen Institute, a medical college in Ulaanbaatar where Bahá'ís have been conducting classes in moral education through a Ruhi Institute course since 2007. In 2009, with a team of 14 Bahá'í facilitators, 400 students are following the course at the request of Dr. Batsereedene.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2236690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236690", "title": "Bahá'í teachings", "text": "Bahá'í teachings\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings represent a considerable number of theological, social, and spiritual ideas that were established in the Bahá'í Faith by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion, and clarified by successive leaders including `Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh's son, and Shoghi Effendi, `Abdu'l-Bahá's grandson. The teachings were written in various Bahá'í writings. The teachings of the religion, combined with the authentic teachings of several past religions, including Islam and Christianity, are regarded by Bahá'ís as teachings revealed by God.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings include theological statements about God, his messengers, and humans, as well as social teachings including the equality of all humans, regardless of gender, race and class, the harmony of science of religion, compulsory education, and the elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty, among others.\n\nThe most prominent and distinctive principles in the Bahá'í teachings are love and unity, which are exemplified by the Golden rule, and the many social principles.\n\nShoghi Effendi, the appointed head of the religion from 1921–1957, wrote the following summary of what he considered to be the distinguishing principles of Bahá'u'lláh's teachings, which, he said, together with the laws and ordinances of the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" constitute the bed-rock of the Bahá'í Faith:\nThe independent search after truth, unfettered by superstition or tradition; the oneness of the entire human race, the pivotal principle and fundamental doctrine of the Faith; the basic unity of all religions; the condemnation of all forms of prejudice, whether religious, racial, class or national; the harmony which must exist between religion and science; the equality of men and women, the two wings on which the bird of human kind is able to soar; the introduction of compulsory education; the adoption of a universal auxiliary language; the abolition of the extremes of wealth and poverty; the institution of a world tribunal for the adjudication of disputes between nations; the exaltation of work, performed in the spirit of service, to the rank of worship; the glorification of justice as the ruling principle in human society, and of religion as a bulwark for the protection of all peoples and nations; and the establishment of a permanent and universal peace as the supreme goal of all mankind—these stand out as the essential elements [which Bahá'u'lláh proclaimed].\n\nThree core assertions of the Bahá'í Faith, sometimes termed the \"three onenesses\", are central in the teachings of the religion. They are the \"Oneness of God\", the \"Oneness of Religion\" and the \"Oneness of Humanity\". They are also referred to as the unity of God, unity of religion, and unity of mankind. The Bahá'í writings state that there is a single, all-powerful god, revealing his message through a series of divine messengers or educators, regarding them as one progressively revealed religion, to one single humanity, who all possess a rational soul and only differ according to colour and culture. This idea is fundamental not only to explaining Bahá'í beliefs, but explaining the attitude Bahá'ís have towards other religions, which they regard as divinely inspired. The acceptance of every race and culture in the world has brought Bahá'í demographics diversity, becoming the second most widespread faith in the world, and translating its literature into over 800 languages.\n\nThe Bahá'í view of God is essentially monotheistic. God is the imperishable, uncreated being who is the source of all existence. He is described as \"a personal God, unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation, eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty\". Though transcendent and inaccessible directly, his image is reflected in his creation. The purpose of creation is for the created to have the capacity to know and love its creator.\n\nIn Baha'i belief, although human cultures and religions differ on their conceptions of God and his nature, the different references to God nevertheless refer to one and the same Being. The differences, instead of being regarded as irreconcilable constructs of mutually exclusive cultures, are seen as purposefully reflective of the varying needs of the societies in which the divine messages were revealed.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that God is too great for humans to create an accurate conception of. In the Bahá'í understanding, the attributes attributed to God, such as \"All-Powerful\" and \"All-Loving\" are derived from limited human experiences of power and love. Bahá'u'lláh taught that the knowledge of God is limited to those attributes and qualities which are perceptible to us, and thus direct knowledge of God is not possible. Furthermore, Bahá'u'lláh states that knowledge of the attributes of God is revealed to humanity through his messengers.\n\nAs our knowledge of things, even of created and limited things, is knowledge of their qualities and not of their essence, how is it possible to comprehend in its essence the Divine Reality, which is unlimited? ... Knowing God, therefore, means the comprehension and the knowledge of His attributes, and not of His Reality. This knowledge of the attributes is also proportioned to the capacity and power of man; it is not absolute.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í writings teach of a personal god who is a being with a personality (including the capacity to reason and to feel love), they clearly state that this does not imply a human or physical form. The Bahá'í teachings state that one can get closer to God through prayer, meditation, study of the holy writings, and service.\n\nThe Bahá'í writings teach that there is but one humanity and all people are equal in the sight of God. The Bahá'í Faith emphasizes the unity of humanity transcending all divisions of race, nation, gender, caste, and social class, while celebrating its diversity. `Abdu'l-Bahá states that the unification of mankind has now become \"the paramount issue and question in the religious and political conditions of the world.\" The Bahá'í writings affirm the biological, political, and spiritual unity of mankind. Bahá'u'lláh wrote:\n\nYe are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. Deal ye one with another with the utmost love and harmony, with friendliness and fellowship.\n\nRegarding biological unity the Bahá'í writings state that differences between various races, nations, and ethnic groups are either superficial (e.g. skin colour) or the result of differences in background or education. A basic Bahá'í teaching is the elimination of all forms of prejudice, which refers to not only the elimination of racial prejudice but also that of other forms of prejudice such as gender discrimination.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that while ethnic and cultural diversity will continue to exist, humanity's first allegiance will be with the human race rather than any subsidiary group such as race, nation, or ethnic group. There will be an end not only to war, but even to inter-group rivalry.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í writings talk about the unity of the world and its peoples, unity is not equated to uniformity, but instead the Bahá'í writings affirm the value of cultural, national and individual diversity through the principle of \"Unity in diversity,\" which states that while recognizing the unity of mankind, cultural diversity should be celebrated. Unity in diversity is commonly described in the Bahá'í writings through the analogy of flowers of one garden, where the different colours of the flowers add to the beauty of the garden.\n\nIt [the Faith] does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress, the diversity of ethnic origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradition, of thought and habit, that differentiate the peoples and nations of the world... Its watchword is unity in diversity...\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that there is but one religion which is progressively revealed by God, through prophets/messengers, to mankind as humanity matures and its capacity to understand also grows. The outward differences in the religions, the Bahá'í writings state, are due to the exigencies of the time and place the religion was revealed. Bahá'u'lláh claimed to be the most recent, but not the last, in a series of divine educators which include Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad, and others.\n\nThe Bahá'í writings state that the essential nature of the messengers is twofold: they are at once human and divine. They are divine in that they all come from the same god and expound his teachings, and thus they can be seen in the same light, but at the same time they are separate individuals known by different names, who fulfill definite missions and are entrusted with particular revelations. Bahá'u'lláh in many places states that denying any of the messengers of God is equivalent to denying all of them, and God himself. Regarding the relationships of these educators, which Bahá'ís refer to as Manifestations of God Bahá'u'lláh writes:\n\nGod hath ordained the knowledge of these sanctified Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His own Self. Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God. Whoso hearkeneth to their call, hath hearkened to the Voice of God, and whoso testifieth to the truth of their Revelation, hath testified to the truth of God Himself. Whoso turneth away from them, hath turned away from God, and whoso disbelieveth in them, hath disbelieved in God . . . They are the Manifestations of God amidst men, the evidences of His Truth, and the signs of His glory.\n\nBahá'ís believe God to be generally regular and periodic in revealing His will to mankind through messengers/prophets, which are named Manifestations of God. Each messenger in turn establishes a covenant and founds a religion. This process of revelation, according to the Bahá'í writings, is also never ceasing, which is contrary to many other belief systems that believe in a finality of their prophet/messenger. The general theme of the successive and continuous religions founded by Manifestations of God is that there is an evolutionary tendency, and that each Manifestation of God brings a larger measure of revelation (or religion) to humankind than the previous one. The differences in the revelation brought by the Manifestations of God is stated to be not inherent in the characteristics of the Manifestation of God, but instead attributed to the various worldly, societal and human factors; these differences are in accordance with the \"conditions\" and \"varying requirements of the age\" and the \"spiritual capacity\" of humanity. These differences are seen to be needed since human society has slowly and gradually evolved through higher stages of unification from the family to tribes and then nations.\n\nThus religious truth is seen to be relative to its recipients and not absolute; while the messengers proclaimed eternal moral and spiritual truths that are renewed by each messenger, they also changed their message to reflect the particular spiritual and material evolution of humanity at the time of the appearance of the messenger. In the Bahá'í view, since humanity's spiritual capacity and receptivity has increased over time, the extent to which these spiritual truths are expounded changes.\n\nBahá'u'lláh explained that the appearance of successive messengers was like the annual coming of Spring, which brings new life to the world which has come to neglect the teachings of the previous messenger. He also used an analogy of the world as the human body, and revelation as a robe of \"justice and wisdom\".\n\nBahá'u'lláh mentioned in the \"Kitáb-i-Íqán\" that God will renew the \"City of God\" about every thousand years, and specifically mentioned that a new Manifestation of God would not appear within 1000 years of Bahá'u'lláh's message.\n\nThe earliest forms of religion are seen, in many of the Bahá'í Writings, to be like early school. In this view humanity, like a child, has been maturing with a greater ability to grasp complex ideas as it grows in years and passes school. Each time a divine messenger appear, the message was given at levels appropriate to humanity's degree of maturation. In this view each different religion may have had truth explained differently according to the needs of the recipients of the teaching.\n\nThe following principles are frequently listed as a quick summary of the Bahá'í teachings. They are derived from transcripts of speeches given by `Abdu'l-Bahá during his tour of Europe and North America in 1912. The list is not authoritative and a variety of such lists circulate.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith affirms gender equality; that men and women are equal. Bahá'u'lláh noted that there was no distinction in the spiritual stations of men and women. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote that both men and women possess the same potential for virtues and intelligence, and compared the two genders and the progress of civilization to the two wings of a bird where each wing is needed to provide flight. In this sense, the equality of the sexes is seen as Bahá'ís as a spiritual and moral standard that is essential for the unification of the planet and the unfoldment of world order, and in the importance of implementing the principle in individual, family, and community life.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í teachings assert the full spiritual and social equality of women to men, there are some aspects of gender distinctiveness or gender differentiation in certain areas of life. Men and women are seen as having different strength and abilities that enable them to better fill different roles. Thus there are certain teachings that give preference to men in some limited circumstances and some that give preference to women. One of these aspects relate to biological fact of potential motherhood for women, and thus the Bahá'í teaching that girls should be given priority in education as they potentially would be the children's first educator. In terms of Bahá'í administration, all positions except for membership on the Universal House of Justice are open to men and women. No specific reason has been given for this exception, but `Abdu'l-Bahá has stated that there is a wisdom for it, which would eventually become clear. Regardless rates of women serving at national levels of governance in the religion exceed those in general society: in 2010 the world average for female members of parliaments was 19%, while the world average of women serving on national assemblies had reached rates of 39%.\n\nThe harmony of science and religion is a central tenet of the Bahá'í teachings. The principle states that that truth is one, and therefore true science and true religion must be in harmony, thus rejecting the view that science and religion are in conflict. `Abdu'l-Bahá asserted that science without religion leads to materialism, and religion without science leads to superstition; he also affirmed that reasoning powers are required to understand the truths of religion. `Abdu'l-Bahá condemned civilizations based solely on materialistic beliefs which he said would bring about moral problems.\n\nThe theme of education in the Bahá'í Faith is given quite prominent emphasis. Its literature gives a principle of universal, or compulsory education. The Bahá'í teachings focus on promoting a moral and spiritual education, in addition to the arts, trades, sciences and professions. Bahá'u'lláh wrote that the spiritual capacities of each individual could not be achieved without spiritual education, and thus children needed to have spiritual/religious education from an early stage. He also stressed the importance of secular education in that one's work and vocation is socially important. The Bahá'í teachings state it is the obligation of the parents to provide for the education of their children, and that special importance should be given to the education of girls.\n\nAs part of the focus on the unity of humankind, the Bahá'í teachings see improved communication between peoples throughout the world as a vital part of world unity and peace. The Bahá'í teachings see the current multiplicity of languages as a major impediment to unity, since the existence of so many languages cuts the free flow of information and makes it difficult for the average individual to obtain a universal perspective on world events.\n\nBahá'u'lláh taught that the lack of a common language is a major barrier to world unity since the lack of communication between peoples of different languages undermines efforts toward world peace due to misunderstandings of language; he urged that humanity should choose an auxiliary language that would be taught in schools in addition to one's own native language, so that people could understand one another. He stated that until an auxiliary language is adopted, complete unity between the various parts of the world would continue to be unrealized.\n\nBahá'u'lláh stressed, however, that the auxiliary language should not suppress existing natural languages, and that the concept of \"unity in diversity\" must be applied to languages. The Bahá'í teachings state that cultural heterogeneity is compatible with unity, and that at the present time in the history of humankind, the Bahá'í teaching of unity requires the embracing of cultural diversity since humanity is enriched by the various cultures throughout the world. The Bahá'í teachings also state that having an international auxiliary language would remove the pressure from the natural aggrandizement of majority language groups and thus preserve minority languages, since each person would keep their own mother-tongue, and thus minority cultures.\n\nBahá'u'lláh taught that each human being must acquire knowledge through their processes, and not blindly believe or follow others blindly, and he made it a fundamental obligation. He stated that since Truth is one, that when a person independently investigates they lead to the same truth and help lead to the oneness of humanity. Baha'is are forbidden from communicating with Covenant-breakers or reading their literature. Additionally when Baha'is published material explaining the religion, the Baha'i administration had practiced \"literature review,\" a fact decried by some, wherein Bahá'ís submit their material for vetting before it is published to ensure credibility from the administration's understanding.\n\nThe teachings of the Bahá'í Faith state that it is necessary to eliminate the extremes of wealth and poverty. `Abdu'l-Bahá noted both poverty and extreme wealth disallowed for a compassionate society, as poverty demoralized people and extreme wealth overburdened people. Bahá'u'lláh wrote that rich should take care of the poor, as the poor are a divine trust. The Bahá'í teachings state of multiple ways of addressing the extremes of wealth and poverty including institutional means, such as Huqúqu'lláh, as well as creating a sense of mutual concern.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í teachings promote the elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty they do not promote communism and instead legitimize individual property. `Abdu'l-Bahá further noted that wealth by itself was not evil, and could be used for good.\n\nCovenant in the Bahá'í Faith refers to two separate binding agreements between God and man. There is a distinction between a \"Greater Covenant\" which is made between every messenger from God and his followers concerning the next dispensation, and a \"Lesser Covenant\" that concerns successorship of authority within the religion after the messenger dies.\n\nThe greater covenant refers to the covenant made between each messenger from God, which the literature of the Bahá'í Faith name Manifestations of God, and his followers regarding the coming of the next Manifestation from God. According to Bahá'u'lláh God has promised that he will send a succession of messengers that will instruct humankind. In Bahá'í belief, this covenant is seen to be expressed in prophecy in the religious scripture of each religion, and each Manifestation of God, such as Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, the Báb, and Bahá'u'lláh, prophesied the next Manifestation. In return, the followers of each religion are seen to have a duty to investigate the claims of the following Manifestations.\n\nThe lesser covenant is a covenant that concerns the recognition of the messenger, acceptance and application of his teachings and laws made regarding the successorship of authority within the religion. In Bahá'í belief the manner in which the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh was clearly put forth is seen as being a fundamental defining feature of the religion and a powerful protector of the unity of the Bahá'í Faith and its adherents.\n\n\"Bahá'í administration\" or \"Bahá'í administrative order\" is the administrative system of the religion which directly rests on the teachings of the religion penned by its central figures - especially Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá. It is split into two parts, the elected and the appointed. The supreme governing institution of the Bahá'í Faith is the Universal House of Justice, situated in Haifa, Israel.\n\nThe Bahá'í administration has four charter scriptural documents,\n\nKey to the function of Bahá'í organization is the principle of consultation. This refers to the method of non-adversarial discussion and decision-making which is described in the Bahá'í writings, and which is used in all levels of Bahá'í administration. Consultation strives to move beyond a decision making process that accepts the majority view, to one that aims to discover truth through universal participation and disciplined cooperation.\n\nGod is described in the Bahá'í writings a single, personal, inaccessible, omniscient, omnipresent, imperishable, and almighty God who is the creator of all things in the universe. The existence of God and the universe is thought to be eternal, without a beginning or end. The Bahá'í teachings state that God is too great for humans to fully comprehend, or to create a complete and accurate image of, by themselves. Therefore, human understanding of God is achieved through his revelations via his Manifestations. In the Bahá'í religion God is often referred to by titles and attributes (e.g. the All-Powerful, or the All-Loving), and there is a substantial emphasis on monotheism. The Bahá'í teachings state that the attributes which are applied to God are used to translate Godliness into human terms and also to help individuals concentrate on their own attributes in worshipping God to develop their potentialities on their spiritual path. According to the Bahá'í teachings the human purpose is to learn to know and love God through such methods as prayer, reflection and being of service to humankind.\n\nThe Bahá'í writings state that human beings have a \"rational soul\", and that this provides the species with a unique capacity to recognize God's station and humanity's relationship with its creator. Every human is seen to have a duty to recognize God through His messengers, and to conform to their teachings. Through recognition and obedience, service to humanity and regular prayer and spiritual practice, the Bahá'í writings state that the soul becomes closer to God, the spiritual ideal in Bahá'í belief. When a human dies, the soul passes into the next world, where its spiritual development in the physical world becomes a basis for judgment and advancement in the spiritual world. Bahá'ís' believe in the eternal life of the soul rather than reincarnation. Heaven and Hell are taught to be spiritual states of nearness or distance from God that describe relationships in this world and the next, and not physical places of reward and punishment achieved after death. See Bahá'í Faith on life after death.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2100829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100829", "title": "Bass Strait Triangle", "text": "Bass Strait Triangle\n\nThe Bass Strait Triangle is the waters that separate the states of Victoria and Tasmania, including Bass Strait, in south-eastern Australia. The term \"Bass Strait Triangle\" (inspired by the Bermuda Triangle) appears to have been first used following the Valentich Disappearance in 1978 although the region had a bad reputation (never ascribed to supernatural forces, however) long before that.\n\nBass Strait is a generally shallow (average depth of ) stretch of water approximately wide and from north to south, encompassed by the entire northern coastline of Tasmania and Victoria's central to eastern coast. The prevailing winds and currents are westerly, the latter being divided by King Island, Tasmania at the western entrance to the strait, causing unpredictable sea conditions, especially when strong winds occur. For example, strong southerly winds can cause a strong northerly current reflecting from the Victorian coast. The combination of winds, currents, tidal flow and the shallow bottom often lead to tall waves, often of short length, with a confused short swell often conflicting in direction.\n\nAll shipping to the busy ports of Melbourne, Stanley, Burnie, Devonport, Bell Bay and Launceston and the Bass Strait islands such as King Island and Flinders Island must pass through Bass Strait, and it is also the route of choice for many ships passing from the Australian west to east coasts. Most air traffic between Tasmania and the Australian mainland flies at least in part over or adjacent to it.\n\nBass Strait was discovered following the wreck of the ship \"Sydney Cove\" in 1797 and one of the vessels engaged in the salvage operation, the sloop \"Eliza\", went missing on her return voyage to Sydney. Hundreds of vessels up to the size of bulk carriers have come to grief in Bass Strait since that time through hitting reefs, running aground on the coastline or on river bars while entering port, or foundering due to stress of weather, some dozens being lost without a trace.\n\nActual north-south (and vice versa) crossing of Bass Strait seldom occurred until after Melbourne was established in 1835. From 1838-1840, at least seven vessels were lost with all hands on their way to or from the new settlement, wreckage from only three being identified. Rumours that some of these vessels had fallen victim to wreckers appear baseless, the main cause probably being bad weather and poor charts. Over the next 100 years, dozens of other vessels have gone missing after entering the Straits, many without trace. One of the most significant disappearances was that of the British warship in 1858, in which well over one hundred lives were lost.\n\nThe first aircraft to go missing in Bass Strait was a military Airco DH.9A that was engaged in a search for the missing schooner \"Amelia J\" in 1920 — it was believed to have gone into the sea off the southern coast of Flinders Island.\n\nOne of the first Bass Strait airliners, the De Havilland Express \"Miss Hobart\", went missing soon after entering service in 1934, only a small amount of wreckage being found on the Victorian coast. A year later, a similar aircraft was lost with all on board off Flinders Island. The cause of both accidents was probably a combination of human error with the known poor design of the aircraft.\n\nDuring the Second World War, several aircraft — mostly RAAF Bristol Beaufort bombers — were lost during exercises in Bass Strait while on training flights out of air bases, mainly RAAF Base East Sale near Sale, Victoria. These accidents were probably caused by the inexperienced crew crashing into the sea while performing low-level bombing practice — similar accidents occurred over land.\n\nIn 1972, a De Havilland Tiger Moth flown by Brenda Hean and Max Price disappeared on a flight from Tasmania to Canberra as part of protests against the flooding of Lake Pedder for a hydroelectricity scheme. It was believed to have crashed at sea somewhere between the East Coast and Flinders Island. Sabotage by pro-development interests was alleged.\n\nThe most famous incident, and the one that has been the inspiration for paranormal explanations, was the Valentich Disappearance in 1978.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56493163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56493163", "title": "Buddhism in Cuba", "text": "Buddhism in Cuba\n\nReligion in Cuba is a guaranteed right, meaning that Buddhism can be practiced in the country. Traditionally, most religious people in Cuba practice Christianity or other Indigenous religions. Some Buddhist figures have traveled to the country in the past, no big problems have arisen to this point. Originally brought by the Chinese immigrants, it is now practiced in communities monitored overseas. The number of practitioners is small.\n"}
{"id": "4124045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4124045", "title": "Ceremonial use of lights", "text": "Ceremonial use of lights\n\nThe ceremonial use of lights is found in the practice of many religions. Candles are extremely common and other forms of light, whether fire or other, are also used.\n\nThe ceremonial use of lights in the Christian Church probably has a double origin: in a very non-natural symbolism, and in the adaptation of certain pagan and Jewish rites and customs of which the symbolic meaning was Christianized.\n\nLight is everywhere the symbol of joy and of life-giving power, as darkness is of death and destruction. Fire is an impressive element in worship has been used in many religions. Fire-worship still has its place in at least two of the great religions of the world. The Parsis adore fire as the visible expression of Ahura Mazda, the eternal principle of light and righteousness; the Brahmans worship it as divine and omniscient. The Hindu festival of Diwali (Diyawali, from diya, light), when temples and houses are illuminated with countless lamps, is held every November to celebrate Lakhshmi, the goddess of prosperity.\n\nIn the ritual of the Jewish temple fire and light played a conspicuous part. In the Holy of Holies was a cloud of light (\"shekinali\"), symbolical of the presence of Yahweh, and before it stood the candlestick with six branches, on each of which and on the central stem was a lamp eternally burning; while in the forecourt was an altar on which the sacred fire was never allowed to go out. Similarly the Jewish synagogues have each their eternal lamp.\n\nThe Greeks and Romans, too, had their sacred fire and their ceremonial lights. In Greece the Lampadedromia or Lampadephoria (torch-race) had its origin in Greek ceremonies, connected with the relighting of the sacred fire. Pausanias mentions the golden lamp made by Callimachus which burned night and day in the sanctuary of Athena Polias on the Acropolis, and tells of a statue of Hermes Agoraios, in the market-place of Pharae in Achaea, before which lamps were lighted. Among the Romans lighted candles and lamps formed part of the cult of the domestic tutelary deities; on all festivals doors were garlanded and lamps lighted. In the Cult of Isis lamps were lighted by day. In the ordinary temples were candelabra, e.g. that in the temple of Apollo Palatinus at Rome, originally taken by Alexander from Thebes, which was in the form of a tree from the branches of which lights hung like fruit. The lamps in the pagan temples were not symbolical, but votive offerings to the gods. Torches and lamps were also carried in religious processions.\n\nThe pagan custom of burying lamps with the dead was to provide the dead with the means of obtaining light in the next world; the lamps were for the most part unlighted. It was of Asiatic origin, traces of it having been observed in Phoenicia and in the Punic colonies, but not in Egypt or Greece. In Europe it was confined to the countries under the domination of Rome.\n\nIn Christianity, from the very first, fire and light are conceived as symbols, if not as visible manifestations, of the divine nature and the divine presence. Christ is the true Light, \"and at his transfiguration the fashion Christian of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering\"; \"when the Holy Ghost descended upon the apostles, there appeared unto them cloven tongues of fire, and it sat upon each of them\"; \"at the conversion of St Paul there shined round him a great light from heaven\"; \"while the glorified Christ is represented as standing in the midst of seven candlesticks ... his head and hairs white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes as a flame of fire\". Christians are children of Light at perpetual war with the powers of darkness.\n\nThere is no evidence of any ceremonial use of lights in Christian worship during its first two centuries. It is recorded, indeed, that on the occasion of St. Paul's preaching at Alexandria in Troas there were many lights in the upper chamber; but this was at night. And the most that can be hazarded is that a specially large number were lighted as a festive illumination, as in modern Church festivals. As to a purely ceremonial use, such early evidence as exists is all the other way. A single sentence of Tertullian sufficiently illuminates Christian practice during the 2nd century. \"On days of rejoicing\", he says, \"we do not shade our door-posts with laurels nor encroach upon the day-light with lamp laurels\" (die lacto non laurels pastes obumbramus nec lucernis diem infringimus). Lactantius, writing early in the 4th century, is even more sarcastic in his references to the heathen practice. \"They kindle lights\", he says, \"as though to one who is in darkness. Can he be thought sane who offers the light of lamps and candles to the Author and Giver of all light? \". This is primarily an attack on votive lights, and does not necessarily exclude their ceremonial use in other ways. There is, indeed, evidence that they were so used before Lactantius wrote. The 34th canon of the Synod of Elvira (305), which was contemporary with him, forbade candles to be lighted in cemeteries during the daytime, which points to an established custom as well as to an objection to it; and in the Roman catacombs lamps have been found of the 2nd and 3rd centuries which seem to have.\n\nLucerna been ceremonial or symbolical. Again, according to the Acta of St Cyprian (died 258), his body was borne to the grave \"praelucentibus cereis\", and Prudentius, in his hymn on the 2nd and martyrdom of St Lawrence, says that in the time of St Laurentius, i.e. the middle of the 3rd century, candles stood in the churches of Rome on golden candelabra. The gift, mentioned by Anastasius, made by Constantine to the Vatican basilica, of a pharum of gold, garnished with 500 dolphins each holding a lamp, to burn before St Peters tomb, points also to a custom well established before Christianity became the state religion.\n\nWhatever previous custom may have been and for the earliest ages it is difficult to determine absolutely because the Christians held their services at night. By the close of the 4th century the ceremonial use of lights had become firmly and universally established in the Church. This is clear, to pass by much other evidence, from the controversy of St Jerome with Vigilantius.\n\nVigilantius, a presbyter of Barcelona, still occupied the position of Tertullian and Lactantius in this matter. \"We see\", he wrote, \"a rite peculiar to the pagans introduced into the churches on pretext of religion, and, while the sun is still shining, a mass of wax tapers lighted. ... A great honor to the blessed martyrs, whom they think to illustrate with contemptible little candles\" (de pilissimis cereolis). Jerome, the most influential theologian of the day, took up the cudgels against Vigilantius, who, in spite of his fatherly admonition, had dared again to open his foul mouth and send forth a filthy stink against the relics of the holy martyrs. \"If candles are lit before their tombs, are these the ensigns of idolatry?\" In his treatise contra Vigilantium he answers the question with much common sense. \"There can be no harm if ignorant and simple people or religious women, light candles in honor of the martyrs. We are not born, but reborn, Christians, and that which when done for idols was detestable is acceptable when done for the martyrs. As in the case of the woman with the precious box of ointment, it is not the gift that merits reward, but the faith that inspires it.\" As for lights in the churches, he adds that in all the churches of the East, whenever the gospel is to be read, lights are lit, though the sun be rising (jam sole rutilante), not in order to disperse the darkness, but as a visible sign of gladness (ad signum ketitiae demonstrandum). Taken in connection with a statement which almost immediately precedes this \"Cereos autem non clara luce accendimus, sicut frustra calumniaris: sed ut noctis tenebras hoc solatio temperemus \", this seems to point to the fact that the ritual use of lights in the church services, so far as already established, arose from the same conservative habit as determined the development of liturgical vestments, i.e. the lights which had been necessary at the nocturnal meetings were retained, after the hours of service had been altered, and invested with a symbolical meaning.\n\nAlready they were used at most of the conspicuous functions of the Church. Paulinus, bishop of Nola (died 431), describes the altar at the eucharist as \"crowned with crowded lights\", and even mentions the \"eternal lamp\". For their use at baptisms we have, among much other evidence, that of Zeno of Verona for the West, and that of Gregory of Nazianzus for the East. Their use at funerals is illustrated by Eusebius's description of the burial of Constantine, and Jerome's account of that of Saint Paula. At ordinations they were used, as is shown by the 6th canon of the Council of Carthage (398), which decrees that the acolyte is to hand to the newly ordained deacon \"ceroferarium cum cereo\". This symbolism was not pagan, i.e. the lamps were not placed in the graves as part of the furniture of the dead; in the Catacombs they are found only in the niches of the galleries and the arcosolia, nor can they have been votive in the sense popularized later. \"Clara coronantur densis altaria lychnis\". \"Continuum scyphus est argenteus aptus ad usum. Sal, ignis et oleum. \"Cum alii Pontifices lampads cereosque proferrent, alii choras psallentium ducerent.\".\n\nAs to the blessing of candles, according to the \"Liber pontificalis\" Pope Zosimus in 417 ordered these to be blessed, and the Gallican and Mozarabic rituals also provided for this ceremony. The Feast of the Purification of the Virgin, known as Candlemas, because on this day the candles for the whole year are blessed, was established according to some authorities by Pope Gelasius I about 492. As to the question of altar lights, however, it must be borne in mind that these were not placed upon the altar, or on a retable behind it, until the 12th century. These were originally the candles carried by the deacons, according to the \"Ordo Romanus\" (i. 8; ii. 5; iii. 7) seven in number, which were set down, either on the steps of the altar, or, later, behind it. In certain of the Eastern Churches to this day, there are no lights on the high altar; the lighted candles stand on a small altar beside it, and at various parts of the service are carried by the lectors or acolytes before the officiating priest or deacon. The crowd of lights described by Paulinus as crowning the altar were either grouped round it or suspended in front of it; they are represented by the sanctuary lamps of the Latin Church and by the crown of lights suspended in front of the altar in. the Greek.\n\nTo trace the gradual elaboration of the symbolism and use of ceremonial lights in the Church, until its full development and systematization in the Middle Ages, would be impossible here. It must suffice to note a few stages in development of the process. The burning of lights before the tombs of martyrs led naturally to their being burned also before relics and lastly before images and pictures. This latter practice, hotly denounced as idolatry during the iconoclastic controversy, was finally established as orthodox by the Second General Council of Nicaea (787), which restored the use of images. A later development, however, by which certain lights themselves came to be regarded as objects of worship and to have other lights burned before them, was condemned as idolatrous by the Synod of Noyon in 1344. The passion for symbolism extracted ever new meanings out of the candles and their use. Early in the 6th century Magnus Felix Ennodius, bishop of Pavia, pointed out the threefold elements of a wax candle (Opusc. ix. and x.), each of which would make it an offering acceptable to God; the rush-wick is the product of pure water, the wax is the offspring of virgin, bees in the flame is sent from heaven.12 Clearly, wax was a symbol of the Blessed Virgin and the holy humanity of Christ. The later Middle Ages developed the idea. Durandus, in his Rationale, interprets the wax as the body of Christ, the wick as his soul, the flame as his divine nature; and the consuming candle as symbolizing his passion and death.\n\nThis may be the Paschal Candle only. In some codices the text runs: \"Per parochias concessit licentiam benedicendi Cereum Paschalem\". In the three variants of the notice of Zosimus given in Duchesnes edition of the \"Liber pontificalis\" (I~86I892) the word cera is, however, alone used. Nor does the text imply that he gave to the suburbican churches a privilege hitherto exercised by the metropolitan church. The passage runs: Hic constituit ut diaconi leva tecta haberent de palleis linostimis per parrochias et ut cera benedicatur, &c. Per parrochias here obviously refers to the head-gear of the deacons, not to the candles.\n\nSee also the \"Peregrinoiio Sylviae\" (386), 86, &c., for the use of lights at Jerusalem, and Isidore of Seville for the usage in the West. That even in the 7th century the blessing of candles was by no means universal is proved by the 9th canon of the Council of Toledo (671):\"De benedicendo cereo et lucerna in privilegiis Paschae\". This canon states that candles and lamps are not blessed in some churches, and that inquiries have been made why we do it. In reply, the council decides that it should be done to celebrate the mystery of Christ's resurrection. See Isidore of Seville, Conc., in Migne, Pat, tat. lxxxiv. 369.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite, there is a large amount of ceremonial use of light.\n\nThe most important usage is the reception of the Holy Fire at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem on the afternoon of Holy Saturday. This flame is often taken by the faithful to locations all over the world.\n\nWhen a new temple (church building) is consecrated the bishop kindles a flame in the sanctuary which traditionally should burn perpetually from that time forward. This sanctuary lamp is usually an oil lamp located either on or above the Holy Table (altar). In addition, in the Eastern Orthodox Church there must be candles on the Holy Table during the celebration of the Divine Liturgy. In some places this takes the form of a pair of white candles, in others, it may be a pair of five-branch candlesticks. There is also traditionally a seven-branch candlestick on or behind the Holy Table, recalling the one mandated in the Old Testament Tabernacle and the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nAround the temple, there are a number of oil lamps burning in front of the icons, especially on the iconostasis. Additionally, the faithful will offer beeswax candles in candle stands in front of important icons. The faithful offer candles as they pray for both the living and the departed. It is customary during funerals and memorial services for everyone to stand holding lit candles. Often everyone will either extinguish their candles or put them in a candle stand at a certain point near the end of the memorial service to indicate that at some point, everyone will have to surrender their soul to God.\n\nThe reading from the Gospel Book must always be accompanied by lighted candles, as a sign that Christ is the Light which enlightens all (). When the priest and deacon cense the temple, the deacon will walk with a lighted candle. During processions, and in some places during the liturgical entrances, either candles or lanterns are carried by altar servers. On certain feast days, the clergy, and sometimes all of the faithful, will stand holding candles for certain solemn moments during the service. This is especially so during Holy Week during the reading of the 12 Passion Gospels on Great Friday, and the Lamentations around the epitaphios on Great Saturday.\n\nCertain moments during the All Night Vigil will be accentuated by the lighting or extinguishing of lamps or candles. The Polyeleos is an important moment in the service when all of the lamps and candles in the church should be illuminated.\n\nWhenever the bishop celebrates the divine services, he will bless with a pair of candlesticks known as dikirion and trikirion, holding two and three candles, respectively.\n\nThe faithful will often keep a lamp burning perpetually in their icon corner. In the Russian Orthodox Church, it is customary to try to preserve the flame from the service of the 12 Passion Gospels and bring it home to bless their house: there is a custom of using the flame from this candle to mark a cross on the lintel of one's doorway before entering after the service, and of then using the flame to re-kindle the lamp in the icon corner.\n\nDuring the Paschal Vigil, after the Midnight Office, all of the candles and lamps in the temple are extinguished, with the exception of the sanctuary lamp behind the iconostasis, and all wait in silence and darkness. (In Orthodox churches, when possible, the Holy Fire arrives from the Holy Sepulchre during Holy Saturday afternoon and it is used to light anew the flame in the sanctuary lamp.) At the stroke of midnight, the priest censes around the Holy Table, and lights his candle from the sanctuary lamp. Then the Holy Doors are opened and all the people light their candles from the priest's candle. Then, all the clergy and the people exit the church and go in procession three times around it holding lighted candles and singing a hymn of the resurrection.\n\nDuring the Paschal Vigil, and throughout Bright Week, the priest will hold a special paschal candle—in the Greek tradition a single candle, in the Slavic tradition a triple candlestick—at the beginning of the service, whenever he senses, and at other special moments during the service. In the Slavic tradition, the deacon also carries a special paschal candle which he holds at the beginning, whenever he senses, and whenever he chants an ektenia (litany).\n\nIn the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, it is customary to light bonfires on the Feast of Timkat (Epiphany).\n\nIn the Latin Church or Roman Catholic Church, the use of ceremonial lights falls under three heads. (1) They may be symbolical of the light of Gods presence, of Christ as Light Roman of Light, or of the children of Light in conflict with Catholic the powers of darkness; they may even be no more than expressions of joy on the occasion of great festivals. (2) They may be votive, i.e. offered as an act of worship (latria) to God. (3) They are, in virtue of their benediction by the Church, sacramental id, i.e. efficacious for the good of men's souls and bodies, and for the confusion of the powers of darkness. With one or more of these implications, they are employed in all the public functions of the Church. At the consecration of a church twelve lights are placed around the walls at the twelve spots. Dedication where these are anointed by the bishop with holy oil, of a and on every anniversary these are relighted; at the church, dedication of an altar tapers are lighted and censed at each place where the table is anointed (Pontificale Rom. p. ii. De ecci. dedicat. seu consecrat.).\n\nAt every liturgical service, and especially at Mass and at choir services, there must be at least two lighted tapers on the altar, as symbols of the presence at Mass of God and tributes of adoration. For the Mass the rule is that there are six lights at High Mass, four at missa cantata, and two at private masses. At a Pontifical High Mass (i.e. when the bishop celebrates) the lights are seven, because seven golden candlesticks surround the risen Saviour, the chief bishop of the Church (see Rev. i. 12). At most pontifical functions, moreover, the bishop as the representative of Christ is preceded by an acolyte with a burning candle (bugia) on a candlestick. The Ceremoniale Episcoporum (i. 12) further orders that a burning lamp is to hang at all times before each altar, three in front of the high altar, and five before the reserved Sacrament, as symbols of the eternal Presence. In practice, however, it is usual to have only one Altar lamp lighted before the tabernacle in which the Host is reserved. The special symbol of the real presence of Christ is the Sanctus candle, which is lighted at the moment of consecration and kept burning until the communion. The same symbolism is intended by the lighted tapers which must accompany the Host whenever it is carried in procession, or to the sick and dying.\n\nAs symbols of light and joy, a candle is held on each side of the deacon when reading the Gospel at Mass; and the same symbolism underlies the multiplication of lights on festivals, their number varying with the importance of the occasion. As to the number of these latter no rule is laid down. They differ from liturgical lights in that, whereas these must be tapers of pure beeswax or lamps fed with pure olive oil (except by special dispensation under Certain circumstances), those used merely to add splendour to the celebration may be of any material; the only exception being, that in the decoration of the altar, gas-lights are forbidden.\n\nIn general, the ceremonial use of lights in the Roman Catholic Church is conceived as a dramatic representation in fire of the life of Christ and of the whole scheme of salvation. On Easter Eve the new fire, symbol of the light of the newly risen Christ, is produced, and from this are kindled all the lights used throughout the Christian year until, in the gathering darkness (tenebrae) of the Passion, they are gradually extinguished. This quenching of the light of the world is symbolized at the service of Tenebrae in Holy Week by the placing on a stand before the altar of thirteen lighted tapers arranged pyramidally, the rest of the church being in darkness. The penitential psalms are sung, and at the end of each a candle is extinguished. When only the central one is left it is taken down and carried behind the altar, thus symbolizing the nocturnal darkness, so our hearts are illumined by invisible fire, &c. (Missale Rom.). In the form for the blessing of candles extra diem Purificationis B. Mariae Virg. the virtue of the consecrated candles in discomfiting demons is specially brought out: that in whatever places they may be lighted, or placed, the princes of darkness may depart, and tremble, and may fly terror-stricken with all their ministers from those habitations, nor presume further to disquiet and molest those who serve thee, Almighty God (Rituale Rom.)\n\nAltar candlesticks consist of five parts: the foot, stem, knob in the centre, bowl to catch the drippings, and pricket (a sharp point on which the candle is fixed). It is permissible to use a long tube, pointed to imitate a candle, in which a small taper is forced to the top by a spring (Cong. Rit., tIth May I&78).\n\nOn Easter Eve new fire is made with a flint and steel, and blessed; from this three candles are lighted, the \"lumen Christi\", and from these again the Paschal Candle. This is the symbol of the risen and victorious Christ, and burns at every solemn service until Ascension Day, when it is extinguished and removed after the reading of the Gospel at High Mass. This, of course, symbolizes the Ascension; but meanwhile the other lamps in the church have received their light from the Paschal Candle, and so symbolize throughout the year the continued presence of the light of Christ.\n\nAt the consecration of the baptismal water the burning Paschal Candle is dipped into the font so that the power of the Holy Ghost may descend into it and make it an effective instrument of regeneration. This is the symbol of baptism as rebirth as children of Light. Lighted tapers are also placed in the hands of the newly baptized, or of their god-parents, with the admonition to preserve their baptism inviolate, so that they may go to meet the Lord when he comes to the wedding. Thus, too, as children of Light, candidates for ordination and novices about to take the vows carry lights. when they come before the bishop; and the same idea 17, CEo. underlies the custom of carrying lights at weddings, at the first communion, and by priests going to their first mass, though none of these are liturgically prescribed. Finally, lights are placed around the bodies of the dead and carried beside them to the grave, partly as symbols that they still live in the light of Christ, partly to frighten away the powers of darkness.\n\nDuring the funeral service, the Paschal Candle is placed, burning, near the coffin, as a reminder of the deceased's baptismal vows and hope of eternal life and salvation brought about by the death and resurrection of Jesus, and of faith in the resurrection of the dead.\n\nConversely, the extinction of lights is part of the ceremony of excommunication (Pontificale Rom. pars iii.). Regino, abbot of Prum, describes the ceremony as it was carried out in his day, when its terrors were yet unabated (De eccles. disciplina, Excom ii. 409). Twelve priests should stand about the bishop, holding in their hands lighted torches, which at the conclusion of the anathema or excommunication they should cast down and trample under foot. When the excommunication is removed, the symbol of reconciliation is the handing to the penitent of a burning taper.\n\nIn the Church of England the practice has been less consistent. The first Book of Common Prayer directed two lights to be placed on the altar. This direction was omitted in the second Prayer-book; but the Ornaments Rubric of Queen Elizabeth's Prayer-book again made them obligatory. The question of how far this did so is a much-disputed one and is connected with the whole problem of the meaning and scope of the rubric. Uncertainty reigns with regard to the actual usage of the Church of England from the Reformation onwards. Lighted candles certainly continued to burn in Queen Elizabeth's chapel, to the scandal of Protestant zealots. They also seem to have been retained in certain cathedral and collegiate churches. There is, however, no mention of ceremonial candles in the detailed account of the services of the Church of England given by William Harrison (Description of England, 1570). They seem never to have been illegal under the Acts of Uniformity. The use of wax lights and tapers formed one of the indictments brought by Peter Smart, a Puritan prebendary of Durham, against Dr. Burgoyne, John Cosin and others for setting up superstitious ceremonies in the cathedral contrary to the Act of Uniformity. The indictments were dismissed in 1628 by Sir James Whitelocke, chief justice of Chester and a judge of the Kings Bench, and in 1629 by Sir Henry Yelverton, a judge of Common Pleas and himself a strong Puritan.\n\nThe use of ceremonial lights was among the indictments in the impeachment of Laud and other bishops by the House of Commons, but these were not based on the Act of Uniformity. From the Restoration onwards the use of ceremonial lights, though far from universal, was usual again in cathedrals and collegiate churches.\n\nIt was not, however, until the Oxford Movement of the 19th century that their use was widely extended in parish churches. The growing custom met with some opposition; the law was appealed to, and in 1872 the Privy Council declared altar lights to be illegal (Martin v. Mackonochie). This judgment, founded as was afterwards admitted on insufficient knowledge, produced no effect. In the absence of any authoritative negative pronouncement, churches returned to practically the whole ceremonial use of lights as practised in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe matter was again raised in the case of Read and others v. the Bishop of Lincoln, one of the counts of the indictment being that the bishop had, during the celebration of Holy Communion, allowed two candles to be alight on a shelf or retable behind the communion table when they were not necessary for giving light. The Archbishop of Canterbury, in whose court the case was heard (1889), decided that the mere presence of two candles on the table, burning during the service but lit before it began, was lawful under the first Prayer-Book of Edward VI. and had never been made unlawful. On the case being appealed to the Privy Council, this particular indictment was dismissed on the ground that the vicar, not the bishop, was responsible for the presence of the lights.\n\nThe custom of placing lighted candles around the bodies of the dead, especially when lying in state, has never wholly died out in the Anglican communion. In the 18th century, moreover, it was still customary in England to accompany a funeral with lighted tapers. A contemporary illustration shows a funeral cortege preceded and accompanied by boys, each carrying four lighted candles in a branched candlestick. The usage in this respect in Anglo-Catholic churches is a revival of pre-Reformation ceremonial as is found in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn the Church of Ireland, a branch of Anglicanism that is both Catholic and Apostolic in origins and in the closest historical and doctrinal communion with the younger Church of England, but with a more generally robust middle- to low-church tradition in ritual, the use of candles and lanterns of all kinds is canonically forbidden except for the specific purpose of \"giving light\" during services. This conforms to that Church's similar abjuring of, for example, incense, all but rather simple clerical vestments, mitres, eucharistic wafers, the Reserved Sacrament and the elevation of the sacred elements in the Eucharist.\n\nAs a result of the Reformation, the use of ceremonial lights was either greatly modified, or totally abolished in the Protestant Churches. In the Reformed (Calvinistic) Churches altar lights were, with the rest, done away with entirely as popish and superstitious. In the Lutheran Churches they were retained, and in Evangelical Germany have even survived most of the other medieval rites and ceremonies (e.g. the use of vestments) which were not abolished at the Reformation itself. The custom of placing lighted candles around the bodies of the dead is still practised by some Protestants.\n\nIn almost all Hindu homes, lamps are lit daily, sometimes before an altar. In some houses, oil lamps or candles are lit at dawn, in some houses they are lit at both dawn and dusk, and in a few, lamps are maintained continuously.\n\nA diya, or clay lamp, is frequently used in Hindu celebrations and forms an integral part of many social rites. It is a strong symbol of enlightenment, hope, and prosperity. Diwali is the festival of lights celebrated by followers of dharmic religions.\n\nIn its traditional and simplest form, the diya is made from baked clay or terracotta and holds oil or ghee that is lit via a cotton wick.\n\nTraditional diyas have now evolved into a form wherein waxes are used as replacements for oils.\n\nLamps are lit in Sikhism on Diwali, the festival of light, as well as being lit everyday by followers of Dharmic religions.\n\nCandles are used in the religious ceremonies of many faiths.\n\n\nCandles are a traditional part of Buddhist ritual observances. Along with incense and flowers, candles (or some other type of light source, such as butter lamps) are placed before Buddhist shrines or images of the Buddha as a show of respect. They may also be accompanied by offerings of food and drink. The light of the candles is described as representing the light of the Buddha's teachings, echoing the metaphor of light used in various Buddhist scriptures. See \"Ubon Ratchathani Candle Festival\" for an example of a Buddhist festival that makes extensive use of candles.\n\n\nIn Christianity the candle is commonly used in worship both for decoration and ambiance, and as a symbol that represents the light of God or, specifically, the light of Christ. The altar candle is often placed on the altar, usually in pairs. Candles are also carried in processions, especially to either side of the processional cross. A votive candle or taper may be lit as an accompaniment to prayer.\n\nCandles are lit by worshippers in front of icons in Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Catholic and other churches. This is referred to as \"offering a candle\", because the candle is a symbol of the worshiper offering himself or herself to God (and proceeds from the sale of the candle are offerings by the faithful which go to help the church). Among the Eastern Orthodox, there are times when the entire congregation stands holding lit tapers, such as during the reading of the Matins Gospels on Good Friday, the Lamentations on Holy Saturday, funerals, Memorial services, etc. There are also special candles that are used by Orthodox clergy. A bishop will bless using dikirion and trikirion (candlesticks holding two and three candles, respectively). At Pascha (Easter) the priest holds a special Paschal trikirion, and the deacon holds a Paschal candle. The priest will also bless the faithful with a single candle during the Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts (celebrated only during Great Lent).\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church a liturgical candle must be made of at least 51% beeswax, the remainder may be paraffin or some other substance. In the Orthodox Church, the tapers offered should be 100% beeswax, unless poverty makes this impossible. The stumps from burned candles can be saved and melted down to make new candles.\n\nIn some Western churches, a special candle known as the \"Paschal candle\", specifically represents the Resurrected Christ and is lit only at Easter, funerals, and baptisms. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, during Bright Week (Easter Week) the priest holds a special Paschal trikirion (triple candlestick) and the deacon holds a large candle during all of the services at which they serve.\n\nIn Sweden (and other Scandinavian countries), St. Lucia Day is celebrated on December 13 with the crowning of a young girl with a wreath of candles.\n\nIn many Western churches, a group of candles arranged in a ring, known as an Advent wreath, are used in church services in the Sundays leading up to Christmas. In households in some Western European countries, a single candle marked with the days of December is gradually burned down, day by day, to mark the passing of the days of Advent; this is called an Advent candle.\n\n\nIn Judaism, a pair of Shabbat candles are lit on Friday evening prior to the start of the weekly Sabbath celebration. On Saturday night, a special candle with several wicks and usually braided is lit for the \"Havdalah\" ritual marking the end of the Sabbath and the beginning of the new week.\n\nThe eight-day holiday of Hanukkah, also known as the Festival of Lights, is celebrated by lighting a special Hanukkiyah each night to commemorate the rededication of the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nA memorial candle is lit on the Yahrtzeit, or anniversary of the death of a loved one according to the Hebrew calendar. The candle burns for 24 hours. A memorial candle is also lit on Yom HaShoah, a day of remembrance for all those who perished in The Holocaust.\n\nA seven-day memorial candle is lit following the funeral of a spouse, parent, sibling or child.\n\nCandles are also lit prior to the onset of the Three Festivals (Sukkot, Passover and Shavuot) and the eve of Yom Kippur, and Rosh Hashana.\n\nA candle is also used on the night before Passover in a symbolic search for chametz, or leavened bread, which is not eaten on Passover.\n\nThe Candle is also used in celebrations of Kwanzaa, which is an African American holiday which runs from December 26 to January 1. A Kinara is used to hold candles in these celebrations. It holds seven candles; three red candles to represent African American struggles, one black candle to represent the African American people and three green candles to represent African American hopes.\n\nFor some Humanists the candle is used as a symbol of the light of reason or rationality. The Humanist festival of HumanLight often features a candle-lighting ceremony.\n\nDuring satanic rituals black candles are the only light source, except for one white candle on the altar. The dim lighting is used to create an air of mystique and the color of the candles has symbolic meaning.\n\nA common element of worship in many Unitarian Universalism churches and fellowships is the lighting of candles of joy and concern. Here members of the congregation may come up to the altar or chancel, light a votive or other candle, and share a personal concern or joy with the community. Unitarian Universalism also incorporates candle-lighting ceremonies from other spiritual traditions, from which they draw inspiration. A flaming chalice is the most widely used symbol of Unitarianism and Unitarian Universalism, and is, in reality, usually a candle, not an actual chalice of burning oil.\n\nIn Wicca and related forms of Paganism, the candle is frequently used on the altar to represent the presence of the God and Goddess, and in the four corners of a ritual circle to represent the presence of the four classical elements: Fire, Earth, Air, and Water. When used in this manner, lighting and extinguishing the candle marks the opening and closing of the ritual. The candle is also frequently used for magical meditative purposes. Altar candles are traditionally thick tall candles or long tapers which are available in many colors. In Wicca, the candles that are used come in a variety of colors, depending on the nature of the ritual or custom at hand. Some Wiccans may use red, green, blue, yellow and white or purple candles to represent the elements.\n\nUsing candles in magic based on Wiccan beliefs is known as \"sympathetic magick\" in that it is believed the candle represents the outcome the person is wanting. It is a \"like attracts like\" form of magical practice. For example, if a person is looking for a job or needs extra income a green candle (the color of American dollars) would be used. For romance, a red candle would be used (red is a universal color of love and hearts). There is an additional belief that the smoke from the candles will take the prayer requests, desires, or wishes up to the gods.\n\n\nIn raqs sharqi, candles are used as a complementary element in some dance styles. The candles can be held either on the dancer's hand or above her head, depending on what the choreography demands.\n"}
{"id": "226808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226808", "title": "Chinese Buddhism", "text": "Chinese Buddhism\n\nChinese Buddhism or Han Buddhism has shaped Chinese culture in a wide variety of areas including art, politics, literature, philosophy, medicine, and material culture.\n\nThe translation of a large body of Indian Buddhist scriptures into Chinese and the inclusion of these translations together with works composed in China into a printed canon had far-reaching implications for the dissemination of Buddhism throughout the Chinese cultural sphere, including Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Vietnam. Chinese Buddhism is also marked by the interaction between Indian religions, Chinese religion, and Taoism.\n\nVarious legends tell of the presence of Buddhism in Chinese soil in very ancient times. Nonetheless, the scholarly consensus is that Buddhism first came to China in the first century CE during the Han dynasty, through missionaries from India.\n\nGenerations of scholars have debated whether Buddhist missionaries first reached Han China via the maritime or overland routes of the Silk Road. The maritime route hypothesis, favored by Liang Qichao and Paul Pelliot, proposed that Buddhism was originally practiced in southern China, the Yangtze River and Huai River region, where prince Ying of Chu (present day Jiangsu) was jointly worshipping the Yellow Emperor, Laozi, and Buddha in 65 CE. The overland route hypothesis, favored by Tang Yongtong, proposed that Buddhism disseminated through Central Asia – in particular, the Kushan Empire, which was often known in ancient Chinese sources as \"Da Yuezhi\" (\"Great Yuezhi\"), after the founding tribe. According to this hypothesis, Buddhism was first practiced in China in the Western Regions and the Han capital Luoyang (present day Henan), where Emperor Ming of Han established the White Horse Temple in 68 CE.\n\nIn 2004, Rong Xinjiang, a history professor at Peking University, reexamined the overland and maritime hypotheses through a multi-disciplinary review of recent discoveries and research, including the Gandhāran Buddhist Texts, and concluded:\nA number of popular accounts in historical Chinese literature have led to the popularity of certain legends regarding the introduction of Buddhism into China. According to the most popular one, Emperor Ming of Han (28–75 CE) precipitated the introduction of Buddhist teachings into China. The (early 3rd to early 5th century) \"Mouzi Lihuolun\" first records this legend:\n\nThe emperor then sent an envoy to Tianzhu (Southern India) to inquire about the teachings of the Buddha. Buddhist scriptures were said to have been returned to China on the backs of white horses, after which White Horse Temple was named. Two Indian monks also returned with them, named Dharmaratna and Kaśyapa Mātaṅga.\n\nAn 8th-century Chinese fresco at Mogao Caves near Dunhuang in Gansu portrays Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE) worshiping statues of a golden man; \"golden men brought in 121 BCE by a great Han general in his campaigns against the nomads\". However, neither the \"Shiji\" nor \"Book of Han\" histories of Emperor Wu mentions a golden Buddhist statue (compare Emperor Ming above).\n\nThe first documented translation of Buddhist scriptures from various Indian languages into Chinese occurs in 148 CE with the arrival of the Parthian prince-turned-monk An Shigao (Ch. 安世高). He worked to establish Buddhist temples in Luoyang and organized the translation of Buddhist scriptures into Chinese, testifying to the beginning of a wave of Central Asian Buddhist proselytism that was to last several centuries. An Shigao translated Buddhist texts on basic doctrines, meditation, and abhidharma. An Xuan (Ch. 安玄), a Parthian layman who worked alongside An Shigao, also translated an early Mahāyāna Buddhist text on the bodhisattva path.\n\nMahāyāna Buddhism was first widely propagated in China by the Kushan monk Lokakṣema (Ch. 支婁迦讖, active c. 164–186 CE), who came from the ancient Buddhist kingdom of Gandhāra. Lokakṣema translated important Mahāyāna sūtras such as the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\", as well as rare, early Mahāyāna sūtras on topics such as samādhi, and meditation on the buddha Akṣobhya. These translations from Lokakṣema continue to give insight into the early period of Mahāyāna Buddhism. This corpus of texts often includes emphasizes ascetic practices and forest dwelling, and absorption in states of meditative concentration:\n\nDuring the early period of Chinese Buddhism, the Indian early Buddhist schools recognized as important, and whose texts were studied, were the Dharmaguptakas, Mahīśāsakas, Kāśyapīyas, Sarvāstivādins, and the Mahāsāṃghikas.\n\nThe Dharmaguptakas made more efforts than any other sect to spread Buddhism outside India, to areas such as Afghanistan, Central Asia, and China, and they had great success in doing so. Therefore, most countries which adopted Buddhism from China, also adopted the Dharmaguptaka vinaya and ordination lineage for bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs. According to A.K. Warder, in some ways in those East Asian countries, the Dharmaguptaka sect can be considered to have survived to the present. Warder further writes that the Dharmaguptakas can be credited with effectively establishing Chinese Buddhism during the early period:\n\nInitially, Buddhism in China faced a number of difficulties in becoming established. The concept of monasticism and the aversion to social affairs seemed to contradict the long-established norms and standards established in Chinese society. Some even declared that Buddhism was harmful to the authority of the state, that Buddhist monasteries contributed nothing to the economic prosperity of China, that Buddhism was barbaric and undeserving of Chinese cultural traditions. However, Buddhism was often associated with Daoism in its ascetic meditative tradition, and for this reason a concept-matching system was used by some early Indian translators, to adapt native Buddhist ideas onto Daoist ideas and terminology.\n\nBuddhism appealed to Chinese intellectuals and elites and the development of gentry Buddhism was sought as an alternative to Confucianism and Daoism, since Buddhism's emphasis on morality and ritual appealed to Confucianists and the desire to cultivate inner wisdom appealed to Daoists. Gentry Buddhism was a medium of introduction for the beginning of Buddhism in China, it gained imperial and courtly support. By the early 5th century Buddhism was established in south China.\nDuring this time, Indian monks continued to travel along the Silk Road to teach Buddhism, and translation work was primarily done by foreign monks rather than Chinese.\n\nWhen the famous monk Kumārajīva was captured during the Chinese conquest of the Buddhist kingdom of Kucha, he was imprisoned for many years. When he was released in AD 401, he immediately took a high place in Chinese Buddhism and was appraised as a great master from the West. He was especially valued by Emperor Yao Xing of the state of Later Qin, who gave him an honorific title and treated him like a god. Kumārajīva revolutionized Chinese Buddhism with his high quality translations (from AD 402–413), which are still praised for their flowing smoothness, clarity of meaning, subtlety, and literary skill. Due to the efforts of Kumārajīva, Buddhism in China became not only recognized for its practice methods, but also as high philosophy and religion. The arrival of Kumārajīva also set a standard for Chinese translations of Buddhist texts, effectively doing away with previous concept-matching systems.\n\nThe translations of Kumārajīva have often remained more popular than those of other translators. Among the most well-known are his translations of the \"Diamond Sutra\", the \"Amitabha Sutra\", the \"Lotus Sutra\", the \"Vimalakīrti Nirdeśa Sūtra\", the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\", and the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\".\n\nAround the time of Kumārajīva, the four major Sanskrit āgamas were also translated into Chinese. Each of the āgamas was translated independently by a different Indian monk. These āgamas comprise the only other complete surviving Sūtra Piṭaka, which is generally comparable to the Pali Sutta Pitaka of Theravada Buddhism. The teachings of the Sūtra Piṭaka are usually considered to be one of the earliest teachings on Buddhism and a core text of the Early Buddhist Schools in China. It is noteworthy that before the modern period, these āgama were seldom if ever used by Buddhist communities, due to their Hīnayāna attribution, as Chinese Buddhism was already avowedly Mahāyāna in persuasion.\n\nDue to the wide proliferation of Buddhist texts available in Chinese and the large number of foreign monks who came to teach Buddhism in China, much like new branches growing from a main tree trunk, various specific focus traditions emerged. Among the most influential of these was the practice of Pure Land Buddhism established by Hui Yuan, which focused on Amitābha Buddha and his western pure land of Sukhāvatī. Other early traditions were the Tiantai, Huayan and the Vinaya school. Such schools were based upon the primacy of the \"Lotus Sūtra\", the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\", and the \"Dharmaguptaka Vinaya\", respectively, along with supplementary sūtras and commentaries. The Tiantai founder Zhiyi wrote several works that became important and widely read meditation manuals in China such as the \"Concise samatha-vipasyana\", and the \"Great samatha-vipasyana.\"\n\nIn the 5th century, the Chán (Zen) teachings began in China, traditionally attributed to the Buddhist monk Bodhidharma, a legendary figure. The school heavily utilized the principles found in the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\", a sūtra utilizing the teachings of Yogācāra and those of Tathāgatagarbha, and which teaches the One Vehicle (Skt. Ekayāna) to buddhahood. In the early years, the teachings of Chán were therefore referred to as the \"One Vehicle School.\" The earliest masters of the Chán school were called \"Laṅkāvatāra Masters\", for their mastery of practice according to the principles of the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\".\n\nThe principal teachings of Chán were later often known for the use of so-called \"encounter stories\" and koans, and the teaching methods used in them. Nan Huai-Chin identifies the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" and the \"Diamond Sūtra\" (\"Vajracchedikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\") as the principle texts of the Chán school, and summarizes the principles succinctly: \n\nDuring the early Tang dynasty, between 629 and 645, the monk Xuanzang journeyed to India and visited over one hundred kingdoms, and wrote extensive and detailed reports of his findings, which have subsequently become important for the study of India during this period. During his travels he visited holy sites, learned the lore of his faith, and studied with many famous Buddhist masters, especially at the famous center of Buddhist learning at Nālanda University. When he returned, he brought with him some 657 Sanskrit texts. Xuanzang also returned with relics, statues, and Buddhist paraphernalia loaded onto twenty-two horses. With the emperor's support, he set up a large translation bureau in Chang'an (present-day Xi'an), drawing students and collaborators from all over East Asia. He is credited with the translation of some 1,330 fascicles of scriptures into Chinese. His strongest personal interest in Buddhism was in the field of Yogācāra, or \"Consciousness-only\".\n\nThe force of his own study, translation and commentary of the texts of these traditions initiated the development of the Faxiang school in East Asia. Although the school itself did not thrive for a long time, its theories regarding perception, consciousness, karma, rebirth, etc. found their way into the doctrines of other more successful schools. Xuanzang's closest and most eminent student was Kuiji who became recognized as the first patriarch of the Faxiang school. Xuanzang's logic, as described by Kuiji, was often misunderstood by scholars of Chinese Buddhism because they lack the necessary background in Indian logic. Another important disciple was the Korean monk Woncheuk.\n\nXuanzang's translations were especially important for the transmission of Indian texts related to the Yogācāra school. He translated central Yogācāra texts such as the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" and the \"Yogācārabhūmi Śāstra\", as well as important texts such as the \"Mahāprajñāpāramitā Sūtra\" and the \"Bhaiṣajyaguruvaidūryaprabharāja Sūtra\" (Medicine Buddha Sūtra). He is credited with writing or compiling the \"Cheng Weishi Lun\" (\"Vijñaptimātratāsiddhi Śāstra\") as composed from multiple commentaries on Vasubandhu's \"Triṃśikā-vijñaptimātratā\". His translation of the \"Heart Sūtra\" became and remains the standard in all East Asian Buddhist sects. The proliferation of these texts expanded the Chinese Buddhist canon significantly with high quality translations of some of the most important Indian Buddhist texts.\n\nThe popularization of Buddhism in this period is evident in the many scripture-filled caves and structures surviving from this period. The Mogao Caves near Dunhuang in Gansu province, the Longmen Grottoes near Luoyang in Henan and the Yungang Grottoes near Datong in Shanxi are the most renowned examples from the Northern, Sui and Tang Dynasties. The Leshan Giant Buddha, carved out of a hillside in the 8th century during the Tang Dynasty and looking down on the confluence of three rivers, is still the largest stone Buddha statue in the world.\n\nMonks and pious laymen spread Buddhist concepts through story-telling and preaching from sutra texts. These oral presentations were written down as bianwen (transformation stories) which influenced the writing of fiction by their new ways of telling stories combining prose and poetry. Popular legends in this style included Mulian Rescues His Mother, in which a monk descends into hell in a show of filial piety.\n\nMaking duplications of Buddhist texts was considered to bring meritorious karma. Printing from individually carved wooden blocks and from clay or metal movable type proved much more efficient than hand copying and eventually eclipsed it. The \"Diamond Sūtra\" (\"Vajracchedikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\") of 868 CE, a Buddhist scripture discovered in 1907 inside the Mogao Caves, is the first dated example of block printing.\n\nThe Kaiyuan's Three Great Enlightened Masters, Śubhakarasiṃha, Vajrabodhi, and Amoghavajra, established Esoteric Buddhism in China from AD 716 to 720 during the reign of emperor Xuanzong. They came to Daxing Shansi (大兴善寺, \"Great Propagating Goodness Temple\"), which was the predecessor of Temple of the Great Enlightener Mahavairocana. Daxing Shansi was established in the ancient capital Chang'an, today's Xi'an, and became one of the four great centers of scripture translation supported by the imperial court. They had translated many Buddhist scriptures, sutra and tantra, from Sanskrit to Chinese. They had also assimilated the prevailing teachings of China: Daoism and Confucianism, with Buddhism, and had further evolved the practice of the Esoteric school.\n\nThey brought to the Chinese a mysterious, dynamic, and magical teaching, which included mantra formula and detailed rituals to protect a person or an empire, to affect a person's fate after death, and, particularly popular, to bring rain in times of drought. It is not surprising, then, that all three masters were well received by the emperor Tang Xuanzong, and their teachings were quickly taken up at the Tang court and among the elite. Mantrayana altars were installed in temples in the capital, and by the time of emperor Tang Daizong (r. 762–779) its influence among the upper classes outstripped that of Daoism. However, relations between Amoghavajra and Daizong were especially good. In life the emperor favored Amoghavajra with titles and gifts, and when the master died in 774, he honored his memory with a stupa, or funeral monument. The Esoteric Buddhist lineage of China (and almost all of Buddhism in China at the time) was nearly wiped out by the Emperor Tang Wuzong, leading to the Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution. Historically, the Hanmi Chinese Esoteric School of Buddhism was also thought to have been lost when Emperor Tang Wuzong banned the teaching. Huiguo, the last known disciple of Amoghavajra, left China with Kukai traveling to Japan to establish the Japanese Esoteric school of Buddhism, later known as Shingon.\n\nA disciple of Amoghavajra, Huisu, secretly continued the lineage in China and has been passed on through one master per generation. In 1989 the 48th Maha-Acharya Master Huiling of the Chinese Esoteric School passed the teaching to the 49th Lineage Bearer Master Yu Tian Jian who revived the school.\n\nThe Esoteric Buddhist lineages transmitted to Japan under the auspices of the monks Kūkai and Saicho, later formulated the teachings transmitted to them to create the Shingon sect and the Tendai sect.\n\nThere were several components that led to opposition of Buddhism. One factor is the foreign origins of Buddhism, unlike Daoism and Confucianism. Han Yu wrote, \"Buddha was a man of the barbarians who did not speak the language of China and wore clothes of a different fashion. His sayings did not concern the ways of our ancient kings, nor did his manner of dress conform to their laws. He understood neither the duties that bind sovereign and subject, nor the affections of father and son.\"\n\nOther components included the Buddhists' withdrawal from society, since the Chinese believed that Chinese people should be involved with family life. Wealth, tax-exemption status and power of the Buddhist temples and monasteries also annoyed many critics.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, persecution came during the reign of Emperor Wuzong in the Tang Dynasty. Wuzong was said to hate the sight of Buddhist monks, who he thought were tax-evaders. In 845, he ordered the destruction of 4,600 Buddhist monasteries and 40,000 temples. More than 400,000 Buddhist monks and nuns then became peasants liable to the Two Taxes (grain and cloth). Wuzong cited that Buddhism was an alien religion, which is the reason he also persecuted the Christians in China. David Graeber argues that Buddhist institutions had accumulated so much precious metals which the government needed to secure the money supply. Ancient Chinese Buddhism never fully recovered from the persecution.\n\nThe Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period () was an era of political upheaval in China, between the fall of the Tang Dynasty and the founding of the Song Dynasty. During this period, five dynasties quickly succeeded one another in the north, and more than 12 independent states were established, mainly in the south. However, only ten are traditionally listed, hence the era's name, \"Ten Kingdoms\". Some historians, such as Bo Yang, count eleven, including Yan and Qi, but not Northern Han, viewing it as simply a continuation of Later Han. This era also led to the founding of the Liao Dynasty.\n\nAfter the fall of the Tang Dynasty, China was without effective central control during the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period. China was divided into several autonomous regions. Support for Buddhism was limited to a few areas. The Hua-yen and T'ien-t'ai schools suffered from the changing circumstances, since they had depended on imperial support. The collapse of T'ang society also deprived the aristocratic classes of wealth and influence, which meant a further drawback for Buddhism. Shenxiu's Northern Chán School and Henshui's Southern Chán School didn't survive the changing circumstances. Nevertheless, Chán emerged as the dominant stream within Chinese Buddhism, but with various schools developing various emphasises in their teachings, due to the regional orientation of the period. The Fayan school, named after Fa-yen Wen-i (885–958) became the dominant school in the southern kingdoms of Nan-T'ang (Jiangxi, Chiang-hsi) and Wuyue (Che-chiang).\n\nThe Song Dynasty is divided into two distinct periods: the Northern Song and Southern Song. During the Northern Song (, 960–1127), the Song capital was in the northern city of Bianjing (now Kaifeng) and the dynasty controlled most of inner China. The Southern Song (, 1127–1279) refers to the period after the Song lost control of northern China to the Jin dynasty. During this time, the Song court retreated south of the Yangtze River and established their capital at Lin'an (now Hangzhou). Although the Song Dynasty had lost control of the traditional birthplace of Chinese civilization along the Yellow River, the Song economy was not in ruins, as the Southern Song Empire contained 60 percent of China's population and a majority of the most productive agricultural land.\n\nDuring the Song Dynasty, Chán (禪) was used by the government to strengthen its control over the country, and Chán grew to become the largest sect in Chinese Buddhism. An ideal picture of the Chán of the Tang period was produced, which served the legacy of this newly acquired status.\n\nIn the early Song Dynasty \"Chán-Pure Land syncretism became a dominant movement.\"\nBuddhist ideology began to merge with Confucianism and Daoism, due in part to the use of existing Chinese philosophical terms in the translation of Buddhist scriptures. Various Confucian scholars of the Song dynasty, including Zhu Xi (wg: Chu Hsi), sought to redefine Confucianism as Neo-Confucianism.\n\nDuring the Song Dynasty, in 1021 CE, it is recorded that there were 458,855 Buddhist monks and nuns actively living in monasteries. The total number of monks was 397,615, while the total number of nuns was recorded as 61,240.\n\nDuring the Yuan Dynasty, the Mongol emperors made Esoteric Buddhism an official religion of China, and Tibetan lamas were given patronage at the court. A common perception was that this patronage of lamas caused corrupt forms of tantra to become widespread. When the Mongol Yuan Dynasty was overthrown and the Ming Dynasty was established, the Tibetan lamas were expelled from the court, and this form of Buddhism was denounced as not being an orthodox path.\n\nAccording to Weinstein, by the Ming Dynasty, the Chan school was so firmly established that all monks were affiliated with either the Linji school or the Caodong school.\n\nDuring the Ming Dynasty, Hanshan Deqing was one of the great reformers of Chinese Buddhism. Like many of his contemporaries, he advocated the dual practice of the Chán and Pure Land methods, and advocated the use of the \"nianfo\" (\"Mindfulness of the Buddha\") technique to purify the mind for the attainment of self-realization. He also directed practitioners in the use of mantras as well as scripture reading. He was also renowned as a lecturer and commentator, and admired for his strict adherence to the precepts.\n\nAccording to Jiang Wu, for Chan masters in this period such as Hanshan Deqing, training through self-cultivation was encouraged, and clichéd or formulaic instructions were despised. Eminent monks who practiced meditation and asceticism without proper Dharma transmission were acclaimed for having acquiring \"wisdom without a teacher.\"\n\nThe Qing court endorsed the Gelukpa School of Tibetan Buddhism. Early in the Taiping rebellion, the Taiping rebels targeted Buddhism. In the Battle of Nanjing (1853), the Taiping army butchered thousands of monks in Nanjing. But from the middle of the Taiping rebellion, Taiping leaders took a more moderate approach, demanding that monks should have licences.\n\nAround 1900, Buddhists from other Asian countries showed a growing interest in Chinese Buddhism. Anagarika Dharmapala visited Shanghai in 1893, intending \"to make a tour of China, to arouse the Chinese Buddhists to send missionaries to India to restore Buddhism there, and then to start a propaganda throughout the whole world\", but eventually limiting his stay to Shanghai. Japanese Buddhist missionaries were active in China in the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe modernisation of China led to the end of the Chinese Empire, and the installation of the Republic of China, which lasted on the mainland until the Communist Revolution and the installation of the People's Republic of China in 1949 which also led to the ROC government's exodus to Taiwan.\n\nUnder influence of the western culture, attempts were being made to revitalize Chinese Buddhism. Most notable were the Humanistic Buddhism of Taixu, and the revival of Chinese Chán by Hsu Yun. Hsu Yun is generally regarded as one of the most influential Buddhist teachers of the 19th and 20th centuries. Other influential teachers in the early 20th century included Pure land Buddhist Yin Guang () and artist Hong Yi. Layman Zhao Puchu worked much on the revival.\n\nUntil 1949, monasteries were built in the Southeast Asian countries, for example by monks of Guanghua Monastery, to spread Chinese Buddhism. Presently, Guanghua Monastery has seven branches in the Malay Peninsula and Indonesia. Several Chinese Buddhist teachers left mainland China during the Communist Revolution, and settled in Hong Kong and Taiwan.\n\nMaster Hsing Yun (1927–present) is the founder of Fo Guang Shan monastery and lay organization the Buddha's Light International Association. Born in Jiangsu Province in mainland China, he entered the Sangha at the age of 12, and came to Taiwan in 1949. He founded Fo Guang Shan monastery in 1967, and the Buddha's Light International Association in 1992. These are among the largest monastic and lay Buddhist organizations in Taiwan from the late 20th to early 21st centuries. He advocates Humanistic Buddhism, which the broad modern Chinese Buddhist progressive attitude towards the religion.\n\nMaster Sheng Yen (1930–2009) was the founder of the Dharma Drum Mountain, a Buddhist organization based in Taiwan. During his time in Taiwan, Sheng Yen was well known as one of the progressive Buddhist teachers who sought to teach Buddhism in a modern and Western-influenced world.\n\nMaster Wei Chueh was born in 1928 in Sichuan, mainland China, and ordained in Taiwan. In 1982, he founded Lin Quan Temple in Taipei County and became known for his teaching on Ch'an practices by offering many lectures and seven-day Ch'an retreats.\n\nUnlike Catholicism and other branches of Christianity, there was no organization in China that embraced all monastics in China, nor even all monastics within the same sect. Traditionally each monastery was autonomous, with authority resting on each respective abbot. In 1953, the Chinese Buddhist Association was established at a meeting with 121 delegates in Beijing. The meeting also elected a chairman, 4 honorary chairmen, 7 vice-chairmen, a secretary general, 3 deputy secretaries-general, 18 members of a standing committee, and 93 directors. The 4 elected honorary chairmen were the Dalai Lama, the Panchen Lama, the Grand Lama of Inner Mongolia, and Venerable Master Hsu Yun.\n\nSince the reform and opening up period in the 1970s, a new revival of Chinese Buddhism has been taking place. Ancient Buddhist temples are being restored and new Buddhist temples are being built.\n\nChinese Buddhist temples, administrated by local governments, have become increasingly commercialized by sales of tickets, incense, or other religious items; soliciting donations; and even the listing of temples on the stock market and local governments obtain large incomes. In October 2012, the State Administration for Religious Affairs announced a crackdown on religious profiteering. Many sites have done enough repairs and have already cancelled ticket fares and are receiving voluntary donation instead.\n\nThe 108-metre-high Guan Yin of the South Sea of Sanya statue was enshrined on April 24, 2005 with the participation of 108 eminent monks from various Buddhist groups from Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and tens of thousands of pilgrims. The delegation also included monks from the Theravada and Tibetan Buddhist traditions. China is one of the countries with the most of the world's highest statues, many of which are Buddhist statues.\n\nIn April 2006 China organized the World Buddhist Forum, an event now held every two years, and in March 2007 the government banned mining on Buddhist sacred mountains. In May of the same year, in Changzhou, the world's tallest pagoda was built and opened. In March 2008 the Taiwan-based organizations Tzu Chi Foundation and Fo Guang Shan were approved to open a branch in mainland China.\n\nCurrently, there are about 1.3 billion Chinese living in the People's Republic. Surveys have found that around 18.2% to 20% of this population adheres to Buddhism. Furthermore, PEW found that another 21% of the Chinese population followed Chinese folk religions that incorporated elements of Buddhism.\n\nChinese Buddhism is mainly practiced by ethnic Han-Chinese in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe first Chinese master to teach Westerners in North America was Hsuan Hua, who taught Chán and other traditions of Chinese Buddhism in San Francisco during the early 1960s. He went on to found the City Of Ten Thousand Buddhas, a monastery and retreat center located on a 237-acre (959,000 m²) property near Ukiah, California. Chuang Yen Monastery and Hsi Lai Temple are also large centers.\n\nSheng Yen also founded dharma centers in the USA.\n\nIn China and countries with large Chinese populations such as Taiwan, Malaysia, and Singapore, Esoteric Buddhism is most commonly referred to as the Chinese term Mìzōng (密宗), or \"Esoteric School.\" Traditions of Chinese Esoteric Buddhism are most commonly referred to as referred as Tángmì (唐密), \"Tang Dynasty Esoterica,\" or Hànchuán Mìzōng (漢傳密宗), \"Han Transmission Esoteric School\" (Hànmì 漢密 for short), or Dōngmì (東密), \"Eastern Esoterica,\" separating itself from Tibetan and Newar traditions. These schools more or less share the same doctrines as Shingon, and in some cases, Chinese monks have traveled to Japan to train and to be given esoteric transmission at Mount Koya and Mount Hiei.\n\nThere are many sects and organisations proclaiming a Buddhist identity and pursuit (\"fo\" or \"fu\": \"awakening\", \"enlightenment\") that are not recognised as legitimate Buddhism by the Chinese Buddhist Association and the government of the People's Republic of China. This group includes:\n\n\nChinese Buddhism incorporates elements of traditional Buddhism and Taoism.\n\nCommon practices include \n\nCommon beliefs include\n\nDuring the Zhou dynasty, Chinese believed that smoke resulting from burning wood act as a bridge between the human world and the spirits. When Buddhism reached China, this wood evolved into sandalwood incense which were originally burned by Indian Buddhists so they could concentrate better.\n\nThe philosophy behind incense burning is to sacrifice oneself for the benefit of others, the true spirit of Buddhism.\n\nIt can be seen that incense burning as it is known today is a merger between Chinese culture and Buddhist culture.\n\nIn Chinese Buddhism, lay practitioners have traditionally played an important role, and lay practice of Buddhism has had similar tendencies to those of monastic Buddhism in China. Many historical biographies of lay Buddhists are available, which give a clear picture of their practices and role in Chinese Buddhism. In addition to these numerous biographies, there are accounts from Jesuit missionaries such as Matteo Ricci which provide extensive and revealing accounts to the degree Buddhism penetrated elite and popular culture in China.\n\nTraditional practices such as meditation, mantra recitation, mindfulness of Amitābha Buddha, asceticism, and vegetarianism were all integrated into the belief systems of ordinary people. It is known from accounts in the Ming Dynasty that lay practitioners often engaged in practices from both the Pure Land and Chán traditions, as well as the study of the Buddhist sūtras. The \"Heart Sūtra\" and the \"Diamond Sūtra\" were the most popular, followed by the \"Lotus Sūtra\" and the \"\".\n\nLaypeople were also commonly devoted to the practice of mantras, and the Mahā Karuṇā Dhāraṇī and the Cundī Dhāraṇī were very popular. Robert Gimello has also observed that in Chinese Buddhist communities, the esoteric practices of Cundī enjoyed popularity among both the populace and the elite.\n\nMahāyāna figures such as Avalokiteśvara Bodhisattva, Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, Amitābha Buddha, and the Medicine Buddha, were all widely known and revered. Beliefs in karma and rebirth were held at all levels of Chinese society, and pilgrimages to well-known monasteries and the four holy mountains of China were undertaken by monastics and lay practitioners alike.\n\nThese are the holy days that Chinese Buddhists celebrate by visiting temples to make offerings of prayers, incense, fruits, flowers\nand donations. On such days they observe the moral precepts very strictly as well as a full day's vegetarian diet, a practice\noriginally from China.\n\nThe dates given are based on the Chinese calendar system so that 8.4 means the \"Eighth day of the fourth month in Chinese calendar\" and so on.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41884210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41884210", "title": "Chinese ritual mastery traditions", "text": "Chinese ritual mastery traditions\n\nChinese ritual mastery traditions, also referred to as ritual teachings (, sometimes rendered as \"Faism\"), or Folk Taoism (), or also Red Taoism (mostly in east China and Taiwan), constitute a large group of Chinese orders of ritual officers who operate within the Chinese folk religion but outside the institutions of official Taoism. The \"masters of rites\", the \"fashi\" (法師), are also known in east China as \"hongtou daoshi\" (紅頭道士), meaning \"redhead\" or \"redhat\" \"daoshi\" (\"masters of the Tao\"), contrasting with the \"wutou daoshi\" (烏頭道士), \"blackhead\" or \"blackhat\" priests, of Zhengyi Taoism who were historically ordained by the Celestial Master.\n\nZhengyi Taoism and Faism are often grouped together under the category of \"\"daoshi\" and \"fashi\" ritual traditions\" (道法二門道壇). Although the two types of priests have the same roles in Chinese society—in that they can marry and they perform rituals for communities' temples or private homes—Zhengyi \"daoshi\" emphasize their Taoist tradition, distinguished from the vernacular tradition of the \"fashi\".\n\nRitual masters can be practitioners of \"tongji\" possession, healing, exorcism and \"jiao\" rituals (although historically they were excluded from performing the \"jiao\" liturgy). The only ones that are shamans (\"wu\") are the \"fashi\" of the Lushan school.\n\nThe ritual masters (法師 \"fashi\") are defined, in opposition to formally ordained Taoist priests, as:\n\nSarah Coakley (Cambridge University) distinguishes \"fashi\" as \"kataphatic\" (of filling character) in opposition to Taoists as \"kenotic\" (of emptying character), and links them to other Sino-Tibetan indigenous religions:\n\nThey are known by different names throughout China, other popular ones being \"ritual officers\" (\"faguan\") as they at times call themselves, or \"redhead\" Taoist priests (紅頭道士 \"hongtou daoshi\"). There are also localised names, such as \"orthodox lords\" (\"duangong\"), \"altar masters\" (\"zhangtanshi\"), or \"earth masters\" (\"tulaoshi\") in Guizhou.\n\nThey are also in competition with other orders who perform similar services: monks and tantric masters under the auspices of Buddhism, and \"tongji\" media.\n\nThe difference between ritual masters and gods' media is that instead of being subject to territorial gods like the media, the ritual masters can marshal the powers of local gods.\n\nThe Lushan (Mount Lu) school (, also or ), also known as Sannai school (), is present in Fujian, southern Zhejiang and Taiwan. It is very active nowadays, and is related to the worship of the goddess 陈靖姑 \"Chénjìnggū\" (\"Old Quiet Lady\") the Waterside Dame (临水夫人 \"Línshuǐ Fūrén\"), who is very popular in the same area. It is also related to the cult of Wang Laomu, and competing with Maoshan Taoism.\n\nThe tradition shows similarities with Yao and Zhuang ritual traditions, and has incorporated elements of Tantra, such as the use of mudra and vajra. Lushan \"fashi\" perform rituals as the head of celestial troops while invoking the \"Three Ladies\" (\"sannai\"): Chen Jinggu and her two disciples, Lin Jiuniang and Li Sanniang. Although Lushan \"fashi\" are men, in performance they wear the ritual red skirt of Chen Jinggu and a crown or headdress with the words \"Three Ladies\" painted on it. Lushan \"fashi\" also practice a shamanic voyage rite called \"crossing the roads and the passes\" (\"guo luguan\").\n\nThe Pu'an school () is present in west-central Fujian and southern Jiangxi. The historical figure of the monk Pu’an is worshipped by the practitioners as their \"founding master\" (\"zushi\"). Their texts, rituals and iconography incorporate Tantric themes adapted in a Taoist style, and have elements of the Zhengyi and Lushan traditions.\n\nThe Xujia school () is another form of ritual masters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87806", "title": "Cornucopia", "text": "Cornucopia\n\nIn classical antiquity, the cornucopia (from Latin \"cornu copiae\"), also called the horn of plenty, was a symbol of abundance and nourishment, commonly a large horn-shaped container overflowing with produce, flowers or nuts.\n\nMythology offers multiple explanations of the origin of the cornucopia. One of the best-known involves the birth and nurturance of the infant Zeus, who had to be hidden from his devouring father Kronus. In a cave on Mount Ida on the island of Crete, baby Zeus was cared for and protected by a number of divine attendants, including the goat Amaltheia (\"Nourishing Goddess\"), who fed him with her milk. The suckling future king of the gods had unusual abilities and strength, and in playing with his nursemaid accidentally broke off one of her horns, which then had the divine power to provide unending nourishment, as the foster mother had to the god.\n\nIn another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and wrenched off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned. This version is represented in the \"Achelous and Hercules\" mural painting by the American Regionalist artist Thomas Hart Benton.\n\nThe cornucopia became the attribute of several Greek and Roman deities, particularly those associated with the harvest, prosperity, or spiritual abundance, such as personifications of Earth (Gaia or Terra); the child Plutus, god of riches and son of the grain goddess Demeter; the nymph Maia; and Fortuna, the goddess of luck, who had the power to grant prosperity. In Roman Imperial cult, abstract Roman deities who fostered peace \"(pax Romana)\" and prosperity were also depicted with a cornucopia, including Abundantia, \"Abundance\" personified, and Annona, goddess of the grain supply to the city of Rome. Hades, the classical ruler of the underworld in the mystery religions, was a giver of agricultural, mineral and spiritual wealth, and in art often holds a cornucopia.\n\nIn modern depictions, the cornucopia is typically a hollow, horn-shaped wicker basket filled with various kinds of festive fruit and vegetables. In most of North America, the cornucopia has come to be associated with Thanksgiving and the harvest. Cornucopia is also the name of the annual November Food and Wine celebration in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada. Two cornucopias are seen in the flag and state seal of Idaho. The Great Seal of North Carolina depicts Liberty standing and Plenty holding a cornucopia. The coat of arms of Colombia, Panama, Peru and Venezuela, and the Coat of Arms of the State of Victoria, Australia, also feature the cornucopia, symbolizing prosperity. \n\nThe motif of the cornucopia is used in the book series \"The Hunger Games\". In the eponymous gladiatorial games described in the series, a large horn-like cache filled with weapons and equipment is placed at the starting point: this cache serves as the focal point of fighting during the games' first minutes, and is even called the \"Cornucopia\". In the film adaptation, the national anthem of Panem, the series' primary setting, is called \"the Horn of Plenty\", which is mentioned several times in the lyrics.\n\nThe horn of plenty is used for body art and at Halloween, as it is a symbol of fertility, fortune and abundance.\n\n"}
{"id": "10103907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10103907", "title": "Cuauhxicalli", "text": "Cuauhxicalli\n\nA cuauhxicalli or quauhxicalli (, meaning \"eagle gourd bowl\") was an altar-like stone vessel used by the Aztecs to hold human hearts extracted in sacrificial ceremonies. A cuauhxicalli would often be decorated with animal motifs, commonly eagles or jaguars. Another kind of cuauhxicalli is the Chacmool-type which is shaped as a reclining person holding a bowl on his belly.\n"}
{"id": "1927935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927935", "title": "Daeva", "text": "Daeva\n\nDaeva (Avestan: 𐬛𐬀𐬉𐬎𐬎𐬀 \"daēuua\") is an Avestan language term for a particular sort of supernatural entity with disagreeable characteristics. In the Gathas, the oldest texts of the Zoroastrian canon, the \"daevas\" are \"gods that are (to be) rejected\". This meaning is – subject to interpretation – perhaps also evident in the Old Persian \"\"daiva\" inscription\" of the 5th century BCE. In the \"Younger Avesta\", the \"daevas\" are divinities that promote chaos and disorder. In later tradition and folklore, the \"dēws\" (Zoroastrian Middle Persian; New Persian \"divs\") are personifications of every imaginable evil.\n\n\"Daeva\", the Iranian language term, should not be confused with the \"devas\" of Indian religions. While the word for the Vedic spirits and the word for the Zoroastrian entities are etymologically related, their function and thematic development is altogether different. The once-widespread notion that the radically different functions of Iranian \"daeva\" and Indic \"deva\" (and \"ahura\" versus \"asura\") represented a prehistoric inversion of roles is no longer followed in 21st century academic discourse (see In comparison with Vedic usage for details).\n\nEquivalents for Avestan \"daeva\" in Iranian languages include Pashto, Balochi, Kurdish \"dêw\", Persian \"dīv\"/\"deev\", all of which apply to demons, monsters, and other villainous creatures. The Iranian word was borrowed into Old Armenian as \"dew\", Georgian as \"devi\", and Urdu as \"deo\", with the same negative associations in those languages. In English, the word appears as \"daeva\", \"div\", \"deev\", and in the 18th century fantasy novels of William Thomas Beckford as \"dive\".\n\nOld Avestan \"daēuua\" or \"daēva\" derives from Old Iranian \"*daiva\", which in turn derives from Indo-Iranian \"*daivá-\" \"god\", reflecting Proto-Indo-European \"*deywós\" with the same meaning. For other Indo-European derivatives, see Dyeus. The Vedic Sanskrit cognate of Avestan \"daēuua\" is \"devá-\", continuing in later Indo-Aryan languages as \"dev\".\n\nBecause all cognates of Iranian \"*daiva\" have a positive connotation, but \"no known Iranian dialect attests clearly and certainly the survival of a positive sense for [Old Iranian] \"*daiva-\"\", in the 19th- and 20th-century a great deal of academic discussion revolved around questions of how Iranian \"daeva\" might have gained its derogatory meaning. This \"fundamental fact of Iranian linguistics\" is \"impossible\" to reconcile with the testimony of the Gathas, where the \"daevas\", though rejected, were still evidently gods that continued to have a following. The same is true of the \"daiva\" inscription, where the \"daiva\" are the gods of (potential) rebels, but still evidently gods that continued to have a following.\n\nThe issue is related to the question of how Zoroaster's own contribution to Iranian religion might be defined. In the older early/mid 20th-century view (so-called reform hypothesis), in which Zoroaster was perceived to be a revolutionary reformer, it was assumed that the \"daevas\" must have been the \"national\" gods (see comparison with Indic usage, below) of pre-Zoroaster-ian Iran, which Zoroaster had then rejected. This attribution to Zoroaster is also found in the 9th/10th-century books of Zoroastrian tradition, and Gershevitch and others following Lommel consider the progression from \"national\" gods to demons to be attributable to the \"genius of Zoroaster\". Subsequent scholarship (so-called progressive hypothesis) has a more differentiated view of Zoroaster, and does not follow the unprovable assumption that prehistoric Iranian religion ever had \"national\" gods (and thus also that the \"daevas\" could have represented such a group), nor does it involve hypothetical conjecture of whose gods the \"daevas\" might/might not have been. While the progressive hypothesis gives Zoroaster credit for giving Iranian religion a moral and ethical dimension, it does not (with one notable exception) give Zoroaster credit for the development of the \"daevas\" into demons. It assumes that the development was gradual, and that a general distrust of the \"daevas\" already existed by the time the Gathas were composed.\n\nAlthough with some points of comparison such as shared etymology, Indic \"devá-\" is thematically different from Avestan \"daēva\".\n\nIn the Rigveda (10.124.3), the \"deva\"s are the \"younger gods\", in conflict with the \"asura\"s, the \"older gods\". There is no such division evident in the Zoroastrian texts. And, while in the post-Rigvedic Indic texts the conflict between the two groups of \"deva\"s and \"asuras\" is a primary theme, this is not a theme in either the Rigveda nor in the Iranian texts, and therefore cannot have been a feature of a common heritage. The use of \"asura\" in the Rigveda is unsystematic and inconsistent and \"it can hardly be said to confirm the existence of a category of gods opposed to the \"deva\"s\". Indeed, RigVedic \"deva\" is variously applied to most gods, including many of the \"asura\"s. Likewise, at the oldest layer, Zoroastrianism's \"daeva\"s are originally also gods (albeit gods to be rejected), and it is only in the younger texts that the word evolved to refer to evil creatures. And the Zoroastrian \"ahura\"s (etymologically related to the Vedic \"asura\"s) are also only vaguely defined, and only three in number.\n\nMoreover, the daemonization of the \"asura\"s in India and the daemonization of the \"daeva\"s in Iran both took place \"so late that the associated terms cannot be considered a feature of Indo-Iranian religious dialectology\". The view popularized by Nyberg, Jacques Duchesne-Guillemin, and Widengren of a prehistorical opposition of \"*asura/daiva\" involves \"interminable and entirely conjectural discussions\" on the status of various Indo-Iranian entities that in one culture are \"asura\"s/\"ahura\"s and in the other are \"deva\"s/\"daeva\"s (see examples in the Younger Avesta, below).\n\nIn the Gathas, the oldest texts of Zoroastrianism and credited to Zoroaster himself, the \"daeva\"s are not yet the demons that they would become in later Zoroastrianism; though their rejection is notable in the Gathas themselves. The Gathas speak of the \"daeva\"s as a group, and do not mention individual \"daeva\"s by name. In these ancient texts, the term \"daeva\"s (also spelled 'daēuuas') occurs 19 times; wherein \"daeva\"s are a distinct category of \"quite genuine gods, who had, however, been rejected\". In \"Yasna\" 32.3 and 46.1, the \"daeva\"s are still worshipped by the Iranian peoples. \"Yasna\" 32.8 notes that some of the followers of Zoroaster had previously been followers of the \"daeva\"s; though, the \"daeva\"s are clearly identified with evil (e.g., \"Yasna\" 32.5).\n\nIn the Gathas, \"daeva\"s are censured as being incapable of discerning truth (\"asha-\") from falsehood (\"druj-\"). They are consequently in \"error\" (\"aēnah-\"), but are never identified as \"drəguuaṇt-\" \"people of the lie\". The conclusion drawn from such ambiguity is that, at the time the Gathas were composed, \"the process of rejection, negation, or daemonization of these gods was only just beginning, but, as the evidence is full of gaps and ambiguities, this impression may be erroneous\". \n\nIn Yasna 32.4, the \"daeva\"s are revered by the \"Usij\", described as a class of \"false priests\", devoid of goodness of mind and heart, and hostile to cattle and husbandry (\"Yasna\" 32.10-11, 44.20). Like the \"daeva\"s that they follow, \"the \"Usij\" are known throughout the seventh region of the earth as the offspring of \"aka mainyu,\" \"druj,\" and arrogance. (\"Yasna\" 32.3)\". \"Yasna\" 30.6 suggests the \"daeva\"-worshipping priests debated frequently with Zoroaster, but failed to persuade him.\n\nIn the Younger Avesta, the \"daeva\"s are unambiguously hostile entities. In contrast, the word \"daevayasna-\" (literally, \"one who sacrifices to \"daeva\"s\") denotes adherents of other religions and thus still preserves some semblance of the original meaning in that the \"daeva-\" prefix still denotes \"other\" gods. In \"Yasht\" 5.94 however, the \"daevayasna-\" are those who sacrifice to Anahita during the hours of darkness, i.e., the hours when the \"daeva\"s lurk about, and \"daevayasna-\" appears then to be an epithet applied to those who deviate from accepted practice and/or harvested religious disapproval.\n\nThe \"Vendidad\", a contraction of \"vi-daevo-dāta\", \"given against the \"daeva\"s\", is a collection of late Avestan texts that deals almost exclusively with the \"daeva\"s, or rather, their various manifestations and with ways to confound them. \"Vi.daeva-\" \"rejecting the \"daeva\"s\" qualifies the faithful Zoroastrian with the same force as \"mazdayasna-\" ('Mazda worshiper').\n\nIn \"Vendidad\" 10.9 and 19.43, three divinities of the Vedic pantheon follow Angra Mainyu in a list of demons: Completely adapted to Iranian phonology, these are \"Indra\" (Vedic Indra), Sarva (Vedic Sarva, i.e. Rudra), and Nanghaithya (Vedic Nasatya). The process by which these three came to appear in the Avesta is uncertain. Together with three other \"daeva\"s, Tauru, Zairi and Nasu, that do not have Vedic equivalents, the six oppose the six Amesha Spentas.\n\n\"Vendidad\" 19.1 and 19.44 have Angra Mainyu dwelling in the region of the \"daeva\"s which the \"Vendidad\" sets in the north and/or the nether world (\"Vendidad \" 19.47, \"Yasht\" 15.43), a world of darkness. In Vendidad 19.1 and 19.43-44, Angra Mainyu is the \"daevanam daevo\", \"\"daeva\" of \"daeva\"s\" or chief of the \"daeva\"s. The superlative \"daevo.taema\" is however assigned to the demon Paitisha (\"opponent\"). In an enumeration of the \"daeva\"s in Vendidad 1.43, Angra Mainyu appears first and Paitisha appears last. \"Nowhere is Angra Mainyu said to be the creator of the \"daeva\"s or their father.\"\n\nThe \"Vendidad\" is usually recited after nightfall since the last part of the day is considered to be the time of the demons. Because the \"Vendidad\" is the means to disable them, this text is said to be effective only when recited between sunset and sunrise.\n\nOld Persian \"daiva\" occurs twice in Xerxes' \"daiva inscription\" (XPh, early 5th century BCE). This trilingual text also includes one reference to a \"daivadana\" \"house of the \"daiva\"s\", generally interpreted to be a reference to a shrine or sanctuary.\n\nIn his inscription, Xerxes records that \"by the favour of Ahura Mazda I destroyed that establishment of the daivas and I proclaimed, 'The daivas thou shalt not worship!'\" This statement has been interpreted either one of two ways. Either the statement is an ideological one and \"daiva\"s were gods that were to be rejected, or the statement was politically motivated and \"daiva\"s were gods that were followed by (potential) enemies of the state.\n\nIn the Middle Persian texts of Zoroastrian tradition, the \"dew\"s are invariably rendered with the Aramaic ideogram \"ŠDYA\" or the more common plural \"ŠDYAʼn\" that signified \"demons\" even in the singular.\n\n\"Dew\"s play a crucial role in the cosmogonic drama of the \"Bundahishn\", a Zoroastrian view of creation completed in the 12th century. In this text, the evil spirit \"Ahriman\" (the middle Persian equivalent of Avestan Angra Mainyu) creates his hordes of \"dew\"s to counter the creation of \"Ormuzd\" (Avestan Ahura Mazda). This notion is already alluded to in the \"Vendidad\" (see \"Younger Avestan\" texts above), but only properly developed in the \"Bundahishn\". In particular, Ahriman is seen to create six \"dew\"s that in Zoroastrian tradition are the antitheses of the \"Amahraspand\"s (Avestan Amesha Spentas).\n\nMirroring the task of the Amesha Spentas through which Ahura Mazda realized creation, the six antitheses are the instrument through which Angra Mainyu creates all the horrors in the world. Further, the arch-\"daeva\"s of \"Vendidad\" 10.9 and 19.43 are identified as the antithetical counterparts of the Amesha Spentas. The six arch-demons as listed in the \"Epistles of Zadspram\" (WZ 35.37) and the \"Greater Bundahishn\" (GBd. 34.27) are:\nThese oppositions differ from those found in scripture, where the moral principles (that each Amesha Spenta represents) are opposed by immoral principles. This is not however a complete breach, for while in the Gathas \"asha\"—the principle—is the diametric opposite of the abstract \"druj\", in Zoroastrian tradition, it is \"Ardawahisht\", the Amesha Spenta that is the hypostasis of \"asha\", that is opposed to by Indar, who freezes the minds of creatures from practicing \"righteousness\" (\"asha\").\n\"Greater Bundahishn\" 34.27 adds two more arch-demons, which are not however in opposition to Amesha Spentas:\n\nAlso mirroring Ormuzd's act of creation, i.e., the realization of the Amesha Spentas by his \"thought\", is Ahriman's creation of the \"dew\"s through his \"demonic essence\". Other texts describe this event as being to Ahriman's detriment for his act of \"creation\" is actually an act of destruction. Ahriman is the very epitome (and hypostasis) of destruction, and hence he did not \"create\" the demons, he realized them through destruction, and they then became that destruction. The consequence is that, as Ahriman and the \"dew\"s can only destruct, they will ultimately destroy themselves (\"Denkard\" 3). As the medieval texts also do for Ahriman, they question whether the \"dew\"s exist at all. Since \"existence\" is the domain of Ormuzd, and Ahriman and his \"dew\"s are anti-existence, it followed that Ahriman and his \"dew\"s could not possibly exist. One interpretation of the \"Denkard\" proposes that the \"dew\"s were perceived to be non-existent physically (that is, they were considered non-ontological) but present psychologically. (see also: Ahriman: In Zoroastrian tradition)\n\nFor a different set of texts, such as the \"Shayest ne shayest\" and the \"Book of Arda Wiraz\", Ahriman and the \"dew\"s were utterly real, and are described as being potentially catastrophic. In such less philosophical representations, the \"dew\"s are hordes of devils with a range of individual powers ranging from the almost benign to the most malign. They collectively rush out at nightfall to do their worst, which includes every possible form of corruption at every possible level of human existence. Their destructiveness is evident not only in disease, pain, and grief but also in cosmic events such as falling stars and climatic events such as droughts, cyclones and earthquakes. They are sometimes described as having anthropomorphic properties such as faces and feet, or given animal-like properties such as claws and body hair. They may produce semen, and may even mate with humans as in the tale of \"Jam\" and \"Jamag\" (\"Bundahishn\" 14B.1).\n\nBut with the exception of the \"Book of Arda Wiraz\", the \"dew\"s are not generally described as a force to be feared. With fundamental optimism, the texts describe how the \"dew\"s may be kept in check, ranging from cursing them to the active participation in life through good thoughts, words and deeds. Many of the medieval texts develop ideas already expressed in the \"Vendidad\" (\"given against the demons\").\n\nA fire (cf. \"Adur\") is an effective weapon against the \"dew\"s, and keeping a hearth fire burning is a means to protect the home. The \"dew\"s are \"particularly attracted by the organic productions of human beings, from excretion, reproduction, sex, and death\". Prayer and other recitations of the liturgy, in particular the recitation of \"Yasht\" 1 (so \"Sad-dar\" 57), is effective in keeping the demons at bay. Demons are attracted by chatter at mealtimes and when silence is broken a demon takes the place of the angel at one's side. According to \"Shayest-ne-Shayest\" 9.8, eating at all after nightfall is not advisable since the night is the time of demons. In the 9th century \"rivayat\"s (65.14), the demons are described as issuing out at night to wreak mayhem, but forced back into the underworld by the divine glory (\"khvarenah\") at sunrise.\n\nThe Zoroastrianism of the medieval texts is unambiguous with respect to which force is the superior. Evil cannot create and is hence has a lower priority in the cosmic order (\"asha\"). According to \"Denkard\" 5.24.21a, the protection of the \"yazata\"s is ultimately greater than the power of the demons. The \"dew\"s are agents (\"procurers—\"vashikano\"—of success\") of Ahriman (Avestan \"Angra Mainyu\") in the contests that will continue until the end of time, at which time the fiend will become invisible and (God's) creatures will become pure. (\"Dadestan-i Denig\" 59)\n\nBut until the final renovation of the world, mankind \"stands between the \"yazad\"s and the \"dēw\"s; the [\"yazad\"s] are immortal in essence and inseparable from their bodies (\"mēnōg\"), men are immortal in essence but separable from their bodies (moving from \"gētīg\" to \"mēnōg\" condition), but \"dēw\"s are mortal in essence and inseparable from their bodies, which may be destroyed.\"\n\nIn addition to the six arch-demons (see above) that oppose the six Amesha Spentas, numerous other figures appear in scripture and tradition. According to \"Bundahishn\" XXVII.12, the six arch-demons have cooperators (\"hamkars\"), arranged in a hierarchy (not further specified) similar to that of the \"yazata\"s. These are \"\"dew\"s [...] created by the sins that creatures commit.\" (\"Bundahishn\" XXVII.51)\nOther entities include:\nThe most destructive of these are \"Astiwihad\", the demon of death that casts the noose of mortality around men's necks at birth, and \"Az\", who is most capable of destroying the \"innate wisdom\" of man. \"Az\" is thus the cause of heresy and blinds the righteous man from being able to discern the truth and falsehood.\n\nA list of ten demons is provided in the \"Shahnameh\": Besides the afore-mentioned \"Az\" \"greed\", \"Kashm\" \"wrath\" (Avestan \"Aeshma\"), \"Nang\" \"dishonor\", \"Niaz\" \"want\", and \"Rashk\" \"envy\", the epic poem includes \"Kin\" \"vengeance\", \"Nammam\" \"tell-tale\", \"Do-ruy\" \"two-face\", \"napak-din\" \"heresy\", and (not explicitly named) ungratefulness.\n\nSome of the entities that in the Middle Persian texts are demons, are in the \"Shahnameh\" attributes of demons, for instance, \"varuna\" \"backwards\" or \"inside out\", reflecting that they tend to do the opposite of what they are asked to do. Although Ferdowsi generally portrays \"div\"s as being distinct from humans, the poet also uses the word to denote \"evil people\".\n\nOne of the more popular stories from the \"Shahnameh\" is that of \"Rostam and the Dīv-e Sapīd\", the \"white demon\" of Mazandaran, who blinds Rostam's men but who are then cured with the blood of the demon's gall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47118", "title": "Darius I", "text": "Darius I\n\nDarius I (Old Persian: , New Persian: \"Dāryuš\"; ; c. 550–486 BCE) was the fourth king of the Persian Achaemenid Empire. Also called Darius the Great, he ruled the empire at its peak, when it included much of West Asia, the Caucasus, parts of the Balkans (Thrace-Macedonia and Paeonia), most of the Black Sea coastal regions, parts of the North Caucasus, Central Asia, as far as the Indus Valley in the far east and portions of north and northeast Africa including Egypt (Mudrâya), eastern Libya and coastal Sudan.\n\nDarius ascended the throne by overthrowing Gaumata, a usurper. The new king met with rebellions throughout his kingdom and quelled them each time. A major event in Darius's life was his expedition to punish Athens and Eretria for their aid in the Ionian Revolt and subjugate Greece. Although ultimately ending in failure at the Battle of Marathon, Darius succeeded in the re-subjugation of Thrace, expansion of the empire through the conquest of Macedon, the Cyclades and the island of Naxos and the sacking of the city of Eretria.\n\nDarius organized the empire by dividing it into provinces and placing satraps to govern it. He organized a new uniform monetary system, along with making Aramaic the official language of the empire. He also put the empire in better standing by building roads and introducing standard weights and measures. Through these changes, the empire was centralized and unified. Darius also worked on construction projects throughout the empire, focusing on Susa, Pasargadae, Persepolis, Babylon and Egypt. He had the cliff-face Behistun Inscription carved to record his conquests, an important testimony of the Old Persian language.\n\nDarius is mentioned in the biblical books of Haggai, Zechariah and Ezra–Nehemiah.\n\n and are the Latin forms of the Greek \"Dareîos\" (), itself from Old Persian \"Dārayauš\" (; \"d-a-r-y-uš\"/Dārayauš), which is a shortened form of \"Dārayavaʰuš\" (, \"d-a-r-y-v-u-š\"/Dārayavaʰuš). The longer form is also seen to have been reflected in the Elamite \"Da-ri-(y)a-ma-u-iš\", Babylonian \"Da-(a-)ri-ia-(a-)muš\", Aramaic \"drywhwš\", and possibly the longer Greek form \"Dareiaîos\" (). The name is a nominative form meaning \"he who holds firm the good(ness)\", which can be seen by the first part \"dāraya\", meaning \"holder\", and the adverb \"vau\", meaning \"goodness\".\n\nAt some time between his coronation and his death, Darius left a tri-lingual monumental relief on Mount Behistun, which was written in Elamite, Old Persian and Babylonian. The inscription begins with a brief autobiography including his ancestry and lineage. To aid the presentation of his ancestry, Darius wrote down the sequence of events that occurred after the death of Cyrus the Great. Darius mentions several times that he is the rightful king by the grace of Ahura Mazda, the Zoroastrian god. In addition, further texts and monuments from Persepolis have been found, as well as a clay tablet containing an Old Persian cuneiform of Darius from Gherla, Romania (Harmatta) and a letter from Darius to Gadates, preserved in a Greek text of the Roman period. In the foundation tablets of Apadana Palace, Darius described in Old Persian cuneiform the extent of his Empire in broad geographical terms: \n\nHerodotus, a Greek historian and author of \"The Histories\", provided an account of many Persian kings and the Greco-Persian Wars. He wrote extensively on Darius, spanning half of Book 3 along with Books 4, 5 and 6. It begins with the removal of the alleged usurper Gaumata and continues to the end of Darius's reign.\n\nDarius was the eldest of five sons to Hystaspes and Rhodugune in 550 BCE. Hystaspes was a leading figure of authority in Persia, which was the homeland of the Persians. Darius's inscription states that his father was satrap of Bactria in 522 BCE. According to Herodotus, Hystaspes was the satrap of Persis, although most historians state that this is an error. Also according to Herodotus (III.139), Darius, prior to seizing power and \"of no consequence at the time\", had served as a spearman (\"doryphoros\") in the Egyptian campaign (528–525 BCE) of Cambyses II, then the Persian Great King; this is often interpreted to mean he was the king's personal spear-carrier, an important role. Hystaspes was an officer in Cyrus' army and a noble of his court.\n\nBefore Cyrus and his army crossed the Aras River to battle with the Armenians, he installed his son Cambyses II as king in case he should not return from battle. However, once Cyrus had crossed the Aras River, he had a vision in which Darius had wings atop his shoulders and stood upon the confines of Europe and Asia (the known world). When Cyrus awoke from the dream, he inferred it as a great danger to the future security of the empire, as it meant that Darius would one day rule the whole world. However, his son Cambyses was the heir to the throne, not Darius, causing Cyrus to wonder if Darius was forming treasonable and ambitious designs. This led Cyrus to order Hystaspes to go back to Persis and watch over his son strictly, until Cyrus himself returned. Darius did not seem to have any treasonous thoughts as Cambyses II ascended the throne peacefully; and, through promotion, Darius was eventually elevated to be Cambyses's personal lancer.\n\nThere are different accounts of the rise of Darius to the throne from both Darius himself and Greek historians. The oldest records report a convoluted sequence of events in which Cambyses II lost his mind, murdered his brother Bardiya, and was killed by an infected leg wound. After this, Darius and a group of six nobles traveled to Sikayauvati to kill an usurper, Gaumata, who had taken the throne by pretending to be Bardiya during the true king's absence. Many modern historians believe that Gaumata was in fact the true heir Bardiya, with the historical account being altered by Darius to make the \"coup d'etat\" appear more legitimate.\nDarius's account, written at the Behistun Inscription, states that Cambyses II killed his own brother Bardiya, but that this murder was not known among the Iranian people. A would-be usurper named Gaumata came and lied to the people, stating he was Bardiya. The Iranians had grown rebellious against Cambyses's rule and on 11 March 522 BCE a revolt against Cambyses broke out in his absence. On 1 July, the Iranian people chose to be under the leadership of Gaumata, as \"Bardiya\". No member of the Achaemenid family would rise against Gaumata for the safety of their own life. Darius, who had served Cambyses as his lance-bearer until the deposed ruler's death, prayed for aid and in September 522 BCE, along with Otanes, Intraphrenes, Gobryas, Hydarnes, Megabyzus and Aspathines, killed Gaumata in the fortress of Sikayauvati.\n\nHerodotus provides a dubious account of Darius's ascension: Several days after Gaumata had been assassinated, Darius and the other six nobles discussed the fate of the empire. At first, the seven discussed the form of government; a democratic republic (\"Isonomia\") was strongly pushed by Otanes, an oligarchy was pushed by Megabyzus, while Darius pushed for a monarchy. After stating that a republic would lead to corruption and internal fighting, while a monarchy would be led with a single-mindedness not possible in other governments, Darius was able to convince the other nobles.\n\nTo decide who would become the monarch, six of them decided on a test, with Otanes abstaining, as he had no interest in being king. They were to gather outside the palace, mounted on their horses at sunrise, and the man whose horse neighed first in recognition of the rising sun would become king. According to Herodotus, Darius had a slave, Oebares, who rubbed his hand over the genitals of a mare that Darius's horse favored. When the six gathered, Oebares placed his hands beside the nostrils of Darius's horse, who became excited at the scent and neighed. This was followed by lightning and thunder, leading the others to dismount and kneel before Darius in recognition of his apparent divine providence. In this account, Darius himself claimed that he achieved the throne not through fraud, but cunning, even erecting a statue of himself mounted on his neighing horse with the inscription: \"Darius, son of Hystaspes, obtained the sovereignty of Persia by the sagacity of his horse and the ingenious contrivance of Oebares, his groom.\"\n\nAccording to the accounts of Greek historians, Cambyses II had left Patizeithes in charge of the kingdom when he headed for Egypt. He later sent Prexaspes to murder Bardiya. After the killing, Patizeithes put his brother Gaumata, a Magian who resembled Bardiya, on the throne and declared him the Great King. Otanes discovered that Gaumata was an impostor, and along with six other Iranian nobles including Darius, created a plan to oust the pseudo-Bardiya. After killing the impostor along with his brother Patizeithes and other Magians, Darius was crowned king the following morning.\n\nFollowing his coronation at Pasargadae, Darius moved to Ecbatana. He soon learned that support for Bardiya was strong, and revolts in Elam and Babylonia had broken out. Darius ended the Elamite revolt when the revolutionary leader Aschina was captured and executed in Susa. After three months the revolt in Babylonia had ended. While in Babylonia, Darius learned a revolution had broken out in Bactria, a satrapy which had always been in favour of Darius, and had initially volunteered an army of soldiers to quell revolts. Following this, revolts broke out in Persis, the homeland of the Persians and Darius and then in Elam and Babylonia, followed by in Media, Parthia, Assyria, and Egypt. By 522 BCE, there were revolts against Darius in most parts of the Achaemenid Empire leaving the empire in turmoil. Even though Darius did not seem to have the support of the populace, Darius had a loyal army, led by close confidants and nobles (including the six nobles who had helped him remove Gaumata). With their support, Darius was able to suppress and quell all revolts within a year. In Darius's words, he had killed a total of eight \"lying kings\" through the quelling of revolutions. Darius left a detailed account of these revolutions in the Behistun Inscription.\nOne of the significant events of Darius's early reign was the slaying of Intaphernes, one of the seven noblemen who had deposed the previous ruler and installed Darius as the new monarch. The seven had made an agreement that they could all visit the new king whenever they pleased, except when he was with his wife. One evening, Intaphernes went to the palace to meet Darius, but was stopped by two officers who stated that Darius had retired for the night. Becoming enraged and insulted, Intaphernes drew his sword and cut off the ears and noses of the two officers. While leaving the palace, he took the bridle from his horse, and tied the two officers together. The officers went to the king and showed him what Intaphernes had done to them. Darius began to fear for his own safety; he thought that all seven noblemen had banded together to rebel against him and that the attack against his officers was the first sign of revolt. He sent a messenger to each of the noblemen, asking them if they approved of Intaphernes's actions. They denied and disavowed any connection with Intaphernes's actions, stating that they stood by their decision to appoint Darius as King of Kings.\n\nTaking precautions against further resistance, Darius sent soldiers to seize Intaphernes, along with his son, family members, relatives and any friends who were capable of arming themselves. Darius believed that Intaphernes was planning a rebellion, but when he was brought to the court, there was no proof of any such plan. Nonetheless, Darius killed Intaphernes's entire family, excluding his wife's brother and son. She was asked to choose between her brother and son. She chose her brother to live. Her reasoning for doing so was that she could have another husband and another son, but she would always have but one brother. Darius was impressed by her response and spared both her brother's and her son's life.\n\nAfter securing his authority over the entire empire, Darius embarked on a campaign to Egypt where he defeated the armies of the Pharaoh and secured the lands that Cambyses had conquered while incorporating a large portion of Egypt into the Achaemenid Empire.\n\nThrough another series of campaigns, Darius I would eventually reign over the territorial apex of the empire, when it stretched from parts of the Balkans (Thrace-Macedonia, Bulgaria-Paeonia) in the west, to the Indus Valley in the east.\n\nIn 516 BCE, Darius embarked on a campaign to Central Asia, Aria and Bactria and then marched into Afghanistan to Taxila in modern-day Pakistan. Darius spent the winter of 516–515 BCE in Gandhara, preparing to conquer the Indus Valley. Darius conquered the lands surrounding the Indus River in 515 BCE. Darius I controlled the Indus Valley from Gandhara to modern Karachi and appointed the Greek Scylax of Caryanda to explore the Indian Ocean from the mouth of the Indus to Suez. Darius then marched through the Bolan Pass and returned through Arachosia and Drangiana back to Persia.\n\nAfter Bardiya was murdered, widespread revolts occurred throughout the empire, especially on the eastern side. Darius asserted his position as king by force, taking his armies throughout the empire, suppressing each revolt individually. The most notable of all these revolts was the Babylonian revolt which was led by Nebuchadnezzar III. This revolt occurred when Otanes withdrew much of the army from Babylon to aid Darius in suppressing other revolts. Darius felt that the Babylonian people had taken advantage of him and deceived him, which resulted in Darius gathering a large army and marching to Babylon. At Babylon, Darius was met with closed gates and a series of defences to keep him and his armies out. Darius encountered mockery and taunting from the rebels, including the famous saying \"Oh yes, you will capture our city, when mules shall have foals.\" For a year and a half, Darius and his armies were unable to retake the city, though he attempted many tricks and strategies—even copying that which Cyrus the Great had employed when he captured Babylon. However, the situation changed in Darius's favour when, according to the story, a mule owned by Zopyrus, a high-ranking soldier, foaled. Following this, a plan was hatched for Zopyrus to pretend to be a deserter, enter the Babylonian camp, and gain the trust of the Babylonians. The plan was successful and Darius's army eventually surrounded the city and overcame the rebels.\n\nDuring this revolt, Scythian nomads took advantage of the disorder and chaos and invaded Persia. Darius first finished defeating the rebels in Elam, Assyria, and Babylon and then attacked the Scythian invaders. He pursued the invaders, who led him to a marsh; there he found no known enemies but an enigmatic Scythian tribe.\n\nThe Scythians were a group of north Iranian nomadic tribes, speaking an Iranian language (Scythian languages) who had invaded Media, killed Cyrus in battle, revolted against Darius and threatened to disrupt trade between Central Asia and the shores of the Black Sea as they lived between the Danube River, River Don and the Black Sea.\n\nDarius crossed the Black Sea at the Bosphorus Straits using a bridge of boats. Darius conquered large portions of Eastern Europe, even crossing the Danube to wage war on the Scythians. Darius invaded European Scythia in 513 BC, where the Scythians evaded Darius's army, using feints and retreating eastwards while laying waste to the countryside, by blocking wells, intercepting convoys, destroying pastures and continuous skirmishes against Darius's army. Seeking to fight with the Scythians, Darius's army chased the Scythian army deep into Scythian lands, where there were no cities to conquer and no supplies to forage. In frustration Darius sent a letter to the Scythian ruler Idanthyrsus to fight or surrender. The ruler replied that he would not stand and fight with Darius until they found the graves of their fathers and tried to destroy them. Until then, they would continue their strategy as they had no cities or cultivated lands to lose. Despite the evading tactics of the Scythians, Darius' campaign was so far relatively successful. As presented by Herodotus, the tactics used by the Scythians resulted in the loss of their best lands and of damage to their loyal allies. This gave Darius the initiative. As he moved eastwards in the cultivated lands of the Scythians in Eastern Europe proper, he remained resupplied by his fleet and lived to an extent off the land. While moving eastwards in the European Scythian lands, he captured the large fortified city of the Budini, one of the allies of the Scythians, and burnt it.\n\nDarius eventually ordered a halt at the banks of Oarus, where he built \"eight great forts, some eight miles distant from each other\", no doubt as a frontier defence. In his \"Histories\", Herodotus states that the ruins of the forts were still standing in his day. After chasing the Scythians for a month, Darius's army was suffering losses due to fatigue, privation and sickness. Concerned about losing more of his troops, Darius halted the march at the banks of the Volga River and headed towards Thrace. He had conquered enough Scythian territory to force the Scythians to respect the Persian forces.\n\nDarius's European expedition was a major event in his reign, which began with the invasion of Thrace. Darius also conquered many cities of the northern Aegean, Paeonia, while Macedonia submitted voluntarily, after the demand of earth and water, becoming a vassal kingdom. He then left Megabyzus to conquer Thrace, returning to Sardis to spend the winter. The Greeks living in Asia Minor and some of the Greek islands had submitted to Persian rule already by 510 BCE. Nonetheless, there were certain Greeks who were pro-Persian, although these were largely based in Athens. To improve Greek-Persian relations, Darius opened his court and treasuries to those Greeks who wanted to serve him. These Greeks served as soldiers, artisans, statesmen and mariners for Darius. However, the increasing concerns amongst the Greeks over the strength of Darius's kingdom along with the constant interference by the Greeks in Ionia and Lydia were stepping stones towards the conflict that was yet to come between Persia and certain of the leading Greek city states.\n\nWhen Aristagoras organized the Ionian Revolt, Eretria and Athens supported him by sending ships and troops to Ionia and by burning Sardis. Persian military and naval operations to quell the revolt ended in the Persian reoccupation of Ionian and Greek islands, as well as the re-subjugation of Thrace and the conquering of Macedonia in 492 BC under Mardonius. Macedon had been a vassal kingdom of the Persians since the late 6th century BC, but retained autonomy. Mardonius' 492 campaign made it a fully subordinate part of the Persian kingdom. These military actions, coming as a direct response to the revolt in Ionia, were the beginning of the First Persian invasion of (mainland) Greece. At the same time, anti-Persian parties gained more power in Athens, and pro-Persian aristocrats were exiled from Athens and Sparta. Darius responded by sending troops led by his son-in-law across the Hellespont. However, a violent storm and harassment by the Thracians forced the troops to return to Persia. Seeking revenge on Athens and Eretria, Darius assembled another army of 20,000 men under his Admiral, Datis, and his nephew Artaphernes, who met success when they captured Eretria and advanced to Marathon. In 490 BCE, at the Battle of Marathon, the Persian army was defeated by a heavily armed Athenian army, with 9,000 men who were supported by 600 Plataeans and 10,000 lightly armed soldiers led by Miltiades.\n\nThe defeat at Marathon marked the end of the first Persian invasion of Greece. Darius began preparations for a second force which he would command, instead of his generals; however, before the preparations were complete, Darius died, thus leaving the task to his son Xerxes.\n\nDarius was the son of Hystaspes and the grandson of Arsames. Both men belonged to the Achaemenid tribe and were still alive when Darius ascended the throne. Darius justifies his ascension to the throne with his lineage. He claimed he could trace his ancestors back to Achaemenes, even though he was only distantly related. With this in mind, Darius married Atossa, daughter of Cyrus, with whom he had four sons: Xerxes, Achaemenes, Masistes and Hystaspes. He also married Artystone, another daughter of Cyrus, with whom he had two sons, Arsames and Gobryas. Darius married Parmys, the daughter of Bardiya, with whom he had a son, Ariomardus. Furthermore, Darius married Phratagune, with whom he had two sons, Abrokomas and Hyperantes. He also married another woman of the nobility, Phaidyme, the daughter of Otanes. It is unknown if he had any children with her. Before these royal marriages, Darius had married an unknown daughter of his good friend and lance carrier Gobryas from an early marriage, with whom he had three sons, Artobazanes, Ariabignes and Arsamenes. Any daughters he had with her are not known. Although Artobazanes was Darius's first-born, Xerxes became heir and the next king through the influence of Atossa; she had great authority in the kingdom as Darius loved her the most of all his wives.\n\nAfter becoming aware of the Persian defeat at the Battle of Marathon, Darius began planning another expedition against the Greek-city states; this time, he, not Datis, would command the imperial armies. Darius had spent three years preparing men and ships for war when a revolt broke out in Egypt. This revolt in Egypt worsened his failing health and prevented the possibility of his leading another army. Soon after, Darius died. In October 486 BCE, the body of Darius was embalmed and entombed in the rock-cut sepulchre that had been prepared for him several years earlier.\n\nXerxes, the eldest son of Darius and Atossa, succeeded to the throne as Xerxes I; however, prior to Xerxes's accession, he contested the succession with his elder half-brother Artobarzanes, Darius's eldest son who was born to his commoner first wife before Darius rose to power.\n\nIn 1923 German archaeologist Ernst Herzfeld made casts of the cuneiform inscriptions on Darius's tomb where he records his Persian ancestry for posterity, “parsa parsahya puthra ariya ariyachitra”, meaning, “a Persian, the son of a Persian, an Aryan, of Aryan family (Inscription at Naqsh-i-Rustam, near Persepolis, Iran). They are currently housed in the archives of the Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC.\n\nEarly in his reign, Darius wanted to reorganize the structure of the empire and reform the system of taxation he inherited from Cyrus and Cambyses. To do this, Darius created twenty provinces called satrapies (or \"archi\") which were each assigned to a satrap (\"archon\") and specified fixed tributes that the satrapies were required to pay. A complete list is preserved in the catalogue of Herodotus, beginning with Ionia and listing the other satrapies from west to east excluding Persis which was the land of the Persians and the only province which was not a conquered land. Tributes were paid in both silver and gold talents.\n\nTributes in silver from each satrap were measured with the Babylonian talent. Those paid in gold were measured with the Euboic talent. The total tribute from the satraps came to an amount less than 15,000 silver talents.\n\nThe majority of the satraps were of Persian origin and were members of the royal house or the six great noble families. These satraps were personally picked by Darius to monitor these provinces. Each of these provinces were divided into sub-provinces with their own governors which were chosen either by the royal court or by the satrap. To assess tributes, a commission evaluated the expenses and revenues of each satrap. To ensure that one person did not gain too much power, each satrap had a secretary who observed the affairs of the state and communicated with Darius, a treasurer who safeguarded provincial revenues and a garrison commander who was responsible for the troops. Additionally, royal inspectors who were the \"eyes and ears\" of Darius completed further checks on each satrap.\n\nThe imperial administration was coordinated by the chancery with headquarters at Persepolis, Susa, and Babylon with Bactria, Ecbatana, Sardis, Dascylium and Memphis having branches. Darius chose Aramaic as a common language, which soon spread throughout the empire. However, Darius gathered a group of scholars to create a separate language system only used for Persis and the Persians, which was called Aryan script which was only used for official inscriptions.\n\nDarius introduced a new universal currency, the daric, sometime before 500 BCE. Darius used the coinage system as a transnational currency to regulate trade and commerce throughout his empire. The Daric was also recognized beyond the borders of the empire, in places such as Celtic Central Europe and Eastern Europe. There were two types of darics, a gold daric and a silver daric. Only the king could mint gold darics. Important generals and satraps minted silver darics, the latter usually to recruit Greek mercenaries in Anatolia. The daric was a major boost to international trade. Trade goods such as textiles, carpets, tools and metal objects began to travel throughout Asia, Europe and Africa. To further improve trade, Darius built the Royal Road, a postal system and Phoenician-based commercial shipping.\n\nThe daric also improved government revenues as the introduction of the daric made it easier to collect new taxes on land, livestock and marketplaces. This led to the registration of land which was measured and then taxed. The increased government revenues helped maintain and improve existing infrastructure and helped fund irrigation projects in dry lands. This new tax system also led to the formation of state banking and the creation of banking firms. One of the most famous banking firms was Murashu Sons, based in the Babylonian city of Nippur. These banking firms provided loans and credit to clients.\n\nIn an effort to further improve trade, Darius built canals, underground waterways and a powerful navy. He further improved and expanded the network of roads and way stations throughout the empire, so that there was a system of travel authorization for the King, satraps and other high officials, which entitled the traveller to draw provisions at daily stopping places.\n\nWhile there is no absolute consensus about the adherence of the kings before Darius, such as Cyrus and Cambyses, it is well established that Darius was an adherent of Zoroastrianism or at least a firm believer in Ahura Mazda. As can be seen at the Behistun Inscription, Darius believed that Ahura Mazda had appointed him to rule the Achaemenid Empire. Darius had dualistic philosophical convictions and believed that each rebellion in his kingdom was the work of druj, the enemy of Asha. Darius believed that because he lived righteously by Asha, Ahura Mazda supported him. In many cuneiform inscriptions denoting his achievements, he presents himself as a devout believer, perhaps even convinced that he had a divine right to rule over the world.\n\nIn the lands that were conquered by his empire, Darius followed the same Achaemenid tolerance that Cyrus had shown and later Achaemenid kings would show. He supported faiths and religions that were \"alien\" as long as the adherents were submissive and peaceable, sometimes giving them grants from his treasury for their purposes. He had funded the restoration of the Israelite temple which had originally been decreed by Cyrus, was supportive towards Greek cults which can be seen in his letter to Gadatas, and supported Elamite priests. He had also observed Egyptian religious rites related to kingship and had built the temple for the Egyptian god, Amun.\n\nSome scholars identify Dhul-Qarnayn, a figure mentioned in Quran, with Darius.\n\nDuring Darius's Greek expedition, he had begun construction projects in Susa, Egypt and Persepolis. He had linked the Red Sea to the river Nile by building a canal (Darius Canal) which ran from modern Zaqāzīq to modern Suez. To open this canal, he travelled to Egypt in 497 BCE, where the inauguration was carried out with great fanfare and celebration. Darius also built a canal to connect the Red Sea and Mediterranean. On this visit to Egypt he erected monuments and executed Aryandes on the charge of treason. When Darius returned to Persis, he found that the codification of Egyptian law had been finished.\n\nAdditionally, Darius sponsored large construction projects in Susa, Babylon, Egypt, and Persepolis. In Susa, Darius built a new palace complex in the north of the city. An inscription states that the palace was destroyed during the reign of Artaxerxes I, but was rebuilt. Today only glazed bricks of the palace remain, the majority of them in the Louvre. In Pasargadae Darius finished all incomplete construction projects from the reign of Cyrus the Great. A palace was also built during the reign of Darius, with an inscription in the name of Cyrus the Great. It was previously believed that Cyrus had constructed this building, however due to the cuneiform script being used, the palace is believed to have been constructed by Darius.\n\nIn Egypt Darius built many temples and restored those that had previously been destroyed. Even though Darius was a Zoroastrian, he built temples dedicated to the Gods of the Ancient Egyptian religion. Several temples found were dedicated to Ptah and Nekhbet. Darius also created several roads and routes in Egypt. The monuments that Darius built were often inscribed in the official languages of the Persian Empire, Old Persian, Elamite and Babylonian and Egyptian hieroglyphs. To construct these monuments Darius employed a large number of workers and artisans of diverse nationalities. Several of these workers were deportees who had been employed specifically for these projects. These deportees enhanced the empire's economy and improved inter-cultural relations. At the time of Darius's death construction projects were still under way. Xerxes completed these works and in some cases expanded his father's projects by erecting new buildings of his own.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596865", "title": "David Mills (author)", "text": "David Mills (author)\n\nDavid Mills (born January 24, 1959) is an American author. Mills has argued that science and religion cannot be successfully reconciled. He is best known for his book \"Atheist Universe\" which was published in 2004. In his book \"The God Delusion\", evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins cites Mills' writings as \"admirable work.\" Mills claims in his books to rebut both young- and old-earth creation science, as well as Intelligent Design.\n\nMills has been interviewed on multiple talk shows including The Infidel Guy, WBAI in New York, on Air America Radio, and elsewhere. He is also a self-proclaimed member of the Rational Response Squad.\n\nHe currently lives in Huntington, West Virginia, and ran for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35501755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35501755", "title": "Di inferi", "text": "Di inferi\n\nThe di inferi or dii inferi (Latin, \"the gods below\") were a shadowy collective of ancient Roman deities associated with death and the underworld. The epithet \"inferi\" is also given to the mysterious Manes, a collective of ancestral spirits. The most likely origin of the word \"Manes\" is from \"manus\" or \"manis\" (more often in Latin as its antonym \"immanis\"), meaning \"good\" or \"kindly,\" which was a euphemistic way to speak of the \"inferi\" so as to avert their potential to harm or cause fear.\n\nVarro (1st century BC) distinguishes among the \"di superi\" (\"gods above\"), whose sites for offerings are called \"altaria\"; the \"di terrestres\" (\"terrestrial gods\"), whose altars are \"arae\"; and \"di inferi\", to whom offerings are made by means of \"foci\", \"hearths,\" on the ground or in a pit. In general, animal sacrifice to gods of the upper world usually resulted in communal meals, with the cooked victim apportioned to divine and human recipients. Infernal gods, by contrast, received burnt offerings (holocausts), in which the sacrificial victims were burnt to ash, because the living were prohibited from sharing a meal with the dead. This prohibition is reflected also in funeral rites, where the deceased's passage into the realm of the dead is marked with a holocaust to his Manes at his tomb, while his family returns home to share a sacrificial meal at which his exclusion from the feast was ritually pronounced. Thereafter, he was considered part of the collective Manes, sharing in the sacrifices made to them.\n\nThus victims for public sacrifices were most often domesticated animals that were a normal part of the Roman diet, while offerings of victims the Romans considered inedible, such as horses and puppies, mark a chthonic aspect of the deity propitiated, whether or not the divinity belonged to the underworld entirely. Secret ritual practices characterized as \"magic\" were often holocausts directed at underworld gods, and puppies were a not uncommon offering, especially to Hecate. \"Di inferi\" were often invoked in binding spells \"(defixiones)\", which offer personal enemies to them. The infernal gods were also the recipients on the rare occasions when human sacrifice was carried out in Rome. The ritual of \"devotio\", when a general pledged his own life as an offering along with the enemy, was directed at the gods of the underworld under the name \"Di Manes\".\n\nReligious sites and rituals for the \"di inferi\" were properly outside the \"pomerium\", Rome's sacred boundary, as were tombs. Horse racing along with the propitiation of underworld gods was characteristic of \"old and obscure\" Roman festivals such as the Consualia, the October Horse, the Taurian Games, and sites in the Campus Martius such as the Tarentum and the Trigarium. The Taurian Games were celebrated specifically to propitiate the \"di inferi\".\n\nThe rarely raced three-horse chariot \"(triga\", from which the \"trigarium\", as a generic term for \"field for equestrian exercise\", took its name) was sacred to the \"di inferi\". According to Isidore of Seville, the three horses represented the three stages of a human life: childhood, youth, and old age.\n\nIn the Etruscan tradition of tree divination, the \"di inferi\" were the tutelaries of certain trees and shrubs, on one list the buckthorn, red cornel, fern, black fig, \"those that bear a black berry and black fruit,\" holly, woodland pear, butcher's broom, briar, and brambles.\" The wood of these trees, called \"arbores infelices\" (\"inauspicious trees\"), had apotropaic powers and was used for burning objects regarded as ill omens.\n\nThe early Christian poet Prudentius regarded the \"di inferi\" as integral to the ancestral religion of Rome, and criticized the gladiatorial games held for them as representative of the underworld gods' inhumane and horrifying nature. To Prudentius, the other Roman gods were merely false, easily explained as euhemerized mortals, but an act of devotion to the \"di inferi\" constituted devil worship, because Christians assimilated the \"di inferi\" to their beliefs pertaining to Hell and the figure variously known as the Devil, Satan, or Lucifer.\n\nThe following list includes deities who were thought to dwell in the underworld, or whose functions mark them as primarily or significantly chthonic or concerned with death. They typically receive nocturnal sacrifices, or dark-colored animals as offerings. Other deities may have had a secondary or disputed chthonic aspect. Rituals pertaining to Mars, particularly in a form influenced by Etruscan tradition, suggest a role in the cycle of birth and death. Mercury moves between the realms of upper- and underworld as a psychopomp. The agricultural god Consus had an altar that was underground, like that of Dis and Proserpina. Deities concerned with birth are often cultivated like death deities, with nocturnal offerings that suggest a theological view of birth and death as a cycle.\n\nThe deities listed below are not to be regarded as collectively forming the \"di inferi\", whose individual identities are obscure.\n"}
{"id": "29066388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29066388", "title": "Dual fulfillment", "text": "Dual fulfillment\n\nThe dual fulfilment of prophecy (British English) or dual fulfillment (American English) or dual prophecy or duality in prophecy or present and future application is the mainly Christian idea that some prophecies in the Bible have both a short-term and long-term fulfilment.\n\nExamples include the Immanuel prophecy in , which is understood as referring in its first fulfilment to the birth, dated at the time of Isaiah, of a child who would be a sign to Ahaz of the impending destruction of Rezin and Pekah by Tiglath Pileser III, often with the associated interpretation that the child to be born is Ahaz' heir, Hezekiah and the maiden Abijah, daughter of Zechariah. The same reasoning is also extended to the Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace prophecy which occurs in the following chapter.\n\nIn such examples Messianic dual fulfilment is often related to concepts of Messianic typology in the Old Testament.\n\nSome commentators see a secondary fulfilment of the prophecies concerning the Siege of Jerusalem (587 BC) with the events of the Siege of Jerusalem (70).\n\nAnother area of perceived dual fulfilment is the overlapping fulfilment of short-term and long-term elements in the Olivet Prophecy. Events such as the siege of Jerusalem, Antiochus Epiphanes' sacrifice of a pig on the altar and the destruction of the Second Temple by Titus Flavius are seen by some Christians as only partial fulfilment of Matthew 24. The idea of dual fulfilment in this case is disputed by some Preterists.\n"}
{"id": "23982000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982000", "title": "Education for Ministry", "text": "Education for Ministry\n\nEducation for Ministry (EfM) is a program of theological education-at-a-distance which originated at the University of the South School of Theology, while Urban Tigner Holmes III was dean, drawing on the work of the Jesuit Bernard Longeran. It was previously known as Theological Education by Extension (TEE). While the program is not exclusive to the Episcopal Church, it is mainly found in parishes of that church. It is a four-year program covering the Old and New Testament, ecclesiastical history, and theology. Participants receive 18 continuing education units from the University of the South for each year's work. Persons seeking either ordained or lay ministries may enroll.\n\nIt is used in many dioceses of the Anglican Communion in North America and throughout the world (students are active in Australia, Central America, Europe, New Zealand, South America and the United Kingdom, as well as Canada and the US), from progressive to traditional, and Anglo-Catholic to evangelical, including Southern Ohio (Cincinnati), Massachusetts (Boston), Springfield, Illinois, Canada, Central Pennsylvania, and Albany, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "6969803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6969803", "title": "Gurmukh", "text": "Gurmukh\n\nGurmukh (Punjabi: ਗੁਰਮੁਖ) means \"Coming from the persona of the Guru\" or \"To be in the character or personality of the Guru\" and implies to be god centered.\n\nThe higher spiritual meaning is one who has met the Guru within, in meditation and remains in the will of the Guru or attempts to follow the Guru's teachings wholeheartedly. In daily life, it describes one who is living a wholesome life in support of the spirit, as instructed by the Guru.\n\nThe word \"Gurmukh\" is a common word and is found frequently throughout \"Gurbani\" (compositions of the Sikh Gurus)\n\nIn contrast, a \"Manmukh\" is one who follows the dictates of the mind - indulging in the senses, animal behaviors, greed, corruption, and the base desires of the mind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36899449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36899449", "title": "Huitztlampaehecatl", "text": "Huitztlampaehecatl\n\nIn Aztec mythology Huitztlampaehecatl () is the god of the South wind. His brothers are Cihuatecayotl, Tlalocayotl, and Mictlanpachecatl, who personify the winds from the west, east, and north respectively.\n\nNotos\n\nAuster\n"}
{"id": "27871912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27871912", "title": "Indriði Indriðason", "text": "Indriði Indriðason\n\nIndriði Indriðason (October 12, 1883 - August 31, 1912) was an Icelandic spiritualist medium. He was the first medium documented in Iceland and his discovery was a major impetus to the establishment of spiritualism there.\n\nIndriði was raised on a remote farm and was uneducated. At 22, he moved to Reykjavík to work at a newspaper as a printer's apprentice. The wife of the relative at whose house he was living was interested in the Experimental Society that Einar Hjörleifsson Kvaran had established to investigate spiritualist claims; early in 1905 she brought him with her to a session and when he participated in a table-tilting experiment, she claimed the table moved \"violently\".\n\nThe Experimental Society was formalized in fall 1905 in order to investigate Indriði. It paid him a salary and he was required not to give séances without its permission. He moved into Kvaran's home, and then in 1907 the Society built an Experimental House for him to provide maximally controlled conditions for observing him. He lived there with a theology student. After a visit to the Westman Islands in September 1907, according to Spiritualists, he was increasingly troubled by poltergeist phenomena and members of the Society had to spend the night in the room.\n\nStarting in spring 1905, Indriði complained that he did not like the experiments, \"and in fact never had, as he felt drained and tired as a result of them. He started to sleep badly, complained about headaches, and became a bit depressed. He planned to go to America and leave the circle for good.\". In context \"America\" meant New Iceland in Canada. He fell ill then, and experienced a sudden serious illness in February the next year. In summer 1909 he visited his parents and he and his fiancée, Jóna Guðnadóttir, caught typhoid fever. She died; Indriði never fully recovered and did not participate in any further research. He married someone else, but their daughter died before her second birthday, and Indriði himself died of tuberculosis in the Vífilsstaðir sanatorium on August 31, 1912.\n\nAccording to proponents, Indriði had immediate success with automatic writing. He first entered a trance later in spring 1905. He claimed to see shadowy beings, of whom he was afraid.\n\nIn November 1905, he was allegedly able to levitate. According to Spiritualist accounts, Indriði himself sometimes bumped his head on the ceiling and complained about hurting his head, and on at least two occasions the neighbors' complaints about noise when he crashed back to the floor required relocating the experiments to someone else's apartment. Allegedly a control personality emerged who claimed to be Konráð Gíslason, Indriði's grandfather's brother, who had been a professor of Icelandic language at the University of Copenhagen.\n\nSpiritualist believers claimed that in the first year of experimentation, knocks were heard on the wall and lights manifested, initially as flashes or spots in the air or on walls, up to 58 at a time, of various sizes, shapes, and colors, and in early December 1905, a man appeared in the light. Their accounts report that the lights, which \"as in all his major phenomena, seemed to cause [Indriði] much pain,\" so that he would \"shriek and scream\" and complain after the séances that he \"felt as if he had been beaten up,\" stopped at Christmas but resumed in December 1906, when a man again appeared in the light and claimed to be a discarnate Dane named Mr. Jensen. The man supposedly appeared several times in a pillar of light that observers described as very beautiful, while Indriði this time sat in a trance. Proponents defend the genuineness of the phenomena, saying that no equipment capable of producing the lights was available in Reykjavík, and the Kvarans attested that Indriði had only a single footlocker with no lock, and they and others searched him and kept him under observation.\n\nSpiritualists claim that on his first appearance, Jensen spoke audibly, asking \"in a typical Copenhagen accent\" whether people could see him and that he was also palpable: he attempted to touch people and let them touch him. According to their accounts, in January 1908, a being named Sigmundur manifested, audible at some distance from Indriði. Spiritualists report that after that there were occasions when several voices were heard around Indriði while he was visiting his fiancée on a farm, including one outdoors in broad daylight when multiple different voices spoke to him and each other, in immediate succession and even simultaneously. Proponents say that an observer who suspected him of ventriloquism reported that he once heard a male and female voice singing simultaneously in a skillful and trained manner, a supposedly impossible feat for Indriði, who was described as an untrained singer who used to sing in the cathedral choir. Believers cited an anecdotal story that a friend tried to trap Indriði by singing a duet with one of the voices and setting the pitch uncomfortably high, but concluded it was \"very improbable that there was in the whole town a singer who could\" have sung as well as the voice did.\n\nSpiritualists considered Indriði primarily a physical medium, and say he correctly reported pieces of information, such as a big fire in Copenhagen.\n\nIn winter 1906-07, the Society held \"apport séances\" in Kvaran's home during which Indriði allegedly materialized objects from all over Reykjavík. He himself was also reportedly teleported from one locked room to another on one occasion.\n\nProponents claim that Indriði's left arm \"dematerialized\" several times in December 1906 and that up to seven witnesses at a time swore that they could not find it, even striking matches and shining lights on his body.\n\nAfter Indriði's visit to the Westman Islands in September 1907, Spiritualists say he was plagued by poltergeist and levitation phenomena that he and his controls attributed to a man named Jón, whom he had seen and made insulting remarks about. Supposedly, Indriði and the wicker chair he was sitting in were carried over two rows of people; the harmonium moved while the organist was playing it; at night, Indriði's bed and Indriði himself were levitated. According to the story, observers were unable to hold his legs down or on one occasion to prevent his being dragged into another room. It was claimed that objects were thrown around the bedroom of the Experimental House and to a lesser extent at Kvaran's house, breaking lamps and wash-basins and causing the observers to grab Indriði and flee. According to Haraldur Níelsson's account to the Second International Congress for Psychical Research, Jón was thought to be a recent suicide.\n\nProponents dismissed accusations of fraud against Indriði as not coming from first-hand witnesses. Believers included Guðmundur Hannesson, founder of the Icelandic Scientific Society and twice president of the University of Iceland. Another was Haraldur Níelsson, a Spiritist and active member of the Spiritualist Society of Iceland, who was at the time the nephew of the Bishop of Iceland and wrote on Indriði and presented on him at international Spiritualist conferences.\n\nThe Experimental Society's claims of Indriði's alleged abilities were the topics of controversy in the Icelandic press. \"Fjallkonen\" condemned a supposed \"healing operation\" in which an individual died after Indriði attempted to cure him of cancer, as \"outrageous\" and an \"offense\". \"Reykjavik\" described Indriði as an \"unstable, unreliable charlatan\". Later, when Kvaren and Indriði went on lecture tours, the newspaper accused them of cheating and misrepresentation. Kvaren and other proponents responded by saying the accusations were religiously motivated and untrue, and claimed that Indriði had genuine paranormal abilities.\n\nNewspapers of the time continued to publish scathing critiques of Indriði, describing Spiritualism as \"ludicrous ghost-religion\" and \"nonsensical, ridiculous vanity\". Modern day religious scholars consider Indriði's widespread popularity responsible for launching the Spiritualist movement in Iceland in the early 20th century, and Indriði proponent's views, such as Haraldur Níelsson's, as \"an eccentric mix of scientific and supernatural beliefs typical of Spiritualism worldwide\".\n\nAntônio da Silva Mello has criticized the experiments conducted with Indriðason as non-scientific. He noted they were performed in the dark and it was suspicious as Indriðason refused to take off his shirt so his body could be examined after a séance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30300469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30300469", "title": "Islam and war", "text": "Islam and war\n\nFrom the time of the Muhammad, the final prophet of Islam, many Muslim states and empires have been involved in warfare. The concept of jihad, the religious duty to struggle, has long been associated with violent struggles with non-Muslims, although many observers refer to such struggle as \"the lesser jihad\" by comparison with inner spiritual striving. Islamic jurisprudence on war differentiates between illegitimate and legitimate warfare and prescribes proper and improper conduct by combatants. Numerous armed anticolonial military campaigns were waged as jihads.\n\nThe earliest forms of warfare by Muslims occurred after the migration (hijra) of Muhammad and his small group of followers to Medina from Mecca and the conversion of several inhabitants of the city to Islam. At this time, Muslims had been persecuted and oppressed by the Meccans. There were still Muslims who could not flee from Mecca and were still oppressed because of their faith. The Meccans also refused to let the Muslims enter Mecca and by that denied them access to the Ka'aba.\n\nMajor battles in the history of Islam arose between the Meccans and the Muslims; one of the most important to the latter was the Battle of Badr in 624 AD. This Muslim victory over polytheists showed \"demonstration of divine guidance and intervention on behalf of Muslims, even when outnumbered.\" Other early battles included battles in Uhud (625), Khandaq (627), Mecca (630) and Hunayn (630). These battles, especially Uhud and Khandaq, were unsuccessful in comparison to the Battle of Badr. In relating this battle, the Qu'ran states that Allah sent an \"unseen army of angels\" that helped the Muslims defeat the Meccans.\n\nIslamic concepts concerning war refer to what have been accepted in Sharia (Islamic law) and Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) by \"Ulama\" (Islamic scholars) as the correct Islamic manner which is expected to be obeyed by Muslims in times of war. Some scholars and Muslim religious figures claim that armed struggle based on Islamic principles is referred to as the Lesser jihad. The basic principle in fighting is that other communities should be treated as one's own. Fighting is justified for legitimate self-defense, to aid other Muslims, and after a violation in the terms of a treat; but should be stopped if these circumstances cease to exist. The principle of forgiveness is reiterated in between the assertions of the right to self-defense.\n\nThe European crusaders re-conquered much of the territory seized by the Islamic state, dividing it into four kingdoms, the most important being the state of Jerusalem. The Crusades originally had the goal of recapturing Jerusalem and the Holy Land (former Christian territory) from Muslim rule and were originally launched in response to a call from the Eastern Orthodox Byzantine Empire for help against the expansion of the Muslim Seljuk Turks into Anatolia. There was little drive to retake the lands from the crusaders, save the few attacks made by the Egyptian Fatimids. This changed, however, with the coming of Zangi, ruler of what is today northern Iraq. He took Edessa, which triggered the Second Crusade, which was little more than a 47-year stalemate. The stalemate was ended with the victory of Salah al-Din al-Ayyubi (known in the west as Saladin) over the forces of Jerusalem at the Horns of Hattin in 1187. It was during the course of the stalemate that a great deal of literature regarding Jihad was written. While amassing his armies in Syria, Saladin had to create a doctrine which would unite his forces and make them fight until the bitter end, which would be the only way they could re-conquer the lands taken in the First Crusade. It stated that any one who would abandon the Jihad would be committing a sin that could not be washed away by any means. It also put his amirs at the center of power, just under his rule.\n\nSir Jadunath Sarkar contends that several Muslim invaders were waging a systematic Jihad against Hindus in India to the effect that \"Every device short of massacre in cold blood was resorted to in order to convert heathen subjects.\" In particular the records kept by al-Utbi, Mahmud al-Ghazni's secretary, in the Tarikh-i-Yamini document several episodes of bloody military campaigns. In the late tenth century, a story spread that before Muhammad destroyed the idols at the Kaaba, that of Manāt was secretly sent to a Hindu temple in India; and the place was renamed as \"So-Manāt\" or \"Somnath\". Acting on this, the Shiva idol at the Somnath temple was destroyed in a raid by Mahmud Ghazni in CE 1024; which is considered the first act of Jihad in India. In 1527, Babur ordered a Jihad against Rajputs and Meenas at the battle of Khanwa. Publicly addressing his men, he declared the forthcoming battle a Jihad. His soldiers were facing a non-Muslim army for the first time ever. This, he said, was their chance to become either a \"Ghazi\" (soldier of Islam) or a \"Shaheed\" (Martyr of Islam). The Mughal emperor Aurangzeb waged a Jihad against those identified as heterodox within India's Islamic community, such as Shi'a Muslims.\n\nAfter the Spanish reconquered Granada from the Moors in 1492, many Moors exiled from the Spanish Inquisition fled to North Africa. After attacks against Spanish shipping took place from North Africa, the Spanish retaliated by seizing Oran, Algiers, and Tunis. By 1518, the pirates were serving in the navies of North African Sultans, conducting activities that included attacks on enemy (especially Christian) trade and raiding European coastlines for potential slaves. However, by 1587, their activity became much more decentralized, and more like traditional piracy.\n\nMuch of the Barbary activity was funded through the enslavement of European Christians. In the beginning of the 17th Century, there were more than 20,000 captives to be sold into slavery in Algiers alone. Although people from all over Christendom suffered Barbary attacks, the people who were the most likely victims were from Sicily. However, any Christian nation that refused to pay tribute to Islam and either the Sultanate of Morocco, Eyalet of Tripolitania, or the Regency of Algiers could have been subject to attack.\n\nIn 1800, the Eyalet of Tripolitania demanded an increase of tribute in order to \"prevent\" future attacks against the fledgling United States. However, the U.S. refused to pay the tribute, and this led to the First Barbary War. When the U.S. defeated the Tripolitanians in the Battle of Derne in 1805, the two nations signed a treaty that had favorable terms for the United States. However, a resurgence in Barbary attacks in 1815 led to the U.S. Navy being used again in the Second Barbary War, which also resulted in a US victory and the ceasing of all Barbary attacks on American shipping without tribute.\n\nUpon succeeding his father, Suleiman the Magnificent began a series of military conquests in Europe. On August 29, 1526, he defeated Louis II of Hungary (1516–26) at the battle of Mohács. In its wake, Hungarian resistance collapsed and the Ottoman Empire became the preeminent power in South-Eastern Europe. In July 1683 Sultan Mehmet IV proclaimed a Jihad and the Turkish grand vizier, Kara Mustafa Pasha, laid siege to Vienna with an army of 138,000 men.\n\nOn November 14, 1914, in Constantinople, capital of the Ottoman Empire, the religious leader Sheikh-ul-Islam declares Jihad on behalf of the Ottoman government, urging Muslims all over the world—including in the Allied countries—to take up arms against Britain, Russia, France, Serbia and Montenegro in World War I. On the other hand, Sheikh Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca, refused to accommodate Ottoman requests that he endorse this jihad, a requirement that was necessary were a jihad to become popular, due to British pressure and on the grounds that:'the Holy War was doctrinally incompatible with an aggressive war, and absurd with a Christian ally: Germany'\n\nAhmad Shah, founder of the Durrani Empire, declared a jihad against the Marathas, and warriors from various Pashtun tribes, as well as other tribes answered his call. The Third battle of Panipat (January 1761), fought between largely Muslim and largely Hindu armies who numbered as many as 100,000 troops each, was waged along a twelve-kilometre front, and resulted in a victory for Ahmad Shah.\n\nIn response to the Hazara uprising of 1892, the Afghan Emir Abdur Rahman Khan declared a \"Jihad\" against the Shiites. The large army defeated the rebellion at its center, in Oruzgan, by 1892 and the local population was severely massacred. According to S. A. Mousavi, \"thousands of Hazara men, women, and children were sold as slaves in the markets of Kabul and Qandahar, while numerous towers of human heads were made from the defeated rebels as a warning to others who might challenge the rule of the Amir\". Until the 20th century, some Hazaras were still kept as slaves by the Pashtuns; although Amanullah Khan banned slavery in Afghanistan during his reign, the tradition carried on unofficially for many more years.\n\nThe Saudi Salafi sheiks were convinced that it was their religious mission to wage Jihad against all other forms of Islam. In 1801 or 1802, the Saudi Wahhabists under Abdul Aziz ibn Muhammad ibn Saud attacked and captured the holy Shia cities of Karbala and Najaf in Iraq, massacred the Shiites and destroyed the tombs of the Shiite Imam Husayn and Ali bin Abu Talib. In 1802 they overtook Taif. In 1803 and 1804 the Wahhabis overtook Mecca and Medina.\n\nThe Fula or Fulani jihads, were a series of independent but loosely connected events across West Africa between the late 17th century and European colonization, in which Muslim Fulas took control of various parts of the region. Between 1750 and 1900, one-third to two-thirds of the entire population of the Fulani jihad states consisted of slaves.\n\nIn 1784, Imam Sheikh Mansur, a Chechen warrior and Muslim mystic, led a coalition of Muslim Caucasian tribes from throughout the Caucasus in a ghazavat, or holy war, against the Russian invaders. Sheikh Mansur was captured in 1791 and died in the Schlüsselburg Fortress. Avarian Islamic scholar Ghazi Muhammad preached that Jihad would not occur until the Caucasians followed Sharia completely rather than following a mixture of Islamic laws and \"adat\" (customary traditions). By 1829, Mullah began proselytizing and claiming that obeying Sharia, giving zakat, prayer, and hajj would not be accepted by Allah if the Russians were still present in the area. He even went on to claim that marriages would become void and children bastards if any Russians were still in the Caucasus. In 1829 he was proclaimed imam in Ghimry, where he formally made the call for a holy war. In 1834, Ghazi Muhammad died at the battle of Ghimri, and Imam Shamil took his place as the premier leader of the Caucasian resistance. Imam Shamil succeeded in accomplishing what Sheik Mansur had started: to unite North Caucasian highlanders in their struggle against the Russian Empire. He was a leader of anti-Russian resistance in the Caucasian War and was the third Imam of Dagestan and Chechnya (1834–1859).\n\nDuring the 1870s, European initiatives against the slave trade caused an economic crisis in northern Sudan, precipitating the rise of Mahdist forces. Muhammad Ahmed Al Mahdi was a religious leader, who proclaimed himself the Mahdi—the prophesied redeemer of Islam who will appear at end times—in 1881, and declared a Jihad against Ottoman rulers. He declared all \"Turks\" infidels and called for their execution. The Mahdi raised an army and led a successful religious war to topple the Ottoman-Egyptian occupation of Sudan. Victory created an Islamic state, one that quickly reinstituted slavery. In the West he is most famous for defeating and later killing British general Charles George Gordon, in the fall of Khartoum.\n\nThe First Anglo-Afghan War (1838–42) was one of Britain's most ill-advised and disastrous wars. William Brydon was the sole survivor of the invading British army of 16,500 soldiers and civilians.\n\nThe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was also a disaster and considered to be their \"Vietnam\". The invasion and atrocities compelled the west into providing aid to the mujaheddin. The Russian invasion was also the historical event that provoked Osama Bin Laden into migrating to Afghanistan in 1979, the same year he graduated from University.\n\nAs in the earlier wars against the British and Soviets, Afghan resistance to the American invaders took the traditional form of a Muslim holy war against the infidels.\n\nDuring September 2002, the remnants of the Taliban forces began a recruitment drive in Pashtun areas in both Afghanistan and Pakistan to launch a renewed \"jihad\" or holy war against the pro-Western Afghan government and the US-led coalition. Pamphlets distributed in secret during the night also began to appear in many villages in the former Taliban heartland in southeastern Afghanistan that called for jihad. Small mobile training camps were established along the border with Pakistan by al-Qaeda and Taliban fugitives to train new recruits in guerrilla warfare and terrorist tactics, according to Afghan sources and a United Nations report.\n\nMost of the new recruits were drawn from the madrassas or religious schools of the tribal areas of Pakistan, from which the Taliban had originally arisen. As of 2008, the insurgency, in the form of a Taliban guerrilla war, continues.\n\nAlthough there is no evidence that the CIA directly supported the Taliban or Al Qaeda, some basis for military support of the Taliban was provided when, in the early 1980s, the CIA and the ISI (Pakistan's Interservices Intelligence Agency) provided arms to Afghan mujahideens resisting the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and the ISI assisted the process of gathering radical Muslims from around the world to fight against the Soviets. Osama Bin Laden was one of the key players in organizing training camps for the foreign Muslim volunteers.\n\nThe Soviets completely withdrew from Afghanistan by 1989, ending a war which had become an embarrassment for politicians in Moscow.\n\nIn 1830, Algeria was invaded by France; French colonial domination over Algeria supplanted what had been domination in name only by the Ottoman Empire. Within two years, Abd al-Qādir was made an \"amir\" and with the loyalty of a number of tribes began a jihad against the French. He was effective at using guerrilla warfare and for a decade, up until 1842, scored many victories. He was noted for his chivalry. On December 21, 1847, Abd al-Qādir was forced to surrender.\n\nAbd al-Qādir is recognized and venerated as the first hero of Algerian independence. Not without cause, his green and white standard was adopted by the Algerian Liberation Front during the War of Independence and became the national flag of independent Algeria.\n\nThe Algerian Civil War (1991–2002) was an armed conflict between the Algerian government and various Islamist rebel groups which began in 1991. By 1997, the organized jihad in Algeria had disintegrated into criminal thuggery and Algeria was wracked by massacres of intense brutality and unprecedented size.\n\nThe Cham Muslims under Katip Suma declared a Jihad against the Vietnamese invasion of Champa in 1832 under Emperor Minh Mang.\n\nTurkic Kokandi Uzbek Muslim forces under Yaqub Beg declared a Jihad against Chinese Muslims under T'o Ming during the Dungan revolt. Yaqub Beg enlisted non Muslim Han Chinese militia under Hsu Hsuehkung in order to fight against the Chinese Muslims. T'o Ming's forces were defeated by Yaqub, who planned to conquer Dzungharia. Yaqub intended to seize all Dungan territory.\n\nThe Boxer Rebellion was considered a Jihad by the Muslim Kansu Braves in the Chinese Imperial Army under Dong Fuxiang, fighting against the Eight-Nation Alliance.\n\nJihad was declared obligatory and a religious duty for all Chinese Muslims against Japan after 1937 during the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nAmong the Nazi leadership, the greatest interest in the idea of creating Muslim units under German command was shown by Heinrich Himmler, who viewed the Islamic world as a potential ally against the British Empire. Himmler had a romantic vision of Islam as a faith ‘fostering fearless soldiers’, and this probably played a significant role in his decision to raise three Muslim divisions under German leadership in the Balkans from Bosnian Muslims and Albanians: the Waffen SS 13th Handschar (\"Knife\"), the 23rd Kama (\"Dagger\") and the 21st Skenderbeg, although only Hanschar reached full division strength. The Skenderbeg was an Albanian unit of around 4,000 men, and the Kama was composed of Muslims from Bosnia, containing 3,793 men at its peak. The Handschar was the largest unit, around 20,000 Bosnian Muslim volunteers. Recruitment was aided by the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Haj Amin al-Husseini, who fled from British-controlled Palestine in 1941 to Baghdad and then to Berlin. He participated in the German war effort \"by broadcasting anti-British, jihadist propaganda to the Middle East and by recruiting Bosnian Muslims\" for the German Armed Forces or Wehrmacht.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\" states \"These Muslim volunteer units, called Handschar, were put in Waffen SS units, fought Yugoslav partisans in Bosnia and carried out police and security duties in Hungary. They participated in the massacre of civilians in Bosnia and volunteered to join in the hunt for Jews in Croatia.\" Part of the division also escorted Hungarian Jews from the forced labor in mine in Bor on their way back to Hungary. \"The division was also employed against Serbs, who as Orthodox Christians were seen by the Bosnian Muslims as enemies.\" Husseini asked that Muslim divisional operations to be restricted to the defense of the Moslem heartland of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Handschar earned a repute for brutality in ridding north-eastern Bosnia of Serbs and partisans: many local Muslims, observing the violence, were driven to go over to the communist partisans. Once redeployed outside Bosnia, and as the fortunes of war turned, mass defections and desertions took place, and Volksdeutsche were drafted to replace the losses.\n\nAll in the all, there were at least 70,000 Bosnian Muslims captured by the British. Some of these Muslim ex-soldiers participated in aiding Arabs in the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29265150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29265150", "title": "Jorge Ardila Serrano", "text": "Jorge Ardila Serrano\n\nJorge Ardila Serrano (September 17, 1927, Zapatoca, Colombia – October 12, 2010, Girardot, Colombia) was the Roman Catholic bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Girardot, Colombia.\n\nOrdained to the priesthood on October 17, 1948, he was appointed auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Bogota on October 27, 1980, and was ordained on November 30, 1980. In 1988, he was appointed bishop of the Girardot Diocese retiring in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "29703965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29703965", "title": "Keneder Adler", "text": "Keneder Adler\n\nDer Keneder Adler () was Canada's leading Yiddish newspaper from 1907 until 1988. Founded in Montreal by Hirsch Wolofsky, the \"Adler\" underpinned Yiddish cultural activity in the city for much of the 20th century.\n\nAfter losing his fruit store on St. Lawrence Boulevard to a fire, Hirsch Wolofsky founded the Eagle Publishing Company with the insurance money salvaged from the disaster. Within a month, the publishing company had established functional offices and housed Canada's first Yiddish linotype machine. The \"Keneder Adler\" published its first issue on 30 August 1907. While newspaper's status was precarious during its early years, appearing only biweekly after the fourth edition, the \"Adler\" began publishing daily as of October 1908.\n\nThe paper was funded by Mortimer B. Davis when it struggled again financially during the First World War. The \"Adler\" would have to pay Davis off after he sought to control the \"Keneder Adler\"'s editorial policy. In 1918, the \"Adler\" published its edition of the Babylonian Talmud, which became known as the \"Montrealer Shas\" ('The Montreal Talmud') and raised the newspaper's prestige.\n\nThe \"Adler\" served as a literary forum for Montreal's emerging Yiddish intelligentsia, as both a promoter of Yiddish literature and culture (through the efforts of J. I. Segal, in particular) and as a book publisher and distributor. A. A. Roback served as editor of \"Der Keneder Adler\" from 1908 to 1912, and Reuben Brainin as editor from 1912 to 1915, before departing for New York after a disagreement with Wolofsky. A. M. Klein maintained close ties with the paper, and authored the \"Adler\"'s English page from 1938 to 1941. Israel Medres's regular columns, \"Di vokh in kanade\" ('This Week in Canada') and \"Bilder in gerikht-zal\" ('Pictures in a Courtroom'), presented readers with accessible discussions of contemporary political and legal matters.\n\nAfter Wolofksy's death in 1949, the \"Adler\" was run by his son Max. The newspaper ceased publication in 1977, after unsuccessful reincarnations as a weekly and as a bilingual English–Yiddish publication. \n"}
{"id": "210798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210798", "title": "Lacandon", "text": "Lacandon\n\nThe Lacandon are one of the Maya peoples who live in the jungles of the Mexican state of Chiapas, near the southern border with Guatemala. Their homeland, the Lacandon Jungle, lies along the Mexican side of the Usumacinta River and its tributaries. The Lacandon are one of the most isolated and culturally conservative of Mexico's native peoples. Almost extinct in 1943, today their population has grown significantly, yet remains small, at approximately 650 speakers of the Lacandon language.\n\nThe Lacandon escaped Spanish control throughout the colonial era by living in small, remote farming communities in the jungles of what is now Chiapas and the Guatemalan department of El Petén, avoiding contact with whites and Ladinos. Lacandon customs remain close to those of their pre-Columbian Mesoamerican ancestors. As recently as the late 19th century some bound the heads of infants, resulting in the distinctively shaped foreheads seen in Classic Maya art. And well into the 20th century, they continued using bows and arrows and making arrowheads from flint they quarried in the rainforest. Today they sell versions of these to tourists.\n\nUntil the mid-20th century the Lacandon had little contact with the outside world. They worshiped their own pantheon of gods and goddesses in small huts set aside for religious worship at the edge of their villages. These sacred structures contain a shelf of clay incense burners, each decorated with the face of a Lacandon deity. The Lacandon also made pilgrimages to ancient Maya cities to pray and to remove stone pebbles from the ruins for ritual purposes. They believe that the Maya sites are places where their gods once dwelled before moving to new domains they constructed in the sky and below the earth. The Maya site of Bonampak, famous for its preserved temple murals, became known to the outside world when Lacandóns led American photographer Giles Healy there in 1946.\n\nA few Lacandon continue their traditional religious practices today, especially in the north around Lakes Naja and Metzabok. In the south, a yellow fever epidemic in the 1940s took many lives and caused a high degree of social disruption. The southern group abandoned their pantheon of gods in the 1950s and were later Christianized through the efforts of the Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL). Southern Lacandon helped SIL missionaries translate the New Testament and parts of the Old Testament into their language. But in the north the spiritual leader Chan K'in, who lived to an advanced age and died in 1996, helped keep the ancient traditions alive. Chan K'in urged his people to maintain a respectful distance from the outside world, taking some things of value, but not allowing outside influences to overwhelm the Lacandon way of life.\n\nThe Lacandon speak a Mayan language closely related to Yucatec Maya. In their own language they call themselves \"Hach Winik\" (\"Real People\", ) and they call their language \"Hach T'ana\" (\"Real Language\"). The Lacandón have long been traders with other Maya in the area and have adopted some words of Ch'ol and Tzeltal into their lexicon. They have also created their own unique styles of speaking Spanish in some cases. Details of the language of the northern group of Lacandon can be found at the Lacandon Cultural Heritage website.\n\nLacandon interaction with the outside world has accelerated over the past 30 years. In the 1970s, the Mexican government began paying them for rights to log timber in their forests, bringing them into closer contact with the national economy. At the same time, the government built roads into the area, establishing new villages of Tseltal and Ch'ol Indians who were far more exposed to the outside world than the Lacandon. The roads helped expand farming and logging, and severe deforestation occurred. Then, in the early 1990s, the Lacandon witnessed acts of violence during the Zapatista rebellion in Chiapas. The Zapatistas issued a series of statements of their principles, each called a \"Declaration of the Lacandon Jungle\".\n\nCasa Na Bolom in San Cristóbal de las Casas is devoted to helping the Lacandon cope with the changes imposed on them in recent decades. A scientific and cultural institute, it was founded in 1951 by archaeologist Frans Blom and his wife, photographer Gertrude \"Trudi\" Duby Blom. Casa Na Bolom (\"House of the Jaguar\") does advocacy work for the Lacandón, sponsors research on their history and culture, returns to them copies of photographs and other cultural documentation done by scholars over the years, and addresses environmental threats to the Lacandon Jungle, such as deforestation. Among its many projects, Casa Na Bolom has collaborated with a group of Swedish ethnomusicology students who recorded traditional Lacandón songs. A publication of those recordings in CD form is now planned.\n\nSeveral linguists and anthropologists have done extensive studies of Lacandon language and culture, including Phillip Baer, a missionary linguist with Summer Institute of Linguistics who lived among the Lacandon for more than 50 years, Roberto Bruce an American linguist who devoted his life to studying Lacandon language and culture, and Christian Rätsch who spent three years living with the Lacandon while studying their spells and incantations.\n\nThe first definite contact with the Lacandons occurred in the last decades of the 18th century. When scholars first investigated in the early 20th century, they thought that the Lacandon were the direct descendants of ancient Classic Maya people who fled into the rainforest at the time of the Spanish Conquest and remained linguistically and culturally pristine ever since. They made that assumption because the Lacandons' physical appearance and dress is so similar to the way the ancient Maya portrayed themselves in their murals and relief carvings. Scholars were also impressed by the fact that “the Lacandon resided near the remote ruins of ancient Mayan cities, had the knowledge to survive in the tropical jungle, and were neither Christian nor modernized”. They thought that these native people were pure Maya untouched by the outside world. But in recent years researchers have revealed a more complex history for the Lacandon.\n\nScholars have now shown that the Lacandon are the result of a coming together of various lowland Mayan refugee groups during the period of Spanish colonial rule. Their “language, clothing, and customs derive from several different Colonial Era Mayan ethnic groups”. It appears that the Lacandon possess multiple origins and that their culture arose as different lowland Mayan groups escaped Spanish rule and fled into the forest. There was a blending of cultural elements as some traits of varied origin were retained while others were lost. The Lacandon seem to have arisen as a distinct ethnic group as late as the 18th century, meaning that they “cannot be the direct descendants of the ancient Maya since their culture did not exist before it was generated through inter-indigenous interaction”. \n\nThe Lacandon seem to have originated in the Campeche and Petén regions of what is now Mexico and Guatemala and moved into the Lacandon rainforest at the end of the 18th century, a thousand years after the Classic Maya civilization collapsed. Unlike other indigenous peoples in Mesoamerica, though, they were not strongly affected by outside forces until the 19th century. While other Indians were living under the control of the Spanish, the Lacandon lived independently deep in the tropical forest. Their independence allowed them to manage their contact with the outside world in a controlled way. Preserving their ethnic identity was not as effortless, though. The Lacandon deliberately remained in small, isolated groups in order to resist change. They used their inaccessibility and dispersed settlement pattern to protect their traditions.\n\nOutsiders avoided the Lacandon region for centuries due to frightening legends about the dense tropical forest. The Spanish—and later the Mexicans, after they gained their independence—sometimes made efforts to settle the region, but failed due to the lack of financial and political support. For generations the only connections the Lacandon had to the outside world came through trade. The Lacandon “often initiated [trade and] sought metal tools, salt, cloth, and other European goods”. Outsiders, for their part, also desired goods from the forest, such as timber, animal skins, and fruits. Although trade was slow and infrequent, it did take place and it allowed for an intermingling of culture and material goods.\n\nIn the 19th century, outsiders looked toward the forest for valuable timber and new lands for farming. As the 19th century progressed, farmers and ranchers invaded the area, and the Lacandon withdrew farther into the forest, losing more and more land on the periphery of their territory. The Lacandon survived outright conquest, though, by adopting a flexible strategy that led them to accept, resist, or retreat from the imposing foreign culture depending on the circumstances.\n\nBy the late 20th century, though, the Lacandon were in frequent contact with outsiders within the area that had been their heartland. This resulted in territorial shifts, disease, and new powerful cultural influences. As logging began on a massive scale, the Lacandon came into contact often with forest workers, which resulted in wage work for some and an overall transformation of their culture, a process that continues to the present time. As development in the area took place, the Catholic Church established mission churches which converted many Lacandon. The Lacandon were drawn into the revolt of indigenous peoples that took place in the area in the 1980s and 1990s. They endured the pressure of cultural change as never before in their history. Their strategy of many generations to withdraw into the forest to preserve their traditional way of life now failed them.\n\nIn 1971 a Mexican presidential order turned 614,000 hectares over to the Lacandon Community, thereby recognizing the land rights of this relatively small group of indigenous forest dwellers over the more numerous settlers, who had been encouraged to colonize the Lacandon Forest under previous government policies. But this did not put an end to the Lacandons' troubles. Ironically, this effort to save Lacandon culture resulted in enduring tensions between the Lacandon and their neighbors.\n\nThroughout their history the ritual practices and beliefs of the Lacandon have shifted and evolved. Change has seemed more explicit as contact with the outside world has increased. Therefore, it is important to acknowledge the differences between Lacandon religious practices prior to increased contact (19th century) and those afterwards. As a culturally conservative group of Native Mesoamericans, the Lacandon have maintained characteristics unique to themselves, including certain religious customs, despite the encroachment and influence of the outside world since the early 16th century. It is also important to recognize that while the Lacandon are culturally conservative, they were never isolationist as they had continued contact and trade with other Native Mesoamericans throughout their history. However, the Lacandon have been very secretive about their religious rituals throughout ethnographic history, which has led to many mysteries about the meanings and origins of certain rituals and beliefs. Another problem to consider is that the Lacandon are not an entirely homogeneous group, which has created difficulties for ethnographers in understanding the religious practices of the Lacandon both past and present. Significant differences may be found in ritual behavior related to geographic differences of Lacandon villages. Lacandon villages are small and dispersed throughout the jungle in Chiapas. A further geographic divide is evident between the Lacandon in lowland Chiapas near the Maya ruins of Bonampak and Yaxchilán and the highland Lacandón who reside closer to Lakes Naja and Metzabok within the jungle (see map at). Lacandon who reside in the southern part of the Chiapas jungle have been more exposed to outsiders, are more aggressive than their highland counterparts, have slightly different dress, and adopted the Christian faith more quickly.\n\nWhen contacts between Europeans and the Lacandon began being recorded it was believed that they were unchanged ancient Maya descended from those who fled initial Spanish contact and that they were complete with the ritual beliefs and physical appearance of their ancestors. The Lacandon refer to themselves as Hach Winik, or “real people” and report that they are descendants of the Maya. While the Lacandon share a history with the Maya, many of their religious practices are not found among the ancient Maya or other Maya groups. The Lacandon may identify a particular man in a village who has shown extensive ritual knowledge or ability as a healer or religious leader who then performs religious ceremonies. However, basic offerings and incense burning is performed by all male heads of household and generally theirs is an egalitarian society as far as leadership. \n\nCeremonies usually have only male participants and are for a myriad of reasons including; feeding a particular god, a fertility rite, to help with agriculture, and frequently in response to illness. As contact from outsiders increased so did the occurrence of disease among the Lacandón, and with that more rituals focused on healing. The prominence of particular Gods also increased with the influx of outsiders including a God the Lacandon recognize specifically for foreigners among other things.\n\nDeities include K’akoch, the god responsible for the creation of earth, sun, and other gods (who came from the bak nikte' or flower named \"Plumeria rubra\") though, does not interact with anything human. Sukunkyum is the god said to have come first from the Plumeria flower and is reportedly in charge of the underworld and judging people's souls as well as taking care of the sun (when it disappears into the west) and the moon (during the day). Hachäkyum is the younger brother of Sukunkyum and the most important deity because he created the jungle, animals, and man and woman (he needed his wife's help for this). In the generation below Hachakyum, there are various mediating gods, such as his son Tuub (T'up) and his son-in-law Ah Kin ('Priest') Chob. Mensäbäk is the god of rain and is therefore very important to the Lacandón. Mensäbäk can be traced back to the prehispanic Maya god Yum Chac, also a god associated with rainfall. Inexplicably, a maize deity, present among all other Mayan groups, seems to be missing. There are also gods associated with thunder and lightning (Hahanak'uh), earthquakes (Kisin), war and disease (Ak K'ak'), and more recently, Äkyantho', the god of foreigners, has become more prominent. This god, Äkyantho', is described as a light-skinned god that wears a hat and carries a pistol, is responsible for trade, medicine, diseases, some animals (horses for example), metal tools, and also had a son named Hesuklistos (Jesus Christ) who is supposed to be the god of the foreigners. This is expressive of the Lacandón cultural conservancy and adaptability in that they fit new gods into their world view. They recognize that Hesuklistos is a god but do not feel he is worthy of worship as he is a minor god.\n\nMost Lacandon villages have a God House where ceremonies take place. Some are located near the religious leaders abode or close to the home of a well-respected or elderly male. Some villages hide the God House away from the village in the jungle so that outsiders are unable to find them. Often these sites are also guarded and even shielded with vegetation so that the rituals performed inside cannot be seen. The God House is built very low to the ground so that it is hard to see into and it is oriented to North, South, East, and West with the entrance on the east side where it faces toward Maya ruins and the sunrise. Inside the God House are the necessities used for various ceremonies. These include drums suspended in the ceiling so they don’t touch the ground until they are needed for ritual song and dance; a fire starter traditionally consisting of a fire drill (two sticks) and more recently a lighter, matches or flint; benches to sit around; ceramic bowls for preparing and eating ritual meals or offerings; a conch shell “trumpet” to announce the beginning of a ceremony for both villagers and the gods; a large hollowed trough to make the alcohol Balché for ritual consumption; and most importantly the God House contains rubber characters, incense nodules (made of copal), and ceramic God pots used to burn the offerings for the rituals. Sacred places included caves (where the sun went to the underworld each night), Maya ruins where the Gods had once resided, next to rivers, rock outcroppings or particular places in the jungle (there would not be any cutting of vegetation in these areas). These places are often remote, secret, and not to be viewed by outsiders.\n\nGod pots are small ceramic bowls that have the head and face of the deity they represent attached to the rim of the pot, often with the head tilted back so that incense or offerings may be placed directly on it. These pots are fired in the open and coated with a mixture of clay, lime, and water and then painted with red or black dyes. The pots have specific masculine or feminine designs including whether the head had straight (male) or braided (female) hair and whether the pot was striped (male) or checked (female). In addition, pots used for rituals are considered to be alive and to have a soul. To bring life to a God pot the Lacandón would use small pebbles they found at Maya ruins that they considered sacred. They would also use cacao beans for the purpose of giving the pot a “heart”. Each God pot was made for a particular deity or ritual and if they remained in good condition they sometimes were given from father to son. When a god pot became full with incense, burnt offerings, or was broken, there would be a renewal ceremony to replace it. The old pot would be taken to a sacred place and left and then new ceramic incense burners and figurines were made (usually to be discarded later) as they created a new pot to take the place of the old.\n\nOfferings burnt in the God pots included incense, food, and rubber figurines. The food was often thought to sustain the Gods and keep order in the universe. The figurines were made of sap from the Castilla elastica tree, which was seen as blood from the tree and is thought to represent the blood sacrifices in some of the Lacandon ceremonies. These figurines were usually in the form of humans with specific body parts clearly represented but at times were also in the form of animals. Part of the belief of the Lacandón entailed the Gods being able to partake in the offerings in the God pot by the figurine being burned in the God pot and becoming a messenger for the particular God invoked. The smoke of the offering was seen as the essence, or soul (pixan) which is consumable by the gods. Ultimately, there is not a great understanding of the exact meaning of the anthropomorphic rubber figures though the symbolism appears to be representative of human sacrifice. It is known that the rubber figures would be splattered with red annatto dye before being burnt and that at sometime before the 19th century it was common for the Lacandón to participate in bloodletting where they would cut their earlobe or septum and smear the figurine with blood before burning it. The belief was that the God could be sustained from the smoke of the burning blood. Other beliefs, which signify a potential history of human sacrifice, include some Gods preferring human flesh and sacrificing other Gods and also that at the end of the world the Gods would sacrifice humans and would paint their houses with the blood of the humans. The behavior of the Gods being similar to that of humans may point toward cannibalism and human sacrifice among the Lacandón historically though these practices were non-existent or unknown by the 20th century.\n\nOther practices may have included ancestor worship as god pots and incense burners have been found at burial sites. Reports of cremation burials (Baer and Baer, 1952) exist as well as ritual links to astronomy and dream interpretation. Not much is known about these practices. A specific belief regarding the god Akyantho’ is that he had first given the Lacandón tools, medicine, animals, liquor, and other trade associated items but then took them away and gave them to foreigners because they were taking better care of these items. As a punishment for their irresponsibility, the Lacandón had to interact with the foreigners in order to obtain what they needed. In addition, the Lacandón believed that their Gods had once dwelled in the ruins along with their ancestors. Many rituals were performed at these sites as evidenced by the numerous god pots found throughout. Breaking any of the rocks or damaging the buildings of the ruins was seen as disrespecting the Gods. Often these places were guarded but the increasing interruption of ceremonies along with the damaging of the sites and the god pots there forced the Lacandón back into the jungles to perform their rituals privately. Didier Boremanse, in the book \"South and Meso-American Native Spirituality\", gives some detailed accounts of specific rituals that he witnessed (pp. 324–351).\n\nWhile the Lacandón have recently seen an influx of outside influence with the coming of roads, logging, tourism, and other modernizations, it is important to recognize that they have had contact with outsiders throughout their history. It should also be noted that the Lacandón were often the initiators of contact with foreigners (including other Mayan groups). Outside contact was usually facilitated by trade and religious conversion. If we examine photographs and drawings of the Lacandón dating from the late 19th century, we can see that their clothing and personal adornments have changed considerably. These valuable historical images show that cultural change has been taking place among the Lacandón for a long time.\n\nThe Lacandón have sometimes gone into nearby towns to participate in Catholic mass or other rituals performed by priests. The ritual of baptism was of particular interest, possibly because they perceived a cleansing and therapeutic value for that ritual. Initially, attempts by capuchin priests and other missionaries to Christianize the Lacandón were unsuccessful. The priests repeatedly tried to emphasize the importance of monogamy in their religion, which may have led to the initial general non-acceptance of the religion. Polygyny was seen by the male Lacandón as a way to ensure labor and economic power, retain ritual knowledge in food preparation, and maintain fertility among wives at different times. The Christian religion provided somewhat of a break for Lacandón women because there was no need for the exhaustive process and knowledge base of preparing ritual foods for ceremonies. Because of this, and their exclusion from the traditional ceremonies other than cooking, many Lacandón women asked their husbands to convert to Christianity.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, the geographic differences among the Lacandón may have influenced the rate at which Christian conversion occurred. It is noted that the lowland Lacandón have all but abandoned the historical religion while those in the highlands still practice some traditional rituals. The need for privacy for the rites to be performed and outsider interruption likely has something to do with this as well. The use of music and dance has also decreased in ritual behavior inexplicably since ethnographers began studying the Lacandón. Today, it is possible to buy god pots made by the Lacandón specifically for tourists. These pots are not painted and have not been given “souls” and therefore are not alive and can be sold. Jon McGee (2002) notes that increased participation in a monetary economy because of tourists has decreased the need for subsistence agriculture and with it the religious rites associated with agriculture. Other changes include the simplification of god pot designs, the non-existence of once very important pilgrimages to particular sites (because they have been desecrated), disappearance of bloodletting, and rarity of polygyny. Besides the influence of outsiders, these changes can also be attributed to deaths of the elders and knowledgeable persons who practiced the rituals through old age and often disease. Information was not passed on to younger generations, which opened a place for Christian missionaries to convert more Lacandón. For this reason Protestantism is the dominant religion of the lowland Lacandón today. John McGee (2002) has noted that within four years of the introduction of television, traditional ritual practices among the highland Lacandón has been reduced to just two families and one individual. Many others no longer participate in any religion at this point.\n\nThe historic Lacandón were neither strictly hunter-gatherers nor swidden agriculturalists, but rather, they were both as they saw fit. Likewise, they were at one time either mobile or sedentary. The Lacandón would make clearings in the forest to raise crops and some livestock, but they would also hunt and fish, and gather roots and plants in the jungle. As such, they had no need for a structured economy, as they relied on their own homesteads as their source of sustenance. The more contact that the Lacandón had with other people, the more their economy morphed.\n\nThe historic Lacandón would at times trade with outsiders, but there is little to no documentation regarding this contact. What trade was documented showed that it was the most contact the Lacandón had with the outside world at the time. They traded animals, honey, bee’s wax, tobacco, cotton, and cacao for much-needed metal tools. As time progressed into the 19th and 20h centuries, the goods the Lacandón were given during trade became more advanced, such as firearms, kerosene, coffee, sugar, and clothing among other things. There is evidence that showed that some Lacandón kept regular trade with ranches in Chiapas, and through contact learned languages such as Spanish, Ch'ol, and Tzeltal Maya. This allowed the Lacandón to more easily understand Tzeltal Maya culture and Christianity.\n\nTo the Lacandón, trade with foreigners was the most vital, and once only way for them to come into contact with the outside world, and for them to obtain things that they themselves cannot produce. Throughout time one can see the advancement of technology reaching the Lacandón. The increased trade in the 19th century also influenced change in the Lacandón subsistence. They started raising chickens, cultivating oranges, plantains, sugar cane, and instead of hunting with bows and arrows, were hunting with rifles.\n\nSome Lacandón would gain employment from Ladinos in logging camps, and others would receive payment from logging camps for rights to log in their jungle. By the end of the 19th century and beginning of the twentieth, tourists would come to the Lacandón villages and purchase material items like gourd bowls, bows, and arrowheads.\n\nAs other indigenous people were given land in the Lacandón Jungle, the common practice of subsistence farming was replaced by semi commercial agriculture of the new people that were given land in the area. This was further influenced by the national government’s encouragement of the development of commercial farming, and not the typical slash and burn practices that were historically common in the area. In addition to that, rapid deforestation of the Lacandón Jungle due to cattle grazing led the Lacandón to move from their dispersed settlements to more centralized communities, thus shifting their economic practices. In the early 1970s, oil developments in Tabasco put money into Chiapas, and allowed for the Mexican government to set up a Rain forest reserve, preventing areas of the Lacandón Jungle from being used by logging companies. However, after gaining control of the local extension of the Florida-based logging company Weiss Fricker Mahogany Company, the Mexican government organization Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA), which controlled the revenue generated by logging in the Lacandón Jungle. A state-controlled company, the Compañia Forestal de la Lacandon S.A., was created to contract Lacandón communities for logging rights of their land. Unfortunately, NAFINSA controlled most of the royalties made by the company, 70%, as opposed to the 30% that the Lacandón communities received.\n\nFollowing the oil price crash in the early 1980s, the value of the peso dropped dramatically, which made international tourism even more attractive. Though this affected the economy of the Lacandón adversely, it presented an opportunity for them to gain. Lacandón men would dedicate a good amount of their free time towards manufacturing arts and crafts, and then selling their goods to tourists in the larger towns in Chiapas, like Palenque. In 1980, a road was built to connect Palenque with the Lacandón community of Nahá. This allowed tourist traffic to flow into Lacandón communities, and the Lacandón merchant selling material goods no longer had to travel for days, but rather set up his shop along the road, and could carry more items with the advent of vehicular travel in the area.\n\nOne of the biggest items sold to tourists are hunting kits - bows and arrows. Men making these bows and arrows transitioned from acquiring the materials from the jungle themselves, to just buying the materials and focused strictly on the production of the bows and arrows. These are usually sold at the Maya ruins at Palenque and range in sizes - from full adult sizes to child-sized toys kits.\n\nThe historical Lacandón needed to rely on only themselves. But as they came into contact with other people, and Mexico became a more unified state, their economy shifted towards a more dependent one, thriving on increased trade with other local people and eventually were introduced with international trade.\n\nThe Lacandón became associated as being isolated from other groups, a fact which was facilitated largely by the geographical setting in which they lived. The geography led many to be discouraged from venturing into the Lacandón lands, and the result was that the Lacandón people were never completely “conquered” as was the case with other indigenous groups in Mesoamerica. The rugged terrain and thick forests which characterize the Lacandón lands in the eastern sector of the present-day Mexican state of Chiapas (see map at) acted somewhat as a barrier to social interaction outside of the small and dispersed groups in which the Lacandón lived from pre-Conquest times up to the 20th century.\n\nThe southern Maya lowlands which are home to the Lacandón are characterized by rugged karstic topography and sub-tropical rainforest, known as the Selva Lacandona, or the Lacandon Forest. Several rivers feed into the eastern Chiapas region, such as the Pasión, San Pedro Martir, Lacantún, Jataté, Usumacinta, and Chixoy. The rivers, along with many lakes, swamps and shorelines, contribute to the diversity of the Lacandón lands. The availability of various types of flora and fauna which inhabit these aquatic and terrestrial areas have allowed the Lacandón to thrive in a geographical setting which at first glance appears to be hostile to humans. In order to take full advantage of their resources, the Lacandón have used specific agricultural, hunting and gathering techniques which have been designed to be conservative of the land and ecozone as a whole, which allows for sustainable use and therefore continued yield in the future. 20% of the approximately 700 Lacandón people living today continue to use such techniques.\n\nJames Nations recognizes four zones which the Lacandón utilize to maintain a diverse food supply and healthy diet. The primary or old growth forest consists of small portions of tropical rain forest and lower mountainous rain forest, which constitutes the majority of the forest ecosystem. While the growth in this type of rainforest is not quite as tall as that seen in a tropical rainforest, the two largely share the same characteristics (see interactive map at and map at). The primary growth forest provides hunting for the Lacandón, as deer, peccary, agouti, and monkeys inhabit the area. The Lacandón also utilize the many different plant species in the rainforest for various purposes, including dietary and medicinal; the medicinal use of plants is well-developed amongst the Lacandón and is important in their culture. This zone is also very important for the maintenance of rich and stable soil, of which the Lacandón take advantage in their milpa systems, the second zone.\n\nThe milpa, or farmed field, is crucial to the survival of the Lacandón people. Here, they utilize sustainable slash and burn techniques to ensure the continued richness of the soils of the milpa and health of the region in general. The Lacandón people engage in swidden agriculture on a primary or secondary growth forest in January, February or March, and allow the remains to dry until April. During this time, fire breaks are also put into place so as to keep the coming burn from catching other parts of the forest on fire. The firing occurs in April and planting begins soon thereafter. Different crops are grown together in the milpa amongst each other, such that plants of a single crop are separated from one another and surrounded by different crops. Also, tree species (bananas, plantains, etc.) are interspersed amongst maize and vine plants such as squash and chiles, and root crops are cultivated in the ground under these. Plants are harvested in November or December after the rainy season which begins in May or June. This cycle will be repeated for 2 to 5 years, at which time the milpa will be replanted with trees and allowed to be repopulated with wild forest plant species (this zone is then referred to as an acahual). After 5 to 7 years, the land will be used as a milpa again. After this second period of time used as a milpa, however, the land will be replanted with trees and allowed to develop into a mature secondary forest (at least 20 years), at which time it will be used as a milpa again.\n\nThe third zone, as mentioned above, is the acahual. The Lacandón farmers replant the milpa in tree crops such as rubber or fruit and reap the direct benefits from the plants. The Lacandón also use the acahual as a type of hunting ground, as the animals discussed above frequent the acahaul to graze or eat.\n\nThe last major zone in the Lacandón lands is that which is near water, such as river banks, stream beds, swamps, and shorelines. The aquatic areas provide the Lacandón with additional sources of protein and a different nutrient base from that which is provided by the terrestrial zones. The people use a specific type of snail species (\"Pachychilus\" spp.) known locally as t’unu as a type of protein supplement to their diet. In addition, the shells from this organism provide great nutritional value, as they provide calcium and lime when burned. The lime is then added to maize to release amino acids such as tryptophan and lysine and the vitamin niacin, which would otherwise be unavailable from the maize (unable to be metabolized) if the lime were not added.\n\nBy utilizing the primary forest, milpas, acahuales and aquatic areas, the Lacandón have been able to provide a healthy diet for themselves which has contributed to their ongoing survival.\n\nThree sites have been excavated and yielded artifacts that are historically Lacandón, El Caobal, Matamangos and El Magal. The location of these abandoned Lacandón sites have been passed down through generations of fathers taking their sons to the sites for hunting or exploring. The locals who had traveled there as children are the last informants who know the location of the Lacandón settlements. Since the Lacandón did not typically build “stone-and-earth” platforms it is almost impossible to find their lost settlements, making the knowledge of the elder locals crucial.\n\nEach site yielded different artifacts, some proved evidence of a home or residences, others may have been manufacturing sites. All show strong evidence of Lacandón inhabitance. The easiest characteristic of Lacandón settlement to spot is the presence of non-native vegetation such as fruit trees. Another being traditional Lacandón pottery. The ceramic vessels found at all of the sites were dark brown and black with dark clouding on both the inside and outside and had a hemispherical shape. The hemispherical shape mimicked the familiar shape of the gourd vessels that were also very important. The gourds had a practical form and were used often for ritual food and drink. The rims of the ceramic vessels were squared off, as if they had been cut with a knife before being fired. Unlike Lacandón gourd bowls, which were typically decorated with carved designs, the ceramic vessels had no designs or adornments. This might have shown some insight as to why they were left behind, perhaps they were so simple and easily produced that they were left behind and new vessels were made after the tribe migrated to a new location.\n\nThe first site discovered near the ruins of Dos Pilas was El Caobal, located on raised terrain and surrounded by swamp. In Spanish, caobal means “place or abundance of mahogany trees,” this refers to the large concentration of them which most likely due to planting by the Lacandón who relied on them for canoes and also because mahogany trees are not indigenous. El Caobal also has a large amount of mango and banana trees, which are also non-native, which were planted by the Lacandón as a source of food. Beneath the jungle floor laid hundreds of artifacts including pottery, stone tools, metal pots and broken glass to name a few. Some of the artifacts were brought up by root action or a metal detector located and others were found from blind digs. The abundance of artifacts suggests the location a home or possibly a discard zone. The local artifacts that were found included utilitarian ceramics and stone tools, imported items consisted of white earthenware vessels with painted designs, glass bottles and metal tools.\n\nAt Matamangos, the site approximately one kilometer from El Caobal is identified by its abundance of mango trees (again showing that non-indigenous vegetation points to settlement). Matamangos was also on slightly raised ground and was located near a small group of Maya house mounds. After deciding to dig near one of the largest mango trees large amounts of chert debris such as chert cores, arrowheads and small blades were uncovered, another object that is characteristically Lacandón. Chert was a hard stone that the Lacandón used to make arrowheads and other lithic tools. A large piece of chert (also called a core) would first be heated and then bone is struck with a round hammerstone (made of volcanic rock) against the core, using indirect percussion fragments were chipped off to make prismatic chert blades. A hammerstone (probably imported from the Guatemalan highlands) was also found nearby the chert fragments. The stone was identified as being a hammerstone because of its smooth and rounded from use and fits comfortably in the hand and has scratches and chips from use. The uncovering of these related artifacts suggests possibly a tool manufacturing area or a discard site.\n\nKnown as El Mangal or “place of many mango trees” by the locals, this site has trees that were much larger than those at Caobal or Matamangos. The area also had a lagoon that was known on regional maps as “El Mangal” (showing a knowledge of the area by people other than the locals). The water in the lagoon is not good for drinking or cooking but it useful for washing and catching fish. A current family has made residence at El Mangal and has unearthed a whole machete, they also found pieces of thick, hard, brown pottery (traditional Lacandón ceramic). While digging a trash pit the family found more pottery, although it was not the traditional smooth bowls that had been found at El Caobal, they were still ethnographically Lacandón. The vessels were identified as incense burners. The shape was hemispherical with a ring base and a hole for venting the fire and releasing smoke. Unlike the smooth ceramics used for every day life these vessels were adorned with the modeled head of a deity on the rim, proving this object is used for religious rites. The modeled heads “closely resemble those made by the ethnographic Lacandon.” Other decorations include incised lines and holes down the front of the bowl and protruding spikes. These vessels were used in “God houses” for religious purposes. During the Lacandón incense burner renewal ceremony men isolated themselves from the community and crafted the burners in solitude. They were placed in the god house and the old burners were deposited at a sacred place in the forest. The presence of these incense burners points possibly to a religious god house, a manufacturing site or even a sacred place of disposal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366338", "title": "Lecturer", "text": "Lecturer\n\nLecturer is an academic rank within many universities, though the meaning of the term varies somewhat from country to country. It generally denotes an academic expert who is hired to teach on a full- or part-time basis. They may also conduct research.\n\nIn the UK, the term lecturer is ambiguous and covers several academic ranks. The key distinction is between permanent/open-ended or temporary/fixed-term lectureships.\n\nA permanent lecturer in UK universities usually holds an open-ended position that covers teaching, research, and administrative responsibilities. Permanent lectureships are tenure-track or tenured positions that are equivalent to an assistant or associate professorship in North America. After a number of years, a lecturer may be promoted based on his or her research record to become a senior lecturer. This position is below reader and professor.\n\nResearch lecturers (where they are permanent appointments) are the equivalent in rank of lecturers and senior lecturers, but reflect a research-intensive orientation. Research lecturers are common in fields such as medicine, engineering, and biological and physical sciences.\n\nIn contrast, fixed-term or temporary lecturers are appointed for specific short-term teaching needs. These positions are often non-renewable and are common post-doctoral appointments. In North American terms, a fixed-term lecturer can hold an equivalent rank to assistant professor without tenure. Typically, longer contracts denote greater seniority or higher rank. Teaching fellows may also sometimes be referred to as lecturers—for example, Exeter named some of that group as education and scholarship lecturers (E & S) to recognise the contribution of teaching, and elevate the titles of teaching fellows to lecturers. Some universities also refer to graduate students or others, who undertake ad-hoc teaching for a department sessional lecturers. Like adjunct professors and sessional lecturers in North America, these non-permanent teaching staff are often very poorly paid (as little as £6000 p.a. in 2011-12). These varying uses of the term lecturer cause confusion for non-UK academics.\n\nAs a proportion of UK academic staff, the proportion of permanent lectureships has fallen considerably. This is one reason why permanent lectureships are usually secured only after several years of post-doctoral experience. Data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency show that in 2013-14, 36 per cent of full- and part-time academic staff were on fixed-term contracts, down from 45 per cent a decade earlier. Over the same period, the proportion of academic staff on permanent contracts rose from 55 per cent to 64 per cent. Others were on contracts classed as “atypical”.'\n\nHistorically in the UK, promotion to a senior lectureship reflected prowess in teaching or administration rather than research, and the position was much less likely to lead direct to promotion to professor.\n\nIn contrast, promotion to senior lecturer nowadays is based on research achievements (for research-intensive universities), and is an integral part of the promotion path to a full chair. Promotion to reader is sometimes still necessary before promotion to a full chair; however, some universities no longer make appointments at the level of reader (for instance, the University of Leeds and the University of Oxford). Senior lecturers and readers are sometimes paid on the same salary scale, although readers are recognized as more senior. Readers in pre-1992 universities are generally considered at least the equivalent, in terms of status, of (full) professors in post-1992 universities. Many academics consider it more prestigious to have been a reader in a pre-1992 university than a professor in a post-1992 university.\n\nMany open-ended lecturers in the UK have a doctorate (50.1% in 2009-2010) and often have postdoctoral research experience. In almost all fields, a doctorate is a prerequisite, although historically this was not the case. Some academic positions could have been held on the basis of research merit alone, without a higher degree.\n\nThe new universities (that is universities that were until 1992 termed polytechnics) have a slightly different ranking naming scheme from the older universities. Many pre-1992 universities use the grades: Lecturer (A), Lecturer (B), Senior Lecturer, Reader, Professor. Meanwhile, post-1992 grades are normally: Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Principal Lecturer (management-focused) or Reader (research-focused), Professor. Much confusion surrounds the differing use of the \"Senior Lecturer\" title. A Senior Lecturer in a post-1992 university is equivalent to a Lecturer (B) in a pre-1992 university, whereas a Senior Lecturer in a pre-1992 university is most often equivalent to a Principal Lecturer in a post-1992 university.\n\nAccording to the Times Higher Education, the University of Warwick decided in 2006 \"to break away from hundreds of years of academic tradition, renaming lecturers 'assistant professors', senior lecturers and readers 'associate professors' while still calling professors 'professors'. The radical move will horrify those who believe the \"professor\" title should be reserved for an academic elite.\" Nottingham has a mixture of the standard UK system, and the system at Warwick, with both lecturers and assistant professors. At Reading, job advertisements and academic staff web pages use the title associate professor, but the ordinances of the university make no reference to these titles. They address only procedures for conferring the traditional UK academic ranks.\n\nSince the Conservatives' 1988 Education Reform Act, the ironclad tenure that used to exist in the UK has given way to a less secure form of tenure. Technically, university vice-chancellors can make individual faculty members redundant for poor performance or institute departmental redundancies, but in practice, this is rare. The most noted use of this policy happened in 2012 at Queen Mary University of London where lecturers on permanent contracts were fired. The institutions now has a stated policy of firing and replacing under-performing \"teaching\" staff members. This policy is complicated by the 2008 \"Ball v Aberdeen\" tribunal decision, the distinction between teaching and research faculty is blurring- with implications for who can and cannot be made redundant at UK universities, and under what conditions.\n\nDespite this recent erosion of tenure in the UK, it is still practiced in most universities. Permanent contracts use the word \"tenure\" for lecturers who are \"reappointed to the retiring age\". This is equivalent to a US tenure decision—references are sought from world-leading academics and tenure and promotions committees meet to decide \"tenure\" cases. There is normally no title elevation in such instances—tenure and title are independent.\n\nThe table presents a broad overview of the traditional main systems, but there are universities which use a combination of those systems or other titles. Note that some universities in Commonwealth countries have adopted the American system in place of the Commonwealth system.\n\nAs different US academic institutions use the term lecturer in various ways, there is sometimes confusion. On a generic level, the term broadly denotes \"one who teaches at a university but is not eligible for tenure and has no research obligations\". At non-research colleges, the latter distinction is less meaningful, making the absence of tenure the main difference between lecturers and other academic faculty. Unlike the adjective adjunct (which can modify most academic titles, from professor to lecturer to instructor, etc. and refers to part-time status), the title of lecturer at most schools does \"not\" address the issue of full-time vs. part-time status.\n\nLecturers are almost always required to have at least a master's degree and quite often have earned doctorates. (For example, at Columbia University in New York, the title of lecturer actually requires a doctorate or its professional equivalent; they also use the term for \"instructors in specialized programs.\") Sometimes the title is used as an equivalent-alternative to instructor, but schools that use both titles tend to provide relatively more advancement potential (e.g. multiple ranks of progression, at least some of which entail faculty voting privileges or faculty committee service) to their lecturers.\n\nMajor research universities are more frequently hiring full-time lecturers, whose responsibilities tend to focus primarily in undergraduate education, especially for introductory/survey courses. In addition to the reason of higher-ranking faculty tending to prefer higher-level courses, part of the reason is also cost-savings, as non-tenure-track faculty tend to have lower salaries. When a lecturer is part-time, there is little practical distinction in the position from an adjunct professor/instructor/etc., since all non-tenure-track faculty by definition are not on the tenure-track. However, for full-time lecturers (or those regularly salaried above some stated level, such as half-time), many institutions now incorporate the role quite formally—managing it with performance reviews, promotional tracks, administrative service responsibilities, and many faculty privileges (e.g. voting, use of resources, etc.).\n\nAn emerging alternative to using full-time lecturers at research institutions is to create a parallel professorship track that is focused on teaching. It may offer tenure, and typically has a title series such as teaching professor. (This is analogous to the \"research-only\" faculty tracks at some universities, which typically have title series such as research professor/scientist/scholar.) A related concept—at least in professional fields—is the clinical professor or professor of practice, which in addition to a teaching focus (vs. research), also tend to have a practical/professional/skills oriented focus (vs. theory and scholarship, etc.).\n\nIn some institutions, the position of lecturer, especially \"distinguished lecturer\", may also refer to a position somewhat similar to \"emeritus professor\" or a temporary post used for visiting academics of considerable prominence—e.g. a famous writer may serve for a term or a year, for instance. When confusion arose about President Barack Obama's status on the law faculty at the University of Chicago, the institution stated that although his title was \"senior lecturer\", the university considered him to be a \"professor\" and further noted that it uses that title for notable people, such as federal judges and politicians, who are deemed of high prestige but lack the time to commit to a traditional tenure-track position. While other universities instead use the term \"senior\" as simply a matter of rank or promotion, all such references to lecturers of any rank are consistent with the normal U.S. practice of using \"lower-case-p\" \"professor\" as a common noun for anyone who teaches college, as well as a \"pre-nominal\" title of address (e.g. \"Professor Smith\") without necessarily referring to \"job\" title or position \"rank\" (e.g. \"John Smith, Assistant/Associate/Full Professor of X\").\n\nIn Australia, the term lecturer may be used informally to refer to anyone who conducts lectures at a university or elsewhere, but formally refers to a specific academic rank. The academic ranks in Australia are similar to those in the UK, with the rank of associate professor roughly equivalent to reader in UK universities. The academic levels in Australia are (in ascending academic level): A) associate lecturer, (B) lecturer, (C) senior lecturer, (D) associate professor, and (E) professor.\n\nIn India, one can appear for interviews for a post of a lecturer after passing the competitive exam of National Eligibility Test conducted by the University Grants Commission.\n\nThe position is equivalent to assistant professor in the US system. The term is not universally applied, with some universities preferring the lecturer/reader /professor titles, while others work with the assistant professor/associate professor/professor title.\n\nAs such, most lecturers' position can be considered tenure track.\n\nIn many states of India, the term lecturer or Post Graduate Teacher (PGT) is also used for the intermediate college teachers. The intermediate colleges or Junior Colleges are equivalent to higher secondary schools. Such lecturers are subject experts specifically engaged to teach a particular subject in higher classes.\n\nIn other countries, usage varies. In Israel, the term has a meaning in academia similar to that in the UK.\n\nIn France, the title \"maître de conférences\" (\"lecture master\") is a permanent position that covers research and teaching (and usually administrative responsibilities). It is the lower of the two permanent faculty ranks (the other being \"professeur des universités\" or \"university professor\"). The title of \"lecteur\" is used for teachers of foreign languages with no research responsibilities.\n\nIn German-speaking countries, the term \"lektor\" historically denoted a teaching position below a professor, primarily responsible for delivering and organizing lectures. The contemporary equivalent is \"dozent\" or . Nowadays, the German term \"lektor\" exists only in philology or modern-language departments at German-speaking universities for positions that primarily involve teaching a foreign language. The equivalent rank within the German university system is something like \"Juniorprofessor\", \"Dozent\", \"Hochschuldozent\", \"Juniordozent\", \"Akademischer Rat\" or \"-Oberrat\", \"Lehrkraft für besondere Aufgaben\", and the like.\n\nIn Poland, the related term \"lektor\" is used for a teaching-only position, generally for teaching foreign languages.\n\nIn Norway, a \"lektor\", University Lektor and University College Lektor are academic ranks at universities and university colleges in Norway. The requirements for such position is a combination of relevant degree on master level (five years master or bachelor plus two years master) or higher, research experience, teaching experience and pedagogic education and training. The rank is similar to Lecturer in Great Britain.\nThe Rank is also an academic rank which enables a teacher to lecture at Ungdomsskole (secondary school) on specialized fields and Videregående skole (high school) level. All teacher students in Norway are now required to reach a master's degree in order to be able to teach at all levels up to universities and university colleges. \nIn Sweden and Denmark, a \"lektor\" or \"universitetslektor\" is an academic rank similar to that of senior lecturer in Great Britain and associate professor in USA. The \"lektor\" holds the position below professor in rank.\n\nIn Singapore, a Lecturer at the National University of Singapore is a full-time and renewable position that include both the opportunities for research funding and for promotion to Associate Professor on the Educator Track. It is equivalent to Teaching Assistant Professor at a US university.\n\nIn South Korea, the term \"gangsa\" is the literal translation of \"part-time lecturer\". A gangsa is usually part-time, paid by the number of hours of teaching. No research or administrative obligation is attached. In most disciplines, gangsa is regarded as a first step in one's academic career. In Korea, the tenure position started from \"full-time lecturer\". The tenure track positions in South Korea are \"full-time lecturer (JunImGangSa)\", \"assistant professor (JoKyoSu)\", \"associate professor (BuKyosu)\", and \"professor (KyoSu)\". Therefore, \"full-time lecturer\" is the same position as \"assistant professor\" in other countries, including the USA.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a \"lector\" used to be equivalent to the rank of associate professor at universities. Nowadays, it is the highest rank at so-called \"applied universities\" (i.e., school providing higher vocational/professional training to their students). At regular universities, this rank does not exist anymore.\n"}
{"id": "30631973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30631973", "title": "Li Hong (Taoist eschatology)", "text": "Li Hong (Taoist eschatology)\n\nLi Hong (Chinese: 李洪) is a messianic figure in religious Taoism prophesied to appear at the end of the world cycle to rescue the chosen people, who would be distinguished by certain talismans, practices and virtues. Myths surrounding Li Hong took shape in literature during the Han dynasty. He is depicted in the Taoist \"Divine Incantations Scripture\" as an ideal leader who would reappear to set right heaven (tian) and earth (dì) at a time of upheaval and chaos. Li Hong is sometimes considered to be an avatar or reincarnation of Laozi, with whom he shares the surname Li. Prophesies concerning Li Hong's appearance have been used to legitimize numerous rebellions and insurgencies, all of which rallied around a Li Hong. These were particularly prevalent during the fifth century, and continued to appear until the Song dynasty. \n"}
{"id": "4168529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4168529", "title": "List of Caliphs", "text": "List of Caliphs\n\nThis is a list of people who have held the title of Caliph, the supreme religious and political leader of an Islamic state known as the Caliphate, and the title for the ruler of the Islamic \"Ummah\", as the political successors to Muhammad. All years are according to the Common Era.\n\nA few months before his death, the Islamic prophet Muhammad delivered a sermon to over 100,000 Muslims at the event of Ghadir Khumm. In the sermon, he declared Ali ibn Abi Talib to be his successor. He described Ali with several leadership titles in the sermon, including \"\"Mawla\",\" \"\"Imam\",\" \"\"Ameer\",\" and \"\"Khalifah\".\" After the sermon, Muhammad instructed everyone to pledge allegiance to Ali. According to both Shia and Sunni sources, Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman were all among those who pledged allegiance to Ali at the event.\n\nAfter Muhammad's death, however, some of Muhammad's companions left and gathered at a place known as Saqifa. At Saqifa, Umar pledged allegiance to Abu Bakr, despite their previous pledges of allegiance to Ali. Abu Bakr then assumed political power, and his supporters became known as the Sunnis. Despite that, a group of Muslims kept their allegiance to Ali. These people, who became known as Shias, held that while Ali's right to be the political leader may have been taken, he was still the religious and spiritual leader after Muhammad.\n\n\"(Not accepted by the Muslim dominions in the Umayyad-ruled Iberian Peninsula and the Fatimid and Almohad-ruled parts of North Africa)\".\nDuring the latter period of Abbasid rule, Muslim rulers began using other titles, such as Sultan.\n\nThe Cairo Abbasids were largely ceremonial Caliphs under the patronage of the Mamluk Sultanate that existed after the takeover of the Ayyubid dynasty.\n\nThe head of the Ottoman dynasty was just entitled \"Sultan\" originally, but soon it started accumulating titles assumed from subjected peoples. Murad I (reigned 1362–1389) was the first Ottoman claimant to the title of Caliph; claimed the title after conquering Edirne.\nThe Office of the Caliphate was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey which dissolved the office on March 3, 1924, in keeping with the policies of secularism that were adopted in the early years of the Republic of Turkey by its President Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. \n\nAfter the dissolution of the Office of the Caliphate, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey founded the Presidency of Religious Affairs as the new highest Islamic religious authority in the country.\n\n\"Caliphates not accepted as legitimate by the majority of muslims\".\n\nAbd Allah ibn al-Zubayr, the nephew of Aisha, the third wife of Muhammad led a rebellion against the Umayyad Caliphate in 684 AD. He was proclaimed caliph in Mecca but was defeated and killed there in 692 AD after a six-month siege by general Al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf.\n\n\"(Not universally accepted; actual authority confined to Spain and parts of Maghreb)\"\n\n\"(The Fatimids belonged to the Isma'ili branch of Shia Islam and hence are not recognized by the majority of Sunnis, whether subjects in their dominions, or from neighboring states).\"\n\"(Not widely accepted, actual dominions were parts of North Africa and Iberia)\"\n\"(Not widely accepted, actual dominions were parts of West Africa)\n\nEstablished by Tariqa Islamic scholar and religious leader Usman dan Fodio through the Fulani War (alternatively known as the Fulani Jihad), which sought to reduce the influence of pre-Islamic religious practices and spread a more vigorous form of Islam through the auspices of a Caliphate.\n\nSeveral rulers of West Africa adopted the title of Caliph. Mai Ali Ghaji ibn Dunama was the first ruler of Bornu Empire to assume the title. Askia Mohammad I of Songhai Empire also assumed the title around the same time.\n\nSince the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, there has been no single recognized, \"ecumenical\" caliphate.\n\nA last attempt at restoring the caliphal office and style with ecumenical recognition was made by Hussein bin Ali, King of Hejaz and Sharif of Mecca, who assumed both on 11 March 1924 and held them until 3 October 1924, when he passed the kingship to his son `Ali ibn al-Husayn al-Hashimi, who did not adopt the caliphal office and style. Hussein's claim for caliphate was not accepted however, and in 1925 he was driven from Hejaz by the forces of Ibn Saud due to his lack of support for Shari'ah. He continued to use the title of caliph during his remaining life in exile, until his death in 1931. Like the Umayyad, Abbasid and Fatimid caliphs, he was a descendant of Muhammad through a grandson of Hasan ibn Ali.\n\nKhalīfatul Masīh (; ; ) or Khalifa of Ahmadiya Community sometimes simply referred to as \"Khalifah\" (i.e. Caliph, successor) is the elected spiritual and organizational leader of the worldwide Ahmadiyya Community and is the successor of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad of Qadian who had claimed to be the Mahdi and Messiah in their community. The Caliph is believed to be divinely guided and is also referred to by members of the Ahmadiyya Community as Amir al-Mu'minin (Leader of the Faithful). The fifth and current Khalifatul Masih is Mirza Masroor Ahmad.\nThe rest of the major sections of Islam that are Sunni and Shiya, do not believe in this caliphate system.\n\nAfter the death of Ghulam Ahmad, his successors directed the Ahmadiyya Community from Qadian which remained the headquarters of the community until 1947 with the creation of Pakistan. From this time on the headquarters remained in Rabwah, a town built on land bought in Pakistan by the community in 1948. In 1984, Ordinance XX was promulgated by the government of Pakistan which rendered the Khalifatul Masih unable to perform his duties and put the very institution in jeopardy. Due to these circumstances, Khalifatul Masih IV left Pakistan and migrated to London, England, provisionally moving the headquarters to the Fazl Mosque.\n\nOn 29 June 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) started to call itself \"Islamic State\" and call its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi \"caliph Ibrahim\". The validity of this caliphate has not been recognized by any Islamic authority outside of the 10-million-people territory under control of Islamic State.\n\nOn 24 August 2014, the leader of Boko Haram in Nigeria, Abubakar Shekau, likewise declared a caliphate. Apparently, it remained unclear whether Shekau declared his group to be part of ISIL or if he was declaring a separate caliphate in Nigeria. On 7 March 2015, Shekau pledged allegiance to ISIL via an audio message posted on the organisation's Twitter account. Afterwards, Boko Haram assumed the name \"Wilāyat al Sūdān al Gharbī\" (, \"West Africa Province\") or \"Islamic State in West Africa\" (Iswap). However, on the 10th of April, 2018, during a rally headlined by U.S. President Donald Trump in support of Mike Braun’s bid for the US Senate in Elkhart, Indiana, Vice President Mike Pence referred to ISIS as a Caliphate, claiming “ISIS is on the run, their Caliphate has crumbled, and we will soon drive them out of existence once and for all,” implying the US views the claims of Baghdadi as (at least rhetorically) legitimate. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32368595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32368595", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in East Timor", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in East Timor\n\nThe Catholic Church in East Timor consists only of a Latin hierarchy, joint in a national 'Episcopal conference of Timor', although it only comprises three exempt dioceses, i.e. all immediately subject to the Holy See (not part of any Ecclesiastical province) and still dependent on the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or defunct jurisdictions.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level) to Timor-Leste (East Timor), but it is located in giant neighbor Indonesia's capital Jakarta, at the same address as the Apostolic Nunciature to Indonesia, which however has another incumbent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12685939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12685939", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Nicaragua", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Nicaragua\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Nicaragua comprises one ecclesiastical province headed by an archbishop. The province is in turn subdivided into 9 dioceses and 1 archdiocese each headed by a bishop or an archbishop.\n\n"}
{"id": "410454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410454", "title": "List of Eastern Orthodox jurisdictions in North America", "text": "List of Eastern Orthodox jurisdictions in North America\n\nThe following is a list of Eastern Orthodox jurisdictions with a presence in North America.\n\nThese jurisdictions' bishops are members of the Assembly of Canonical Orthodox Bishops of the United States of America, according to canonical order:\n\nThe following in communion with these jurisdictions, but is not a member itself:\n\nThe following groups are not currently in full communion with the above:\n\n"}
{"id": "24575139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24575139", "title": "List of churches in Iceland", "text": "List of churches in Iceland\n\nA list of churches in Iceland:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30917640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30917640", "title": "Lists of leaders of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church", "text": "Lists of leaders of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church\n\nThis is a list of Leaders of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church (formerly Ruthenia Catholic Church or Uniate Church).\n\nNote, due to historical circumstances (i.e. Russian occupation) first hierarchs of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church carried titles without mentioning of Kyiv. Although sometimes being referred to as primates out of all hierarchs only Mykhailo Levitsky officially carried the title of primate which was granted by the Austrian Emperor as the Primate of Galicia and Lodomeria, but not approved by the Pope of Rome.\n\nFollowing the Union of Brest, in the 16th century the \"Eastern Orthodox Metropolitan of Kiev, Galicia and all Ruthenia\" located in the Polish-Lithuania Commonwealth broke relations with the Patriarch of Constantinople and place themselves in communion with the Patriarch of the West, thus establishing what later was known as \"Ruthenian Uniate Church\" or \"Ruthenian Catholic Church\". Certain dioceses in the Carpathian region including Galicia and Subcarpathian Ruthenia stayed loyal to the Patriarch of Constantinople for another 100 years. In 17th century dioceses in Galicia eventually joined the Union of Brest, while the Orthodox diocese in Subcarpathian Ruthenia came under communion with the Pope of Rome through the Union of Uzhhorod and was temporarily placed under the Latin bishop of Eger.\n\nFollowing the partitions of Poland, the Russian Empire occupied most of the territory of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Carpathian region with Galicia and Subcarpathian Ruthenia was passed to the Habsburg Monarchy. The Russian Emperor refused to have primates of the Uniate Church to be approved by the Pope. The Uniate Church under Habsburg Monarchy (later the Austrian Empire) was forced to reorganize. After losing its main archdiocese in Kyiv, the Uniate Church had its historical metropolis of Galicia (Halych) reinstated, centered in the archdiocese of Lemberg (Lviv). At the same time, the diocese (eparchy) of Munkacs (Mukachevo) was ceded from the jurisdiction of the Latin bishop of Eger, but instead of rejoining the Uniate Church it was given a self-rule on demand of the Rákóczi family.\n\nIn 19th and 20th centuries the Church lost most of its dioceses, most of which were taken over by the Russian Orthodox Church. During this time, some emigrants of Austria-Hungary established the Ruthenian Catholic Church in the United States.\n\nIn 20th century dioceses were created in various parts around the globe.\n\nMetropolitans of Kyiv, Galicia and all Ruthenia:\n\nMetropolitans of Kyiv, Galicia and all Ruthenia:\n\n\"In 1807 the Russian Empire continued to appoint its own primates for the Ruthenian Uniate Church without confirming them with the Pope. \"<br>\nMetropolitans of Kiev:\n\"Following the Synod of Polatsk (1838), the Ruthenian Uniate Church was forcibly abolished on the territory of the Russian Empire, and its property and clergy transferred to the Russian Orthodox Church.\"\n\n\"Upon the partition of Poland, Eparchies that ended up within the Habsburg Monarchy were reorganized. The Eparchy of Lviv was converted into archeparchy and its bishop became a Metropolitan bishop governing the rest of the eparchies of the former Ruthenian Uniate Church. The new Metropolia received name of Galicia and in way became a successor of the 14th century Metropolia of Galicia. All primates were approved by the Pope.\"\n\nMetropolitan of Galicia and Archbishop of Lemberg:\n\"In 1945 Josyf Slipyj as leading bishop of the Greek Catholic Church was arrested by the Soviet authorities. Following the Lviv Council (1946), the Greek Catholic Church was forcibly abolished on the territory of the Soviet Union, and its property and clergy transferred to the Russian Orthodox Church.\"\n\n\"In 1963 the Archbishop of Lviv was elevated to the rank of Major archbishop. With fall of the Soviet Union, in 1989 the Metropolitan of Galicia was revived.\"\n\n\n\"In 2005 Exarch of Kyiv-Galicia was transformed into a diocese and converted into an archdiocese. The new archdiocese was also turned into the Major Archbishop's see and reinstating the Kyiv see since the 1838 Synod of Polotsk.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "466973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466973", "title": "Mad About You", "text": "Mad About You\n\nMad About You is an American sitcom that aired on NBC from September 23, 1992 to May 24, 1999. The show starred Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt as a married couple in New York City. In April 2018, it was announced that Sony Pictures Television will revive the show with the two lead actors to reprise their roles. However in July 2018, Reiser said that the revival \"likely won't happen\". In September 2018, Reiser stated that the revival is still on the table, it's that \"the studio needs to figure out if they know how to do it.” \n\nThe show won many awards including four Golden Globe Awards and twelve Primetime Emmy Awards.\n\nThe series focuses mainly on newlyweds Paul Buchman, a documentary filmmaker, and Jamie Stemple Buchman, a public relations specialist, as they deal with everything from humorous daily minutiae to major struggles. Near the end of the show's run, they have a baby daughter, whom they name Mabel.\n\nHelen Hunt and Paul Reiser were paid $1 million per episode for the last season (with their contracts calling for them to be paid equally). However, ratings fell sharply that year as the series was shuffled away from its Tuesday slot to prop up a fledgling Monday night line-up of comedies on NBC.\n\nThe show's theme song, \"Final Frontier\", was composed by Reiser and Don Was. The theme was originally performed by Andrew Gold, but a version performed by Anita Baker made its debut at the beginning of the sixth season. Baker's version was used on several episodes of the last two seasons, in addition to Gold's version, and appears on the show's soundtrack album. Gold's version is available on the collection \"Thank You for Being a Friend: The Best of Andrew Gold\".\n\n\n\n\"Mad About You\" has had numerous connections to other NBC sitcoms set in New York City, as well as various other programs.\n\n\"Friends\" (owned by Warner Bros. Television): Lisa Kudrow played the recurring role of Ursula, a flaky waitress at Riff's Bar, a local restaurant that Paul and Jamie frequented. Kudrow went on to star in the NBC sitcom \"Friends\", playing the also somewhat flaky character of Phoebe Buffay, and for a time both series shared the same Thursday night line-up. While not originally intended, the characters of Ursula and Phoebe were later found to be identical twin sisters. In a \"Friends\" episode (\"The One With The Two Parts\", 1st Season), as part of a night of NBC sitcom crossovers, Jamie and Fran walk into Central Perk and mistake Phoebe for Ursula. Hunt and Kenzle were not identified on screen as Jamie and Fran. In the season three episode \"Pandora's Box\", Jamie causes a citywide power blackout in New York City, and the effects of the blackout are seen in the \"Friends\" episode, \"The One with the Blackout\", and there was also a blackout in the episode \"Birthday in the Big House\" of the short-lived NBC sitcom \"Madman of the People\", which leaves open the possibility that the characters from this program may also exist in the same universe as the characters of \"Mad About You.\" All three episodes originally aired during the evening of November 3, 1994, alongside a \"Seinfeld\" episode which did not incorporate the blackout premise.\n\n\"Seinfeld\": In one episode (\"The Apartment\", 1st Season), Paul, pressured by Jamie, decides to sign over the lease of his old \"bachelor pad\" to the current tenant who is subleasing. When the tenant is revealed to be Cosmo Kramer (Michael Richards) of \"Seinfeld\", Paul asks Kramer \"What ever happened to that Jerry guy who used to live there?\" \"Seinfeld\", however, twice contradicted this connection, once even featuring a running joke about George's distaste for his fiancee Susan's fondness for watching \"Mad About You\". In the \"Mad About You\" season seven episode \"Season Opener\", Paul, under the effects of Viagra, ran into Jerry Seinfeld in the street, who tells Paul to go away. At this point in \"Seinfeld\"'s chronology, Jerry Seinfeld was supposed to be in prison. One implication of Jerry's appearance is that he had turned prison \"snitch\" and earned early release.\n\n\"The Dick Van Dyke Show\": Carl Reiner reprised the role of Alan Brady from the 1960s sitcom (a series acknowledged as an inspiration for \"Mad About You\"). The episode made several references to the older show, such as Jamie at one point crying and whining \"Oh, Paul!\" – a signature move by Mary Tyler Moore's character Laura Petrie. Ten episodes earlier, Paul almost trips over a box and says, \"Get me, I'm Dick Van Dyke.\"\n\n\n\"Mad About You\" won a Golden Globe Award, a Peabody Award, a Genesis Award, received five Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series, and was chosen Best Quality Comedy by the Viewers for Quality Television. Helen Hunt won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress – Comedy Series four years in a row (1996–99).\n\nIn 1997, Atlantic Records released a \"Mad About You\" soundtrack. The soundtrack from and inspired by the sitcom, is composed of fun and sentimental songs and clips from the show. The tracks are organized chronologically marking the milestones of the couple's relationship. The album is bookended by the two versions of Paul Reiser's song \"Final Frontier\"—the first track is the classic version used in the show's opening, and the last track is Anita Baker's jazzy, full-length rendition, with Reiser on keyboard. The 21 tracks are as follows:\n\nSony Pictures Home Entertainment has released the first three seasons of \"Mad About You\" on DVD in Region 1 and 4. The first two seasons were also released in Region 2. Due to poor sales, no subsequent seasons were released by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.\n\nIn February 2010, Shout! Factory acquired the rights to release the remaining seasons of \"Mad About You\" on DVD. They subsequently released seasons 4 and 5 on DVD.\n\nOn August 27, 2013, it was announced that Mill Creek Entertainment had acquired the rights to various television series from the Sony Pictures library including \"Mad About You\". They subsequently re-released the first and second seasons on DVD on August 5, 2014.\n\nMill Creek released the complete series on a 14-DVD set on May 3, 2016. The complete series package has been edited, to an unknown degree. One fan of the series finale noticed, to his regret, that some parts were removed from the finale.\n\n\"A Chinese adaptation\" aired on Dragon TV on January 4, 2016. An Argentine remake titled \"Loco por vos\" aired on Telefe in August, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "76902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76902", "title": "Nicotiana", "text": "Nicotiana\n\nNicotiana () is a genus of herbaceous plants and shrubs of the family Solanaceae, that is indigenous to the Americas, Australia, south west Africa and the South Pacific. Various \"Nicotiana\" species, commonly referred to as tobacco plants, are cultivated as ornamental garden plants. \"N. tabacum\" is grown worldwide for production of tobacco leaf for cigarettes and other tobacco products.\n\nThe 67 species include;\n\n\nThe word \"nicotiana\" (as well as \"nicotine\") was named in honor of Jean Nicot, French ambassador to Portugal, who in 1559 sent it as a medicine to the court of Catherine de' Medici.\n\nDespite containing enough nicotine and/or other compounds such as germacrene and anabasine and other piperidine alkaloids (varying between species) to deter most herbivores, a number of such animals have evolved the ability to feed on \"Nicotiana\" species without being harmed. Nonetheless, tobacco is unpalatable to many species and therefore some tobacco plants (chiefly Tree Tobacco, \"N. glauca\") have become established as invasive species in some places.\n\nIn the 19th century, young tobacco plantings came under increasing attack from flea beetles (\"Epitrix cucumeris\" and/or \"Epitrix pubescens\"), causing destruction of half the United States tobacco crop in 1876. In the years afterward, many experiments were attempted and discussed to control the flea beetle. By 1880, it was discovered that covering young plants with a frame covered with thin fabric (instead of with branches, as had previously been used for frost control) would effectively protect plants from the beetle. This practice spread until it became ubiquitous in the 1890s.\n\nLepidoptera whose caterpillars feed on \"Nicotiana\" include:\n\n\nThese are mainly Noctuidae and some Sphingidae.\n\nSeveral species of \"Nicotiana\", such as \"N. sylvestris\", \"N. alata\" 'Lime Green' and \"N. langsdorffii\" are grown as ornamental plants, often under the name of Flowering Tobacco. They are popular vespertines (evening bloomers), their sweet-smelling flowers opening in the evening to be visited by hawkmoths and other pollinators. In temperate climates they behave as annuals (Hardiness 9a-11).\nThe hybrid cultivars Domino Series and 'Lime Green' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n\nGarden varieties are derived from \"N. alata\" (e.g. 'Niki' and 'Saratoga' series) and more recently from \"Nicotiana x sanderae\" (e.g. 'Perfume' and 'Domino' series).\n\nThe tobacco budworm (\"Heliothis virescens\") has proven to be a massive pest of many species in the genus, and has resisted many attempts at management.\n\n"}
{"id": "40026010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026010", "title": "Ochpaniztli", "text": "Ochpaniztli\n\nOchpaniztli was largely concerned with sweeping, which was a reference to the rush of winds that occurred in the valley of Mexico before the winter rains came, the end of the growing season and the start of the harvesting season, the season of war when the Mexica went to war for captives to sacrifice to the gods, who could never have enough human flesh to eat. For the first five days of Ochpaniztli, the emphasis was on silence and quiet in Tenochtitlan. On the sixth day and continuing for eight more, warriors would march through the streets of Tenochtitlan carrying flowering branches until dusk. The warriors maintained tight discipline as they circled in elaborate maneuvers carrying marigolds and in complete silence except for the beating of the drums. After eight days, the women of the doctor's guild and the midwives guild, all wearing the tobacco poach that showed their membership in the guilds, would come out to engage in mock battles on the streets of Tenochtitlan. The women attacked each in mock combat with the branches and flowers rolled into balls dropped by the warriors, before sweeping the streets so that the woman dressed as Toci, \"Our Grandmother\" would be paraded through the streets. Toci, the \"Woman of Discord\", in Mexica religion, loved the carnage and bloody mayhem of war, and it was to honor her that Ochpanitztli marked the beginning of the season of war. To honor Toci, a young female slave was chosen to be the \"ixipta\" (proxy) for Toci, being kept in a cage and being especially cleaned everyday to prepare her for her sacrifice for Toci. It was very important that the woman chosen to die for Toci was ritually pure for her sacrifice, being guarded by other women who kept her in a cage both to prevent her escape and to ensure that she did not have sex for the twenty days prior to her death, making her a \"pure\" victim. The mock battles between the women as they pelted each other with balls of cactus leaves, moss, marigolds and reeds was to make the \"ixipta\" laugh, because the young woman chosen to die was never allowed to cry. \n\nThe climax of the festival of Ochpaniztli was the sacrifice of a young woman from one of the peoples subjected to the power of the Mexica who for four days was bedecked with flowers and perfume and was teased by the woman taking care of her day about her impending doom. The woman was dressed as Toci and had black make-up applied around her mouth while the rest of her face was covered in white make-up, thereby making her resemble Toci whose face was a deathly shade of white except for her area around her mouth where her skin was black. One of Toci's favorite foods besides human flesh was human excrement, and this diet had turned the skin around her mouth permanently black. The woman chosen as the sacrificial victim was forced to smile at all times and was severely beaten by the other women guarding her if she cried because it was felt that her tears would spoil the ceremony as it was believed that every tear would cause a stillbirth or the death of a warrior in battle in the next year. By contrast, the rain god Tlaloc required the sacrifice of children to honor him, and it was believed that the tears of the doomed children would ensure rain in the coming year, so the Mexica went to great lengths to have the children destined to die for Tlaloc to cry as much as possible before their hearts were ripped out.\n\nThe Australian historian Inga Clendinnen wrote that the young woman chosen as the sacrifice victim must had been in a state close to \"hysteria\" as she knew when the night came on the fifth day, she would die while being forced to smile all the time at the prospect. On the fifth day to honor the Toci, the young woman was marched through the streets of Tenochtitlan surrounded by other women, spreading maize and flowers before being taken in the evening to the temple of the Maize Lord. Joining the woman chosen to die on her last day were men dressed in the style of the Huaxteca people living on the Gulf coast, whom the Mexica despised as cowardly warriors, but whom were widely admired as the Huaxteca men were reputably the most well endowed men in Mexico and were famed as great lovers. The young woman wore a dress of maguey fiber, which she herself had woven and which she sold on the last day of her life in the marketplace. To calm the girl down, she was told by the other women that she would not be sacrificed, but instead would have sex with the \"Tlatoani\" (emperor) in public on top of the pyramid. At the pyramid, she was laid on a slab facing the sky, had her mouth bound so she could not scream and she was sacrificed by having her head slowly sawed off by using an obsidian knife as she was laid there bound, staring upwards at the stars, so the crops might grow in the next season. The sacrifice of the women recalled the story about how Toci came to be, when Actitometl, the leader of the Culhua people had given his daughter in marriage to the Mexica leader, who promptly sacrificed her to Huitzilopochtli, the god of war, becoming Toci in the moment of her death. Clendinnen described what happened next: \"Then, still in darkness, silence, and urgent haste, her body was flayed, and a naked priest, a 'very strong man, very powerful, very tall', struggled into the wet skin, with its slack breasts and pouched genitalia: a double nakedness of layered, ambiguous sexuality. The skin of one thigh was reserved to be fashioned into a face-mask for the man impersonating Centeotl, Young Lord Maize Cob, the son of Toci\". At that point, the priest wearing the bloody skin of the victim become Toci, and was seen as a \"woman\", always being addressed as she and her. The man seen as \"Toci\" was followed by four barely dressed, well endowed young men wearing tight loincloths so that their erect penises would be all too visible while wearing cotton blossoms and carrying spindles, symbols of femininity in Mexica culture, which were meant to emphasize the ambiguous sexuality of the gods who could be either male, female or change sex as the circumstances required. Xilonen, the goddess of maize changed sex over the course of the growing season, becoming Centeotl, the Maize Lord. Maize in its early stages was slender with long hair and had milky kernels whose shapes reminded the Mexica of breasts, all suggestive of a woman's body while its later stages it was hard, erect, and phallic shaped which the Mexica explained was due to Xilonen, the Maize Lady becoming Centeotl, the Maize Lord. As the maize was harvested, Centeotl was \"castrated\" by the cutting of the phallic shaped maize, causing him to turn back into the maiden Xilonen. Clendinnen described pictures of the four young men wearing Huaxteca hats (the Huaxteca were legendary in Mexico for their erotic skills) as having \"glorious erections\", evoking a very masculine and sexualized imaginary despite being dressed in mostly feminine style. Despite the fact that the men were wore the conical Huaxteca hats, the Mexica detested the Huaxteca. In 1487, the Huaxteca revolted against their overlords, leading the Mexica to launch a genocidal war against the Huaxteca, with every captured Huaxteca being marched back to Tenochtitlan.. Mexica accounts boast that over four days, 80, 000 Huaxteca men, women and children were killed to celebrate the opening of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan and the Huaxteca were no more, through Clendinnen cautioned that 20, 000 killed is more a realistic number.\nAt the foot of the pyramid, the chief priest and warriors greeted \"Toci\" and \"her\" four young men, and would flee in mock terror as \"Toci\" and company would sweep the streets on their way to the Great Pyramid. The mock-terror of the warriors was all the more remarkable as a popular Mexica poem had boasted that \"Here no one fears to die in war\" as the aggressively militaristic Mexica loathed cowardice and to die in battle was the highest honor for a man, which indicated the fear the Mexica had for \"Our Grandmother\". At the Great Pyramid, \"Toci\" together with the man wearing the mask made of human skin playing the Maize Lord were taken to the top of the Great Pyramid to sit on \"her\" throne with \"her son\" sitting next to her, where in the morning they greeted the priests as they arrived at the Great Pyramid. To honor \"her\" arrival, a number of prisoners of war were crucified at the foot of the temple and were killed by warriors shooting arrows at them. Blood from the victims was collected in a bowl to be given to \"Toci\", who drank some of it, and then began to growl terribly, reflecting her displeasure with the sacrifice, as Toci could never have enough cruelty to satisfy her bloodlust. Toci was greeted by a man dressed as Huitzilopochtli, her husband, and the two would engage in sexual gestures, to symbolize the \"divine sexual union\" that took place after Toci had been sacrificed, becoming a goddess who married Huitzilopochtli. Upon being seated at the top of the temple, the priests would crown \"Toci\" with a crown made of paper. The priests would dress \"Toci\" with make-up, feathers and a dress, and once properly dressed, \"Toci\" would sacrifice four male prisoners brought before \"her\" by cutting out their hearts with an obsidian knife. \"Toci\" would then retire while man playing Centeotl, the Maize Lord would appear at the front of the Great Pyramid to review a parade of warriors marching before him. The face mask of human skin was then sent out as a challenge for another people, for Ochpaniztli was always the beginning of the season of war. After receiving weapons from the ruler, the warriors would sing and dance around the Great Pyramid while the women of Tenochtitlan would engage in much wailing at the prospect that their sons would die in the wars to come. At the end of the dancing and singing, priests would emerge from the Great Pyramid wearing the skin of other victims to throw maize seeds at the people. The Fire Priest of Huitzilopochtli would then set out a bowel full of chalk and feathers (symbols of death) at the top of the Great Pyramid while the warriors would charge up to toss around and smear the chalk and feathers upon themselves, showing their willingness to die in battle. \"Toci\" or \"our grandmother\" as the Mexica also called her would reemerge from the Great Pyramid and again the warriors would flee in mock terror from her. For the Mexica, sex and war were closely linked; sex led to children, which made it possible for boys to grow up to become the warriors who would fight the wars of the next generation and childbirth itself was the \"battle\" that every women had to fight. The purpose of the Mexica Triple Alliance of states on the shores of Lake Texcoco was to fight wars, to take prisoners who would be sacrificed as the Mexica believed that the gods would not allow the sun to rise everyday unless they were given human flesh to eat the day before, thus requiring daily sacrifices at the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan and endless wars to supply the victims to die at the Great Pyramid. Sometimes, the warriors ran in mock terror to the edge of Tenochtitlan, where they may have engaged in mock battles with other warriors or may have actually raided the territories of other people, engaging in real battles. \n\n\"Toci\" then marched through the streets of Tenochtitlan to the edge of the city, where the priest would become \"male\" again by removing the skin of the young woman, which then stretched over a wooden platform to face visitors to Tenochtitlan. As \"Toci\" removed her skin, it symbolized the change in personality of \"our grandmother\" from the kindly goddess of healing and health to her real nature, the merciless goddess of war, the eater of men who could never have enough blood to drink and human flesh to devour. In Mexica myth, during their wanderings, the ruler of Culhua had offered up his daughter, a gentle princess in marriage to one of the Mexica leaders, but Huitzilopochtli, the god of war and the sun ordered her skinned alive and sacrificed instead; the once gentle and kind princess transformed at the moment of her death into Toci, \"our grandmother\", the wrathful goddess of war. Toci's savage, fierce hatred of humanity stemmed from her anger at being skinned alive and sacrificed during her last hours as a human, which explained her insatiable bloodlust and her cruelty, making her into the \"woman of discord\" as Huitzilopochtli wanted. Hutzilopochtli promptly married Toci, as her blood-thirstiness and cruelty made her into the ideal wife for him. \n\nSexual differences were key to the Mexica understanding of the universe, where male and female counterbalanced each other to achieve order in the cosmos. However, in the Mexica understanding of the world, the male body only become sacred after men were \"made\" into warriors via training and battle while the female body, capable of bearing life, was sacred in and of itself. Priests as men achieved their position through constant training while when the priests become \"priestess\" when draped in the body of a woman become powerful in and of themselves as the female body was always viewed as innately sacred. Mexica society was a patriarchal one and war was a masculine activity. However, the appeal of female sexuality gave women a certain power over men, and thus women who always considered trouble-makers in Mexica society, which was full of stories of women using the appeal of their sexuality to manipulate men, and in the process causing much trouble. Given this view of women, it is no accident that one of the chief deities of war was Toci, the \"Woman of Discord\", who symbolized the troublesome appeal of female sexuality as a disputative force. The sacrifices of the young people was done publicly and was always the cause of great celebration and joy among the Mexica who believed the Mazie Lord would reward them with a good harvest in the coming year. \n\nThe Australian historian Keith Windschuttle has used holidays like Ochpaniztli as part of his indictment of multiculturalism, which argues that all cultures are of equal value. Windschuttle has argued under multiculturalism, the bloodthirsty culture of the Mexica must be considered equal with Western culture, a position that Windschuttle rejects as he argued that Mexica culture was \"so perverted and alien to all the natural springs of life that its people indeed justify the label of \"The Other\", and was the Spanish conquest of Mexico, which resulted in the destruction of Mexica culture, should not be condemned by historians.\n"}
{"id": "2278666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278666", "title": "Pastoral counseling", "text": "Pastoral counseling\n\nPastoral counseling is a branch of counseling in which psychologically trained ministers, rabbis, priests, imams, and other persons provide therapy services. Pastoral counselors often integrate modern psychological thought and method with traditional religious training in an effort to address psychospiritual issues in addition to the traditional spectrum of counseling services.\n\n\"What distinguishes pastoral counseling from other forms of counseling and psychotherapy is the role and accountability of the counselor and his or her understanding and expression of the pastoral relationship. Pastoral counselors are representatives of the central images of life and its meaning affirmed by their religious communities. Thus pastoral counseling offers a relationship to that understanding of life and faith. Pastoral counseling uses both psychological and theological resources to deepen its understanding of the pastoral relationship.\" Membership in several organizations that combine theology and mental health has grown in recent years. Some pastoral counselors have developed special training programs to encourage cooperation between religious professionals and medical professionals on treatment of issues like addiction, since spirituality is an important part of recovery for many people.\n\nPastoral counseling had its beginnings a separate discipline in North America in the first half of the twentieth century, as various religious organizations began to incorporate the insights and training of psychiatry, psychology and social work into the training of clergy. In 1925, Dr. Richard Cabot, a physician and adjunct at Harvard Divinity School, published an article in the \"Survey Graphic\" suggesting that every candidate for the ministry receive clinical training for pastoral work similar to the clinical training offered to medical students. In the 1930s, the Rev. Anton Boisen began a program of placing theological students in supervised contact with mental patients. In time, many seminaries and other training programs for religious professionals began to include clinical pastoral education as part of clerical training. Also in the 1930s, the minister Norman Vincent Peale and the psychiatrist, Dr. Smiley Blanton, collaborated to form the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry, now known as the Blanton-Peale Institute. Today, hundreds of mental health centers with links to specific religious traditions may be found across North America. In 1963, the American Association of Pastoral Counselors was founded to provide professional certification for pastoral counselors and pastoral counseling centers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42947798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42947798", "title": "Psychology of religion and dreams", "text": "Psychology of religion and dreams\n\nDreams have been interpreted in many different ways from being a source of power to the capability of understanding and communicating with the dead. Traditional forms of societies considered dreams as portals to another world, a spirit world. These societies would even say they could gain most of their religious ideas from dreams. They could identify the sacred and gain access to sacred realms or portals to the supernatural. Psychologists have been researching dreams as of the 21st century because the connection between religious connotations in dreams has brought about growth and health. However, many different psychologists claim there is very little evidence to the research on the psychology of religion and dreams.\n\nThe contemporary 21st century has brought about a scientific materialism that can be detrimental to understanding the concept of dreams and how to interpret them. Traditionally, the concept of dreaming and interpreting dreams through religious means is universal. Some of the cultures around the world consider dream interpretation through their religious views as a means of spiritual discipline. A psychological view of this connection between religious views and dream interpretation stems from analyzing the content of dreams. The continuity theory has proposed that dream and waking cognition have everything in common except that dream cognition does not have the capability of being reflective. The counter argument to this theory would purpose that dream and waking cognition are completely different. Researchers such as Carl Jung and Sigmund Freud have claimed that dream processing must include a more symbolic approach, utilizing metaphors to explain its purposes.\n\nMany different researchers have tried to understand the purpose behind dreaming and state their most apprehensive work behind understanding early childhood dreams. Sigmund Freud (1900/1965) claimed that dreams from childhood were illustrations of wish-fulfillment dreams that begin in naivety during childhood and escalate into later adulthood. Carl Jung (1974) believed that childhood dreams were a sign of transpersonal wisdom from the unconscious. G. William Domhoff (1996) and S. H. Foulkes (1999) were both known for arguing childhood dreams as a reflection of the immature development involved in the consciousness of a young child, involving characteristics such as being passive and bland. Antti Revonsuo (2000) was in support of childhood dreams, in particular nightmares, to better support his idea of \"threat simulation theory\" found in dreaming.\n\nFrom the earliest of ones, dreams have been best interpreted as part of a religious worldview. Traditional societies wouldn't have had a problem declaring dreams to be more than just a psychological state, but of an encounter with a different realm. Most of the world's religious traditions in the 21st century have considered dreams to be sacred and part of a religious landscape. Each culture has a different way of expressing their traditions and contemporary beliefs on dream and interpretation. It is important to explore these different worldviews to gain a better sense of the relation between religion and dreams.\n\nNative Americans' belief of dreaming is more similar to Buddhism versus that of common Western beliefs. Their view of dreams and dream interpretation looks similar to that of an interactive conversation. The conversation happens between them and the world. They are able to have this conversation because they don't see a difference between dreaming and waking reality, but rather an overlapping experience. In this particular event in which they are overlapping worlds, they are able to open up their spiritual eyes to the visible and invisible, the audible and inaudible. The main goal of dreaming within this worldviews is twofold. They first look to gain a strong connection between them and the world as well as enhance their self-knowledge and respect among their tribe.\n\nThe belief of dreams tying with religious themes in the Western worldview was not something that was naturally intuitive. By having belief in these things, the Western culture would open their minds to a non-rational and imaginative force that opens up people's mind to understanding realism with evil and how one can have hope over it. Pursuing dreams does not require God or gods and is why the Western culture receives this practice openly among their religious views and lifestyles. There has been debate among researchers as to whether researching dreams is worthwhile. Some have debated that dreams are purposeless and completely random, whereas other have suggested dreams having an adaptive function that allows for positive implications. Although there isn't findings of specifically lowering negative effects, research has alluded to dreams embellished with religious themes having a positive benefit for the user. The biggest finding was related to dreams and religion included exploring this connection as a form of coping. This effect of the Western worldview of dreams and dream interpretation with religious connotations has spread as far as the churches in Nigeria, Africa. These churches believed their leaders in the church would receive frequent dreams that would guide them and their followers to a special spiritual status.\n\nAmidst different Hinduism and Buddhist contexts, there are different theories such as sleepless dreaming that appear. This is unique to the Eastern culture because it is rarely mentioned with the Western culture when discussing the possibility of dreams and religion. The only time Western writers talk of dreamless sleep is when referencing Hindu or Buddhist contexts. This Eastern viewpoint gives a unique insight on how practices in Buddhist circles can be contextualized. This dreamless sleep as mentioned prior is part of Tibetan Buddhism practice of achieving a particular mental state before going into sleep. They describe this experience as such of having visions and they require some visual criteria to be present for dreamless sleep to be achieved. Its highest form of praise is that it gives practical guidelines for the practicing Buddhist and their progress in meditation.\n\nThe Muslim society believes different forms of dreaming can help people come into contact with past martyrs of their faith. Their purpose is to give the dreamer full understanding of the martyr's existence and implications towards the future. Different examples of how dreams can affect the future of Muslims include but are not limited to: showing a prosperous future, motivate them into moral or spiritual development and warning them of impending dangers. Decisions made by Muslims can be as important as deciding a future spouse can be determined through one particular dream. The ultimate purpose behind these dreams is to give the devout Muslim a deeper insight into the truth that is not available in waking reality.\n"}
{"id": "1409616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409616", "title": "Quaker wedding", "text": "Quaker wedding\n\nQuaker weddings are the traditional ceremony of marriage within the Religious Society of Friends.\n\nAfter the local meeting had approved the couple's intention, an announcement would be made and posted in the market on market day. After this the wedding could take place. Outsiders sometimes criticized Quaker couples for living in sin because they married each other without priests or ministers. George Fox, founder of the Society of Friends, and Margaret Fell married using a modification of this procedure in 1669.\n\nTwo years later, when Fox was in Barbados, he sent out another epistle. In this epistle, Fox advocated giving women's meetings the initial responsibility to pass on a couple's intentions when the couple had expressed a desire to be wed. This advice became quite controversial among those who did not want to see women's roles expanded. \n\nWhen a couple decides to get married they declare their intentions to marry to the meeting (either in writing or in person). In many Yearly Meetings, the meeting then appoints a clearness committee to talk with the couple and make sure that they have properly prepared themselves for marriage. If the committee is clear that this couple is ready, they recommend that the monthly meeting should take this wedding “under their care” and appoint a committee to ensure the couple makes all the needed arrangements for the wedding ceremony. These duties vary but may include helping schedule the date, finding premarital counseling, making the Quaker marriage certificate, making sure the couple knows how to acquire and file any legal documents. In other Yearly Meetings, clearness committees are an option the couple can choose.\n\nIn America, some couples choose to marry within the meeting without registering their marriage with the government, a tradition dating back to Quakerism's earliest days. Meetings generally encourage couples to seek legal advice before undertaking this option. Common law marriage (also called \"marriage by habit and repute\"), by which a couple were legally married simply through cohabitation \"and\" by holding themselves out to the world to be husband and wife, is no longer a valid method of marriage in most American jurisdictions. If a couple later needs to prove that they are married, the Quaker wedding certificate signed by witnesses at the ceremony may be sufficient in some states of the United States. A few states have statutes that specifically recognize Quaker marriages, in which ministers are not officiants, as legal.\n\nHowever, most Yearly Meetings and Monthly Meetings encourage Friends marrying under their care to obtain marriage licenses and have them signed by a representative of the Meeting and duly file the licenses with the state. This is a special concern since common law marriages, under which Quaker marriages were formerly valid in many states, no longer is legally recognized in the USA. There is some discomfort with the obtaining and filing of marriage licenses for heterosexual couples in Meetings in which the joining of homosexual or lesbian couples is recognized, because of the Quaker concern for equality. Various means of dealing with issue have been worked out in Monthly Meetings and Yearly Meetings.\n\nSame-sex couples can also be married with or without government documents in some meetings (see Homosexuality and Quakerism).\n\nA traditional wedding ceremony in a Friends meeting is similar to any other Meeting for Worship, and therefore often very different from the experience expected by non-Friends. The attendees gather for silent worship, often with the couple sitting in front of the meeting (this may depend on the layout of the particular Friends meeting house).\n\nOut of the silence, the couple will exchange what the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting describes as \"promises\", and Britain Yearly Meeting describes as \"declarations\" with each other. The promises are short, simple, and egalitarian, and can vary between different regions and meetings. Traditionally, Quakers do not swear or make oaths, because they intend to tell the truth at all times, and thus have no need of swearing.\n\nSince traditionally Friends have no clergy, there is no one person to “marry” them. Instead they believe that they are married by God, and declare their intentions before God and those gathered. They believe that the marriage is merely \"witnessed\" by those present. George Fox, a man important in the establishment of the Religious Society of Friends wrote in 1669:\n\n\"For the right joining in marriage is the work of the Lord only, and not the priests' or the magistrates'; for it is God's ordinance and not man's; and therefore Friends cannot consent that they should join them together: for we marry none; it is the Lord's work, and we are but witnesses\"\n\nThe administrative tasks associated with the marriage are completed by a Registering Officer, who is a person specially appointed by the Monthly Meeting in which the couple are to be married. However, this person is purely responsible for the \"administration\" of matters such as the certificate, and does not \"marry\" the couple.\n\nUsually, there are no bridesmaids or other special roles in the wedding other than that of bride and groom.\n\nThe couple then signs the Quaker wedding certificate. All those present are invited to give ministry with the gathered meeting as they feel led (as in any other Meeting for Worship, see main article on the Society of Friends). At the close of worship all those present at the meeting are asked to sign the wedding certificate as witnesses. Often the certificate is hung prominently in the home of the couple as a reminder of the declarations they made, and of the people with whom they shared that moment of their lives.\n\nThe declarations made by the couple in meetings for worship for the solemnisation of marriage in Britain Yearly Meeting are as follows (words in \"italics\" are optional):\n\n\"\"In the presence of God\" (OR \"In the fear of the Lord and in the presence of this assembly\"), Friends, I take this my friend NAME to be my spouse*, promising, through divine assistance (OR with God's help), to be unto him/her a loving and faithful spouse*, so long as we both on earth shall live (OR until it shall please the Lord by death to separate us)\"\n\nThe declarations may also be made in the Welsh language.\n\nQuaker marriage has been subject of special law in England and Wales from the 18th century to the present day. The first Marriage Act 1753, which regulated the legal and civic recognition of marriage, recognised only marriages conducted by the \"Society of Friends\", Jews and the Church of England, and removed recognition of \"common law marriage\" or marriage conducted by any other religious group. Thus, Quakers' marriages were legally recognised at a time when marriages within other non-conformist traditions were not legally recognised.\n\nThis special exemption for Quakers has continued in subsequent Marriage Acts in England and Wales up to and including the Marriage Act 1949 which allows \"marriage in according to the usages of the Society of Friends, commonly called Quakers\". Quakers and Jews were exempt from the restrictions within the Marriage Act 1949 from the requirements to marry in certain approved locations or at certain times, so were the only groups who were (theoretically) allowed to, for example, marry outdoors or in the middle of the night (although in practice Quaker marriages are performed in a place where there is a regular Meeting for Worship held, so would not usually take place outside).\n\nThe law with regard to Quaker weddings in England and Wales is based around Section 47 of the Marriage Act 1949 \"Marriages according to usages of the Society of Friends\" \n\nQuaker marriages in England and Wales have \"two\" marriage certificates:\n\nQuakers decided to offer marriage on an equal basis to same sex couples in 2009. Same sex marriage was recognized in law in 2014 in England, Scotland and Wales.\n\nA governmental marriage license is not usually part of the ceremony, and can be signed at a separate time if desired. In many areas, the license must be signed by an \"officiant,\" which in most cases is one or more members of an oversight committee. In the District of Columbia and the states of Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Illinois, Colorado, and California self-uniting marriage licenses are available which require only the signatures of the bride and groom and witnesses.\n\nMost if not all states provide by statute that a few members of the Meeting, duly appointed by name under its normal business procedure, are thereby legally competent to jointly sign and file the marriage license as the \"officiants.\" Since Friends meetings have traditionally considered a wedding (and indeed the entire marriage) of their members to be under their pastoral care, creating such an \"oversight committee\" for the wedding is fairly standard even regardless of any such statute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38271864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38271864", "title": "Quinkan rock art", "text": "Quinkan rock art\n\nQuinkan rock art refers to a large body of locally, nationally and internationally significant Australian Aboriginal rock art of a style characterized by their unique representations of \"Quinkans\" (an Aboriginal mythological being, often spelt \"Quinkin\"), found among the sandstone escarpments around the small town of Laura, Queensland (aka Quinkan region or Quinkan country)\n\nThe Australian Heritage Commission's 1980 entry on the register of the national estate describes the Quinkan rock art as being located across 230 000 hectares of rugged sandstone plateaux and escarpments 4 km south east of Laura and 50 km west of Cooktown\n\nSelected sites are open for visits by the public, through guided tours with local Aboriginal guides organised by the Quinkan Regional Cultural Centre. Split Rock, approximately 15 km south of Laura, is currently open to self-guided visitors for a small fee. The Quinkan Reserves, owned by Aboriginal Trustees, are closed to public access.\n\nThe Australian Heritage Commission's 1980 national estate entry describes the Quinkan rock art as constituting \"..some of the largest bodies of prehistoric art in the world. The paintings are generally large and well preserved, and engravings of great antiquity occur. The Quinkan art is outstanding both in variety, quantity and quality\"\n\nThe two brothers, Dr. George Musgrave and Dr. Tommy George dedicated their lives to protecting the rock art and teaching a number of younger Aboriginal Traditional Owners about the history and stories relating to their connection to the land and rock art of the Quinkan region.\n\nRock art types include painting, stencil and engravings. Painting is generally in a figurative style, with people, animals and their tracks and mythical beings are depicted, usually in one or two colours. Red ochre dominates although white, yellow, black and a rare blue pigment also exist. Engravings of both figurative and abstract styles are found throughout Quinkan country.\n\nCultural heritage of the Quinkan region also includes story places, campsites and other evidence of Aboriginal people's long occupation history. In the 1870s the Palmer River Goldrush brought a large influx of European and Chinese miners into Quinkan country, with thousands of miners traversing through here between the goldfields and the port of Cooktown. Despite the violent clashes that took place between miners and Aboriginal people, and the subsequent attempts at control of Aboriginal people by government policy, a highly significant connection to country and culture by Aboriginal people remains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26924086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26924086", "title": "Religious symbolism in U.S. sports team names and mascots", "text": "Religious symbolism in U.S. sports team names and mascots\n\nThe following is a list of American sports team names and mascots that are based upon or use religious symbolism. Because of the prevalence of Christian groups and institutions throughout the history of the United States, many of these symbols can be assumed to have come from Christian sources. However, teams deriving their image from symbols belonging to other systems of religious and pseudo-religious beliefs have also been included.\n\nSports clubs and teams select their image or mascot based on any number of factors, including choosing an image based on a desire to pick a symbol that will attempt to convey the assets the clubs and teams aim to display, such as strength, courage, aggression, and endurance. Scholars have drawn connections between desires such as these and the religious totems found in polytheism, where visual representations of animals serve as symbols to express the physical and spiritual qualities of community.\nAdoration of a mascot by a school or company can be seen as religiously significant. However, economic factors also come into play, as both schools and sports-franchise owners want to make money. Just as an appealing, marketable symbol can generate vast revenue, so can profits suffer if a potentially offensive symbol alienates some potential fans. This consideration as well can explain why sectarian religious symbols rarely appear in sports-team names and mascots.\n\nMost of the teams listed here belong to schools and not to professional franchises. The reasons for this are subject to debate. In schools administrators, teachers, and parents act as a community to give students education in local values, and in many places these values come from religious institutions like churches and synagogues. So schools often become \"de facto\" representatives of a community's religious ideals as well as visual representatives of that community at a state, national, and international level. These conditions combine to make school sports a place for religious symbols, after they get filtered through the secular values both of the nation at large and of sport itself. This filtering produces mixed-value mascots like \"Demon Deacons\" of Wake Forest University and the \"Hustlin' Quakers\" (formerly \"Fightin' Quakers\", subsequently simply \"Quakers\") of Earlham College.\n\nDespite the sensitive nature of religious issues in the United States of America, religious imagery in American sport has generated little controversy. Subtle spins on generic symbols like the crusader have come under attack for their insensitivity to non-Christian groups, but by and large religiously inspired team names and mascots have not been scrutinized. This contrasts with team names and mascots from Native American cultural sources.\n\nThere seems to be a clustering of religiously inspired mascots and team symbols in the American Midwest. This area's population is predominantly Protestant or Calvinist and the culture of the Midwest tends to be conservative. This may be a reason for the preponderance of religion symbolism in even non-religious schools and institutions, but does not explain in any way why this symbolism would be Catholic in nature.\n\nThe institutions listed below—some of which are Catholic—endorse religious symbolism either by the team name or individual mascots. Some are negative, menacing symbols such as the various Demons and Devils, but a majority of them take on positive connotations within Catholicism. These include the Saints, Angels and Friars.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe University of the Incarnate Word decided in 2007 that it would perhaps be seen to be more open to students, instructors and parents of different faiths. The school decided that the name was \"inappropriate for a Catholic institution with a multicultural mission.\"\n\nCorlis McGee, president of Eastern Nazarene College, said, \"There's a growing awareness that the connotation of the word has changed, and the Crusader no longer represents the positive message of Christian love we want to share with the world.\" Other universities have decided to keep the mascot as a way to honor their histories and constantly remind students to \"communicate our desire to bring the good news and cross into every situation we encountered.\"\n\nSchools who have done away with the \"Crusaders\" mascot include Point Loma Nazarene University (now the Sea Lion), Eastern Nazarene College (now the Lions), Northwest Christian University (now the Beacons), Susquehanna University, The University of the Incarnate Word (the new mascot, the Cardinals, was chosen by students) and Wheaton College.\n\nOther schools have retained the name \"Crusaders\" as their team name and mascot, including College of the Holy Cross, Valparaiso University, North Greenville University, Evangel University, Clarke University, and the Northwest Nazarene University.\n\nIncluded here are team names and mascots associated with Protestantism. As the list suggests the visual vocabulary of non-Catholic Christianity, particularly in American sport, does not differ significantly from Catholic Christianity. What distinguishes this section has less to do with symbols themselves and more with context. Six of these schools are affiliated with the NCAA and one is affiliated with the NAIA.\n\nThe majority of these schools are located in Southeastern coastal states like North Carolina or South Carolina. In this part of the country religiously affiliated colleges and universities have existed since colonial times, when the majority of European Americans living in North American colonies were Protestant Christians. The religiously inspired team names and mascots are a part of this legacy, and associations between school spirit and local religious belief are therefore more historically acceptable in this part of the country.\n\nIn spite of this legacy, the teams at most Protestant affiliated colleges and schools do not identify with religious symbols. There are nearly 1,000 Protestant colleges and universities in the U.S. alone. But out of all of these, only 14 identify with religious names or mascots. That's less than 2%.\n\nThis makes sense, because not all of these names and mascots were inspired by religion. The origin of the famous Duke Blue Devil mascot for instance can be traced back to the World War I era. Units of French soldiers called \"les Diables Beus\" marshalled won fame in America. They inspired the Duke student body to make the Blue Devil the school's official mascot in 1911. The name was much more unpopular with the Methodism than with anyone else.\n\nThe inspiration for a name or mascot also comes from relationships and in particular, rivalries with other schools. Until 1937 Wake Forest's men's athletics teams were known as \"the Deacons,\" \"the Baptists,\" or \"Old Gold and Black.\" But after hiring a new coach and having way more success the school was looking for a way to show its prowess. They beat Duke in a game of football and the president prasied them for \"fighting like demons\" to clinch the win, so the name stuck. So the process of inventing an image for a sports team comes from relationships. Clubs and teams can make their images visual reminders of a meaningful moment in school nhisotry. Again, the suggested correlation between sports team mascots and the totems comes into play as some Native American tribes mixed images of vanquished enemies with their own to assimilate their powers.\n\nPowerful images of demons, devils and knights remind us of the mascots of Catholic teams, but Protestant teams also draw on symbols from their own beliefs, generally involving religious leadership and including Deacons, Preachers, Evangels, Quakers and Fightin Christians.\n\nThere are few professional teams that use religious symbolism in their mascots. This is probably driven by their desire to appeal to much larger and diverse fan bases than colleges and schools. Examples of this, where the name has no religious significance, include the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, whose name is simply alliterative and the New Orleans Saints, whose name is derived a well-known jazz song.\n\n\n\n\nMost teams with mascots such as \"Devils\" or \"Wizards\" have little to no affiliation with any religious groups. They may choose their mascots for the purpose of intimidating their opponents. Mascots are usually depicted as mischievous or even cute and have no spiritual representation.\nDevils are one of the most common mascots throughout American sports. This can likely be attributed to Christian beliefs being the most common of religions in the U.S. The devil is normally used as a fierce, intimidating image to represent teams.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27694019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27694019", "title": "Roniaur", "text": "Roniaur\n\nThe Roniaur are a Hindu Bania caste found in North India and Nepal. They are also known as Rauniyar and sometimes Roniyar. Like many other North India Bania castes, they use Gupta as a surname.\n\nThe Roniaur are a sub-group within the Bania community, and they get their name from the Hindi word 'rauna', which means hawking or peddling. They are found throughout Awadh, but their main concentration is the Maharajganj District. In addition, there are also small communities found in Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Mirzapur, Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and the Saran District in Bihar. They speak Awadhi among themselves, and Hindi with outsiders. Like other Banias, they are strict vegetarians.\n\nIn Bihar, the Roniaur are also known as Namnihar. They claim to have come from Awadh some three hundred years. The Roniaur are found mainly in the districts of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Munger, Bhagalpur, Nawada and Gaya. Their common surnames are Sah, Sahu, Gupta, Kesri and Modi. They are strictly endogamous, and practice clan exogamy. The Ronoaur speak Maithili in north east Bihar and Bhojpuri in western Bihar.\n\nIn Nepal, the Rauniyar or Roniaur live in Terai region mainly in Eastern Part. They use Gupta,shah,sah or simply Rauniyar as their surname. They speak Nepali and Maithili . Their main occupations are Business, Farming and are involved in different Jobs in various sectors.\n\nThe Roniaur are divided into three territorial groupings, the Purbia, Panchnaha and Bail Kuchnaha. Marriages are forbidden within each of these groups. They are further divided into a number of exogamous clans. The Roniaur are a landless community, and their traditional occupation has been the selling of cloths,food grains and pulses. They are often the petty shopkeepers in the villages of north Awadh. A few Roniaur were jagirdars, but they rarely ever cultivated their own land, depending on sharecroppers. Their customs are similar to other Awadh Bania, such as the Omar.\n\nIn Bihar, the Roniaur were both traders and landowners. Many were substantial jagirdars, but with the land reforms carried out after independence in 1947, and seen a break up of the larger estates in Bihar. Like other Bania communities, they are undergoing urbanization. Many rural Raniaur are village shopkeepers and money lenders. They have a statewide caste association, the Raniaur Mahasabha, which acts both as an instrument of social control as well as a communal welfare association.\n"}
{"id": "48742822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48742822", "title": "Santa Marian Kamalen", "text": "Santa Marian Kamalen\n\nSanta Marian Kamalen also known as Our Lady of Camarin and informally known as Maga Haga \"(English: Great Lady)\" is a title of the Blessed Virgin Mary associated with a carved molave wood and ivory image venerated by the Roman Catholic faithful in Guam as their Patroness.\n\nThe image is known to have escaped the Japanese war on bombing of Guam on 8 December 1941, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. It is permanently enshrined at the Minor Basilica of the Most Sweet Name of Mary.\n\nPious legends claim that the image was brought by Spaniards through the Galleon ship \"Nuestra Señora del Pilar de Zaragoza y Santiago\" which was shipwrecked on 2 June 1690 at the Cocos island of Guam. The image is thought to have been enshrined on the ship by its sailors. \n\nOne account of its discovery holds that a fisherman found the statue along the shore of Merizo. He saw the image accompanied by crabs with votive candles, later interpreted as miraculous by the natives in the area. The image later gained the title of \"Kamalen\", literally \"Barracks\" due to the image being stored in a nearby infantry compound after it was found by the fisherman.\n\nThe image measures approximately 28 inches and weighs 48 pounds. The image is composed of polychromed Molave wood and ivory head and hands and wears a wig of human hair. Caretakers of the image rescued the statue on 8 December 1941 at the beginning of the Second World War, when the image was hidden for safekeeping. The image was enshrined at the cathedral again on 8 December 1945, on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception.\n\nIn 1948, the image was brought to the Philippines for professionally restoration by renowned Filipino Santero artist Máximo Vicente, who also restored the Black Nazarene of Quiapo.\n\nPopular legends also recount the image surviving the 1902 earthquake in Guam, which destroyed the shrine and many statues within the church but left the image intact.\n\nThe image was stolen on three separate occasions: 19 May 1968, 3 May 1971 and 28 December 1992; it was always returned out of piety. A replica is enshrined for public veneration at the main church, while the original ivory statue is enshrined above the high altar.\n\nToday, the image is suspended above the high altar with no possibility of reaching it from the sides. A digital alarm is installed on its pedestal which is accompanied by the main caretaker of the image. Behind its niche is three panels of locked doors, accessible only by a staircase through the old rectory entrance.\n\nPope John Paul II mentioned the image on 22 February 1981 during his Apostolic visit. A replica image was installed at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington D.C. on 17 September 2006.\n"}
{"id": "53381517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53381517", "title": "Sótanos del Cardenal Cisneros", "text": "Sótanos del Cardenal Cisneros\n\nThe Sótanos del Cardenal Cisneros are basements and a Moorish house located in Toledo, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. This space houses the archaeological vestiges of a primitive Islamic house from the Caliphate period, of which there remain a courtyard and a hall, as well as the remains of the architectural decoration of the same, consisting of two horseshoe arches, one of them twinned. This primitive house is built on the natural geological terrain, which in this area presents a sharp slope in a southerly direction, being filled with debris and remains belonging to earlier phases of Roman and Visigothic times, some of whose construction materials were reused in the new Islamic construction.\n\nIt would highlight the finding of the figurative parietal decoration documented in the twin arch, in whose jambs two hands of hamsa were arranged, one of which is surrounded by three birds of a stylized figure. Both motifs are typical in Islamic art, and have a meaning of protection and rejection of evil influences, specifically against the evil eye (Hamsa's hand) and perhaps funerary (in the case of birds). Both are decorative motifs of pre-Islamic origin that must have a strong popular roots and are to a certain extent tolerated by the official Islamic doctrine, although as in the case of birds they come from a hadith or unofficial oral tradition attributed to Muhammad, In which they are identified as the transmitters of the souls of the good believers in their journey to Paradise.\n"}
{"id": "22115094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22115094", "title": "Tahōtō", "text": "Tahōtō\n\nA is a form of Japanese pagoda found primarily at Esoteric Shingon and Tendai school Buddhist temples. It is unique among pagodas because it has an even number of stories (two). (The second story has a balustrade and seems habitable, but is nonetheless inaccessible and offers no usable space.) Its name alludes to Tahō Nyorai, who appears seated in a many-jewelled pagoda in the eleventh chapter of the Lotus Sutra. With square lower and cylindrical upper parts, a mokoshi 'skirt roof', a pyramidal roof, and a finial, the \"tahōtō\" or the larger \"daitō\" was one of the seven halls of a Shingon temple. After the Heian period the construction of pagodas in general declined, and new \"tahōtō\" became rare. Six examples, of which that at Ishiyama-dera (1194) is the earliest, have been designated National Treasures.\nThere are no examples in China, whether architectural or pictoral, of anything that resembles the \"tahōtō\", although there is a Song dynasty textual reference to a \"'tahōtō\" with an encircling chamber'.\n\nThe or treasure pagoda is the ancestor of the \"tahōtō\" and dates to the introduction to Japan of Shingon and Tendai Buddhism in the ninth century. No wooden \"hōtō\" has survived, albeit modern copies do exist, and stone, bronze, or iron specimen are always miniatures comprising a foundation stone, barrel-shaped body, pyramid roof, and a finial.\n\nWhile the \"tahōtō\" is 3x3 ken (bays), a larger 5x5 ken version exists, known as or 'large pagoda'. \nThis is the only type of \"tahōtō\" to retain the original structure with a row of pillars or a wall separating the corridor (\"hisashi\") from the core of the structure, abolished in smaller pagodas. \"Daitō\" used to be common but, of all those ever built, only a few are still extant. One is at Wakayama prefecture's Negoro-ji, another at Kongōbu-ji, again in Wakayama, another at Kirihata-dera, Tokushima prefecture, another at Narita-san in Chiba. (See the respective list entries.) Kūkai himself, founder of the Shingon school, built the celebrated \"daitō\" for Kongōbu-ji on Kōyasan; almost fifty metres high, chronicles relate that 'the mightiness of its single storey outdoes that of multi-storeyed pagodas'. The specimen found at Negoro-ji (see photo above) is 30.85 meters tall and a National Treasure.\n\nJapanese pagodas have an odd number of stories. While the \"tahōto\" may appear to be twin-storied, complete with balustrade, the upper part is inaccessible with no usable space. The lower roof, known as a \"mokoshi\", provides shelter and the appearance of an additional storey.\n\nRaised over the , the ground floor has a square plan, 3x3 \"ken\" across, with a circular core. Inside, a room is marked out by the , a reference to the Four Heavenly Kings. The main objects of worship are often enshrined within.\n\nAbove is a second 'tortoise mound', in a residual reference to the stupa. Since exposed plaster weathers rapidly, a natural solution was to provide it with a roof, the mokoshi. Above again is a short, cylindrical section and a pyramidal roof, supported on four-stepped brackets.\n\nLike all Japanese pagodas, the \"tahōtō\" is topped by a vertical shaft known as the . This comprises the base or 'dew basin'; an inverted bowl with attached lotus petals; nine rings; 'water flame'; and jewel. The finial's division in sections has a symbolic meaning and its structure as a whole itself represents a pagoda.\n\nA number of smaller versions of the \"tahōtō\" are known, of stone, bronze, iron, or wood, and similar to the \"hōtō\".\n\nA number of mandala show the Iron Stupa in southern India, where the patriarch Nāgārjuna received the Esoteric scriptures, as a single-storey pagoda with a cylindrical body, a pyramidal roof, and a spire. The forms used in the \"tahōtō\", namely the square, circle, triangle, semi-circle, and circle, may represent the Five Elements or the Five Virtues. The egg-shaped stupa mound or aṇḍa may represent Mount Sumeru, with the finial as the axis of the world; or, by a folk interpretation, the square base may represents a folded robe, the dome an overturned begging bowl, and the spire a walking staff. The \"tahōtō\" served not as a reliquary tower but often as an icon hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "856482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856482", "title": "The Modern Parents", "text": "The Modern Parents\n\nThe Modern Parents is a comic strip from the British comic \"Viz\" created by John Fardell who both writes and illustrates it. One of the most enduring and frequent strips in \"Viz\", having appeared regularly since the early 1990s, it is a parody of 'ethically aware' middle-class parents and the new age movement. Similarly to Fardell's other creation, The Critics, it satirises liberal snobbery. On one occasion, the Modern Parents and the Critics appeared in the same strip, each pair mistakenly attending the event intended for the other, though the two strips are generally slightly different in tone and style. \n\n\"The Social Affairs Unit's Reverend Peter Mullen has described their parenting style as:\n\n\"These creepy, empty-headed trendies have a son who is not merely allowed to do exactly as he likes but in a perfect state of satanic permissiveness is compelled to do as he likes. This is child-abuse of the worst sort. No landmarks. No boundaries. Ultimately, therefore, no understanding of good and bad.\" \n\nMalcolm and Cressida Wright-Pratt are parents whose obsession with ethical and environmental awareness often works against their basic role as parents to Tarquin and Guinevere. The Modern Parents do not believe in childhood activities such as fairgrounds, fast food restaurants, games, competitions and sports, toys, normal holidays or mainstream school and impose their moral positions on their children and the children of others. They take the moral high-ground because of their ideologies and expect everyone to appreciate their actions, however the two are just as hypocritical as much as they are pretentious (as displayed in one strip when they began a campaign against slavery but then employed unpaid interns to do the work for them).\n\nIn the March 2008 issue of Viz they visit Uncle Eddie for his daughter Amy's second birthday party and give their niece an ethical gift, which seems (to Eddie) to be a \"donation to an Oxfam-funded goat thingy for a starving African family\", but turns out to be a donation to their own \"Malcolm and Cressida Ethical Living Awareness Project\". Tarquin and Guinevere give her a teddy bear to the dismay of Malcolm and Cressida, who declare it to be \"an anthropomorphisation of wild animals\", \"an attempt to brainwash Amy into keeping pets\" and \"offensive and oppressive to the Sudanese people\" (referring to the contemporary Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case). They then assume Amy will \"at least appreciate our effort to reduce the bear's carbon footprint by putting it in the recycle bin\" and snatch it from her.\n\nBoth have large upturned noses. Cressida has her hair pulled back in a tight pony-tail and Malcolm has a scruffy beard and incredibly large teeth. Malcolm and Cressida were not originally married as they believed it to be an outmoded and sexist institution that enslaved women. However, they did eventually marry in order to get their wedding gifts. They had their own pagan ceremony and wrote their own vows (\"Do you, Cressida, take Malcolm to be your husband so long as you find acceptable and convenient?\")\n\nCressida delights in pointing out that, as a woman, she is an oppressed minority while Malcolm frequently claims he has \"Sensitive Persons Syndrome\". A committed environmentalist, he insists he supports public transport, but cannot use it himself because his Syndrome prevents him from getting on a bus or train and his Volvo \"is Scandinavian, so it must be eco-friendly\". The pair often identify themselves with ethnic minorities, claiming to have some Celtic heritage or that they were Native Americans in a previous life.\n\nMalcolm and Cressida believe that all humans are equal even to the extent that there is no such thing as immaturity. Tarquin is often greeted by the sight of his parents openly having sexual intercourse (having also previously announced this intention to their kids). Each story finds them forcing their children into some new ethically aware activity that ostensibly encourages a policy of togetherness but ends up with Tarquin and Guinevere often escaping to their much more realist Uncle Eddie (Cressida's brother) who supplies them with ice creams and trips to theme parks.\n\nMalcolm has a brother, Oswald, married to Lana (real name Linda), and a neurotic spinster sister, Joy. Oswald and Lana have an extremely snobbish son, Hector James. The family are Conservative and rich, damning the British worker and the foreigner with equal vigour. Malcolm also used to be a keen Young Conservative before meeting Cressida while canvassing. Lured by Cressida into a new world of progressive ideological debate and sex, Malcolm abandoned his dreams of becoming a future Tory Prime Minister and grew a beard. One episode shows Malcolm's lock-up garage where he keeps a motorbike and a topless women calendar on the wall. He goes for a ride on the bike but is injured by Cressida, who does not know it is him and throws a protest sign at the front wheel, throwing him off. Unconscious, he imagines an alternative reality in which he has an attractive wife and is Prime Minister. Another day Cressida takes two ethically-aware friends for a tour of the house and visits Malcolm's computer den. He is caught in the den playing pornographic computer games such as \"Deth Fuck\" and \"Karate Whores Must Die\" whilst leering and salivating wildly.\n\nCressida's family have made few appearances: her mother and father seem to be separated and her mother appears to drink. When Malcolm left her and Tarquin, Cressida wondered what she was going to do for money until Tarquin pointed out that it was always her father who sent her monthly cheques. However her father had taken a new mistress: since this meant he had no money to give to his daughter, Cressida experimented with prostitution.\n\nAn early Viz character, called Mike Smitt, looks similar to the original form of Malcolm. This character is referred to as a patronising git, as all he does is talk to people as if they are stupid, or point out to the whole street that a girl on crutches is disabled and unable to speak up for herself.\n\nTarquin is the elder child, aged about twelve, often the voice of common sense, a very effective foil to Malcolm & Cressida due to his desire for normality or to make money. His diplomatic ability is a means of resistance to parental authority diametrically opposed to their schemes: he is calculating and methodical in his manipulation of Malcolm & Cressida. He has a rational, scientific worldview that rejects vague ideas about spirituality and seems grounded in evidence and deductive reasoning. As a result, he is very sceptical about ideas such as crystal healing or rebirthing, questioning their rational basis, even asking a practitioner of \"Wan-Ki\": \"Where did you get your diploma, University of Mumbo-Jumbo?\" When Malcolm and Cressida take him to a \"Whole Self Centre\", claiming that he suffers from an \"erotic shame complex\", Tarquin talks of a workshop about discovering the inner child. He gets the attendees to undress and touch each other, dance, and feel each other's bodies while several smartly dressed businessmen queue and pay to watch through the windows. It's a front for a sleazy peep show.\n\nDespite his female name, Guinevere is a boy. Wanting to avoid gender stereotyping, Malcolm and Cressida occasionally try to make one or both of their sons wear girls' clothes or take \"female\" roles in some psychobabble ceremony. Guinevere was born during the course of the comic strip and after growing to his current age of about five or six, stopped there. Tarquin appeared to get older in the early years of \"Modern Parents\" and in one episode turned thirteen. Guinevere, whose name is usually just shortened to \"Guin\" by his brother, is largely a passive character, easily upset, his big brother often coming to his rescue. Guinevere's first word was football although Malcolm and Cressida were keen for it to be dolphin.\n\nMalcolm and Cressida have many friends, notably Ashley and Cordelia in the Ethically Aware Parents Support Group, who, like them, are middle-class, politically correct and often into various causes. Most of them have children who, without exception, have the same despairing and uncooperative attitude towards their parents as Tarquin and Guinevere. Cressida's brother, Edward - more commonly known as simply Uncle Eddie - acts as a counter-weight to his sister and brother-in-law and treats his two nephews, Tarquin and Guinevere, like normal boys. 'Guest' characters include Dr Earnest Rabbitt (who is firmly opposed to killing animals) and Professor Ruth Lesscow (an extreme women's rights activist). In earlier episodes of the strip, Tarquin had a friend called Ian, of whom his parents clearly disapproved, and once a girlfriend called Dawn, of whom Malcolm and Cressida thought Tarquin was controlling and possessive.\n"}
{"id": "7701622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7701622", "title": "To Kill the Child/Leaving Beirut", "text": "To Kill the Child/Leaving Beirut\n\n\"To Kill the Child\"/\"Leaving Beirut\" is a 2004 digital download and a Japan-only CD single written and performed by Roger Waters.\n\nThe first song of the single runs at 3 minutes and 31 seconds. The lyrics open with the image of a child sleeping \"in the glow of [a] Donald Duck light\", a reference to Waters' prior song \"The Tide Is Turning.\" Waters goes on to ask why a culture whose primary concerns are luxury, consumption and petty values would \"kill the child\". The song ends with a plea to protect children from the crusade-waging \"bigots and bully boys / Slugging it out in the yard.\"\n\nThe second track of the single runs at 12 minutes and 29 seconds. Most of the song's lyrics are derived from a short story about Waters' hitchhiking excursion in Lebanon when he was a teenager. These passages, intoned in monologue over a descending synthesizer ostinato, are interspersed with more recently penned refrains outlining Waters' reaction to United States and United Kingdom involvement in the Iraq War. Waters performed the song at every show on his The Dark Side of the Moon Live tour, replacing the spoken-word recitation with a visual backdrop of the story as a graphic novel.\n\nWaters' condemnation of George W. Bush (at one point, the song's lyrics claim \"that Texas education must have fucked [him] up\") received negative reactions from audience members during his show at New Jersey's PNC Bank Arts Center on 6 September 2006, at Madison Square Garden in New York City on 12 September 2006 and in Tampa, Florida on 19 May 2007; however, audience reactions during the 5 October 2006 performance at the Hollywood Bowl were overwhelmingly positive, with many patrons rising to their feet and cheering. The song also received a positive reaction during its American performances at the Boston, Massachusetts and Camden, New Jersey Tweeter Centers, in New York on 30 May 2007, as well as in other cities worldwide, particularly Mumbai and Dubai. Ironically, during his first show in Dallas, Texas on 2 May 2008, the line referring to George Bush and the Texas education was met with uproarious applause. His last show on the American leg of the tour, in Houston on the 4th, was met with a fairly mixed reaction.\n\nWhile many fans have embraced the song's lyrical content, which is sympathetic towards the people of Lebanon, some have objected to Waters' political stance. In 2006, Waters performed a concert in Neve Shalom, Israel in front of a crowd of 50,000. During the concert, which included \"Leaving Beirut\" in the set-list, Waters expressed his belief that Israel had to \"tear down the walls\" of the Israeli West Bank barrier (pictured in the single's cover art) to make peace with its neighbours. The morning after Waters' concert in Neve Shalom, editorial writer Ben Dror Yemini wrote in the Israel newspaper \"Maariv\":\n\nThe song has also received some criticism for its musical content and style; one review of the 10 October show at the Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View, California claimed that the song \"floundered\" musically despite being lyrically \"one of Waters' best post-Floyd works.\"\n"}
{"id": "1019890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019890", "title": "Tom Laughlin", "text": "Tom Laughlin\n\nThomas Robert Laughlin Jr. (August 10, 1931 – December 12, 2013), known as Tom Laughlin, was an American actor, director, screenwriter, author, educator, and activist.\n\nLaughlin was best known for his series of \"Billy Jack\" films. He was married to actress Delores Taylor from 1954 until his death. Taylor co-produced and acted in all four \"Billy Jack\" films. His unique promotion of \"The Trial of Billy Jack\" (TV trailers during national news and an \"opening day\" nationwide release) was a major influence on the way films are marketed.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Laughlin put his film career on hiatus to start a Montessori preschool in Santa Monica, California; it became the largest school of its kind in the United States. In his later years, he sought the office of President of the United States in 1992, 2004, and 2008. He was involved in psychology and domestic abuse counseling, writing several books on Jungian psychology and developing theories on the causes of cancer.\n\nLaughlin was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the son of Margaret and Thomas Laughlin. He attended Washington High School, where he was involved in an athletics controversy that made headlines throughout the city, caused by Laughlin being forced to attend another school for a brief period, making him ineligible to play football at his former school on his return.\n\nLaughlin attended the University of Wisconsin, before transferring to Marquette University; he played football at both. He played safety and halfback at Marquette.\n\nLaughlin decided to become an actor after seeing a production of \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". According to a 1956 newspaper interview, he became involved in the drama program at Marquette after being encouraged by a university professor, Father John J. Walsh.\n\nWhile a student he formed a stock group and directed and starred in a production of Arthur Miller's \"All My Sons\". He finally transferred to the University of South Dakota, where he majored in radio acting, directing and producing. He met his future wife Delores Taylor in South Dakota.\n\nLaughlin wrote the original screenplay for the film \"Billy Jack\" in 1954, after witnessing the treatment of Native Americans in his wife's hometown, Winner, South Dakota. The two wed on October 15, 1954.\n\nHe began his screen-acting career in the 1955 television series \"Climax!\". From there he went on to appear in several feature films including: \"These Wilder Years,\" \"Lafayette Escadrille\", \"Tea and Sympathy\" and \"South Pacific\".\n\nHe appeared in several episodes of various television series throughout the late 1950s. In 1958, Mr. Laughlin appeared in a small but memorable role in South Pacific, the movie version of the James Michener book and Rodgers and Hammerstein musical as a Navy pilot, Lt. Buzz Adams. In 1959, he was cast as young Tom Fowler in the episode \"The Fight Back\" of the NBC western series, \"Riverboat\". In the story line, Fowler has made himself the boss of Hampton, a corrupt river town near Vicksburg, Mississippi. He blocks farmers from shipping their crops to market. In a dispute over a wedding held on the river vessel, the \"Enterprise\", a lynch mob led by Fowler comes after Captain Grey Holden (series star Darren McGavin). Also appearing in this episode are John Ireland as Chris Slade and Karl Swenson as Ansel Torgin.\n\nIn 1959, Laughlin appeared in the film \"Gidget\" as \"Lover Boy\". However, he failed to earn a living in the early years, having told \"People\" magazine in 1975, \"We were living on $5 a week and eating Spam. I stole Christmas cards from a church so I could write home saying how well we were, but then I couldn't afford the stamps.\"\n\nLaughlin's first starring role was in Robert Altman's 1957 film \"The Delinquents\", in which he played Scotty White, a teenager who gets mixed up with a gang when he is told he can no longer see his girlfriend. Despite the film's low budget, it became a cult film, with Alfred Hitchcock reportedly among its fans. However, Laughlin and Altman did not get along well, having sharply differing views on acting; Altman later describing Laughlin as \"an unbelievable pain in the ass.\"\n\nLaughlin made his directorial debut later that year with \"The Proper Time\", though the film wasn't released until 1960. The film was a romantic drama set on the campus of UCLA. Laughlin shot the film on the campus in six days working with a $20,000 budget.\n\nLaughlin wrote, directed, and starred in \"The Young Sinner\". Originally filmed in 1960, and shot in Milwaukee over a period of 14 days, it is the story of a star high school athlete who falls deeper and deeper into trouble after being caught in bed with his girlfriend. The film was intended to be the first of a trilogy entitled \"We Are All Christ\". It premiered in 1963 under the original title \"Among the Thorns\", which was changed to \"The Young Sinner\" upon its 1965 re-release. In 1960, Laughlin planned to make a film, \"Poison in Our Land\", based on the true story of a Texas couple affected by atomic radiation, but the project was never realized.\n\nIn 1959, Laughlin and his wife founded a Montessori preschool in Santa Monica, California. By 1961, Laughlin had left the film business to devote all of his time to the school, which by 1964 had become the largest school of its kind in the United States. It was profiled by \"Time\" magazine in July of that year. However, by 1965, the school had gone bankrupt. One of his students was Christian Brando, son of Laughlin's friend, Marlon Brando.\n\nIn 1965, Laughlin told the \"Milwaukee Sentinel\" that he planned to make a film on the life of a noted Catholic priest, Father William DuBay. However, the picture did not get past the planning stages. Two years later, in 1967, he wrote, directed (as T. C. Frank) and starred in the motorcycle-gang exploitation film \"The Born Losers\". This was the first picture in which the character of Billy Jack appeared. It was a box-office hit.\n\nAfter \"The Born Losers,\" Laughlin was set to begin a film project with backing from such figures as Marlon Brando, Jack Lemmon, Candice Bergen, and director Robert Wise. The movie was to be a documentary on the issues facing African Americans in the 1960s and would have focused greatly on the life of Martin Luther King, Jr. followed by a discussion of race. However, the film was never made.\n\nHe followed this up with the sequel to \"The Born Losers,\" \"Billy Jack,\" in 1971. American International Pictures initially agreed to distribute the picture but after viewing it the studio refused to release the film unless many of the political references – as well as frontal nudity – were cut. This led the Laughlins to withhold the sound reels of the movie, which in effect made it a silent film. Eventually, Laughlin made a distribution deal with Warner Bros. but he disapproved of the studio's marketing of the film, sued Warners, and re-released the picture himself. The movie's re-release was successful but controversial. Roger Ebert, in his review of the film, wrote, \"Billy Jack seems to be saying that a gun is better than a constitution in the enforcement of justice. Is democracy totally obsolete, then? Is our only hope that the good fascists defeat the bad fascists?\"\n\nHowever, the picture was embraced by much of America's youth, leading Laughlin to claim in 1975 that \"The youth of this country have only two heroes, Ralph Nader and Billy Jack.\" When adjusted for inflation, it is, as of 2007, the highest-grossing independent film of all time. The film was among the first to introduce martial arts, especially hapkido to American audiences and contained elements of Jungian psychology, and fictional depictions of American Indian beliefs, depicting a tribe that does not exist, the \"Nishnobie.\" As part of the film's promotion, Bong Soo Han, who was in charge of the martial arts choreography for the film, toured the United States giving hapkido demonstrations.\n\nThe second sequel, \"The Trial of Billy Jack\", released in late 1974, was a huge box office hit, while not registering as quite as big a critical success. It is notable for its casting of Native American icons such as Sacheen Littlefeather and Rolling Thunder, as well as its strong criticism of the Kent State shootings. However, Laughlin's unique promotion of the film was its real legacy. Unlike most films of the era which opened in only a few cities before gradually spreading across the country, \"The Trial of Billy Jack\" opened in cities nationwide on the same day and commercials were broadcast for it during the national news. This promotion forever changed the way films are marketed and has been called \"the first blockbuster.\"\n\nIn 1975, Laughlin released \"The Master Gunfighter\", a western set in the 1840s, detailing the plight of the Chumash people. Laughlin grew a full beard for the film and his character fought with both a 12-shot revolver and a samurai sword. Although it did reasonably well at the box office, critics were not pleased with the film.\n\nHe returned to the Billy Jack franchise in 1977. However, the fourth entry in the series, \"Billy Jack Goes to Washington\" was a failure because of distribution problems, and it proved to be Laughlin's final film . Laughlin blamed individuals within the United States government for the failure of the picture, telling CNN's \"Showbiz Tonight\" in 2005:At a private screening, Senator Vance Hartke [Note: Hartke was not re-elected in 1976] got up, because it was about how the Senate was bought out by the nuclear industry. He got up and charged me. Walter Cronkite's daughter was there, [and] Lucille Ball. And he said, 'You'll never get this released. This house you have, everything will be destroyed.' \"\n\nAt the time of the picture's release, Laughlin's company, Billy Jack Enterprises, had plans for a new Montessori school funded by his own foundation, a record label, an investigative magazine, books, a distribution company and more message-laden movies, including a special subsidiary to produce films for children. He told \"People\" magazine at the time, \"Three years from today, we'll be the new United Artists. Either that, or we'll be out on our butt on the street.\" In 1976, Laughlin announced that he was more than $7 million in debt and blamed the financial troubles on unethical behavior by Warner Bros. Pictures, which he said had illegally sold the television rights to his films.\n\nIn 1984, he purchased a series of twelve advertisements in \"Variety\" condemning various aspects of the film industry and its treatment of independent filmmakers. He created a blueprint for taking control of the home video distribution industry as a way for independent films to be seen. This plan was also a failure. In 1985, he began production of a fifth Billy Jack film, \"The Return of Billy Jack\", which featured the title character fighting child pornographers in New York City. However, he suffered a concussion and neck injury during filming, which led to the production being suspended. During this hiatus, funding for the picture ran out and production was never resumed. In 2009, a few scenes from the unfinished film were released on Laughlin's website. A notable incident occurred while he was filming in New York City, when he broke up a street fight on Manhattan's West Side, threatening to rip a man's arm off. He garnered notoriety at this time for making a citizen's arrest of a man after an argument over Laughlin's driving.\n\nLaughlin had sought funding to finish the fifth Billy Jack film since at least 1996, when he spoke about it during a lawsuit against a man who had (Laughlin claimed) illegally changed his name to \"Billy Jack\", and at one point Laughlin had plans to make a Billy Jack television series. In 2004, he announced that the film would be entitled \"Billy Jack's Crusade to End the War in Iraq and Restore America to Its Moral Purpose\"; this was shortened to \"Billy Jack's Moral Revolution\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2008, the film's title was changed to \"Billy Jack for President\". It was re-titled \"Billy Jack and Jean\". Laughlin claimed it would be a \"new genre of film\" and a great deal of social commentary on politics, religion, and psychology will be discussed, and a debate will take place between Billy Jack and President George W. Bush via computer manipulation of archived speeches.\n\nIn 2009, Laughlin released plot details of this film on a video on his website. The video contained several scenes from the film.\n\nIn 2010, Frank, Chris, and Theresa Laughlin co-founded Billy Jack Rights, LLC, which manages the rights to all of Tom Laughlin's films, including the \"Billy Jack\" franchise.\n\nIn his later years, Laughlin turned his attention to politics. In 1992, as a protest he sought the Democratic Party nomination for U.S. President. He told the \"Milwaukee Sentinel\", \"I am the least qualified person I know to be President, except George Bush.\"\n\nHe appeared on the primary ballots in New Hampshire and Louisiana. He campaigned on a platform of a tax cut for \"ordinary Americans\", term limits, an overhaul of public education, universal health care, and nuclear disarmament. While campaigning for the Iowa caucus, he said of fellow candidate and Iowan, U.S. Senator Tom Harkin: \"I think he's a sleazebag. I despise him.\"\n\nExcluded from debates by party officials who did not consider him a serious candidate, Laughlin received 1,986 votes in the New Hampshire primary. He blamed the results on lack of cooperation by the Democratic Party, which allowed him and other candidates only five minutes to speak at the state's convention while giving the five front-runners 20 minutes each. He participated in the Independent presidential candidates Debate on March 25, 1992, along with former U.S. Senator Eugene J. McCarthy and others who had been excluded from the major debates. However, he was seen by much of the press as a \"fringe candidate.\"\n\nLaughlin later protested at being excluded from the primary ballot in his home state of Wisconsin at the same time that David Duke, the former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, was included. After dropping out of the race, he worked as an advisor to the campaign of Ross Perot.\n\nHe ran for president again in 2004, this time as a Republican. Campaigning as an opponent of the Iraq War, he received 154 votes in the New Hampshire primary against U.S. President George W. Bush. He again was not allowed to participate in the debates. He ran again for President in 2008 as a Democrat, getting 47 votes in the New Hampshire primary.\n\nLaughlin was an outspoken critic of the Iraq War and President George W. Bush. His website presented several writings calling the Iraq conflict worse than the Vietnam War, in addition to pieces on what he called \"realistic exit strategies.\" He devoted several pages of the Billy Jack website to reasons that he feels justify an impeachment of George W. Bush and repeatedly stated the need for a viable, mainstream third political party. In addition, he criticized what he called the \"Christian right\", which he called \"false Evangelicals\", \"false prophets\", and the \"Christo-fascist movement.\" He released several videos and writings during the 2008 election.\n\nAlthough not a professionally trained psychologist, Laughlin had an interest in psychology, having studied the subject independently. A 1975 profile of Laughlin in \"People\" magazine mentioned his deep interest in psychology and mentioned that he had a personal \"dream secretary\" to whom Laughlin told his recollections of his dreams. They were written down to be analyzed later.\n\nLaughlin lectured on Jungian psychology at universities and colleges throughout the United States since the 1970s, including Yale University and Stanford University\n\nIn 1995, because of his background in football and psychology, he was brought in to counsel University of Nebraska football player Lawrence Phillips after Phillips' suspension from the team. He said of Phillips at the time, \"He should not be rewarded by being allowed to play unless there is real substantive change. I don't mean surface change. But if he does change, then he's not only going to not batter this girl, he's not going to batter the girl he marries at 30 and 35. If he just pretends to change, of course he should not be allowed to play, but Lawrence has already been sanctioned in ways other batterers on this campus are not\".\n\nLaughlin wrote several books on psychology including \"The Psychology of Cancer\"; \"Jungian Psychology vol. 2: Jungian Theory and Therapy\", published in 1980; \"9 Indispendable Ingredients to Writing a Hit\" (1999), which details the psychology involved in the box office and hit filmmaking, and \"The Cancer Personality\" (1998), in which he posited his theories about cancer.\n\nOne of his concerns was the issue of domestic abuse. He became involved in this after witnessing a neighbor, a police officer, beating his wife. He blamed the murder of Nicole Brown Simpson on domestic abuse, saying:O.J. Simpson was my neighbor up the street on Rockingham. He lived at 300 Rockingham Drive, I lived at 100 Rockingham. I've known O.J. forever. This is one of the sickest, sorriest days in our culture, that he was [found] not guilty... I've told him since 1985 he'd end up in jail... Eight times [Nicole] cried out and eight times, because it was O.J. and it was woman-battering, it was dismissed. But now, with the trivialization, people are afraid to call because they don't trust that the system will help them. The fact that he was found not guilty is going to make that 10 times worse.\n\nLaughlin married Delores Taylor in 1954. They had three children: Frank, Teresa, and Christina. His daughter Teresa (known by the family as T.C.) is a fashion designer. He derived at least two of his pseudonyms from his children: Frank Laughlin, his son's name and the name he used to direct \"The Trial of Billy Jack\" and \"The Master Gunfighter\", and T.C. Frank, which stood for Teresa Christina Frank.\n\nIn 2001, it was announced that Laughlin was suffering from a cancer of the tongue that was inoperable. His website claimed the cancer was in remission. His book, \"The Psychology of Cancer\", was about faith, attitude and other factors that might affect cancer.\n\nOn November 20, 2007, he posted a video on YouTube explaining that poor health had caused him to leave his BillyJack.com website in a dormant state. The site was later revived. Laughlin suffered from Celiac disease, an auto-immune disorder, and suffered a series of strokes. In the video, he announced that he had his health issues under control, that he updated the website, and was planning a new Billy Jack film. However, that film was never made.\n\nLaughlin died of complications from pneumonia on December 12, 2013 at Los Robles Hospital and Medical Center in Thousand Oaks, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "92561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92561", "title": "Xmucane and Xpiacoc", "text": "Xmucane and Xpiacoc\n\nXmucane () and Xpiacoc (), alternatively Xumucane and Ixpiyacoc, are the names of the divine grandparents of Maya mythology of the K'iche' people and the daykeepers of the \"Popol Vuh\". They are considered to be the oldest of all the gods of the K'iche' pantheon and are identified by a number of names throughout the text, reflecting their multiple roles throughout the Mayan creation myth. They are usually mentioned together, although Xmucane seems to be alone during most of the interactions with the Maya Hero Twins, when she is referred to as simply \"grandmother\".\n\nThe pair were invoked during the creation of the world in which the Maya gods were attempting to create humanity. Xmucane and Xpiacoc ground the maize that was used in part of the failed attempt, although the beings created were described as being simply mannequins and not real people. These two are also invoked, often by other powerful deities, for their powers in divination and matchmaking.\n\nXmucane herself also plays an integral role in the development of the Maya Hero Twins. She was at first wary of them and their mother, Xquic, and ordered them out of her house when they were yet infants, but she would come to accept them almost as her own sons, raising and caring for them. Xmucane is considered by some to be the goddess associated with the waxing moon, contrasting to the hypothetical role of her daughter-in-law as the waning moon. \n"}
{"id": "47401672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47401672", "title": "Yazidis in Russia", "text": "Yazidis in Russia\n\nYazidis in Russia may refer to people born in or residing in the Russia of full or partial Yazidi origin.\n\nThere are about 60,586 Yazidis living in Russia, primarily in Moscow (10,000) and in other agglomerations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8618341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8618341", "title": "Yom-Tov Lipmann-Muhlhausen", "text": "Yom-Tov Lipmann-Muhlhausen\n\nYom-Tov Lipmann ben Solomon Muhlhausen (Hebrew: יום טוב ליפמן מילהאוזן) (Yom-Tov was his religious given name, Lipmann was his secular given name, one of the traditional Ashkenazic vernacular equivalents for Yom-Tov, while his last name represents a nickname indicating the origin of either him or his ancestors from the town of Mühlhausen, in Thuringia) was a controversialist, Talmudist, kabalist and philosopher of the 14th and 15th centuries (birth date unknown, died later than 1420). His religious and scholarly career and influence spanned the Jewish communities of Bohemia, Poland, Austria and various parts of Germany, and his dispute with the principles of Christianity left a lasting imprint on the relations between Christianity and Judaism.\n\nThere is no comprehensive account of his life and career, which must be reconstructed from fragmentary references. According to Stephan Bodecker, Bishop of Brandenburg, who wrote a refutation of Lipmann's \"Niẓẓaḥon,\" Lipmann lived at Cracow. But Naphtali Hirsch Treves, in the introduction to his \"Siddur,\" calls him \"Lipmann Mülhausen of Prague\", adding that he lived in the part of the town called \"Wyschigrod.\" Manuscript No. 223 in the Halberstam collection contains a document issued at Prague in 1413 and signed by Lipmann Mülhausen, as \"dayyan.\"\n\nIt is seen from his \"Niẓẓaḥon\" that, besides his rabbinical studies, Lipmann occupied himself with the study of the Bible, that he was acquainted with Karaite literature, that he read the New Testament, and that he knew Latin. His authority in rabbinical matters is shown by his circular to the rabbis warning them against the use of any \"shofar\" not made of a ram's horn (comp. S.D. Luzzatto in \"Kerem Ḥemed,\" vii.56). There are also \"responsa\" addressed to him by Jacob ben Moses Mölln (A. Neubauer, \"Cat. Bodl. Hebr. MSS.\" No. 907, 5), and Israel Isserlein mentions him (\"Terumat ha-Deshen,\" No. 24) as one of five scholars who met at Erfurt. On 16 August 1399, Lipmann and many other Jews were thrown into prison at the instigation of a converted Jew named Peter, who accused them of insulting Christianity in their works. Lipmann was ordered to justify himself, but while he brilliantly refuted Peter's accusations, as a result of the charges seventy-seven Jews were martyred on 22 August 1400, and three more, by fire, on 11 September 1400. Of the accused Lipmann alone escaped death.\n\nLipmann was the author of: \nIn this work the author frequently mentions a cabalistic work entitled \"Sefer ha-Eshkol\" and a commentary to the \"Sefer Yeẓirah\" \n\nThe Nizzahon was long inaccessible to Christian Hebraists, and a copy was only obtained in 1644 by a deceitful ruse, involving outright theft, by the professor of Hebrew at the University of Altdorf, , who learning that a rabbi in Schnaittach possessed a copy, obtained an interview with him for a debate, and when the rabbi took down his copy to consult, had it snatched from his hands, to be then copied and printed. It is this copy which forms the \"editio princeps\".\n\nLipmann's reputation is dependent, mainly, upon his \"Niẓẓaḥon\" (ספר ניצחון). The book aimed to deal with the acute problems of conversion to Christianity among German Jews. That a rabbi in the 15th century should occupy himself with the Latin language and the New Testament was certainly a rare thing. Lipmann was compelled to justify himself (§3) by referring to the saying of Rabbi Eliezer, \"Know what thou shalt answer to the heretic\" (\"Abot\" ii.14). The whole work consists of 354 paragraphs, the number of days in the lunar year, each paragraph, with the exception of the last eight, beginning with a passage of the Bible, upon which the author founds his argument. Thus his arguments rest upon 346 passages taken from all the books of the Old Testament. The last eight paragraphs contain his dispute with the convert Peter. In the introduction, Lipmann says that he divided the work into seven parts to represent the seven days of the week. The part for the first day contains the arguments against Christians; that for the second day those against the Karaite interpretation of the Bible; those for the remaining five days contain several interpretations of obscure Biblical passages that are likely to mislead students; the reasons for the commandments; arguments against atheists; arguments against the Karaites and their rejection of the Talmud; and an account of the sixteen things which comprehend the whole of Judaism and which, after being indicated in the Pentateuch, are repeated in the Prophets and Hagiographa.\n\nVery characteristic is Lipmann's refutation of the assumed miraculous birth of Jesus, as well as his demonstration of the falsity of the conclusions of the Christians who claim that the birth of Jesus was foretold by the Prophets. He constantly quotes Maimonides, Abraham ibn Ezra, Naḥmanides, Saadia, Rashi, Shemariah of Negropont, and other ancient scholars. Lipmann must have written his \"Sefer ha-Niẓẓaḥon\" before 1410, for he expressed a hope that the Messiah would arrive in that year (§335). It was first published by (Altdorf, 1644), who seized the manuscript from the rabbi of Schnaittach (Goldwurm 2001, p. 152). Johann Christoph Wagenseil published, at the end of his \"Sota\" (Altdorf-Nuremberg, 1674), corrections of Hackspan's edition under the title of \"Correctiones Lipmannianæ.\"\n\nLater, the \"Niẓẓaḥon\" was reprinted, with the addition of Ḳimḥi's \"Vikkuaḥ,\" in Amsterdam (1709 and 1711) and Königsberg (1847). Sebald Snelle published the Hebrew text with a Latin translation and refutation of the paragraph (§8) denying the miraculous birth of Jesus (Altdorf, 1643), and at various dates he published Latin translations of the paragraphs directed against Christianity. A Latin translation of the whole work, with the exception of the passages taken from the Pentateuch, was made by Johann Heinrich Blendinger (Altdorf, 1645). As will be readily understood, the work gave rise to many polemics and called forth replies from Christians. The first was Stephan Bodecker, Bishop of Brandenburg, a younger contemporary of Lipmann, who wrote a refutation of the \"Niẓẓaḥon\" (comp. Wolf, \"Bibl. Hebr.\" i.736). The following other refutations are published: Wilhelm Schickard, \"Triumphator Vapulans sive Refutatio,\" etc. (Tübingen, 1629); Stephen Gerlow, \"Disputatio Contra Lipmanni Nizzachon\" (Königsberg, 1647); Christian Schotan, \"Anti-Lipmanniana\" (Franeker, 1659), giving also the Hebrew text of the \"Niẓẓaḥon.\" Informally, \"Anti-Lipmanniana\" came to be used also as an overall term for the entire corpus of Christian writings debating with and seeking to refute Lipman's arguments.\n\n\n\n"}
