{"id": "29393874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29393874", "title": "1921 Persian coup d'état", "text": "1921 Persian coup d'état\n\n1921 Persian coup d'état, known in Iran as 3 Esfand coup d'état (), refers to several major events in Persia (Iran) in 1921, which eventually led to the establishment of the Pahlavi dynasty as the ruling house of the country in 1925.\n\nThe events began with a coup by the Persian Cossack Brigade headed by Reza Khan, and directed by the British, on 21 February 1921. With this coup Zia'eddin Tabatabaee took over power and became Prime Minister. The coup was largely bloodless and faced little resistance. With his expanded forces and the Cossack Brigade, Reza Khan launched successful military actions to eliminate separatist and dissident movements in Tabriz, Mashhad and the Janglis in Gilan. The campaign against Simko and the Kurds was less successful and lasted well into 1922, though eventually concluding with Persian success.\n\nIn late 1920, the Persian Soviet Socialist Republic in Rasht was preparing to march on Tehran with \"a guerrilla force of 1,500 Jangalis, Kurds, Armenians and Azerbaijanis\", reinforced by the Bolsheviks' Red Army. This fact, along with various other disorders, mutinies and unrest in the country created \"an acute political crisis in the capital.\"\n\nBy 1921, the ruling Qajar dynasty of Persia had become corrupt and inefficient. The oil-rich nation was somewhat reliant on the nations of Britain and Russia for military and economic support. Civil wars earlier in the decade had threatened the government, and the only regular military force at the time was the Cossack Brigade.\n\nThe Qajar shah in 1921 was Ahmad, who had been crowned at the age of eleven. He was considered to be a weak, incompetent ruler, especially after British, Russian and Ottoman occupations of Persia during World War I. In 1911, when the capital city, Tehran, had been seized by the Russians, armed Bakhtiaris tribesmen, rather than Iranian regular troops, expelled the invaders. This further diminished the government's reputation, rendering it almost powerless in time of war.\n\nBritain, which played a major role in Persia, was dismayed by the Qajar government's inability to rule efficiently. This inefficiency was the background of a power struggle between Britain and Russia, each nation hoping to control Persia.\n\nOn 14 January 1921, the British General Ironside chose to promote Reza Khan, who had been leading the Tabriz battalion, to lead the entire brigade. About a month later, under British direction, Reza Khan's 3,000-4,000 strong detachment of the Cossack Brigade reached Tehran.\n\nOn February 18, 1921, the Cossacks reached Tehran meeting little resistance. On early morning of February 21, they entered the city. Only several policemen, taken by surprise, are said to had been killed or wounded in the center of Tehran. Backed by his troops, Khan forced the government to dissolve and oversaw his own appointment as minister of war. Khan also ensured that Ahmad, still ruling as shah, appointed as prime minister Sayyed Ziaoddin Tabatabaee.\n\nOn February 26, the new government signed a treaty of friendship with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, formerly the Russian Empire. As a result of the treaty, the Soviet Union gave up some of its former Russian facilities in Iran, although the Soviet diplomats ensured that their nation was allowed to intervene with its military in Iran, as long as the intervention was \"self-defense\". The USSR also gave up any Russian-owned railroads and ports in Iran.\n\nPrior to the coup, Ahmad Qavam, governor of Khorasan, had asserted his loyalty to the Qajar regime. When he refused to recognize the government installed by Reza Khan, he was jailed in Tehran. During his imprisonment, Gavam nurtured a hatred of the man who had arrested him, Colonel Mohammad Taghi Pessian, now the gendarmerie chief.\n\nSayyed Ziaoddin Tabatabaee, who had been installed as prime minister, was removed from office on May 25, by Shah Ahmad's decree. Shortly afterward, Qavam was released from prison and given Tabatabaee's former post. Colonel Pessian refused to accept this betrayal of the coup's ideals of a democratic Iran and began to gather popular support and many tribes flocked to make up his formidable force.\n\nAfter Gavam was made prime minister, one of the coup leaders and now the gendarmerie chief Colonel Mohammad Taghi Pessian opposed the new order and erosion of the democratic principles for which he and many of his fellow Iranians had fought and so departed Tehran. Soon at the head of a rebel army, Pessian went to battle with the armies of several regional governors. However, the rebels were eventually defeated and Reza Khan ordered that Pessian be beheaded and that the head be returned to Tehran and put on display to prove that Pessian, now a national hero, was dead to quell further rebellions. The Kurds of Khorasan also revolted in the same year.\n\nThe campaign on the Republic of Gilan was taken in early July 1921, by the main Cossack force, led by Vsevolod Starosselsky. Following a gendarme operation, led by Habibollah Khan (Shiabani), they cleared up Mazandaran and moved into Gilan. On August 20, ahead of the arrival of the Cossacks, the insurgents pulled out of Rasht, retreating towards Enzeli. The Cossacks entered Rasht on August 24. Though further pursuit after the revolutionaries turned successful at Khomam and Pirbazar, they have become heavily assaulted later on by the Soviet fleet, which bombed them by heavy artillery fire. First, it had been believed that the entire force of 700 men, led by Reza Khan, became annihilated in this event, though later the actual casualty rate was determined to be about 10%, with the rest of them scattering upon the bombardment. As a result, Starosselski ordered evacuation of Rasht.\n\nThe Soviet Republic of Gilan officially came to an end in September 1921. Mirza and his German friend Gauook (Hooshang) were left alone in the Khalkhal Mountains, and died of frostbite.\n\nIn the aftermath of 1921 events, relations of Persian government with the Sheikhdom of Mohammerah had also become strained. In 1924, Sheikh Khazal rebellion broke out in Khuzestan, being the first modern Arab nationalist uprising led by the Sheikh of Mohammerah Khaz'al al-Ka'bi. The rebellion was quickly and effectively suppressed with minimal casualties.\n\nRezā Khan was placed on the throne by constitutional assembly in 1925, and many of those involved in the coup were either killed or put in prison. One General, Sepahbod Amir Ahmadi, tried to stand up against the establishment of a new monarchy, but on a visit to his now imprisoned brother-in-law, General Heydargholi Pessian, who had been one of the leaders of the coup that defeated the Qajar dynasty, Amir Ahmadi confessed that his efforts to prevent Reza Khan being made Shah and the monarchy reinstated were being thwarted by the British. Reza Khan was finally declared Shah, taking the surname Pahlavi and thus founding the Pahlavi dynasty. The Pahlavis ruled in Iran until the revolution of 1979, when the government was toppled and replaced with that of the Islamic Republic of Iran, headed by Ruhollah Khomeini. The day after the Shah left Iran, the revolutionary leaders declared Colonel Mohammad Taghi Pessian the first Martyr of the Revolution although Pessian was a Secularist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "437804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437804", "title": "2003 State of the Union Address", "text": "2003 State of the Union Address\n\nThe 2003 State of the Union Address was a speech delivered by U.S. President George W. Bush, the 43rd United States President, on Tuesday, January 28, 2003. It outlined justifications for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. It began his discussion of the \"war on terror\" by asserting, as he had before September 11, 2001, that \"the gravest danger facing America and the world, is outlaw regimes that seek and possess nuclear, chemical and biological weapons.\"\n\nSaddam Hussein was the worst, and \"a brutal dictator, with a history of reckless aggression, with ties to terrorism, with great potential wealth, will not be permitted to dominate a vital region and threaten the United States.\" In this context, Bush also said, \"The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa,\" a line which became a source of contention in the later Plame affair. The domestic brutality of Hussein and the benefits of liberty and freedom for the Iraqi people were briefly noted near the end of the speech. He began with, \"In all these days of promise and days of reckoning, we can be confident. In a whirlwind of change and hope and peril, our faith is sure, our resolve is firm, and our union is strong.\" \nIn the middle of the speech, he said, \"In Afghanistan, we helped liberate an oppressed people. And we will continue helping them secure their country, rebuild their society, and educate all their children — boys and girls.\"\nHe ended with, \"Americans are a free people, who know that freedom is the right of every person and the future of every nation. The liberty we prize is not America's gift to the world, it is God's gift to humanity.\" He spoke to the 108th United States Congress.\n\nJust before the President addressed Iraq in the speech, he spent five paragraphs addressing his initiative to fight AIDS in Africa.\n\nThe Democratic response was given by then Washington Governor Gary Locke, who was appointed to be United States Ambassador to China in 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45140742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45140742", "title": "2012 CrossFit Games", "text": "2012 CrossFit Games\n\nThe 2012 CrossFit Games were held on July 11–15, 2012, at the Home Depot Center in Carson, California, with some events taking place at Camp Pendleton. The men's competition was won by Rich Froning Jr., the women's by Annie Thorisdottir, and the Affiliate Cup by Hacks Pack UTE. Both Froning and Thorisdottir were repeat champions from the previous year.\n"}
{"id": "42796381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42796381", "title": "2014 Speedway European Championship qualification", "text": "2014 Speedway European Championship qualification\n\nThe first semifinal of the 2014 Speedway European Championship qualification took place in Daugavpils, Latvia, on 17 May 2014, as a replacement for a previously planned event in Rivne, Ukraine.\n\n\n\n\nThe final order for placings 4–8 was decided by the jury, after heavy rain forced the cancellation of the run-off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57087516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57087516", "title": "2018 American salmonella outbreak", "text": "2018 American salmonella outbreak\n\nThe 2018 American salmonella outbreak was an American disaster in which over 250 people were sickened by chicken salad contaminated with salmonella. Other outbreaks were confirmed with turkey identified as the cause.\n\nThe chicken salad was made by an Iowa-based food processing company Triple T Specialty Meats and distributed in Fareway supermarket. One person in Iowa died, and more than 90 others were hospitalized. At least 48 lawsuits have been filed against Triple-T and Fareway from outbreak victims.\n\nIt was reported by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention that since last November 164 people had fallen ill in 35 states due to raw turkey. No products were recalled, and the CDC issued a reminder for individuals to properly cook and handle turkey.\n"}
{"id": "59327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59327", "title": "489 BC", "text": "489 BC\n\nYear 489 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iullus and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 265 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 489 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "1612435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612435", "title": "Ann Arbor Film Festival", "text": "Ann Arbor Film Festival\n\nThe Ann Arbor Film Festival is an annual film festival held in Ann Arbor in the U.S. state of Michigan. Established in 1963, it is the fourth-oldest film festival in North America (after the Yorkton Film Festival, 1947; Columbus International Film & Video Festival, 1953; and the San Francisco International Film Festival, 1957); and the oldest \"experimental\" film festival. It has become one of the premier film festivals for independent and, especially, experimental filmmakers to showcase their work. Now entering its 55th year, the Ann Arbor Film Festival attracts over 3,000 entries from filmmakers in more than 60 countries, and distributes over $20,000 in cash awards. As a pioneer of the traveling festival concept in 1964, each year the Ann Arbor Film Festival Tour continues to present a collection of short films at more than 30 art house theaters, universities, galleries and cinematheques throughout the world.\n\nCreated as an alternative to commercial cinema, the annual week-long festival remains true to its original mission of promoting film as an art form. The Ann Arbor Film Festival also fosters the growth of emerging and established film and video makers. The festival is open to film and video of all lengths and genres, including experimental, narrative, animation, documentary, and genre hybrids. The festival's mission is to supporting bold, visionary filmmakers, promote the art of film & new media, and provide communities with remarkable cinematic experiences.\n\nThe Ann Arbor Film Festival was founded in 1963 by University of Michigan professor George Manupelli. Manupelli originally screened only films in the 16 mm format, and thus the festival was called the 16 mm Film Festival. The festival gained prominence quickly, as it was one of the few outlets for experimental filmmakers to screen their work. In 1980 the festival moved from Lorch Hall on the University of Michigan campus to the Michigan Theater, an Ann Arbor landmark with a seating capacity of 1700. In 1983, after becoming independent from the University of Michigan, the festival became a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization. In 2003 the festival began accepting entries in digital formats, opening up the festival to more filmmakers. In 2007 the festival was named one of Variety magazine's \"Top Ten Festivals We Love.\"\n\nSince its inception, thousands of influential filmmakers and artists have showcased early work at the AAFF, including luminaries such as Kenneth Anger, Agnès Varda, Andy Warhol, Yoko Ono, Gus Van Sant, Barbara Hammer, Lawrence Kasdan, Devo and George Lucas.\n\n"}
{"id": "54413456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54413456", "title": "Art biennials in Africa", "text": "Art biennials in Africa\n\nThe worldwide enthusiasm for art biennials, triennials and other –ennial events rose during the 1990s and is continuing whereas this kind of exhibition format is not a new trend. Indeed, the Venice Biennale was founded in 1895, followed in 1896 by Carnegie International, the Bienal de São Paulo in 1951, Kassel’s Documenta in 1955 and the Biennale of Sydney in 1973, just to name the firsts, mostly driven by capitalist-philanthropic spirit.\n\nThis enthusiasm, which almost no country is exempted from (Dominique Malaquais points out that biennials are the new stadiums countries need to have in order to gain respect on the international arena), is the result of the correlation of three factors in the post-Cold War context that, accordingly to Bruce Ferguson, Reesa Greenberg and Sandy Nairne, can be identified as the worldwide development of the art market, the promotion of the arts as a support of cultural and national identity and the idea that art, seen as a universal language, is an instrument of exchange. Art biennials are also often the best idea for international exposure when a State cannot afford a national art museum and support local artists as Charlotte Bydler underlined it.\n\nEach biennial has its own specificity and history. There is not one model as such, but one common point is that art biennials are first and foremost political events. They are often the cultural response to a national will to favor cultural tourism, to solve a social or identity issue, to legitimize an economic boom or to encourage a process of urban innovation.\n\nBiennials are also tremendous observatories of globalization processes. By promoting a certain locality and at the same time benefitting from global interests, they favor the globalization paradox, which often creates great tensions on a local level.\n\nBiennials from the so-called ‘peripheral’ countries aspire to become other potential centers and to decentralize what was concentrated upon a Euro-American axis until the end of the Cold War. The African continent is no exception and countries started to organize art biennials (besides pan-African festivals which are not included in this account) since the 1950s. Nonetheless, the 1990s, a moment of geopolitical shifts both inside (e.g. the demise of apartheid in South Africa) and outside (e.g. the fall of the Iron Curtain in Europe) the continent, leading to political reorganization, the change of cultural politics and economics as well as urban renewal, were really the decade when art biennials started to be seen as the best ‘invention’ o promote local art and reach a global audience.\n\nEgypt was the first country on the African continent to use the art biennial format as a political tool for national promotion, long before art biennials became a trend in the 1990s and dawned all over the continent, especially since the beginning of the 21st century. The Alexandria Biennale for Mediterranean Countries was founded in 1955 and celebrated its 26th edition in 2016, as for the Cairo International Biennale, it was created in 1984 and organized its last edition in 2012. Initially devoted to Arab contemporary art, Cairo opened up to the international scene from its 1986’s edition. But while Egypt was a precursor, its biennials are less known abroad than other ones held on the continent. This situation can be explained by the provincial focus (despite the international openness of the Cairo biennial) and classical style of the two events (built on the Venice model of national pavilions), combined to the fact that they are state-run events, locked in a national paradigm and with barely any communication tools (neither of them has an official website). Recently, in November 2015, Something Else OFF Biennale Cairo, an artist-run initiative, came into being in order to promote the Egyptian contemporary art scene that is mostly excluded from the Alexandria and Cairo events. The very name of this independent biennial says clearly that its aim is to take a step back from the establishment and give an alternative view of the Egyptian creation.\n\nOne common preconception on African art biennials is to situate the Dakar Biennale or Dak’art as the first sub-Saharan art biennial whereas it was preceded by the Biennale d’art bantou contemporain (or Biennial of Contemporary Bantu Art), founded in 1985. The latter is less covered abroad than DAK’ART, and it lasted for only seven editions (the last one being in 2002). The originality of the project is its creation as part of a more ambitious cultural project initiated by Gabonese President Omar Bongo in 1982: the CICIBA (International Centre of Bantu Civilizations), an intergovernmental project which aimed at preserving and promoting Bantu cultures, seen by the organizers as sharing a homogeneous cultural base whereas they were at that time estimated to represent more than 150 million people dispersed among more than twenty countries. Therefore, the biennial was conceived as an itinerant event. The countries alternated in hosting each edition but each edition also travelled, giving thus a broader visibility to the artists. But this focus on the Bantu roots, leading to a selection exclusively centered on artists creating and living on what was defined by the organizers as the Bantu ‘territory’ as well as favoring painting and sculpture over new media, is probably one of the reasons why the event did not reach an international audience and remained a regional biennial.\n\nThe Dakar Biennale (or DAK’ART) is undoubtedly the most famous of all African based biennials. It was founded in 1990, as the legacy of the Pan-African Festival mondial des arts nègres, which died out in the 1980s before being resuscitated in Dakar in 2010. Celebrating the heritage of Léopold Sedar Senghor’s cultural politics, DAK’ART was initially conceived as a cultural event alternating every two years between poetry/literature and contemporary art. However, the 1990 edition would remain the only one devoted to literature. At its first occurrence in 1992, the art event had an international scope but it was refocused on the African continent from its next edition in 1994. One of the particularities of DAK’ART is its “off” event that spreads out from the official Biennale venues into various locations in the city. Even if the off was founded by the biennale’s administration and not by an external association, it is considered by many as the core of the biennial, giving an extra-space of visibility to the dynamism and richness of African artistic creation, and particularly to promote the Senegalese artists who are not selected in the official exhibitions. Indeed, the selection process is an open call, which has been criticized by many artists who wish a more curated event, because in their view the open call is not democratic as it claims to be, but favors those who have access to relevant information and the means to set up an application file. Each edition is different from the previous one, each learning from the criticism that was made through evaluation seminars. For example, since 2006, an artistic director is appointed and collaborates with a group of curators to select the artists.\n\nThe Rencontres de la photographie africaine or Biennale de Bamako, also known as the Bamako Encounters, is also one of the oldest art biennials on the continent (founded in 1993). It is still active today and has acquired an international reputation across and outside the continent. Its specificity is its focus on photography and video in Africa. Unlike the events aforementioned, the Biennale de Bamako has been driven and organized from its beginnings by the French cultural exchange agency Institut français (formerly AFAA, cultural branch of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs), in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture in Mali. Therefore, curator Simon Njami qualifies the Biennale de Bamako as a “transplanted” event, which required work on a local scale to legitimize the biennial that could first be seen as a neocolonial event serving foreign purposes. It certainly succeeded to gain a local as well as an international renown because it boosted the creation of photography based festivals such as the PhotoFesta Maputo (2002), the Gwanza Month of Photography (2009), or the LagosPhoto Festival (2010) just to name a few.\n\nFounded to celebrate the end of Apartheid and the reopening of the country to the world after decades of boycott, the Johannesburg Biennale, despite its short life (only two editions in 1995 and 1997), is one of the best examples of the fundamental tension into which biennials are caught: to settle into the local and to gain renown on an international level. If for curator Hans Ulrich Obrist the 1997 Johannesburg Biennale was as important as the Venice Biennial or \"documenta X\" held the same year, and was amongst the most influential exhibitions of the 1990s, the local reception of the event was in general radically different. Its absence of engagement with the South African communities and the conceptual and elitist character of the exhibited artworks were harshly criticized in the local press. The biennial was thus seen as a grafted event, serving political interests rather than social and cultural ones, and favoring an international art discourse over a local one. In the case of the Johannesburg Biennale this criticism was one of the pretexts of the Greater Johannesburg City Council to withdraw its support and shut down the event prematurely. Even though the reasons for its cancellation are still not fully elucidated, the Johannesburg Biennale remains nonetheless a mythical biennial because, after decades of isolation due to international boycott, it shed light on the South African art scene and helped many South Africans artists to access the international arena where they are occupying a significant place nowadays.\n\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, at least seventeen art biennials popped up on the African continent (see end list). The great difference with the 20th century is that almost all of these biennials are independent initiatives led by artists and non-profit organizations, i.e. East Africa Art Biennale, Salon Urbain de Douala, AFiRIperFOMA Biennial, Kampala Art Biennale or Rencontres Picha/Biennale de Lubumbashi. Some areas stand out as active artistic centers like Douala (Biennale de Douala DUTA, Salon Urbain de Douala), Morocco (with Casablanca and Marrakech Biennales), Congo (Biennale de Lubumbashi, Yango Biennale) or the city of Kampala (KLA ART, Kampala Art Biennale). Even if some of these biennials are irregularly organized or even abandoned, they are nonetheless symptoms of a cultural effervescence and a will to promote and encourage local artists, be it on a regional level or on a more international one.\n\nThe creation of a biennial not only proceeds from a political motivation, but it also depends on the capacity of the city to host the public. The existence of communication, transport and accommodation infrastructures is necessary and their absence thus requires a consequent budget to build and/or renovate them, which can be a problem for a city/country that does not have the resources to do so. To be accepted at a local level, that is to say, to have the support of the city council or the State, is a \"sine qua non\" condition to ensure longevity and financial stability to the biennial. For example, the disengagement of the Greater Johannesburg City Council in the Johannesburg biennale’s project marked the end of the event. Nonetheless, it does not prevent independent, non-governmental, biennials to exist too. Only the future will tell if private investors will sustain such events on a regular basis for as long as the city of Venice or the State of Senegal have done so far. One aspect also very important to keep in mind is the fact that biennials are just events, even when they are institutionalized like DAK’ART or the Biennale de Bamako. Therefore, they must be seen as steps towards the establishment of sustainable structures to support and promote local artists on a daily basis.\n\nThe opening to the international art arena brought by a biennale is an essential dimension, which pertains then to the location’s inscription (be it a city or a country) on the map both of the art world and of financial investors, attracted by the tourism engendered by the event. To legitimize an art biennial at the international level requires most of the time the invitation of an international curator as artistic director. For example, the Benin Biennial, which was initially conceived in 2010 as a local event to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the independence of the country, appointed a renowned curator, Abdellah Karroum, for the next edition (2012) in order to change its status of a local event into an international one. The organizers of the Marrakech Biennale also knew it well when they appended the “biennial” label on what was at first a local event (The Arts in Marrakech Festival) in order to reach a wider audience without losing the local one, notably by keeping the use of three languages (Arabic, French and English).\n\nArt biennials in Africa are important exponents of the increasing internationalization of contemporary African artists. But one of the pitfalls of this kind of event is the risk of becoming an exotic storefront for Western art critics and curators. Therefore, a real curatorial work has to be done to escape the submission to Western diktat. At the same time, by changing the traditional trajectories of the art world, those biennials force Western institutions to renew themselves, for example by appointing Okwui Enwezor to \"Documenta11\" (2001-2002) or, more recently, to the 56th Venice Biennale's (2015) artistic direction. Enwezor is the first and, so far the only, African and Black person to have directed Documenta or the Venice Biennale.\n\n"}
{"id": "5211597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211597", "title": "Art in Bloom", "text": "Art in Bloom\n\nThe phrase Art In Bloom is often used as the title of various exhibits held annually, usually in spring, in art museums. The phrase was created by a Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, volunteer, Lorraine M. Pitts who also helped found the Danforth Museum in Framingham, MA. The exhibit is composed of traditional visual art pieces and corresponding flower arrangements done by local professional florists and garden club members. \n\nThe original exhibit was held in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston in 1976, where it is held annually; other institutions hosting such displays include the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria, the North Carolina Museum of Art, and the Saint Louis Art Museum in St. Louis, Missouri. Universities such as the University of Missouri's Museum of Art and Archaeology in Columbia, Missouri also hold \"Art in Bloom\" exhibitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "33740111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33740111", "title": "Australian Suzuki Swift Series", "text": "Australian Suzuki Swift Series\n\nThe Australian Suzuki Swift Series is a touring car racing category in Australia. First held in 1995, the series only went for the one season when Suzuki importers ATECO pulled its support. The 2011 and 2012 series is part of the Shannons Nationals and is managed by Trans Tasman Motorsport. The series was inspired by the successful New Zealand and Dutch Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "16896651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16896651", "title": "Black Watch (play)", "text": "Black Watch (play)\n\nBlack Watch is a play written by Gregory Burke and directed by John Tiffany as part of the first season of the National Theatre of Scotland.\n\nBased on interviews with former soldiers, it portrays soldiers in the Black Watch regiment of the British Army serving on Operation TELIC in Iraq during 2004, prior to the amalgamation into the Royal Regiment of Scotland. \"Black Watch\" was first performed during the Edinburgh Festival Fringe on 1 August 2006 in a temporary traverse stage at the former University of Edinburgh Officer Training Corps' Drill hall.\n\nWell received by critics, \"Black Watch\" has won four Olivier Awards including Best New Play.\nIt has also won a \"Herald\" Angel, \"The Scotsman\" Fringe First, a Best Theatre Writing Award from \"The List\", a Stage Award for Best Ensemble, the \"South Bank Show\" award for Theatre and four Critics' Awards for Theatre in Scotland.\n\nThe Black Watch regiment is based in Fife and the Tayside region in Scotland, and the army has been a part of their lives for generations. Their fathers, grandfathers, great grandfathers, have been soldiers in the regiment – a regiment that has been involved in virtually every major conflict since it was formed as the \"Gallant Forty Twa\" in 1739. \"It's in the blood. It's part of who we are.\"\n\nIn October 2004, the Black Watch was at the centre of political controversy after the United States Army requested British forces to be moved further north outside of the British-controlled Multi-National Division, to replace forces temporarily redeployed for the Second Battle of Fallujah.\n\nDespite objections in Parliament, the deployment went ahead. Based at Camp Dogwood, located between Fallujah and Karbala, in an area later dubbed the \"Triangle of Death\", the Black Watch came under sustained insurgent attack from mortars and rockets. On 4 November three soldiers and an interpreter were killed by a car bomb at a check point. The high-profile nature of the deployment caused a magnification of these deaths back home in Britain. On 16 December 2004, the controversy surrounding the Black Watch was further heightened by the official announcement that the regiment was to be amalgamated with the other regiments in the Scottish Division to form the Royal Regiment of Scotland. The then Secretary of State for Defence, Geoff Hoon, was accused by the SNP of \"stabbing the soldiers in the back\" and being motivated purely by political and administrative concerns, with little regard to the effect on morale.\n\nOther cast members have included: Tom Smith (Sergeant/ Writer – 2007 Scottish tour), Jack Fortune (Officer – 2007–2008), Henry Pettigrew (Rossco, 2007–2008) and Jack Lowden (Cammy, 2011).\n\n\"Black Watch\" was the first National Theatre of Scotland production to be performed internationally. Productions tours have travelled:\n\n\nThe production's score features new music and arrangements of traditional songs from composer Davey Anderson alongside contemporary chart hits, instrumentals and recordings. Traditional songs are sung live by the cast. \"The Black Bear\" is performed live on bagpipes.\n\n\n\"They were every soldier; they were also irreducibly themselves. This exquisitely sustained double vision\nmakes \"Black Watch\" one of the most richly human works of art to have emerged from this long-lived war\"\n\"The New York Times\"\n\n\"Rarely has the torpor, the tension, the nerve-shattering randomness of this conflict's violence been made so\nagonizingly real – in real time. \"Black Watch\" is like a dose of caffeine delivered directly to the bloodstream.\"\n\"The Washington Post\"\n\n\"Brimming with breathtaking theatricality, inventiveness, style, thought provoking intelligence,\nhumour and heart…an unmissable piece of theatre.\"\n\"Metro\"\n\n\"A mature and complex piece of political theatre – fierce, passionate and unguarded.\"\n\"The Guardian\"\n\nThe production has won multiple international awards including four Laurence Olivier Awards, four Critics' Awards for Theatre in Scotland and The South Bank Show Award for Theatre.\n\nCritics’ Awards for Theatre in Scotland 2006-2007\n\nA DVD recording of the play, including the Scottish BAFTA award-winning BBC Scotland documentary \"Black Watch: A Soldier's Story\", was released in October 2008. It won in the international category in the 2008 Prix Circom Regional Programme Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "5738569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738569", "title": "Boston Underground Film Festival", "text": "Boston Underground Film Festival\n\nThe Boston Underground Film Festival (BUFF) is an annual event held in the Boston area that specializes in alternative film and video. BUFF is the largest underground film festival in New England, spotlighting short films and feature-length films that would not otherwise find an audience. It is the only film festival in the world to give an award for \"Most Effectively Offensive\".\n\nDespite the festival's title, BUFF has not taken place in Boston proper since 2003. The 2004 festival was held mainly in Arlington, Massachusetts. In 2005, BUFF was held entirely in Somerville, Massachusetts. From 2006 on, BUFF has taken place entirely in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Although BUFF, as an organization, has hosted year round programming at various Boston venues (such as Space 242 in the South End, The Savant Project (now defunct) in Mission Hill and the Milky Way Lounge in Jamaica Plain), there seem to be no current plans to hold the festival in the City of Boston.\n\nBUFF is one of the longest continuously-running underground film festivals in the world; second only to Chicago Underground Film Festival.\n\nStarted in 1998, by film professor/curator David Kleiler, BUFF was an extension of an all night film marathon produced by Kleiler and Dima Ballin. The First Annual Boston Underground Film Festival took place in February 1999 at the now defunct Revolving Museum in South Boston. Described by programmer Bernard Broginart as \"a wonderful hoax of a film festival,\" the first BUFF was an extremely informal event. Patrons were encouraged to wander from room to room for a single ticket price in the art gallery converted to a cinema. This format was continued for the 2000 festival.\n\nIn the years following, BUFF has adopted a more traditional festival format with set screening start times and using actual cinemas and screening rooms. Between 2001 and 2004, BUFF had expanded and contracted with no central location or venue and no set duration. The festival took place during the month of February from 1999 to 2002. In 2003, it was moved to October; then to May in 2004. During this period, numerous venues housed BUFF screenings, including the Milky Way Lounge in Jamaica Plain, The Allston Cinema Underground (now defunct), The Arlington Regent Theatre, and the Brattle Theatre.\n\nBy 2005, BUFF was under new management, with Anna Feder and Kevin Monahan taking over as co-managing directors and bringing on Bryan McKay as graphic designer. David Kleiler retained Executive Director duties this year. One of Feder and Monahan's first actions was to feature the Bacchus bunny front and center by using McKay's striking designs. They also centralized operations during this year, with all screenings taking place at the Somerville Theatre in Davis Square. In 2006 they made Harvard Square BUFF's new home, using the Brattle Theatre as the primary venue. The Brattle also hosted the festival in 2007 and 2008. Kleiler stepped down as Executive Director after the 2006 festival.\n\nAccording to BUFF's website, the 2009 festival was held at the Kendall Square Cinema and the Brattle Theatre, both in Cambridge. The 2010 and 2011 festivals were held exclusively at the Kendall Square Cinema.\n\nAnna Feder stepped down as Director after the 2011 festival.\n\nBUFF's core staff is currently:\nArtistic Director – Kevin Monahan, Director of Programming – Nicole McControversy, Media Director – Bryan McKay.\n\nIn 2012, BUFF moved back to the Brattle Theatre where it has remained the festival's primary screening venue.\n\nRather than giving cash or trade value prizes for awards, BUFF doles out a trophy, that vibrates when held, in the shape of a demonic black bunny with red eyes. The Bacchus Award was incorporated into BUFF in its second year and has since become the official mascot of the festival, a focal point in poster/logo design, and the rationale behind the festival's red/black color scheme. \"And the bunny goes to...\" is the much-anticipated phrase at the award ceremony that closes the festival. A new version of Bacchus, clad in white briefs and clutching a liquor bottle was unveiled for the 2008 festival. The 2008 Bacchus was designed by Casey A. Riley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8729837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8729837", "title": "CGK733 fraud", "text": "CGK733 fraud\n\nCGK733 was a synthetic chemical substance which was reported in 2006 to have remarkable properties in reversing cell senescence (aging). However, the entire work behind the discovery of this compound has since been found to be falsified and the authors of the original reports have retracted all their claims.\n\nCGK733 was claimed to be an inhibitor of ATM/ATR kinases, which are involved in DNA damage repair. CGK was claimed to extend the lifetime of cultured cells by approximately 20 divisions, or roughly 25%, specifically in mammalian cells.\n\nThe original report garnered scientific attention, but was retracted in 2008. The retraction states that the screen to identify CGK733 as an anti-senescence agent was not carried out; experiments exploring the cellular effects of CGK733 were misrepresented; the identification of ATM as the target of CGK733 was fabricated; a compound which was essential for ATM target validation had not been synthesized; and the chemical structure of CGK733 was misrepresented.\n\nThe principal investigator, Tae Kook Kim, and several associates were consequently suspended from their positions at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology.\n"}
{"id": "9326596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9326596", "title": "Camaro Cup", "text": "Camaro Cup\n\nCamaro Cup, officially the Camaro Cup 2000, is a Swedish-based stock car racing series using Chevrolet Camaro Z28s.\n\nThe idea about an American class in Swedish racing was born by the SSK acting director Robin Shorter in 1974. He spread his idea to active racers and to dealers selling American car brands. Work was begun by a group of people, including Shorter, Sven Hjansons, Picko Troberg and Göran Boström, to start a series called the Woodhead Super Star Cup. The first season was held in 1975 and was won by Bo \"Emma\" Emanuelsson, who also won the first ever race of the championship, held at the SSK premiere at Kinnekulle Ring. The series continued for several more seasons and had a couple of famous drivers including Swedish Formula One driver Reine Wisell. 1982 saw the class being changed into the Swedish Super Saloon championship and it was opened for other manufacturers.<br>\nSuper Saloon was a somewhat extreme championship concerning the cars participating - e.g. Volkswagens and Porsches with double turbos. Some of the old Camaro Cup drivers stayed, including two-times champion Peter Norlander who won the premiere in a space frame Camaro. In 1988 Camaro Cup was resumed, with Boström being one of the driving forces behind the series' resumption. Between 1994-1998 the series was dominated by Thomas Engström, winning five driver's titles.<br>\nThe first cars of the current generation of Camaro Cup cars took to the track in 1999. The old cars were phased out during 2000, when two classes (one with the new cars and one with the old cars) was run. Some of the old cup cars later found a new home in the V8 Challenge championship organized by the Swedish Long-distance Championship (SLC). During 2000 the series was called Super Stock Racing.\n\nCamaro Cup had for several years run as a support series to the Swedish Touring Car Championship, but in 2004 it was axed and was forced to return to its SSK roots. The 2005 season was a miserable one, with an average of six cars per weekend, and the grid never made it over seven cars. To bolster the number of starters other SSK classes were added, including old Super Touring cars such as the Audi A4 Quattro and BMW 320i.<br>\n2006 saw the series somewhat return to its former glory. It returned as a part of the STCC program, and grid sizes increased to around 20 cars again. Several notable drivers made guest appearances, including ex-F1 test driver and current Formula Nippon driver Björn Wirdheim, OMV Kronos Citroën WRC driver Daniel Carlsson, Junior WRC champion Per-Gunner Andersson and STCC driver Edward Sandström. As of February 2006, 24 cars have confirmed their entry for the full 2007 season.\n\nCamaro Cup is one of the two available championships (along with STCC) in the Digital Illusions, CE. PC game \"STCC 2\". It is also included in SimBin Studios's game \"STCC – The Game\" (2008 season) and will be included in \"STCC – The Game 2\" (2010 season).\n"}
{"id": "57997331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57997331", "title": "Cherokee County Herald", "text": "Cherokee County Herald\n\nThe Cherokee County Herald is a weekly newspaper in Centre, AL. It has been under the ownership of \"Cherokee County Post\" since 2017 and the two Centre weeklies have a combined circulation of 17,000.\n\nThe \"Herald\" was founded by Joseph M. Shaw Sr. in 1938. He was a veteran and an active member in his community, participating in the Lion's Club, Centre Chamber of Commerce, and First Baptist Church. Joseph \"Joe\" Shaw Jr., who was 17 when the paper first started, became assistant publisher of the \"Herald\". He left his position at the paper for four years while he was in the Army and returned in 1946 as associate editor and publisher, and eventually took on ownership of the paper after his father's death in 1965. \n\nIt was the only weekly newspaper in Cherokee County until 1984, when Consolidated Publishing Co. started the \"Cherokee Sun\" as a weekly shopper. The \"Sun\" was later sold to the Cherokee Publishing Co., publishers of the \"Cherokee County Herald\". The shopper merged with the \"Cherokee County Herald\" and was provided to every household in the county not subscribed to the \"Herald\".\n\nMelrose Shaw briefly became publisher after her husband's death, then retired from the newspaper business and sold the \"Herald\" to News Publishing Co. David Crawford Jr., owner of the \"Cherokee County Post\", bought the \"Herald\" from the News Publishing Company in 2017, restoring local ownership to the paper.\n\ne-Edition\n"}
{"id": "44022067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44022067", "title": "Concerns and controversies at the 2014 Asian Games", "text": "Concerns and controversies at the 2014 Asian Games\n\nA number of concerns and controversies surfaced before and during the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea, which received varying amounts of negative media coverage both domestically and internationally due to its unsportmanlike behaviour.\n\nThe Games were hit by lack of sponsorship and a lack of interest from the public with only 18% of the tickets for the opening ceremony sold a week before the Games. Organizers were able to generate more interest but there were a few hundred empty seats in the 61,000-capacity stadium at the start of the opening ceremony. There was a shortage of free shuttles provided for journalists and athletes in the days leading up to the Games. Organizers supplied more shuttle buses for the late-night shifts at the request of various international media organizations.\n\nWhen the identity of the final torch bearer was revealed to be the actress Lee Young-ae, there were mixed reactions in the local press as she had no direct ties to sports. However, she ultimately passed the torch to a pair of young South Korean athletes and the three lighted the cauldron in unison.\n\nThe honorary ambassadors of the Games, Korean group JYJ, were reportedly dropped from the opening and closing ceremonies and were relegated to perform in the pre-opening ceremony instead, Other confirmed artists such as Psy, Big Bang, CNBLUE and Exo will continue to perform on stage during the opening and closing ceremonies. After the news broke out, fans asked IAG for fair treatment of the group. Eventually, the JYJ sang the official song of the Games.\n\nIn basketball, Olympic Council of Asia's eligibility rule on naturalized players, which contradicted the eligibility rule set by FIBA, became controversial as such rule disqualified Quincy Davis, a US-born player playing for the Chinese Taipei team, and Andray Blatche, a naturalized player of the Philippines, from participating in the tournament. In accordance with the rule, OCA also refused South Korea's request to include Aaron Haynes in the squad, an American veteran player in Korea's basketball league who was in the process of naturalization. Both OCA officials and IAGOC claimed that the OCA's eligibility rule requires a naturalized player to live minimum of three years in the country of his naturalization before becoming eligible to play for that country. Nevertheless, Chinese Taipei Basketball Association stated that it received the positive confirmation from OCA regarding the participation of Quincy Davis, which was suddenly overturned due to the fact that Davis was two months short from residing three full years in Chinese Taipei. Many basketball fans argued that the host nation South Korea brought up the regulation rule at the last minute in order to not allow enough time for its major opponents to reconstruct their squads. Meanwhile, South Korea claimed it was just enforcing the OCA's regulation and the South Korean team themselves were also negatively affected by the rule. Despite the request of FIBA to reconsider the enforcement of the eligibility rule, both OCA and the organizing committee upheld their decision.\n\nSaudi Arabia was the only participating NOC to not send female athletes to the Games despite international pressure from organizations including the Human Rights Watch. The country was accused of taking a step backwards from the 2012 Summer Olympics, the first time in Olympics history that Saudi Arabia lifted its ban on female participation. Mohammed al-Mishal, the secretary-general of Saudi Arabia's Olympic Committee, stated that women weren't included because none have reached the level for international competition. A member of the Saudi Olympic committee later stated that the country plans to send women to compete at the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nQatar women's basketball team was hit by FIBA ban on Muslim headscarf, known as hijab. They were scheduled to play Mongolia but were disallowed. The team eventually withdrew from the tournament, refusing to remove the hijab. FIBA claimed the ban was made due to safety concerns. Qatar officials said the decision was insulting, disrespectful of the religion, and nonsensical as combat sports allow the hijab. One player stated that they had been assured well before the Games that they would be able to wear hijab.\n\nIn cycling, Hong Kong cyclists had raised concerns after they found the competition venue would be an outdoor velodrome of 333 metres in length, instead of a 250 metres indoor velodrome, which is commonly in use during the Olympic Games and the World Cup. Hong Kong Cycling Association claimed that outdoor velodromes are rare in modern cycling and they have to travel far to practice in a similar environment. The organising committee denied any advantage to the host nation. They also claimed that the track was re-coated and received approval from Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI).\n\nThe Chinese team was initially disqualified after shooter Zhang Binbin was found to have violated regulations concerning maximum weight limits of her rifle. The disqualification was eventually reversed after a strong appeal by Chinese officials arguing that Zhang \"didn't intend to break the rule\". This allowed China to retain their team gold and a new world record. This led to a series of allegations that members of jury favoured Zhang.\n\nIn badminton, Chinese coach Li Yongbo accused the hosts of manipulating the wind in the stadium, after China was defeated by South Korea in the final of the men's team event. Yongbo said, \"We did not lose because of technique or tactics, but due to some man-made reasons. The South Koreans deliberately controlled the wind blow in the stadium and took advantage of it.\" Japanese coach Keita Masuda also alleged a similar case saying, \"The wind in this stadium is very strange, always supporting the hosts. Every time we change sides, the wind seems to change sides as well.\" Thailand's Ratchanok Intanon, a former world champion, also went on to blame the \"strangely strong winds\" for her defeat in the quarterfinals of the women's singles event against a South Korean opponent.\n\nIndian lightweight boxer Laishram Sarita Devi lost a highly controversial 60 kg semi-final bout against eventual silver medalist Park Jina of South Korea. Despite what many believed was a better performance by Sarita Devi, all three ringside judges ruled in favor of her opponent, leading to a 0–3 decision. The ringside judges were Braham Mohamad of Tunisia, Albino Foti of Italy, and Mariusz Josef Gorny of Poland. The decision, which drew huge criticism, left Sarita Devi in a state of shock and she was seen weeping inconsolably. Indian Olympic Association (IOA) office-bearers chose not to involve themselves with the situation, leaving Sarita Devi and her husband Thoiba Singh to lodge the protests by themselves. They were unable to pay the USD$500 fee to lodge an official protest against AIBA until Sarita's coach Lenin Meitei and an Indian journalist paid the amount on their behalf. Sarita Devi stunned officials and spectators by refusing to accept the bronze medal during the medal ceremony. Devi initially took her bronze medal and placed it around Park Jina's neck. After reluctantly receiving her medal back from Park Jina, Devi left the medal on the podium after the conclusion of the ceremony. In interviews following the incident, Sarita Devi stated, \"It was a protest for all the sportsmen and women of the world against injustice in sport\". She also criticized Indian officials by stating, \"It has been 24 hours and not one official has come to speak with me and ask me if I am fine. They just come here to take photos with medalists and nothing else.\" AIBA opened disciplinary proceedings against Sarita for returning her medal and Adille Sumariwalla, the head of the Indian Mission, criticized Sarita Devi for her behavior. The following day, Sarita Devi offered an unconditional apology to AIBA for her emotional outbreak during the medal ceremony. She also expressed regret for her actions at the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) hearing and the governing body reinstated Sarita Devi's bronze medal.\n\nShortly after Sarita Devi's controversial loss, Mongolian boxer Nyambayaryn Tögstsogt lost a controversial bout against South Korean Ham Sang-myeong in the 56 kg category. Nyambayar stayed in the ring for 5 minutes, protesting the results. The referees were booed by the crowd, and several Mongolian coaches arranged for a protest to be held.\n\nIn men's 49 kg, India's Devendro Singh dubiously lost 0–3 in his quarterfinal bout against South Korea's Shin Jong-hun, despite out-punching his opponent in all three rounds. Singh's trainer Blas Iglesias Fernandes of Cuba said, \"I wish these judges could be sacked... I suppose the only ones who thought the Korean had won were the judges.\"\n\nIn men's 52 kg, the Association of Boxing Alliances in the Philippines (ABAP) executive director Ed Picson was close to filing a protest against the decision in the match between Filipino boxer Ian Clark Bautista and his Korean opponent Choe Sang-don. Instead, he wrote a letter to Asian Games boxing tournament supervisor David Francis to seek a review of the questionable fights including this fight.\n\nPicson later criticized the judging in three additional fights involving Filipino boxers. In the light flyweight round of 16, Mark Anthony Barriga lost to South Korea’s Shin Jong-hun by unanimous decision. In the bantamweight semifinal bout, Mario Fernandez lost to China's Zhang Jiawei despite a better showing in the final two rounds. In the middleweight semifinal bout, Wilfredo Lopez lost to Jordan's Odai Riyad Adel Alhindawi in a split 2–1 decision. The ABAP executive expressed frustration in the results of all three matches stating, \"I would concede that they were pretty close fights but, that said, we won them.\"\n\nIn women's 57 kg, Thai boxer Sopida Satumrum lost a highly contentious decision to China's Si Haijuan. Two of the three judges scored a 38–38 draw while the third judge ruled 39–37 in favor of the Thai. Under AIBA guidelines, the bout was declared a draw and the decision was deferred to a panel of five judges, which requires a majority decision. The five judges declared Si the winner of the bout. Satumrum burst into tears after the result was announced and stated, \"this is very cruel to me because I did much better than my opponent. I am 100% sure that I won.\" Thai officials filed an official protest but organizers dismissed it saying the decision is beyond contention.\n\nWorawi Makudi, the president of Football Association of Thailand, criticized the referees for making mistakes during the semi-final match between South Korea and Thailand. Coach Kiatisuk Senamuang voiced displeasure about the penalty kick awarded to South Korea following a foul outside the penalty area, which directly led to its second goal at the 45+1' minute mark. Controversy continued as a South Korean defender used his arm to block the movement of the ball twice inside South Korea's penalty area. No call was not made on the handballs. South Korea won the match 2–0. Makudi stated that he would take the matter to the Asian Football Confederation but no official protest was lodged as of 4 October, the conclusion of the Games.\n\nIranian wrestler Saeid Abdevali had defeated South Korean wrestler Jung Ji-hyun in the semifinal of men's 71 kg Greco-Roman event. The winner was declared to be Abdevali, but the Korean officials violently protested the result following which Jung Ji-hyun was declared the winner. Jung Ji-hyun went on to win the gold medal, while Abdevali was forced to settle for bronze.\n\nSome 1,920 samples from 1,600 athletes were tested during the Games. Six athletes tested positive for banned substances and were sent home from the Games.\n\nOn 14 September, five days before the opening ceremony, Tajikistan footballer Khurshed Beknazarov tested positive for methylhexanamine. He was subsequently suspended from all football activity for 30 days. On 25 September, Cambodian soft tennis player Yi Sophany was found positive for sibutramine. Sophany suspected that Sting, her favorite energy drink may have been the cause of her positive doping test results. The doping committee informed her that sibutramine can be found on energy drinks. On 30 September, Malaysian wushu gold medalist Tai Cheau Xuen also tested positive for sibutramine. She was stripped of her gold medal. Malaysian officials appealed against the disqualification but the appeal was dismissed by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). The same day, Iraqi weightlifter Mohammed al Aifuri tested for positive for etiocholanolone and androsterone. It was his second failed drug test in six years. He faces a ban by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF), which had banned him once before in 2008 for taking metandienone. On 1 October, Syrian karate fighter Nour-Aldin al-Kurdi tested positive for clenbuterol. On 3 October, Chinese hammer thrower Zhang Wenxiu became the second gold medalist to be stripped of their gold medal after testing positive for zeranol.\n\nHowever, on 6 May 2015, Zhang's gold medal was returned after further testing performed by independent specialists that the presence zeranol was the consequence of the consumption of contaminated food.\n\nDue to technical reasons, the Asian Games flame went out temporarily.\n"}
{"id": "2434572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2434572", "title": "Contempt of the sovereign", "text": "Contempt of the sovereign\n\nContempt of the Sovereign (also called contempt of statute) was an ancient doctrine in English law dating from medieval times, and now obsolete. It referred to the notion that if somebody disobeyed an Act of Parliament, but the Act did not say what the penalty was or how the Act was to be enforced, then that person was guilty of a criminal offence under common law (although the crime itself was not called contempt). This doctrine was based on the idea that an Act of Parliament was an expression of the Sovereign's will, enacted with the \"advice and consent\" of Parliament. In modern legislation and jurisprudence it has become the rule that contravening a statute is not a crime unless the statute expressly says so in clear terms, and so the doctrine has long since lapsed. However the law does still exist, and the last time it was used was in 1840.\n\nContempt of the Sovereign is not to be confused with lèse majesté.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32762782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32762782", "title": "Cornelius Evans", "text": "Cornelius Evans\n\nCornelius Evans (fl. 1648), was a French impostor.\n\nEvans, a native of Marseille, was the offspring of a Welshman and a woman of Provence. A certain resemblance which he bore to Charles, Prince of Wales induced him to come to England in 1648, and pass himself off as the prince. Taking up his quarters at an inn at Sandwich, Kent, he gave out that he had fled from France because Queen Henrietta, his supposed mother, contemplated poisoning him.\n\nThe Mayor of Sandwich paid homage to him, while one of the aldermen lodged him at his own house, and treated him in every respect as the heir-apparent. Evans received these attentions with condescension, and obtained a number of presents from the well-to-do people of the county. His pretense, however, had an undignified ending. A courtier, whom Queen Henrietta and the real Prince Charles sent over expressly, came to Sandwich and denounced Evans as an impostor.\n\nEvans, far from showing any discomfiture, coolly ordered the mayor to take the courtier into custody. Meanwhile, a party of royalists came to seize Evans, who fled by a back door. He was, however, soon captured, conducted to Canterbury, and thence to London, where he was committed to Newgate Prison. He quickly contrived to make his escape, after which nothing more was heard of him.\n"}
{"id": "15448982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15448982", "title": "Edward P. Doherty", "text": "Edward P. Doherty\n\nEdward Paul Doherty (September 26, 1838 – April 3, 1897) was an Irish-Canadian-American U.S. Civil War officer who formed and led the detachment of soldiers that captured and killed John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of United States President Abraham Lincoln, in a Virginia barn on April 26, 1865, twelve days after Lincoln was fatally shot.\n\nDoherty was born September 26, 1838 in Wickham, Canada East, to immigrant parents from Sligo, Ireland. His birth year has long been incorrectly believed to have been 1840, however it was clearly recorded as 1838 in Wickham's parish records. \n\nHe came to New York in 1860 where he was living when the American Civil War broke out. He enlisted in a 90-day militia unit and was assigned as a Private to Company A of the 71st New York Volunteers on April 20, 1861. Assigned to Colonel Ambrose Burnside's 2nd Brigade of Brigadier General David Hunter's 2nd Division, he was captured by the Confederates during the First Battle of Bull Run, the first major land battle of the American Civil War, fought on July 21, 1861, near Manassas, Virginia. While a prisoner, he made a daring escape. Ultimately, the 71st Regiment, along with Doherty, mustered out on August 9, 1861.\n\nDoherty went on to become a Captain in the Corcoran Legion, formed by fellow prisoner at the First Battle of Bull Run, Irish-American General Michael Corcoran, who was a close confidant of Abraham Lincoln. Doherty served for two years, before being appointed First Lieutenant in the 16th New York Cavalry on September 12, 1863. The regiment was assigned to the defense of Washington, D.C. for the duration of the war, where Doherty distinguished himself as an officer.\n\nOn April 24, 1865, 10 days after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, Acting Assistant Adjunct General A. R. Sewell sent an order to the Commander of the 16th New York Cavalry, Captain Joseph Schneider, to assign a reliable and discreet commissioned officer with 25 men to report to Colonel L. C. Baker at once. Captain Schneider then chose Lieutenant Edward Doherty to lead the group and Doherty reported to Colonel Lafayette C. Baker, Agent of the Department of War. Doherty and his men were to hunt down John Wilkes Booth and any co-conspirators. Two days later, the men of the 16th NY Cavalry Regiment, accompanied by two detectives of the intelligence service, Luther Baker, cousin of Lafayette C. Baker, and Everton J. Conger, caught up with Booth and his accomplice David E. Herold in a tobacco barn near Port Royal, Virginia owned by Richard H. Garrett. With the barn surrounded, Doherty called upon Booth to surrender, but he refused and threatened to shoot anyone who entered. His accomplice relented and as he surrendered to Doherty, Sergeant Boston Corbett fatally shot Booth through a crack in the side of the barn, as the assassin had been aiming to fire at either Doherty or Herold. Doherty stated that \"the bullet struck Booth in the back of the head, about an inch below the spot where his shot had entered the head of Mr. Lincoln.\" Booth's spinal cord was severed, and he died two hours later. Doherty and the men of his regiment returned to Washington, D.C. on April 27, 1865 with Booth's body.\n\nFor his service in the capture of Lincoln's assassin, Doherty was promoted to Captain and given a US$5,250 reward, while remaining in the cavalry. The 16th New York Cavalry was merged with the 13th New York Cavalry forming the 3rd Regiment New York Provisional Cavalry on June 23, 1865, which was then mustered out on September 21, 1865. Seven months later, Doherty joined the regular cavalry and was assigned to the 5th Regular Cavalry as a Second Lieutenant on April 19, 1866. He was promoted to First Lieutenant on March 1, 1867 in the 1st Cavalry and remained in the regular army until mustering out on December 27, 1870. During his last years in the military, he served some time under General George Meade as Inspector General of the Department of Georgia, which had been created by the military in 1865 as part of the Third Military District during the post-war Reconstruction period.\n\n In 1871, after resigning from the United States Army, Doherty went into business in New Orleans. Having returned to New York City in 1886, he was appointed Inspector of Street Pavings, a position which he held from 1888 until his death on the morning of April 3, 1897. He was Past Commander of Veteran Post Number 436, G. A. R.; as well as a member of the 71st Regiment Veterans and also of the Press Veterans. He served twice as Grand Marshal in Memorial Day celebrations. Doherty succumbed to heart disease, dying in his home at 533 West 144th Street, the funeral was held on April 5, 1897 at the Church of St. Charles Boromeo church, then located at 132nd Street and Seventh Avenue. He is buried in Section 1 of Arlington National Cemetery in Washington, D.C.. His tombstone reads: \"Commanded detachment of 16th N.Y. Cavalry which captured President Lincoln's assassin April 26, 1865.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396102", "title": "Formal system", "text": "Formal system\n\nA formal system is used to infer theorems from axioms according to a set of rules. These rules used to carry out the inference of theorems from axioms are known as the logical calculus of the formal system. A formal system may represent a well-defined system of abstract thought. Spinoza's \"Ethics\" imitates the form of Euclid's \"Elements\". Spinoza employed Euclidean elements such as \"axioms\" or \"primitive truths\", rules of inferences, etc., so that a calculus can be built using these.\n\nSome theorists use the term \"formalism\" as a rough synonym for \"formal system\", but the term is also used to refer to a particular style of notation, for example, Paul Dirac's bra–ket notation.\n\nEach formal system uses primitive symbols (which collectively form an alphabet) to finitely construct a formal language from a set of axioms through inferential rules of formation.\n\nThe system thus consists of valid formulas built up through finite combinations of the primitive symbols—combinations that are formed from the axioms in accordance with the stated rules.\n\nMore formally, this can be expressed as the following:\n\n\nA formal system is said to be recursive (i.e. effective) or recursively enumerable if the set of axioms and the set of inference rules are decidable sets or semidecidable sets, respectively.\n\nThe entailment of the system by its logical foundation is what distinguishes a formal system from others which may have some basis in an abstract model. Often the formal system will be the basis for or even identified with a larger theory or field (e.g. Euclidean geometry) consistent with the usage in modern mathematics such as model theory.\n\nA formal language is a language that is defined by a formal system. Like languages in linguistics, formal languages generally have two aspects:\n\n\nIn computer science and linguistics a formal grammar is a precise description of a formal language: a set of strings. The two main categories of formal grammar are that of generative grammars, which are sets of rules for how strings in a language can be generated, and that of analytic grammars (or reductive grammar,) which are sets of rules for how a string can be analyzed to determine whether it is a member of the language. In short, an analytic grammar describes how to \"recognize\" when strings are members in the set, whereas a generative grammar describes how to \"write\" only those strings in the set.\n\nA \"logical system\" or, for short, a \"logic\", is a formal system together with its semantics. According to model-theoretic interpretation, the semantics of a logical system describe whether a well-formed formula is satisfied by a given structure. A structure that satisfies all the axioms of the formal system is known as a model of the logical system. A logical system is sound if each well-formed formula that can be inferred from the axioms is satisfied by every model of the logical system. Conversely, a logic system is complete if each well-formed formula that is satisfied by every model of the logical system can be inferred from the axioms.\n\nA \"deductive system\", also called a deductive apparatus, consists of the axioms (or axiom schemata) and rules of inference that can be used to derive theorems of the system.\n\nSuch deductive systems preserve deductive qualities in the formulas that are expressed in the system. Usually the quality we are concerned with is truth as opposed to falsehood. However, other modalities, such as justification or belief may be preserved instead.\n\nIn order to sustain its deductive integrity, a \"deductive apparatus\" must be definable without reference to any intended interpretation of the language. The aim is to ensure that each line of a derivation is merely a syntactic consequence of the lines that precede it. There should be no element of any interpretation of the language that gets involved with the deductive nature of the system.\n\nEarly logic systems includes Indian logic of Pāṇini, syllogistic logic of Aristotle, propositional logic of Stoicism,￼￼ and Chinese logic of Gongsun Long (c. 325–250 BCE) . In recent times, contributors include George Boole, Augustus De Morgan, and Gottlob Frege. Mathematical logic was developed in 19th century Europe.\n\nDavid Hilbert instigated a formalist movement that was eventually tempered by Gödel's incompleteness theorems.\n\nThe QED manifesto represented a subsequent unsuccessful effort at formalization of known mathematics.\n\nExamples of formal systems include:\n\n\nThe following systems are variations of formal systems.\n\nFormal proofs are sequences of well-formed formulas (or wff for short). For a wff to qualify as part of a proof, it might either be an axiom or be the product of applying an inference rule on previous wffs in the proof sequence. The last wff in the sequence is recognized as a theorem.\n\nThe point of view that generating formal proofs is all there is to mathematics is often called \"formalism\". David Hilbert founded metamathematics as a discipline for discussing formal systems. Any language that one uses to talk about a formal system is called a \"metalanguage\". The metalanguage may be a natural language, or it may be partially formalized itself, but it is generally less completely formalized than the formal language component of the formal system under examination, which is then called the \"object language\", that is, the object of the discussion in question.\n\nOnce a formal system is given, one can define the set of theorems which can be proved inside the formal system. This set consists of all wffs for which there is a proof. Thus all axioms are considered theorems. Unlike the grammar for wffs, there is no guarantee that there will be a decision procedure for deciding whether a given wff is a theorem or not. The notion of \"theorem\" just defined should not be confused with \"theorems about the formal system\", which, in order to avoid confusion, are usually called metatheorems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32140938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32140938", "title": "Glitter bombing", "text": "Glitter bombing\n\nGlitter bombing is an act of protest in which activists throw glitter on people at public events. Glitter bombers have frequently been motivated by, though not limited to, their targets' rape apologism or opposition to same-sex marriage.\n\nSome legal officials argue glitter bombing is technically assault and battery. It is possible for glitter to enter the eyes or nose and cause damage to the cornea or other soft tissues potentially irritating them or leading to infection, depending on the size of the glitter. Whether a prosecutor would pursue the charges depends on a number of factors.\n\nGlitter bombs can be sent through the post, so that glitter falls from an envelope or is forcefully ejected from a larger, spring-loaded package when opened. In 2015, RuinDays.com began offering a service where an envelope containing loose glitter or spring-loaded glitter bombs could be sent anonymously to a victim.\n\nIn the Season 3 premiere of \"Glee\", William McKinley High School teacher and Glee Club director Will Schuester glitter bombs cheerleading coach and candidate for the United States House of Representatives Sue Sylvester as a protest against her support for cutting federal funding for the arts in public schools. The tactic backfires, as Sue sees a boost in her poll numbers after the event is posted to YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "40211753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40211753", "title": "Greek government-debt crisis timeline", "text": "Greek government-debt crisis timeline\n\nThe Greek government-debt crisis began in 2009 and, as of November 2017, was still ongoing. During this period, many changes had occurred in Greece. The income of many Greeks has declined, levels of unemployment have increased, elections and resignations of politicians have altered the country's political landscape radically, the Greek parliament has passed many austerity bills, and protests have become common sights throughout the country.\n\nGreece joined the European Communities (subsequently subsumed by the European Union) on 1 January 1981, ushering in a period of sustained growth. Widespread investments in industrial enterprises and heavy infrastructure, as well as funds from the European Union and growing revenues from tourism, shipping and a fast-growing service sector raised the country's standard of living to unprecedented levels. The country adopted the Euro in 2001 and over the next 7 years the country's GDP per capita more than doubled, from $13,070 in 2001 to $28,660 in 2008. The Greek government, encouraged by the European Commission, European Central Bank, private banking institutions, and the Greek business community also took out loans to pay Greek and foreign infrastructure companies for a wide variety of infrastructure projects such as those related to the 2004 Summer Olympic Games in Athens. Government deficits were also consistently underreported. As the Financial crisis of 2007–08 began to affect Greece's economy, the country's GDP stagnated between 2008 and 2010 and the government's capacity to repay its creditors was drastically reduced.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn June 21, 2018, Greece's creditors agreed on a 10-year extension of maturities on 96.6 billion euros of loans (i.e., almost a third of Greece's total debt), as well as a 10-year grace period in interest and amortization payments on the same loans. Greece successfully exited (as declared) the bailouts on August 20, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48387800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48387800", "title": "Greg Kelsey", "text": "Greg Kelsey\n\nWilliam Gregory \"Greg\" Kelsall (1893-1967), known by the stage name Greg Kelsey, was an English born actor and entertainer who gained fame in the USA in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nWilliam Gregory Kelsall, known to family and friends as \"Greg,\" was born in Stoke-on-Trent on 6 January 1894. He was the eldest son of William Kelsall (b. 1870) and Emma Kelsall (née Bowcock b.1867). His father William Kelsall was a professional vocalist and was subsequently to emigrate to Canada and New York to become an actor, taking the name of William Calvert.\n\nGreg was educated at St. Mary's Catholic Primary School in Leek, Staffordshire and took his first turn at acting under the tutelage of the nuns at the school. His first job after leaving school was as a potters warehouse assistant and he lived at 70 Lime Street Stoke-on-Trent.\n\nHe married May Harper in 1913, shortly before emigrating on his own to Canada.\n\nKelsall departed for North America from Liverpool on 8 May 1913 aboard \"the Corsican\" steamship, aged only 20 years. His occupation was listed as \"labourer\". The ship was bound for Montréal in Québec.\n\nAfter working initially in manual labour, Kelsall was introduced through his father to Mr Henry Duffy, one of America's leading producers, whose company he joined at Montréal. He was then trained under Henry Dixey, a famous international comedian of the American stage. Around this time, he began to be known by his pseudonym \"Greg Kelsey\". After that he went into partnership, with his act being known as O'Neill and Kelsey. He left Canada in April 1925 via Niagara Falls with his wife and two children, destined for the New York Stage.\n\nUpon arrival in New York in 1925, Kelsey received an offer came from Shubert Theatre (New York City) and as a result he signed a contract to play in the noted musical \"Blossom Time\" opposite Eugene Leontivich wife of Gregory Ratoff , the Metro Goldwyn Mayer Director.\n\nKelsey hit hard times during the Great Depression in the early 1930s. He was affected, as were many others, by the closure of a number of the Broadway shows. He was reputed to be working as a singing waiter in 1932 and was living away from home which was then at City Island, Bronx. As USA recovered under President Franklin D. Roosevelt Kelsey returned to the Broadway stage. Between 1934 and 1946 he entertained President Roosevelt, broadcast with Bing Crosby and the Easy Access and made pictures in Hollywood. He was by this point under the management of Charles Colligan, patron of the Barclay Club of Barnstable, Massachusetts.\n\nKelsey was called up to serve in the US Army in 1942 in World War Two. His theatrical skills were put to good use as he received seven citations from the American Congress for work during the War. He appeared in special shows with such people as Bob Hope, Una Plokin, sisters Vaughan-de-Leith and other prominent stars of the day.\n\nAfter the war he performed in the long-running stage hit \"The Gay Nineties\" which became one of the early television shows The Gay Nineties Revue.\n\nDuring his career, Kelsey cultivated friendships with world renowned personalities on the screen including Jimmy Durante, Peter Lorre, Fred Allen, Jim Lurle Junior star of the 1940s radio show \"Can you Top this?\" Jack Whiting, William Cargan, Eddie Dowling and Harry Donnelly (writer of the song \"Hink-a-dink-a-do\") Jimmy Durante's theme song).\n\nHe returned to England in 1945 and then in 1947 to visit family and to explore various offers in the nascent television industry It is not clear whether he took up any of these offers. The last remaining record of his work was the publication of a play called \"Check your Hat\" in 1951.\nKelsey died on 2 July 1967 at Memorial Hospital, New York. He is buried in Holy Cross Cemetery North Arlington.\nKelsey's daughter Ena Kelsall married prominent Big Band jazz musician Arthur Rollini, brother of Adrian Rollini.\n"}
{"id": "6193022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6193022", "title": "HMS Sappho (1837)", "text": "HMS Sappho (1837)\n\nHMS \"Sappho\" was a Royal Navy brig that gained public notoriety for causing a diplomatic incident over the slave trade with the United States of America and then went missing off the Australian coast in 1857–58.\n\n\"Sappho\", one of a class of nine-second-class brigs, was built at the Plymouth Dockyard and over her 20-year career she was variously armed with 16 and later 12 guns. \"Sappho\" was the second Royal Navy vessel to be named after the famous Greek poet Sappho of the 6th and 7th century B.C., the first, a slightly smaller \"Star\"-class brig, having been broken up in 1830.\n\n\"Sappho\" was one of a large number of warships designed by Sir William Symonds that were intended to be both very fast under sail and carry heavy firepower. One of the main drivers for their design was the suppression of slavery. During her 20-year career, \"Sappho\" was engaged in four commissions: West Indies and North American Station (1837–1842), Africa and Cape of Good Hope Stations (1843–1847), West Indies and North America Station (1849–1852) and African Station (1856–1857). Suppression of slavery was the main duty on the African and West Indies stations. On 6 December 1849 , \"Sappho\" stranded on a cay in the Gulf of Honduras but was later refloated. Commander Mitchell was court martialled and dismissed from his ship. This was reported to have been harsh as most of his senior officers were dead or in hospital due to (alleged) Yellow Fever and Mitchell was still suffering with a broken arm from a gunnery accident.\n\n\"Sappho\" left Portsmouth in March 1856 with a crew of about 140 under the command of Commander Fairfax Moresby, eldest son of Admiral Sir Fairfax Moresby, to be part of a British squadron patrolling the coast of West Africa to suppress the slave trade.\n\nOn 9 May 1857, \"Sappho\" seized the American barque \"Panchita\" at Porto de Lenha on the Congo river, commanded by Captain Sladden. Lieutenant Ireland and 12 men were transferred to \"Panchita\" and she was sailed to New York under arrest, arriving on 9 July. On the following day, the owner – J. P. Weeks – brought suit against the prize crew on the grounds of unlawful seizure, as a result of which they were arrested, and held in bail to $15,000. Ultimately, the American courts found for the owners, although compensation had not been settled over two years later. The incident was also raised in the United States Congress.\n\nOn 10 September \"Sappho\" legally intercepted a schooner preparing to board slaves, and burned her. On 18 September \"Sappho\" legally engaged a much larger slaver, the full-rigged ship \"Charles\" of New Orleans, about from Loanda, Portuguese West Africa, and drove it ashore – about 380 slaves were rescued but about 150 were drowned. The Royal Navy later awarded prize money to the crew of \"Sappho\" for this capture.\n\nCommander Moresby was censured for his handling of the \"Panchita\" incident and \"Sappho\" was ordered to proceed to the Australian Station. She sailed from the Cape of Good Hope for Sydney on 8 January 1858 but failed to arrive. As she was not expected in Sydney, her non-appearance caused no concern until late in the year. In October 1858, Admiral W Loring in Sydney was informed that \"Sappho\" had been seen by the crew of the schooner \"Yarrow\" off Cape Bridgewater, Victoria at the western entrance to Bass Strait on 18 February. Extensive searches by a number of vessels including HMS \"Elk\" and HMVS \"Victoria\" failed to find any trace of the missing vessel.\n\nLate in 1858, rumours began spreading in England that the vessel had been wrecked on \"an island off the coast of Australia,\" that some survivors had been rescued and that Capt. Moresby had gone insane. These rumours did the rounds of the international press for over a year as they were picked up and passed along. There was no truth to any of these rumours.\n\nNaval authorities believed it most likely that \"Sappho\" had hit one of the many rocks and islets in Bass Strait and foundered with all hands. Modern reconstructions of events believe it more likely that she capsized during gales that lashed Bass Strait on the days immediately after she was last seen. Naval brigs such as \"Sappho\" were unstable due to the combination of fine hull-lines, heavy armament and high sail area. Between 1856 and 1860, three similar vessels went missing without trace and a fourth, HMS \"Camilla\", capsized off the West Coast of Africa on 9 May 1859 with the loss of about 50 of her crew.\n\nThe Apollo Bay Historical Society asserts on its Historical Shipwrecks Roll of Honour that \"Sappho\" disappeared in between Cape Otway and Cape Patton, off the Victoria Coast near the Otway Ranges. They are unsure as to how this claim is made, although residents of the townships at Wye River and Kennett River claim to be descendants of a ship of the Royal Navy.\n\n2. UK National Archives, ADM53/4006, Ships Log\n"}
{"id": "5325928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325928", "title": "Institutional Web Management Workshop", "text": "Institutional Web Management Workshop\n\nInstitutional Web Management Workshop (IWMW) is a series of workshop events which was originally organised by UKOLN to provide professional development for web managers, policy makers, developers, designers and information professionals related to the UK's higher education community. Following cessation of JISC's core funding for UKOLN, since 2014 the event has been organised by UK Web Focus.\n\nThe event aims to provide an opportunity for discussion and debate amongst the participants. A number of plenary talks address key areas of interest. However the main focus of the workshop centres on the parallel sessions, discussion groups and debates which enable participants to be actively engaged with the issues facing those involved in the provision of institutional Web management services.\n\nThe workshop series began with a two-day event held at King's College London on 16 –17 July 1997 . Following the success of the initial event, in 1998 the event was extended to a 3-day format, although in 2011, due to the economic climate, the event reverted to a 2-day format but returned to a 3-day format the following year.\n\nThe IWMW 2005 event was the first time a WiFi network was available for use by the participants. As described in a paper on \"Using Networked Technologies To Support Conferences\" \n\nthis was an early example of an \"amplified conference\" with the provision of a number of networked technologies being used to support the event. The 7 July 2005 London bombings took place midway through the event. Participants who were making use of the network were first alerted to the news on the event's IRC channel, and a record of the discussions when the participants first became aware of the significance of this news is available.\n\nReports on IWMW events written by event delegates have been published for\nIWMW 2003 ,\nIWMW 2004 ,\nIWMW 2005 , \nIWMW 2006 ,\nIWMW 2007 ,\nIWMW 2008 , \nIWMW 2009 ,\nIWMW 2010 \nand IWMW 2012 .\n"}
{"id": "26120670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26120670", "title": "International disaster response laws", "text": "International disaster response laws\n\nThe growing number of disasters and their humanitarian impacts has prompted the need for a framework that addresses the responsibilities of states and humanitarian agencies in disaster settings. This has led to the emergence of international disaster response laws, rules and principles (IDRL): a collection of international instruments addressing various aspects of post-disaster humanitarian relief. The IDRL of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent (IFRC) examines the legal issues and frameworks associated with disaster response with particular emphasis on international humanitarian assistance. The IDRL Programme seeks to promote the use of the IDRL Guidelines and support national Red Cross societies in improving legal preparedness for natural disasters in order to reduce human vulnerability.\n\nThere is often a greater expectation in the case of disasters than in armed conflicts that domestic authorities will take the primary role in international humanitarian aid efforts and will not only facilitate access, but also coordinate it and monitor its effectiveness. In addition, given the longer establishment of International Humanitarian Law (IHL), there is much broader acceptance and clarification of the specific rights and obligations in armed conflict. There are fewer conditions that can legitimately be imposed on international humanitarian organizations before allowing them access in conflict settings.\n\nIn terms of regulatory concerns, many of the same issues are faced in both disaster and conflict environments. These include regulatory barriers, such as bureaucratic delays in the entry of personnel, goods and equipment; and regulatory gaps, such as the absence of mechanisms to facilitate efficient domestic legal recognition of international organizations. There are also differences, however, for example concerns over security, which may not be as relevant in some disaster situations.\n\nIn mixed situations, where there is both a disaster and ongoing armed conflict – for example the 2004 tsunami in Sri Lanka – IHL is the governing law. Even if the need for relief is prompted by a natural disaster rather than by ongoing fighting, the obligations of the parties to the conflict in an armed conflict setting remain the same.\n\nIDRL is not a comprehensive or unified framework. There are no core international treaties, such as the Geneva Conventions and Additional Protocols under IHL. Rather, it consists of a fragmented and piecemeal collection of various international, regional and bilateral treaties, non-binding resolutions, declarations, codes, guidelines, protocols and procedures. This includes relevant provisions of international treaties in other areas of law, such as international human rights law, international refugee law and IHL (in the case of conflict situations).\n\nThese largely comprise bilateral treaties, covering various areas such as technical assistance, mutual assistance and agreements regulating humanitarian relief between the two state parties. The latter two tend to involve formal rules for the initiation and termination of assistance; and provisions for reducing regulatory barriers (involving e.g. visas and work permits and customs control for relief personal and goods). Regional treaties have largely been adopted for mutual disaster assistance and are in place in the Americas, Asia and Europe.\n\nThere are a limited number of multilateral treaties. Like other bilateral treaties, they are often focused on a particular sector of operations such as health, telecommunications and transport. The global, but sectoral, Tampere Convention of 1998, for example, commits parties to reduce regulatory barriers and restrictions on the use, import and export of telecommunications equipment for disaster relief. Some global treaties are specific to particular types of disasters, including environmental treaties and treaties concerning industrial or nuclear accidents. Although these global treaties are legally binding, many are limited in utility as few states have ratified them or they are very limited in scope, geographic reach, or enforceability. In addition, few treaties address international actors other than states or UN agencies.\n\nIt has been argued that there is a right to receive humanitarian assistance in disaster situations under customary international law. Sources relied upon include the ‘Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief’ which states that there is a right to receive and to offer humanitarian assistance. In addition, the right to a healthy environment as an aspect of the fundamental right to life has been relied upon not only to demonstrate a right to assistance under IHRL but also as part of customary international law.\n\nHowever, for practice to develop into customary law there must be an indication of extensive and uniform state practice and a belief that such actions are required by law. In contrast, states have often responded to disasters on a case-by-case basis. It is also doubtful whether actions of non-state actors can be relied upon to satisfy the requirements of international custom.\n\nThe instruments with the broadest scope in IDRL are non-binding recommendations, declarations and guidelines. This includes the ‘Measures to Expedite International Relief’, endorsed by the UN General Assembly and the International Conference of the Red Cross in 1977. The General Assembly also passed Resolution 36/225 in 1981, which called for strengthening the UN’s capacity to respond to disasters; and Resolution 46/182 in 1992, which called for a ‘strengthening of the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance of the United Nations system’. Around the same time, the office that would later become the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) was created. In 2002, the General Assembly adopted Resolution 57/150, which reaffirmed resolution 46/182 and provided for strengthening the effectiveness and coordination of international urban search and rescue assistance.\n\nThe International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies adopted in 2007 the ‘Guidelines for the Domestic Facilitation and Regulation of International Disaster Relief and Initial Recovery Assistance’. They are considered to be a significant development to the IDRL framework, with the potential to contribute to the development of norms under customary international law.\n\nWhile regulatory problems in the delivery of humanitarian assistance exist in both disaster and conflict settings, they are exacerbated in the former due to the absence of an established comprehensive legal framework and an undeveloped disaster response and coordination mechanism. Common problems identified include:\n\nIn cases of major disaster, it is very rare that a state will refuse international assistance (the case of Burma was a unique situation). Instead, the more common problem is delay in the issuance of a formal request for such assistance or in the response to international offers. This could be due to weaknesses in national procedures and regulations for needs assessment and decision-making.\n\nEven where consent is given for humanitarian operations, there are often problems with visas and travel restrictions. Disaster personnel are often granted entry on tourist or other temporary visas, which can cause subsequent problems with renewal and efforts to obtain work permits. Customs formalities are also a frequent problem, with relief goods held up for long periods of time waiting for clearance. The recognition of domestic legal status is another common problem for international relief providers, particularly for NGOs and foreign Red Cross or Red Crescent societies. The processes are often too slow or difficult to negotiate in emergency settings. Unregistered organisations face various problems, including difficulty opening bank accounts, hiring staff, obtaining visas for workers and tax exemptions. Bilateral agreements, negotiated in advance of an emergency, can be of significant assistance in addressing these issues. Without an agreement is in place, there is little guidance at the international level beyond the general obligation to facilitate aid.\n\nAlthough affected states are expected to play the leading role in disaster settings, they have in some cases adopted a ‘hands-off’ approach, which has resulted in uneven and uncoordinated international efforts. International legal regulation of the quality of humanitarian assistance is also considered weak. This is due in part to states’ reluctance to create legal frameworks that could threaten control over their borders; and concern by humanitarian actors that quality control regulations could result in loss of independence and freedom of action.\n\nAlthough IDRL is still in a nascent stage and gaps remain in its framework, progress has been made. The adoption of the ‘Guidelines for the Domestic Facilitation and Regulation of International Disaster Relief and Initial Recovery Assistance’ (IDRL Guidelines) by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in 2007 is considered to be a significant development. Although these guidelines are non-binding, they are comprehensive in geographic scope, relevant for all sectors and for all types of disasters, and address both state and non-state actors. They aim to foster international agreement on how to address key issues specific to disaster settings. They define the responsibilities of affected states (reinforcing that primary responsibility lies with affected states) and offer a set of recommendations to governments for preparing their domestic laws and systems to manage international assistance during relief efforts. This includes encouraging legal facilities for operation, such as visa, customs and transport facilitation, tax exemptions, and a simplified process for acquiring temporary domestic legal personality. These facilities are conditional on ongoing compliance by humanitarian actors with core humanitarian principles and minimum standards drawn from widely recognised sources, such as the Code of Conduct.\n\nThe substance of the guidelines is drawn primarily from international laws, rules, norms and principles; and from lessons and good practice from the field. The guidelines have achieved broad international support. State parties to the Geneva Conventions adopted these guidelines at the International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent in 2007. Moreover, several countries have already adopted new regulations or administrative rules based on or inspired by the guidelines. \nThe International Law Commission (ILC), an expert body of the UN charged with codifying customary international law, has also been engaging in advancing the framework for disaster response. Its programme on the ‘Protection of Persons in the Event of Disasters’ is aimed at developing a legally binding framework at the global level. Draft articles include attention to humanitarian principles; the duty of states to seek assistance when their national response capacity is exceeded; the duty not to arbitrarily withhold consent to external assistance; and the right of the international community to offer assistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "13714655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13714655", "title": "James H. Kasler", "text": "James H. Kasler\n\nColonel James Helms Kasler (May 2, 1926 – April 24, 2014) was a senior officer in the United States Air Force and the only person to be awarded the Air Force Cross three times. The Air Force Cross ranks just below the Medal of Honor as an award for extraordinary heroism in combat.\n\nKasler was a combat veteran of World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. In Korea, as an F-86 Sabre pilot with the 4th Fighter-Interceptor Wing, he was recognized as an ace, credited with shooting down 6 MiG-15s. Kasler flew a combined 198 combat missions and was a prisoner of war in North Vietnam from August 1966 until March 1973.\n\nHe flew a total of 101 combat missions in an F-86E Sabre and scored 6 confirmed air-to-air victories and two more damaged against MiG-15s, becoming among the first jet aces of the Korean War.\n\nKasler was deployed directly to Southeast Asia. He served as an F-105 pilot with the 354th Tactical Fighter Squadron of 335th Tactical Fighter Wing at Takhli Royal Thai Air Force Base at Thailand, on February 1966. By August 1966, an article in Time Magazine labeled him \"the hottest pilot\" in Vietnam and his wingmates called him \"a one-man Air Force\".\n\nWhile flying F-105D-31-RE Thunderchief 62-4343 on his 91st combat mission on August 8, 1966, Kasler was awarded a second Air Force Cross as leader of a formation that was evaluating low-level delivery against a priority target. When his wingman, 1st Lt Fred R. Flom was hit and ejected, Major Kasler located the downed pilot, flew cover at low altitude until his fuel was almost gone, rendezvous with a tanker, and returned to direct rescue operations. Flying at treetop level in an attempt to relocate his wingman, Kasler's F-105 was disabled by ground fire. He ejected, was captured and singled out for special attention by his captors and tortured repeatedly to get him to cooperate with their propaganda efforts.\nFor more than a month in 1967 Kasler was the target of nearly continuous daily torture. He received his third award of the Air Force Cross for resisting torture inflicted on him over a two-month period during the summer of 1968 in an attempt to coerce his cooperation with visiting anti-war delegations and propaganda film makers.\n\nKasler described his worst treatment:\nAt one point, during the fall of 1967, Kasler's captors took his clothes and his mosquito net. For three days, they denied him food and water and they beat his back and buttocks with a truck fan belt, every hour on the hour, 6 a.m. until 10 or 11 p.m. His torturer asked if he surrendered. Kasler finally gasped yes.\n\nThe guard nicknamed \"Fidel\" by the POWs returned to Kasler's cell the next day and demanded that he surrender. Kasler refused and the beatings resumed and continued for another two days. Kasler suffered a fractured rib, a ruptured eardrum and broken teeth. He was left with the skin hanging off his rear end down to the floor. His face was so swollen, it hung like a bag, his eyes almost shut. Kasler's mangled and infected leg, which tormented him throughout his captivity and for years afterward, swelled to the point he feared it would explode.\n\nHe was finally released on March 4, 1973, during Operation Homecoming, after spending 2,401 days in captivity.\n\nKasler was married to his wife, Martha (Rankin), for 65 years. She had moved to Indianapolis from Macomb, Illinois, as an eighth-grader. They had a daughter Suzanne and twins James and Nanette. Suzanne operates a nationally known interior design firm in Atlanta\nand Nanette is the owner of NKL Designs. They have four grandchildren: Kane Lauck, Ryan Kasler, Jackie Kasler and Alexandra Morris.\n\nHe spent the last 39 years of his life as a resident of Momence, Illinois, where he owned and developed South Shore Golf Course in Momence and had interests in banking and real estate, served on a number of boards and received a variety of civic and service awards.\n\nIn 2007, Kasler appeared on an episode of the History Channel series \"Dogfights\". In the episode, titled 'No Room for Error', Kasler's \"May 15, 1952 mission\", where he shot down two MiG-15s, action is depicted. The episode was the eighth episode of the second season of the series, which recreated historical air combat campaigns using modern computer graphics.\n\nOn 15 September 2007 the United States Air Force dedicated a monument to him. He and his wife Martha resided in Illinois. \n\nKasler died April 24, 2014 in West Palm Beach, Florida and is buried with full military honors at Crown Hill Cemetery.\n\nIncluded among his 76 awards for valor and service, in addition to receiving three awards of the Air Force Cross, Kasler was decorated twice with the Silver Star and awarded a Legion of Merit, nine Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Bronze Star Medals, two Purple Hearts, and eleven Air Medals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1603448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603448", "title": "Jewel Ball", "text": "Jewel Ball\n\nThe Jewel Ball is the main annual debutante ball held in Kansas City, Missouri, in the United States. It is organized by the Jewel Ball Foundation, which appoints a prominent Kansas City socialite to be the chairwoman.\n\nBeginning in 1887, partially in response to the establishment of St. Louis's popular annual Veiled Prophet Fair and Veiled Prophet Ball in 1878, Kansas City held an annual harvest-time, Mardi Gras-style festival called the Priests of Pallas. It consisted of a public parade and an invitation-only debutante ball (the Priests of Pallas Ball), organized by a secret society of prominent Kansas Citians that called itself the Priests of Pallas. The first year, President Grover Cleveland attended. Gradually, however, the public lost interest. The festival was suspended for several years beginning in 1912, began again in 1922, and ended for good in 1924. The queen of the festival (Pallas Athene) in 1922 was Miss Ada Bell Files from Fort Scott, Kansas. She was a freshman at Lindenwood School (now Lindenwood University).\n\nOther cities' established debutante festivities, such as St. Louis's annual Veiled Prophet Ball, however, lived on. By the 1950s, many prominent Kansas Citians thought that Kansas City again needed some sort of debutante festivities. In 1954, Clara Hockaday and Enid Kemper, prominent Kansas City social matrons, founded the Jewel Ball with help from local businessman Alfred Lighton. \n\nSince its inception, the ball has benefited the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and the Kansas City Symphony. From 1954 until 2000, the ball was held in the main hall of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art. A large construction project at the museum forced a temporary move to Swope Park's Starlight Theatre (Kansas City). The Jewel Ball returned to the museum in 2008.\n\nThe debutantes, or debs, are freshmen in college and come from some of the most prominent Kansas City families. A person can debut only if a family member has debuted before them or if the family makes a large donation.\n"}
{"id": "38686578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38686578", "title": "List of Nirvana concerts", "text": "List of Nirvana concerts\n\nFrom March 1987 to March 1, 1994, Nirvana performed on various shows and concerts:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The long-standing rumor that the last Nirvana concert was shortened is not true. It was a full-length show.\n\n"}
{"id": "18444031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18444031", "title": "List of Tol concerts", "text": "List of Tol concerts\n\nThis is a complete list of concerts and mini-concerts performed by Vonthongchai Intarawat or Tol\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12136453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12136453", "title": "Live Earth concert, Washington, D.C.", "text": "Live Earth concert, Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Live Earth concert in Washington, D.C., officially known as \"Mother Earth\", was held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., United States and was sponsored by and held on the premises/venue of the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian.\n\nIt was only hours before the Washington D.C. concert was scheduled to begin that organizers were able to secure a venue for the last-minute addition to the schedule. \"The Washington Post\" reported the U.S. capital had been Gore's first choice for the main concert, but the National Mall was booked. The main concert was moved to New Jersey, but Gore made a surprise announcement during a July 6 media interview that a concert would take place on the plaza of the Museum of the American Indian. \"Some who don't understand what is now at stake tried to stop this event on the Mall, but here we are. [crowd is cheering] And it wasn't the cavalry who came to our rescue, it was the American Indians,\" Gore said during brief opening remarks carried live on the website . Only the first 200 attendees were able to directly view the event at the Museum. Others watched Gore speak and Brooks play from what event organizers called a \"JumboTron\" outside the immediate viewing area. Due to last minute organizing, there were no working audio speakers that could project sound to the JumboTron viewers.\n\n"}
{"id": "39887334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39887334", "title": "Melodifestivalen 2014", "text": "Melodifestivalen 2014\n\nMelodifestivalen 2014 was the Swedish music competition which selected Sweden's 54th entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2014. Sanna Nielsen won the competition with the song \"Undo\". This was one of the closest results in Melodifestivalen history, as Nielsen beat her nearest rival, Ace Wilder, by only two points.\n\nFor the thirteenth consecutive year the competition consisted of four semi-finals, a \"Second Chance\" round, and a final. A total of 32 entries were divided into four semi-finals, with eight compositions in each. From each semifinal, the songs that won first and second place went directly to the final, while the songs that placed third and fourth proceeded to the Second Chance semi-final. The bottom four songs in each semifinal were eliminated from the competition. As in 2013, half of the competing entries were chosen by a selection panel from the received submissions, while the other half was selected through an invitation process by SVT. A new rule for the 2014 competition stipulated that at least 20% of the selected entries were to be written by female composers/lyricists in a full or partial capacity.\n\nMelodifestivalen 2014 was the thirteenth consecutive year in which the competition took place in different cities across Sweden. The four semifinals were held in Malmö (1 February), Linköping (8 February), Gothenburg (15 February) and Örnsköldsvik (22 February). The Second Chance round was held in Lidköping on 1 March while the final in Solna was held on 8 March. Starting order is set.\n\nThe Andra Chansen (\"Second Chance\") round was held on 1 March in Sparbanken Lidköping Arena, Lidköping.\n\nThe final of Melodifestivalen 2014 took place on 8 March 2014 at the Friends Arena in Solna. The 10 songs that qualified for the finals had either accomplished being the top two in their respective semifinal, or qualified from the Second Chance round.\n\n"}
{"id": "4695860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695860", "title": "Nagorno-Karabakh conflict", "text": "Nagorno-Karabakh conflict\n\nThe Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is a territorial and ethnic conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh and seven surrounding districts, which are \"de facto\" controlled by the self-declared Republic of Artsakh, but are internationally recognized as \"de jure\" part of Azerbaijan. The conflict has its origins in the early 20th century, when predominantly Armenian-populated and historically Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh region was made an autonomous oblast in Soviet Azerbaijan by the decision of Joseph Stalin. The present conflict began in 1988 when the Karabakh Armenians demanded that Karabakh is transferred from Soviet Azerbaijan to Soviet Armenia. The conflict escalated into a full-scale war in the early 1990s.\n\nA cease-fire signed in 1994 provided for two decades of relative stability, which significantly deteriorated along with Baku’s increasing frustration with the status quo, at odds with Yerevan’s efforts to cement it. A four day escalation in April 2016 marks the worst fighting to date since the cease-fire. Since then, the danger of resumed large-scale hostilities has greatly increased.\n\nWith Perestroika and the upcoming dissolution of the Soviet Union, ethnic tensions between Armenians in Azerbaijanis increased in the Nagorno-Karabakh region.\n\nAs of 2017, public opinion on both sides has been noted as \"increasingly entrenched, bellicose and uncompromising\". In this context, mutual concessions that might lower tensions in the longer term could in the shorter run threaten internal stability and the survival of ruling elites, hence leaving little incentive for compromise.\n\nThe Nagorno-Karabakh War, also known as the \"Artsakh Liberation War\" in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, was an armed conflict that took place in the late 1980s to May 1994, in the enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh in southwestern Azerbaijan, between the majority ethnic Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh backed by the Republic of Armenia, and the Republic of Azerbaijan. As the war progressed, Armenia and Azerbaijan, both former Soviet Republics, entangled themselves in a protracted, undeclared war in the mountainous heights of Karabakh as Azerbaijan attempted to curb the secessionist movement in Nagorno-Karabakh. The enclave's parliament had voted in favor of uniting itself with Armenia and a referendum, boycotted by the Azerbaijani population of Nagorno-Karabakh, was held, whereby most of the voters voted in favor of independence. The demand to unify with Armenia, which began anew in 1988, began in a relatively peaceful manner; however, in the following months, as the Soviet Union's disintegration neared, it gradually grew into an increasingly violent conflict between ethnic Armenians and ethnic Azerbaijanis, resulting in claims of ethnic cleansing by both sides.\n\nInter-ethnic clashes between the two broke out shortly after the parliament of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (NKAO) in Azerbaijan voted to unify the region with Armenia on 20 February 1988. The circumstances of the dissolution of the Soviet Union facilitated an Armenian separatist movement in Soviet Azerbaijan. The declaration of secession from Azerbaijan was the final result of a territorial conflict regarding the land. As Azerbaijan declared its independence from the Soviet Union and removed the powers held by the enclave's government, the Armenian majority voted to secede from Azerbaijan and in the process proclaimed the unrecognized Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh.\n\nFull-scale fighting erupted in the late winter of 1992. International mediation by several groups including the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) failed to bring an end resolution that both sides could work with. In the spring of 1993, Armenian forces captured regions outside the enclave itself, threatening the involvement of other countries in the region. By the end of the war in 1994, the Armenians were in full control of most of the enclave and also held and currently control approximately 9% of Azerbaijan's territory outside the enclave. As many as 230,000 Armenians from Azerbaijan and 800,000 Azerbaijanis from Armenia and Karabakh have been displaced as a result of the conflict. A Russian-brokered ceasefire was signed in May 1994 and peace talks, mediated by the OSCE Minsk Group, have been held ever since by Armenia and Azerbaijan.\n\nSome clashes occurred in the years following the 1994 ceasefire.\n\n2008 Mardakert skirmishes\nThe 2008 Mardakert skirmishes began on 4 March after the 2008 Armenian election protests. It involved the heaviest fighting between ethnic Armenian and Azerbaijani forces over the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh since the 1994 ceasefire after the Nagorno-Karabakh War.\n\nArmenian sources accused Azerbaijan of trying to take advantage of ongoing unrest in Armenia. Azerbaijani sources blamed Armenia, claiming that the Armenian government was trying to divert attention from internal tensions in Armenia.\n\nFollowing the incident, on March 14 the United Nations General Assembly by a recorded vote of 39 in favour to 7 against adopted Resolution 62/243, demanding the immediate withdrawal of all Armenian forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan.\n\n2010 violence\nThe February 2010 Nagorno-Karabakh skirmish was a scattered exchange of gunfire that took place on February 18 on the line of contact dividing Azerbaijani and the Karabakh Armenian military forces. Azerbaijan accused the Armenian forces of firing on the Azerbaijani positions near Tap Qaraqoyunlu, Qızıloba, Qapanlı, Yusifcanlı and Cavahirli villages, as well as in uplands of Agdam Rayon with small arms fire including snipers. As a result, three Azerbaijani soldiers were killed and one wounded.\n\nThe 2010 Mardakert skirmishes were a series of violations of the Nagorno-Karabakh War ceasefire. They took place across the line of contact dividing Azerbaijan and the ethnic Armenian military forces of the unrecognized but \"de facto\" independent Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Both sides accused the other of violating the ceasefire regime. These were the worst violations of the cease fire (which has been in place since 1994) in two years and left Armenian forces with the heaviest casualties since the Mardakert skirmishes of March 2008.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2010, 74 soldiers were killed on both sides.\n\n2011–2013 continued fighting\nIn late April 2011, border clashes left three Nagorno-Karabakh soldiers dead, while on 5 October, two Azerbaijani and one Armenian soldier were killed. In all during the year, 10 Armenian soldiers were killed.\n\nThe following year, border clashes between the armed forces of Armenia and Azerbaijan took place from late April through early June. The clashes resulted in the deaths of five Azerbaijani and four Armenian soldiers. In all during 2012, 19 Azerbaijani and 14 Armenian soldiers were killed. Another report put the number of Azerbaijani dead at 20.\n\nThroughout 2013, 12 Azerbaijani and 7 Armenian soldiers were killed in border clashes.\n\n2014 clashes and helicopter shootdown\nIn 2014, several border clashes erupted that had resulted in 16 fatalities on both sides by 20 June.\n\nOn 2 August, Azerbaijani authorities announced that eight of their soldiers had been killed in three days of clashes with NKO forces, the biggest single death toll for the country's military since the 1994 war. NKO denied any casualties on their side, while saying the Azerbaijanis had suffered 14 dead and many more injured. Local officials in Nagorno-Karabakh reported at least two Armenian military deaths in what was the largest incident in the area since 2008. Five more Azerbaijani troops were killed the following night, bringing the death toll from the August clashes to at least 15. The violence prompted Russia to issue a strong statement, warning both sides not to escalate the situation further.\n\nBy August 5, 2014 the fighting that started on 27 July had left 14 Azerbaijani and 5 Armenian soldiers dead. Overall, 27 Azerbaijani soldiers had died since the start of the year in border clashes.\n\nIn a separate incident in July 2014, the NKR Defense Army announced that troops had killed one and arrested two members of an Azerbaijani subversive group that had penetrated the contact line. In addition to spying on Armenian troop movements and military installations and civilian settlements in Karvachar (Kelbajar), the team was charged with the murder of Smbat Tsakanyan, a seventeen-year-old Armenian boy and resident of the village of Jumen. Both surviving members of the group were sentenced to life in prison by an Armenian court. In July 2015, video footage recorded by the team was released to the public and aired on Armenian state television.\n\nOn November 12, 2014, the Azerbaijani armed forces shot down a Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army Mil Mi-24 helicopter over Karabakh's Agdam district. Three servicemen were killed in the incident. Armenia’s Defense Ministry stated the aircraft was unarmed and called its downing an \"unprecedented provocation\". Azerbaijani authorities claimed the helicopter was \"trying to attack\" Azerbaijani army positions. Armenian authorities stated that Azerbaijan will face \"grave consequences\". With the crash, 2014 became the deadliest year for Armenian forces since the 1994 ceasefire agreement, with 27 soldiers killed in addition to 34 fatalities on the Azerbaijani side. Six Armenian civilians also died in 2014, while by the end of the year the number of Azerbaijanis killed rose to 39 (37 soldiers and 2 civilians).\n\n2015 sporadic fighting\n\nIn 2015, 42 Armenian soldiers and 5 civilians were killed as border clashes continued. In addition, at least 64 Azerbaijani soldiers also died.\n\nSporadic fighting primarily took place in: January, June, August, September, November and throughout December.\n\nOver the years, Azerbaijan had been growing impatient with the status quo. In this regard, propelled by oil and gas windfall, the country embarked in a military build-up. In 2015 alone, Baku spent $3bn on its military, more than Armenia’s entire national budget.\n\nThroughout January and February 2016, four Armenian and four Azerbaijani soldiers were killed in fighting at the Nagorno-Karabakh border. The first casualty of 2016 was a Nagorno-Karabakh soldier Aramayis Voskanian, who was killed by Azerbaijani sniper fire while serving in the eastern direction of the Line of Contact. In mid-February, Hakob Hambartsumyan, an Armenian herdsman from Vazgenashen, was killed by an Azerbaijani sniper. In March, two Azerbaijani and one Armenian soldier were killed in clashes along the border between Azerbaijan and Armenia.\n\nBetween 1 and 5 April 2016, heavy fighting along the Nagorno-Karabakh frontline left 88 Armenian and 31–92 Azerbaijani soldiers dead. One Armenian and three Azerbaijani soldiers were also missing. In addition, 10 civilians (six Azerbaijani and four Armenian) were also killed. During the clashes, an Azerbaijani military helicopter, 13 unmanned drones were shot down and an Azerbaijani tank was destroyed.\n\nBetween 8 and 17 May 2016, sporadic fighting left 14 Armenian and three Azerbaijani soldiers dead, as well as one Azerbaijani civilian.\nOn 5 October 2016, Armenian artillery shelled Azerbaijani positions on the line of contact with one Azerbaijani soldier being killed. One Armenian soldier was killed on 11 October 2016 in a skirmish on the line of contact. On 15 November, an Azerbaijani soldier was killed on the line of contact. On 27 November, Azerbaijani forces reported shooting down an Armenian drone which had crossed the line of contact.\n\nA Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed in action with Azerbaijiani forces on 6 February 2017. On 8 February 2017, one Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed and another wounded in a firefight with Azerbajiani troops along the line of contact. On 24 February 2017, Azerbaijani forces shelled the Armenian positions near the village of Talish with artillery. The next day a large firefight broke out with Azerbajiani forces approaching Armenian lines in the same area, 5 Azerbaijani soldiers were killed in the ensuing engagement.\n\nOn 15 May 2017, a Karabakh Osa air defense system was damaged or destroyed by a guided missile launched by Azerbaijani forces. On 20 May 2017, an Armenian soldier was killed in a firefight with Azeri troops, the Azerbaijani military utilized anti-tank grenades and 60mm mortar fire in the action. On 26 May 2017, a Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed in a skirmish with Azerbajiani forces involving mortars and grenade launches. On 16 June 2017 three Nagorno-Karabakh soldiers were killed by Azeri forces. On 22 June 2017 four Azeri soldiers were killed by Nagorno-Karakakh soldiers. On July 4 an Azeri woman and her two-year-old grandchild were killed as a result of shelling by Armenian forces. On 10 July 2017 a Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed in shelling by the Azerbaijani forces. On 25 July 2017, Azerbaijan claimed that one of its soldiers was wounded by a munition dropped from an Armenian UCAV. On 31 August 2017, Azerbaijani military positions were fired at and shelled at from Armenian military positions. The Armenian military were using large-caliber machine guns.\n\nA Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed by an Azerbaijani sniper near the line of contact on 7 January 2018.\nA Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed by Azerbaijani fire on 7 February 2018.\nThree civilian volunteers were killed in a demining operation in Nagorno-Karabakh on 29 March 2018.\nA Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed by Azerbaijani fire on 9 April 2018. A Nagorno-Karabakh soldier was killed in a firefight with Azeri forces on 10 June 2018. In September 2018 a soldier of the Armenian Army was killed by Azeri gunfire whilst serving at a border post. In the same month, two Nagorno-Karabakh soldiers were killed by the Azeri army.\n\nAlthough no exact casualty figures exist, by 2009, as many as 3,000 people, mostly soldiers, had been killed, according to most observers.\nIn 2008, the fighting became more intense and frequent. With 72 deaths recorded throughout the year, 2014 became the bloodiest since the war ended. According to the Union of Relatives of the Artsakh War Missing in Action Soldiers, as of 2014, 239 Karabakhi soldiers remain officially listed as unaccounted for.\nBetween 1 and 5 April 2016, heavy fighting along the Nagorno-Karabakh frontline left 27 Armenian and 28 Azerbaijani soldiers dead. 26 Armenian soldiers were also missing. In addition, six civilians (four Armenian and two Azerbaijani) were killed.\n"}
{"id": "1434656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1434656", "title": "National Theatre (Prague)", "text": "National Theatre (Prague)\n\nThe National Theatre () in Prague is known as the alma mater of Czech opera, and as the national monument of Czech history and art.\n\nThe National Theatre belongs to the most important Czech cultural institutions, with a rich artistic tradition, which helped to preserve and develop the most important features of the nation–the Czech language and a sense for a Czech musical and dramatic way of thinking.\n\nToday the National Theatre consists of three artistic ensembles: opera, ballet and drama. They alternate in their performances in the historic building of the National Theatre, in the Theatre of the Estates and in the Kolowrat Theatre. All three artistic ensembles select their repertoire both from classical heritage, and modern authors.\n\nThe cornerstone of the National Theatre was laid on 16 May 1868, but the idea of building a theatre dates back to the autumn of 1844 at the gatherings of patriots in Prague. An application was submitted by František Palacký to the Provincial Committee of the Bohemian Assembly on 29 January 1845, requesting \"the privilege of constructing, furnishing, maintaining and managing\" of an independent Czech theatre. The application was granted in April 1845, but it was not until six years later – in April 1851 – that the founding Society for the Establishment of a Czech National Theatre in Prague made the first public appeal to start a collection. A year later the proceeds went toward the purchase of land belonging to a former salt works covering an area of not quite which determined the magnificent site of the theatre on the banks of the river Vltava facing the panorama of Prague Castle, but at the same time the cramped area and trapezium shape posed challenging problems for the designers of the building.\nThe era of von Bach absolutism brought to a halt preparations for the envisaged theatre and supported the concept of a modest provisional building, which was erected on the south side of the theatre parcel by architect Vojtěch Ignác Ullmann and opened on 18 November 1862. The building of the Provisional Theatre then became a constituent part of the final version of the National Theatre; its outside cladding is visible to this day in the elevated section of the rear part of the building, and the interior layout was only obliterated following the latest reconstruction of the National Theatre in 1977 – 1983. Simultaneously with the realization of this minimal programme asserted by F.L. Rieger and the Provincial Committee, the young progressive advocates of the original ambitious concept of the building (Sladkovský, Tyrš, Neruda, Hálek) launched an offensive. In 1865 these men attained leading positions in the Society and requested the 33-year-old professor of civil engineering at the Prague Technical College, architect Josef Zítek, to draft a design for the National Theatre. He then came out on top in a later-declared open competition, and in 1867 construction work began. On 16 May 1868, the foundation stone was laid, and in November the foundations were completed. In 1875, the new building reached its full height and in 1877 the theatre was roofed over. As of 1873 there was an ongoing competition for the interior decoration of the building, the scenario of which had been elaborated by a special commission under the leadership of Sladkovský. On the one hand, the themes were in the spirit of the Neo-Renaissance concept of a classic building. On the other hand, they were inspired by the current enthusiasm for Slavonic mythology and the stories of the Manuscripts; both of these concepts were based on Josef Mánes' paintings and connected with the contemporary style of romantic landscape painting (also linked to Czech history). They provided the fundamental ideology guiding artistic expression, which today is described as the art of the generation of the National Theatre.\n\nThe theatre includes a triga (a three-horse quadriga) and 10 exterior allegorical sculptures by Bohuslav Schnirch, 10 more exterior pieces by Antonín Wagner, the stone pieces by Max Verich and an interior sculpted pediment group over the proscenium arch by Schnirch.\n\nThe National Theatre was opened for the first time on 11 June 1881, to honour the visit of Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria. Bedřich Smetana's opera \"Libuše\" was given its world premiere, conducted by Adolf Čech. Another 11 performances were presented after that. Then the theatre was closed down to enable the completion of the finishing touches. While this work was under way a fire broke out on 12 August 1881, which destroyed the copper dome, the auditorium and the stage of the theatre.\n\nThe fire was seen as a national catastrophe and was met with a mighty wave of determination to take up a new collection: Within 47 days a million guldens were collected. This national enthusiasm, however, did not correspond to the behind-the-scenes battles that flared up following the catastrophe. Architect Josef Zítek was no longer in the running, and his pupil architect Josef Schulz was summoned to work on the reconstruction. He was the one to assert the expansion of the edifice to include the block of flats belonging to Dr. Polák that was situated behind the building of the Provisional Theatre. He made this building a part of the National Theatre and simultaneously changed somewhat the area of the auditorium to improve visibility. He did, however, take into account with utmost sensitivity the style of Zítek's design, and so he managed to merge three buildings by various architects to form an absolute unity of style.\n\nThe interior artwork was done by Mikoláš Aleš and František Ženíšek. The building of the National Theatre was inaugurated on 18 November 1883. The building, with perfect technical equipment (electric illumination, a steel-constructed stage), served without any extensive modifications for almost one hundred years. It was only on 1 April 1977, following a performance of the \"Lantern\" by Jirásek, that the theatre was closed down for six years.\n\nArchitect Zdeněk Vávra was appointed to take charge of the overall reconstruction work. This extensive project was combined with the completion of work on the entire setting of the theatre. The work was completed to meet an important deadline, which was the date of the 100th anniversary of the opening of the National Theatre: 18 November 1983. On that day the theatre was handed over to the public again with a performance of Smetana’s \"Libuše\".\n\nThe historic building, noted for its beautiful architecture, also includes an annex of modern design which contains offices and the main box office. Today it functions as the main stage of the three artistic ensembles of the National Theatre: drama, opera and ballet.\n\nIn 1989 the general director of the National Theatre, composer Jiří Pauer was dismissed from his post because of his support for the policies of the former Communist Czechoslovak government. Pauer locked all staff out of the National and Smetana theatres on 17 November 1989 to prevent members of the opera, ballet and drama companies from staging protest performances. After a three-week strike Pauer was replaced by Ivo Žídek.\n\nAt first the National Theatre was supported by a private guild of individuals with a director managing its affairs on behalf of the guild. Lack of subsidy caused some financial and artistic difficulties, but without long-term damage to the growth or status of the institution. In 1900 the contract for the guild which had steered the theatre through its early years was not renewed by the regional government, and as a result of growing dissatisfaction with the artistic levels, the National Theatre transferred its management to a new National Theatre Company. In addition, most of the people associated with the guild were considered to be conservative in outlook, while the new Company were liberals, receptive to fresh ideas. The composer Karel Kovařovic was made opera director, and as a conductor, his work became noticeable in improvements in the orchestra, chorus and solo ensemble. He also attracted leading singers to the ensemble, such as Karel Burian (later a Wagnerian tenor at Bayreuth), Otakar Mařák, Emil Pollert, and Gabriela Horvatova. After the death of Kovařovic in 1920, Otakar Ostrčil took over, continuing the progressive artistic direction and leading a thorough renovation of the stagings. He began with the first performance of \"The Excursions of Mr. Brouček\", and mounted Berg's Wozzeck immediately after its premiere, leading to a scandal and the threat of his dismissal.\n\nThe National Theatre is overseen by the director, and the advisory body of the Council of the National Theatre. The advisory board has 11 to 13 members, who are appointed and dismissed by the director. Current members of the council include: JUDr. Pavel Smutný, Prof. Dr. Dadja Altenburg Pešta Kohl, Ing. Petr Dvořák, Ing. Jiří Maceška, JUDr. Vlasta Formánková, Ing. Bohdan Wojnar, Prof. Ing. Jiří Drahoš, DrSc., dr.h.c., Pavel Kohout, Ing. Oldřich Černoch CSc. and Ing. Peter Palečka.\n\nOn 4 May 2005, Komerční banka signed an agreement with the National Theatre in Prague to annually honor the most prominent acts performed at the Czech National Theatre in overall three categories – ballet, drama and opera.\nThe recipients of the KOBANADI Award (KOBANADI = KOmerční BAnka + NArodní DIvadlo) receive a statuette designed by the academic Jaroslav Róna, 100,000 Czech koruna (approx. €4,000 as of March 2011). The first ceremony was held on 26 October 2006 at the stage of the National Theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "478962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478962", "title": "Overfishing", "text": "Overfishing\n\nOverfishing is the removal of a species of fish from a body of water at a rate that the species cannot replenish in time, resulting in those species either becoming depleted or very underpopulated in that given area. Overfishing has spread all over the globe and has been present for centuries.\n\nOverfishing can occur in water bodies of any sizes, such as ponds, rivers, lakes or oceans, and can result in resource depletion, reduced biological growth rates and low biomass levels. Sustained overfishing can lead to critical depensation, where the fish population is no longer able to sustain itself. Some forms of overfishing, such as the overfishing of sharks, has led to the upset of entire marine ecosystems.\n\nThe ability of a fishery to recover from overfishing depends on whether the ecosystem's conditions are suitable for the recovery. Dramatic changes in species composition can result in an ecosystem shift, where other equilibrium energy flows involve species compositions different from those that had been present before the depletion of the original fish stock. For example, once trout have been overfished, carp might take over in a way that makes it impossible for the trout to re-establish a breeding population.\n\nThe word “fishing” means different things to different people. For some, it might mean sitting in a boat with friends or family, holding a pole, trying to catch that big fish for dinner or a trophy for the wall. For others, fishing is their livelihood, like resort owners, or tackle and bait shop owners. The threat of losing this past-time is a possibility because of over-fishing. Over-fishing is the act of fishing excessively, thus reducing fish species faster than they can be replaced, invasive species invading native fish territories, and environmental controls such as pollution, and global warming. The Department of Natural Resources is responsible for enforcing legal fishing limits on lakes and monitoring the population of fish in the lake. When the population is low, the DNR restocks the lake with fish from fisheries. The health of these fisheries is reliant on those environmental controls. \n\nOverfishing has stripped many fisheries around the world of their stocks. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization estimated in a 2018 report that 33.1% of world fish stocks are subject to overfishing. Significant overfishing has been observed in pre-industrial times. In particular, the overfishing of the western Atlantic Ocean from the earliest days of European colonisation of the Americas has been well documented.\n\nDaniel Pauly, a fisheries scientist known for pioneering work on the human impacts on global fisheries, has commented:\nExamples of overfishing exist in areas such as the North Sea, the Grand Banks of Newfoundland and the East China Sea. In these locations, overfishing has not only proved disastrous to fish stocks but also to the fishing communities relying on the harvest. Like other extractive industries such as forestry and hunting, fisheries are susceptible to economic interaction between ownership or stewardship and sustainability, otherwise known as the tragedy of the commons.\n\n\n\n\nSeveral countries are now effectively managing their fisheries. Examples include Iceland and New Zealand. The United States has turned many of its fisheries around from being in a highly depleted state.\n\nAccording to a 2008 UN report, the world's fishing fleets are losing US$50 billion each year through depleted stocks and poor fisheries management. The report, produced jointly by the World Bank and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), asserts that half the world's fishing fleet could be scrapped with no change in catch. In addition, the biomass of global fish stocks have been allowed to run down to the point where it is no longer possible to catch the amount of fish that could be caught. Increased incidence of schistosomiasis in Africa has been linked to declines of fish species that eat the snails carrying the disease-causing parasites. Massive growth of jellyfish populations threaten fish stocks, as they compete with fish for food, eat fish eggs, and poison or swarm fish, and can survive in oxygen depleted environments where fish cannot; they wreak massive havoc on commercial fisheries. Overfishing eliminates a major jellyfish competitor and predator exacerbating the jellyfish population explosion. Both climate change and a restructuring of the ecosystem have been found to be major roles in an increase in jellyfish population in the Irish Sea in the 1990s.\n\nThere are three recognized types of biological overfishing: growth overfishing, recruit overfishing and ecosystem overfishing.\n\nGrowth overfishing occurs when fish are harvested at an average size that is smaller than the size that would produce the maximum yield per recruit. A recruit is an individual that makes it to maturity, or into the limits specified by a fishery, which are usually size or age. This makes the total yield less than it would be if the fish were allowed to grow to an appropriate size. It can be countered by reducing fishing mortality to lower levels and increasing the average size of harvested fish to a size that will allow maximum yield per recruit.\n\nRecruitment overfishing occurs when the mature adult population (spawning biomass) is depleted to a level where it no longer has the reproductive capacity to replenish itselfthere are not enough adults to produce offspring. Increasing the spawning stock biomass to a target level is the approach taken by managers to restore an overfished population to sustainable levels. This is generally accomplished by placing moratoriums, quotas and minimum size limits on a fish population.\n\nEcosystem overfishing occurs when the balance of the ecosystem is altered by overfishing. With declines in the abundance of large predatory species, the abundance of small forage type increases causing a shift in the balance of the ecosystem towards smaller fish species.\n\nThe notion of overfishing hinges on what is meant by an acceptable level of fishing. More precise biological and bioeconomic terms define acceptable level as follows:\n\nA model proposed in 2010 for predicting acceptable levels of fishing is the Harvest Control Rule (HCR), which is a set of tools and protocols with which management has some direct control of harvest rates and strategies in relation to predicting stock status, and long-term maximum sustainable yields. Constant catch and constant fishing mortality are two types of simple harvest control rules.\n\nFishing capacity can also be defined using an input or output orientation.\n\n\n\nTechnical efficiency of each vessel of the fleet is assumed necessary to attain this maximum catch. The degree of capacity utilization results from the comparison of the actual level of output (input) and the capacity output (input) of a vessel or a fleet.\n\nWith present and forecast world population levels it is not possible to solve the over fishing issue; however, there are mitigation measures that can save selected fisheries and forestall the collapse of others.\n\nIn order to meet the problems of overfishing, a precautionary approach and Harvest Control Rule (HCR) management principles have been introduced in the main fisheries around the world. The Traffic Light color convention introduces sets of rules based on predefined critical values, which could be adjusted as more information is gained.\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea treaty deals with aspects of over fishing in articles 61, 62, and 65.\n\nAccording to some observers, overfishing can be viewed as an example of the tragedy of the commons; appropriate solutions would therefore promote property rights through, for instance, privatization and fish farming. Daniel K. Benjamin, in \"Fisheries are Classic Example of the \"Tragedy of the Commons\"\", cites research by Grafton, Squires and Fox to support the idea that privatization can solve the overfishing problem:\n\nAnother possible solution, at least for some areas, is quotas, so fishermen can only legally take a certain amount of fish. A more radical possibility is declaring certain areas of the sea \"no-go zones\" and make fishing there strictly illegal, so the fish in that area have time to recover and repopulate.\n\nControlling consumer behavior and demand is a key in mitigating action. Worldwide, a number of initiatives emerged to provide consumers with information regarding the conservation status of the seafood available to them. The Guide to Good Fish Guides lists a number of these.\n\nMany regulatory measures are available for controlling overfishing. These measures include fishing quotas, bag limits, licensing, closed seasons, size limits and the creation of marine reserves and other marine protected areas.\n\nA model of the interaction between fish and fishers showed that when an area is closed to fishers, but there are no catch regulations such as individual transferable quotas, fish catches are temporarily increased but overall fish biomass is reduced, resulting in the opposite outcome from the one desired for fisheries. Thus, a displacement of the fleet from one locality to another will generally have little effect if the same quota is taken. As a result, management measures such as temporary closures or establishing a marine protected area of fishing areas are ineffective when not combined with individual fishing quotas. An inherent problem with quotas is that fish populations vary from year to year. A study has found that fish populations rise dramatically after stormy years due to more nutrients reaching the surface and therefore greater primary production. To fish sustainably, quotas need to be changed each year to account for fish population.\n\nIndividual transferable quotas (ITQs) are fishery rationalization instruments defined under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act as limited access permits to harvest quantities of fish. Fisheries scientists decide the optimal amount of fish (total allowable catch) to be harvested in a certain fishery. The decision considers carrying capacity, regeneration rates and future values. Under ITQs, members of a fishery are granted rights to a percentage of the total allowable catch that can be harvested each year. These quotas can be fished, bought, sold, or leased allowing for the least cost vessels to be used. ITQs are used in New Zealand, Australia, Iceland, Canada, and the United States.\n\nIn 2008, a large-scale study of fisheries that used ITQs compared to ones that didn't provided strong evidence that ITQs can help to prevent collapses and restore fisheries that appear to be in decline.\n\nChina bans fishing in the South China Sea for a period each year.\n\nSeveral scientists have called for an end to subsidies paid to deep sea fisheries. In international waters beyond the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zones of coastal countries, many fisheries are unregulated, and fishing fleets plunder the depths with state-of-the-art technology. In a few hours, massive nets weighing up to 15 tons, dragged along the bottom by deep-water trawlers, can destroy deep-sea corals and sponge beds that have taken centuries or millennia to grow. The trawlers can target orange roughy, grenadiers, or sharks. These fish are usually long-lived and late maturing, and their populations take decades, even centuries to recover.\n\nFisheries scientist Daniel Pauly and economist Ussif Rashid Sumaila have examined subsidies paid to bottom trawl fleets around the world. They found that US$152 million per year are paid to deep-sea fisheries. Without these subsidies, global deep-sea fisheries would operate at a loss of $50 million a year. A great deal of the subsidies paid to deep-sea trawlers is to subsidize the large amount of fuel required to travel beyond the 200-mile limit and drag weighted nets.\n\n\"There is surely a better way for governments to spend money than by paying subsidies to a fleet that burns 1.1 billion litres of fuel annually to maintain paltry catches of old growth fish from highly vulnerable stocks, while destroying their habitat in the process\" – \"Pauly\".\n\n\"Eliminating global subsidies would render these fleets economically unviable and would relieve tremendous pressure on over-fishing and vulnerable deep-sea ecosystems\" – \"Sumaila\".\nFishing techniques may be altered to minimize bycatch and reduce impacts on marine habitats. These techniques include using varied gear types depending on target species and habitat type. For example, a net with larger holes will allow undersized fish to avoid capture. A turtle excluder device (TED) allows sea turtles and other megafauna to escape from shrimp trawls. Avoiding fishing in spawning grounds may allow fish stocks to rebuild by giving adults a chance to reproduce.\n\nAquaculture involves the farming of fish in captivity. This approach effectively privatizes fish stocks and creates incentives for farmers to conserve their stocks. It also reduces environmental impact. However, farming carnivorous fish, such as salmon, does not always reduce pressure on wild fisheries, since carnivorous farmed fish are usually fed fishmeal and fish oil extracted from wild forage fish.\n\nAquaculture played a minor role in the harvesting of marine organisms until the 1970s. Growth in aquaculture increased rapidly in 1990s when the rate of wild capture plateaued. Aquaculture now provides approximately half of all harvested aquatic organisms. Aquaculture production rates continue to grow while wild harvest remains steady.\n\nFish farming can enclose the entire breeding cycle of the fish, with fish being bred in captivity. Some fish prove difficult to breed in captivity and can be caught in the wild as juveniles and brought into captivity to increase their weight. With scientific progress more species are being made to breed in captivity. This was the case with southern bluefin tuna, which were first bred in captivity in 2009.\n\nSustainable seafood is a movement that has gained momentum as more people become aware of overfishing and environmentally destructive fishing methods. Sustainable seafood is seafood from either fished or farmed sources that can maintain or increase production in the future without jeopardizing the ecosystems from which it was acquired. In general, slow-growing fish that reproduce late in life, such as orange roughy, are vulnerable to overfishing. Seafood species that grow quickly and breed young, such as anchovies and sardines, are much more resistant to overfishing. Several organizations, including the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), and Friend of the Sea, certify seafood fisheries as sustainable.\n\nThe Marine Stewardship Council has developed an environmental standard for sustainable and well-managed fisheries. Environmentally responsible fisheries management and practices are rewarded with the use of its blue product ecolabel. Consumers concerned about overfishing and its consequences are increasingly able to choose seafood products that have been independently assessed against the MSC's environmental standard. This enables consumers to play a part in reversing the decline of fish stocks. As of February 2012, over 100 fisheries around the world have been independently assessed and certified as meeting the MSC standard. Their where-to-buy page lists the currently available certified seafood. As of February 2012 over 13,000 MSC-labelled products are available in 74 countries around the world. Fish & Kids is an MSC project to teach schoolchildren about marine environmental issues, including overfishing.\n\nThe Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch Program, although not an official certifying body like the MSC, also provides guidance on the sustainability of certain fish species. Some seafood restaurants have begun to offer more sustainable seafood options. The Seafood Choices Alliance is an organization whose members include chefs that serve sustainable seafood at their establishments. In the US, the Sustainable Fisheries Act defines sustainable practices through national standards. Although there is no official certifying body like the MSC, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has created FishWatch to help guide concerned consumers to sustainable seafood choices. See also a guide to good fish guides.\n\nIn September 2016, a partnership of Google and Oceana and Skytruth introduced Global Fishing Watch, a website designed to assist citizens of the globe in monitoring fishing activities.\n\nThe fishing industry has a strong financial incentive to oppose some measures aimed at improving the sustainability of fish stocks. Recreational fisherman also have an interest in maintaining access to fish stocks. This leads to extensive lobbying that can block or water down government policies intended to prevent overfishing.\n\nOutside of countries' exclusive economic zones, fishing is difficult to control. Large oceangoing fishing boats are free to exploit fish stocks at will.\n\nIn waters that are the subject of territorial disputes, countries may actively encourage overfishing. A notable example is the cod wars where Britain used its navy to protect its trawlers fishing in Iceland's exclusive economic zone. Fish are highly transitory. Many species will freely move through different jurisdictions. The conservation efforts of one country can then be exploited by another.\n\nWhile governments can create regulations to control people's behaviours this can be undermined by illegal fishing activity. Estimates of the size of the illegal catch range from 11 to 26 million tonnes, which represents 14-33% of the world's reported catch. Illegal fishing can take many forms. In some developing countries, large numbers of poor people are dependent on fishing. It can prove difficult to regulate this kind of overfishing, especially for weak governments. Even in regulated environments, illegal fishing may occur. While industrial fishing is often effectively controlled, smaller scale and recreational fishermen can often break regulations such as bag limits and seasonal closures. Fisherman can also easily fish illegally by doing things such as underreporting the amount of fish they caught or reporting that they caught one type of fish while actually catching another. There is also a large problem with surveillance of illegal fishing activity. In 2001, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), passed the International Plan of Action to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing (IPOA-IUU). This is an agreement with the intention to stop port states from allowing boats to dock that participated in illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing. It also gives details for port states on effective measures of inspecting and reporting illegal fishing. Some illegal fishing takes place on an industrial scale with financed commercial operations.\n\nThe fishing capacity problem is not only related to the conservation of fish stocks but also to the sustainability of fishing activity. Causes of the fishing problem can be found in the property rights regime of fishing resources. Overexploitation and rent dissipation of fishermen arise in open-access fisheries as was shown in Gordon.\n\nIn open-access resources like fish stocks, in the absence of a system like individual transferable quotas, the impossibility of excluding others provokes the fishermen who want to increase catch to do so effectively by taking someone else' share, intensifying competition. This tragedy of the commons provokes a capitalization process that leads them to increase their costs until they are equal to their revenue, dissipating their rent completely.\n\nThere is always disagreement between fishermen and government scientists... Imagine an overfished area of the sea in the shape of a hockey field with nets at either end. The few fish left therein would gather around the goals because fish like structured habitats. Scientists would survey the entire field, make lots of unsuccessful hauls, and conclude that it contains few fish. The fishermen would make a beeline to the goals, catch the fish around them, and say the scientists do not know what they are talking about. The subjective impression the fishermen get is always that there's lots of fish - because they only go to places that still have them... fisheries scientists survey and compare entire areas, not only the productive fishing spots. – \"Fisheries scientist Daniel Pauly\"\n\nMN DNR. (2018). Improving fishing: Adjust regulations - Division of Fisheries - Minnesota DNR - MN Department of Natural Resources. Retrieved from https://www.dnr.state.mn.us/fisheries/management/regs.html\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31497297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31497297", "title": "Princess Amelia (1634 ship)", "text": "Princess Amelia (1634 ship)\n\nThe Princess Amelia was a Dutch merchant ship of 600 tons (bm) built 1634, of 38 guns in the service of the Dutch West India Company.\n\nDuring its 1647 arrival to and departure from New Netherland, it was commanded by Jan Claesen Bol, who was 28 at the time. The ship carried Petrus Stuyvesant, the new Director-General of New Netherland, his wife Judith Bayard, and Stuyvesant’s councilors to Manhattan, where they landed May 1647. During its time in port, Captain Bol sat in council with Stuyvesant and others in New Amsterdam.\n\nWhen it sailed from Manhattan to Amsterdam on 16 August 1647, it was loaded with 200,000 pounds of dyewood from Curaçao and around 14,000 beaver pelts. It was also carrying 107 passengers and crew, including the recently fired Director Willem Kieft for his return to Amsterdam to defend himself against the charges leveled by among others, the Rev. Everardus Bogardus (the colony’s principal Dutch Reformed dominie), and banished colonists Jochem Pietersen Kuyter and Cornelis Melyn, who would also have to answer charges of insubordination for their role in Kieft’s ouster. The passengers also included numerous Dutch West India Company soldiers who had recently arrived in Manhattan from Brazil and the Caribbean.\n\nOn 27 September 1647, Captain Bol mistook the Bristol Channel for the English Channel and ran the ship aground off Mumbles Point, Wales, near Swansea, Wales, () where the ship broke apart. Twenty-one of the 107 passengers survived, including Kuyter and Melyn, who later reported that Kieft had acknowledged his administrative mistakes before drowning. The Rev. Bogardus, Melyn's son, and most of the soldiers also drowned. Insurance claims and lawsuits over the loss claims lasted for years.\n\nEarly popular sources describe the event thus:\n\nSome of the furs on board came ashore in Swansea Bay and were sold off in their bundles for bargain prices. Kuyter and Melyn were found not guilty of insubordination and later returned to their families in New Amsterdam. Two cannon, small arms, and silver coins were salvaged from the wreck by Squire Mansel but were lost on Rhossili beach before they got to his home of Henllys, Llandewi, Gower. \n"}
{"id": "1005874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1005874", "title": "Principle", "text": "Principle\n\nA principle is a concept or value that is a guide for behavior or evaluation. In law, it is a rule that has to be or usually is to be followed, or can be desirably followed, or is an inevitable consequence of something, such as the laws observed in nature or the way that a system is constructed. The principles of such a system are understood by its users as the essential characteristics of the system, or reflecting system's designed purpose, and the effective operation or use of which would be impossible if any one of the principles was to be ignored. A system may be explicitly based on and implemented from a document of principles as was done in IBM's 360/370 \"Principles of Operation\".\n\nExamples of principles are, entropy in a number of fields, least action in physics, those in descriptive comprehensive and fundamental law: doctrines or assumptions forming normative rules of conduct, separation of church and state in statecraft, the central dogma of molecular biology, fairness in ethics, etc.\n\nIn common English, it is a substantive and collective term referring to rule governance, the absence of which, being \"unprincipled\", is considered a character defect. It may also be used to declare that a reality has diverged from some ideal or norm as when something is said to be true only \"in principle\" but not in fact.\n\nA principle represents values that orient and rule the conduct of persons in a particular society. To \"act on principle\" is to act in accordance with one's moral ideals. Principles are absorbed in childhood through a process of socialization. There is a presumption of liberty of individuals that is restrained. Exemplary principles include First, do no harm, the golden rule and the doctrine of the mean.\n\nIt represents a set of values that inspire the written norms that organize the life of a society submitting to the powers of an authority, generally the State. The law establishes a legal obligation, in a coercive way; it therefore acts as principle conditioning of the action that limits the liberty of the individuals. See, for examples, the territorial principle, homestead principle, and precautionary principle.\n\nArchimedes principle, relating buoyancy to the weight of displaced water, is an early example of a law in science. Another early one developed by Malthus is the \"population principle\", now called the Malthusian principle. Freud also wrote on principles, especially the reality principle necessary to keep the id and pleasure principle in check. Biologists use the principle of priority and principle of Binominal nomenclature for precision in naming species. There are many principles observed in physics, notably in cosmology which observes the mediocrity principle, the anthropic principle, the principle of relativity and the cosmological principle. Other well-known principles include the uncertainty principle in quantum mechanics and the pigeonhole principle and superposition principle in mathematics.\n\nThe principle states that every event has a rational explanation. The principle has a variety of expressions, all of which are perhaps best summarized by the following:\n\nHowever, one realizes that in every sentence there is a direct relation between the predicate and the subject. To say that \"the Earth is round\", corresponds to a direct relation between the subject and the predicate.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, “It is impossible for the same thing to belong and not to belong at the same time to the same thing and in the same respect.” For example, it is not possible that in exactly the same moment and place, it rains and doesn't rain.\n\nThe principle of the excluding third or \"principium tertium exclusum\" is a principle of the traditional logic formulated canonically by Leibniz as: either \"A\" is \"B\" or \"A\" isn't \"B\". It is read the following way: either \"P\" is true, or its denial ¬\"P\" is.\nIt is also known as \"tertium non datur\" ('A third (thing) is not). Classically it is considered to be one of the most important fundamental principles or laws of thought (along with the principles of identity, no contradiction and sufficient reason).\n"}
{"id": "494392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494392", "title": "Public holidays in Paraguay", "text": "Public holidays in Paraguay\n\nThe following are national holidays in Paraguay\n\n+ Fixed holidays: all holidays in Paraguay can be moved by presidential decree, but there has to be a presidential decree for such a change. The following holidays are the exception (dates are fixed and to not change): January 1st, May 14, December 8, December 25, Maundy Thursday and Good Friday.\n"}
{"id": "645220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645220", "title": "Reverdy Johnson", "text": "Reverdy Johnson\n\nReverdy Johnson (May 21, 1796February 10, 1876) was a statesman and jurist from Maryland. He gained fame as a defense attorney, defending notables such as Sanford of the Dred Scott case, Maj. Gen. Fitz John Porter at his court-martial, and Mary Surratt, alleged conspirator in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. A former Whig, he was a strong supporter of the Union war effort. At first he opposed wartime efforts to abolish slavery until 1864, and supported 13th Amendment.\n\nJohnson was born on May 21, 1796 in Annapolis, Maryland. He was the son of a distinguished Maryland lawyer and politician, John Johnson (1770–1824), who served as Attorney General of Maryland from 1806 to 1811 and later Chancellor of Maryland, and Deborah (née Ghieselen) Johnson (1773–1847). His younger brothers were John Johnson Jr. (1798–1856), the last Chancellor of Maryland, and George Johnson (1817–1892).\n\nHe graduated from St. John's College in 1812 and then studied law. He was admitted to the bar in 1815.\n\nIn 1817, Johnson moved to Baltimore, where he became a legal colleague of Luther Martin, William Pinkney and Roger B. Taney, the Attorney General and later Chief Justice of the United States from 1835 until 1864. He was appointed chief commissioner of insolvent debtors of Maryland in 1817. From 1821 until 1825 he served in the Maryland State Senate and then returned to practice law for two decades.\n\nJohnson, along with Judge John Glenn and Evan Ellicott were responsible for exacerbating the Baltimore bank crisis of 1835. Mobs of angry depositors attacked and damaged his home facing Battle Monument Square on the northwest corner of North Calvert and East Fayette Streets, just south of the Baltimore City Courthouse (site of the future enlarged Third Courthouse of 1899–1900). His home was previously the site of the first brick house built in Baltimore Town for Edward Fortrell, in 1741, and later replaced by the mansion/townhouse built for James Buchanan in 1799, sold to Johnson. Following the collapse of the Union Bank of Maryland, Johnson obstructed efforts to obtain a fair and objective accounting of the bank's assets in order to maintain his personal fortune. He falsely accused Evan Poultney and Thomas Ellicott of misconduct in order to create a smokescreen intending to obscure his own misconduct.\n\nFrom 1845 to 1849, Johnson represented Maryland in the United States Senate as a Whig.\n\nFrom his confirmation by the Senate in March 1849 until July 1850, Johnson was Attorney General of the United States under President Zachary Taylor. He resigned that position soon after Millard Fillmore took office. While U.S. Attorney General, he was allowed to help Virginians Charles W. Russell and Alexander H.H. Stuart defend the Wheeling Suspension Bridge in his private capacity, that bridge also connecting two sections of the National Road as the first bridge crossing a major river west of the Appalachian Mountains. Although the plaintiffs technically won twice based on their argument that the bridge obstructed a navigable river, the bridge was never demolished (only repaired after wind damage) and further bridges were then constructed, including one over the Mississippi River at Rock Island in 1856.(which also led to litigation).\n\nIn November 1856, a large crowd, armed with guns and clubs, burned an effigy of Johnson on the railing of the Battle Monument in front of his house to protest a speech he made in New York against President Fillmore.\n\nA conservative Democrat, Johnson supported Stephen A. Douglas in the presidential election of 1860. He represented the slave-owning defendant in the controversial 1857 case \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\". However, Johnson was personally opposed to slavery and became a key figure in the effort to keep Maryland from seceding from the Union during the American Civil War.\n\nHe served as a Maryland delegate to the Peace Convention of 1861 and from 1861 to 1862 served in the Maryland House of Delegates. During this time he represented Maj. Gen. Fitz John Porter at his court-martial, arguing that Porter's distinguished record of service ought to put him beyond question. The officers on the court-martial, all handpicked by Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, voted to convict Porter of cowardice and disobedience.\n\nAfter the capture of New Orleans, President Abraham Lincoln commissioned Johnson to revise the decisions of the military commandant, General Benjamin F. Butler, in regard to foreign governments, and reversed all those decisions to the entire satisfaction of the administration. After the war, reflecting the diverse points of view held by his fellow statesmen, Johnson argued for a gentler Reconstruction effort than that advocated by the Radical Republicans.\n\nIn 1863, he again took a seat in the United States Senate, serving through 1868. \"The antislavery amendment caught Johnson's eye, however, because it offered an indisputable constitutional solution to the problem of slavery.\" In 1864, in a speech on the Senate floor, Johnson \"cut loose from all Pro-Slavery associations by a bold declaration of strongest Anti Slavery sentiments,\" speaking in favor of the immediate and universal emancipation, and advocated the proposed amendment to the Constitution forever prohibiting slavery in the United States.\n\nIn 1865, he defended Mary Surratt before a military tribunal. Surratt was convicted and executed for plotting and aiding Lincoln's assassination. In 1866, he was a delegate to the National Union Convention which attempted to build support for President Johnson. Senator Johnson's report on the proceedings of the convention was entered into the record of President Johnson's impeachment trial. In the Senate, he also served on the Joint Committee on Reconstruction which drafted the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but he voted against passage of the amendment.\n\nIn 1866, he addressed the Senate regarding the appointment of provisional governors in the Southern States. In 1867, Johnson voted for the Reconstruction Act of 1867, the only Democrat to vote for a Reconstruction measure in 1866 or 1867.\n\nOn June 12, 1868, he was appointed minister to the United Kingdom, beginning his term on September 14, 1868. While in England, he was criticized for fraternizing with the Lairds, Wharncliffes, Roebucks, and Gregorios, of England, which was considered a blunder in diplomacy.\n\nSoon after his arrival in England negotiated the Johnson-Clarendon Treaty for the settlement of disputes arising out of the Civil War, including the \"Alabama\" Claims. The Senate, however, refused to advise and consent to ratification, and he returned home on the accession of General Ulysses S. Grant to the presidency.\n\nAgain resuming his legal practice, he defended Ku Klux Klan members against indictments brought under the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871.\n\nEven though out of office, Johnson continued to offer his opinion on public matters. In December 1874, he wrote to \"The New York Times\", stating that he hoped that after the next Presidential Election, \"the General Government will thereafter be brought back into the part of the Constitution, that the limits of its powers will be maintained, that the reserved authority of the States will be recognized, and that the rights of its citizens will be faithfully preserved.\" In December 1875, he wrote a letter to the \"Baltimore Sun\" discussing the potential impact of England's purchase of a controlling interest in the Suez Canal.\n\nIn early 1876, Johnson was in Annapolis arguing the case of \"Baker v. Frick\" in the Court of Appeals and was a guest at the Maryland Governor's Mansion. On February 10, during a dinner party at the mansion, he fell near a basement door, possibly after tripping, and was killed instantly after hitting his head on a sharp corner of the mansion's granite base course and then again on the cobblestone pavement.\n\nOn November 16, 1819, Johnson married Mary Mackall Bowie (1801–1873), the sister of Rep. Thomas Fielder Bowie and the daughter of Thomas Contee Bowie (1771–1813) and Mary Mackall (née Bowie) Wootton (1776–1825), who were third cousins. Her mother was the widow of Turnor Wootton (d. 1797), whom she married in 1794 and had one child with, William Turner Wootton, and was the daughter of Maryland Gov. Robert Bowie (1750–1818). Together, Reverdy and Mary had 15 children, of which five daughters and three sons survived, including:\n\n\nAfter his death on February 10, 1876, Johnson was buried at the Greenmount Cemetery in East Baltimore. Johnson had been the last surviving member of the Taylor Cabinet.\n\nIn the 2011 film \"The Conspirator\", Johnson is portrayed by actor Tom Wilkinson.\n\n\n\n. Includes \"Guide to Research Collections\" where his papers are located.\n"}
{"id": "54142753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54142753", "title": "Stockwell ghost", "text": "Stockwell ghost\n\nThe Stockwell ghost also known as the Stockwell poltergeist was an alleged case of poltergeist disturbance in Stockwell that occurred in 1772. It was later exposed as a hoax.\n\nOn 6 January 1772 at the house of Mrs Golding, various cups, saucers and stone plates were reported to have fallen from a shelf to the ground and food was thrown across the room. Violent noises were also heard around the house. Golding decided to take refuge with her neighbour but the disturbances continued. It was noted that the disturbances only took place when her servant Anne Robinson was present. She was dismissed and the disturbances ceased. Despite the suspicious circumstances surrounding Robinson, the case was considered for many years by the public to be the result of poltergeist activity or witchcraft.\n\nWilliam Hone in his \"The Every Day Book\" (1825) revealed that Ann Robinson later admitted she had faked the phenomena. She had attached horsehairs and wires to move the crockery, thrown the other objects and made the noises herself. The Stockwell ghost was sensationalized by Catherine Crowe in \"The Night-Side of Nature\" (1848) as a genuine poltergeist incident. She had failed to cite the confession of fraud that was documented by Hone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2204271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2204271", "title": "Survivor guilt", "text": "Survivor guilt\n\nSurvivor guilt (or survivor's guilt; also called survivor syndrome or survivor's syndrome) is a mental condition that occurs when a person believes they have done something wrong by surviving a traumatic event when others did not, often feeling self-guilt. It may be found among survivors of rape, murder, terrorism, combat, natural disasters, epidemics, among the friends and family of those who have died by suicide, and in non-mortal situations. The experience and manifestation of survivor's guilt will depend on an individual's psychological profile. When the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders IV\" (DSM-IV) was published, survivor guilt was removed as a recognized specific diagnosis, and redefined as a significant symptom of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\nSurvivor guilt was first identified during the 1960s. Several therapists recognized similar if not identical conditions among Holocaust survivors. Similar signs and symptoms have been recognized in survivors of traumatic situations including combat, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, air-crashes and wide-ranging job layoffs. A variant form has been found among rescue and emergency services personnel who blame themselves for doing too little to help those in danger, and among therapists, who may feel a form of guilt in the face of their patients' suffering.\n\nStephen Joseph, a psychologist at the University of Warwick, has studied the survivors of the capsizing of the MS \"Herald of Free Enterprise\" which killed 193 of the 459 passengers. His studies showed that 60 percent of the survivors suffered from survivor guilt. Joseph went on to say: \"There were three types: first, there was guilt about staying alive while others died; second, there was guilt about the things they failed to do – these people often suffered post-traumatic 'intrusions' as they relived the event again and again; third, there were feelings of guilt about what they did do, such as scrambling over others to escape. These people usually wanted to avoid thinking about the catastrophe. They didn't want to be reminded of what really happened.\"\n\nSufferers sometimes blame themselves for the deaths of others, including those who died while rescuing the survivor or whom the survivor tried unsuccessfully to save.\n\n\"Survivor syndrome\", also known as \"concentration camp syndrome\" (or \"KZ syndrome\" on account of the German term \"\"), are terms which have been used to describe the reactions and behaviors of people who have survived massive and adverse events, such as the Holocaust, the Rape of Nanking, and the HIV/AIDS epidemic. They are described as having a pattern of characteristic symptoms including anxiety and depression, social withdrawal, sleep disturbance and nightmares, physical complaints and mood swings with loss of drive. Commonly such survivors feel guilty that they have survived the trauma and others – such as their family, friends, and colleagues – did not.\n\nBoth conditions, along with other descriptive syndromes covering a range of traumatic events are now subsumed under posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nAIDS survivor syndrome refers to the psychological effects of living with the long-term trajectory of the AIDS epidemic and includes survivor's guilt, depression, and feelings of being forgotten in contemporary discussions concerning HIV. While AIDS survivor syndrome has not been recognized as a pathologizable illness by the NIH (as of December 2017), scientific research and publications are available that address this issue.\n\nHolocaust survivor Primo Levi was haunted by his experiences in Auschwitz and explored his survivor's guilt extensively in his autobiographical books, notably in \"I sommersi e i salvati (The Drowned and the Saved)\". Towards the end of his life he suffered from depression, and his death may have been suicide.\n\nIn an interview on Lifetime TV's \"Unsolved Mysteries\", Lawrence \"Larry\" Geller, one of Elvis Presley's closest friends, reported that Elvis, as a \"twinless twin\", was plagued by guilt over the death of his infant brother, Jesse Garon, who was stillborn. Elvis had confided to Geller about his concerns that maybe he had absorbed more than his share of the nutrients while he was developing inside his mother's womb, causing his twin brother to starve to death before he was born. Elvis had also related to Geller about how his mother had tried to comfort her son by assuring him that \"they would all meet in Heaven\" after their lives on Earth were completed.\n\nWaylon Jennings was a guitarist for Buddy Holly's band and initially had a seat on the ill-fated aircraft on The Day the Music Died on \nFebruary 3, 1959. But Jennings gave up his seat to the sick J.P. \"Big Bopper\" Richardson, only to learn later of the plane's crash. When Holly learned that Jennings was not going to fly, he said, \"Well, I hope your ol' bus freezes up.\" Jennings responded, \"Well, I hope your ol' plane crashes.\" This exchange of words, though made in jest at the time, haunted Jennings for the rest of his life. Jennings, who later became a country music star, expressed survivor's guilt about Richardson's death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12701434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12701434", "title": "TONY! The Blair Musical", "text": "TONY! The Blair Musical\n\nTONY! The Blair Musical is a satirical comedy musical written in 2007 by Chris Bush, director of the White Rose Theatre, with music composed by Ian McCluskey. TONY! follows the premiership of former British prime minister Tony Blair from his landslide election in 1997 to his resignation ten years later.\n\nIt is told to the audience by Blair himself, in the form of an interplay of spotlit monologues and musical flashbacks to various moments in the former prime minister's career. The musical focuses primarily on Blair's relationships with the key characters in his life, rather than the politics, including his Chancellor and successor as Prime Minister Gordon Brown and wife Cherie Booth. It is a musically eclectic production, featuring rock pieces, power ballads and a barbershop quartet of former Tory leaders. Performed at York's Theatre Royal, the Edinburgh Fringe and the Pleasance Theatre, Islington, TONY! has been described by the BBC as \"sharp, engaging and original,\" and as \"a shining example of honest comedy writing.\" It has also been criticized for crude caricatures and cheap one-liners. Nonetheless, the play won the NSDF & Pleasance Edinburgh Competition 2007. As part of the prize the production transferred to the Pleasance Theatre, Islington, for a limited run in late September 2007.\n\nThe production returned to the Edinburgh Fringe in August 2008, alongside its sequel \"Tony of Arabia\". Previews were performed at the Oxford North Wall and the Theatre Royal, Wakefield, in July 2008.\n\nThe production begins with a news reporter announcing the fall of Tony Blair, before the erstwhile prime minister is carried onstage, funeral-style, by four pallbearers, to melancholic chants of \"Tony!\". He is then thrown to the ground to the crash of a drum fill, where he begins to sing the opening number, \"Tony's Entrance,\" in which he declares his intention to recount the past ten years of his career to the audience, while the ex-pallbearers perform an ironic 1990s boy band-style dance. It then returns to Blair's election victory in 1997, in which he waves to adoring crowds and congratulates deputy prime minister John Prescott and chancellor Gordon Brown on their success. An aide then arrives to tell him the people are calling for him, at which point a second aide rushes on with a guitar for him to play. A single spotlight then illuminates Tony for his first monologue, in which he tells of the wonder of these first glorious days in power, and of how he became the 'people's prime minister.' He then kneels to pray, attempting to sneakily ask God for a report on how he's doing so far, before being interrupted by the angelic ghost of Diana, Princess of Wales. A clearly uninterested Diana tells him to become the next princess, the people's prime minister, and then warns him against a future of joining George W. Bush in invading Iraq, before drifting mysteriously away, leaving a completely nonplussed Tony in the spotlight.\n\nAlthough bewildered by Diana's \"cryptic prophecies,\" Tony realises his destiny as prime minister, and sits purposefully at his desk to begin work. His wife Cherie then enters to visit, but is indifferently shunted to one side to make way for the entrance of Peter Mandelson, Tony's closest advisor, who is portrayed as a camp and serpentine character and brings a homoerotic element to the Blair story. Bathed in a soft, romantic light, Tony and Peter both tell the audience of their mutual admiration. They exit the stage, leaving a rejected Cherie to sing the poignant \"No Me In Tony,\" a theme which is reprised by various characters throughout the production. Tony re-enters with a jealous Peter, before being joined by Gordon Brown, who probingly raises the issue of their deal (for Tony to hand over the premiership to Gordon in due course), their \"little chat.\" Tony reassures Gordon that he will keep his promise and exits, leaving Gordon, Peter and John Prescott to sing the jolly piece, \"My Mate Tony.\" Tony returns from a holiday in Italy, and the four talk of their plans to bring the party to the people, before singing the playful \"Open Politics,\" in which they gradually realise that, despite good intentions, there is in fact nothing they ever wish to talk about with the public. \n\nTony then tells the audience of his need to bring in \"a professional\" to better his public image and introduces the notorious spin-doctor Alastair Campbell. Although the others are sceptical, Tony is totally taken in by Alastair's promises of glory and together the two of them sing \"Evita Peron,\" an overdriven song in which Tony narcissistically declares himself to be the love-child of Madonna and Martin Luther King. So pleased is he with Campbell that he decides to let go of Peter, abandoning him on stage to reprise \"No Me In Tony.\" Once again in the spotlight, Tony recounts to the audience how the Conservative opposition was no competition, before a barbershop quartet of former Tory leaders - John Major, William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith and Michael Howard - shuffle on stage in boaters to sing their comic song in which they lament how they all fell foul of Mr. Blair. After this, Tony introduces George W. Bush with a recitative, who bounces on stage as a delinquent cowboy with a toy horse and screeches the bluesy song \"George's Entrance.\" As with Campbell, Tony is taken with the gutsy George, though as the president leaves, Gordon once again enters to moodily remind Tony of their deal, and scold him for forgetting his own people. After a heated exchange, Gordon pleads to Tony with the moving \"We Had A Deal,\" reminding his friend of how things used to be. An almost heartbroken Tony remembers how much his old friend means to him, but refuses to acquiesce, and a defeated Gordon strides out.\n\nThe disturbed Tony then suffers a heart murmur, and is hospitalised. Cherie joins him and begs him to slow down and think of his family, in the song \"Hand Of History,\" but, in the same number, Tony insists he has a destiny and refuses to give up, and, like Gordon before her, Cherie leaves disappointed. An excited George Bush returns and the pair exchange various crude jokes on the subject of Islamic extremists and the like. However, their fun is interrupted by an unimpressed Campbell, who informs Tony that there is no more he can do to save Tony's flagging image. At the end of his tether, Tony dismisses him, and Campbell reprises \"No Me In Tony\" for the final time, joined on stage by Cherie, Peter and Gordon. As they all dejectedly leave, a departing Campbell tells Tony of his imminent appearance on Newsnight with the dreaded interviewer Jeremy Paxman. The thundering rock number \"Newsnight\" then begins, in which Tony is grilled by Paxman, and, without Campbell's help, completely flounders. Tony is then left alone on stage to tell the audience that all political leaders make mistakes, but attempts to convince them of his much-admired integrity. However, in a nightmare sequence, he is again interrupted by Gordon with a reprise of \"We Had A Deal,\" and, gradually, Peter, Campbell and George return and revive various themes in a final medley. The appearance of Diana telling Tony that he has let the people down is the final straw, yet, even at the last, he pathetically reprises a desperate version of \"Evita Peron\" as everyone leaves him alone on stage.\n\nThe solitary Tony then breaks down in tears, but is disturbed by a little boy - Tom - who asks him why he is crying and tells him he's come with his family to meet the prime minister. Realising that Tom means him, Tony lets the boy sit in his office chair, from which he begins a long-winded monologue about his daddy's views on politics, concluding that his daddy thinks Tony is \"a star.\" Establishing that Tom's daddy wasn't given a peerage, Tony gives him a present - his prize guitar - and begins to sing the anthemic finale song \"Faith.\" The entire cast then join him on stage for the final chords, and a reinvigorated Tony tells Gordon that he's going to go for it one more time as the musical ends.\n\n\n\"Listed in order of appearance\"\n\n\n\nWhen the production moved from the Theatre Royal in York to the Edinburgh Fringe, time constraints forced the director, Chris Bush, to make several cuts from the original script. Songs that were cut included:\n\n\nHowever, when the production was transferred to the Pleasance Theatre in Islington from 19–22 September 2007, the above songs were re-included. In addition, Bush and McCluskey added another song, \"I Did It For Tony,\" a jazzy number in which Alastair Campbell and Peter Mandelson argue over each other's rightful place as Tony's true henchman, and Campbell bullies Mandelson about his homosexuality. The song features after \"I Am Evita Peron,\" immediately before Mandelson's dismissal. When the show returned to the 2008 Edinburgh festival, the cuts and \"I Did It For Tony\" were retained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26136863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26136863", "title": "Teatro Donizetti", "text": "Teatro Donizetti\n\nThe Teatro Donizetti is an opera house in Bergamo, Italy. Built in the 1780s using a design by architect Giovanni Francesco Lucchini, the theatre was originally referred to as either the Teatro Nuovo or Teatro di Fiera. The first opera to be mounted at the theatre, Giuseppe Sarti's \"Medonte, re di Epiro\", was in 1784 while the opera house was still under construction. The official opening of the house, under the name the Teatro Riccardi, did not occur until 24 August 1791 with a production of Pietro Metastasio's \"Didone abbandonata\" set to music by multiple composers, including Ferdinando Bertoni, Giacomo Rampini, Johann Gottlieb Naumann, Giuseppe Gazzaniga, and Giovanni Paisiello.\n\nIn 1797 the original theatre was destroyed by a fire, possibly by arson. Lucchini was contracted again to design a new structure to replace the old one and the new house opened on 30 June 1800. The structure uses a horseshoe shape with three tiers of boxes and two galleries. \n\nIn 1897 the name of the theatre was changed to the Teatro Gaetano Donizetti (now shortened to Teatro Donizetti) on the occasion of the centenary of the composer's birth. Donizetti was born in Bergamo's \"Borgo Canale\" quarter and his first opera, \"Il Pigmalione\" (composed 1816), was given its world premiere at the theatre on 13 October 1960.\n\nAdjacent to the theater is a park with the Monument to Donizetti.\n"}
{"id": "19464610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19464610", "title": "Teatro San Moisè", "text": "Teatro San Moisè\n\nThe Teatro San Moisè was a theatre and opera house in Venice, active from 1620 to 1818. It was in a prominent location near the Palazzo Giustinian and the church of San Moisè at the entrance to the Grand Canal.\n\nBuilt by the San Bernaba branch of the Giustiniani family c.1620, it was originally a prose theatre. Its first opera production was Claudio Monteverdi's (now lost) opera \"L'Arianna\" in 1640 by which time the ownership had passed to the Zane family who had long intermarried with the Giustiniani. It was used by the Ferrari company, and the librettist Giovanni Faustini was one of the theatre's first impresarios.\n\nFrom the outset it was one of the smaller theatres of Venice, but also one of the most influential. In 1668 it was enlarged to 800 seats, although this did not result in a significant increase on the size of the stage which limited the theatre's ability to stage large-scale productions throughout its existence. In 1674 theatre was revived by the impresario Francesco Santurini, who caused a revolution by halving the price of tickets to 2 lire, leading to an opera 'boom' and a further proliferation of active theatres in the city. \n\nDuring the early 18th century Gasparini, Vivaldi and Albinoni were all active in San Moisè. During the 1740s, Neapolitan opera buffa reached Venice and San Moisè was one of the first theatres to concentrate on this genre, with works by Baldassare Galuppi, in partnership with Carlo Goldoni, being seen in the theatre. This trend continued through most of the century. In the 1770s and 1780s the theatre was under the control of the prolific librettist Giovanni Bertati, the Poeta Cesareo (\"Imperial Poet\") of the Italian Opera in Vienna, who concentrated on drammi giocosi with Pasquale Anfossi and other composers.\n\nThe San Moisè finally closed in 1818 after producing a series of farse by Rossini. It later re-opened as a puppet theatre and was known as the Teatro Minerva. In July 1896, the Minerva saw Venice's first cinema projection when the Lumière brothers brought their equipment to the theatre. It was still being used as a cinema in 1906 but was later demolished. By the end of the 20th century the site was occupied by a shop and a block of flats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37039778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37039778", "title": "The Confidente", "text": "The Confidente\n\nThe Confidente is a weekly tabloid newspaper in Namibia. It was established by Max Hamata in 2011 as a weekly newspaper, it publishes in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "20586295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20586295", "title": "The Manga Bible: From Genesis to Revelation", "text": "The Manga Bible: From Genesis to Revelation\n\nThe Manga Bible: From Genesis to Revelation is an original English-language manga adaptation of the Bible created by Ajinbayo \"Siku\" Akinsiku, who was responsible for the concept and the art and the script writer Akin Akinsiku. It was released in July 2007 by Galilee Trade. They summarize the narrative of the Bible in a 200-page graphic novel including the Old Testament and the New Testament. With their work, they combine the Western and the Japanese culture to tell the Bible in a new way. The book is especially aimed at readers between the ages of 15 to 25. Church representatives were praising the graphic novel, as opening up the ideas of the Bible to a new target group. Ajinbayo Akinsiku was born in England and grew up in Nigeria; he now lives again in England. He thus represents different cultures in his artistic work, which becomes also apparent in \"The Manga Bible\". He became known for his work on 2000 AD and Judge Dredd.\n\nThe text and quotes in \"The Manga Bible\" are from \"The Holy Bible, Today's New International Version\" that was first published in 2004. For those people who want to read further in the Bible, the artists have included “Want to know more?” links indicating the references that help to find the passage in the original scripture. Those links are also a good indicator for the reader to know which passages from the original Bible are included in \"The Manga Bible\" and which passages were left out. At the end of the book commentaries about key scenes are included. They give away some of the ideas that inspired Siku and Akin to write \"The Manga Bible\", as well as the influences they had during the process. There are also sketches included that show the development of the art process.\n\nSiku is one of many artists living in the West who has been open to the manga style in his work and he uses it in his own way. He is influenced by his own cultural background, thereby creating a manga in English based on a book commonly associated with Western culture, namely the Bible.\n\nBy using manga, Siku is not just influenced by the Japanese comic style, but also by its aesthetics and culture, with which manga is closely connected. One of those aesthetic concepts is a three-part development called shin-gyo-so. It comes from the Japanese calligraphy, where the formal alphabet of kanji is represented by shin. The semi-formal characters are called kana and stands for the gyo. Finally, the least formal script is the cursive and is represented by the so. This formula is also applied in other aspects of the Japanese culture, for example in gardens or tea ceremonies. Applying this concept to \"The Manga Bible\", the book can be seen as an informal Bible, whereas the Bible in the church would be the formal one and the Bible people read at home would be seen as semi-formal. Within the manga itself, Siku also uses different levels of formality; there are pages, where he stays within the panels and other times where no panels at all exist. To illustrate the disorder of a war or the prophecies of the revelation, he also uses the technique of bleeding, which means that the drawing appears to continue over the edge of the page.\n\nAnother example for the close connection between the Japanese culture and its aesthetic is shown in the silent wandering of Jesus through the wilderness, triggering on the sensory memory of the reader. Siku describes the appearance of Jesus for example as “a Samurai stranger, who’s come to town, in a silhouette”. He also works with facial expressions of his characters. When the Egyptians are punished with the death of their first born, because the Israelites are not freed, Siku draws the characters with a facial expression that also elicits compassion in the reader, an effect that is often used in manga.\n\n\"The Manga Bible\" is a summary of the Bible, which implies that many parts are left out, altered a bit, or only partially used. The text and the drawings are based on the original scripture, but they also use free interpretation. Even though many of the important stories from the Bible are included, there are also some that would be expected, but are left out. For example, the building of the Tower of Babel and the whole Book of Esther are missing, In the Old and the New Testament only about half of the books are used as a source for \"The Manga Bible\". Many of the books that are left out would give only little to the development of the narrative, such as the Leviticus or books from the second part of the Old Testament, such as Micah or Habakkuk. This is mostly due to the style of manga, where the use of epic stories and action play an important role. Thus, \"The Manga Bible\" focuses on books that provide action and it also shows the violence and sexuality that is portrayed in the Bible. In the Book of Joshua the bloody fall of the Israelites’ enemies is shown. The weakness of different characters is illustrated with the examples of the moral downfall of David with Bathshebe or when Samson is deceived to give away the secret of his power.\n\nIn \"The Manga Bible’s\" rendition of the Old Testament entitled “The Book of God’s People”, Moses narrates the story of Genesis to a group of children. For a less conventional narrative style, the chronology of the books is sometimes changed or parts of one book are inserted in another one. So that for example the Book of Jonah is put between the two Books of Kings. The Book of Jonah is called “A Comedy Short” and is supposed to bring comic relief between the heavy issues of war and destruction that are persistent in the Old Testament. To emphasize the difference Siku uses a subgenre of manga called super deformed, in which the drawing is very simple or minimalist.\n\nThe story line is set up with many traditional images from the Bible. Siku shows the reader how the relationship between God and the people changed over the course of the Old Testament, so that he would no longer talk to his chosen people directly. After the Exodus, the Book of Judges plays a prominent role. The Book of Ruth is drawn in a different style and is mostly told as a love story. The stories of Samson and David are developed in more detail. The Old Testament ends with Prophets such as Daniel and leads over to the New Testament.\n\nThe second part, consisting of the New Testament is shorter than the first. The story of Jesus’ birth is only told through the three kings, who were ordered by King Herod to look for a newborn. The events between the first encounter of Jesus with his disciples and his death are told in less than thirty pages, including the Parables of the Good Samaritan, the Unforgiving servant and the Prodigal Son. Those Parables are also drawn in a more informal style to indicate that the stories are, although important, not necessarily part of the overall chronology. This summary of Jesus’ life requires many omissions, such as of the miracle of the loaves and fish, or most of the Parables. The narrative after the death of Jesus is mostly taken from the Acts of the Apostles.\n\nThe Book of Revelation differs from the rest of the New Testament, because it contains mostly visions and prophesies. Siku represents this by telling the revelation through the dreams of a girl in a hospital in the 21st century.\n\nThere are also several examples where contemporary ideas come in. In the Book of Job, Job asks himself, how he could have deserved his faith, when a bomb labeled “Fat Man” hits his house. Siku also includes maps in the Old Testament for example to show the journey of the Exodus. In the New Testament Jesus is tempted by the devil, who promises him the power over the world represented by contemporary New York and parts of other modern cities.\n\nThe book also makes use of irony or jokes, for example, when Adam sees the tree of good and evil in the Garden of Eden and his response is “Cool!” Noah later loses count of the animals heading to the ark, when he is up to 11,344, so he has to start all over again.\n\nThe critique that Siku does not use a traditional style of manga, but rather a style that is close to English independent comics, appears in several reviews. The Manga Bible is definitely influenced by the English culture, especially because it retells the story of a book that most people in the West are somehow familiar with.\n\nAnother point of critique is that \"The Manga Bible\" is too wordy for a traditional manga; Siku sees the need for that in the fact that he condenses the Bible in a 200-page graphic novel. To convey the message, more text is needed, or it would be difficult to follow the story line. It was also pointed out that due to the dense summary, the story moves in a fast pace and causes some theological flaws in \"The Manga Bible\".\n\nWhile most manga fans and reviews seem to be disappointed by the book and point out its weaknesses, the church praised the work. They see it as a book that opens up new ways of looking at the Bible. The archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, says about \"The Manga Bible\": “It will convey the shock and freshness of the Bible in a unique way.” \n\nSiku himself sees in Jesus a superhero and not the traditional blond Christ, people know from Hollywood movies. He is currently working on a three volume book called \"The Manga Jesus\". The first volume was released in November 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3154383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3154383", "title": "Truth and reconciliation commission", "text": "Truth and reconciliation commission\n\nA truth commission or truth and reconciliation commission is a commission tasked with discovering and revealing past wrongdoing by a government (or, depending on the circumstances, non-state actors also), in the hope of resolving conflict left over from the past. Truth commissions are, under various names, occasionally set up by states emerging from periods of internal unrest, civil war, or dictatorship. In both their truth-seeking and reconciling functions, truth commissions have political implications: they \"constantly make choices when they define such basic objectives as truth, reconciliation, justice, memory, reparation, and recognition, and decide how these objectives should be met and whose needs should be served.\"\n\nAccording to one widely cited definition: \"A truth commission (1) is focused on the past, rather than ongoing, events; (2) investigates a pattern of events that took place over a period of time; (3) engages directly and broadly with the affected population, gathering information on their experiences; (4) is a temporary body, with the aim of concluding with a final report; and (5) is officially authorized or empowered by the state under review.\"\n\nAs bodies mandated by governments, truth commissions constitute a form of \"official truth-seeking\". Thus they can provide proof against historical revisionism of state terrorism and other crimes and human rights abuses. Increasingly, supporters assert a \"right to the truth\" that commissions are well placed to carry forward. Truth commissions are sometimes criticised for allowing crimes to go unpunished, and creating impunity for serious human rights abusers. Their roles and abilities in this respect depend on their mandates, which vary widely.\n\nOne of the difficult issues that has arisen over the role of truth commissions in transitional societies, has centered on what should be the relationship between truth commissions and criminal prosecutions.\n\nIn general, truth commissions issue final reports which seek to provide an authoritative narrative of past events, which sometimes challenges previously dominant versions of the past. Truth commissions emphasizing \"historical clarification\" include the Historical Clarification Commission in Guatemala with its focus on setting straight the former military government's version of the past, and the Truth and Justice Commission in Mauritius which focused on the legacy of slavery and indentured servitude over a long colonial period. The Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in East Timor also aimed to tell a new \"national narrative\" to replace the version of history that had been prevalent under foreign rule.\n\nWithin the scope of transitional justice, truth commissions tend to lean towards restorative rather than retributive justice models. This means they often favour efforts to reconcile divided societies in the wake of conflict, or to reconcile societies with their own troubled pasts, over attempts to hold those accused of human rights violations accountable. Less commonly, truth commissions advocate forms of reparative justice, efforts to repair past damage and help victims of conflict or human rights violations to heal. This can take the form of reparations to victims, whether financial or otherwise; official apologies; commemorations or monuments to past human rights violations, or other forms. Reparations have been central, for instance, in Morocco's Equity and Reconciliation Commission.\n\nReconciliation forms a crucial aspect of most commissions. In some cases, peace agreements or the terms of transfers of power prevent court prosecutions and allow impunity for former rulers accused of human rights violations or even crimes against humanity, and truth commissions appear as the major alternative. In other cases, governments see the opportunity to unite divided societies and offer truth and reconciliation commissions as the way to reach that goal. Truth commissions formed part of peace settlements in El Salvador, Congo, Kenya, and others.\n\nCommissions often hold public hearings in which victims/survivors can share their stories and sometimes confront their former abusers. These processes sometimes include the hope of forgiveness for past crimes and the hope that society can thereby be healed and made whole again. The public reconciliation process is sometimes praised for offering a path to reconciliation, and sometimes criticised for promoting impunity and further traumatising victims.\n\nOn some occasions, truth commissions have been criticized for narrow mandates or lack of implementation after their reports. Examples include Chad's Commission of Inquiry into Crimes and Misappropriations committed by former president Hissene Habre and the Philippines Truth Commission which has been criticized as selective justice. A short-lived Commission of Truth and Reconciliation in Yugoslavia never reported as the country that created it ceased to exist. In others, such as Rwanda, it has been impossible to carry out commission recommendations due to a return to conflict.\n\nThe first truth commissions did not use the name, but aimed to unearth the truth about human rights violations under military regimes, predominantly in Latin America. Bolivia established a National Commission of Inquiry Into Disappearances in 1982 based on bringing together disparate sectors of society after the end of military rule, but the commission never reported. An earlier and perhaps the first such commission occurred in Uganda in 1974, and was known as the Truth Commission: Commission of Inquiry into the Disappearances of People in Uganda since 25 January, 1971.\n\nThe first such commission to be effective was Argentina's National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons, created by President of Argentina Raúl Alfonsín on 15 December 1983. It issued the \"Nunca Más\" (Never Again) report, which documented human rights violations under the military dictatorship known as the National Reorganization Process. The report was delivered to Alfonsín on 20 September 1984 and opened the door to the Trial of the Juntas, the first major trial held for war crimes since the Nuremberg trials in Germany following World War II and the first to be conducted by a civilian court.\n\nIn Chile, shortly after the country's return to democracy, a Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established in April 1990. It was the first to use the name and most truth commissions since then have used a variation on the title. Other early commissions were established in diverse locations including Uganda (1986), Nepal (1990), El Salvador (1992), and Guatemala (1994).\n\nSouth Africa's truth and reconciliation commission was formed in 1995, in the aftermath of apartheid, as a deal between the former white-minority regime and the African National Congress. Formal hearings began on 16 April 1996. The ANC's call for \"truth\" about the apartheid years combined with the ruling National Party's demand for amnesty for many of the perpetrators of apartheid to create the hybrid \"truth and reconciliation\" commission led by Bishop Desmond Tutu. During the truth and reconciliation commission, there were three committees and 17 commissioners in total. The three committees created were the Human Rights Violations, Amnesty, and the Rehabilitation and reparation committees.\n\nApproximately 7,000 individuals applied for amnesty, but only 10 percent received it. Those who violated human rights and followed the criteria did receive it. The criteria not only included individuals to fully admit their crimes, but to prove they were politically motivated. Those who supported the hybrid truth commission hoped it would heal the wounds of the past, give dignity to victims, and permit the emergence of a post-apartheid \"rainbow nation\" led by Nelson Mandela. To further heal the wounds, the commission recommended that there be a “wealth tax”, which would punish those who gained from apartheid, but South Africa never followed through. South Africa has not formally inserted any reparation programs. With South Africa being the first to mandate a truth and reconciliation commission, it has become a model for other countries. Commissions have been widespread in the aftermath of conflict as components of peace agreements in Africa since the 1990. \n\nFollowing South Africa's truth and reconciliation commission, many more truth commissions have been created and continue to be created. These include repeat commissions in some countries where the first commission was constrained and new governments felt it had not carried out a full accounting for the past. It has become a model for other countries. Commissions have been widespread in the aftermath of conflict as components of peace agreements in Africa since the 1990. For example, Congo and Sierra Leone have used truth commissions.Chile's Commission for Truth and Reconciliation was followed by a Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture in 2003. Approximately 3,000 people died or went missing during the years of Augusto Pinochet's rule. Pinochet's successor created the first commission in 1990. The Nepalese Truth Commission was followed by a new commission in 2014; and there have been calls for a new truth commission to supplement the Panama Truth Commission established in 2000.\n\nCommissions have also started to operate with targeted mandates related to indigenous peoples or the aftermath of colonialism. Canada's truth commission focused on the legacies of Indian residential schools and indigenous-settler relations. Canada sanctioned a program that allowed the kidnapping of native children in order to assimilate them. In 2006 schools that were set in Indian residential areas sued Canada and began the process towards enacting a truth and reconciliation commission. Also, Australia has held a \"National Inquiry into the Separation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Children from Their Families.\" On the other hand, Germany has held two truth commissions on human rights violations in the former East Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8436481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8436481", "title": "Týden", "text": "Týden\n\nTýden (meaning \"Week\" in English) is a Czech weekly news magazine, that focuses mainly on news and news analysis.\n\n\"Týden\" was founded in 1994 and soon became part of the Axel Springer AG media. Four years later, the magazine was bought by Ringier, a Swiss publishing house which in turn sold it to the current owner, Swiss entrepreneur Sebastian Pawlowski. The publisher of the magazine, based in Prague, is Empresa Media, A.S.\n\nComing out every Monday, the over a hundred pages of \"Týden\" are structured into five main sections – News, World, Business, Culture, and Modern Life. The magazine offers regular supplements and extras, such as bank of the year, cars, investments, living, information technology, etc. The magazine has a format similar to that of \"Focus\" magazine.\n\nThe current editor-in-chief of the magazine, František Nachtigall, is a successor to Karel Hvížďala, Aleš Lederer and Dalibor Balšínek. The \"Týden\" staff include a number of Czech journalistic heavyweights, such as Martin Fendrych, Ondřej Štindl, Miroslav Korecký and Marek Šálek.\n\nThe readership of \"Týden\" is mainly urban people with higher education and it is the top-rated magazine among 30- to 44-year-old middle and upper classes.\n\nIn August 2006, \"Týden\" had a circulation of 70 000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1193903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193903", "title": "Uncontrolled decompression", "text": "Uncontrolled decompression\n\nUncontrolled decompression is an unplanned drop in the pressure of a sealed system, such as an aircraft cabin or hyperbaric chamber, and typically results from human error, material fatigue, engineering failure, or impact, causing a pressure vessel to vent into its lower-pressure surroundings or fail to pressurize at all.\n\nSuch decompression may be classed as \"Explosive, Rapid\", or \"Slow\":\n\nThe term \"uncontrolled decompression\" here refers to the unplanned depressurisation of vessels that are occupied by people; for example, a pressurised aircraft cabin at high altitude, a spacecraft, or a hyperbaric chamber. For the catastrophic failure of other pressure vessels used to contain gas, liquids, or reactants under pressure, the term explosion is more commonly used, or other specialised terms such as BLEVE may apply to particular situations.\n\nDecompression can occur due to structural failure of the pressure vessel, or failure of the compression system itself. The speed and violence of the decompression is affected by the size of the pressure vessel, the differential pressure between the inside and outside of the vessel, and the size of the leak hole.\n\nThe US Federal Aviation Administration recognizes three distinct types of decompression events in aircraft:\n\nExplosive decompression occurs at a rate swifter than that at which air can escape from the lungs, typically in less than 0.1 to 0.5 seconds. The risk of lung trauma is very high, as is the danger from any unsecured objects that can become projectiles because of the explosive force, which may be likened to a bomb detonation.\n\nAfter an explosive decompression within an aircraft, a heavy fog may immediately fill the interior as the relative humidity of cabin air rapidly changes as the air cools and condenses. Military pilots with oxygen masks have to pressure-breathe, whereby the lungs fill with air when relaxed, and effort has to be exerted to expel the air again.\n\nRapid decompression typically takes more than 0.1 to 0.5 seconds, allowing the lungs to decompress more quickly than the cabin. The risk of lung damage is still present, but significantly reduced compared with explosive decompression.\n\nSlow, or gradual, decompression occurs slowly enough to go unnoticed and might only be detected by instruments. This type of decompression may also come about from a failure to pressurize as an aircraft climbs to altitude. An example of this is the 2005 Helios Airways Flight 522 crash, in which the pilots failed to check the aircraft was pressurising automatically and then to react to the warnings that the aircraft was depressurising, eventually losing consciousness (along with most of the passengers and crew) from hypoxia.\n\nSeals in high-pressure vessels are also susceptible to explosive decompression; the O-rings or rubber gaskets used to seal pressurised pipelines tend to become saturated with high-pressure gases. If the pressure inside the vessel is suddenly released, then the gases within the rubber gasket may expand violently, causing blistering or explosion of the material. For this reason, it is common for military and industrial equipment to be subjected to an explosive decompression test before it is certified as safe for use.\n\nThis persistent myth is based on a failure to distinguish between two types of decompression and their exaggerated portrayal in some fictional works. The first type of decompression deals with changing from normal atmospheric pressure (one atmosphere) to a vacuum (zero atmosphere) which is usually centered around space exploration. The second type of decompression changes from exceptionally high pressure (many atmospheres) to normal atmospheric pressure (one atmosphere) as what would be found from deep-sea diving.\n\nThe first type is more common as pressure reduction from normal atmospheric pressure to a vacuum can be found in both space exploration and high-altitudes aviation. Research and experience have shown that while exposure to a vacuum causes swelling, human skin is tough enough to withstand the drop of one atmosphere. One of the major issues of vacuum exposure is hypoxia, in which the body is starved of oxygen that leads to unconsciousness within a few seconds. Rapid uncontrolled decompression can be much more dangerous than vacuum exposure itself. Even if the victim does not hold their breath, venting through the windpipe may be too slow to prevent the fatal rupture of the delicate alveoli of the lungs. Eardrums and sinuses may be ruptured by rapid decompression, soft tissues may bruise and seep blood, and the stress of shock accelerates oxygen consumption, leading to hypoxia. At the extreme low pressures encountered at altitudes above about , the boiling point of water becomes less than normal body temperature. This measure of altitude is known as the Armstrong limit, which is the practical limit to survivable altitude without pressurization. Fictional accounts of bodies exploding due to exposure from a vacuum include among others a character's death in the movie Total Recall, when he is exposed to the atmosphere of Mars.\n\nThe second type is rare since it involves a pressure drop over several atmospheres, which would require the person to have been placed in a pressure vessel. The only likely situation in which this might occur is during decompression after deep-sea diving. A pressure drop as small as 100 Torr (13 kPa), which produces no symptoms if it is gradual, may be fatal if it occurs suddenly. Such an incident occurred in 1983 in the North Sea, where violent explosive decompression from nine atmospheres to one caused four divers to die instantly from massive and lethal barotrauma. Fictional accounts of this include a scene from the film \"Licence to Kill\", when a character's head explodes after his hyperbaric chamber is rapidly depressurized, and another in the film \"DeepStar Six\", wherein rapid depressurization causes a character to hemorrhage profusely before exploding in a similar fashion.\n\nIn 2004, the TV show \"MythBusters\" examined if explosive decompression occurs when a bullet is fired through the fuselage of an airplane by informally using a pressurised aircraft and several scale tests. The results of these tests suggested that the fuselage design does not allow people to be blown out. Professional pilot David Lombardo states that a bullet hole would have no perceived effect on cabin pressure as the hole would be smaller than the opening of the aircraft's outflow valve. NASA scientist Geoffrey A. Landis points out though that the impact depends on the size of the hole, which can be expanded by debris that is blown through it. Landis went on to say that \"it would take about 100 seconds for pressure to equalise through a roughly hole in the fuselage of a Boeing 747.\" He then stated that anyone sitting next to the hole would have half a ton of force pulling them in the direction of it. On April 17, 2018 a seat-belted woman on Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 was partially blown through an airplane window that had been broken due to debris from an engine failure. Although the other passengers were able to pull her back inside, she later died from her injuries.\n\nThe following physical injuries may be associated with decompression incidents:\n\n\nModern aircraft are specifically designed with longitudinal and circumferential reinforcing ribs in order to prevent localised damage from tearing the whole fuselage open during a decompression incident. However, decompression events have nevertheless proved fatal for aircraft in other ways. In 1974, explosive decompression onboard Turkish Airlines Flight 981 caused the floor to collapse, severing vital flight control cables in the process. The FAA issued an Airworthiness Directive the following year requiring manufacturers of wide-body aircraft to strengthen floors so that they could withstand the effects of in-flight decompression caused by an opening of up to in the lower deck cargo compartment. Manufacturers were able to comply with the Directive either by strengthening the floors and/or installing relief vents called \"dado panels\" between the passenger cabin and the cargo compartment.\n\nCabin doors are designed to make it nearly impossible to lose pressurization through opening a cabin door in flight, either accidentally or intentionally. The plug door design ensures that when the pressure inside the cabin exceeds the pressure outside the doors are forced shut and will not open until the pressure is equalised. Cabin doors, including the emergency exits, but not all cargo doors, open inwards, or must first be pulled inwards and then rotated before they can be pushed out through the door frame because at least one dimension of the door is larger than the door frame. Pressurization prevented the doors of Saudia Flight 163 from being opened on the ground after the aircraft made a successful emergency landing, resulting in the deaths of all 287 passengers and 14 crew members from fire and smoke.\n\nPrior to 1996, approximately 6,000 large commercial transport airplanes were type certified to fly up to , without being required to meet special conditions related to flight at high altitude. In 1996, the FAA adopted Amendment 25-87, which imposed additional high-altitude cabin-pressure specifications, for new designs of aircraft types. For aircraft certified to operate above 25,000 feet (FL 250; 7,600 m), it \"must be designed so that occupants will not be exposed to cabin pressure altitudes in excess of after any probable failure condition in the pressurization system.\" In the event of a decompression which results from \"any failure condition not shown to be extremely improbable,\" the aircraft must be designed so that occupants will not be exposed to a cabin altitude exceeding for more than 2 minutes, nor exceeding an altitude of at any time. In practice, that new FAR amendment imposes an operational ceiling of 40,000 feet on the majority of newly designed commercial aircraft.\n\nIn 2004, Airbus successfully petitioned the FAA to allow cabin pressure of the A380 to reach in the event of a decompression incident and to exceed for one minute. This special exemption allows the A380 to operate at a higher altitude than other newly designed civilian aircraft, which have not yet been granted a similar exemption.\n\nThe Depressurization Exposure Integral (DEI) is a quantitative model that is used by the FAA to enforce compliance with decompression-related design directives. The model relies on the fact that the pressure that the subject is exposed to and the duration of that exposure are the two most important variables at play in a decompression event.\n\nOther national and international standards for explosive decompression testing include:\n\nDecompression incidents are not uncommon on military and civilian aircraft, with approximately 40–50 rapid decompression events occurring worldwide annually. However, in most cases the problem is manageable, injuries or structural damage rare and the incident not considered notable. One notable, recent case was Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 in 2018, where an uncontained engine failure ruptured a window, causing a passenger to be partially blown out.\n\nDecompression incidents do not occur solely in aircraft; the Byford Dolphin accident is an example of violent explosive decompression on an oil rig. A decompression event is an effect of a failure caused by another problem (such as an explosion or mid-air collision), but the decompression event may worsen the initial issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77697", "title": "Will and testament", "text": "Will and testament\n\nA will or testament is a legal document by which a person, the testator, expresses their wishes as to how their property is to be distributed at death, and names one or more persons, the executor, to manage the estate until its final distribution. For the devolution of property not disposed of by will, see inheritance and intestacy.\n\nThough it has at times been thought that a \"will\" was historically limited to real property while \"testament\" applies only to dispositions of personal property (thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as \"Last Will and Testament\"), the historical records show that the terms have been used interchangeably. Thus, the word \"will\" validly applies to both personal and real property. A will may also create a testamentary trust that is effective only after the death of the testator.\n\nThroughout most of the world, disposal of an estate has been a matter of social custom. According to Plutarch, the written will was invented by Solon. Originally, it was a device intended solely for men who died without an heir.\n\nThe English phrase \"will and testament\" is derived from a period in English law when Old English and Law French were used side by side for maximum clarity. Other such legal doublets include \"breaking and entering\" and \"peace and quiet\".\n\nThe conception of the freedom of disposition by will, familiar as it is in modern England and the United States, both generally considered common law systems, is by no means universal. In fact, complete freedom is the exception rather than the rule. Civil law systems often put some restrictions on the possibilities of disposal; see for example \"Forced heirship\".\n\nAdvocates for gays and lesbians have pointed to the inheritance rights of spouses as desirable for same-sex couples as well, through same-sex marriage or civil unions. Opponents of such advocacy rebut this claim by pointing to the ability of same-sex couples to disperse their assets by will. Historically, however, it was observed that \"[e]ven if a same-sex partner executes a will, there is risk that the survivor will face prejudice in court when disgruntled heirs challenge the will\", with courts being more willing to strike down wills leaving property to a same-sex partner on such grounds as incapacity or undue influence.\n\nTypes of wills generally include:\n\nSome jurisdictions recognize a holographic will, made out entirely in the testator's own hand, or in some modern formulations, with material provisions in the testator's hand. The distinctive feature of a holographic will is less that it is handwritten by the testator, and often that it need not be witnessed. In Louisiana this type of testament is called an Olographic or Mystic will. It must be entirely written, dated, and signed in the handwriting of the testator. Although the date may appear anywhere in the testament, the testator must sign the testament at the end of the testament. Any additions or corrections must also be entirely hand written to have effect. In England, the formalities of wills are relaxed for soldiers who express their wishes on active service; any such will is known as a serviceman's will. A minority of jurisdictions even recognize the validity of nuncupative wills (oral wills), particularly for military personnel or merchant sailors. However, there are often constraints on the disposition of property if such an oral will is used.\n\n\nAny person over the age of majority and having \"testamentary capacity\" (i.e., generally, being of sound mind) can make a will, with or without the aid of a lawyer. Additional requirements may vary, depending on the jurisdiction, but generally include the following requirements:\n\n\nThere is no legal requirement that a will be drawn up by a lawyer, although there are pitfalls into which home-made wills can fall. The person who makes a will is not available to explain him or herself, or to correct any technical deficiency or error in expression, when it comes into effect on that person's death, and so there is little room for mistake. A common error, for example, in the execution of home-made wills in England is to use a beneficiary (typically a spouse or other close family members) as a witness—which may have the effect in law of disinheriting the witness regardless of the provisions of the will.\n\nA will may not include a requirement that an heir commit an illegal, immoral, or other act against public policy as a condition of receipt.\n\nIn community property jurisdictions, a will cannot be used to disinherit a surviving spouse, who is entitled to at least a portion of the testator's estate. In the United States, children may be disinherited by a parent's will, except in Louisiana, where a minimum share is guaranteed to surviving children except in specifically enumerated circumstances. Many civil law countries follow a similar rule. In England and Wales from 1933 to 1975, a will could disinherit a spouse; however, since the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975 such an attempt can be defeated by a court order if it leaves the surviving spouse (or other entitled dependent) without \"reasonable financial provision\".\n\nIn 1973 an international convention, the \"Convention providing a Uniform Law on the Form of an International Will\", was concluded in the context of UNIDROIT. The Convention provided for a universally recognised code of rules under which a will made anywhere, by any person of any nationality, would be valid and enforceable in every country which became a party to the Convention. These are known as \"international wills\". Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Canada (for 9 provinces, not Quebec), Cyprus, Ecuador, France, Italy, Libya, Niger, Portugal Slovenia, The Holy See, Iran, Laos, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, the United Kingdom, and the United States have signed but not ratified. International wills are only valid where the convention applies. Although the US has not ratified on behalf of any state, the Uniform law has been enacted in 23 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nFor individuals who own assets in multiple countries and at least one of those countries are not a part of the Convention, it may be appropriate for the person to have multiple wills, one for each country. In some nations, multiple wills may be useful to reduce or avoid taxes upon the estate and its assets. Care must be taken to avoid accidental revocation of prior wills, conflicts between the wills, to anticipate jurisdictional and choice of law issues that may arise during probate.\n\nIntentional physical destruction of a will by the testator will revoke it, through deliberately burning or tearing the physical document itself, or by striking out the signature. In most jurisdictions, partial revocation is allowed if only part of the text or a particular provision is crossed out. Other jurisdictions will either ignore the attempt or hold that the entire will was actually revoked. A testator may also be able to revoke by the physical act of another (as would be necessary if he or she is physically incapacitated), if this is done in their presence and in the presence of witnesses. Some jurisdictions may presume that a will has been destroyed if it had been last seen in the possession of the testator but is found mutilated or cannot be found after their death.\n\nA will may also be revoked by the execution of a new will. However, most wills contain stock language that expressly revokes any wills that came before them, because otherwise a court will normally still attempt to read the wills together to the extent they are consistent.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the complete revocation of a will automatically revives the next-most recent will, while others hold that revocation leaves the testator with no will, so that their heirs will instead inherit by intestate succession.\n\nIn England and Wales, marriage will automatically revoke a will, for it is presumed that upon marriage a testator will want to review the will. A statement in a will that it is made in contemplation of forthcoming marriage to a named person will override this.\n\nDivorce, conversely, will not revoke a will, but in many jurisdictions will have the effect that the former spouse is treated as if they had died before the testator and so will not benefit.\n\nWhere a will has been accidentally destroyed, on evidence that this is the case, a copy will or draft will may be admitted to probate.\n\nMany jurisdictions exercise an equitable doctrine known as \"dependent relative revocation\" (\"DRR\"). Under this doctrine, courts may disregard a revocation that was based on a mistake of law on the part of the testator as to the effect of the revocation. For example, if a testator mistakenly believes that an earlier will can be revived by the revocation of a later will, the court will ignore the later revocation if the later will comes closer to fulfilling the testator's intent than not having a will at all. The doctrine also applies when a testator executes a second, or new will and revokes their old will under the (mistaken) belief that the new will would be valid. However, if for some reason the new will is not valid, a court may apply the doctrine to reinstate and probate the old will, if the court holds that the testator would prefer the old will to intestate succession.\n\nBefore applying the doctrine, courts may require (with rare exceptions) that there have been an alternative plan of disposition of the property. That is, after revoking the prior will, the testator could have made an alternative plan of disposition. Such a plan would show that the testator intended the revocation to result in the property going elsewhere, rather than just being a revoked disposition. Secondly, courts require either that the testator have recited their mistake in the terms of the revoking instrument, or that the mistake be established by clear and convincing evidence. For example, when the testator made the original revocation, he must have erroneously noted that he was revoking the gift \"because the intended recipient has died\" or \"because I will enact a new will tomorrow\".\n\nDRR may be applied to restore a gift erroneously struck from a will if the intent of the testator was to enlarge that gift, but will not apply to restore such a gift if the intent of the testator was to revoke the gift in favor of another person. For example, suppose Tom has a will that bequeaths $5,000 to his secretary, Alice Johnson. If Tom crosses out that clause and writes \"$7,000 to Alice Johnson\" in the margin, but does not sign or date the writing in the margin, most states would find that Tom had revoked the earlier provision, but had not effectively amended his will to add the second; however, under DRR the revocation would be undone because Tom was acting under the mistaken belief that he could increase the gift to $7,000 by writing that in the margin. Therefore, Alice will get 5,000 dollars. However, the doctrine of relative revocation will not apply if the interlineation decreases the amount of the gift from the original provision (e.g., \"$5,000 to Alice Johnson\" is crossed out and replaced with \"$3,000 to Alice Johnson\" without Testator's signature or the date in the margin; DRR does not apply and Alice Johnson will take nothing).\n\nSimilarly, if Tom crosses out that clause and writes in the margin \"$5,000 to Betty Smith\" without signing or dating the writing, the gift to Alice will be effectively revoked. In this case, it will not be restored under the doctrine of DRR because even though Tom was mistaken about the effectiveness of the gift to Betty, that mistake does not affect Tom's intent to revoke the gift to Alice. Because the gift to Betty will be invalid for lack of proper execution, that $5,000 will go to Tom's residuary estate.\n\nAlso referred to as \"electing to take against the will\". In the United States, many states have probate statutes which permit the surviving spouse of the decedent to choose to receive a particular share of deceased spouse's estate in lieu of receiving the specified share left to him or her under the deceased spouse's will. As a simple example, under Iowa law (see Code of Iowa Section 633.238 (2005)), the deceased spouse leaves a will which expressly devises the marital home to someone other than the surviving spouse. The surviving spouse may elect, contrary to the intent of the will, to live in the home for the remainder of his/her lifetime. This is called a \"life estate\" and terminates immediately upon the surviving spouse's death.\n\nThe historical and social policy purposes of such statutes are to assure that the surviving spouse receives a statutorily set minimum amount of property from the decedent. Historically, these statutes were enacted to prevent the deceased spouse from leaving the survivor destitute, thereby shifting the burden of care to the social welfare system.\n\nIn New York, a surviving spouse is entitled to one-third of her deceased spouse's estate. The decedent's debts, administrative expenses and reasonable funeral expenses are paid prior to the calculation of the spousal elective share. The elective share is calculated through the \"net estate\". The net estate is inclusive of property that passed by the laws of intestacy, testamentary property, and testamentary substitutes, as enumerated in EPTL 5-1.1-A. New York's classification of testamentary substitutes that are included in the net estate make it challenging for a deceased spouse to disinherit their surviving spouse.\n\nIn antiquity, Julius Caesar's will, which named his grand-nephew Octavian as his adopted son and heir, funded and legitimized Octavian's rise to political power in the late Republic; it provided him the resources necessary to win the civil wars against the \"Liberators\" and Antony and to establish the Roman Empire under the name Augustus. Antony's officiating at the public reading of the will led to a riot and moved public opinion against Caesar's assassins. Octavian's illegal publication of Antony's sealed will was an important factor in removing his support within Rome, as it described his wish to be buried in Alexandria beside the Egyptian queen Cleopatra.\n\nIn the modern era, the \"Thellusson v Woodford\" will case led to British legislation against the accumulation of money for later distribution and was fictionalized as \"Jarndyce and Jarndyce\" in Charles Dickens's \"Bleak House\". The Nobel Prizes were established by Alfred Nobel's will. Charles Vance Millar's will provoked the Great Stork Derby, as he successfully bequeathed the bulk of his estate to the Toronto-area woman who had the greatest number of children in the ten years after his death. (The prize was divided among four women who had nine, with smaller payments made to women who had borne 10 children but lost some to miscarriage. Another woman who bore ten children was disqualified, for several were illegitimate.)\n\nThe longest known legal will is that of Englishwoman Frederica Evelyn Stilwell Cook. Probated in 1925, it was 1,066 pages, and had to be bound in four volumes; her estate was worth $100,000. The shortest known legal wills are those of Bimla Rishi of Delhi, India (\"all to son\") and Karl Tausch of Hesse, Germany, (\"all to wife\") both containing only two words in the language they were written in (Hindi and Czech, respectively). \nThe shortest will is of Shripad Krishnarao Vaidya of Nagpur, Maharashtra, consisting of five letters (“HEIR'S”).\n\nAfter the testator has died, an application for probate may be made in a court with probate jurisdiction to determine the validity of the will or wills that the testator may have created, i.e., which will satisfy the legal requirements, and to appoint an executor. In most cases, during probate, at least one witness is called upon to testify or sign a \"proof of witness\" affidavit. In some jurisdictions, however, statutes may provide requirements for a \"self-proving\" will (must be met during the execution of the will), in which case witness testimony may be forgone during probate. Often there is a time limit, usually 30 days, within which a will must be admitted to probate. In some jurisdictions, only an original will may be admitted to probate—even the most accurate photocopy will not suffice. Some jurisdictions will admit a copy of a will if the original was lost or accidentally destroyed and the validity of the copy can be proved to the satisfaction of the court.\n\nIf the will is ruled invalid in probate, then inheritance will occur under the laws of intestacy as if a will were never drafted.\n\n\n\n"}
