{"id": "14897215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14897215", "title": "Achawa language", "text": "Achawa language\n\nAchagua (Achawa) is a language spoken in the Meta Department of Colombia, similar to Piapoco. It is estimated that 250 individuals speak the language, many of whom also speak Piapoco or Spanish.\n\n\"Achagua is a language of the Maipurean Arawakan group traditionally spoken by the Achagua people of Venezuela and east-central Colombia.\"\n\nA \"Ponares\" language is inferred from surnames, and may have been Achawa or Piapoco.\n\nThere is 1 to 5% literacy in Achagua.\n\n"}
{"id": "30716805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30716805", "title": "Al-Hadi Ali", "text": "Al-Hadi Ali\n\nAl-Hadi Ali (1345/46 – September 6, 1432) was a claimant to the Zaidi state in Yemen, who posed as imam from 1393 to 1432 in rivalry with another prince.\n\nAli bin al-Mu'ayyad was a fifth-generation descendant of the imam al-Hadi Yahya (d. 1239). After the demise of imam an-Nasir Muhammad Salah ad-Din in 1391, a struggle broke out between his son al-Mansur Ali and another contender, al-Mahdi Ahmad bin Yahya. Al-Mansur imprisoned his opponent in 1392, but was then challenged by Ali bin al-Mu'ayyad, who took the honorific (\"laqab\") name al-Hadi Ali. During his almost 40 years long imamate he was generally overshadowed by al-Mansur Ali, who was celebrated as a \"mujaddid bi-sayfihi\", a warlike restorer, and who died only in 1436. Nevertheless, al-Hadi Ali had a following and was counted by some as a mujaddidun. These are figures who, according to a hadith, will appear every century to restore Islam. He died in 1432, leaving ten sons, of whom al-Hasan (1401–1486) became a prominent scholar. Al-Hasan's son in turn, al-Hadi Izz ad-din, held the Zaidi imamate in 1474–1495.\n\n"}
{"id": "41065962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41065962", "title": "Arabs in Austria", "text": "Arabs in Austria\n\nArabs in Austria () are Austrians of Arab ethnic, particularly Lebanon, Syria, Palestinian, Iraq, Jordan and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Libya, Yemen and Sudan, who emigrated from their native nations and currently reside in Austria. Most Arab Austrians are of Iraqis and Lebanese or Syrian origin, as a result of the fact that they were the first Arabs to arrive in Austria.\n\nIn addition, Austria has people from Arab countries, who have the status of refugees (Refugees of the Syrian civil war) or illegal immigrants (Algerians of mainly Berber descent and usually mistakenly called Arabs) trying to immigrate to Western Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16098124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16098124", "title": "Boghom language", "text": "Boghom language\n\nBoghom (also known as Bogghom, Bohom, Burom, Burum, Burrum,the hausa people calling them to. Burmawa, Borrom, Boghorom, Bokiyim) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken by the majority of people in Kanam local government of Plateau State, Nigeria. The Boghom people are mostly farmers, though some of them engage in rearing animals. Historically, hunting was a major occupation of the people too.\n\n"}
{"id": "33876295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33876295", "title": "Bohemian Club (Chicago)", "text": "Bohemian Club (Chicago)\n\nThe Bohemian Club () was a club founded in 1899 that was frequented by Chicago's Czech elite, as well as the visiting elite from Czechoslovakia. The club was used as a place to share Czech culture, drama, music and literature.\n\nIt was visited by numerous well-known people of Bohemian descent, such as Anton Cermak, Rudolf Friml, George Halas and Otto Kerner, Jr.. It also served as host to Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, the founder and first President of Czechoslovakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "9741995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9741995", "title": "Bukawa language", "text": "Bukawa language\n\nBukawa (also known as Bukaua, Kawac, Bugawac, Gawac) is an Austronesian language spoken by about 12,000 people (in 2011) on the coast of the Huon Gulf, Morobe Province, Papua New Guinea. The most common spelling of the name in both community and government usage is Bukawa (Eckermann 2007:1), even though it comes from the Yabem language, which served as a church and school lingua franca in the coastal areas around the Gulf for most of the 20th century. This ethnonym, which now designates Bukawa-speakers in general, derives from the name of a prominent village Bugawac (literally 'River Gawac', though no such river seems to exist) at Cape Arkona in the center of the north coast.\n\nEthnologue notes that 40% of Bukawa speakers are monolingual (or perhaps were in 1978). This claim is hard to credit unless one discounts both Tok Pisin, the national language of Papua New Guinea, and Yabem, the local Lutheran mission lingua franca. The anthropologist Ian Hogbin, who did fieldwork in the large Bukawa-speaking village of Busama on the south coast shortly after World War II, found that everyone was multilingual in three languages: Tok Pisin, Yabem, and their village language (Hogbin 1951).\n\nBukawa distinguishes the eight vowel qualities. The central mid vowel is rounded, while the low vowel is unrounded. \nGlottal stop, written with a \"c\" as in Yabem, is only distinctive at the end of syllables. The only other consonants that can occur syllable-finally are labials and nasals: \"p, b, m, ŋ\". Syllable-structure constraints are most easily explained if labialized and prenasalized consonants are considered unit phonemes rather than clusters. The distinction between voiced (vd) and voiceless (vl) laterals and approximants is unusual for Huon Gulf languages.\nVowels are further distinguished by high or low pitch. The latter is marked orthographically by a grave accent. These distinctions in tone are thus based on register tone, not contour tone as in Mandarin Chinese. Register tone contrasts are a relatively recent innovation of the North Huon Gulf languages. While tone is somewhat predictable in Yabem, where low tone correlates with voiced obstruents and high tone with voiceless obstruents, Bukawa has lost that correlation. Nor does Bukawa tone correlate predictably with Yabem tone. Compare Yab. low-tone \"awê\" 'woman' and Buk. high-tone \"awhê\" 'woman', both presumably from POc *papine (or *tapine).\n\nFinal syllables appear to show distinctive nasal contrasts. Anticipation of final nasal consonants causes final vowels to nasalize, even when the final nasal consonant is elided in actual speech. Anticipation of nonnasal codas on final syllables, on the other hand, has caused systematic stopping (postplosion) of syllable-initial nasals, creating a class of prenasalized voiced obstruents that correspond to simple nasals in Yabem, as in the final seven examples in the following table. (See Bradshaw 2010.)\nThe short, underdifferentiated genitive forms are often disambiguated by adding the free pronoun in front.\nTraditional counting practices started with the digits of one hand, then continued on the other hand, and then the feet to reach '20', which translates as 'one person'. Higher numbers are multiples of 'one person'. Nowadays, most counting above '5' is done in Tok Pisin. As in other Huon Gulf languages, the short form of the numeral 'one' functions as an indefinite article.\nLike most of the languages around the Huon Gulf, Bukawa has a system of birth-order names (Holzknecht 1989: 43-45). The seventh son is called \"No Name\": \"se-mba\" 'name-none'. Compare Numbami.\n\n"}
{"id": "52438157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52438157", "title": "Cannabis in Benin", "text": "Cannabis in Benin\n\nCannabis in Benin is illegal. The country is not a major drug producer or consumer, but increasingly serves as a transshipment point for drugs produced elsewhere. Cannabis is the only drug produced locally in Benin, though mostly on a small scale.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Drug Policy\" noted in 2011 that over the past two decades, sale of cannabis had increasingly fallen under the control of organized crime syndicates operating regionally, particularly from Nigeria. Porto-Novo emerged as a particular transit point, given its proximity to Nigeria which allowed collaboration with Yoruba smugglers.\n\nIn 2006, Benin seized 82 kilograms of cannabis.\n"}
{"id": "13675697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675697", "title": "Capital punishment in Armenia", "text": "Capital punishment in Armenia\n\nThe last execution in Armenia took place on the 30 August 1991; it was carried out by a single bullet. Death penalty remained a legal punishment for murder, treason, and serious crimes of a military nature, until its abolition in 2003. The death penalty was replaced with life imprisonment for all crimes.\n\nIn 2003 Armenia also ratified the Protocol No. 6 to the European Convention on Human Rights (the Protocol allows countries to retain death penalty for serious wartime crimes). Protocol No. 13 (concerning abolition of the death penalty under all circumstances) was signed in 2006; however, as of January 2008 Armenia has not ratified it.\n\n"}
{"id": "27976338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976338", "title": "Carlo Strenger", "text": "Carlo Strenger\n\nCarlo Strenger (; born July 16, 1958) is a Swiss and Israeli psychologist, philosopher, existential psychoanalyst and public intellectual who serves as professor of psychology and philosophy at Tel Aviv University (at its Cohn Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science and Ideas and School of Psychological Sciences).\n\nHe is senior research fellow at the Center for the Study of Terrorism at John Jay College, on the scientific advisory board of the Sigmund Freud Foundation in Vienna, and a member of the Seminar for Existential Psychoanalysis in Zurich. His research focuses on the impact of globalization on meaning, personal and group identity.\n\nAs a columnist for \"Haaretz\" and for \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", he writes primarily on the Middle East conflict, as well as European politics and culture, on which he takes a politically and philosophically liberal perspective.\n\nCarlo Strenger was born in Basel, Switzerland to a Belgian mother and Swiss father. His family was an Orthodox Jewish one, and he was raised as a religious Jew. As a teenager, he lost his faith and became an atheist. He describes his transition from Orthodox Judaism to secular atheism as the defining experience of his life. Already an atheist, he spent a year at a yeshiva after completing high school and then started his studies in psychology and philosophy in Zürich, Switzerland. At age 29, he moved to Israel and studied philosophy and clinical psychology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, where he received his Ph.D. in 1989, and taught modern thought at the Department of Philosophy. He then moved to Tel Aviv, where he currently lives with his wife, Julia Elad-Strenger, Ph.D., a political psychologist.\n\nFrom 1986 to 2000 Carlo Strenger’s focus of research was on psychoanalysis, a theme he has returned to in his later work as well. His first Book\" Between Hermeneutics and Science\" argued that psychoanalysis had insufficient evidential foundation because of its almost exclusive reliance on clinical data, and argued that psychoanalysis needed to interact with mainstream science to avoid becoming irrelevant. He has developed this position further in \"Freud's Legacy in the Global Era\" (2016), taking into account recent developments in cognitive neurosciences and contemporary existential psychology, and also argued that psychoanalysis needs to take into account the deep social and cultural changes, partially due to globalization, that shape today's patients' lives, a theme he has written extensively about in the last twenty years (see section below).\n\nDuring the 1990s he was in private practice in Tel Aviv, while teaching as an adjunct professor at Tel Aviv University. He aimed at combining psychoanalytic and existentialist motifs in his clinical work and presented his existential psychoanalytic perspective in \"Individuality, the Impossible Project\" (1998).\n\nSome critics saw the book as a major contribution to psychoanalysis, arguing that Strenger’s perspective on the self as an emerging creation rather than pre-existing entity was philosophically and clinically revolutionary. Others took issue with Strenger’s very liberal approach towards sexual perversion and argued that his respect for the patient’s subjectivity made him underestimate some of his patients’ pathologies.\n\nFrom 2000 onward, Carlo Strenger has researched the impact of globalization on personal identity and meaning. He has written a number of papers and two books on the topic, \"The Designed Self\" and \"The Fear of Insignificance\". He speaks regularly about globalisation and world-citizenship, among other issues at TEDX Jaffa 2012.\n\nIn his\" The Designed Self\" (2004) he argued that Generation X’s experience of life was very different from that of earlier generation. No longer suffering from suffocating taboos, GenXers were faced with a fluid world and great pressure to succeed.\n\nThe self had become an endless experiment, and GenXers expected to have spectacular lives in which professional success needed to be combined with experimentation in the domains of sexuality, lifestyle and shaping the body almost at will. Strenger argued that one of the problems of this generation was that it no longer felt rooted in deep cultural traditions, and instead turned to popular culture for guidance. Strenger’s account combined individual case-studies with interpretations coming from a variety of disciplines like psychoanalysis, existential psychology, sociology and cultural criticism.\n\nSome critics saw the book as an innovative and thought-provoking interpretation of the experience and identity of a generation that had grown into the world of global markets and communication networks. Others thought that Strenger was too pluralist and open in his interpretive approach and that he did not offer an integrated theoretical perspective.\n\nStrenger has also researched a number of other implications of the changing global order. He has proposed to rethink midlife transition in view of increased life expectancy, and argues that midlife change must become a cultural norm in \"The Existential Necessity of Midlife-Change\" a much quoted article in the \"Harvard Business Review\". This requires the ability to assess ones weaknesses and strength objectively to make realistic decisions, a process that he has called \"active self-acceptance\".\n\nIn his \"The Fear of Insignificance: Searching for Meaning in the Twenty-first Century\" Strenger argues that a new species he calls Homo Globalis, defined by its intimate connection to the global infotainment network, has emerged. Homo Globalis lives in a culture that celebrates spectacular achievement and preaches that everything is possible, as reflected in Nike's slogan \"Just do it!\". Alternately Homo Globalis seeks solace in pop-spirituality and scientifically unfounded self-help precepts, neither of which offer any lasting relief from the fear of insignificance.\n\nUsing findings of existential psychology, Strenger argues that it becoming progressively more difficult for Homo Globalis to maintain stable self-esteem, because every achievement is compared to the spectacular success stories publicized by the media. Strenger attacks the fashionable relativism of pop-spirituality, claiming that this actually prevents Homo Globalis from attaining a stable worldview.\n\nAs an alternative to the myth of \"Just do it\" and the precepts of pop-spirituality, Strenger suggests a concept of \"active self-acceptance\", in which persons achieve a sense of selfhood and their personal mission through a sustained quest for self-knowledge. Strenger’s position, while politically liberal, is culturally conservative, and his remedy for the malaise of Homo Globalis is a return to the ideal of liberal education. He claims that only sustained intellectual investment in a reasonably based world-view can give Homo Globalis a stable sense of meaning and identity.\n\n\"The Fear of Insignificance\" has been translated into a number of languages including French, Italian, Portuguese and Korean. Strenger writes on the topic of The Fear of Insignificance in a blog called \"Homo Globalis\" at \"Psychology Today\", and has given extensive interviews on the topic.\n\nStrenger has been interested in modern Jewish identity, particularly in modern Jewish Universalism, and has written about it in a variety of publications. In \"The Fear of Insignificance\" (2011) he has worked out a psychology of world-citizenship. To what extent are humans able to widen their ability for empathy and concern beyond the culture of their upbringing? He claims that the development of modern Jewish Universalism provides an interesting paradigm for this identity, and has portrayed Sigmund Freud, Hannah Arendt, Isaiah Berlin, Leo Strauss and Philip Roth as examples. In his \"Israel, Einführung in ein schwieriges Land\" (Suhrkamp 2011), he has argued that Jewish Universalist ethics is currently in conflict with dominant nationalist tendencies in Israeli politics. In \"Freud's Legacy in the Global Era\" (2016) Strenger has further developed his analysis of world citizenship through his concept of \"New Cosmopolitans\", and has elaborated on Freud as a paradigm of Jewish Universalist identity.\n\nStrenger has been publicly involved in Israeli politics and culture since the late 1990s when he represented Israel’s left in a weekly radio talk show, in 2003 elections he was on the strategy team of the Labor party. He joined the Permanent Monitoring Panel on Terrorism of the World Federation of Scientists in 2004, the Center for the Study of Terrorism at John Jay College at CUNY in 2012 and has written academic analyses of the Middle Eastern Conflict from the point of view of Existential Psychology.\n\nThe German publisher Suhrkamp has published his psychopolitical analysis of Israeli politics and society, \"Israel, Einführung in ein schwieriges Land\" (Israel, Introduction to a difficult Country), and Strenger has given extensive interviews on Israeli politics in the German media. Strenger's central claim is that Israel must be understood as a belated country that is currently in a culture war about its identity, with central issues like the relation of religion and state as yet unsolved. He also analyzes the complex, guilt-ridden relation between Europe and Israel, and claims that the Middle Eastern conflict is, among others, intractable because of the exclusive claim of monotheistic religions to absolute truth.\n\nSince 2007 Carlo Strenger has been a columnist for Israel’s leading liberal Newspaper \"Haaretz\", and for \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\", and writes occasionally in Britain’s \"The Guardian\",\"The New York Times\" and \"Foreign Policy\" and blogs on the \"Huffington Post\".\n\nStrenger is a proponent of the two-state solution, i.e. he claims that the only way to end the Middle Eastern Conflict is establishing a Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital alongside Israel. His criticisms of Israel’s settlement policies are often quite pronounced, and he sees Israel’s failure to engage with the Arab League Peace Initiative as an indication of political and strategic short-sightedness. But since the end of 2011 he has expressed growing skepticism that the two state solution can still be implemented given Israel's move to the right and Palestinian's ineffective leadership.\n\nNevertheless, he also criticized Palestinian self-representation as pure victims, and calls for responsible Palestinian leadership to move towards credible peace proposals. He also strongly attacks attempts to delegitimize Israel's existence.\n\nStrenger has written sharply critical analyses of the involvement of religion in Israeli politics and claims that Israel needs to adopt the secular model of France and the US to avoid constant clashes and to stop what he sees as an ongoing culture war in Israel.\n\nBut Strenger has also been critical of the failure of Israel’s left to deal with the events leading from the end of the Oslo Process to the second Intifada and the rise of Hamas. He sees this failure as a symptom of what he calls the ‘Standard Left Explanatory System’ that evolved in Europe in the 1960s, which assumes that all ills in the non-Western world are a function of Western wrongdoing, and never ascribes responsibility to non-Western agents like Islamic countries and groupings.\n\nStrenger describes himself as a classical European Liberal, and claims that his political views are application of this liberal position to Israeli politics and the Israel-Palestine conflict. But some of his critics from the Israeli right categorize him as belonging to the extreme left. Strenger is an advocate of a liberal form of Zionism reaching back to Ahad Ha'am and has developed this vision in an essay entitled Knowledge-Nation Israel and a number of opinion articles.\n\nHe believes that, as of 2015, there are three Israeli political parties which \"are fully committed to Israel as a Western, liberal democracy with separation of state and religion and fully equal rights for all citizens independent of ethnicity and religion: The Zionist Union, Yesh Atid and Meretz...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31989255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31989255", "title": "Crime in Bulgaria", "text": "Crime in Bulgaria\n\nCrime in Bulgaria is combated by the Bulgarian police and other agencies. The United States Department of State’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security ranks Bulgaria’s crime rating as High.\n\nIn 2016, Bulgaria had a murder rate of 1.8 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 155 murders in Bulgaria in 2016.\n\nContract killings by organized crime was a problem but mostly decreased following the arrest of five “Killers” gang members starting in 2010. In 2014, another “Killers” group was suspected of being responsible for the contract killing of Customs officers in 1998. In 2014, four contract murders that targeted criminals were reported. One suspect was eventually arrested.\n\nCorruption is a problem in Bulgaria. In 2011, a survey showed that one out of every four Bulgarians who dealt with doctors, police officers, customs officials or judges offered money, a gift or a favour to see their problems solved.\n\nIn 2006 the European Commission established goals for Bulgaria to improve its fight against corruption and organised crime. In the 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index, Bulgaria ranked 86th out of 182 countries. They scored a 3.3 with 10 the highest possible.\n\nCorruption is viewed as an obstacle to doing business in Bulgaria. Kickbacks and bribes are a norm in the public procurement sector, a practice which decreases opportunities for foreign investors. Domestic companies sometimes face demands for payments or bribes when they register their business or try to get access to public utilities.\n\nBulgaria’s criminal code outlaws many types of corruption, but enforcement of the laws is weak.\n\nBulgaria’s voters will vote in a parliamentary election on March 26, 2017. This is the country’s third major election since 2013. According to Transparency International Bulgaria, “Bulgarian citizens are disappointed with the functioning of institutions.”\n\nThe Corruption Perceptions Index, published by Transparency International, scores countries on how corrupt their public sectors are viewed[null .] Countries are ranked from 0 (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean). Bulgaria’s 2016 score was 41. Among the 176 countries scored, Bulgaria was ranked number 75—tied with Kuwait, Tunisia and Turkey.\n\nThe table shows Bulgaria’s scores between 2012 and 2016:\nIn 2006 the European Commission established goals for Bulgaria to improve its fight against corruption and organised crime. These goals were based on the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, and opinions expressed by EU member states. The Commission noted specific problematic areas in the accountability and efficiency of the judicial and law enforcement systems.\n\nThe European Commission adopted a series of specific benchmarks for Bulgaria to reach:\n\nCorporate raiding is the practice of illegally taking over a company via manipulation of government power. It has three main components:\nIn 2014, Corporate Commercial Bank—the country’s fourth largest bank whose financial portfolio made up ten percent of Bulgaria’s GDP—was hit by a bank run after prosecutors and the media televised a raid of the bank’s offices. Soon thereafter, criminal charges were filed against the bank’s owner, Tzevetan Vassilev. Many officials believe the bank run was organized by a group of senior-level government officials. After the bank run, the bank collapsed, “causing a financial crisis in the country and widespread economic hardship for Bulgarian citizens.”\n\nAccording to \"Balkan Business Wire\", “Between 2013 and 2014, the country of Bulgaria saw one of its largest and most successful banks demolished by a trio of a corrupt judiciary, corrupt media, and corrupt government officials in a classic corporate raiding scheme.”\n\nCorporate Commercial Bank’s financial portfolio made up ten percent of the Bulgaria’s GDP. After the corporate raiding scheme was carried out, the bank was shut down, its assets were stolen, and depositors lost their savings.\n\nBulgarian organised crime groups are involved in a wide range of activities, including drug trafficking, cigarette smuggling, human trafficking, prostitution, illicit antiquities trafficking, extortion (often under the cover of ostensible security and insurance companies) and the arms trade. They appear to have connections with the Russian Mafia, Serbian Mafia, and the Italian Cosa Nostra.\n\nBulgaria is a source and, to a lesser extent, a transit and destination country for women and children who are subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced prostitution and men, women, and children subjected to conditions of forced labor.\n\nThe city of Varna is known to be the main hub for Bulgarian organized crime. Some sectors of the economy, including gambling, corporate security, tourism, real estate, and professional sports, are believed to be controlled in part by business groups with links to Communist-era secret services or the military; the TIM group, based in Varna, is one example.\n\n"}
{"id": "69801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69801", "title": "Croats", "text": "Croats\n\nCroats (; , ) or Croatians are a nation and South Slavic ethnic group native to Croatia. Croats mainly live in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but are also recognized minorities in such countries as Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, and Slovenia. \n\nDue to political, social and economic reasons, many Croats migrated to North and South America as well as Australia and New Zealand, establishing a diaspora. Thousands did so as war criminals, particularly to Argentina, Austria, Chile, and Paraguay in the aftermath of World War II, with grassroots assistance from their diasporae and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nCroats are mostly Roman Catholics. The Croatian language is official in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the European Union, and is a recognised minority language within Croatian autochthonous communities and minorities in Montenegro, Austria (Burgenland), Italy (Molise), Romania (Carașova, Lupac) and Serbia (Vojvodina).\n\nEvidence is rather scarce for the period between the 7th and 8th centuries, CE. Archaeological evidence shows population continuity in coastal Dalmatia and Istria. In contrast, much of the Dinaric hinterland appears to have been depopulated, as virtually all hilltop settlements, from Noricum to Dardania, were abandoned (only few appear destroyed) in the early 7th century. Although the dating of the earliest Slavic settlements is still disputed, there is a hiatus of almost a century. The origin, timing and nature of the Slavic migrations remain controversial, however, all available evidence points to the nearby Danubian and Carpathian regions.\n\nThe ethnonym \"Croat\" is first attested during the 9th century CE, in the charter of Duke Trpimir; and indeed begins to be widely attested throughout central and eastern Europe during the 9th and 10th centuries. Much uncertainty revolves around the exact circumstances of their appearance given the scarcity of literary sources during the 7th and 8th century \"Dark Ages\".\n\nTraditionally, scholarship has placed the arrival of the Croats in the 7th century, primarily on the basis of the later Byzantine document \"De Administrando Imperio\". As such, the arrival of the Croats was seen as a second wave of Slavic migrations, which liberated Dalmatia from Avar hegemony. However, as early as the 1970s, scholars questioned the reliability of Porphyrogenitus' work, written as it was in the 10th century. Rather than being an accurate historical account, \"De Administrando Imperio\" more accurately reflects the political situation during the 10th century. It mainly served as Byzantine propaganda praising Emperor Heraclius for repopulating the Balkans (previously devastated by the Avars) with Croats (and Serbs), who were seen by the Byzantines as tributary peoples living on what had always been 'Roman land'.\n\nScholars have hypothesized the name Croat (\"Hrvat\") may be Iranian, thus suggesting that the Croatians were possibly a Sarmatian tribe from the Pontic region who were part of a larger movement at the same time that the Slavs were moving toward the Adriatic. The major basis for this connection was the perceived similarity between \"Hrvat\" and inscriptions from the Tanais dated to the 2nd and 3rd centuries CE, mentioning the name \"Khoro(u)athos\". Similar arguments have been made for an alleged Gothic-Croat link. Whilst there is indeed possible evidence of population continuity between Gothic and Croatian times in parts of Dalmatia, the idea of a Gothic origin of Croats was more rooted in 20th century Ustaše political aspirations than historical reality.\n\nContemporary scholarship views the rise of \"Croats\" as an autochthonous, Dalmatian response to the demise of the Avar khanate and the encroachment of Frankish and Byzantine Empires into northern Dalmatia. They appear to have been based around Nin and Klis, down to the Cetina and south of Liburnia. Here, concentrations of the \"Old Croat culture\" abound, marked by some very wealthy warrior burials dating to the 9th century CE.\n\nOther, distinct polities also existed near the Croat duchy. These included the Guduscans (based in Liburnia), the Narentines (around the Cetina and Neretva) and the Sorabi (Serbs) who ruled some other eastern parts of ex-Roman \"Dalmatia\". Also prominent in the territory of future Croatia was the polity of Prince Liutevid, who ruled the territories between the Drava and Sava rivers (\"Pannonia Inferior\"), centred from his fort at Sisak. Although Duke Liutevid and his people are commonly seen as a \"Pannonian Croats\", he is, due to the lack of \"evidence that they had a sense of Croat identity\" referred to as \"dux Pannoniae Inferioris\", or simply a Slav, by contemporary sources. However, soon, the Croats became the dominant local power in northern Dalmatia, absorbing Liburnia and expanding their name by conquest and prestige. In the south, while having periods of independence, the Naretines also \"merged\" with Croats later under control of Croatian Kings.\nWith such expansion, Croatia soon became dominant power and absorb other polities between Frankish, Bulgarian and Byzantine empire. Although the Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja has been dismissed as an unreliable record, the mentioned \"Red Croatia\" suggests that Croatian clans and families might have settled as far south as Duklja/Zeta and city of Drač in today's Albania.\n\nThe lands which constitute modern Croatia fell under three major geographic-politic zones during the Middle Ages, which were influenced by powerful neighbour Empires – notably the Byzantines, the Avars and later Magyars, Franks and Bulgars. Each vied for control of the Northwest Balkan regions. Nevertheless, two independent Slavic dukedoms emerged sometime during the 9th century: the Croat Duchy and Principality of Lower Pannonia.\n\nHaving been under Avar control, lower Pannonia became a march of the Carolingian Empire around 800. Aided by Vojnomir in 796, the first named Slavic Duke of Pannonia, the Franks wrested control of the region from the Avars before totally destroying the Avar realm in 803. After the death of Charlemagne in 814, Frankish influence decreased on the region, allowing Prince Ljudevit Posavski to raise a rebellion in 819. The Frankish margraves sent armies in 820, 821 and 822, but each time they failed to crush the rebels. Aided by Borna the Guduscan, the Franks eventually defeated Ljudevit, who withdrew his forces to the Serbs and conquered them, according to the Frankish Annals.\n\nFor much of the subsequent period, Savia was probably directly ruled by the Carinthian Duke Arnulf, the future East Frankish King and Emperor. However, Frankish control was far from smooth. The Royal Frankish Annals mention several Bulgar raids, driving up the Sava and Drava rivers, as a result of a border dispute with the Franks, from 827. By a peace treaty in 845, the Franks were confirmed as rulers over Slavonia, whilst Srijem remained under Bulgarian clientage. Later, the expanding power of Great Moravia also threatened Frankish control of the region. In an effort to halt their influence, the Franks sought alliance with the Magyars, and elevated the local Slavic leader Braslav in 892, as a more independent Duke over lower Pannonia.\n\nIn 896 his rule stretched from Vienna and Budapest to southern Croat dutchies, and included almost whole of ex-Roman Pannonian provinces (whole 4). He probably died 900 fighting against his former allies, the Magyars. The subsequent history of Savia again becomes mirky, and historians are not sure who controlled Savia during much of the 10th century. However, it is likely that the ruler Tomislav, the first crowned King, was able to exert much control over Savia and adjacent areas during his reign. It is indeed at this time that sources first refer to a \"Pannonian Croatia\", appearing in the 10th century Byzantine work \"De Administrando Imperio\".\n\nIn the meantime, the Dalmatian Croats were recorded to have been subject to the Kingdom of Italy under Lothair I, since 828. The Croatian Prince Mislav (835–845) built up a formidable navy, and in 839 signed a peace treaty with Pietro Tradonico, doge of Venice. The Venetians soon proceeded to battle with the independent Slavic pirates of the Pagania region, but failed to defeat them. The Bulgarian king Boris I (called by the Byzantine Empire Archont of Bulgaria after he made Christianity the official religion of Bulgaria) also waged a lengthy war against the Dalmatian Croats, trying to expand his state to the Adriatic.\n\nThe Croatian Prince Trpimir I (845–864) succeeded Mislav. In 854, there was a great battle between Trpimir's forces and the Bulgars. Neither side emerged victorious, and the outcome was the exchange of gifts and the establishment of peace. Trpimir I managed to consolidate power over Dalmatia and much of the inland regions towards Pannonia, while instituting counties as a way of controlling his subordinates (an idea he picked up from the Franks). The first known written mention of the Croats, dates form 4 March 852, in statute by Trpimir. Trpimir is remembered as the initiator of the Trpimirović dynasty, that ruled in Croatia, with interruptions, from 845 until 1091. After his death, an uprising was raised by a powerful nobleman from Knin – Domagoj, and his son Zdeslav was exiled with his brothers, Petar and Muncimir to Constantinople.\n\nFacing a number of naval threats by Saracens and Byzantine Empire, the Croatian Prince Domagoj (864–876) built up the Croatian navy again and helped the coalition of emperor Louis II and the Byzantine to conquer Bari in 871. During Domagoj's reign piracy was a common practice, and he forced the Venetians to start paying tribute for sailing near the eastern Adriatic coast. After Domagoj's death, Venetian's chronicles named him \"The worst duke of Slavs\", while Pope John VIII referred to Domagoj in letters as \"Famous duke\". Domagoj's son, of unknown name, ruled shortly between 876 and 878 with his brothers. They continued the rebellion, attacked the western Istrian towns in 876, but were subsequently defeated by the Venetian navy. Their ground forces defeated the Pannonian duke Kocelj (861–874) who was suzerain to the Franks, and thereby shed the Frankish vassal status. Wars of Domagoj and his son liberated Dalmatian Croats from supreme Franks rule. Zdeslav deposed him in 878 with the help of the Byzantines. He acknowledged the supreme rule of Byzantine Emperor Basil I. In 879, the Pope ask for help from prince Zdeslav for an armed escort for his delegates across southern Dalmatia and Zahumlje, but on early May 879, Zdeslav was killed near Knin in an uprising led by Branimir, a relative of Domagoj, instigated by the Roman Pope fearing Byzantine power.\n\nBranimir's (879–892) own actions were approved from the Holy See to bring the Croats further away from the influence of Byzantium and closer to Rome. Duke Branimir wrote to Pope John VIII affirming this split from Byzantine and commitment to the Roman Papacy. During the solemn divine service in St. Peter's church in Rome in 879, Pope gave his blessing to the duke and the whole Croatian people, about which he informed Branimir in his letters, in which Branimir was recognized as the Duke of the Croats (\"Dux Chroatorum\"). During his reign, Croatia retained its sovereignty from both Holy Roman imperial and Byzantine rule, and became a fully recognized state. After Branimir's death, Prince Muncimir (892–910), Zdeslav's brother, took control of Dalmatia and ruled it independently of both Rome and Byzantium as \"divino munere Croatorum dux\" (with God's help, duke of Croats). In Dalmatia, duke Tomislav (910–928) succeeded Muncimir. Tomislav successfully repelled Magyar mounted invasions of the Arpads, expelled them over the Sava River, and united (western) Pannonian and Dalmatian Croats into one state.\n\nTomislav (910–928) became king of Croatia by 925. The chief piece of evidence that Tomislav was crowned king comes in the form of a letter dated 925, surviving only in 16th-century copies, from Pope John X calling Tomislav \"rex Chroatorum\". According to \"De Administrando Imperio\", Tomislav's army and navy could have consisted approximately 100,000 infantry units, 60,000 cavaliers, and 80 larger (\"sagina\") and 100 smaller warships (\"condura\"), but generally isn't taken as credible. Croatian Kingdom as an ally of Byzantine Empire was in conflict with the rising Bulgarian Empire ruled by Tsar Simeon I. In 923, due to a deal of Pope John X and a Patriarch of Constantinopole, the sovereignty of Byzantine coastal cities in Dalmatia came under Tomislav's Governancy. The war escalated on 27 May 927, in the battle of the Bosnian Highlands, after Serbs were conquered and some fled to the Croatian Kingdom. There Croats under leadership of their king Tomislav completely defeated Bulgarian army led by military commander Alogobotur, and stopped Simeon's extension westwards. The central town in the Duvno field was named Tomislavgrad (\"Tomislav's town\") in his honour in the 20th century.\n\nTomislav was succeeded by Trpimir II (928–935), and Krešimir I (935–945), this period, on the whole, however, is obscure. Miroslav (945–949) was killed by his ban Pribina during an internal power struggle, losing part of islands and coastal cities. Krešimir II (949–969) kept particularly good relations with the Dalmatian cities, while his son Stjepan Držislav (969–997) established better relations with the Byzantine Empire and received a formal authority over Dalmatian cities. His three sons, Svetoslav (997–1000), Krešimir III (1000–1030) and Gojslav (1000–1020), opened a violent contest for the throne, weakening the state and further losing control. Krešimir III and his brother Gojslav co-ruled from 1000 until 1020, and attemppted to restore control over lost Dalmatian cities now under Venetian control. Krešimir was succeeded by his son Stjepan I (1030–1058), who tried to reinforce the alliance with Byzantine when 1032 sent a segment of naval fleet in war against Arabs, in favour for tolerance about conquering Zadar from Venice, another Byzantine ally. He did conquer it, but the circumstances changed later and lost it.\n\nKrešimir IV (1058–1074) managed to get the Byzantine Empire to confirm him as the supreme ruler of the Dalmatian cities. Croatia under Krešimir IV was composed of twelve counties and was slightly larger than in Tomislav's time, and included the closest southern Dalmatian duchy of Pagania. From the outset, he continued the policies of his father, but was immediately commanded by Pope Nicholas II first in 1059 and then in 1060 to reform the Croatian church in accordance with the Roman rite. This was especially significant to the papacy in the aftermath of the Great Schism of 1054.\nHe was succeeded by Dmitar Zvonimir, who was of the Svetoslavić branch of the House of Trpimirović, and a Ban of Slavonia (1064–1075). He was crowned on 8 October 1076 at Solin in the Basilica of Saint Peter and Moses (known today as \"Hollow Church\") by a representative of Pope Gregory VII.\n\nHe was in conflict with dukes of Istria, while historical records \"Annales Carinthiæ\" and \"Chronica Hungarorum\" note he invaded Carinthia to aid Hungary in war during 1079/83, but this is disputed. Unlike Petar Krešimir IV, he was also an ally of the Normans, with whom he joined in wars against Byzantium. He married in 1063 Helen of Hungary, the daughter of King Bela I of the Hungarian Árpád dynasty, and the sister of the future King Ladislaus I. As King Zvonimir died in 1089 in unknown circumstances, with no direct heir to succeed him, Stjepan II ( 1089–1091) last of the main Trpimirović line came to the throne at an old age and reigned for two years.\n\nAfter his death civil war and unrest broke out shortly afterward as northern nobles decided Ladislaus I for the Croatian King. In 1093, southern nobles elected a new ruler, King Petar Svačić ( 1093–1097), who managed to unify the Kingdom around his capital of Knin. His army resisted repelling Hungarian assaults, and restored Croatian rule up to the river Sava. He reassembled his forces in Croatia and advanced on Gvozd Mountain, where he met the main Hungarian army led by King Coloman I of Hungary. In 1097, in the Battle of Gvozd Mountain, the last native king Peter was killed and the Croats were decisively defeated (because of this, the mountain was this time renamed to Petrova Gora, \"Peter's Mountain\"). In 1102, Coloman returned to the Kingdom of Croatia in force, and negotiated with the Croatian feudal lords resulting in joining of Hungarian and Croatian crowns (with the crown of Dalmatia held separate from that of Croatia).\n\nIn the union with Hungary, institutions of separate Croatian statehood were maintained through the Sabor (an assembly of Croatian nobles) and the ban (viceroy). In addition, the Croatian nobles retained their lands and titles. Coloman retained the institution of the Sabor and relieved the Croatians of taxes on their land. Coloman's successors continued to crown themselves as Kings of Croatia separately in Biograd na Moru. The Hungarian king also introduced a variant of the feudal system. Large fiefs were granted to individuals who would defend them against outside incursions thereby creating a system for the defence of the entire state. However, by enabling the nobility to seize more economic and military power, the kingdom itself lost influence to the powerful noble families. In Croatia the Šubić were one of the oldest Croatian noble families and would become particularly influential and important, ruling area between Zrmanja and Krka rivers. The local noble family from Krk island (latter took surname Frankopan) is often considered the second most important medieval family, as ruled over northern Adriatic and are responsible for adoption of one of oldest European statutes, Law codex of Vinodol (1288). Both families gave many native bans of Croatia. Other powerful families were Nelipić from Dalmatian Zagora (14th–15th centuries); Kačić who ruled over Pagania and were famous for piracy and wars against Venice (12th–13th centuries); Kurjaković family, a branch of old Croatian noble family Gusić from Krbava (14th–16th centuries); Babonići who ruled from western Kupa to eastern Vrbas and Bosna rivers, and were bans of Slavonia (13th–14th centuries); Iločki family who ruled over Slavonian stronghold-cities, and in 15th century rose to power. During this period, the Knights Templar and the Knights Hospitaller also acquired considerable property and assets in Croatia.\n\nIn the second half of the 13th century, during the Árpád and Anjou dynasty struggle, Šubić family became hugely powerful under Paul I Šubić of Bribir who was the longest Croatian Ban (1274–1312), conquered Bosnia and declared himself \"Lord of all of Bosnia\" (1299–1312), appointed his brother Mladen I Šubić as Ban of Bosnia (1299–1304), and helped Charles I from House of Anjou to be the King of Hungary. After his death in 1312, his son Mladen II Šubić was the Ban of Bosnia (1304–1322) and Ban of Croatia (1312–1322). The kings from House of Anjou intended to strengthen the kingdom by uniting the power and control in their hands, but to do so had to diminish the power of the higher nobility. Already Charles I tried to crash the aristocratic particularism, intention finished by his son Louis the Great (1342–1382), relying on lower nobility and towns. Both ruled without the parliament, and inner nobility struggles only helped them in their intentions. This led to Mladen's defeat at the battle of Bliska in 1322 by a coalition of several Croatian noblemen and Dalmatian coastal towns with support of King himself, exchange of Šubić's castle of Ostrovica for Zrin Castle in Central Croatia (thus this branch was named Zrinski) in 1347. Eventually, Babonić and Nelipić families also succumbed to king's offensive against nobility, but with the centralization of power, Louis managed to force Venice by the Treaty of Zadar in 1358 to give up their possessions in Dalmatia. When king Louis died, without successor the question of succession remained open. The kingdom once again entered the time of internal unrest. Besides King Louis's daughter Mary, Charles III of Naples as the closest king male relative pretended to the throne. In February 1386, two months after his coronation, was assassinated by order of queen Elizabeth of Bosnia. His supporters, bans John of Palisna, John Horvat and Stjepan Lacković planned a rebellion against them, and managed to capture and imprison Elizabeth and Mary. By orders of John of Palisna, Elizabeth was strangled. As the answer for that, Magyars crowned Mary's husband Sigismund of Luxembourg.\n\nWith the Ottoman invasion getting closer to Hungarian-Croatian kingdom, king Sigismund's army at the Battle of Nicopolis (1396) was catastrophically defeated, and without news about the king, then ruling Croatian ban Stjepan Lacković and nobles invited Charles III's son Ladislaus of Naples to be the new king. This resulted with Bloody Sabor of Križevci in 1397, lose of interest for the crown by Ladislaus and selling of Dalmatia to Venice in 1403, and spreading of Croatian name to the north, while of Slavonia to the east. The dynastic struggle didn't finish, and with the Ottoman invasion on Bosnia started the first short raids in Croatian territory, defended only by local nobles.\nAs the Turkish incursion into Europe started, Croatia once again became a border area between two major forces in the Balkans. Croatian military troops fought in many battles under command of Italian Franciscan priest fra John Capistrano, the Hungarian Generalissimo John Hunyadi, and Hungarian King Matthias Corvinus, like in the Hunyadi's long campaign (1443–1444), battle of Varna (1444), second battle of Kosovo (1448), and contributed to the Christian victories over the Ottomans in the siege of Belgrade (1456) and Siege of Jajce (1463). At the time they suffered a major defeat in the battle of Krbava field (Lika, Croatia) in 1493 and gradually lost increasing amounts of territory to the Ottoman Empire. Pope Leo X called Croatia the \"forefront of Christianity (Antemurale Christianitatis)\" in 1519, given that several Croatian soldiers made significant contributions to the struggle against the Ottoman Turks. Among them there were ban Petar Berislavić who won a victory at Dubica on the Una river in 1513, the captain of Senj and prince of Klis Petar Kružić, who defended the Klis Fortress for almost 25 years, captain Nikola Jurišić who deterred by a magnitude larger Turkish force on their way to Vienna in 1532, or ban Nikola Šubić Zrinski who helped save Pest from occupation in 1542 and fought in the Battle of Szigetvar in 1566. During the Ottoman conquest tens of thousands of Croats were taken in Turkey, where they became slaves.\nThe Battle of Mohács (1526) and the death of King Louis II ended Hungarian rule over Croatia. In 1526 the Hungarian parliament elected two separate kings János Szapolyai and Ferdinand I Habsburg, but the choice of the Croatian sabor at Cetin prevailed on the side of Ferdinand I, as they elected him as the new king of Croatia on 1 January 1527, uniting both lands under Habsburg rule. In return they were promised the historic rights, freedoms, laws and defence of Croatian Kingdom.\n\nHowever, the Hungarian-Croatian Kingdom was not enough well prepared and organized and the Ottoman Empire expanded further in the 16th century to include most of Slavonia, western Bosnia and Lika. For the sake of stopping the Ottoman conquering and possible assault on the capital of Vienna, the large areas of Croatia and Slavonia (even Hungary and Romania) bordering the Ottoman Empire were organized as a Military Frontier which was ruled directly from Vienna military headquarters. The invasion caused migration of Croats, and the area which became deserted was subsequently settled by Serbs, Vlachs, Germans and others. The negative effects of feudalism escalated in 1573 when the peasants in northern Croatia and Slovenia rebelled against their feudal lords due to various injustices. After the fall of Bihać fort in 1592, only small areas of Croatia remained unrecovered. The remaining were referred to as the \"reliquiae reliquiarum of the once great Croatian kingdom\".\n\nCroats stopped the Ottoman advance in Croatia at the battle of Sisak in 1593, 100 years after the defeat at Krbava field, and the short Long Turkish War ended with the Peace of Zsitvatorok in 1606, after which Croatian classes tried unsuccessfully to have their territory on the Military Frontier restored to rule by the Croatian Ban, managing only to restore a small area of lost territory but failed to regain large parts of Croatian Kingdom (present-day western Bosnia and Herzegovina), as the present-day border between the two countries is a remnant of this outcome.\n\nIn the first half of the 17th century, Croats fought in the Thirty Years' War on the side of Holy Roman Empire, mostly as light cavalry under command of imperial generalissimo Albrecht von Wallenstein. Croatian Ban, Juraj V Zrinski, also fought in the war, but died in a military camp near Bratislava, Slovakia, as he was poisoned by von Wallenstein after a verbal duel. His son, future ban and captain-general of Croatia, Nikola Zrinski, participated during the closing stages of the war.\nIn 1664, the Austrian imperial army was victorious against the Turks, but Emperor Leopold failed to capitalize on the success when he signed the Peace of Vasvár in which Croatia and Hungary were prevented from regaining territory lost to the Ottoman Empire. This caused unrest among the Croatian and Hungarian nobility which plotted against the emperor. Nikola Zrinski participated in launching the conspiracy which later became to be known as the Magnate conspiracy, but he soon died, and the rebellion was continued by his brother, Croatian ban Petar Zrinski, Fran Krsto Frankopan and Ferenc Wesselényi. Petar Zrinski, along the conspirators, went on a wide secret diplomatic negotiations with a number of nations, including Louis XIV of France, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, Sweden, the Republic of Venice and even the Ottoman Empire, to free Croatia from the Habsburg sovereignty.\n\nImperial spies uncovered the conspiracy and on 30 April 1671 executed four esteemed Croatian and Hungarian noblemen involved in it, including Zrinski and Frankopan in Wiener Neustadt. The large estates of two most powerful Croatian noble houses were confiscated and their families relocated, soon after extinguished. Between 1670 and the revolution of 1848, there would be only 2 bans of Croatian nationality. The period from 1670 to the Croatian cultural revival in the 19th century was Croatia's political dark age. Meanwhile, with the victories over Turks, Habsburgs all the more insistent they spent centralization and germanization, new regained lands in liberated Slavonia started giving to foreign families as feudal goods, at the expense of domestic element. Because of this the Croatian Sabor was losing its significance, and the nobility less attended it, yet went only to the one in Hungary.\n\nIn the 18th century, Croatia was one of the crown lands that supported Emperor Charles's \"Pragmatic Sanction\" of 1713 and supported Empress Maria Theresa in the War of the Austrian Succession of 1741–48. Subsequently, the empress made significant contributions to Croatian matters, by making several changes in the feudal and tax system, administrative control of the Military Frontier, in 1745 administratively united Slavonia with Croatia and in 1767 organized Croatian royal council with the ban on head, however, she ignored and eventually disbanded it in 1779, and Croatia was relegated to just one seat in the governing council of Hungary, held by the ban of Croatia. To fight the Austrian centralization and absolutism, Croats passed their rights to the united government in Hungary, thus to together resist the intentions from Vienna. But the connection with Hungary soon adversely affected the position of Croats, because Magyars in the spring of their nationalism tried to Magyarize Croats, and make Croatia a part of a united Hungary. Because of this pretensions, the constant struggles between Croats and Magyars emerged, and lasted until 1918. Croats were fighting in unfavorable conditions, against both Vienna and Budapest, while divided on Banska Hrvatska, Dalmatia and Military Frontier. In such a time, with the fall of the Venetian Republic in 1797, its possessions in eastern Adriatic mostly came under the authority of France which passed its rights to Austria the same year. Eight years later they were restored to France as the Illyrian Provinces, but won back to the Austrian crown 1815. Though now part of the same empire, Dalmatia and Istria were part of Cisleithania while Croatia and Slavonia were in Hungarian part of the Monarchy.\n\nIn the 19th century Croatian romantic nationalism emerged to counteract the non-violent but apparent Germanization and Magyarization. The Croatian national revival began in the 1830s with the Illyrian movement. The movement attracted a number of influential figures and produced some important advances in the Croatian language and culture. The champion of the Illyrian movement was Ljudevit Gaj who also reformed and standardized the Croatian literary language. The official language in Croatia had been Latin until 1847, when it became Croatian. The movement relied on a South Slavic and Panslavistic conception, and its national, political and social ideas were advanced at the time.\n\nBy the 1840s, the movement had moved from cultural goals to resisting Hungarian political demands. By the royal order of 11 January 1843, originating from the chancellor Metternich, the use of the Illyrian name and insignia in public was forbidden. This deterred the movement's progress but it couldn't stop the changes in the society that had already started. On 25 March 1848, was conducted a political petition \"Zahtijevanja naroda\", which program included thirty national, social and liberal principles, like Croatian national independence, annexation of Dalmatia and Military Frontier, independence from Hungary as far as finance, language, education, freedom of speech and writing, religion, nullification of serfdom etc. In the revolutions of 1848 in the Austrian Empire, the Croatian Ban Jelačić cooperated with the Austrians in quenching the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 by leading a military campaign into Hungary, successful until the Battle of Pákozd.\n\nCroatia was later subject to Hungarian hegemony under ban Levin Rauch when the Empire was transformed into a dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary in 1867. Nevertheless, Ban Jelačić had succeeded in the abolition of serfdom in Croatia, which eventually brought about massive changes in society: the power of the major landowners was reduced and arable land became increasingly subdivided, to the extent of risking famine. Many Croatians began emigrating to the New World countries in this period, a trend that would continue over the next century, creating a large Croatian diaspora.\n\nAfter the First World War and dissolution of Austria-Hungary, most Croats were united within the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, created by unification of the short-lived State of SHS with the Kingdom of Serbia. Croats became one of the constituent nations of the new kingdom. The state was transformed into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929 and the Croats were united in the new nation with their neighbors – the South Slavs-Yugoslavs.\n\nIn 1939, the Croats received a high degree of autonomy when the Banovina of Croatia was created, which united almost all ethnic Croatian territories within the Kingdom. In the Second World War, the Axis forces created the Independent State of Croatia led by the Ustaše movement which sought to create an ethnically pure Croatian state on the territory corresponding to present-day countries of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Post-WWII Yugoslavia became a federation consisting of 6 republics, and Croats became one of two \"constituent peoples\" of two – Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croats in the Serbian autonomous province of Vojvodina are one of six main ethnic groups composing this region.\n\nFollowing the democratization of society, accompanied with ethnic tensions that emerged in the post-Tito era, in 1991 the Republic of Croatia declared independence, which was followed by war with its Serb minority, backed up by Serbia-controlled Yugoslav People's Army. In the first years of the war, over 200,000 Croats were displaced from their homes as a result of the military actions. In the peak of the fighting, around 550,000 ethnic Croats were displaced altogether during the Yugoslav wars.\n\nPost-war government's policy of easing the immigration of ethnic Croats from abroad encouraged a number of Croatian descendants to return to Croatia. The influx was increased by the arrival of Croatian refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the war's end in 1995, most Croatian refugees returned to their previous homes, while some (mostly Croat refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Janjevci from Kosovo) moved into the formerly-held Serbian housing.\n\nGenetically, on the Y chromosome line, a majority (>85%) of male Croats from Croatia belong to one of the three major European Y-DNA haplogroups - I (38%-44%), R1a (27%-34%) and R1b (12.4%-15%), while a minority (>15%) mostly belongs to haplogroup E (9%), and others to haplgroups J (4.4%), N (2%), and G (1%). Genetically, on the maternal X chromosome line, a majority (>65%) of female Croats from Croatia (mainland and coast) belong to three of the eleven major European mtDNA haplogroups - H (45%), U (17.8-20.8%), J (3-11%), while a large minority (>35%) belongs to many other smaller haplogroups.\n\nThe region of modern-day Croatia may have served as a refugium for the northern populations during the last glacial maximum (LGM). The eastern Adriatic coast was much further south. The northern and the western parts of that sea were steppes and plains, while the modern Croatian islands (rich in Paleolithic archeological sites) were hills and mountains. The region had a specific role in the structuring of European, and particularly among Slavic, paternal genetic heritage, characterized by the predominance of R1a and I, and scarcity of E lineages. However, DNA can not be completely connected and used as the evidence for a specific ethnic component, but only as an indication.\n\nCroats speak Croatian, a South Slavic language of the Western South Slavic subgroup. Standard Croatian is considered a variety of Serbo-Croatian, and is mutually intelligible with the Serbian and Bosnian languages (see Differences in standard Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian) which are all based on the Shtokavian dialect.\n\nBesides Shtokavian, Croats from the Adriatic coastline speak the Chakavian dialect, while Croats from the continental northwestern part of Croatia speak the Kajkavian dialect. Vernacular texts in the Chakavian dialect first appeared in the 13th century, and Shtokavian texts appeared a century later. Standardization began in the period sometimes called \"Baroque Slavism\" in the first half of the 17th century, while some authors date it back to the end of the 15th century. The modern Neo-Shtokavian standard that appeared in the mid 18th century was the first unified Croatian literary language. Croatian is written in Gaj's Latin alphabet.\n\nThe beginning of the Croatian written language can be traced to the 9th century, when Old Church Slavonic was adopted as the language of the Divine liturgy of St. John Chrysostom and the Divine Liturgy of Saint Basil. This language was gradually adapted to non-liturgical purposes and became known as the Croatian version of Old Slavonic. The two variants of the language, liturgical and non-liturgical, continued to be a part of the Glagolitic service as late as the middle of the 19th century. The earliest known Croatian Church Slavonic Glagolitic are \"Vienna Folios\" from the late 11th/early 12th century. Until the end of the 11th century Croatian medieval texts were written in three scripts: Latin, Glagolitic, and Croatian Cyrillic (\"bosančica/bosanica\"), and also in three languages: Croatian, Latin and Old Slavonic. The latter developed into what is referred to as the Croatian variant of Church Slavonic between the 12th and 16th centuries.\n\nThe most important early monument of Croatian literacy is the Baška tablet from the late 11th century. It is a large stone tablet found in the small Church of St. Lucy, Jurandvor on the Croatian island of Krk which contains text written mostly in Chakavian, today a dialect of Croatian, and in Shtokavian script. It mentions Zvonimir, the king of Croatia at the time. However, the luxurious and ornate representative texts of Croatian Church Slavonic belong to the later era, when they coexisted with the Croatian vernacular literature. The most notable are the \"Missal of Duke Novak\" from the Lika region in northwestern Croatia (1368), \"Evangel from Reims\" (1395, named after the town of its final destination), Hrvoje's Missal from Bosnia and Split in Dalmatia (1404). and the first printed book in Croatian language, the Glagolitic Missale Romanum Glagolitice (1483).\n\nDuring the 13th century Croatian vernacular texts began to appear, the most important among them being the \"Istrian Land Survey\" of 1275 and the \"Vinodol Codex\" of 1288, both written in the Chakavian dialect.\n\nThe Shtokavian dialect literature, based almost exclusively on Chakavian original texts of religious provenance (missals, breviaries, prayer books) appeared almost a century later. The most important purely Shtokavian diaelect vernacular text is the Vatican Croatian Prayer Book (ca. 1400).\n\nBoth the language used in legal texts and that used in Glagolitic literature gradually came under the influence of the vernacular, which considerably affected its phonological, morphological and lexical systems. From the 14th and the 15th centuries, both secular and religious songs at church festivals were composed in the vernacular.\n\nCroats are predominantly Roman Catholic, and before Christianity they adhered to Slavic paganism. The earliest record of contact between the Pope and the Croats dates from a mid-7th century entry in the \"Liber Pontificalis\". Pope John IV (John the Dalmatian, 640–642) sent an abbot named Martin to Dalmatia and Istria in order to pay ransom for some prisoners and for the remains of old Christian martyrs. This abbot is recorded to have travelled through Dalmatia with the help of the Croatian leaders, and he established the foundation for the future relations between the Pope and the Croats.\n\nThe beginnings of the Christianization are also disputed in the historical texts: the Byzantine texts talk of duke Porin who started this at the incentive of emperor Heraclius (610–641), then of Duke Porga who mainly Christianized his people after the influence of missionaries from Rome, while the national tradition recalls Christianization during the rule of Dalmatian Duke Borna (810–821). It is possible that these are all renditions of the same ruler's name. The earliest known Croatian autographs from the 8th century are found in the Latin Gospel of Cividale.\n\nCuriously enough, the Croats were never obliged to use Latin—rather, they held masses in their own language and used the Glagolitic alphabet. In 1886 it arrived to the Principality of Montenegro, followed by the Kingdom of Serbia in 1914, and the Republic of Czechoslovakia in 1920, but only for feast days of the main patron saints. The 1935 concordat with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia anticipated the introduction of the Church Slavonic for all Croatian regions and throughout the entire state. \n\nThis was officially sanctioned in 1248 by Pope Innocent IV, and only later did the Latin alphabet prevail. The Latin Rite prevailed over the Byzantine Rite rather early due to numerous interventions from the Holy See. There were numerous Roman Catholic synods held in Dalmatia in the 11th century, particularly after the East-West Schism of 1054, during the course of which the use of the Latin rite was run roughshod over the Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom and the Divine Liturgy of St. Basil.\n\nThe area settled by Croats has a large diversity of historical and cultural influences, as well as diversity of terrain and geography. The coastland areas of Dalmatia and Istria were subject to Roman Empire, Venetian and Italian rule; central regions like Lika and western Herzegovina were a scene of battlefield against the Ottoman Empire, and have strong epic traditions. In the northern plains, Austro-Hungarian rule has left its marks. The most distinctive features of Croatian folklore include klapa ensembles of Dalmatia, tamburitza orchestras of Slavonia. Folk arts are performed at special events and festivals, perhaps the most distinctive being Alka of Sinj, a traditional knights' competition celebrating the victory against Ottoman Turks. The epic tradition is also preserved in epic songs sung with gusle. Various types of kolo circular dance are also encountered throughout Croatia.\n\nArchitecture in Croatia reflects influences of bordering nations. Austrian and Hungarian influence is visible in public spaces and buildings in the north and in the central regions, architecture found along coasts of Dalmatia and Istria exhibits Venetian influence. Large squares named after culture heroes, well-groomed parks, and pedestrian-only zones, are features of these orderly towns and cities, especially where large scale Baroque urban planning took place, for instance in Varaždin and Karlovac. Subsequent influence of the Art Nouveau was reflected in contemporary architecture. Along the coast, the architecture is Mediterranean with a strong Venetian and Renaissance influence in major urban areas exemplified in works of Giorgio da Sebenico and Niccolò Fiorentino such as the Cathedral of St. James in Šibenik.\nThe oldest preserved examples of Croatian architecture are the 9th-century churches, with the largest and the most representative among them being the Church of St. Donatus.\n\nBesides the architecture encompassing the oldest artworks in Croatia, there is a long history of artists in Croatia reaching to the Middle Ages. In that period the stone portal of the Trogir Cathedral was made by Radovan, representing the most important monument of Romanesque sculpture in the Balkans. The Renaissance had the greatest impact on the Adriatic Sea coast since the remainder of Croatia was embroiled in the Hundred Years' Croatian–Ottoman War. With the waning of the Ottoman Empire, art flourished during the Baroque and Rococo. The 19th and the 20th centuries brought about affirmation of numerous Croatian artisans, helped by several patrons of the arts such as bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer. Croatian artists of the period achieving worldwide renown were Vlaho Bukovac and Ivan Meštrović.\n\nThe Baška tablet, a stone inscribed with the Glagolitic alphabet found on the Krk island which is dated to 1100, is considered to be the oldest surviving prose in Croatian. The beginning of more vigorous development of Croatian literature is marked by the Renaissance and Marko Marulić. Besides Marulić, Renaissance playwright Marin Držić, Baroque poet Ivan Gundulić, Croatian national revival poet Ivan Mažuranić, novelist, playwright and poet August Šenoa, poet and writer Antun Gustav Matoš, poet Antun Branko Šimić, expressionist and realist writer Miroslav Krleža, poet Tin Ujević and novelist and short story writer Ivo Andrić are often cited as the greatest figures in Croatian literature.\n\nThe flag of Croatia consists of a red-white-blue tricolor with the Coat of Arms of Croatia in the middle. The red-white-blue tricolor was chosen as those were the colours of Pan-Slavism, popular in the 19th century.\n\nThe coat-of-arms consists of the traditional red and white squares or \"grb\", which simply means 'coat-of-arms'. It has been used to symbolise the Croats for centuries; some speculate that it was derived from Red and White Croatia, historic lands of the Croatian tribe but there is no generally accepted proof for this theory. The current design added the five crowning shields, which represent the historical regions from which Croatia originated. The red and white checkerboard has been a symbol of Croatian kings since at least the 10th century, ranging in number from 3×3 to 8×8, but most commonly 5×5, like the current coat. The oldest source confirming the coat-of-arms as an official symbol is a genealogy of the Habsburgs dating during 1512–18. In 1525 it was used on a votive medal. The oldest known example of the \"šahovnica\" (chessboard in Croatian) in Croatia is to be found on the wings of four falcons on a baptismal font donated by king Peter Krešimir IV of Croatia (1058–1074) to the Archbishop of Split.\n\nUnlike in many countries, Croatian design more commonly uses symbolism from the coat of arms, rather than from the Croatian flag. This is partly due to the geometric design of the shield which makes it appropriate for use in many graphic contexts (e.g. the insignia of Croatia Airlines or the design of the shirt for the Croatia national football team), and partly because neighbouring countries like Slovenia and Serbia use the same Pan-Slavic colours on their flags as Croatia. The Croatian interlace (\"pleter\" or \"troplet\") is also a commonly used symbol which originally comes from monasteries built between the 9th and 12th century. The interlace can be seen in various emblems and is also featured in modern Croatian military ranks and Croatian police ranks insignia.\n\nIn Croatia (the nation state), 3.9 million people identify themselves as Croats, and constitute about 90.4% of the population. Another 553,000 live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they are one of the three constituent ethnic groups, predominantly living in Western Herzegovina, central Bosnia and Posavina. The minority in Serbia number about 70,000, mostly in Vojvodina, where also vast majority of the Šokci consider themselves Croats, as well as many Bunjevci (the latter, as well as other nationalities, settled the vast, abandoned area after the Ottoman retreat; this Croat subgroup originates from the south, mostly from the region of Bačka). Smaller Croat autochthonous minorities exist in Slovenia (mainly in Primorska, Prekmurje and in the Metlika area in Dolenjska regions – 35,000 Croats), Montenegro (mostly in the Bay of Kotor – 6,800 Croats), and a regional community in Kosovo called Janjevci who nationally identify as Croats. In the 1991 census Croats consisted 19.8% of the overall population of former Yugoslavia; there were around 4.6 million Croats in the entire country.\n\nThe subgroups of Croats are commonly based on regional affiliation, like \"Dalmatians\", \"Slavonians\", \"Zagorci\", \"Istrani\" etc., while outside Croatia there exist several ethnic groups : \"Šokci\" (Croatia, Serbia, Hungary), \"Bunjevci\" (Serbia, Hungary), \"Burgenland Croats\" (Austria), \"Molise Croats\" (Italy), \"Croats of Boka Kotorska or Bokelji\" (Montenegro), \"Raci\" (Hungary), \"Krashovans\" (Romania), \"Janjevci\" (Kosovo).\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are currently 4–4.5 million Croats in diaspora throughout the world. The Croat diaspora was the consequence of either mostly economic or political (coercion or expulsions) reasons:\n\nThe count for diaspora is approximate because of incomplete statistical records and naturalization. Overseas, the United States contains the largest Croatian emigrant group (414,714 according to the 2010 census), mostly in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois and California, with a sizable community in Alaska, followed by Australia (133,268 according to the 2016 census, with concentrations in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth) and Canada (133,965 according to the 2016 census, mainly in Southern Ontario, British Columbia and Alberta). \n\nVarious estimations put the total number of Americans and Canadians with at least some Croatian ancestry at 2 million, many of whom do not identify as such in the countries' censuses. \n\nCroats have also emigrated in several waves to Latin America, mostly to South America: chiefly Chile, Argentina, and Brazil; estimates of their number vary wildly, from 150,000 up to 500,000. \n\nThere are also smaller groups of Croatian descendants in the Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, South Africa, New Zealand, Mexico, and South Korea. The most important organisations of the Croatian diaspora are the Croatian Fraternal Union, Croatian Heritage Foundation and the Croatian World Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41248014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41248014", "title": "Cyrus Fees", "text": "Cyrus Fees\n\nCyrus Fees (born March 15, 1982) is a television and media personality based in The United States of America (USA). Cyrus Fees is the play-by-play commentator for Fight Nights Global, EFC Worldwide (Africa), and Brave Combat Federation. He has worked as ring announcer for EFC Worldwide (Africa), Cage Warriors Fighting Championship and several regional U.S. promotions. Additional media work includes television hosting work and news anchor duties.\n\nBetween 2010-2014 Cyrus Fees and Casey Oxendine co-hosted MMA: Inside The Cage (MMA: ITC) on Tuff TV, Fight Now TV and youtube. The show grew into a global \"around the grounds\" of combat sports promotions from 6 continents. The Dirty Dozen Clips of the Week featured on MMA: ITC from 2010 and was a popular segment of Knockouts and submission victories. Viewers voted via the website for the best clip. Winning fighters from around the globe received a prize package from MMA: ITC sponsors including Elevation Training Mask.\n\nFees was the first News anchor for the newly relaunched news program on ABC 19 WKPT-TV News from 2011-2012. Cyrus decided to pursue full-time commentary and ring announcing after his tenure at WKPT-TV.\n\nAfter its debut in 2012, Russian combat television program The Hip Show, will be produced into an international series for global release in 2014. \"Hip Show: Arena Combat\" is a teams based MMA concept that features a Gladiators style obstacle course. Cyrus Fees and Casey Oxendine initially provided English language commentary for the Russian series which was featured on AXS TV in March 2014. The international series features the same 2 on 2 team MMA concept and begun filming in the USA in August 2014, with Fees and Oxendine as co-owners. The first international show was featured on In Demand PPV during October 2014.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2014, Cyrus held the ring announcing duties at Xtreme Fighting Championships, based in the USA and Brazil. The broadcasts were seen on AXS TV, RedeTV!, and HBO.\n\nIn 2012, Cyrus debuted with the company on their inaugural event, Abu Dhabi Warriors 1. At Abu Dhabi Warriors 2, he was also given the play-by-play duties. Fees continued to do both ring announcing and commentary for the promotion for all events.\n\nIn 2013 Cyrus featured on CWFC 54 in the absence of veteran ring announcer Joe A. Martinez and broadcast live via Fight Now TV and syndicated globally on ESPN International.\n\nA regular visitor to Australia in 2013 Fees provided play-by-play commentary on the Australian Fighting Championship (AFC) and Combat8 (C8) promotions. Fees provided play-by-play commentary for AFC 4,5 and 6, which were streamed live via epicentre.tv and C8:03/04 featured on Fox Sports (Australia).\n\nOn July 24, 2015, Fees was announced as the play-by-play commentator for professional wrestling promotion Global Force Wrestling's \"Amped\" program.\n\nFees joined the EFC Worldwide promotion in April 2015 as play-by-play commentator. At EFC 57, the promotion asked Fees to step in as hexagon announcer, as well as still provide the event commentary. At present, Cyrus Fees is still providing both commentary and hexagon announcing.\n\nFees was announced as play-by-play commentator for the new Brave Combat Federation promotion based out of Bahrain. During his tenure, Fees has provided commentary alongside notable fighters including Frankie Edgar, Jose \"Shorty\" Torres, and Alex \"Extremo\" Soto. BRAVE broadcasts are currently featured in over 42 major countries.\n\nAt ACB 54 in Manchester, England, Fees stepped in as cage announcer for the Absolute Championship Berkut promotion. Cyrus served in the position throughout 2017, working in Russia, Canada, Brazil, Belarus, Poland, Australia, and the UK. Fees parted ways with ACB to begin working with Fight Nights Global.\n"}
{"id": "8227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8227", "title": "Danish language", "text": "Danish language\n\nDanish (; \"dansk\" , \"dansk sprog\" ) is a North Germanic language spoken by around six million people, principally in Denmark and in the region of Southern Schleswig in northern Germany, where it has minority language status. Also, minor Danish-speaking communities are found in Norway, Sweden, Spain, the United States, Canada, Brazil, and Argentina. Due to immigration and language shift in urban areas, around 15–20% of the population of Greenland speak Danish as their first language.\n\nAlong with the other North Germanic languages, Danish is a descendant of Old Norse, the common language of the Germanic peoples who lived in Scandinavia during the Viking Era. Danish, together with Swedish, derives from the East Norse dialect group, while the Middle Norwegian language before the influence of Danish and Norwegian Bokmål are classified as West Norse along with Faroese and Icelandic. A more recent classification based on mutual intelligibility separates modern spoken Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish as \"mainland Scandinavian\", while Icelandic and Faroese are classified as \"insular Scandinavian\".\n\nUntil the 16th century, Danish was a continuum of dialects spoken from Schleswig to Scania with no standard variety or spelling conventions. With the Protestant Reformation and the introduction of printing, a standard language was developed which was based on the educated Copenhagen dialect. It spread through use in the education system and administration, though German and Latin continued to be the most important written languages well into the 17th century. Following the loss of territory to Germany and Sweden, a nationalist movement adopted the language as a token of Danish identity, and the language experienced a strong surge in use and popularity, with major works of literature produced in the 18th and 19th centuries. Today, traditional Danish dialects have all but disappeared, though regional variants of the standard language exist. The main differences in language are between generations, with youth language being particularly innovative.\n\nDanish has a very large vowel inventory comprising 27 phonemically distinctive vowels, and its prosody is characterized by the distinctive phenomenon \"stød\", a kind of laryngeal phonation type. Due to the many pronunciation differences that set apart Danish from its neighboring languages, particularly the vowels, difficult prosody and \"weakly\" pronounced consonants, it is sometimes considered to be a difficult language to learn and understand, and some evidence shows that small children are slower to acquire the phonological distinctions of Danish. The grammar is moderately inflective with strong (irregular) and weak (regular) conjugations and inflections. Nouns and demonstrative pronouns distinguish common and neutral gender. Like English, Danish only has remnants of a former case system, particularly in the pronouns. Unlike English, it has lost all person marking on verbs. Its syntax is V2 word order, with the finite verb always occupying the second slot in the sentence.\n\nDanish is a Germanic language of the North Germanic branch. Other names for this group are the Nordic or Scandinavian languages. Along with Swedish, Danish descends from the Eastern dialects of the Old Norse language; Danish and Swedish are also classified as East Scandinavian or East Nordic languages.\n\nScandinavian languages are often considered a dialect continuum, where no sharp dividing lines are seen between the different vernacular languages.\n\nLike Norwegian and Swedish, Danish was significantly influenced by Low German in the Middle Ages, and has been influenced by English since the turn of the 20th century.\n\nDanish itself can be divided into three main dialect areas: West Danish (Jutlandic), Insular Danish (including the Standard variety), and East Danish (including Bornholmian and Scanian). Under the view that Scandinavian is a dialect continuum, East Danish can be considered intermediary between Danish and Swedish, while Scanian can be considered a Swedified East Danish dialect, and Bornholmsk is its closest relative.\n\nDanish is largely mutually intelligible with Norwegian and Swedish. Proficient speakers of any of the three languages can often understand the others fairly well, though studies have shown that speakers of Norwegian generally understand both Danish and Swedish far better than Swedes or Danes understand each other. Both Swedes and Danes also understand Norwegian better than they understand each other's languages. The reason Norwegian occupies a middle position in terms of intelligibility is because of its shared border with Sweden resulting in a similarity in pronunciation, combined with the long tradition of having Danish as a written language which has led to similarities in vocabulary. Among younger Danes, Copenhageners are worse at understanding Swedish than Danes from the provinces, and in general, younger Danes are not as good at understanding the neighboring languages as are Norwegian and Swedish youths.\n\nThe Danish philologist Johannes Brøndum-Nielsen divided the history of Danish into a period from 800 AD to 1525 to be \"Old Danish\", which he subdivided into \"Runic Danish\" (800-1100), Early Middle Danish (1100–1350) and Late Middle Danish (1350–1525).\nBy the eighth century, the common Germanic language of Scandinavia, Proto-Norse, had undergone some changes and evolved into Old Norse.\nThis language was generally called the \"Danish tongue\" (\"Dǫnsk tunga\"), or \"Norse language\" (\"Norrœnt mál\"). Norse was written in the runic alphabet, first with the elder futhark and from the 9th century with the younger futhark.\n\nFrom the seventh century, the common Norse language began to undergo changes that did not spread to all of Scandinavia, resulting in the appearance of two dialect areas, Old West Norse (Norway and Iceland) and Old East Norse (Denmark and Sweden). Most of the changes separating East Norse from West Norse started as innovations in Denmark, that spread through Scania into Sweden and by maritime contact to southern Norway. A change that separated Old East Norse (Runic Swedish/Danish) from Old West Norse was the change of the diphthong \"æi\" (Old West Norse \"ei\") to the monophthong \"e\", as in \"stæin\" to \"sten\". This is reflected in runic inscriptions where the older read \"stain\" and the later \"stin\". Also, a change of \"au\" as in \"dauðr\" into \"ø\" as in \"døðr\" occurred. This change is shown in runic inscriptions as a change from \"tauþr\" into \"tuþr\". Moreover, the \"øy\" (Old West Norse \"ey\") diphthong changed into \"ø\", as well, as in the Old Norse word for \"island\". This monophthongization started in Jutland and spread eastward, having spread throughout Denmark and most of Sweden by 1100.\n\nThrough Danish conquest, Old East Norse was once widely spoken in the northeast counties of England. Many words derived from Norse, such as \"gate\" () for street, still survive in Yorkshire, the East Midlands and East Anglia, and parts of eastern England colonized by Danish Vikings. The city of York was once the Viking settlement of Jorvik. Several other English words derive from Old East Norse, for example \"are\" (), \"knife\" (), \"husband\" (), and \"egg\" (). The suffix \"-by\" for 'town' is common in place names in Yorkshire and the east Midlands, for example Selby, Whitby, Derby, and Grimsby. The word \"dale\" meaning valley is common in Yorkshire and Derbyshire placenames.\n\nIn the medieval period, Danish emerged as a separate language from Swedish. The main written language was Latin, and the few Danish-language texts preserved from this period are written in the Latin alphabet, although the runic alphabet seems to have lingered in popular usage in some areas. The main text types written in this period are laws, which were formulated in the vernacular language to be accessible also to those who were not latinate. The Jutlandic Law and Scanian Law were written in vernacular Danish in the early-13th century. Beginning in 1350, Danish began to be used as a language of administration, and new types of literature began to be written in the language, such as royal letters and testaments. The orthography in this period was not standardized nor was the spoken language, and the regional laws demonstrate the dialectal differences between the regions in which they were written.\n\nThroughout this period, Danish was in contact with Low German, and many Low German loan words were introduced in this period. With the Protestant Reformation in 1536, Danish also became the language of religion, which sparked a new interest in using Danish as a literary language. Also in this period, Danish began to take on the linguistic traits that differentiate it from Swedish and Norwegian, such as the \"stød\", the voicing of many stop consonants, and the weakening of many final vowels to /e/.\n\nThe first printed book in Danish dates from 1495, the \"Rimkrøniken\" (\"Rhyming Chronicle\"), a history book told in rhymed verses. The first complete translation of the Bible in Danish, the Bible of Christian II translated by Christiern Pedersen, was published in 1550. Pedersen's orthographic choices set the \"de facto\" standard for subsequent writing in Danish.\n\nFollowing the first Bible translation, the development of Danish as a written language, as a language of religion, administration, and public discourse accelerated. In the second half of the 17th century, grammarians elaborated grammars of Danish, first among them Rasmus Bartholin's 1657 Latin grammar \"De studio lingvæ danicæ\"; then Laurids Olufsen Kock's 1660 grammar of the Zealand dialect \"Introductio ad lingvam Danicam puta selandicam\"; and in 1685 the first Danish grammar written in Danish, \"Den Danske Sprog-Kunst\" (\"The Art of the Danish Language\") by Peder Syv. Major authors from this period are Thomas Kingo, poet and psalmist, and Leonora Christina Ulfeldt, whose novel \"Jammersminde\" (\"Remembered Woes\") is considered a literary masterpiece by scholars. Orthography was still not standardized and the principles for doing so were vigorously discussed among Danish philologists. The grammar of Jens Pedersen Høysgaard was the first to give a detailed analysis of Danish phonology and prosody, including a description of the \"stød\". In this period, scholars were also discussing whether it was best to \"write as one speaks\" or to \"speak as one writes\", including whether archaic grammatical forms that had fallen out of use in the vernacular, such as the plural form of verbs, should be conserved in writing (i.e. \"han er\" \"he is\" vs. \"de ere\" \"they are\").\n\nThe East Danish provinces were lost to Sweden after the Second Treaty of Brömsebro (1645) after which they were gradually Swedified; just as Norway was politically severed from Denmark, beginning also a gradual end of Danish influence on Norwegian (influence through the shared written standard language remained). With the introduction of absolutism in 1660, the Danish state was further integrated, and the language of the Danish chancellery, a Zealandic variety with German and French influence, became the \"de facto\" official standard language, especially in writing — this was the original so-called \"rigsdansk\" (\"Danish of the Realm\"). Also beginning in the mid-18th century, the \"skarre-R\", the uvular R sound (), began spreading through Denmark, likely through influence from Parisian French and German. It affected all of the areas where Danish had been influential, including all of Denmark, Southern Sweden, and coastal southern Norway.\n\nIn the 18th century, Danish philology was advanced by Rasmus Rask, who pioneered the disciplines of comparative and historical linguistics, and wrote the first English-language grammar of Danish. Literary Danish continued to develop with the works of Ludvig Holberg, whose plays and historical and scientific works laid the foundation for the Danish literary canon. With the Danish colonization of Greenland by Hans Egede, Danish became the administrative and religious language there, while Iceland and the Faroe Islands had the status of Danish colonies with Danish as an official language until the mid-20th century.\n\nFollowing the loss of Schleswig to Germany, a sharp influx of German speakers moved into the area, eventually outnumbering the Danish speakers. The political loss of territory sparked a period of intense nationalism in Denmark, coinciding with the so-called \"Golden Age\" of Danish culture. Authors such as N.F.S. Grundtvig emphasized the role of language in creating national belonging. Some of the most cherished Danish-language authors of this period are existential philosopher Søren Kierkegaard and prolific fairy tale author Hans Christian Andersen. The influence of popular literary role models, together with increased requirements of education did much to strengthen the Danish language, and also started a period of homogenization, whereby the Copenhagen standard language gradually displaced the regional vernacular languages. After the Schleswig referendum in 1920, a number of Danes remained as a minority within German territories. Throughout the 19th century, Danes emigrated, establishing small expatriate communities in the Americas, particularly in the US, Canada, and Argentina, where memory and some use of Danish remains today.\nAfter the occupation of Denmark by Germany in World War II, the 1948 orthography reform dropped the German-influenced rule of capitalizing nouns, and introduced the letter Å/å. Three 20th-century Danish authors have become Nobel Prize laureates in Literature: Karl Gjellerup and Henrik Pontoppidan (joint recipients in 1917) and Johannes V. Jensen (awarded 1944).\n\nWith the exclusive use of \"rigsdansk\", the High Copenhagenian Standard, in national broadcasting, the traditional dialects came under increased pressure. In the 20th century, they have all but disappeared, and the standard language has extended throughout the country. Minor regional pronunciation variation of the standard language, sometimes called \"regionssprog\" (\"regional languages\") remain, and are in some cases vital. Today, the major varieties of Standard Danish are High Copenhagenian, associated with elderly, well to-do, and well educated people of the capital, and low-Copenhagenian traditionally associated with the working class, but today adopted as the prestige variety of the younger generations. Also in the 21st century the influence of immigration has had linguistic consequences, such as the emergence of a so-called multiethnolect in the urban areas, an immigrant Danish variety (also known as \"Perkerdansk\"), combining elements of different immigrant languages such as Arabic, Turkish, and Kurdish, as well as English and Danish.\n\nDanish is the national language of Denmark and one of two official languages of the Faroe Islands (alongside Faroese). Until 2009, it had also been one of two official languages of Greenland (alongside Greenlandic). Danish is widely spoken in Greenland now as \"lingua franca\", and an unknown portion of the native Greenlandic population has Danish as their first language; a large percentage of the native Greenlandic population speaks Danish as a second language since its introduction into the education system as a compulsory language in 1928. Danish was an official language in Iceland until 1944, but is today still widely used and is a mandatory subject in school taught as a second foreign language after English.\nIn addition, a noticeable community of Danish speakers is in Southern Schleswig, the portion of Germany bordering Denmark, where it is an officially recognized regional language, just as German is north of the border. Furthermore, Danish is one of the official languages of the European Union and one of the working languages of the Nordic Council. Under the Nordic Language Convention, Danish-speaking citizens of the Nordic countries have the opportunity to use their native language when interacting with official bodies in other Nordic countries without being liable for any interpretation or translation costs.\n\nThe more widespread of the two varieties of written Norwegian, \"Bokmål\", is very close to Danish, because standard Danish was used as the \"de facto\" administrative language until 1814.\" Bokmål \"is based on Danish, unlike the other variety of Norwegian, \"Nynorsk\", which is based on the Norwegian dialects, with Old Norwegian as an important reference point.\n\nNo law stipulates an official language for Denmark, making Danish the \"de facto\" language only. The Code of Civil Procedure does, however, lay down Danish as the language of the courts. Since 1997, public authorities have been obliged to observe the official spelling by way of the Orthography Law. In the 21st century, discussions have been held regarding creating a language law that would make Danish the official language of Denmark.\n\nStandard Danish (\"rigsdansk\") is the language based on dialects spoken in and around the capital, Copenhagen. Unlike Swedish and Norwegian, Danish does not have more than one regional speech norm. More than 25% of all Danish speakers live in the metropolitan area of the capital, and most government agencies, institutions, and major businesses keep their main offices in Copenhagen, which has resulted in a very homogeneous national speech norm.\n\nDanish dialects can be divided into the traditional dialects, which differ from modern Standard Danish in both phonology and grammar, and the Danish accents or regional languages, which are local varieties of the Standard language distinguished mostly by pronunciation and local vocabulary colored by traditional dialects. Traditional dialects are now mostly extinct in Denmark, with only the oldest generations still speaking them.\n\nDanish traditional dialects are divided into three main dialect areas:\n\nJutlandic is further divided into Southern Jutlandic and Northern Jutlandic, with Northern Jutlandic subdivided into North Jutlandic and West Jutlandic. Insular Danish is divided into Zealand, Funen, Møn, and Lolland-Falster dialect areas – each with addition internal variation. The term \"Eastern Danish\" is occasionally used for Bornholmian, but including the dialects of Scania (particularly in a historical context) – Jutlandic dialect, Insular Danish, and Bornholmian. Bornholmian is the only Eastern Danish dialect spoken in Denmark, since the other Eastern Danish dialects were spoken in areas ceded to Sweden and subsequently swedified.\n\nTraditional dialects differ in phonology, grammar, and vocabulary from standard Danish. Phonologically, one of the most diagnostic differences is the presence or absence of \"stød\". Four main regional variants for the realization of stød are known: In Southeastern Jutlandic, Southernmost Funen, Southern Langeland, and Ærø, no \"stød\" is used, but instead a pitch accent. South of a line ( \"The Stød border\") going through central South Jutland, crossing Southern Funen and central Langeland and north of Lolland-Falster, Møn, Southern Zealand and Bornholm neither \"stød\" nor pitch accent exists. Most of Jutland and on Zealand use\" stød\", and in Zealandic traditional dialects and regional language,\" stød\" occurs more often than in the standard language. In Zealand, the \"stød\" line divides Southern Zealand (without \"stød\"), an area which used to be directly under the Crown, from the rest of the Island that used to be the property of various noble estates.\n\nGrammatically, a dialectally significant feature is the number of grammatical genders. Standard Danish has two genders and the definite form of nouns is formed by the use of suffixes, while Western Jutlandic has only one gender and the definite form of nouns uses an article before the noun itself, in the same fashion as West Germanic languages. The Bornholmian dialect has maintained to this day many archaic features, such as a distinction between three grammatical genders. Insular Danish traditional dialects also conserved three grammatical genders. By 1900, Zealand insular dialects had been reduced to two genders under influence from the standard language, but other Insular varieties, such as Funen dialect had not. Besides using three genders, the old Insular or Funen dialect, could also use personal pronouns (like he and she) in certain cases, particularly referring to animals. A classic example in traditional Funen dialect is the sentence: \"Katti, han får unger\", literally \"The cat, he is having kittens\", because cat is a masculine noun, thus is referred to as \"han\" (he), even if it is female cat.\n\nThe sound system of Danish is unusual among the world's languages, particularly in its large vowel inventory and in the unusual prosody. In informal or rapid speech, the language is prone to considerable reduction of unstressed syllables, creating many vowel-less syllables with syllabic consonants, as well as reduction of final consonants. Furthermore, the language's prosody does not include many clues about the sentence structure, unlike many other languages, making it relatively more difficult to segment the speech flow into its constituent elements. These factors taken together make Danish pronunciation difficult to master for learners, and Danish children are indicated to take slightly longer in learning to segment speech in early childhood.\n\nAlthough somewhat depending on analysis, most modern variants of Danish distinguish 12 long vowels, 13 short vowels, and two \"schwa\" vowels, and that only occur in unstressed syllables. This gives a total of 27 different vowel phonemes – a very large number among the world's languages. At least 19 different diphthongs also occur, all with a short first vowel and the second segment being either , , or . The table below shows the approximate distribution of the vowels as given by in Modern Standard Danish, with the symbols used in . Questions of analysis may give a slightly different inventory, for example based on whether r-colored vowels are considered distinct phonemes. gives 25 \"full vowels\", not counting the two unstressed \"schwa\" vowels.\n\nThe consonant inventory is comparatively simple. distinguishes 16 non-syllabic consonant phonemes in Danish.\n\nMany of these phonemes have quite different allophones in onset and coda. Phonetically there is no voicing distinction among the stops, rather the distinction is one of aspiration and fortis vs. lenis. are aspirated in onset realized as , but not in coda. The pronunciation of \"t\", , is in between a simple aspirated and a fully affricated as has happened in German with many words that now contain \"z\". The stops /b d g/ are realized as in onset and as [b̥ ð̞ˠ̠, j/ʊ̯] in coda. In syllable onset the phonemes are contoid (having enough closure to produce friction), but in coda syllables they become vocoids, with no audible friction making them phonetically similar to vowels. For example, /v b/ is pronounced as a [w]-sound in syllable coda e.g. /grav, løb/ (\"grave, ran\") are pronounced .\n\nThe sound is found for example in the word /sjovˀ/ \"fun\" pronounced and /tjalˀ/ \"marijuana\" pronounced . Some analyses have posited it as a phoneme, but since it occurs only after or and doesn't occur after these phonemes, it can be analyzed as an allophone of , which is devoiced after voiceless alveolar frication. This makes it unnecessary to postulate a -phoneme in Danish.\n\nIn onset is realized as a uvu-pharyngeal approximant, , but in coda it is either realized as a non-syllabic low central vowel, or simply coalesces with the preceding vowel. The phenomenon is comparable to the \"r\" in German or in non-rhotic pronunciations of English. The Danish pronunciation of as a so-called skarre-r distinguishes the language from those varieties of Norwegian and Swedish that use trilled .\n\nDanish is characterized by a prosodic feature called \"stød\" (lit. \"thrust\"). This is a form of laryngealization or creaky voice. Some sources have described it as a glottal stop, but this is a very infrequent realization, and today phoneticians consider it a phonation type or a prosodic phenomenon. It has phonemic status, since it serves as the sole distinguishing feature of words with different meanings in minimal pairs such as \"bønder\" (\"peasants\") with stød, versus \"bønner\" (\"beans\") without stød. The distribution of stød in the vocabulary is related to the distribution of the common Scandinavian pitch accents found in most dialects of Norwegian and Swedish.\n\nStress is phonemic and distinguishes words such as \"billigst\" \"cheapest\" and \"bilist\" \"car driver\".\n\nSimilarly to the case of English, modern Danish grammar is the result of a gradual change from a typical Indo-European dependent-marking pattern with a rich inflectional morphology and relatively free word order, to a mostly analytic pattern with little inflection, a fairly fixed SVO word order and a complex syntax. Some traits typical of Germanic languages persist in Danish, such as the distinction between irregularly inflected strong stems inflected through ablaut (i.e. changing the vowel of the stem, as in the pairs \"tager/tog\" (\"takes/took\") and \"fod/fødder\" (\"foot/feet\")) and weak stems inflected through affixation (such as \"elsker/elskede\" \"love/loved\", \"bil/biler\" \"car/cars\"). Vestiges of the Germanic case and gender system are found in the pronoun system. Typically for an Indo-European language, Danish follows accusative morphosyntactic alignment. Danish distinguishes at least seven major word classes: verbs, nouns, numerals, adjectives, adverbs, articles, prepositions, conjunctions, interjections and ideophones.\n\nNouns are inflected for number (singular vs. plural) and definiteness, and are classified into two grammatical genders. Only pronouns inflect for case, and the previous genitive case has become an enclitic. A distinctive feature of the Nordic languages, including Danish, is that the definite articles, which also mark noun gender, have developed into suffixes. Typically of Germanic languages plurals are either irregular or \"strong\" stems inflected through ablaut (i.e. changing the vowel of the stem (e.g. \"fod/fødder\" \"foot/feet\", \"mand/mænd\" \"man/men\") or \"weak\" stems inflected through affixation (e.g. \"skib/skibe\" \"ship/ships\", \"kvinde/kvinder\" \"woman/women\").\n\nStandard Danish has two nominal genders: \"common\" and \"neuter\"; the common gender arose as the historical feminine and masculine genders conflated into a single category. Some traditional dialects retain a three-way gender distinction, between masculine, feminine and neuter, and some dialects of Jutland have a masculine/feminine contrast. While the majority of Danish nouns (ca. 75%) have the \"common\" gender, and \"neuter\" is often used for inanimate objects, the genders of nouns are not generally predictable and must in most cases be memorized. The gender of a noun determines the form of adjectives that modify it, and the form of the definite suffixes. \n\nDefiniteness is marked by two mutually exclusive articles, a preposed demonstrative article which occurs with nouns that are modified by an adjective or a postposed enclitic. Neuter nouns take the clitic \"-et\", and common gender nouns take \"-en\". Indefinite nouns take the articles \"en\" (common gender) or \"et\" (neuter). Hence, the common gender noun \"en mand\" \"a man\" (indefinite) has the definite form \"manden\" \"the man\", whereas the neuter noun \"et hus\" \"a house\" (indefinite) has the definite form, \"the house\" (definite) \"huset\". \n\nIndefinite:\n\nDefinite with enclitic article:\n\nDefinite with preposed demonstrative article:\n\nThe plural definite ending is \"-(e)ne\" (e.g. \"drenge\" \"boys > \"drengene\" \"the boys\" and \"piger\" \"girls\" > \"pigerne\" \"the girls\"), and nouns ending in -\"ere\" lose the last \"-e\" before adding the -ne suffix (e.g. \"danskere\" \"Danes\" > \"danskerne\" \"the Danes\"). When the noun is modified by an adjective, the definiteness is marked by the definite article \"den\" (common) or \"det\" (neuter) and the definite/plural form of the adjective: \"den store mand\" \"the big man\", \"det store hus\" \"the big house\".\n\nThere are three different types of regular plurals: Class 1 forms the plural with the suffix -\"er\" (indefinite) and -\"erne\" (definite), Class 2 with the suffix \"-e\" (indefinite) and -\"ene\" (definite.), and Class 3 takes no suffix for the plural indefinite form and -\"ene\" for the plural definite.\n\nMost irregular nouns take an ablaut plural (with a change in the stem vowel), or combine ablaut stem-change with the suffix, and some have unique plural forms. Unique forms may be inherited (e.g. the plural of \"øje\" \"eye\", which is the old dual form \"øjne\"), or for loan words they may be borrowed from the donor language (e.g. the word \"konto\" \"account\" which is borrowed from Italian and uses the Italian masculine plural form \"konti\" \"accounts\").\n\nPossessive phrases are formed with the enclitic -\"s\", for example \"min fars hus\" \"my father's house\" where the noun \"far\" carries the possessive enclitic. This is however not an example of genitive case marking, because in the case of longer noun phrases the -s attaches to the last word in the phrase, which need not be the head-noun or even a noun at all. For example, the phrases \"kongen af Danmark's bolsjefabrik\" \"the king of Denmark's candy factory\", or \"det er pigen Uffe bor sammen meds datter\" \"that is the daughter of the girl that Uffe lives with\", where the enclitic attaches to a stranded preposition.\n\nAs does English, the Danish pronominal system retains a distinction between subjective and oblique case. The subjective case form of pronouns is used when pronouns occur as grammatical subject of a sentence, and oblique forms are used for all non-subjective occurrences including accusative, dative, predicative, comparative and other types of constructions. The third person singular pronouns also distinguish between and animate masculine (\"han\" \"he\"), animate feminine (\"hun\" \"she\") forms, as well as inanimate neuter (\"det\" \"it\") and inanimate common gender (\"den\" \"it\") \n\nPossessive pronouns have independent and adjectival forms. The adjectival form is used immediately preceding the possessed noun (\"det er min hest\" \"it is my horse\"), whereas the independent possessive pronoun is used in place of the possessed noun (\"den er min\" \"it is mine\"). In the third person singular \"sin\" is used when the owner is also the subject of the sentence, whereas \"hans\" (\"his\"), \"hendes\" (her) and \"dens/dets\" \"its\" is used when the owner is different from the grammatical subject.\n\nLike all Germanic languages, Danish forms compound nouns. These are represented in Danish orthography as one word, as in \"kvindehåndboldlandsholdet\", \"the female national handball team\". In some cases, nouns are joined with an extra \"s\", originally possessive in function, like \"landsmand\" (from \"land\", \"country\", and \"mand\", \"man\", meaning \"compatriot\"), but \"landmand\" (from same roots, meaning \"farmer\"). Some words are joined with an extra \"e\", like \"gæstebog\" (from \"gæst\" and \"bog\", meaning \"guest book\").\n\nDanish verbs are morphologically simple, marking very few grammatical categories. They do not mark person or number of subject, although the marking of plural subjects was still used in writing as late as the 19th century. Verbs have a past, non-past and infinitive form, past and present participle forms, and a passive, and an imperative.\nVerbs can be divided into two main classes, the strong/irregular verbs and the regular/weak verbs. The regular verbs are also divided into two classes, those that take the past suffix -\"te\" and those that take the suffix -\"ede\".\n\nThe infinitive always ends in a vowel, usually -e (pronounced ), infinitive forms are preceded by the article \"at\" (pronounced ). The non-past or present tense takes the suffix -\"r\", except for a few strong verbs that have irregular non-past forms. The past form does not necessarily mark past tense, but also counterfactuality or conditionality, and the non-past has many uses besides present tense time reference.\n\nThe present participle ends in -\"ende\" (e.g. \"løbende\" \"running\"), and the past participle ends in -\"et\" (e.g. \"løbet\" \"run\"), \"-t\" (e.g. købt \"bought\"). Additional composite tenses are constructed with auxiliary verbs (e.g. \"at være\" \"to be\" and \"at have\" \"to have\") and participial forms:\n\nThe passive form takes the suffix -s: \"avisen læses hver dag\" (\"the newspaper is read every day\"). Another passive construction uses the auxiliary verb \"at blive\" \"to become\": \"avisen bliver læst hver dag\".\n\nThe imperative mood is formed from the infinitive by removing the final schwa-vowel:\n\nDanish basic constituent order in simple sentences with both a subject and an object is Subject-Verb-Object. However, Danish is also a V2 language, which means that the verb must always be the second constituent of the sentence. Following the Danish grammarian Paul Diderichsen Danish grammar tends to be analyzed as consisting of slots or fields, and in which certain types of sentence material can be moved to the pre-verbal (or \"grounding\") field to achieve different pragmatic effects. Usually the sentence material occupying the preverbal slot has to be pragmatically marked, usually either new information or topics. There is no rule that subjects must occur in the preverbal slot, but since subject and topic often coincide, they often do. Therefore, whenever any sentence material that is not the subject occurs in the preverbal position the subject is demoted to postverbal position and the sentence order becomes VSO.\n\nbut\n\nWhen there is no pragmatically marked constituents in the sentence to take the preverbal slot (for example when all the information is new), the slot has to take a dummy subject \"der\".\n\n describes the basic order of sentence constituents in main clauses as comprising the following 8 positions:\n\nPosition 0 is not part of the sentence and can only contain sentential connectors (such as conjunctions or interjections). Position 1 can contain any sentence constituent. Position 2 can only contain the main verb. Position 3 is the subject position, unless the subject is fronted to occur in position 1. Position 4 can only contain light adverbs and the negation. Position 5 is for non-finite verbs, such as auxiliaries. Position 6 is the position of direct and indirect objects, and position 7 is for heavy adverbial constituents.\n\nQuestions with wh-words are formed differently from yes/no questions. In wh-questions the question word occupies the preverbal field, regardless of whether its grammatical role is subject or object or adverbial. In yes/no questions the preverbal field is empty, so that the sentence begins with the verb.\n\nWh-question:\n\nIn subordinate clauses, the syntax differs from that of main clauses. In the subordinate clause structure the verb is preceded by the subject and any light adverbial material (e.g. negation). Complement clauses begin with the particle \"at\" in the \"connector field\".\n\nRelative clauses are marked by the relative articles \"som\" or \"der\" which occupy the preverbal slot:\n\nAbout 2000 of Danish non-compound words are derived from the Old Norse language, and ultimately from Proto Indo-European. Of these 2000 words, 1200 are nouns, 500 are verbs, 180 are adjectives and the rest belong to other word classes. Danish has also absorbed a large number of loan words, most of which were borrowed from Middle Low German in the late medieval period. Out of the 500 most frequently used words in Danish, 100 are medieval loans from Middle Low German. In the 17th and 18th centuries, standard German and French superseded Low German influence and in the 20th century English became the main supplier of loan words, especially after World War II. Although many old Nordic words remain, some were replaced with borrowed synonyms, as can be seen with \"æde\" (to eat) which became less common when the Low German \"spise\" came into fashion. As well as loan words, new words are freely formed by compounding existing words. In standard texts of contemporary Danish, Middle Low German loans account for about 16‒17% of the vocabulary, Graeco-Latin-loans 4‒8%, French 2‒4% and English about 1%.\n\nDanish and English are both Germanic languages, Danish a North Germanic language descended from Old Norse and English a West Germanic language descended from Old English, and Old Norse exerted a strong influence on Old English in the early medieval period. To see their shared Germanic heritage, one merely has to note the many common words that are very similar in the two languages. For example, commonly used Danish nouns and prepositions such as \"have\", \"over\", \"under\", \"for\", \"give\", \"flag,\" \"salt,\" and \"kat\" are easily recognizable in their written form to English speakers. Similarly, some other words are almost identical to their Scots equivalents, e.g., \"kirke\" (Scots \"kirk\", i.e., 'church') or \"barn\" (Scots \"bairn\", i.e. 'child'). In addition, the word \"by\", meaning \"village\" or \"town\", occurs in many English place-names, such as \"Whitby\" and \"Selby\", as remnants of the Viking occupation. During the latter period, English adopted \"are\", the third person plural form of the verb \"to be\", as well as the corresponding personal pronoun form \"they\" from contemporary Old Norse.\n\nIn the word forms of numbers above 20, the units are stated before the tens, so 21 is rendered \"enogtyve\", literally \"one and twenty\".\n\nThe numeral \"halvanden\" means 1½ (literally \"half second\", implying \"one plus half of the second one\"). The numerals \"halvtredje\" (2½), \"halvfjerde\" (3½) and \"halvfemte\" (4½) are obsolete, but still implicitly used in the vigesimal system described below. Similarly, the temporal designation (\"klokken\")\" halv tre\", literally \"half three (o'clock)\", is half past two.\n\nOne peculiar feature of the Danish language is the fact that numerals 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90 are (as are the French numerals from 80 through 99) based on a vigesimal system, meaning that the score (20) is used as a base unit in counting. \"Tres\" (short for \"tre-sinds-tyve\", \"three times twenty\") means 60, while 50 is \"halvtreds\" (short for \"halvtredje-sinds-tyve\", \"half third times twenty\", implying two score plus half of the third score). The ending \"sindstyve\" meaning \"times twenty\" is no longer included in cardinal numbers, but may still be used in ordinal numbers. Thus, in modern Danish fifty-two is usually rendered as \"tooghalvtreds\" from the now obsolete \"tooghalvtredsindstyve\", whereas 52nd is either \"tooghalvtredsende\" or \"tooghalvtredsindstyvende\". Twenty is \"tyve\" (derived from old Danish \"tiughu\", a haplology of \"tuttiughu\", meaning 'two tens'), while thirty is \"tredive\" (Old Danish \"þrjatiughu\", \"three tens\"), and forty is \"fyrre\" (Old Danish \"fyritiughu\", \"four tens\", still used today as the archaism \"fyrretyve\"). Thus, the suffix \"-tyve\" should be understood as a plural of \"ti\" (10), though to modern Danes \"tyve\" means 20, making it hard to explain why \"fyrretyve\" is 40 (four tens) and not 80 (four times twenty).\n\nFor large numbers (one billion or larger), Danish uses the long scale, so that the short-scale billion (1,000,000,000) is called \"milliard\", and the short-scale trillion (1,000,000,000,000) is \"billion\".\n\nThe oldest preserved examples of written Danish (from the Iron and Viking Ages) are in the Runic alphabet. The introduction of Christianity also brought the Latin script to Denmark, and at the end of the High Middle Ages Runes had more or less been replaced by Latin letters.\n\nDanish orthography is conservative, using most of the conventions established in the 16th century. The spoken language however has changed a lot since then, creating a gap between the spoken and written languages.\n\nThe modern Danish alphabet is similar to the English one, with three additional letters: \"æ\", \"ø\", and \"å\", which come at the end of the alphabet, in that order. The letters c, q, w, x and z are only used in loan words. A spelling reform in 1948 introduced the letter \"å\", already in use in Norwegian and Swedish, into the Danish alphabet to replace the digraph \"aa\". The old usage continues to occur in some personal and geographical names; for example, the name of the city of \"Aalborg\" is spelled with Aa following a decision by the City Council in the 1970s and \"Aarhus\" decided to go back to Aa in 2011. When representing the \"å\" sound, \"aa\" is treated like \"å\" in alphabetical sorting, though it appears to be two letters. When the letters are not available due to technical limitations, they are often replaced by \"ae\" (Æ, æ), \"oe\" or \"o\" (Ø, ø), and \"aa\" (Å, å), respectively.\n\nThe same spelling reform changed the spelling of a few common words, such as the past tense \"vilde\" (would), \"kunde\" (could) and \"skulde\" (should), to their current forms of \"ville\", \"kunne\" and \"skulle\" (making them identical to the infinitives in writing, as they are in speech). Modern Danish and Norwegian use the same alphabet, though spelling differs slightly, particularly with the phonetic spelling of loanwords; for example the spelling of \"station\" and \"garage\" in Danish remains identical to other languages, whereas in Norwegian, they are transliterated as \"stasjon\" and \"garasje\".\n\nRealm languages:\n\nNordic languages:\n\n"}
{"id": "45376936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45376936", "title": "Dubai Chess and Culture Club", "text": "Dubai Chess and Culture Club\n\nDubai Chess and Culture Club was established in 1979 as a part of the UAE Chess Federation, the governing body of chess in the UAE, and was officially recognized as an independent entity on May 16, 1981. The club's headquarters was acclaimed as the most modern and biggest dedicated chess club in the world when it was inaugurated on May 2, 1999. The building is designed in the shape of a rook, a piece in the game of chess. Some of the most notable members of the club include Saeed Ahmed Saeed, the UAE’s first world champion in chess and first international master, and Taleb Moussa, the UAE’s first chess grandmaster.\n\nSheikh Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of Dubai and Minister of Finance, is the honorary president of the Club. Sheikh Hamdan has played a major role in supporting the chess movement in the region.\n\nDubai Chess and Culture Club was established in 1981. The club’s headquarters was originally located in Burj Nahar in Deira District before it was moved permanently to its current location in Al Mamzar, Dubai. The club's current headquarters was built on May 2, 1999 and was widely acknowledged as the most modern and biggest dedicated chess club in the world when it was completed. The club played a major role in organizing the 27th World Chess Olympiad , which was hosted by the UAE Chess Federation from November 14 to December 2 at the Dubai World Trade Centre with 108 teams from 107 countries taking part, the first time participation in the Olympiad reached over a hundred. Some players who attended the event described it the best organized Olympiad. The club has hosted other international events such as the 2014 World Rapid and Blitz Championships, which was attended by nearly all the top players in the world, including world champion Magnus Carlsen, FIDE Dubai Rapid Grand Prix in 2002, Asian Cities Championships, Arab Chess Championships and the annual Dubai Open Chess Tournament.\n\nThe Dubai Chess and Culture Club building located in Al Mamzar was regarded as the most modern and biggest chess club in the world when it was completed on May 2, 1999. The club is noted for having its own dedicated facilities that allows it to host chess and non-chess activities.\n\nThe club organizes several international and local tournaments each year\n\n\nOther international tournaments that have been hosted by Dubai Chess and Culture Club\n\n\nThe club has produced the UAE’s first chess grandmaster, Taleb Moussa, who earned the title in 2004. The UAE’s first chess world champion was also from the club, Saeed Saeed Ahmed, who won the Under-14 championship in the 1981 World Youth Championship in Xalapa, Mexico. Members of the club who have earned the FIDE International Master title are Saeed Saeed Ahmed, Nasser Ahmed Saeed and Mansoor Abdullah Mohammed.\n\nThe club has won a total of 96 medals – including 30 gold medals – in pan-Arab, Asian, World and Olympic competitions. The club maintains a list on its website of members who have won medals in various international competitions. GM Taleb Moussa and FM Saeed Ishaq hold the distinction of having won the most number of medals while representing the UAE in international competitions, each with nine, followed by IM Saeed Ahmad Saeed with eight medals.\n\nThe adoption of the rapid chess format was attributed to the club’s former chairman and former UAE Chess Federation president Mohamed Ghobash during his tenure as FIDE vice-president. Rapid chess is now one of the official events in the FIDE annual calendar and has its own international rating list.\n\n"}
{"id": "1597334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597334", "title": "Elizabeth Jesser Reid", "text": "Elizabeth Jesser Reid\n\nElizabeth Jesser Reid (; 25 December 1789 – 1 April 1866) was an English social reformer, anti-slavery activist and philanthropist. She is best remembered as the founder of Bedford College.\nElisabeth Jesser Sturch was born in 1789 in London. Her father, William Sturch, was a wealthy Unitarian ironmonger. In 1821, she married Dr John Reid. Dr Reid had inherited land on the River Clyde at Glasgow that had become valuable as the port grew in size. His death in July 1822 gave Mrs Reid an independent income, which she used to help various philanthropic causes.\n\nActive in liberal Unitarian circles, Reid was an anti-slavery activist, attending the World Anti-Slavery Convention in London in 1840. She met Lucretia Mott and the other American female delegates who had been denied the right to speak at the convention. and taking a close interest in the American Civil War. She was also in contact with leading figures in the revolutions in France and Germany in 1848, and the struggles for Italian independence.\n\nIn 1849, Reid founded Bedford College at Bedford Square in the Bloomsbury area of London. The college was a women-only higher education institution that aimed to provide a liberal and non-sectarian education for female students – something no other institution in the United Kingdom offered at the time. Bedford College played a leading role in the advancement of women in higher education, and in public life in general. The National Archives U.K. holds a number of letters written to Reid that reference noted Victorian advocates of female education, including Harriet Martineau and Frances Lupton. \n\nReid also founded the Reid Trust, which continues to support women's education with small grants to this day. \n\nReid died in 1866, leaving her remaining wealth in a trust fund for the college.\n\nThere is a green plaque on Reid's house in Bedford Square.\n\nBedford College became a college of the University of London in 1900, and merged with Royal Holloway College in 1985 to become Royal Holloway and Bedford New College. One of the halls of residence on the current campus is named \"Reid Hall\" in memory of the Bedford College founder.\n\n"}
{"id": "49769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49769", "title": "Friendship book", "text": "Friendship book\n\nFriendship books (also known as \"FBs\" in their abbreviated form) are small booklets made by stapling paper together, or are sometimes just sheets or strips of paper. They are usually decorated and the person who starts the book writes their name and address as the first person sending the book. People often include a list of interests as well. The FB is then passed around from penpal to penpal, and can often also become a way for one to meet new penpals. Most people hope to see the book again once it is full so they add their return address to the back cover of the book too, or inscribe \"Return to Sender\" on it. People also sometimes make FBs for someone else rather than themselves, in which case they write the name and address of the recipient on the front/at the top. Some people find friendship books fun because you can see where they have been in a trail back to the original sender/recipient.\n\nThe German friendship books (or ) serve a similar purpose but are kept, not sent away. Access is considered more intimate; sometimes the book even has a lock. The information given about oneself often includes quotations, poetry and worldly wisdom. Typically they are more like shared journals between two best friends or a couple and are kept at one of their houses.\n\nFriendship books that require entrants to make drawings, use stickers or magazine photographs are known as \"deco\" friendship books or just simply \"decos\". Typically, each entrant in the \"deco\" must use one full page to express themselves. Glitter, sequins, feathers and other scrapbooking supplies are frequently used in \"decos.\" Despite the artistic expressions used in these types of friendship books, the basic rules of passing the friendship book to person to person is the same.\n\nWhen a 'friendship book' is only one page (no staples), it's called a 'friendship sheet.' If the page is small, like the size of a postcard, or smaller, it's called a 'cram.' Friendship books that have a musical theme, where you have to add lyrics to your entry, are called \"lyrix\" or \"lyrics sheets\".\n\nSlams are friendship books that include a theme of questions, either \"Sign if you did/like the following\", \"What is your favorite\" or other similar questions. These usually include one page as a \"sign in\", several pages of questions, and then a \"sign out\" or \"shout out\" page at the end. \nSlams can be themed or regular. Typically they are small like a standard friendship book. Often they have a \"sign-in\" page where you put your label or name, then each page will often contain a question which you answer (i.e. When was the last time you said \"I love you\") and the signer would write the appropriate response. At the end there is often a sign-out page as well where it's dated. Slams have many variations and can be \"sign if\" slams (you sign only if the statement or question applies to you). These are handled in a number of ways, but most of them become more clear when you have it in-hand.\n\nCrams are like friendship sheets or book, but no one includes any personal information. The idea (as the name implies) is to \"cram\" as many names and addresses into the provided space.\n\nAs the name implies, friendship sheets are nearly the same as friendship books, but they are made on a single sheet of paper or stationery.\n\nDecos are similar to FBs, but are often larger in size. The cover is often decorated with interesting materials like magazine pictures, rubber stamps, decorative papers, and other embellishments. Each person who signs decorates a full page in the book. Sometimes the book has a theme, for example cats. Then, each person decorates their page following the theme. As with FBs, when these are full, they are sent home to the person for whom the book was made.\n\nLyrix are much like decos except that each page is decorated using lyrics from a song. Some are more plain with the words simply written in them, others are as artistic as decos with pictures and other ornamental adornments.\n\nQuotes are like Lyrics, but instead of song lyrics they contain quotes from movies. These can also be themed, such as Brad Pitt movie quotes. Quotes can be plain text or decorative.\n\nSometimes a friendship book can get misplaced and take several years to reach its intended maker. It is considered common courtesy to pass the friendship books on to another pen pal as quickly as possible. Another rule of thumb with friendship books is that after two years of circulation, the friendship book should be returned home to its owner. With the popularity of the internet, some pen pals include their email address along with their snail mail address so people can make sure their letter will successfully make it to the intended pen pal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32471901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32471901", "title": "Furiiru people", "text": "Furiiru people\n\nThe Bafuliiru people (also known as the Fuliiru, Bafuliru, Kifuliru, Kifuliiru, Bafuliru, Bafuliiru and Bafuliru) are an African ethnic group, a sub-group of the Kivu. \n\nThe Furiiru mainly inhabit the east-central highlands of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Zaire), in the South Kivu province south of Lake Kivu and north and northwest of Uvira, along the Ruzizi plain near the border with Rwanda and Burundi, where some Furiiru also live. In 2009, their population estimate numbered over 250,000. A 1999 estimate of Furiiru-language speakers placed the number at 300,000. The Furiiru are connected to the Vira in a Furiiru-Vira culture cluster. Both groups are interlacustrine, living between the African Great Lakes.\n\nThe Fuliiru speak the Fuliiru language, a Bantu language. They are predominantly farmers, although they also own and raise cattle for milk and meat. Traditionally the Furiiru were the only highland Bantu-speaking people to be organized into a \"single, relatively small state\" which was highly centralized. \n\nIn June 2014, 35 Fuliiru were killed in an attack on the town of Mutarule. The attack was believed to be ethnically motivated.\n"}
{"id": "32234146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32234146", "title": "Girawa language", "text": "Girawa language\n\nGirawa, also known as Bagasin (Begasin, Begesin), is a Papuan language of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "2458084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458084", "title": "Gutob language", "text": "Gutob language\n\nThe Gutob or Bodo Gadaba language is a Munda language of India, with the greatest concentrations of speakers being found in Koraput district of Odisha and Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh. It is also known simply as the Gadaba language, but it is different from the Dravidian Gadaba language. Other names for the Bodo Gadaba language include Gadba, Gutop, Gudwa, Godwa, Gadwa, and Boi Gadaba.\n\nThe Gutob language belongs to the South Munda subgroup of the Munda branch of the Austroasiatic language family. It is most closely related to the Bondo language.\n\nGutob is spoken across southern Odisha and adjacent districts of northern Andhra Pradesh, and is concentrated primarily in Lamptaput block, Koraput district, southern Odisha (Griffiths 2008:634). In recent centuries, Gutob speakers have also migrated to the plains of Andhra Pradesh as well as Rayagada District, including near the town Majiguda (close to Kalyansinghpur) where they live alongside the Dravidian-speaking Kondhs.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" reports the following locations.\n\nThe Gutob language is considered to be either endangered or moribund, due in part to a couple of hydroelectric projects that have displaced Gutob people from their traditional villages and forced them to live as minorities in primarily Desiya-speaking villages.\n\n"}
{"id": "27641634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27641634", "title": "Illegal drugs in Puerto Rico", "text": "Illegal drugs in Puerto Rico\n\nIllegal drugs in Puerto Rico are an increasingly significant problem from a criminal, social, and medical perspective, and a large amount of crime in Puerto Rico has been linked to the amount of illegal drugs that flow through the country. Located in the Caribbean, Puerto Rico has become a major transshipment point for drugs into the United States. Violent and property crimes have increased due in part to dealers trying to keep their drug business afloat, using guns and violence to protect themselves, their turfs, and drug habits.\n\nCrimes related to drugs are not the only crimes that has plagued the island. Police and political corruption have also been problematic, as have gangs, which further contribute to the drug problem and associated crime in Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Government of Puerto Rico has struggled to combat illegal drug use and the resulting crime since the mid-1970s. Their efforts have been referred to as a \"War on Drugs\". Though drug use was uncommon in Puerto Rico in the 1950s, it markedly increased in the late 1960s. In the 1970s the increase in drug use, particularly among those under the age of 25, became a major concern in Puerto Rican society. A number of drug cartels have used Puerto Rico as a transfer point while trafficking cocaine to the mainland United States.\n\nMany Puerto Ricans have attributed increases in crime to the drug trade. This led to a major focus on crime and drugs in Puerto Rican politics. In response, federal and local law enforcement agencies have attempted to integrate their efforts to fight drug crime. Other strategies used by the government of Puerto Rico include longer sentences for criminals, increased funding for law enforcement equipment, and the construction of new prisons. At times, however, the DEA and the Puerto Rican police have struggled to work together and some commentators have questioned the effectiveness of government drug policy.\n\nIn the early 1990s, law enforcement began specifically targeting white collar drug users. By 2008 the tension was rising.\n\nThe start of what some call the \"drug war\" was in 2009 in a conflict between Police and drug dealers which police wounded and killed two men. This occurred in Naranjito, Puerto Rico, the place where the drug dealers distributed their drugs to many places in Puerto Rico. In the house they found AK-47, M9 pistols and the drugs. Also they found that they were working with corrupt politicians to approve marijuana legalization and the export of exotic animals. In 2010 police captured 16 drug dealer \"clans\" that had the same information and they worked together to defeat opposing dealers. They also started to \"clean house\" in 2010, when they killed about 44 men attached to some drug dealers or those that were compromising the dealer. In 2011 the death toll was 1,266 at one point, due to many big drug arrests different gangs went into war with each other for the control of drugs in the island. In 2011 it was discovered that many of the killings were to cover up some corrupt politicians. In 2012, around 1,000 murders were reported. Also in Bayamon, a major city of Puerto Rico, many drug cartels started to defend their dealers by getting snipers and attackers on rooftops. \"Sikarios\" would be put on the rooftops to defend their drug turf in different housing projects due to wars against rival gangs that would try to take over the drug turf. Police captured a sniper in late 2011, the sniper had a Dragunov Caliber Sniper Rifle and was arrested with 5 other drug dealers. In early 2012, two assassinations occurred in Humacao involving the Carteli.\n\nPuerto Rico has become a transshipment point for illegal drugs that are smuggled from source countries like Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru into the U.S. mainland. Most of it is transported to and through the island from drug trafficking organizations in the Dominican Republic and Colombia, and criminal organizations in Puerto Rico.\n\nU.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) seized 1,176.74 pounds of cocaine in 2001 from commercial maritime vessels and 14, 932.53 pounds of cocaine from private maritime vessels in Puerto Rico. Go-fast boats are the most favorable, as they are fast and stealthy, and have been used to intercept drug shipments that have been dropped off into the open water from other larger ships or airdropped from aircraft.\nIn June 2012, 36 people were arrested in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland for smuggling 61,000 pounds of cocaine into the U.S through Puerto Rico's Luis Munoz Marin International Airport aboard flights operated by American Airlines. The smuggling had been taking place since 1999.\n\nIn 1996, a group of researchers from Puerto Rico's Mental Health and Anti Addiction Services Administration, published the results of a study involving 849 out-of-treatment drug users in the San Juan area. Their study found that 36.5% of the drug users in the study were crack cocaine users only, 42.4% were drug injectors only and 21.1% were both drug injectors and crack users.\n\nIn 2001, U.S. Customs and Border Protection in Puerto Rico seized 56 kilograms of heroin from commercial aircraft at airports and 28 kilograms of heroin from commercial maritime vessels in Puerto Rico. That same year, government officials arrested seven individuals in Puerto Rico, for swallowing between 36 and 98 condoms full of heroin, when they arrived from Aruba on a cruise ship. In June 2002, drug detecting dogs detected and CBP seized 24 kilograms of heroin in a cargo storage area on a pier in San Juan. That same year federal law enforcement officials in San Juan seized 1.4 kilograms of heroin from a passenger arriving from Aruba on a cruise ship.\n\nIn 2001, CBP confiscated 205 kilos of marijuana at airports throughout Puerto Rico. In 2002, a resident of San Juan was arrested at the airport, when government officials found 12.7 kilograms of marijuana hidden in his luggage.\n\nIn 2008, four police officers in Puerto Rico were arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), including a Lieutenant with 33 years on the force, for extortion and distribution of cocaine and heroin. In 2007, 9 police officers and their lieutenant were arrested for planting drug evidence, including cocaine, heroin, and crack, on people living in the city's low-income housing projects, prompting Puerto Rico's attorney general's office to review previous cases, making sure no innocent people were put in prison. Between 2003 and 2007, 100 officers had been under investigation and 75 others convicted under federal court for police corruption.\n\nIn 2001, one of the biggest police corruption busts in U.S. history took place in Puerto Rico, when 28 state police officers in Puerto Rico were arrested for drug-running charges. The yearlong undercover operation was initiated by the FBI, after authorities got a tip about the police possibly being involved in drug dealing, and protecting cocaine dealers and shipments and movement throughout the island. Between 1993 and 2000, 1,000 police officers in Puerto Rico lost their jobs from the department due to criminal charges. Police corruption in Puerto Rico stems from the fact that police officers make small wages and are so close to the cocaine trafficking.\n\nOperation Guard Shack was a two-year FBI investigation into law enforcement corruption in Puerto Rico. The operation came to a conclusion on 6 October 2010 with a series of pre-dawn raids that led to over 130 arrests of members of the Puerto Rico Police Department, various municipal departments, and the Puerto Rico Corrections Department. The operation began at 3 a.m., when 65 tactical teams, including FBI SWAT and the Hostage Rescue Team (HRT), fanned out across the island in a series of sneak attack arrests. On hand were a range of Bureau personnel—crisis negotiators, evidence response team members, canines and their handlers, and 80 medical personnel from first responders and nurses to a trauma surgeon and a veterinarian. The central thread of the corruption was law enforcement officers providing protection and other services to drug traffickers. Over 1,000 agents of the FBI conducted the raids. Many of them were flown in secretly. The agency characterized the action as, \"likely the largest police corruption case in the FBI's history.\"\n\nIt is cheap and easy to buy and deal to the public in housing projects in Puerto Rico, leading to the second highest homicide rates in the United States or its territories. New gangs like La ONU and Rompe ONU are also prominent in Puerto Rico. They have been known to be involved in the selling of cocaine, heroin, and marijuana in Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Puerto Rican government has implemented a series of law enforcement operations in relation to the federal \"war on drugs\" in order to minimize drug-related crimes and trafficking on the island. In 1985, the government started Operation Greenback, an investigation by the FBI, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), into the inconsistencies between the drastic increase of cash flow into the Puerto Rican economy and the double digit unemployment rate and bad economy in the 70s and early 1980s. The operation uncovered money laundering schemes from within financial institutions and from the sale of illegal lottery tickets. Federal agents raided 10 banks and arrested 17 people on money laundering charges.\n\nIn 1990, Operation Lucky Strike was put in motion by the FBI and local law enforcement officials, when residents of Vega Baja unearthed $20 million on a nearby farm. They tried to stop the circulation of the illegal money and mobilized to arrest the individuals connected to the money.\n\n\nRegional:\n\n"}
{"id": "21015029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21015029", "title": "Immigration to Norway", "text": "Immigration to Norway\n\nIn 2017, Norway's immigrant population consisted of 883,751 people, making up 16.8% of the country's total population. This includes both foreign-born and Norwegian-born with two foreign-born parents, and four foreign-born grandparents. In this population, 724,987 are foreign-born immigrants, while 158,764 are norwegian-born with foreign-born parents. The ten most common countries of origin of immigrants residing in Norway are Poland (97,196), Lithuania (37,638), Sweden (36,315), Somalia (28,696), Germany (24,601), Iraq & Kurdistan region (22,493), Syria (20,823), Philippines (20,537), Iran & Kordestan province (21,364) Pakistan (19,973). The immigration population comprises people from a total of 221 countries and autonomous regions.\n\nImmigration to Norway has increased over the last decades, beginning in the early 1990s. In 1992, the immigrant population in Norway was 183,000 individuals, representing 4.3% of the total population, and the net migration consisted of 9,105 people. In 2012, net migration peaked, as 48,714 people came to the country. Starting in 2013, net migration has decreased. In 2016, net migration was 27,778\".\" \n\nImmigrants from specific countries are divided into several ethnic groups. For example, there are both Turks and Kurds from Turkey, Sinhalese and Tamils from Sri Lanka, Arabs and Barbarians from Morocco, Jews and Palestinans from Israel, Macedonians and Albanians from Macedonia. Immigrants from Iran are divided into Persians, Azeris, Kurds and Lurs.\n\nHistorical immigration to Norway, started in the Viking Age. The practice of Royal intermarriage was common in European aristocracies and elsewhere. Norwegian kings used to seek their wives from other Royal houses, in order to foster ties with foreign countries. See the Kings of Norway family tree.\n\nOther historical fields linked to migrations were trade and academia, bringing workforce and innovation respectively. \nThe Hanseatic League introduced large scale trade in Bergen and Northern Norway. Mining in Kongsberg, Røros and other places was made possible by immigrants from nearby countries. During the 19th century the evolution of dairies and the industrial exploitation of waterfalls depended on immigrants.\nBefore the University was established in Christiania in 1811, almost all civil servants from up to \"circa\" 1500, were migrants.\n\nFrom the middle of the 20th century, the history of migration to Norway is characterized by four main phases. The first wave of immigrants came during the 1960s, as a result of demand of labor within the secondary labor market. This group was mainly dominated by men from Pakistan and Turkey, who came to work in the oil sector. The shock of the 1973 Oil Crisis resulted in an immigration stop to Norway, which ended this first wave. The next wave came the late 1970s, and consisted mostly of family members from former immigrants. The third wave of the mid 1980s, was a increasing flow of asylum seekers mainly from Iran, Chile, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and the former Yugoslavia. From the beginning of the 21st century until today, Norwegian immigration has been characterized by a more liberal approach to labor immigration, as well as stricter policies towards asylum seekers.\n\nAccording to the Norwegian Immigration Act, all foreigners have to apply for permanent residency in order to live and work in Norway, except for citizens of Nordic countries. There are four main reasons for immigration to Norway that are lawfully accepted - employment, education, protection and family reunification. In 2016, most Norwegian immigrants came for family reunification (16,465 people), followed by protection (15,190), work (14,372) and education (4,147). Of the total number of 788,531 people who immigrated between 1990 and 2016, most immigrated for family reunification (283,478), followed by work (262,669), protection (156,590) and education (80,956).\n\nNorway is part of the European Economic Area (EEA) and the Schengen area. This makes it easier for immigrants from the European countries to gain residency in Norway. In 2017, 41.2% of the total immigrant population in Norway were from countries in the EU or EEA. 32.4% were from Asia including Turkey, and 13.7% were from Africa. The remaining 12.7% were from European countries not in the EU or EEA, North America, South America and Oceania.\n\nIn 1999, the Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (Norwegian: \"Udlendingsdirektoratet\", UDI) started to use blood testing on Somalis who applied for family reunification with parents, the tests showed that 1 out of 4 lied about the family ties. The tests were later changed to DNA tests to verify family ties. The leader of a Somali community organization in Norway and the Norwegian Medical Association protested the tests and wished they would be discontinued. In 2010, UDI started DNA-tests on Somali childless couples who applied for family reunification where one spouse already resided in Norway. The results showed that 40% of such pairs were siblings. As the tests became widely known, the ratio dropped to 25% and the tests were widended to migrants from other regions.\n\nOne cause of immigration in the 20th and 21st century is the need for protection in a new country, due to wars or riots in the migrants' home countries. In the 1950s, refugees came from Hungary to Norway, and in the 1970s from Chile and Vietnam. In the mid-1980s, there was an increase in the number of asylum seekers from countries such as Iran and Sri Lanka. In the 1990s, war refugees from the Balkans were the predominant immigrant group accepted into Norway; a large number of which have since returned home to Kosovo. Since the end of the 1990s, new groups of asylum seekers from countries such as Iraq, Somalia, and Afghanistan arrived.\n\nThe Dublin Regulation in 2001 states that non-European refugees applying for asylum in a Dublin country, will only get their application processed once, in the country where they first apply for asylum.\n\nDuring the European migrant crisis in 2015, a total of 31,145 asylum seekers crossed the Norwegian border in 2015. The number had not been as high since the Balkan wars in 1990s. Most of the asylum seekers came from Afghanistan and Syria. In 2016, the number was dramatically reduced by almost 90%. In 2016, 3460 asylum seekers came to Norway. This was partly due to the stricter border control in Europe. The EU-Turkey agreement, implemented Mars 20th 2016, was made in order strengthen organized channels of immigration to Europe, and prevent irregular migration from Turkey to the EU.\n\nAs part of the UN, Norway receives UN quota refugees. In 2015, the Norwegian government announced that they would receive 8,000 Syrian quota refugees between 2015 and 2017.\n\nIn April 2016, Reuters reported that in the past year, Norway admitted 10 married children (children under 16 years of age). Four had children of their own. The Norwegian Directorate of Immigration (UDI) stated that \"some\" of the married children in Norway live \"with their partners.\" The head of the PLAN charity stated: \"\"If the girl is aged under 16, the minimum age for sexual intercourse in Norway, the child bride refugee should be separated from her husband even if they have children together.\"\n\nAs of 2014, an official study showed that 4,081,000 people or 79.9% of the total population were Norwegians having no migrant background (both of their parents were born in Norway) and more than 759,000 individuals (14.9%) were immigrants—or descendants of recent immigrants—from neighbouring countries and the rest of the world. A further 235,000 (4.6%) were born in Norway to one foreign-born parent, and 34,000 (0.7%) were born abroad to one parent born in Norway.\n\nIn 2012, of the total 710,465 with immigrant background, 407,262 had Norwegian citizenship (60.2 percent).\nOf these 13,2%, 335,000 (51%) had a Western background mostly from Poland, Germany, and Sweden. \n325,000 (49%) had a non-Western background mostly from Turkey, Morocco, Iraq, Somalia, Pakistan and Iran. Immigrants were represented in all Norwegian municipalities. \nThe cities or municipalities with the highest share of immigrants in 2012 were Oslo (30.4 percent), Drammen (25 percent), Lørenskog (23 per cent) and Skien (19.6 percent). According to Reuters, Oslo is the \"fastest growing city in Europe because of increased immigration\". In recent years, immigration has accounted for most of Norway's population growth.\n\nIn 2010, the immigrant community grew by 57,000, which accounted for 90% of Norway's population growth; some 2% of newborn children were of immigrant background (two foreign parents). These statistics indicate that Norway's population is now 87.8% ethnic Norwegian, a figure that has steadily decreased since the late 20th century. Some 12.2% of the population is of solely immigrant background, while 5.7% of the population is of mixed Norwegian-foreign ancestry. People of other European ethnicity are 5.8% of the total, while Asians (including Pakistanis, and Iraqis) are 4.3%, Africans 1.5%, and others 0.6%.\n\nImmigration has altered the religious demography of Norway. Among the immigrants, 250,030 have background from predominantly Christian countries, 119,662 from predominantly Muslim countries, 28,942 from mostly Buddhist countries, and 7,224 from countries that are predominantly Hindu. The proportion of Muslim immigrants has fallen drastically in recent years, from about 80% in 2000 to less than 20% in 2007.\n\nAs of 2008 there were living in Norway somewhere between 120,000 and 163,000 persons who had either immigrated from or who had parents who had immigrated from countries where Islam is the predominant religion, accounting for up to 3.4% of the country's total population. This number should interpreted with caution according to a report by Statistics Norway, as there are significant religious minorities in several of these countries, and varying degrees of commitment to the religion. In the same year, 84,000 persons were members of an Islamic congregation. The largest single denomination besides the state church is the Roman Catholic Church, which had a membership of more than 54,000 in 2008. It gained about 10,000 new members, mostly Poles, in the period 2004-2008. Other religions which have increased mainly as a result of recent post-war immigration (with percentages of adherents in parenthesis), include Hinduism (0.5%), Buddhism (0.4%), Eastern Orthodoxy and Oriental Orthodoxy (0.2%) and the Bahá'í Faith (<0.1%).\n\nStatistics Norway has been criticized in 2018 for misrepresenting employment levels for African and Asian immigrants due to employment was counted from 1 weekly hour of work. Counting full-time employment as 30 hours of work per week, the figures were significantly lower. While official figures show that 35.2% of Pakistani female immigrants are employed, only 20% are in full time employment.\n\nImmigrant employment rates are generally higher in Norway than overall employment rates in most countries , the overall unemployment rate among immigrants being 6.5% in May 2011, totalling about 20,000 persons. The unemployment rate in the population as a whole was 2.7% at this time. There are differences between immigrant groups. People with African backgrounds have the highest unemployment rates, with 12.4%. Unemployment rates among immigrants from Asia and Eastern Europe were 8.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Persons born in Norway to immigrant parents, still a young and relatively small demographic, had an unemployment rate of 5.0%, totalling 766 persons. This was 1.6 percentage points above persons with Norwegian-born parents in the same age group, and 2.1 percentage points below immigrants in the same age group.\n\nOverall workforce participation in the immigrant population was 61.6% in 2010, compared to 71.9% for the population as a whole. African immigrants had the lowest workforce participation, with 43.9%. Persons born to immigrant parents had a workforce participation of 53.0%, similar to that of the corresponding age demographic with Norwegian-born parents.\n\nFrom 1977 to 2012, the number of non-Norwegian citizens living in Norway of European descent has increased from around 46,000 to around 280,000. In the same period the number of citizens of nations on other continents increased from about 25,000 to about 127,000, of which 112,230 from Middle East, Asia, Africa and South America. If persons with two immigrant parents are counted, the total immigrant population has risen from 57,041 in 1970 to 710 465 in 2012, the non-European proportion rose from 20.1% to 46.1%. The proportion of women in the immigrant population shifted from 56.1% in 1970 to 48.0% in 2012. According to a book chapter published by Amsterdam University in 2008 and authored by Prof. Mete Feridun of University of Greenwich, immigration has a positive impact on economic growth in Norway and it has no statistically significant impact on unemployment in the job market.\n\nThe overall probability that a person living in Norway would be convicted for a felony () was increased by about 0.5 percentage points for the immigrant compared to non-immigrant populations for felonies committed in the years 2001-2004. The incidence was especially high among immigrants from Kosovo, Morocco, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and Chile, and reached more than 2% in all these groups. In comparison, the incidence in the non-immigrant population was about 0.7%. Incidence was lower than for the non-immigrant population among immigrants from among others, Western European countries, Eastern Europe except Poland, the Balkans and Russia, the Philippines, China and North America. Incidence was also higher for persons with two immigrant parents for all countries of origin, including Nordic and Western European countries. When the data was corrected for the population group's age and gender structure (the most over-represented immigrant groups also have a considerable over-representation of young men), place of residence (rural–central) and employment situation, the over-representation was found to be significantly lower, especially for those groups which had the highest incidence in the uncorrected statistics. For some groups, among them immigrants from Bosnia-Herzegovina, Poland, Russia and the other Eastern European countries, the corrected incidences did not differ significantly from the non-immigrant population.\n\nAccording to data released by the European Council, 341 out of the year 2000 prison inmate population of 2643 were foreign nationals, a share of 12.9%. In the year 2010 foreign nationals represented 1129 out of a 3636 total, a 31.1% share. These figures were corroborated by officials of the Norwegian Correctional Service which stated the rising trend escalated when 8 countries joined the Schengen Area in 2007. In order to decrease costs for interpreters and other special needs of foreign inmates, foreign nationals serving sentences involving subsequent deportation were in 2012 incarcerated in an institution holding only foreigners as they are not intended to be re-integrated into Norwegian society. This institution opened in December 2012 in Kongsvinger.\n\nIn September 2016 Norwegian authorities discovered that more than a million identity papers had been issued without stringent checks which enabled fraudsters to claim social welfare benefits of many persons simultaneously. The Norwegian system is based on trust and cohesion in society and therefore lacks stringent identity checks at every single government agency.\n\nIn 2017, a Statistics Norway (SSB) report on crime in Norway was ordered by the immigration minister Sylvi Listhaug. SSB limited the scope of the paper to figures for individual nations from which at least 4,000 immigrants lived in Norway as of January 1, 2010. In the 2010-2013 period, the proportion of foreign-born perpetrators of criminal offences aged 15 and older per 1000 residents in Norway was found to be highest among immigrants from South and Central America (164.0), Africa (153.8), and Asia including Turkey (117.4), and lowest among immigrants from Eastern Europe (98.4), other Nordic countries (69.1), and Western Europe outside the Nordic region (50.7). This was compared to averages of 44.9 among native Norwegians and 112.9 among Norway-born residents with parents of foreign origin. Among individual countries of origin for which figures were provided, the estimated proportion of foreign-born perpetrators was highest among immigrants from Kosovo (131.48), Afghanistan (127.62), Iraq (125.29), Somalia (123.81), and Iran (108.60). Immigrants from Poland were the only over-represented population for which gender and age structure, employment and place of residence, could explain their over-representation. The total number of perpetrators in the 2010-2013 period with Norwegian background was and with immigration background.\n\nAccording to Statistics Norway, as of 2015, a total of 260,868 persons residing in Norway incurred sanctions. Of these, most were citizens of countries in Europe (240,497 individuals), followed by Asia (2,899 individuals), Africa (2,469 individuals), the Americas (909 individuals), and Oceania (92 individuals). There were also 13,853 persons sanctioned who had unknown citizenship, and 149 persons sanctioned without citizenship. The five most common countries of origin of foreign citizens in Norway who incurred sanctions were Poland (7,952 individuals), Lithuania (4,227 individuals), Sweden (3,490 individuals), Romania (1,953 individuals) and Denmark (1,728 individuals).\n\nIn 2007 was the first time when foreign perpetrators of partner murders were in the majority. While 13% of Norway's population are foreigners, they represent 47% of perpetrators who have murdered their partner. The most prevalent countries of origin were: Iran, Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia and Eritrea.\n\nIn 2018, an investigation into court cases involving domestic violence against children showed that 47% of the cases involved parents who were both born abroad. According to a researcher at Norwegian Police University College the over-representation was due to cultural (honor culture) and legal differences in Norway and foreign countries.\n\nThe Directorate of Immigration (UDI) is responsible for the administration of immigration into the country. Before the UDI was established in 1988, several government organisations were involved in administrating immigration. Another body, \"Integrerings- og mangfoldsdirektoratet\" (IMDi) (Directorate of Integration and Diversity), \"contribute[s] to equality in living conditions and diversity through employment, integration and participation\".\n\nIn some nation states there is some opposition to immigration. The Progress Party has made the reduction of high levels of immigration from non-European countries one of their agendas:\n\nAn extreme form of opposition to immigration in Norway was carried out by the terrorist Anders Behring Breivik on 22 July 2011. He bombed government buildings in Oslo and massacred 69 young people at a youth summer camp held by the Labour Party. He blamed the party for the high level of Muslim immigration and accused it of \"promoting multiculturalism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15185268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15185268", "title": "Intercommunal conflict in Mandatory Palestine", "text": "Intercommunal conflict in Mandatory Palestine\n\nThe intercommunal conflict in Mandatory Palestine was the civil, political and armed struggle between Palestinian Arabs and Jewish Yishuv during the British rule in Mandatory Palestine, beginning from the violent spillover of the Franco-Syrian War in 1920 and until the onset of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nZionist leaders and advocates followed conditions in the land of Israel closely and travelled there regularly. Their concern, however, was entirely with the future of Jewish settlement. The future of the land's Arab inhabitants concerned them as little as the welfare of the Jews concerned Arab leaders. During the movement's formative stages, Zionist negotiators with stronger political powers (such as the British) corresponded enthusiastically while remaining silent about the inhabitants of Palestine, who numbered just under half a million during the late nineteenth century.\n\nAccording to Anita Shapira, among nineteenth and early twentieth century Zionists, \"The Arabs in Palestine were viewed as one more of the many misfortunes present in Palestine, like the Ottoman authorities, the climate, difficulties of adjustment, [...] [T]he Zionist organization did not discuss this issue during that period and did not formulate a political line on it. Yet at that particular juncture in the movement such deliberations [...] had about the same importance as the learned disputations customarily held in the courtyards of Hassidic rebbes regarding what would happen after the coming of the messiah.\"\n\nWhat thought Zionists did give to Arab national rights was perhaps typified by this passage by Israel Zangwill, written just after the first World War: 'The Arabs should recognize that the road of renewed national glory lies through Baghdad, Damascus and Mecca, and all the vast territories freed for them from the Turks and be content. [...] The powers that freed them have surely the right to ask them not to grudge the petty strip (Israel) necessary for the renaissance of a still more down-trodden people.' Thus from the beginning Zionists saw the Arab residents of Palestine as part of a larger Arab nation.\n\nMenachem Ussishkin and Ber Borochov, Zionist leaders in the Diaspora and, according to Anita Shapira, unfamiliar with true Arab attitudes, expressed their belief that the Palestinian Arabs would be assimilated by the Jews. Since the Jews were further developed they would take the lead in the development of the country and the Arabs would subject themselves to Jewish cultural influence and assimilate. Borochov also said that the Arabs were a \"people akin to us in blood and spirit\", and embraced the concept of the brotherhood between all the descendants of Shem as the basis of his outlook. According to Shapira, this approach was part of a campaign of self-persuasion that the Arabs would not threaten the realisation of Zionist aims.\n\nAccording to Jonah Frankel, the immigrants of the Second Aliyah had a strong secular and nationalist ethos. The attitude towards the Arabs took many forms, however. On one pole there were those like Yitshak Epstein and Rabi Binyamin, who held that Zionism should not antagonise the Arabs. Epstein advocated settlement only in areas unworked by the Arabs. Rabi Binyamin held that modern education, full equality and modernisation would bring the Arabs to accept massive Jewish immigration. On the other pole there were those who assumed that in order to reach their goal the Zionists would have to defeat violent Arab resistance. Brenner wrote \"There is now, there is bound to be, hatred between [Jews and Arabs], and it will exist in the future too.\". A mythology connecting descent to land was often a theme for them. For instance K.L. Silman wrote:\nAccording to Zerubavel, to advocate relaxation and make concessions towards the Arabs was to follow the Galut (exile) mentality. According to Frankel, this kind of mythology was an important part of the Second aliyah's political legacy.\n\nIn response to Arab attacks under the Turks, the Zionists in Palestine established Hashomer (the Guardian), a self-defence organisation.\n\nUnder the Ottomans, Palestine's Arab population mostly saw themselves as Ottoman subjects, or religiously (either Muslim or Christian) throughout most of the 19th century. \n\nIn 1856, the Ottomans issued the Hatt-i Humayun, guaranteeing equal rights for all Ottoman subjects. Despite this, Muslims still viewed Jews as dhimmis: people protected by, but subordinate to Muslims. This changed when, due to Jewish immigration and land purchase in the late 19th century, they realised that Zionism wanted to make a Jewish state in Palestine. Both Palestinian Christians and Muslims were worried.\n\nIn 1897, an Arab commission was formed in Jerusalem, headed by the mufti, to investigate land sales to Jews. Its protests led to the cessation of these sales for a number of years. Arab peasants usually protested if Jewish landowners ousted them from their homes, and violence and armed resistance did occur. However Jewish landownership was accepted if the peasants were permitted to stay.\n\nYusuf al-Khalidi, a prominent Jerusalemite, wrote to the chief rabbi of France that the implementation of Zionism would require \"brute force\". Rashid Rida stated in 1902 that Zionism did not simply seek a safe haven for the Jews, but aimed at national sovereignty. Naguib Azoury, a Maronite Christian from Beirut, predicted violent clashes between Arabs and Jews in Palestine.\n\nAfter the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, Arab nationalism grew rapidly in the area and most Arab nationalists regarded Zionism as a threat, although a minority perceived Zionism as providing a path to modernity. According to C. D. Smith, this was due to the emergence of Labour Zionism, which openly opposed Jewish employment of Arabs, condemned leaving Arab peasants on land held by Jews, and aimed at a separate Jewish entity in Palestine. Since these issues were discussed in the Jewish press, they also became known to Palestinian Arabs, especially after a Palestinian Arab press had appeared. The two most anti-Zionist newspapers \"Al-Karmil\", founded in 1908 in Haifa, and \"Filastin\", founded in 1911 in Jaffa, were run by Orthodox Christians. In the Ottoman parliament in Istanbul, Palestinian representatives called for greater Ottoman vigilance against Zionism.\n\nYosef Gorny investigated the ideological characteristics of Zionism in the Jewish-Arab confrontation in his book \"Zionism and the Arabs, 1882–1948\". He says two ideological questions were important. The first was whether the Palestinian Arabs were part of a greater Arab nation or constituted a separate Palestinian national entity. The second was to what extent Zionism could base its demands on historical rights. Zionism's aim \"to construct in Palestine a distinct Jewish national society\" meant that it also honoured certain principles that affected its attitude towards the Arabs. Gorny distinguishes the \"desire for \"territorial concentration\" of the Jewish people in Palestine\", the \"desire to create a \"Jewish majority\" in Palestine\", the \"belief that exclusive employment of Jewish labour was the precondition for an independent Jewish society\", and the \"renaissance of Hebrew culture [as] a pre-condition for the rebirth of the nation\".\n\nGorny also distinguishes several important developments that had their bearing on the confrontation and the Zionists' attitude. Up to 1917, Zionism was tolerated as a national movement in the Ottoman Empire. After 1917, Palestine became a Mandate administrated by the British, and the right of the Jewish people to a national homeland in Palestine was recognised by the British and the League of Nations. In 1948, the state of Israel was established. Simultaneously, the Palestine problem became an ever more important subject for Jews, Arabs and the international community. During this period the demographic balance changed from one Jew in every 23 inhabitants in 1880 to one Jew in every three inhabitants in 1947 (see table). Finally, Gorny says the uneven pace of Westernization gave the Jewish society a technological and organizational advantage. Jewish society was mainly urban, Arab society mainly rural.\n\nIn his book \"Zionism and the Palestinians\", Flapan distinguishes six basic concepts of Zionism's policy toward the Arabs: \"(1) gradual build-up of an economic and military potential as the basis for achievement of political aims, (2) alliance with a great power external to the Middle East; (3) non-recognition of the existence of a Palestine national entity; (4) Zionism's civilising mission in an undeveloped area; (5) economic, social and cultural segregation as prerequisites for the renaissance of Jewish national life; (6) the concept of 'peace from strength'.\"\n\nNorman Finkelstein says the \"strategic consensus [in the Zionist movement] on the Arab Question was remarkable\". This consensus was informed by three premises: (1) \"the Zionist movement should neither expect, nor seek the acquiescence of the Palestinian Arabs\"; (2) \"the success of the Zionist enterprise was dependent on the support of one (or more) Great Power(s)\"; (3) the Palestine conflict should be resolved within the framework of a regional alliance subordinate to the interests of the Great Power(s)\".\n\nIn line with earlier promises by Ben-Gurion, Israel's Declaration of Independence states that \"[Israel] will ensure complete equality of social and political rights to all its inhabitants irrespective of religion, race or sex.\"\n\nVarious factors increased Arab fears after World War I. Among these were the creation of Palestine in 1918 and the Balfour Declaration. The British also granted Zionist requests that Hebrew become a language with an equal status to Arab in official proclamations, that Jewish government employees earn more than Arab and that the Zionists were permitted to fly their flag, whereas Arabs were not. Many Jews in Palestine acted as if the achievement of a Jewish state was imminent. Furthermore, in 1919 some Jewish papers called for forced emigration of Palestinian Arabs.\n\nFor a while, the Muslim–Christian Association, founded in November 1918 and made up of leading notables, became the leading Palestinian nationalist forum. Younger Palestinian Arabs saw the inclusion of Palestine in a pan-Arab state as the best means to foil Zionist goals. Among them was the future mufti of Jerusalem, Haj Amin al-Husseini. They wanted to join Palestine with Syria, ruled by King Faisal. They were suspicious of Faisal, though, because of his apparent collaboration with Chaim Weizmann, and identified more with the Syrian National Congress.\n\nThe Franco-Syrian War erupted in March 1920, as an attempt to establish an Arab Hashemite Kingdom in all of the Levant. In a number of notable incidents the war spilled into neighbouring Mandatory Palestine, including the Battle of Tel Hai in March 1920. Further, in April 1920, Amin al-Husseini and other Arab leaders initiated the 1920 Jerusalem riots where 10 people were killed and 250 others wounded. Several women were raped and two synagogues burned. Jews were particularly shocked by these events and viewed the events as a pogrom.\n\nAfter the British had left Syria for the French, in July 1920, Faisal's rule in Syria collapsed and pan-Arab hopes in Palestine were dashed.\n\nIsrael's Declaration of Independence states \"In [1897] the First Zionist Congress convened and proclaimed the right of the Jewish people to national rebirth in its own country.\" and further on, \"we, [the signatories] by virtue of our natural and historic right and on the strength of the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, hereby declare the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz Israel.\" This illustrates Zionism's claim of a \"historic right\" as a \"people\" to the Land of Israel.\n\nAll three tendencies within Zionism's consensus, political, labour and cultural Zionism, demanded a Jewish majority. Adherents of political Zionism argued that national bonds were the most important bonds linking individuals. They argued that \"Jews constituted an 'alien' presence amidst states 'belonging' to other, numerically preponderant, nationalities.\" They proposed to remedy this by forming a state with a Jewish majority. According to Finkelstein, labour Zionism added to this that a Jewish state was the only way to amend the deficit of Jewish labourers in the Diaspora and to create a healthy class structure among Jews. Cultural Zionism wanted to counter the danger of assimilation and loss of Jewish culture. To them, a Jewish majority would ensure a spiritual centre for the 'unbridled spiritual renaissance of the Jewish people'.\n\nAccording to Finkelstein, \"the mainstream Zionist movement never doubted its 'historical right' to impose a Jewish state through the 'Right of Return' on the indigenous Arab population of Palestine\", and in fact claimed for the Jewish people a prevalent right to Israel, their historical homeland, and acceded the Arabs only rights as incidental residents. Zionism justified this with two 'facts': the bond of the Jewish nation with Palestine, as derived from its history, was unique, while the Arabs of Palestine were part of the Arab nation and therefore had no special bond with Palestine. Therefore, the Jews had a preemptive right to Palestine. For example, Aaron David Gordon, whose teachings formed the main intellectual inspiration of the labour leaders, wrote in 1921:'For Eretz Israel, we have a charter that has been valid until now and that will always be valid, and that is the Bible [... including the Gospels and the New Testament ...] It all came from us; it was created among us. [...] And what did the Arabs produce in all the years they lived in the country? Such creations, or even the creation of the Bible alone, give us a perpetual right over the land in which we were so creative, especially since the people that came after us did not create such works in this country, or did not create anything at all.' According to Zeev Sternhell, \"The founders accepted this point of view. This was the ultimate Zionist argument.\"\n\nY. Gorny says leaders from various branches of Zionism claimed such a prevalent right:\nThe dissident Zionists in Brit Shalom and Ihud thought differently. Hugo Bergmann wrote in 1929: \"our opponents [in mainstream Zionism] hold different views. When they speak of Palestine, of our country, they mean 'our country', that is to say 'not \"their\" country' [... this belief is based on the concept that in a State] one people, among the people residing there, should be granted the majority right.\", and Ernst Simon held that the historical right \"is binding on us rather than on the Arabs\" and therefore an agreement with the Arabs is necessary.\n\nAccording to Anita Shapira, in the early 1940s young Jews came to believe that \"[t]he land was theirs, theirs alone. This feeling was accompanied by a fierce sense of possessiveness, of joyous anticipation of the fight for it\".\n\nAccording to Simha Flapan, a basic concept of Zionist political thinking was the non-recognition of the existence of a Palestinian national entity. He says that Golda Meir's widely published pronouncement that \"There was no such thing as Palestinians\", was the cornerstone of Zionist policy, initiated by Weizmann and faithfully carried out by Ben-Gurion and his successors. However, Gorny has documented a range of attitudes held by Zionists towards the Palestinian Arabs, a phenomenon which implies recognition, even if only by way of opposition, of a Palestinian national entity.\n\nThis argument supported the Zionist claim of the \"historical right\": the Jews could claim Palestine as the homeland of their nation, while the Palestinian Arabs could not.\n\nThe land longed for by the Zionist movement was \"Eretz Israel\". Anita Shapira says this term was \"a holy term, vague as far as the exact boundaries of the territories are concerned but clearly defining ownership\". According to Finkelstein the longed for land incorporated Palestine, Transjordan, the Golan height and the southern part of Lebanon. Ben-Gurion said he wanted to \"concentrate the masses of our people in this country and its environs.\" When he proposed accepting the Peel proposals in 1937, which included a Jewish state in part of Palestine, Ben–Gurion told the twentieth Zionist Congress:\nIn a discussion in the Jewish Agency he said that he wanted a Jewish–Arab agreement \"on the assumption that after we become a strong force, as a result of the creation of the state, we shall abolish partition and expand to the whole of Palestine.\" In a letter to his son Amos he wrote in 1937 that a Jewish state in part of Palestine was \"not the end, but only the beginning.\" It would give a \"powerful boost to our historic efforts to redeem the country in its entirety\". He wrote that he had \"no doubt that our army will be among the world's outstanding—and so I am certain that we won't be constrained from settling in the rest of the country, either by nutual agreement and understanding with our Arab neighbours, or by some other way.\"\n\nAt the Biltmore Conference in 1942 Ben-Gurion formulated the Zionists' demand 'not as a Jewish state in Palestine but as Palestine as a Jewish state'. The Biltmore Program, adopted at that conference by various Zionist and non-Zionist Jewish organizations, called for \"Palestine [to] be established as a Jewish Commonwealth\".\n\nDuring the pre-statehood period in Palestine, Ben-Gurion represented the mainstream Jewish establishment and was known as a moderate. He was strongly opposed to the Revisionist Zionist movement led by Ze'ev Jabotinsky and his successor Menachem Begin. Ben-Gurion rarely invoked the \"historical right\" of the Jewish people to Eretz Israel, but preferred to emphasize the right derived from the Jewish need for a homeland and the universal right to settle and develop uncultivated land.\n\nAccording to Teveth, during many years Ben-Gurion's principal claim was the Jewish right to work the land, especially the eighty percent of Palestine which was uncultivated, and to win it through Jewish labour. \"We have the right to build and be built in Palestine\". The right to possess a land derived from the continued willingness to work and develop it, and in that respect Jews and Arabs had equal rights. However Ben-Gurion expressed the belief that the Arabs would fare well by the Jews' renewal of the country, because it also meant the renewal of its Arab population. According to Teveth, \"the Arabs, themselves incapable of developing the country, had no right to stand in the way of the Jews. In 1918 [Ben-Gurion] determined that rights did not spring from the past but from the future, and in 1924 he declared: 'We do not recognize the right of Arabs to rule the country, since Palestine is undeveloped and still awaits its builders.'\" Ben-Gurion said that the Arabs \"have a right only to that which they have created and to their own homes\".\n\nBen-Gurion had a realistic view of the strong attachment of Arab Palestinians to the Palestinian soil. In 1938 he said: 'In our political argument abroad we minimize Arab opposition to us. But let us not ignore the truth among ourselves. [...] A people which fights against the usurpation of its land will not tire so easily.' According to Flapan, Ben-Gurion's assessment of Arab feelings led him to an even more militant line on the need to build up Jewish military strength: \"I believe in our power, in our power which will grow, and if it will grow agreement will come...\".\n\nAccording to Teveth, one can trace in Ben-Gurion's thought an \"evolution, away from a vision of Zionism as a movement for absolute justice bearing a universal message, a movement of peace and constructive labor. His revised view of Zionism, [...] was a movement of relative justice with the Jews its sole concern, a movement prepared to wage war and to take the country, by force, if necessary.\"\n\nThe British 1939 White paper stipulated that Jewish immigration to Palestine was to be limited to 15,000 a year for the first five years, and would subsequently be contingent on Arab consent. After this Ben-Gurion changed his policy towards the British, stating: \"Peace in Palestine is not the best situation for thwarting the policy of the white Paper\". Ben-Gurion believed a peaceful solution with the Arabs had no chance and soon began preparing the Yishuv for war. According to Teveth, \"through his campaign to mobilize the Yishuv in support of the British war effort, he strove to build the nucleus of a 'Hebrew army', and his success in this endeavor later brought victory to Zionism in the struggle to establish a Jewish state.\"\n\nIn public, Ben-Gurion upheld the official position of his party that denied the necessity of force in achieving Zionist goals. Unlike Weizmann, Ben-Gurion did have a realistic view of the strong attachment of Arab Palestinians to the Palestinian soil. In 1938 he said: \"In our political argument abroad we minimize Arab opposition to us. But let us not ignore the truth among ourselves. [...] A people which fights against [what it conceives as] the usurpation of its land will not tire so easily.\" According to Flapan, Ben-Gurion's assessment of Arab feelings led him to an even more militant line on the need to build up Jewish military strength: \"I believe in our power, in our power which will grow, and if it will grow agreement will come...\".\n\nIn the epilogue of \"Ben-Gurion and the Palestinian Arabs\", Shabtai Teveth evaluates Ben-Gurion's policy towards the Arabs up to 1936 as follows:\nA careful comparison of Ben-Gurion's public and private positions leads inexorably to the conclusion that this twenty-year denial of the conflict was a calculated tactic, born of pragmatism rather than profundity of conviction. The idea that Jews and Arabs could reconcile their differences through class solidarity, a notion he championed between 1919 and 1929, was a delaying tactic. Once the Yishuv had gained strength, Ben-Gurion abandoned it. The belief in a compromise solution, which Ben-Gurion professed for the seven years between 1929 and 1936, was also a tactic, designed to win continued British support for Zionism. The only genuine convictions that underlay Ben-Gurion's approach to the Arab question were two: that the support of the power that rules Palestine was more important to Zionism than any agreement with the Arabs, and that the Arabs would reconcile themselves to the Jewish presence only after they conceded their inability to destroy it.\n\nFor Ben-Gurion, any agreement with the Palestinian Arabs should be based on Arab acquiescence to Zionist hegemony. That would result from Arab recognition of Zionist power and Arab weakness. In talks with Arabs in the 1930s Ben-Gurion tried to impress Jewish strength on them, e.g. by calling for a Jewish state including Transjordan.\n\nIn Chaim Weizmann's view, Palestine was a Jewish and not an Arab country; however, Weizmann believed that the state had to be based on justice and on an accommodation with the Arabs.\n\nIn 1918, Weizmann toured Palestine as head of the Zionist Commission and met with Arab and Palestinian–Arab leaders, including the future mufti al-Husseini. He preferred to negotiate a political solution primarily with the British, and sometimes with non-Palestinian Arabs, but he opposed negotiating with the Palestinians themselves. According to Jehuda Reinharz, he focused his efforts on the Pan-Arab leadership of the Hussein family because they were (initially) willing to reach an accommodation in return for Zionist support while he failed to reach any understanding with Palestinian Arab leaders.\n\nWeizmann rejected the idea that population transfer of Palestinians to other Arab countries was immoral (Under the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne, Turks and Greeks had agreed a mutual transfer arrangement). According to Flapan, this idea was in the back of his mind, although he didn't say this in public. In 1930 he did however urge the British to consider transfer of Palestinians to Transjordan.\n\nAccording to Flapan, Weizmann preferred to negotiate a political solution primarily with the British, and sometimes with non-Palestinian Arabs, but he opposed negotiating a solution with the Palestinians themselves. In the early 1920s he came out vehemently against the attempts of Judah Leon Magnes to mediate with the Arabs. Magnes' proposal included a Palestinian state to be established with proportional voting. Weizmann was vehemently opposed to the setting up of representative institutions in Palestine. According to Gorny, Weizmann \"did not regard the Palestinian Arabs as partners in negotiations on the future of Palestine\".\n\nAccording to Arthur Ruppin, formerly in charge of the Jewish Agency, Weizmann and other Zionist leaders failed to grasp the nature and importance of the Arab question. Ruppin told the Agency in May 1936: \"Dr Weizmann once told me how he received the Balfour Declaration. And when I asked him, 'And what did you think then in reality on the Arab question?' he replied, 'The English told us that [there are] some hundred of thousands [of] blacks there, and this has no importance.' This shows me that at that time our leaders didn't have a clue regarding the Arab question, and even much later they relegated this question to the margins.\"\n\nZe'ev Jabotinsky, the leader of the Revisionist Zionists, thought the Arabs were completely irrelevant to the question of Zionism except as enemies. In his view, the conflict with the Arabs was natural and inevitable and could not be solved until the Zionists could face the Arabs with an \"iron wall\" of Jewish power.\n\nA minority of Zionists, including the Socialist Zionist movement Hashomer Hatzair, sought to create a bi-national state. However, this approach was unpopular with both Arabs and Jews.\n\nThe \"transfer idea\" refers to Zionist thinking about the possibility of transfer of Palestinian Arabs out of Palestine, or a future Jewish part of Palestine, for the benefit of the goals of Zionism. Zionist organisations discussed it plenary in relation to the 1937 Peel recommendations. In the historical debate since the 1980s it has often been discussed in relation to the 1948 Palestinian exodus. Proponents of this theory say that the driving force of the 1948 Palestinian exodus was the Zionist leaders' belief that a Jewish state could not survive with a strong Arab population and that a population transfer would be most beneficial.\n\nAccording to Israeli historian Benny Morris, \"many if not most of Zionism's mainstream leaders expressed at least passing support for the idea of transfer during the movement's first decades. True, as the subject was sensitive they did not often or usually state this in public.\" Israeli historian and former diplomat Shlomo Ben-Ami wrote: \"The philosophy of transfer was not a marginal, esoteric article in the mindset and thinking of the main leaders of the Yishuv.\"\n\nAccording to Gorny, in the traditional view of most Zionists a mass exodus of Palestinian Arabs was a desirable solution of the \"Arab Question\".\n\nNorman Finkelstein argues that transferist thinking is close to the core of Zionist thinking. He says the Zionist claim of a prevalent right to all of Palestine, combined with its desire to establish a society that \"belonged\" to the Jews resulted in \"a radically exclusivist ideology, which renders non-Jews at best a redundant presence and easily lends itself to schemes favoring population transfer—and expulsion.\" Thus, \"Zionism's claim to the whole of Palestine [...] called into question any Arab presence in Palestine.\"\n\nTheodor Herzl supported the transfer idea. Land in Palestine was to be gently expropriated from the Palestinian Arabs and they were to be worked across the border \"unbemerkt\" (surreptitiously), e.g. by refusing them employment. Herzl's draft of a charter for a Jewish-Ottoman Land Company (JOLC) gave the JOLC the right to obtain land in Palestine by giving its owners comparable land elsewhere in the Ottoman Empire. According to Walid Khalidi this indicates Herzl's \"bland assumption of the transfer of the Palestinian to make way for the immigrant colonist.\"\n\nAccording to Nur Masalha, \"the defeat of the partition plan in no way diminished the determination of the Ben-Gurion camp […] to continue working for the removal of the native population\" In November 1937, a Population Transfer Committee was appointed to investigate the practicalities of transfer. It discussed details of the costs, specific places for relocation of the Palestinians, and the order in which they should be transferred. In view of the need for land, it concluded that the rural population should be transferred before the townspeople, and that a village by village manner would be best. In June 1938, Ben-Gurion summed up the mood in the JAE: \"I support compulsory transfer. I do not see anything immoral in it\". Regarding the unwillingness of the British to implement it, land expropriation was seen as a major mechanism to precipitate a Palestinian exodus. Also, the remaining Palestinians should not be left with substantial landholdings.\n\nThe role of the \"Transfer Idea\" in the 1948 Palestinian exodus is controversial. Although it is nowadays widely acknowledged by historians that Jewish military attacks were the main cause of the exodus, it is still debated whether or not there was an unofficial policy to this end. The \"transfer thinking\" in the Yishuv prior to 1948 may have played a role during the military planning process and also in the attitude of military leaders and soldiers towards Palestinians during the war.\n\nThe Palestinian Arab leadership based their requests to the British for national and political rights like representative government on several arguments:\n\nThe Islamic religious thought also had an influence on Palestinian positions, especially during the 1930s, leading to religious interpretation of the struggle against the British and the Jewish Yishuv. Among Islamists the issue was the application of Dar al-Islam for Palestine, as a term by Muslim scholars to refer to those countries where Muslims can practice their religion as the ruling sect and where certain religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Sabianism), are to be tolerated. Though the idea of defensive Jihad became popular among some Palestinian militants in the 1980s, the role model for this phenomenon appeared as early as the 1930s, with early Islamic militant groups such as the Black Hand (led by Syrian Islamist Izaddin al-Qassam) aiming to liberate Palestine from Christians and Jews within the context of Jihad.\n\nRobert Fisk, discussing the difficulties of describing al-Husseini's life and its motivations, summarized the problem in the following way:\n'(M)erely to discuss his life is to be caught up in the Arab–Israeli propaganda war. To make an impartial assessment of the man's career—or, for that matter, an unbiased history of the Arab–Israeli dispute—is like trying to ride two bicycles at the same time.'\n\nPhilip Mattar suggests that in 1939 al-Husseini should have accepted the favorable White Paper of 1939, or compromise with the Zionists. But the Mufti adapted a strategy of active and futile opposition and rejection, which contributed to the ultimate defeat of the Palestinians.\n\nPeter Novick has argued that the post-war historiographical depiction of al-Husseini reflected complex geopolitical interests that distorted the record.\n'The claims of Palestinian complicity in the murder of the European Jews were to some extent a defensive strategy, a preemptive response to the Palestinian complaint that if Israel was recompensed for the Holocaust, it was unjust that Palestinian Muslims should pick up the bill for the crimes of European Christians. The assertion that Palestinians were complicit in the Holocaust was mostly based on the case of the Mufti of Jerusalem, a pre-World War II Palestinian nationalist leader who, to escape imprisonment by the British, sought refuge during the war in Germany. The Mufti was in many ways a disreputable character, but post-war claims that he played any significant part in the Holocaust have never been sustained. This did not prevent the editors of the four-volume \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\" from giving him a starring role. The article on the Mufti is more than twice as long as the articles on Goebbels and Göring, longer than the articles on Himmler and Heydrich combined, longer than the article on Eichmann—of all the biographical articles, it is exceeded in length, but only slightly, by the entry for Hitler.'\n\nGilbert Achcar sums up al-Husseini's significance:\n\"One must note in passing that Amin al-Husseini's memoirs are an antidote against Holocaust denial: He knew that the genocide took place and boasted of having been perfectly aware of it from 1943 on. I believe he is an architect of the Nakba (the defeat of 1948 and the departure of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who had been driven out of their lands) in the sense that he bears a share of responsibility for what has happened to the Palestinian people.\"\n\nIn 1933, within weeks of Hitler's rise to power in Germany, the German Consul-General in Palestine, Heinrich Wolff, sent a telegram to Berlin reporting al-Husseini's belief that Palestinian Muslims were enthusiastic about the new regime and looked forward to the spread of Fascism throughout the region. Wolff met al-Husseini and many sheikhs again, a month later, at Nabi Musa. They expressed their approval of the anti-Jewish boycott in Germany and asked Wolff not to send any Jews to Palestine.\n\nThe Mufti collaborated with the Germans in numerous sabotage and commando operations in Iraq, Transjordan, and Palestine, and repeatedly urged the Germans to bomb Tel Aviv and Jerusalem 'in order to injure Palestinian Jewry and for propaganda purposes in the Arab world', as his Nazi interlocutors put it. The proposals were rejected as unfeasible. The Italian Fascists envisaged a project to establish him as head of an intelligence centre in North Africa, and he agreed to act as commander of both regular and irregular forces in a future unit flanking Axis troops to carry out sabotage operations behind enemy lines. Operation ATLAS was one such joint operation.\n\nThe Nashashibi family was considered to be politically moderate compared to the more militant views of the Husayni family. The Nashashibis favoured political, rather than violent, opposition to the British mandate and Zionism. They were also willing to compromise in some areas that many Palestinians were not. For example, the Nashashibi family favoured the partition proposed by Britain in 1937 and reservedly accepted the 1939 White Paper, though they backtracked when attacked by political opponents. Similarly, the Nashashibi also favoured Arab participation in the Legislative Council proposed by the British mandate, which would feature representatives of the various religious groups in Palestine at the time.\n\nRaghib Nashashibi, the head of the Nashashibi clan at the time, was an influential political figure throughout the British Mandate period, and beyond. He was appointed Mayor of Jerusalem in 1920 by the British, and helped form the Palestinian Arab National Party in 1928 and the National Defence Party in 1934. In 1936, he joined to the Arab Higher Committee, formed on the initiative of Amin al-Husayni, of the rival al-Husayni clan; however, Raghib and the clan-controlled National Defence Party soon withdrew from the Committee.\n\nGenerally, the Nashashibi family and their political followers advocated compromise with Zionists and the British authorities. This fell in stark contrast to the views of the Husaynis, who advocated a total rejection of the Balfour Declaration policy. The Palestine Arab Party, formed in 1935 by the Husayni’s in response to the formation of Nashashibi’s National Defense Party, believed in the maximalist dissolution of the Jewish National Home and creation of a solely Arab government. The Nashashibis, however, felt that Arabs were most likely to achieve their political goals by working within the Mandate system, rather than fighting against it.\n\nThroughout the British mandate period, the Husayni and Nashashibi clans were the two most powerful Arab families in Palestine and they constantly competed for power. While the two families did not differ on their long-term goals (stopping the influx of European Jews and preserving the Arab Palestinian state), they disagreed on the best way to achieve those goals. The Husayni family rejected the British mandate and Zionism as a whole, while the Nashashibis felt that the best approach was through political compromise.\n\nPolitics in Palestine as a whole largely diverged along the rift created by these two families. This produced a level of factionalism among Palestinian Arabs that often crippled them in fighting Zionism. Additionally, partisan bickering often resulted in one family blocking the policies of the other family that genuinely may have been in the national interest. Unfortunately for Palestinian Arabs, their ability to effectively negotiate was often hindered by their inability to present a united front on the issue of Zionism.\n\nIn 1920, the pro-Zionist Muslim National Associations was established by the mayor of Haifa, Hassan Bey Shukri and Sheikh Musa Hadeib, head of the farmers' party of Mt. Hebron. In July 1921, Shukri sent a telegram to the British government, declaring support for the Balfour Declaration and Jewish immigration to British Mandate Palestine:\nWe strongly protest against the attitude of the said delegation concerning the Zionist question. We do not consider the Jewish people as an enemy whose wish is to crush us. On the contrary. We consider the Jews as a brotherly people sharing our joys and troubles and helping us in the construction of our common country.\n\nAs'ad Shukeiri, a pro-Zionist Muslim scholar (‘alim) of the Acre area widely known for his opposition to the Palestinian Arab national movement, followed the same tendency. He met routinely with Zionist officials and had a part in pro-Zionist Arab organizations, publicly rejecting Haj Amin al-Husseini's use of Islam against Zionism.\n\nIn 1932 Ben-Gurion wrote:\n\nThe struggle for 'Jewish labour', for Jews to employ only Jews, signified the victory of Jewish labour in creating a new society. This struggle was constantly pushed by the leaders of the second Aliyah (1904–1914), who founded labour Zionism and in the 1930s became the leaders of the Zionist movement. Shortly after his arrival in Palestine in 1906 Ben-Gurion noted that a moshava, a private Jewish agricultural settlement, employed Arabs as guards. He asked himself: \"Was it conceivable that here too we should be deep in Galuth (exile), hiring strangers to guard our property and protect our lives?\". Soon Ben-Gurion and his companions managed to amend this situation. According to Teveth in these early years Ben-Gurion developed the concept of\" 'Avodah Ivrit', \"or 'Jewish labour'.\n\nThe leaders of the second Aliyah agreed that Jewish labour was vital for the national revival process as they were convinced that Jews should 'redeem' themselves by building with their own hands a new type of Jewish society. They also thought the use of Arab labour could create a typical colonial society, exploiting cheap, unorganised indigenous labour, and would hamper further Jewish immigration. Finally they considered manual labour a good therapy for Jews as individuals and as a people. In Ben-Gurion's opinion Jewish labour was \"not a means but a sublime end\", the Jew had to be transformed and made creative.\n\nIn 1907 Ben-Gurion called for Jewish labour on lands owned by the Jewish National Fund. There were difficulties here, because Arabs were prepared to work long hours for very low wages, and most Jewish immigrants preferred to settle in the cities. In this context occurred the development of the concept of the Kibbutz, 'the co-operative settlement based on self-labour and motivated by Zionist ideals'. In a summary made in 1956 Ben-Gurion said the Kibuutz movement was not started because of some socialist theory, but as an effective way to \"guarantee Jewish labour\".\n\nAround 1920 Ben-Gurion began to call for Jewish labour in the entire economy, and labour Zionism started striving for an absolute segregation of the Jewish and Arab national communities. In this way 'Jews and Arabs [...] would live in separate settlements and work in separate economies'. Ben-Gurion used the 1929 riots and the 1936 general strike as opportunities to further enforce his drive for Jewish labour. In 1930 the Hope Simpson Report blamed the Jewish labour policy for the grave unemployment in the Arab sector. According to Flapan in 1933 the Histadrut launched its first campaign to remove Arab workers from the cities. In many cases the removal of Arab workers 'took the form of ugly scenes of violence'. Reports of this in the Jewish and Arab press 'created an atmosphere of unprecedented tension'. According to Flapan this forceful eviction of Arab workers and the 'acrimonious propaganda' which accompanied the operation amplified Arab hostility and ultimately precipitated the outbreak of the Arab revolt in 1936.\n\nIn 1947 the UN Special Commission on Palestine summarized the situation:\nThe economic life presents the complex phenomenon of two distinctive economies—one Jewish and one Arab, closely involved with one another and yet in essential features separate. [...] Apart from a small number of experts, no Jewish workers are employed in Arab undertakings and apart from citrus groves, very few Arabs are employed in Jewish enterprises [...] Government service, the Potash company and the oil refinery are almost the only places where Arab and Jews meet as co-workers in the same organization. [...] There are considerable differences between the rates of wage for Arab and Jewish workers in similar occupations.\n\nFrom the Zionist point of view the Arabs would naturally object to Zionism, but that was a problem for the British to solve, and not for the Jews. As the terms of the mandate required, the British should keep the Arabs from becoming a political or even a military threat to Zionist goals. Therefore, for the Zionists British policy was more important than Arab policy.\n\nArab opposition was of course known to the Zionists. Ben-Gurion said in 1918: \"We as a nation want this country to be ours; the Arabs, as a nation, want this country to be theirs\". Resistance was to be expected. Jabotinsky said in 1921: \"I don't know of a single example in history where a country was colonised with the courteous consent of the population\".\n\nAccording to Flapan, one of the basic concepts of mainstream Zionism with regard to the Arab Palestinians was economic, social and cultural segregation as a means to create a Jewish national life. Especially the struggle for \"100 per cent of Jewish labour\" in the Jewish sector of the economy occupied the energies of the labour movement for most of the Mandatory years and contributed more than any other factor to the territorial, economic and social separation between Jews and Arabs.' According to C. D. Smith the Zionists did not intend to create a joint society with the Arabs, no matter how difficult this might be.\n\nAlthough the establishment of a Jewish majority or a Jewish state in Palestine was fundamentally at odds with the aspirations of the Arab inhabitants of Palestine, Zionists did not doubt their right to establish a Jewish majority in Palestine. Zionists justified this by referring to the 'unique' historical bond of the Jewish nation with Palestine, while the Arabs of Palestine were part of the Arab nation and therefore had no special bond with Palestine. Many Zionists claimed a 'preemptive right' to Palestine, the Jews had a right as a Nation, the Arabs only as individuals.\n\nIn May 1921, riots broke out in Jaffa, particularly around the Red House whose inhabitants were massacred. The riots were initially triggered by a May Day clash between the Mopsim and Ahdut HaAvoda, but quickly led to clashes between Jews and Arabs. 95 people were killed and 219 injured. As a consequence of the events, thousands of Jewish residents fled from Jaffa to Tel Aviv. A climate of mutual suspicious and hatred arose and grew.\n\nIn 1922, the British offered the Arabs to be represented in an official council. This council would exist of the High Commissioner and ten government officials, eight Muslims, two Jews and two Christians. The latter twelve would be elected by the population. However both Muslim and Christian Arabs decided to boycott the elections because the council was specifically denied the right to discuss matters pertaining to Jewish immigration. In 1923 and later Herbert Samuel proposed councils with equal compositions but with their members appointed by the High Commissioner. The Arabs refused again. According to C. D. Smith, for Arabs to accept would have meant a recognition of the Balfour Declaration, the mandate, which included the Balfour Declaration, and consequently a Jewish right to immigration, which would undermine their claim of self-determination.\n\nReligious tensions over Western Wall, an international economic crisis and nationalist tensions over Jewish immigration led to the 1929 Palestine riots. In these religious-nationalist riots, Jews were massacred in Hebron and the survivors were expelled from the town. Devastation also took place in Safed and Jerusalem. This violence was mainly directed against the non-Zionist orthodox communities; Zionist communities were able to defend themselves and had established defence organizations. As a result, the orthodox community in Palestine was increasingly dependent on Zionist support.\n\nAccording to C. D. Smith the British adherence to the terms of the mandate meant that there was no political way for the Palestinian Arabs to counter the loss of their country. \"Eventually violence became the only recourse.\"\n\nThe 1936 revolt was influenced by the Qassamite rebellion following the killing of Sheikh Izz ad-Din al-Qassam in 1935, as well as the declaration by Hajj Mohammad Amin al-Husayni of 16 May 1930 as 'Palestine Day' and calling for a General Strike.\n\nThe general strike lasted from April to October 1936, initiating the violent revolt. The revolt consisted of two distinct phases. The first phase was directed primarily by the urban and elitist Higher Arab Committee (HAC) and was focused mainly on strikes and other forms of political protest. By October 1936, this phase had been defeated by the British civil administration using a combination of political concessions, international diplomacy (involving the rulers of Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Transjordan and Yemen) and the threat of martial law. The second phase, which began late in 1937, was a violent and peasant-led resistance movement that increasingly targeted British forces. During this phase, the rebellion was brutally suppressed by the British Army and the Palestine Police Force, using repressive measures that were intended to intimidate the Arab population and undermine popular support for the revolt.\n\nAccording to official British figures covering the whole revolt, the army and police killed more than 2,000 Arabs in combat, 108 were hanged, and 961 died because of what they described as \"gang and terrorist activities\". In an analysis of the British statistics, Walid Khalidi estimates 19,792 casualties for the Arabs, with 5,032 dead: 3,832 killed by the British and 1,200 dead because of \"terrorism\", and 14,760 wounded. Over ten percent of the adult male Palestinian Arab population between 20 and 60 was killed, wounded, imprisoned or exiled. Estimates of the number of Palestinian Jews killed range from 91 to several hundred.\n\nThe Arab revolt in Palestine was unsuccessful, and its consequences affected the outcome of the 1948 Palestine war. It caused the British Mandate to give crucial support to pre-state Zionist militias like the Haganah, whereas on the Palestinian Arab side, the revolt forced the fleeing into exile of the main Palestinian Arab leader of the period, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Haj Amin al-Husseini and his associates.\n\nIn 1937, in a reaction to a half year revolt by Palestinian Arabs, the British Peel Commission proposed partition as a solution of the problems. The commission recommended that the Jews should get about twenty percent of Palestine, and that the 250,000 Palestinian Arabs living in this part should be transferred. According to the plan \"in the last resort\" the transfer of Arabs from the Jewish part would be compulsory. According to Masalha the transfer part of the plan had been suggested to the Peel commission by a Zionist lobby.\n\nThe Zionist leadership was inclined to accept the partition part of the plan under the condition of the transfer part. David Ben-Gurion accepted it 'on the basis of the assumption that after we build up a strong force following the establishment of the state, we will abolish the partition of the country and we will expand to the whole Land of Israel'\n\nAt the twentieth Zionist Congress, held in Zurich in August 1937, the plan was discussed and rejected on the ground that a larger part of Palestine should be assigned to them. The 'in the last resort' compulsory transfer was accepted as morally just by a majority although many doubted its feasibility. Partition however was not acceptable for many.\n\nThe immediately succeeding Woodhead Commission, called to \"examine the Peel Commission plan in detail and to recommend an actual partition plan\". The Woodhead Commission considered three different plans, one of which was based on the Peel plan. Reporting in 1938, the Commission rejected the Peel plan primarily on the grounds that it could not be implemented without a massive forced transfer of Arabs (an option that the British government had already ruled out). With dissent from some of its members, the Commission instead recommended a plan that would leave the Galilee under British mandate, but emphasised serious problems with it that included a lack of financial self-sufficiency of the proposed Arab State. The British Government accompanied the publication of the Woodhead Report by a statement of policy rejecting partition as impracticable due to \"political, administrative and financial difficulties\".\n\nThe White Paper of 1939 was a policy paper issued by the British government under Neville Chamberlain in response to the 1936-1939 Arab Revolt. (It was also known as the \"MacDonald White Paper\" after Malcolm MacDonald, the British Colonial Secretary who presided over its creation) \nThe paper called for the establishment of a Jewish national home in an independent Palestinian state within 10 years, rejecting the idea of the creation of a Jewish state and the idea of partitioning Palestine. It also limited Jewish immigration to 75,000 for 5 years, and ruled that further immigration was to be determined by the Arab majority (section II). Restrictions were put on the rights of Jews to buy land from Arabs (section III). Further, it promised that only with Palestinian support would Britain allow Jewish state. This greatly upset Zionists because of the increasing persecution of Jews in Europe at the onset of World War II, particularly in Germany. (See Persecution of Jews)\n\nThe White Paper was published as Cmd 6019. It was approved by the House of Commons on 23 May 1939 by 268 votes to 179.\n\nThe 1942 Zionist conference could not be held because of the war. Instead 600 Jewish leaders (not just Zionists) met in a hotel in the Biltmore Hotel in New York and adopted a statement known as the Biltmore Program. They agreed that when the war ended all Jewish organizations would fight to ensure free Jewish migration into Mandatory Palestine.\n\nThe Biltmore Program called for \"Palestine [to] be established as a Jewish Commonwealth\". David Ben-Gurion, who dominated the conference, formulated the Zionists' demand 'not as a Jewish state in Palestine but as Palestine as a Jewish state'. It was significant in that all US Jewish organizations were now united in agreement on the need for a Jewish state in Palestine.\n\nFrom the beginning of the forties the Zionist movement stopped paying attention to the 'Arab question'. The reason is that it was expected that any solution, whether a Jewish state in all of Palestine, partition, or an international protectorate, would have to be imposed on the Palestinian Arabs by force, because of their refusal to compromise. According to Teveth a war was 'made inevitable after the Biltmore Plan of 1942 declared Zionism's explicit aim to be a Jewish state, which the Arabs were determined to oppose by force.'\n\nAfter the Jaffa Riots, an organization of Jewish Legion veterans was created, Haganah (Defence) to defend Jewish communities against rioters.\n\nIn 1931, following the Revisionist Zionist departure from the Zionist Movement, a group of revisionists left Haganah and founded the Irgun Tzvai Leumi (National Military Organization), also known as Etzel.\n\nAt least 282 rebel leaders took part in the Arab Revolt, including four Christians. Rebel forces consisted of loosely organized bands known as \"fasa'il\" (sing: \"fasil\"). The leader of a \"fasil\" was known as a \"qa'id al-fasil\" (pl. \"quwwa'id al-fasa'il\"), which means \"band commander\". The Jewish press often referred to them as \"brigands\", while the British authorities and media called them \"bandits\", \"terrorists\", \"rebels\" or \"insurgents\", but never \"nationalists\". \"Ursabat\" (meaning \"gangs\") was another Arabic term used for the rebels, and it spawned the British soldiers' nickname for all rebels, which was \"Oozlebart\".\n\nAccording to historian Simon Anglim, the rebel groups were divided into general categories: \"mujahadeen\" and \"fedayeen\". The former were guerrillas who engaged in armed confrontations, while the latter committed acts of sabotage. According to later accounts of some surviving rebel leaders from the Galilee, the \"mujahideen\" maintained little coordination with the nominal hierarchy of the revolt. Most ambushes were the result of a local initiative undertaken by a \"qa'id\" or a group of \"quwwa'id\" from the same area.\n\nThe \"peace bands\" (\"fasa'il al-salam\") or \"Nashashibi units\" were made up of disaffected Arab peasants recruited by the British administration and the Nashashibis in late 1938 to battle against Arab rebels during the revolt. Despite their peasant origins the bands were representative mainly of the interests of landlords and rural notables. Some peace bands also sprang up in the Nablus area, on Mount Carmel (a stronghold of the Druze who largely opposed the rebellion after 1937), and around Nazareth without connection to the Nashashibi-Husayni power struggle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20846081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20846081", "title": "Internet Crime Complaint Center", "text": "Internet Crime Complaint Center\n\nThe mission of the Internet Crime Complaint Center, also known as IC3, is to provide the public with a reliable and convenient reporting mechanism to submit information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) concerning suspected Internet-facilitated criminal activity and to develop alliances with law enforcement and industry partners. Information is analyzed and disseminated for investigative and intelligence purposes to law enforcement and for public awareness. \n\nSince 2000, the IC3 has received complaints crossing the spectrum of cyber crime matters, to include online fraud in its many forms including intellectual property rights (IPR) matters, computer intrusions (hacking), economic espionage (theft of trade secrets), online extortion, international money laundering, identity theft, and a growing list of Internet facilitated crimes. It has become increasingly evident that, regardless of the label placed on a cyber crime matter, the potential for it to overlap with another referred matter is substantial. Therefore, the IC3, formerly known as the Internet Fraud Complaint Center (IFCC), was renamed in October 2003 to better reflect the broad character of such matters having an Internet, or cyber, nexus referred to the IC3, and to minimize the need for one to distinguish \"Internet Fraud\" from other potentially overlapping cyber crimes.\n\nIC3's purpose is to serve as a central hub to receive, develop, and refer criminal complaints regarding the rapidly expanding occurrences of Internet crime. The IC3 gives victims a convenient and easy-to-use reporting mechanism that alerts authorities of suspected criminal or civil violations on the Internet. IC3 develops leads and notifies law enforcement agencies at the federal, state, local and international level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4963292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4963292", "title": "Japanese government-issued dollar in Malaya and Borneo", "text": "Japanese government-issued dollar in Malaya and Borneo\n\nThe Japanese government-issued dollar was a form of currency issued for use within the Imperial Japan-occupied territories of Singapore, Malaya, North Borneo, Sarawak and Brunei between 1942 and 1945. The currency was also referred informally (and with more than a trace of contempt) as banana money (Malay: \"duit pisang\"), named as such because of the motifs of banana trees on 10 dollar banknotes. The Japanese dollar was in widespread use within the occupied territories where the previous currency became a scarcity. The currency were referred to as \"dollars\" and \"cents\" like its predecessors, the Straits dollar, Malayan dollar, Sarawak dollar and British North Borneo dollar.\n\nThe Japanese dollar was one of several forms of Japanese invasion money issued throughout the then newly expanded Empire of Japan. Similar currencies were issued in Burma (as the Japanese rupee), the Dutch East Indies (as the Japanese gulden/roepiah), the Philippines (as the Japanese peso) and various Melanesian and Polynesian territories (as the Japanese pound).\n\nFollowing the fall of Singapore into the hands of Imperial Japan on 15 February 1942, the Japanese introduced new currencies as a replacement of those previously in use in the occupied territories of Malaya, North Borneo, Sarawak and Brunei. The new currency in Malaya and Singapore were issued with the same value as the Malayan dollar, and first entered circulation in 1942. As with other currencies issued by Japan in occupied territories, local residents were forced to adopt this type of currency, while existing coins were allowed until a shortage of coins required the Japanese administration release issued notes for cents. Although new coins bearing the name \"Malaysia\" and dated under the Japanese calendar were planned by the Osaka Mint for the region, these never made it past the concept stage and only a few rare patterns exist.\n\nTo supply the authorities with money whenever they required it, they simply printed more notes. This resulted in hyperinflation and a severe depreciation in value of the banana note. Moreover, counterfeiting was rampant due to its lack of a serial number on many notes. Increasing inflation coupled with Allied disruption of Japan's economy forced the Japanese administration to issue banknotes of larger denominations and increase the amount of money in circulation. Sharp drops in the currency's value and increased price of goods frequently occurred following a Japanese defeat in battle abroad.\n\nAfter the surrender of Japan, the currency became entirely worthless, and to this day the Japanese government has refused to exchange these currencies. Some locals managed to escape poverty because they had hidden Straits dollars and Malayan dollars, the previous currencies before the Japanese invaded. Those with hidden stashes of the old dollars were thus able to use them the moment the British resumed control of Singapore and surrounding colonies, when they became valid again. A number of surviving banknotes were stamped as war souvenirs, while its use as printing paper for rudimentary calendars for 1946 was also recorded. When these notes became obsolete, punch holes were made in the notes to indicate they had been \"cancelled\" and stripped of redeemable value.\n\nThe present value of the currency as a collector's item remains mixed depending on their condition, the presence of serial numbers, the use of woven paper, and their use as specimens. Common notes lacking serial numbers are still worth below their printed value, while rarer versions are worth slightly over or several times their printed value. Notes stamped as war souvenirs are currently rare, while notes with 1946 calendar overprints fetch about RM3,000 (as of September 2006).\n\nTen dollar-sized leaflets reprinting the ten dollar note's obverse were also airdropped by British air forces during the Japanese occupation as a warning to the population on the potential worthlessness of the currency in the event of Japanese defeat. Fear among the population of possessing the leaflet lead to their rarity and present high value (at an estimated RM3,000 as of September 2006).\n\nThe currency – both dollars and cents – was released solely in the form of banknotes, as metals were considered essential to the war effort. The notes retain certain features that were common among preceding currencies, such as the use of the dollar and cent currency name, albeit without the use of their respective currency symbols ($ and ¢). However, the languages used on the notes were reduced to English, and Japanese at the lower edge of the notes. Each note bears different obverse and reverse designs but retains similar layouts. Intended for circulation in Malaya, Singapore, Brunei, Sarawak and North Borneo, the notes were marked with stamped block letters that begin with \"M\" for \"Malaya\".\n\nThe first series of notes were originally of lower denominations of 1, 5 and 10 dollars, issued in 1942. Each bear different obverse and reverse designs but retain similar layouts, with the obverse illustrating plantation crops. Additional 10 dollar notes were printed in 1944.\n\nIn September 1942, non-serialised currency notes were issued in denominations of 1, 5, 10 and 50 cents as a response to a shortage of old coins. The cent notes were of a simpler design, lacking plantation crops on the obverse; the 50 cent note is an exception. The cent notes are noticeably smaller than dollar notes.\n\nWorsened economic conditions in the following years forced the Japanese government to begin printing notes of larger denominations of 100 and 1,000 dollars in 1944. The 100 dollar notes were printed in two dramatically different versions, while the 1,000 dollar note were available in only one version. Illustration on the notes center more around images of rural life. The 100 and 1,000 dollar notes were the last new notes introduced before the surrender of Imperial Japan in August 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20626934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20626934", "title": "Komo language", "text": "Komo language\n\nKomo is a Nilo-Saharan language spoken by the Kwama (Komo) people of Ethiopia, Sudan and Southern Sudan. It is a member of the Koman languages. The language is also referred to as Madiin, Koma, South Koma, Central Koma, Gokwom and Hayahaya. Many individuals from Komo are multilingual because they are in close proximity to Mao, Kwama and Oromo speakers. Komo is closely related to Kwama, a language spoken by a group who live in the same region of Ethiopia and who also identify themselves as ethnically Komo. Some Komo and Kwama speakers recognize the distinction between the two languages and culture, whereas some people see it as one \"ethnolinguistic\" community. The 2007 Ethiopian census makes no mention of Kwama, and for this reason its estimate of 8,000 Komo speakers may be inaccurate. An older estimate from 1971 places the number of Komo speakers in Ethiopia at 1,500. The Komo language is greatly understudied; more information is being revealed as researchers are discovering more data about other languages within the Koman family.\n\nMany individuals from Komo are multilingual because they are in close proximity to Mao, Kwama, and Oromo speakers. \"Komo and Mao\" were ethnically and linguistically ambiguous terms until they became the official terms used in the Asosa zone in Benishangul Gummuz. Although Komo and Kwama are recognized under two different branches of Proto-Koman, there has been continuous debates and confusion over the ethnic identity of the two speech varieties.\n\nIn Ethiopia, most speakers are located in the Benishangul-Gumuz Region, specifically in the Mao-Komo special woreda however there are also some in the Gambela Region. In Sudan it can be found in the state of An Nil al Azraq and in South Sudan, the Upper Nile State. Other Koman Languages, which are all spoken along the borders of Ethiopia, Sudan and South Sudan, are Uduk, Opuo, and Gwama, as well as a possible extinct Koman language, Gule. However, there is some debate whether Gwama and Komo are two separate languages or two dialects of the same language, this confusion comes from the fact that Gwama may also be known as \"Kwama\" or the word may be the Gwama language word referring to the Komo language; while researchers do not agree on this point, they definitively agree that more research is needed on this subject.\n\nThe majority of research on Komo takes place in Ethiopia.\n\nTwo phonological surveys of Komo have been published, with some degree of disagreement between the two. The data below is from the more recent of the two, published in 2006.\n\nThe following table provides a summary of the consonants found in Komo.\n\nThe voiced alveolar implosive [ɗ] does not occur word finally in Komo, and the velar nasal [ŋ] does not occur word initially. There have been cases of a palatal nasal [ɲ] and an alveolar trill [r] occurring word medially, however these are not considered distinct phonemes but rather the result of phonological processes.\n\nConsonant gemination is common word medially in Komo, however is not phonologically significant and therefore optional. It is not allowed word initially or finally.\n\nConsonant clusters are only allowed word medially in Komo, and can include a maximum of two consonants.\n\nThe following table provides a summary of the phonemic vowels found in Komo.\n\nKomo displays a contrastive seven-vowel inventory /i, ɪ, ɛ, a, ɔ, u/ with Advanced Tongue Root [ATR] contrast in the high vowels and a typologically unusual and unattested ATR harmony system . The first process is anticipatory, a [+high, +ATR] vowel /i, u/ causes a preceding [-high, -ATR] vowel /ɛ, a, ɔ/ to assimilate to [+ATR] and surface as the allophones [e, ə, o] respectively. The second process is progressive and a [+high, -ATR] vowel /ɪ, ʊ/ causes a following [+high, +ATR] vowel to surface as [+ATR]. Vowel length is not phonologically significant in Komo.\n\nTone also plays an important role in Komo. There are 3 tone levels in Komo, low (L), medium (M) and high (H). Tone plays a role in verbal morphology. The majority of verbal roots in Komo are monosyllabic at one of the three tones, and when inflected with a single argument they display a pattern of tonal melody. Depending on the class of verb, the tone of the root verb may change depending on the tone of the morphemes that attach to it in relation to its class\n\nBoth codas and onsets are optional in Komo, therefore Komo allows the following syllable types:\n\nAn orthography for the Komo language has been conclusively constructed. It is based on the Latin alphabet.\n\nVowels: a, e, i, ɨ, o, u, ʉ\n\nConsonants: p, b, pp, m, w, t, d, tt, dd, ss, z, n, r, l, sh, y, k, g, kk, h\n\nIn the orthography, the double consonants denote the ejective or implosive sounds. The \"sh\" letter combination denotes the palatal fricative.\n\nThe following is an overview of a grammar sketch of Komo. It is organized in a way that follows the structure of the language.\n\nA noun is referred to as a \"zaga\". A majority of nouns in the Komo language do not inherently express number. Most nouns have either a general singular or plural meaning. For instance:\nThen there are certain nouns that are specifically either singular or plural:\nKomo nouns mainly distinguish gender in terms of masculine and feminine.\n\nThe number in the Komo language correlates to the gender of the noun. As shown in the chart, singular nouns are preceded by an \"a\". The plural form of these nouns are in some cases preceded by \"gu\".\n\nThe order of elements in a noun phrase goes as follows: \"noun--modifying expression--numeral--demonstrative.\" This order cannot be altered, especially because numerals should not come before modifying expressions. The following sentence gives an example of a complete noun phrase:\n\nAdjectives in the Komo language, as known as modifying expressions, are descriptive words that can be added to further define the noun. The adjectives describe particular qualities, such as the look, shape, sound, taste, or size, of the noun. In the Komo language, the adjectives appear after the noun they modify and agree with the gender and number of the noun. Below are a few examples of adjectives with the noun it modifies:\n\n\nPronouns are words or phrases that take the place of nouns. In the Komo language, there are eight different personal pronouns with four singular pronouns and four plural pronouns. The following chart displays the 8 personal pronouns:\nThe Komo language also uses possessive pronouns to show ownership. Typically in a sentence structure, the word \"ba\" comes between the possessed noun and possessor noun. This particular word indicates to the reader that a relationship between two nouns is being described. For example:\n\nIn the Komo language, a verb or \"kam yay\" is the foundation or key basis in forming a proper sentence. A verb describes an action, state, process, event, or quality. In sentences, the verb agrees with the subjects. For example, a subject that is in the 1st person singular needs to have the verb follow in the 1st person singular.\n\nThe following chart displays a verb with markers for all the persons:\n\nRegarding verb structure of the Komo language, all finite , or words that express action, must be structured alongside an Aspect-Directional (AD) suffix. The AD is followed by Bound Pronominal (BP) suffixes that classifies person, number, and gender\n\nThe following diagram displays a class diagram for segmental morphemes incorporating a Komo verb:\n\nThe Komo language relies on directional morphology. These directional morphemes attached to the verbs in a sentence structure are not typically used, but are common among Nilo-Saharan languages. These morphemes code a wide selection of functions beyond a direction of motion. AD morphemes help to code tense and direction of the motion like the words \"towards\" and \"away\". AD morphemes can also code the location as well.\n\n\nThe region of Western Ethiopia and Eastern Sudan hosts many ethnic and linguistic groups, many of which are closely related, therefore many sociological and linguistic studies of the region contradict one another. A large part of the confusion arises from ethnic identity versus linguistic identity, which may use the same words. Moreover, there is a disparity between self identification and outsider identification. Speakers of Komo self identify as ethnically Komo and are generally identified by others as ethnically Komo as well; however speakers of Gwama may self identify as either ethnically Komo or ethnically Mao, and are generally identified as ethnically Komo by the government. Gwama and Komo are related languages, having about 30% cognates with one another, however they are not mutually intelligible.\n\nThe Komo language is mentioned in the constitution of the Benishangul-Gumuz state of Ethiopia, and therefore it is actually warranted higher prestige than other surrounding languages. Moreover, because of this it is included as part of a multilingual education initiative in the region. Most education is in the region is in Amharic, the official language of the state and country, however the Komo ethnic group has the right to receive an education in Komo. Some writing workshops have been run in the Komo language, and an orthography has been conclusively decided, although many Komo speakers remain illiterate. Even though Komo seems to politically be more prestigious, it is generally a minority language in villages with a Gwama speaking majority and most Komo speakers are bilingual in Gwama. It is important to note that this situation appears to be reversed in Sudan, where Komo speakers outnumber Gwama speakers.\n\nMost Komo speakers are bilingual, because they live in close proximity to many other linguistic groups and, at least where research has been conducted in Ethiopia, there are no geographic pockets in which Komo is spoken exclusively. In general, the languages that Komo speakers may be bilingual in are: Gwama, Oromo, or Amharic, although the latter is only likely in the case of people who have achieved a decent education. Amharic and English are assigned very high prestige by Komo speakers, as well as speakers of other minority languages in the region. Women are more likely to be monolingual than men, and younger people are more likely to be bilingual. The Komo linguistic group has no qualms regarding intermarriage with people from other linguistic groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14077945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14077945", "title": "Kongsat", "text": "Kongsat\n\nThe Kongsat people are an ethnic group in Laos.\n\n\nThe Kongsat claim that they originated in the Yunnan Province of China. They are a Tai ethnic group.\n\nThe Kongsat have largely assimilated Lao and Lu customs.\n\nThe Kongsat are multilingual in Yang, Lao, Lue, Khmu, Pounyot.\n\nThe Kongsat practice animism.\n\n"}
{"id": "42560655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42560655", "title": "Lachik", "text": "Lachik\n\nLachik is a Kachin sub-tribe. It has its own language/dialect. The sub-tribes are Rawang, the Lisu, the Zaiwa, the Lashi/Lachik, the Lawngwaw and Jingpo. A group of seven sub-tribes call Kachin (Wunhpawng).\n\nThe majority of Lachik people live in northern Burma's Kachin State and bordering areas between Myanmar and China. \n\nLachik costumes differ from other Kachin sub-tribes and have specific meaning.\n"}
{"id": "27906163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27906163", "title": "List of NRO beneficiaries", "text": "List of NRO beneficiaries\n\nThe National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO) was an ordinance issued by the former President of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, on October 5, 2007. It granted amnesty to politicians, political workers and bureaucrats who were accused of corruption, embezzlement, money laundering, murder, and terrorism between January 1, 1986, and October 12, 1999, the time between two states of martial law in Pakistan. It was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Pakistan on December 16, 2009, throwing the country into a political crisis. All individual names were supposedly kept in secrecy but the government was forced to declassify all names after a successful intervention of the Supreme Court of Pakistan in 2009.\n\nThe Government of Pakistan issued a list of 8041 individuals who benefited from NRO including 34 politicians. The list includes Altaf Hussain, Farooq Sattar, Nusrat Bhutto and several other political figures.\n"}
{"id": "10102795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10102795", "title": "List of federal subjects of Russia by total fertility rate", "text": "List of federal subjects of Russia by total fertility rate\n\nThis is a list of values of total fertility rates by federal subjects of Russia.\n\nSource: Суммарный коэффициент рождаемости, единица\nTFR is usually high for non Slavic groups like Caucasians and Mongoloid people. But for some minorities like Balkars (Caucasian) and Karelians (Finnic) it is lower than the general population. Jews have the lowest TFR among the larger groups, while Nenets have the highest for the 25-29 and 30-35 age groups, which reflect recent births.\n\nOut of the dozens of groups listed here, only 6 have an above replacement fertility (2.06) for the 30-34 age group. They are Nenets (2.372), Chechen (2.228), Dargwa (2.118), Avar (2.111), Chukchee (2.081) and Ingush (2.072). For Jews, the TFR is less than half of that needed for replacement.\n\nFor the 30-34 group, the lowest TFR were for Jews (1.071), Russians (1.323), Balkars (1.389) and Belarusians (1.395). TFR for the 25-29 group gives the latest trends on birth rate. For that group, highest TFR were for the Nenets (1.749) and Chukchee (1.615), while the lowest were for Jews (0.791), Balkar (0.808), Osset (0.896) and Karachai (0.940).\n\nThe fertility for 25-29 group is not completed and so it is difficult to predict. But comparison with 1989 census shows huge drop in fertility in West Caucassia (Esp. Karachayevo Cherkissia, Adyghea and North Ossetia) and some parts of Arctic Russia (Murmansk, Komi, etc.).\n\nThe Fertility in East Caucassia is fairly stable, although decreasing. The figures given are from 2002 census and it should be noted that the lowest birth rate recorded in Russia was on 1999 and it increased thereafter. After 2002, it continued to increase and for the first half of 2007, the birth rate is 10.7 compared to 8.7 in 1999.\n\nSource: ; figures are for 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38541635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38541635", "title": "Lole language", "text": "Lole language\n\nLole and Ba'a are a Central Malayo-Polynesian language of Roti Island, off Timor, Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "2928161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2928161", "title": "Lusatian-New Marchian dialects", "text": "Lusatian-New Marchian dialects\n\nThe Lusatian-New Marchian dialects (German: \"Lausitzisch-Neumärkisch\") are East Central German (High German) dialects spoken in Berlin, central and southern Brandenburg, central and southern Saxony-Anhalt, and in northwestern and eastern Saxony. The name \"Lusatian-New Marchian\" derives from the terms Lusatia and March, meaning the dialects of Lusatia and the new dialects of the March of Brandenburg (not the dialects of the New March).\n\nBerlin and Brandenburg originally lay in the Low German language area. Through immigration to Berlin from (then) Central German-speaking regions like Silesia and Saxony, the city's Low German dialect has been strongly influenced by Central German, so that it evolved from a Low German into a Central German (High German) variant, which then spread from Berlin to the surrounding areas of Brandenburg.\n\nLow German dialects closely related to those which had been spoken in Berlin and central and southern Brandenburg, Brandenburgisch dialects, are still spoken in the Old March in Saxony-Anhalt (from where they once spread to the regions between Elbe and Oder), in the Uckermark and Prignitz regions, and in the southeast of Western Pomerania.\n\nThe Slavic languages of Lower and Upper Sorbian, which are spoken in Lusatia as well, are also sometimes referred to as Lusatian languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2660777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660777", "title": "M. L. Jaisimha", "text": "M. L. Jaisimha\n\nMotganhalli Laxminarsu Jaisimha (3 March 1939 – 6 July 1999) was an Indian Test cricketer.\n\nJaisimha was a right-handed batsman who was noted for his style on and off the field. He bowled medium pace, often opening the bowling for India, and off-breaks, and was a brilliant fielder. But it was the way he went about things that caught the eye. Partab Ramchand wrote after Jaisimha's death that \"his slim figure, which he maintained till his last day, the boyish good looks, the inimitable gait, the trademark silk shirt and scarf, the sleeves buttoned at the wrist or the collar turned up – all these attracted immediate attention.\" \"Indian Cricket\" called him a \"cultivated stylist\".\n\nJaisimha made his first-class debut at the age of 15, in the 1954–55 Ranji Trophy, scoring 90 for Hyderabad against Andhra Pradesh, and taking three wickets for 51 runs. After two indifferent seasons, in 1958–59 he cracked hundreds against Madras and Mysore, the premier teams in the South Zone. 20 wickets in Ranji matches in the same season found him a place in the side that toured England in 1959. \n\nHis Test debut at Lord's was disastrous, but his next two Tests won him notice. In the final Test against Australia in 1959–60 at Calcutta, he went in to bat towards the end of the first day and finished on 20 not out on the second day. He started his second innings just before stumps on the third day, batted throughout the fourth scoring only 59 runs, and was out on the final day for 74. This made him the first batsman to bat on all five days of a Test match. At Kanpur against Pakistan a year later, he batted through a whole day for just 54 runs. This innings, which lasted 505 minutes for 99 runs, ironically ended when he attempted a quick single to complete his hundred.\n\nMeanwhile, he converted himself into an opener. While there was a bit of competition for the Indian middle order, Pankaj Roy was coming to the end of his career as an opener. In that position, Jaisimha scored Test hundreds against England in 1961–62 and 1963–64, and 134 against Ceylon in 1964–65. In the 1963–64 series against England he made 444 runs. In 1964–65, he batted in the middle order for Hyderabad and hit 713 runs. But failures in the Test matches led to him being dropped.\n\nHe was not part of the original team that toured Australia in 1967–68, but injuries to Chandu Borde and B.S. Chandrasekhar and the loss of form of others resulted in Jaisimha being flown in. He went straight into the Third Test and scored 74 and 101, nearly pulling off an improbable win. He never again exceeded 25 in Test cricket. Curiously, each of his three hundreds came in the third Tests of the respective series. \n\nHis last series was the tour of West Indies in 1970–71. Captain Ajit Wadekar wrote later that he found Jaisimha's counsel invaluable. In his last innings at Port of Spain he stayed for an hour scoring 23 and helping Sunil Gavaskar save the match.\n\nHe led Hyderabad for 16 seasons and 76 matches. The Indian captain Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi often played under his leadership. \n\nJaisimha was a selector between 1977–78 and 1980–81, and managed the Indian tour to Sri Lanka in 1985–86. MCC made him a life member in 1978. He was also a TV commentator for some time. His son Vivek Jaisimha was a first-class cricketer.\n\nHis death was due to lung cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9599926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9599926", "title": "Maghdouché", "text": "Maghdouché\n\nMaghdouché (, , ) is a town in the South Governorate of Lebanon. It is located 50 km south of Beirut and 8 km southeast of Sidon. The village lies 3 km inland from the Mediterranean, occupying a hill with elevation ranging between 200 and 229 meters above sea level.\n\nMaghdouché has a permanent population of 8,000 inhabitants, the majority of whom are Melkite Greek Catholics and few Maronite Catholics. The population of the town doubles when the expatriates return to spend their summer vacations in their ancestral home. The village and some adjacent villages and others in the south, were previously full or partially owned by a Greek family that chose to reside and integrate in Lebanon since over a century. \n\nMaghdouche and adjacent Christian villages are currently facing political/religious complexes and challenge that mistakenly enforced building/zoning restrictions on Christian land owners, thinking that it would fight demographic changes, while it is actually pooring the community and limiting area development.\n\nMaghdouché's main industry is agriculture. The town produces grapes and citrus fruits, especially oranges. The town is famous for its best quality orange-blossom water. On April 2006, USAID funded a $195,000 cooperative of flower blossom and rose water production center, which will serve more than 950 farmers in Maghdouche area.\n\nThe name, Maghdouché, originates from the Syriac word, which means \"crop collectors.\" It is also derived from the Syriac word \"Kidsh\" and its derivatives (\"Kadisho\", \"Kadishat\", \"Makdosho\"). In Hebrew, it means \"holy\" or \"saintly.\" According to Christian belief, when Jesus came to Sidon, the Virgin Mary who accompanied him, waited for him at the top of the hill where Maghdouché is located today. She spent the night in a cave that came to be known as \"Mantara\", or the \"Awaiting.\" Emperor Constantine the Great responded to St. Hélène's request and transformed the cave into a sanctuary for the Virgin.\nHe erected a tower in honor of the Virgin. The tower collapsed during the earthquake of 550. Later, King Louis IX erected a watching tower in the same location. The Mantara cave was once again discovered accidentally by a shepherd in 1726. An icon of the Virgin was also discovered, and it was of Byzantine style, dating back to the 7th or to the 8th century. Since then, the cave has been transformed into a place of pilgrimage for all the Lebanese confessions. In 1860, the Greek Catholic Church became the owner, and transformed the cave into a sanctuary in 1880.\n\nAt the beginning of the sixties, under the auspices of Mgr Basile Khoury, renowned architect Varoujan Zaven designed and executed a beautiful hexagonal chapel topped by a 28-meter tower in a conical shape to support an 8.5-meter one-piece bronze statue of the Virgin Mary holding Jesus in her arms, of his own design as well, realized by Italian artist Pierrotti in Pietra Santa. The design and supervision of the project were both a donation on behalf of the architect. Our Lady of Mantara is considered the protectress of children, and many baptisms are celebrated at the sanctuary.\n\nErnest Renan visited Maghdouché during his mission to Lebanon, (described in Mission de Phénicie (1865-1874)) and he visited the cave \"Mogharet el-Magdoura\".\n\nIn 1875 Victor Guérin found it to be a village with 300 Greek Orthodox inhabitants. He also noted the cave, \"Merharet el-Makdoura\".\n\nOn November 22nd 1986, the armed conflict between Amal (Shi'a Muslim militias) and the PLO (The Palestine Liberation Organization) spread to Maghdouché. Ferocious combats took place in this Christian strategic town. Ultimately, it fell partially in the hands of the Palestinians and its residents were forced to flee from their homes. Maghdouché was destroyed. In 1990, after four years, the residents of Maghdouché returned to the ruins of their village and began rebuilding what was destroyed in the war.\n\nMaghdouché's most famous landmark is the tower of Our Lady of Mantara, which is a Marian shrine built (May 16, 1963), above the cave that is believed to have been the resting place of the Virgin Mary as she waited for Jesus while he preached in Sidon.\nThe tower height is 28 m, Statue height: 8.5 m, width: 3.5 m and the weight is 6 Tons\n\nA tribute to the town was sung by Lebanese singer Diana Haddad on her 2000 album Jarh AL Habib titled \"Maghdouche\" or \"Mishtaqit Laki Ya Maghdouche\" (\"I miss you Maghdouche\"). \nIn September 2009 Haddad performed the same song in honour of the village while participating in their annual music festival held in the town, the singer's ancestral home.\n\n"}
{"id": "96471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96471", "title": "Matariki", "text": "Matariki\n\nIn the Māori language Matariki is both the name of the Pleiades star cluster and also of the season of its first rising in late May or early June. This is a marker of the beginning of the new year. Different peoples celebrate Matariki at different times; some when Matariki rises in late May or early June while others observe it at the first full moon or first new moon following the rising of Matariki. In 2018, Matariki begins on 15 June.\n\n\"Matariki\" is a shortened version of \"Ngā mata o te ariki o Tāwhirimātea\", or \"the eyes of the god Tāwhirimātea\", but it is sometimes incorrectly translated as \"little eyes\". Similar words do occur in most Polynesian languages, deriving from Proto-Polynesian *\"mataliki\", meaning \"minute, small\"; the use of the term for the Pleiades constellation is also ancient and has been reconstructed to Eastern Oceanic.\n\nThe star cluster was important for navigation and timing the seasons. The first rising of the Pleiades and of Rigel (\"Puanga\" in northern Māori, \"Puaka\" in southern Māori) occurs just prior to sunrise in late May or early June. The actual time for the celebration of Matariki varies, some iwi (tribe or clan) celebrate it immediately, others wait until the rising of the next full moon, or the dawn of the next new moon—and others use the rising of Puanga/Rigel in a similar way.\n\nIn traditional times, Matariki was a season to celebrate and to prepare the ground for the coming year. Offerings of the produce of the land were made to the gods, including Rongo, god of cultivated food. This time of the year was also a good time to instruct young people in the lore of the land and the forest. In addition, certain birds and fish were especially easy to harvest at this time.\nThe name Matariki is used also for the central star in the cluster, with the surrounding stars named Tupu-ā-nuku, Tupu-ā-rangi, Waitī, Waitā, Waipunā-ā-rangi and Ururangi.\n\nIn 2001 The Māori Language Commission began a move to \"reclaim Matariki, or Aotearoa Pacific New Year, as an important focus for Māori language regeneration\". Since then it has increasingly become common practice for various institutions to celebrate Matariki in a range of ways and over the period of a week or month anywhere from early June to late August.\n\nWith the wider recognition, there have been proposals to make Matariki an official holiday in New Zealand—in particular former Māori Party MP Rahui Katene's private member's bill \"Te Ra o Matariki Bill/Matariki Day Bill\", drawn from the ballot in June 2009.\n\nThe Bill would have fixed the date of a public holiday using the new moon in June, however this was later changed to the new moon of the heliacal rising of Matariki when the bill was drawn a month later and set down for introduction into Parliament. Mayor of Waitakere City Bob Harvey supported the call to make Matariki a public holiday to replace Queen's Birthday, along with the Republican Movement of Aotearoa New Zealand, which found none of New Zealand's local authorities held celebrations for Queen's Birthday, but many held celebrations for Matariki. However, the Bill itself did not propose abolishing Queen's Birthday, and was voted down at its first reading.\n\nAs part of the National–Māori Party agreement subsequent to the New Zealand general election, 2011, both parties agreed to support \"[a] cultural heritage bill to recognise Matariki/Puanga, and to honour the peace-making heritage established at Parihaka.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1278669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1278669", "title": "Mental Models", "text": "Mental Models\n\nMental Models is a book published by Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., in 1983 . It was edited by Dedre Gentner and Albert L. Stevens, both employees of Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc. at the time. It appeared at about the same time as a book by the same name by Philip Johnson-Laird. According to the acknowledgment of the book, it resulted from a workshop on mental models held at the University of California, San Diego in October 1980, that was jointly sponsored by the Office of Naval Research and the Sloan Foundation.\n\n\nUpon release, \"Mental Models\" received reviews from journals such as \"American Anthropologist\". \"The American Journal of Psychology\" reviewed the work, stating that it would be of interest to \"those who are concerned with what is new in cognitive science\". \"Instructional Science\" also wrote a review, writing \"\"Mental Models\" succeeds as an introduction to the vigorous, multidisciplinary attack on the ethereal problems surrounding knowledge representation. Whether mental models will prove their mettle in the earthly settings of instructional applications remains an open question.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26256990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26256990", "title": "Miss Island Queen Pageant", "text": "Miss Island Queen Pageant\n\nMiss Island Queen is a fa'afafine pageant held annually in American Samoa, it is noted for being the longest standing pageant of its kind in the south pacific. It was first held in 1979 before undergoing a series of changes. No pageant was held in 1980 and 1982 as it endured shifts in ownership. It was canceled in 1986 due to a tropical cyclone and ceased again in 1999 and 2002 when it struggled with funding. In 1996 It was held simultaneously on the same evening as another fa'afafine pageant \"Empress of Samoa\". In 2008 the pageant coincided with the Festival of Pacific Arts and became the closing event of festivities. After undergoing extensive reestablishment in 2010 the pageant has since been held during Flag Day week and broadcast live on KVZK-2. It is now known as Miss SOFIAS and maintains yearly advocacy and charity programs.\n\nThe pageant began as a marketing show for Herb & Sia's motel a family owned business, in its heyday it was a staple for Polynesian revues and local musicians. A gathering of fa'afafines shepherd by educators Leroy Lutu and Vena Sele led to pioneering the first fully organized beauty pageant in 1981. It came to prominence in the late 1980s when organizers incorporated educational awareness, community service and charitable causes in both American Samoa and neighboring Apia, Samoa. Governor A. P. Lutali was the first territorial leader to officially support the pageant in 1987 in years that followed numerous local dignitaries and politicians became fixtures at the event. The pageant was hugely successful by 1990 it spawned a fa'afafine performance troupe.The troupe entertained across the islands at public ceremonies and private events popularizing a streak of song and dance routines among them the apartheid anthem Gimme Hope Jo'anna, music from the soundtrack of Sarafina! and Samba in the night by Daniel Rae Costello many selections were opening themes of past island queen pageants. Power struggles corrupted the pageant in the mid-90's resulting in the exploitation of fa'afafines in countless beauty pageants publicized for financial gain. Vena Sele and Leroy Lutu harbored creative differences and parted ways. Lutu went on to establish \"Empresses of Samoa\" and \"Mizz Corona\" pageants and Sele continued with Island Queens before leading \"Miss American Sevens\". American Sevens was originally operated under a netball association but at the height of its success became known as \"Seven Islands of American Samoa\".\n\nIn the 2000s Miss American Sevens and Miss Island Queens pageants dominated the territory. In 2010 American Sevens and Island Queens communally retired uniting to become S.O.F.I.A.S (Society of Fa’afafine in American Samoa). Organizers also preserved history honoring past winners under its retooled name. Three distinctive awards were awarded during the history of both pageants. In 2000 high chief Tiumalu Sia Scanlan was presented with a special award, in 2006 longtime serving member Rosie Moimoi was recognized by Island Queens and in 2005 founder Vena Sele was honored by the American Sevens for her legacy and service to both the fa'afafine community and her pioneering career. Sele was the first fa'afafine to earn a doctorate degree, for a short term Sele was president of American Samoa Community College becoming the highest ranking fa'afafine at the time. Sele retired in 2005 and in 2007 published her autobiography \"Memoirs of a Samoan, Catholic and Fa’afafine\". Sele is widely known to have inspired many fa'afafines to pursue education many of whom affectionately call her \"Mama\". Sele lives in Tacoma, WA. Leroy Lutu rose to great success with the Department of Education and retired in 2011. He was a popular local personality well known for his fashionable taste and socialite status. In 2008 both Sele and Lutu returned for the 25th anniversary of Miss Island Queens it was their last time together on stage. Lutu died in 2012.\n\n\n S.O.F.I.A.S. is established\n\n"}
{"id": "34901075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34901075", "title": "Monmouth Women's Festival", "text": "Monmouth Women's Festival\n\nMonmouth Women's Festival is an annual event in Monmouth, Wales, focusing on issues of interest to women. It is a not-for-profit cultural festival including workshops, talks and other events, and is organised by a small committee of volunteers.\n\nThe 2012 festival, the ninth in the event's history, took place between 2–18 March. Guest speakers included Julia Donaldson, Erin Pizzey and Jennie Bond.\n"}
{"id": "46173011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46173011", "title": "Ngok Lual Yak", "text": "Ngok Lual Yak\n\nNgok Lual Yak is an African sub-tribe, within the Jiëŋ (Dinka) group. They are mainly found in Malakal, South Sudan and inhabit the land along the confluences of the Nile and Sobat rivers. It is believed that the sub-tribe numbers about 95,000. They are devoted ethnics and believe in Deŋdit as their provider.\n\nIn the 17th century, it was believed that the People of NgokLand (Ngok Lual Yak) came to the shore of River Nile from the other side of the Lower Nile. Moving from the west to the east, they came to control the region of the Upper Nile River, pushing out the Funj and Jur, the Achol Eliot (Acholi?). In the 18th century, with the arrival of the Nuer, Lual Yak together with his age-group and Ngok at large was forced to evacuate some areas, like Gaak-yuom in Bor, Jokou in Gajaak, Pakoop in Ayuaal, Pabiech in Kongoor and Piny-Wuut.\n\nThey were pushed by the Nuer along the Sobat into the mouth of the Nile in Malakal. The Ngok Lual Yak became the owners of the land that runs from Malakal to Dome (\"Dömë\"), Dini and Abwong (\"Abɔ̈ŋ\") Cheng Nyankiir along the River Sobat into the Nile at Malakal.\n\nThe NgokLand people lived in two groups, namely Yom and Weny. Each group was further divided into sections and again into subsections. Ngok Lual Yak people owned NgokLand. They developed a skillful traditional culture and a close spiritual bond with the land. Early settlers were experts in hunting, fishing, farming, grazing and were skillful in spear and stick fighting. NgokLand ownership was by and for the people of Ngok Lual Yak.\n\nNgok Lual Yak as a group is an original Jieng Group. The Jieng began with the single family of Deng with his wife Abuk. One myth tells that Deng after his mythical death turned out to be an unreasonable phenomena, thus deriving the Jieng to worship Deng as commonly known today as Dengdit.\n\nAnother myth explains that Deng is regarded as the main source that generate water. This caused the crops to grow. Facts about the Dengdit are yet to be known, but is akin to the Biblical story of Adam and Eve. Deng and Abuk are the twin marital progenitors of the Jieng Origin. Deng and Abuk are where Ngok People came from. \n\nNgok Lual Yak as a tribe branched out of Jieng group and staked out its own historical line. Ngok Lual Yak converged into the following groups.\n\nTol \nYom \n\nPaan Man Gok \n\nPaan Man Weny\n\nNgok is part of the biggest chain of the other groups of Ngok like Ngok de Jook. Historically Ngok is an umbrella name for the different groups, including the NgokLand People of Ngok Lual Yak. Following are the other groups of Ngok.\n\nThe following Ngok groups are either historically related or partly blood-related groups. Out of these groups, some are commonly known as the Pan Ayuel Jeel Family.\n\n\n\n\n\nRuweng are counted as independent Groups due to their population expansion but emerged from the Ngok. \n\nNgokLand is an area on the Sobat river extending from Dome to Baliet and from Akoka to Renk on the eastern side of the White Nile including Melut and Paloc. More lived along the Sobat than along the Nile in Baliet. The civil wars of 1955 and 1983 affected their distribution. NgokLand sinclude Baliet, Dakjur (Adong), Tubuu, Gel Dhiaak, Abwong (\"Abɔ̈ŋ\"), Gel Achol and to Dome (\"Dömë\") up to Abwong Cheng Nyankiir. The land features many broad tree lines and a pastoral grassland within the central area. Many tributaries divide the land. Most live on the western bank of the river. Traditionally, most of the western bank was the domain of influential NgokLand settlers. It is also the most olden prestigious heritage of the group.\n\nThe exact Population number of NgokLand people of Ngok Lual Yak is not known, but was approximated at 80-95,000 in the 1950s. \n\nNgokLand seasons are different to the southern hemispheres'. February, March late April are the hottest months and is called the summer season. The rainy season is from mid May to the full month of October. And from August to earlier October is Autumn (not confirmed). Spring is from May to July (not confirmed). Winter is in early November, December to late January.\n\nThe government of South Sudan has ten states and its headquarter in Juba. The SPLA/M ruling party is a formal rebel group. The party emerged after a civil war of 21 years. The leader is Salva Kiir Mayaardit, a Jieng. The SPLA/M held the majority in all 10 states as well as in the National Government. Under Kii, the Ngok Lual Yak have one MP in the National Government and many ranked Generals within the SPLA. \n\nBefore November 2011, NgokLand people were represented at the state level of the Upper Nile. During the 2010 election, the representation of the NgokLand people dropped, leaving them no MP at the state level in Malakal. \n\nThe majority of people in NgokLand are Christians. Protestant Churches emerged in 1900. Among them is the Presbyterian Church of Sudan. Catholic and Trinity churches are present, plus non-believers who adhere to their traditional deeds.\n\nJieng have a dialect. The Ngok Lual Yak speak in Jieng dialect. In the 1930s, a written form of Jieng was developed following the arrival of Europeans. Characters including ŋ, NY, Y and NH were incorporated. Thoŋ de Jiëŋ later became unintelligible due poor teaching. Earlier, Jieng was spoken on a regular basis and taught to children.\n\nBefore South Sudan seceded, the Dinar was in use in NgokLand. After South Sudan currency became available, the Dinar was phased out and the pound became the currency. The pound was available in 100 SSPd, 50 SSPd, 25 SSPd, 20SSPd, 10SSPd, 5SSpd and 1SSPd units.\n\nA Zain company operates the phone network. Zain offered regional, national and international call services. \n\n"}
{"id": "19624066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19624066", "title": "Pincheira brothers", "text": "Pincheira brothers\n\nThe Pincheira brothers (Spanish: \"Hermanos Pincheira\") was an infamous royalist outlaw group in Chile and Argentina active from 1818 to 1832. The gang fought initially in the Chilean War of Independence as royalist guerrillas during the Guerra a muerte phase. After Vicente Benavides was executed and the royalist resistance collapsed they eventually became isolated as the only remaining royalist group in mainland Chile. Later they specialized on cattle raiding and robbery. With the surrender of Spanish controlled Chiloé Archipelago in 1826 they became the last remnants of royalist resistance in South America. The Pincheira brothers formed an alliance with the Boroanos tribe that had settled in Salinas Grandes and Sierra de la Ventana and attacked with them Carmen de Patagones and Fortaleza Protectora Argentina (today's Bahia Blanca).\n\nIn 1827 the colonel Jorge Beauchef, under the orders of Chilean general Manuel Bulnes crossed the Andes and defeated the Pincheira brothers in the battle of Epulafquén, but the outlaws slipped away. The gang was at large until 1832, when Jose Antonio Pincheira signed the surrender in the name of the king of Spain.\n"}
{"id": "39769862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39769862", "title": "Poles in Moldova", "text": "Poles in Moldova\n\nThe history of Poles in Moldova may be traced to the 14-16th centuries, when the Principality of Moldova was connected to Poland by a trade route and later it was several times briefly a vassal of the Kingdom of Poland. At these times there was no larger Polish communities in Moldavia. Only since 18th century there were several waves of political and economic emigration of Poles to Bessarabia, the land which constitutes the majority of modern Moldova. These include fugitive serfs, march to Bender of the part of the forces of the dethroned Stanisław Leszczyński, defeated insurgents of the Kościuszko Uprising. Partitions of Poland also contributed to this process.\n\nAccording to the 1989 Soviet Census, there were 4,739 Poles in the Moldavian SSR. The Moldovan Census of 2004 reported 2,383 Poles. The latter census did not include data collected in Transnistria, and the 2004 Census in Transnistria reported 2% of the population (about 1,100) to be Poles.\n\nSome publications of Polonia activists and Polish diplomats mention numbers of up to 20,000 of Poles in Moldova, — numbers significantly exceeding that of self-identified Poles in the census. Some authors include in their estimates people of Polish descent, while others assume people of Catholic faith (in a predominantly Eastern Orthodox country) are most probably of Polish descent; and this may include, e.g. Ukrainians with ties to Poland in their ancestry.\n\nAs a consequence of the Russian and Soviet policies towards Polish culture, only a small percentage of Poles in Moldova today speak Polish.\n\nAfter a brief period of liberal attitude towards Poles in the Soviet Union, the nationality had undergone repressions, dispersal, and assimilation, and its history remained largely a blank spot for a long time. Only since 1990s Polish researchers obtained a possibility to conduct research in this area.\n\nOn May 16–17, 1995 an international symposium was held about Poles in Moldova. Just before the conference a book \"Polacy w Mołdowie mówią o sobie\" was published, which is a collection of memoirs of people who lived through the Soviet times in Moldavian SSR or still live in Moldova. The materials of the conference were published under the title \"Polacy w Mołdawii\"\n\nIn the period of the collapse of the Soviet Union, in 1990 professor Tadeusz Malinowski established the Polish Cultural Association (Polskie Stowarzyszenie Kulturalne) in Kishinev. Unfortunately due to various difficulties it was not successful. However, on its base other Polish organizations were created: the Union of Poles in Moldova and the Society of Poles \"Revival\" (Towarzystwo Polaków \"Odrodzenie\"). Later many other Polish organizations were founded, in the opinion of J. Derlicki, too many for the small Polish population.\nAs of 2013, the following organizations are active:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440125", "title": "Post-Fordism", "text": "Post-Fordism\n\nPost-Fordism is the dominant system of economic production, consumption, and associated socio-economic phenomena in most industrialized countries since the late 20th century. It is contrasted with Fordism, the system formulated in Henry Ford's automotive factories, in which workers work on a production line, performing specialized tasks repetitively, and in which his workers could afford the products they built. Definitions of the nature and scope of post-Fordism vary considerably and are a matter of debate among scholars. Changes in the nature of the workforce include the shift of emphasis to new information technologies and the rise of the service and the white-collar worker.\n\nPost-Fordism is characterized by the following attributes:\n\nPost-Fordism can be applied in a wider context to describe a whole system of modern social processes. Because post-Fordism describes the world as it is today, various thinkers have different views of its form and implications. As the theory continues to evolve, it is commonly divided into three schools of thought: the Regulation School, Flexible Specialization, and Neo-Schumpeterianism.\n\nThe Regulation approach (also called the neo-Marxist or French Regulation School), was designed to address the paradox of how capitalism has both a tendency towards crisis, change and instability as well as an ability to stabilize institutions, rules and norms. The theory is based on two key concepts. \"Regimes of Accumulation\" refer to systems of production and consumption, such as Fordism and post-Fordism. \"Modes of Regulation\" refer to the written and unwritten laws of society which control the Regime of Accumulation and determine its form.\n\nAccording to Regulation theory, every Regime of Accumulation will reach a crisis point at which the Mode of Regulation will no longer support it, and society will be forced to find new rules and norms, forming a new Mode of Regulation. This will begin a new Regime of Accumulation, which will eventually reach a crisis, and so forth. Proponents of Regulation theory include Michel Aglietta, Robert Boyer, Bob Jessop, and Alain Lipietz.\n\nProponents of the flexible Specialization approach (also known as the neo-Smithian approach) to post-Fordism believe that fundamental changes in the international economy, especially in the early 1970s, forced firms to switch from mass production to a new tactic known as Flexible Specialization. Factors such as the oil shocks of 1973, increased competition from foreign markets (especially Southeast Asia) due to globalization, the end of the post-World War II boom, and increasing privatization made the old system of mass-producing identical, cheap goods through division of labor uncompetitive.\n\nInstead of producing generic goods, firms now found it more profitable to produce diverse product lines targeted at different groups of consumers, appealing to their sense of taste and fashion. Instead of investing huge amounts of money on the mass production of a single product, firms now needed to build intelligent systems of labor and machines that were flexible and could quickly respond to the whims of the market. The technology originally associated with flexible production was the numerical control technology, which was developed in the United States in the 1950s; however, the CNC, developed in Japan, later replaced it. The development of the computer was very important to the technology of flexible specialization. Not only could the computer change characteristics of the goods being produced, but it could also analyze data to order supplies and produce goods in accordance with current demand. These types of technology made adjustments simple and inexpensive, making smaller specialized production runs economically feasible. Flexibility and skill in the labor was also important. The workforce was now divided into a skill-flexible core and a time-flexible periphery. Flexibility and variety in the skills and knowledge of the core workers and the machines used for production allowed for the specialized production of goods. Modern just in time manufacturing is one example of a flexible approach to production.\n\nLikewise, the production structure began to change on the sector level. Instead of a single firm manning the assembly line from raw materials to finished product, the production process became fragmented as individual firms specialized on their areas of expertise. As evidence for this theory of specialization, proponents claim that Marshallian \"industrial districts,\" or clusters of integrated firms, have developed in places like Silicon Valley, Jutland, Småland, and several parts of Italy.\n\nThe Neo-Schumpeterian approach to post-Fordism is based upon the theory of Kondratiev waves (also known as long waves). The theory holds that a \"techno-economic paradigm\" (Perez) characterizes each long wave. Fordism was the techno-economic paradigm of the fourth Kondratiev wave, and post-Fordism is thus the techno-economic paradigm of the fifth, which is dominated by information and communication technology.\n\nNotable Neo-Schumpeterian thinkers comprise Carlota Perez and Christopher Freeman, as well as Michael Storper and Richard Walker.\n\nIn Italy, post-Fordism has been theorised by the long wave of workerism or autonomia. Major thinkers of this tendency include the Swiss-Italian economist , Antonio Negri, Paolo Virno, Carlo Vercellone, Maurizio Lazzarato. Marazzi's \"Capital and Language\" takes as its starting point the fact that the extreme volatility of financial markets is generally attributed to the discrepancy between the \"real economy\" (that of material goods produced and sold) and the more speculative monetary-financial economy. But this distinction has long ceased to apply in the post-Fordist New Economy, in which both spheres are structurally affected by language and communication. In \"Capital and Language\" Marazzi argues that the changes in financial markets and the transformation of labor into immaterial labor (that is, its reliance on abstract knowledge, general intellect, and social cooperation) are two sides of a new development paradigm: financialization through and thanks to the rise of the new economy.\n\nIn terms of the development of the 'technical and political class-composition', in the post-Fordist era the crisis explains at the same time 'high points of the capitalist development' and how new technological tools develop and work altogether (money form, linguistic conventions, capital and language). [Zanini, A. 2010, 'On the Philosophical Foundations of Italian Workerism: A Conceptual Approach', Historical Materialism, 18, 4: 39-63.]\n\nPost-Fordism brought on new ways of looking at consumption and production. The saturation of key markets brought on a turn against mass consumption and a pursuit of higher living standards. This shift brought a change in how the market was viewed from a production standpoint. Rather than being viewed as a mass market to be served by mass production, the consumers began to be viewed as different groups pursuing different goals who could be better served with small batches of specialized goods Mass markets became less important while markets for luxury, custom, or positional good became more significant. Production became less homogeneous and standardized and more diverse and differentiated as organizations and economies of scale were replaced with organizations and economies of scope.\n\nThe changes in production with the shift from Fordism to post-Fordism were accompanied by changes in the economy, politics, and prominent ideologies. In the economic realm, post-Fordism brought the decline of regulation and production by the nation-state and the rise of global markets and corporations. Mass marketing was replaced by flexible specialization, and organizations began to emphasize communication more than command. The workforce changed with an increase in internal marketing, franchising, and subcontracting and a rise in part-time, temp, self-employed, and home workers. Politically, class-based political parties declined and social movements based on region, gender, or race increased. Mass unions began to vanish and were instead replaced by localized plant-based bargaining. Cultural and ideological changes included the rise in individualist modes of thought and behavior and a culture of entrepreneurialism. Following the shift in production and acknowledging the need for more knowledge-based workers, education became less standardized and more specialized. Prominent ideologies that arose included fragmentation and pluralism in values, post-modern eclecticism, and populist approaches to culture.\n\nOne of the primary examples of specialized post-Fordist production took place in a region known as the Third Italy. The First Italy included the areas of large-scale mass production, such as Turin, Milan, and Genoa, and the Second Italy described the undeveloped South. The Third Italy, however, was where clusters of small firms and workshops developed in the 1970s and 1980s in the central and northeast regions of the country. Regions of the Third Italy included Tuscany, Umbria, Marche, Emilia-Romagna, Veneto, Friuli, and Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol. Each region specialized in a range of loosely related products and each workshop usually had five to fifty workers and often less than ten. The range of products in each region reflected the post-Fordist shift to economies of scope. Additionally, these workshops were known for producing high quality products and employing highly skilled, well-paid workers. The workshops were very design-oriented and multidisciplinary, involving collaboration between entrepreneurs, designers, engineers and workers.\n\nThere were several post-World War II changes in production in Japan that caused post-Fordist conditions to develop. First, there were changes to company structure, including the replacement of independent trade unions with pro-management, company-based unions; the development of a core of permanent male multi-skilled workers; and the development of a periphery of untrained temporary and part-time employees, who were mostly female. Second, after World War II, Japan was somewhat isolated because of import barriers and foreign investment restrictions, and as a result, Japan began to experiment with production techniques. Third, as imported technologies became more available, Japan began to replicate, absorb, and improve them, with many improvements deriving from modifications for local conditions. Fourth, Japan began to concentrate on the need for small-batch production and quick changeover of product lines to serve the demand for a wide range of products in a relatively small market. Because of informal price-fixing, competition was based not on price but rather on product differentiation. As a result, production became less standardized and more specialized, particularly across different companies. Fifth, Japan began to build long-term supply and subcontracting networks, which contrasted with the vertically integrated, Fordist American corporations. Sixth, because small and medium-size manufacturers produced a wide range of products, there was a need for affordable multipurpose equipment as opposed to the specialized, costly production machinery in Fordist industries in the United States. Technology for flexible production was significant in Japan and particularly necessary for smaller producers. The smaller producers also found it necessary to reduce costs. As a result, Japan became one of the main users of robots and CNC. Over time, these six changes in production in Japan were institutionalized.\n\nThe main criticism of post-Fordism asserts that post-Fordism mistakes the nature of the Fordist revolution and that Fordism was not in crisis, but was simply evolving and will continue to evolve. Other critics believe that post-Fordism does exist, but coexists with Fordism. The automobile industry has combined Fordist and post-Fordist strategies, using both mass production and flexible specialization. Ford introduced flexibility into mass production, so that Fordism could continue to evolve. Those who advocate post-Fordism, however, note that criticism that focuses primarily on flexible specialization ignores post-Fordist changes in other areas of life and that flexible specialization cannot be looked at alone when examining post-Fordism. Another criticism is that post-Fordism relies too heavily on the examples of the Third Italy and Japan. Some believe that Japan is neither Fordist nor post-Fordist and that vertical disintegration and mass production go hand in hand. Others argue that the new, smaller firms in Italy didn’t develop autonomously, but are a product of the vertical disintegration of the large Fordist firms who contracted lower value-added work to smaller enterprises. Other criticisms argue that flexible specialization is not happening on any great scale, and smaller firms have always existed alongside mass production. Another main criticism is that we are too much in the midst to judge whether or not there really is a new system of production.\n\nThe term \"post-Fordism\" is gradually giving way in the literature to a series of alternative terms such as the knowledge economy, cognitive capitalism, the cognitive-cultural economy and so on. This change of vocabulary is also associated with a number of important conceptual shifts (see sections above).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33517435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33517435", "title": "Projections of population growth", "text": "Projections of population growth\n\nProjections of population growth established in 2017 predict that the human population is likely to keep growing until 2100, reaching an estimated 8.6 billion in 2030, 9.8 billion in 2050 and 11.2 billion by 2100, while the 7 billion milestone was reached in 2011. As the demographic transition follows its course worldwide, the population will age significantly, with most countries outside Africa trending towards a rectangular age pyramid.\n\nThe world population is currently growing by approximately 83 million people each year. Growth rates are slowing to various extents within different populations with result of the overall population growth rate decreasing from 1.55% per year in 1995 to 1.25% in 2005, 1.18% in 2015 and 1.10% in 2017. The median estimate for future growth sees the world population reaching 8.6 billion in 2030, 9.8 billion in 2050 and 11.2 billion by 2100 assuming a continuing decrease in average fertility rate from 2.5 births per woman in 2010–2015 to 2.2 in 2045–2050 and to 2.0 in 2095–2100, according to the medium-variant projection. With longevity trending towards uniform and stable values worldwide, the main driver of future population growth is the evolution of the fertility rate.\n\nWhile most scenarios still predict continued growth into the 22nd century, there is a roughly 27% chance that the total population could stabilize or begin to fall before 2100. Longer-term speculative scenarios over the next two centuries can predict anything between runaway growth to radical decline (36.4 billion or 2.3 billion people in 2300), with the median projection showing a slight decrease followed by a stabilization around 9 billion people.\n\nBy 2070, the bulk of the world's population growth is predicted to take place in Africa: of the additional 2.4 billion people projected between 2015 and 2050, 1.3 billion will be added in Africa, 0.9 billion in Asia and only 0.2 billion in the rest of the world. Africa's share of global population is projected to grow from 16% in 2015 to 25% in 2050 and 39% by 2100, while the share of Asia will fall from 60% in 2015 to 54% in 2050 and 44% in 2100. The strong growth of the African population will happen regardless of the rate of decrease of fertility, because of the exceptional proportion of young people already living today. For example, the UN projects that the population of Nigeria will surpass that of the United States by 2050. The population of the more developed regions is slated to remain mostly unchanged, at 1.2 billion, as international migrations from high-growth regions compensate the fertility deficit of richer countries.\n\nFrom 2017 to 2050, nine countries are (\"in most country population is very low but based on growth\") expected to account for half of the world's projected population increase: India, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Pakistan, Ethiopia, Tanzania, the United States, Uganda, and Indonesia, listed according to the expected size of their contribution to that projected population growth.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2015, the average world fertility was 2.5 children per woman, about half the level in 1950–1955 (5 children per woman). In the medium variant, global fertility is projected to decline further to 2.2 in 2045 to 2050 and to 2.0 in 2095-2100.\n\nGlobal life expectancy at birth, which is estimated to have risen from 46 years in 1950–1955 to 65 years in 2000–2005, is expected to keep rising to reach 75 years in 2045–2050. In the more developed regions, the projected increase is from 75 years today to 82 years by mid-century. Among the least developed countries, where life expectancy today is just under 50 years, it is expected to be 66 years in 2045–2050. The population of 31 countries or areas, including Ukraine, Romania, Japan and most of the successor states of the Soviet Union, is expected to be lower in 2050 than in 2005.\n\nAccording to the United Nations, during 2005–2050 the net number of international migrants to more developed regions is projected to be 98 million. Because deaths are projected to exceed births in the more developed regions by 73 million during 2005–2050, population growth in those regions will largely be due to international migration. In 2000–2005, net migration in 28 countries either prevented population decline or doubled at least the contribution of natural increase (births minus deaths) to population growth. These countries include Austria, Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Portugal, Qatar, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.\n\nBy 2050 (medium variant), India will have 1.73 billion people, China 1.46 billion, Nigeria 411 million, United States 398 million, Indonesia 327 million, Pakistan 309 million, Bangladesh 265.8 million, Brazil 232 million, Democratic Republic of Congo 195.3 million, Ethiopia 188.5 million, Mexico 164 million, Philippines 157.1 million, Egypt 142 million, Russia 133 million, Tanzania 129.4 million, Vietnam 112.8 million, Japan 107 million, Uganda 101 million, Turkey 96 million, Kenya 95.5 million, Iran 93.5 million, Sudan 81 million, Germany 78 million and the United Kingdom and France 75 million.\n\nThe median scenario of the UN 2017 world population prospects predicts the following populations per continent in 2050 (compared to population in 2000), in billions:\nWalter Greiling projected in the 1950s that world population would reach a peak of about nine billion, in the 21st century, and then stop growing after a readjustment of the Third World and a sanitation of the tropics. \n\nEstimates published in the 2000s tended to predict that the population of Earth will stop increasing around 2070;\nIn a 2004 long-term prospective report, the United Nations Population Division projected the world population to peak at 9.22 billion in 2075. After reaching this maximum, it would decline slightly and then resume a slow increase, reaching a level of 8.97 billion by 2300, about the same as the projected 2050 figure. \n\nThis prediction was revised in the 2010s, to the effect that no maximum will likely be reached in the 21st century. \nThe main reason for the revision was that the ongoing rapid population growth in Africa had been underestimated.\nA 2014 paper by demographers from several universities and the United Nations Population Division forecast that the world's population will reach about 10.9 billion in 2100 and continue growing thereafter.\nThe UN as of 2017 predicts a decline of global population growth rate from +1.0% in 2020 to +0.5% in 2050 and to +0.1% in 2100.\n\nJørgen Randers, one of the authors of the seminal 1972 long-term simulations in \"The Limits to Growth\", offered an alternative scenario in a 2012 book, arguing that traditional projections insufficiently take into account the downward impact of global urbanization on fertility. Randers' \"most likely scenario\" predicts a peak in the world population in the early 2040s at about 8.1 billion people, followed by decline.\n\nThese projected growth patterns depend on assumptions about vital rates. Total fertility is assumed to continue to decline, at varying paces depending on circumstances in individual countries, to a below-replacement level of 1.85 children per woman by mid century. Countries already at this level or below, and other countries when they reach it, will eventually return to replacement over a period of a century and stay at replacement going forward. All countries are projected to have reached replacement fertility by 2175.\n\nSome of the authors of the 2004 UN report say that life expectancy is assumed to rise slowly and continuously. The projections in the report assume this with no upper limit, though at a slowing pace depending on circumstances in individual countries. By 2100, the report assumed life expectancy to be from 66 to 97 years, and by 2300 from 87 to 106 years, depending on the country. Based on that assumption, they said that rising life expectancy will produce small but continuing population growth by the end of the projections, ranging from 0.03 to 0.07 percent annually. The hypothetical feasibility (and wide availability) of life extension by technological means would further exacerbate the overpopulation problem.\n\nThe UN Population Division has calculated the future population of the world's countries, based on current demographic trends. The 2015 study projects the world population in 2030 to be 8.5 billion people, with the following estimates for the top 10 countries:\n\nProjections for after 2050 have usually assumed that fertility rates will have declined by then and the population will be stable or will decrease. However, a study in 2014 found that fertility rates in Africa have leveled off at around 4.6 instead of continuing to decline, and that consequently world population may be as high as 12 billion by 2100. Reasons for the continuing high birth rate include better survival rates with respect to HIV, and contraception shortage. Another study, on the other hand, concludes that education of women will lead to low fertility rates even in Africa. Evolutionary biology also suggests the demographic transition may reverse itself; in addition, recent evidence suggests birth rates may be rising in the 21st century in the developed world.\n\nUN projections published in 2017 estimate the world population in 2100 to be 11.2 billion.\n\nLarge urban areas are hubs of economic development and innovation, with larger cities underpinning regional economies and local and global sustainability initiatives. Currently, 757 million humans live in the 101 largest cities; these cities are home to 11% of the world’s population. By the end of the century, the world population is projected to grow, with estimates ranging from 6.9 billion to 13.1 billion; the percentage of people living in the 101 largest cities is estimated to be 15% to 23%.\n\nThe following 101 cities with the largest population projections for the years 2025, 2050, 2075, and 2100 are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "4652135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652135", "title": "Sanjrani", "text": "Sanjrani\n\nThe Sanjrani () are a Baloch tribe of Rind origin.\n"}
{"id": "18373301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18373301", "title": "Seasoning (colonialism)", "text": "Seasoning (colonialism)\n\nSeasoning, or The Seasoning, is the term applied to the period of adjustment that was undertaken by African slaves and European immigrants following their first attack of tropical disease, during the colonization of the Americas. Malaria was the chief adversary of colonists and slaves. Death rates dramatically differed between regions in the Americas. Those who survived were known as Seasoned, and for slaves this would command a higher price.\n"}
{"id": "11786593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11786593", "title": "Soviet deportations from Estonia", "text": "Soviet deportations from Estonia\n\nSoviet deportations from Estonia were a series of mass deportations by the Soviet Union from Estonia in 1941 and 1945–1951.\n\nThe two largest waves of deportations occurred in June 1941 and March 1949 simultaneously in all three Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania). The deportations targeted various categories of anti-Soviet elements and \"enemies of the people\": nationalists (i.e. political elite, military officers, policemen of independent Estonia), bandits (i.e. Forest Brothers), kulaks, and others. There were deportations based on nationality (Germans in 1945 and Ingrian Finns in 1947–1950) and religion (Jehovah's Witnesses in 1951). Estonians residing in the Leningrad Oblast had already been subjected to deportation since 1935.\n\nPeople were deported to remote areas of the Soviet Union, predominantly to Siberia and northern Kazakhstan, by means of railroad cattle cars. Entire families, including children and the elderly, were deported without trial or prior announcement. Of March 1949 deportees, over 70% of people were women and children under the age of 16.\n\nThe Estonian Internal Security Service has brought to justice several past organizars of these events. The deportations have been repeatedly declared to constitute a crime against humanity by the Parliament of Estonia and acknowledged as such by the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn Estonia, as well as in other territories annexed by the Soviet Union in 1939–40, the first large-scale deportation of ordinary citizens was carried out by the local operational headquarters of the NKGB of the Estonian SSR under Boris Kumm (chairman), Andres Murro, Aleksei Shkurin, Veniamin Gulst, and Rudolf James, according to the top secret joint decree No 1299-526ss \"Directive on the Deportation of the Socially Alien Element from the Baltic Republics, Western Ukraine, Western Belarus and Moldavia'\" by the Central Committee of the All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks) and the Council of People's Commissars of the Soviet Union of 14 May 1941. The deportation procedure was established by the Serov Instructions.\n\nThe first repressions in Estonia affected Estonia's national elite. On 17 July 1940, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces Johan Laidoner (died 1953, Vladimir prison) and his family, and on 30 July 1940, President Konstantin Päts (died 1956, Kalinin Oblast) and his family were deported to Penza and Ufa, respectively. In 1941 they were arrested. The country political and military leadership was deported almost entirely, including 10 of 11 ministers and 68 of 120 members of parliament.\n\nOn 14 June 1941, and the following two days, 9,254 to 10,861 people, mostly urban residents, of them over 5,000 women and over 2,500 children under 16, 439 Jews (more than 10% of the Estonian Jewish population) were deported, mostly to Kirov Oblast, Novosibirsk Oblast or prisons. Three hundred were shot.\n\nOnly 4,331 persons returned to Estonia. 11,102 people were to be deported from Estonia according to the order of 13 June but some managed to escape. Identical deportations were carried out in Latvia and Lithuania at the same time. A few weeks later, approximately 1,000 people were arrested on Saaremaa for deportation, but this was interrupted as Nazi Germany launched a large-scale invasion of the Soviet Union and a considerable part of the prisoners were freed by the advancing German forces.\n\nThe first wave of deportation has always been well documented, as many witnesses were subsequently able to flee abroad during the Second World War. Deportations after 1944 were, however, much harder to document.\n\nIn July 1941 Estonia was conquered by Nazi Germany, who were forced out by advancing Soviet troops in 1944. As soon as the Soviets had returned the deportations resumed. In August 1945, 407 persons, most of them of German descent, were transferred from Estonia to Perm Oblast. 18 families (51 persons) were transferred to Tyumen Oblast in October (51 persons), 37 families (87 persons) in November and other 37 families (91 persons) in December 1945 as \"Traitors\".\n\nDuring the collectivization period in the Baltic republics, on 29 January 1949, the Council of Ministers issued top secret decree No. 390–138ss, which obligated the Ministry for State Security (MGB) to exile the kulaks and the people's enemies from the three Baltic Republics forever.\n\nIn the early morning of 25 March 1949, the second major wave of deportation from the Baltic Republics, operation \"Priboi\", carried out by MGB began, which was planned to affect 30,000 in Estonia, including peasants. Lieutenant General Pyotr Burmak, commander of the MGB Internal Troops, was in generally charge for the operation. In Estonia the deportations were coordinated by Boris Kumm, Minister of Security of the Estonian SSR, and Major General Ivan Yermolin, MGB representative to Estonia. Over 8,000 managed to escape, but 20,722 (7,500 families, over 2.5 percent of the Estonian population, half of them women, over 6,000 children under the age of 16, and 4,300 men) were sent to Siberia during three days. Slightly more than 10 percent were men of working age. The deported included disabled people, pregnant women, newborns and children separated from their parents. The youngest deportee was one-day-old Virve Eliste from Hiiumaa island, who died a year later in Siberia; the oldest was 95-year-old Maria Raagel. Nine trainloads of people were directed to Novosibirsk Oblast, six to Krasnoyarsk Krai, two to Omsk Oblast, and two to Irkutsk Oblast.\n\nMany perished, most have never returned home. This second wave of the large-scale deportations was aimed to facilitate collectivization, which was implemented with great difficulties in the Baltic republics. As a result, by the end of April 1949, half of the remaining individual farmers in Estonia had joined kolkhozes.\n\nFrom 1948–50, a number of Ingrian Finns were also deported from Estonian SSR. The last large-scale campaign of deportations from Estonia took place in 1951, when members of prohibited religious groups from the Baltic countries, Moldavia, Western Ukraine and Belarus were subject to forced resettlement.\n\nOutside the main waves, individuals and families were continually deported on smaller scale from the start of the first occupation in 1940 up to the Khrushchev Thaw of 1956 when de-Stalinisation led Soviet Union to switch its tactic of terror from mass repressions to individual repressions. The Soviet deportations only stopped for three years in 1941–1944 when Estonia was occupied by Nazi Germany (see Occupation of Estonia by Nazi Germany).\n\nEstonians' experience with the first year of Soviet occupation, which included the June deportation, led to two significant developments:\n\nOn July 27, 1950 diplomats-in-exile of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania appealed to the United States to support a United Nations investigation of \"genocidal mass deportations\" they said were being carried out in their countries by the Soviet Union.\n\nStalin's deportation of peoples was criticized in closed section of Nikita Khrushchev's 1956 Report to the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union as \"monstrous acts\" and \"rude violations of the basic Leninist principles of the nationality policy of the Soviet state.\"\n\nOn 14 November 1989, the Supreme Soviet of the USSR accepted declaration \"On the Recognition as Unlawful and Criminal The Repressive Acts Against Peoples Who Were Subjected to Forced Resettlement, and On Guaranteeing Their Rights\", in which it condemned Stalin's deportation of peoples as the terrific felony, guaranteed that such violations of human rights won't be repeated and promised to restore the rights of repressed Soviet peoples.\n\nIn 1995, after the re-establishment of Estonian independence, Riigikogu, the parliament of independent Estonia, declared the deportations officially a crime against humanity, and a few perpetrators of the 1949 deportations, former officers of MGB, stood trial and have been convicted under Article 61-1 § 1 of the Criminal Code since then. The BBC noted in April 2009 that Estonia's claims of genocide are not widely accepted.\n\n\nThe Russian Federation, the only legal successor state to the Soviet Union, has never recognized the deportations as a crime and has not paid any compensation. Moscow has criticized the Baltic prosecutions, calling them revenge, not justice, and complained about the criminals' age.\n\nIn March 2009, Memorial concluded that the deportations were a crime against humanity, but stopped short of declaring them genocide or war crimes. In the opinion of Memorial, interpretation of events in 1949 as genocide is not based upon international law and is unfounded.\n\nThe Estonian International Commission for Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity was established by President Lennart Meri, who himself was a survivor of the 1941 deportation, in October 1998 to investigate crimes against humanity committed in Estonia or against Estonian citizens during the Soviet and Nazi occupation. The commission held its first session in Tallinn in January 1999. Finnish diplomat Max Jakobson was appointed to chair the commission. For neutrality purposes, there are no Estonian citizens among its members.\n\nThe European Parliament issued a resolution condemning crimes against humanity committed by all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes on 2 April 2009. This includes the Soviet deportations from Estonia, which the European Court of Human Rights has held to constitute crimes against humanity. The Parliament called for the proclamation of 23 August as Europe-wide Remembrance Day for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216906", "title": "Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences", "text": "Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences\n\nThe Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (Swedish: \"Sveriges Lantbruksuniversitet\") (SLU) is a university in Sweden. Although its head office is located in Ultuna, Uppsala, the university has several campuses in different parts of Sweden, the other main facilities being Alnarp in Lomma Municipality, Skara, and Umeå. Unlike other state owned universities in Sweden, it is funded through the budget for the Ministry for Rural Affairs. The University was co-founder of the Euroleague for Life Sciences (ELLS) which was established in 2001.\n\nThe university has four faculties: Faculty of Landscape planning, Horticulture and Agricultural Sciences, Faculty of Natural Resources and Agriculture Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science and Faculty of Forest Sciences. SLU had in 2012 3080 full-time staff, 3935 full-time students, 714 research students and 241 professors.\n\nThe university was formed in 1977 by combining three existing separate colleges for veterinary medicine, forestry and agriculture, as well as some smaller units into one organisation in order to improve the efficiency by sharing resources between departments. At the same time, the Veterinary college and Forestry college were moved from Stockholm to Ultuna, which already was the main campus of the Agricultural college. The locations used by the two relocated colleges are today used by the Stockholm University.\n\nThese colleges had a long history as separate institutions. The Veterinary Institution in Skara was founded in 1775 and was headed by Peter Hernqvist, a student of both Carl von Linné and of Claude Bourgelat, who founded the first veterinary college in Lyon in 1762. From 1821 a new veterinary institution in Stockholm took over the training of veterinarians from Skara. The Institute of Forestry was founded in Stockholm in 1828 to provide higher education to those who had gone through practical forestry schools, and was made into a college 1915. An agricultural institute was founded in Ultuna in 1848 and in Alnarp in 1862, under the supervision of the Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture, founded in 1813. These institutes, and the experimental activities conducted by the Academy from 1814, were the basis of the Agricultural college, which was created in 1932.\n\nThe \"Journal of Forest Economics\" () is published by Elsevier in affiliation with the Department of Forest Economics. It was founded by Sören Wibe.\n\nIn the 2007 Academic Ranking of World Universities, SLU was ranked in 5-9 place in Sweden, 81-123 in Europe and 203-304 in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37064706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37064706", "title": "Timeline of same-sex marriage in the United States", "text": "Timeline of same-sex marriage in the United States\n\nThis page contains a timeline of significant events regarding same-sex marriage in the United States. On June 26, 2015, the landmark US Supreme Court decision in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" effectively ended restrictions on same-sex marriage in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44524019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44524019", "title": "Ursula Koch", "text": "Ursula Koch\n\nUrsula Koch (1 July 1941 in Zürich, citizen of Zürich) is a former Swiss politician, and was the first women president of the Social Democratic Party of Switzerland (SP).\n\nBorn and raised in Zürich, Ursula Koch attended \"Sekundarschule\" in the municipality of Stäfa on \"Zürichsee\" lake shore. Thereafter she worked as a domestic helper in Lausanne, the so-called \"Welschlandjahr\" which at that time usually teenage women absolved in western Switzerland (\"Welschland\") to improve the knowledge of the French language. She graduated at the teacher training college in Zürich, and absolved in 1962 an exchange year at the University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon. In 1963 Ursula Koch started to study natural sciences at the University of Zürich and graduated at the Institute of Organic Chemistry, where she worked as a research assistant from 1970 to 1976. Ursula Koch promoted as \"Dr. phil. II\" in 1976.\n\nAs member of the Cantonal Council (\"Kantonsrat\"), the legislative assembly of the canton of Zürich, for the \"SP\" of the canton of Zürich, Ursula Koch refused, as dedicated woman's politician, the traditional male-oriented oath to the \"Vaterland\" and instead pledged allegiance on the \"Mutterland\" of office in 1979, but was re-elected until 1986.\n\nBeginning in 1986, Ursula Koch was voted as member of the Zürich City Councillor (\"Stadtrat\"), the executive board of the city of Zürich. She acted as superintendent of the engineering department (\"Bauamt II\" or \"Hochbaudepartment\"), i.e. Ursula Koch was responsible for all building construction works in Zürich until 1998. Ursula Koch opposed intensively the opening of the former industrial zones for the construction of more commerce buildings, in favor of more accommodation buildings at moderate prizes; therefore her statement \"City (of Zürich) is built\" (in Swiss-German: \"Die Stadt ist gebaut!\") on 16 March 1988 to the members of the SIA association, the parent organization of Swiss engineers and architects, became her best-known saying.\n\nAt the 1999 national Council elections, Ursula Koch reached with 122,846 votes the second best result in Switzerland. Despite the top result, the inner-party disputes not declined. As \"Nationalrätin\" for the SP party, Ursula Koch was voted by the citizens of the canton Zürich as member of the \"Nationalrat\", the Swiss lower parliament's house, from 6 December 1999 to 10 May 2000, when she resigned for reasons of health.\n\nOn 28 June 1997 Ursula Koch was elected by the members of the SP Switzerland at an extraordinary party congress in Thun, and won, despite lack of political experience at the national level, against Andrea Hämmerle, and succeeded the popular but controversy longyear SP president Peter Bodenmann. From 1997 to April 2000, Ursula Koch was the president of the \"SP\", even being the first women president of the national section of the Swiss social democratic party (SP).\n\nAfter her election as president of the party, Ursula Koch encountered massive rejection of their person, according to own information, and the conflict took place increasingly via media reaching its first peak in March 1998, when the general secretary Barbara Häring resigned. Party colleagues of the so-called \"Bodenmann-Clan\" (named after the previous party president) criticized an increasing lack of concept and the absence of the SP in the Swiss political arena. The crisis culminated after a closed-door meeting of the SP executive board on 19 February 2000: the reconciliation within the party leadership did not materialise, and on 15 April Ursula Koch retired by the party leadership and from the parliament due to health reasons.\n\nAs president of the political party \"SP\", and therefore member of the so-called \"Elefantenrunde\" – meaning the presidents of the five most 'important' political parties in Switzerland – Ursula Koch participated at the first live stream broadcast from the Federal Palace of Switzerland (\"Bundeshaus\") in late 1999.\n\nSince 2000, she is no more charged in a political office, and in November 2000 Ursula Koch married her long-time life partner.\n\n"}
{"id": "8607586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8607586", "title": "Wolofal script", "text": "Wolofal script\n\nWolofal is a derivation of the Arabic script for writing the Wolof language. It is basically the name of a West African Ajami script as used for that language.\n\nWolofal was the first script for writing Wolof language. Although the Latin alphabet is the official script of the language in today's Senegal, Wolofal is still used by many people as a symbol of Islamic Wolof culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "40574531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40574531", "title": "Women in Medieval Scotland", "text": "Women in Medieval Scotland\n\nWomen in Medieval Scotland includes all aspects of the lives and status of women between the departure of the Romans from Northern Britain in the fifth century to the introduction of the Renaissance and Reformation in the early sixteenth century. Medieval Scotland was a patriarchal society, but how exactly patriarchy worked in practice is difficult to discern. A large proportion of the women for whom biographical details survive were members of the royal houses of Scotland. Some of these became important figures. There was only one reigning Scottish Queen in this period, the uncrowned and short-lived Margaret, Maid of Norway (r. 1286–90).\n\nGirls of noble families were taught in nunneries and by the end of the fifteenth century Edinburgh also had schools for girls, sometimes described as \"sewing schools\". Private tuition in the families of lords and wealthy burghers may have extended to women, but for most women educational opportunities remained extremely limited. Despite this there is evidence of female Gaelic poets. By the late Medieval era, Lowland society was probably part of the north-west European marriage model, of life-cycle service, with many young people, both male and female, leaving home to become domestic and agricultural servants, followed by relatively late marriage. Women retained their original surname at marriage and, while many girls from the social elite married in their teens, by the end of the period most in the Lowlands only married after a period of life-cycle service, in their twenties. There was no divorce, but separation from bed and board was allowed in exceptional circumstances.\n\nIn the burghs there were probably high proportions of poor households headed by widows, who survived on casual earnings and the profits from selling foodstuffs or ale. Spinning was an expected part of the daily work of Medieval townswomen of all social classes. In crafts, women could sometimes be apprentices, but they could not join guilds in their own right. Scotland was relatively poorly supplied with nunneries, but prioresses were figures with considerable authority. There may have been small numbers of anchorites. The Virgin Mary, as the epitome of a wife and mother, was probably an important model for women. Some, usually wives, acting through relatives and husbands as benefactors or property owners connected with local altars and cults of devotion. New cults of devotion connected with Jesus and the Virgin Mary began to reach Scotland in the fifteenth century.\n\nMedieval Scotland was a patriarchal society, where authority was invested in men and in which women had a very limited legal status. Daughters were meant to be subservient to their fathers and wives to their husbands, with only widows able to own property and to represent themselves in law. How exactly patriarchy worked in practice is difficult to discern. Literary sources, particularly romantic poems, indicate that women were seen as passive subjects for love and inspiration for the great deeds of knights. They take a more active role in the historical epics like John Barbour's \"Bruce\" (c. 1375) and Blind Harry's \"Wallace\" (late 1470s). They were also seen as weaker creatures, morally and physically. Considerable emphasis was placed on their chastity, with \"whore\" being the most common form of abuse, and their conduct was constrained by the informal sanctions of community gossip, should they step outside of the accepted roles of wife or mother.\n\nA large proportion of the women for who biographical details survive for the Middle Ages, were members of the royal houses of Scotland, either as princesses or queen consorts. Some of these became important figures in the history of Scotland or gained a significant posthumous reputation. There was only one reigning Scottish Queen in this period, the uncrowned and short-lived Margaret, Maid of Norway (r. 1286–90). The first wife called \"queen\" in Scottish sources is the Anglo-Saxon and German princess Margaret, the wife of Malcolm III, which may have been a title and status negotiated by her relatives. She was a major political and religious figure within the kingdom, but her status was not automatically passed on to her successors, most of whom did not have the same prominence. Ermengarde de Beaumont, the wife of William I, acted as a mediator, judge in her husband's absence and is the first Scottish queen known to have had her own seal.\n\nGirls of noble families were taught in nunneries such as Elcho, Aberdour and Haddington. By the end of the fifteenth century Edinburgh also had schools for girls, sometimes described as \"sewing schools\", whose name probably indicates one of their major functions, although reading may also have been taught in these schools. The students were probably taught by lay women or nuns. There was also the development of private tuition in the families of lords and wealthy burghers, which may have extended to women, but for most women educational opportunities remained extremely limited. The major corpus of Medieval Scottish Gaelic poetry, \"The Book of the Dean of Lismore\" is notable for containing poetry by at least four women. These include Aithbhreac Nighean Coirceadail (f. 1460), who wrote a lament for her husband, the constable of Castle Sween.\n\nBy the late Medieval era, Lowland society was probably part of the north-west European marriage model, of life-cycle service and late marriage, usually in the mid-20s, delayed by the need to acquire the resources needed to be able to form a household. Unlike in England, where kinship was predominately cognatic (derived through both males and females), women retained their original surname at marriage and marriages were intended to create friendship between kin groups, rather than a new bond of kinship. Women could marry from the age of 12 (while for boys it was from 14) and, while many girls from the social elite married in their teens, by the end of the period most in the Lowlands only married after a period of life-cycle service, in their twenties. The extensive marriage bars for kinship meant that most noble marriages necessitated a papal dispensation, which could later be used as grounds for annulment if the marriage proved politically or personally inconvenient, although there was no divorce as such. Separation from bed and board was allowed in exceptional circumstances, usually adultery.\n\nIn Lowland rural society, as in England, many young people, both male and female, probably left home to become domestic and agricultural servants, as they can be seen doing in large numbers from the sixteenth century. Some women would have been engaged as wet nurses to the children of noble and wealthy Lowland families and the important role of midwife was also reserved for women. In the burghs there were probably high proportions of poor households headed by widows, who survived on casual earnings and the profits from selling foodstuffs or ale. Spinning was an expected part of the daily work of Medieval townswomen of all social classes. In crafts, women could sometimes be apprentices, but they could not join guilds in their own right. Some women worked and traded independently, hiring and training employees, which may have made them attractive as marriage partners.\n\nScotland was relatively poorly supplied with nunneries, with 30 identified for the period to 1300, compared with 150 for England, and very few in the Highlands. Prioresses like Anna MacLean (d. 1543) of Iona Nunnery, were figures with considerable authority: appointing lay officers, managing lands and finances as well as the lives of the nuns under them. There may have been small numbers of anchorites, who isolated themselves from society and devoted themselves to God, but they have left very few traces in the records. The Virgin Mary, as the epitome of a wife and mother, was probably an important model for women. There is evidence from late Medieval burghs like Perth, of women, usually wives, acting through relatives and husbands as benefactors or property owners connected with local altars and cults of devotion. In Perth there were several altars devoted to aspects of Marian worship in the Parish church of St. John, a chapel dedicated to St. Anne, the mother of Mary, or Lady's Chapel and the Loreto Chapel, dedicated to the Virgin's Holy House. Around the town several monasteries were also dedicated to the Virgin. Queen Margaret became important after her canonisation in 1250 and after the ceremonial transfer of her remains to Dunfermline Abbey, as one of the most revered national saints. New cults of devotion connected with Jesus and the Virgin Mary began to reach Scotland in the fifteenth century, including the Five Wounds, the Holy Blood and the Holy Name of Jesus. There were also new religious feasts, including celebrations of the Presentation, the Visitation and Mary of the Snows.\n\n"}
