{"id": "49580070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49580070", "title": "1980 murders of U.S. missionaries in El Salvador", "text": "1980 murders of U.S. missionaries in El Salvador\n\nOn December 2, 1980, four Catholic missionaries from the United States working in El Salvador were raped and murdered by five members of the El Salvador National Guard. They were Maryknoll Sisters Maura Clarke and Ita Ford, Ursuline Dorothy Kazel, and lay missionary Jean Donovan.\n\nThe Salvadoran Civil War began after a 1979 military coup brought the Revolutionary Government Junta to power. Catholic activists protested against the junta's oppression of impoverished citizens. Óscar Romero, the Archbishop of San Salvador, was assassinated on March 24, 1980, while performing Mass. The four murdered Americans were involved in an international humanitarian aid mission which was suspected by the régime of fomenting political opposition.\n\nKazel and Donovan, who were based in La Libertad, drove to El Salvador International Airport on the afternoon of December 2 to pick up two Maryknoll Sisters returning from a Maryknoll conference in Managua, Nicaragua. Kazel and Donovan were under surveillance by a National Guardsman at the time, who phoned his commander. Acting on orders from the commander, five National Guardsmen changed out of uniform and continued to stake out the airport. Donovan and Kazel returned to pick up Clarke and Ford, who were returning from the same conference, on a flight due at 7:00 pm, which landed at 9:11 pm. The five Guardsmen stopped the four women's vehicle after they left the airport. They were taken to a relatively isolated spot where they were beaten, raped and murdered by the soldiers.\n\nPeasants living nearby had seen the women's white van drive to an isolated spot at about 10 p.m. on December 2 and then heard machine gun fire followed by single shots, three hours after the flight was due. They saw five men flee the scene in the white van, with the lights on and the radio blaring. The van would be found later that night on fire at the side of the airport road. Later, their bodies were found knifed in a ditch.\n\nEarly the next morning, December 3, they found the bodies of the four women and were told by local authorities — a judge, three members of the National Guard, and two commanders — to bury them in a common grave in a nearby field. The peasants did so, but informed their parish priest and the news reached Óscar Romero's successor Arturo Rivera y Damas and the United States Ambassador to El Salvador, Robert White.\n\nTheir shallow grave was exhumed the next day, December 4, in front of 15 reporters, Sisters Alexander and Dorsey and several missioners, and Ambassador White. Donovan's body was the first exhumed; then Kazel's; then Clarke's; and last, that of Ita Ford. On December 5, a Mass of the Resurrection was said by Bishop Arturo Rivera y Damas; and on December 6, the bodies of Jean Donovan and Dorothy Kazel were flown out for burial. Donovan's body was returned to her parents in Sarasota, Florida, while Kazel's was taken back to her hometown of Cleveland, where she was buried in All Souls Cemetery in Chardon, Ohio. The bodies of the Maryknoll sisters, Clarke and Ford, were buried in Chalatenango, El Salvador, in keeping with Maryknoll practice.\n\nAs news of the murders was made public in the United States, public outrage forced the U.S. government to pressure the Salvadoran regime to investigate. U.S. President Jimmy Carter suspended aid to El Salvador, but he later reinstated it. The earliest investigations were condemned as whitewash attempts by the later ones, and in time, a Commission on the Truth for El Salvador was appointed by the United Nations to investigate who gave the orders, who knew about it, and who covered it up. Several low-level guardsman were convicted, and two generals were sued by the women's families in the U.S. federal courts for their command responsibility for the incident.\n\nUnlike President Carter, succeeding U.S. President Ronald Reagan favored the Salvadoran military regime; he authorized increased military aid and sent more U.S. military advisers to the country to aid the government in quelling the civil/guerrilla war. In \"El Salvador's Decade of Terror: Human Rights Since the Assassination of Archbishop Romero\", Human Rights Watch reports:\nIn 1984, four national guardsmen—Daniel Canales Ramirez, Carlos Joaquin Contreras Palacios, Francisco Orlando Contreras Recinos and Jose Roberto Moreno Canjura—were convicted of murdering the four women and were sentenced to 30 years in prison. Their superior, sub-sergeant Luis Antonio Colindres Aleman, was also convicted for the murders.\n\nAccording to the Maryknoll Sisters: The <nowiki>[1993]</nowiki> U.N.-sponsored Report of the Commission on the Truth for El Salvador concluded that the abductions were planned in advance and the men responsible had carried out the murders on orders from above. It further stated that the head of the National Guard and two officers assigned to investigate the case had concealed the facts to harm the judicial process. The murder of the women, along with attempts by the Salvadoran military and some American officials to cover it up, generated a grass-roots opposition in the U.S., as well as ignited intense debate over the Administration’s policy in El Salvador.\nIn 1984, the defendants were found guilty and sentenced to 30 years in prison. The Truth Commission noted that this was the first time in Salvadoran history that a judge had found a member of the military guilty of assassination. In 1998, three of the soldiers were released for good behavior. Two of the men remain in prison and have petitioned the Salvadoran government for pardons.\n\nThe head of the National Guard, General Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, went on to become Salvadoran Minister of Defense in the government of José Napoleón Duarte. In 1998, the four assassins confessed to abducting, raping and murdering the four churchwomen and claimed that they did so because Aleman had informed them that they had to act on orders from high-level military officers. Some were then released from prison after detailing how Vides and his cousin Col. Oscar Edgardo Casanova Vejar, the local military commander in Zacatecoluca, had planned and orchestrated the executions of the churchwomen. A 16-year legal battle to deport Vides Casanova soon commenced.\n\nIta Ford's brother, attorney William P. Ford, spent more than 25 years using the U.S. court system to try to obtain justice for his sister and the other three murdered women. He worked closely with Human Rights First (formerly the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights) on federal lawsuits to try to bring Salvadoran generals to answer for the murder of the women, and, in other cases, for the torture and murder of members of the Salvadoran poor. After their emigration to the U.S. state of Florida, Vides Casanova and his fellow general, José Guillermo García, were sued by the families of the four women in federal civil court. The case is styled \"Ford v. Garcia\". The defense won the case. On 24 February 2012, however, a Federal immigration judge cleared the way for the deportation of Vides Casanova after the General was held liable for various war crimes which occurred under his command. On March 11, 2015, the Board of Immigration Appeals dismissed General Vides Casanova's appeal. Vides Casanova was then deported back to El Salvador on April 8, 2015.\n\n\"Roses in December\" is a 1982 documentary the murders, focusing on Jean Donovan. This documentary won the Interfilm Award at the 1982 International Filmfestival Mannheim-Heidelberg.\n\nThe dramatization \"Choices of the Heart\" won the 1984 Humanitas Prize in the 90-minute television movie category, although it was criticized for lacking clarity about the political context of the women's killings. Clarke, Ford, Kazel and Donovan were played by Mary McCusker, Mari Gorman, Pamela Bellwood, and Melissa Gilbert respectively. Helen Hunt, Martin Sheen, and Mike Farrell co-starred.\n\nThe murders were also depicted in \"Salvador\", Oliver Stone's 1986 film about an American reporter trying to cover the overall conflict. In this film, actress Cynthia Gibb portrayed Cathy Moore, a character based on Jean Donovan. Moore is shown in several scenes interacting with the main character.\n\n\"Points of Arrival: a Jean Donovan journey\" is a 1996 play written by Paul Amandes, developed by and starring Lisa Wagner and her Still Point Theater Collective, supported by Call to Action.\n\nElizabeth Swados composed a musical play entitled \"Missionaries\" about the four churchwomen killed in El Salvador.\n\nFred Small mentions them in his 1983 song 'No More Vietnams'\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38692155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38692155", "title": "1990 Sabadell attack", "text": "1990 Sabadell attack\n\nThe Sabadell attack was a car bombing carried out by the armed Basque separatist group ETA in Sabadell, Catalonia, Spain on 8 December 1990.\n\nThe target was a convoy carrying eight members of the National Police force on the way to police a football game between Sabadell and Málaga CF. Six of the police officers were killed, with the other two injured. Several civilians were also injured in the attack, which was ETA's deadliest of 1990.\n\nIn the early 1990s, ETA had stepped up its attacks in Catalonia in an attempt to gain worldwide publicity and secure political concessions by threatening disruption to the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. Police had obtained documents revealing these plans in the week before the attack.\n\nTwo weeks earlier, on 23 November, ETA had attacked the Guardia Civil barracks in Sant Carles de la Ràpita in Catalonia, though no one had been injured.\n\nAt approximately 1345 on the day of the attack, ETA placed the car bomb on the junction of Josep Aparici and Ribot i Serra streets, where vehicles would normally have to slow down to pass. The car bomb, located some 500 metres from the main police station, was detonated remotely from the nearby Gran Via, the main thoroughfare in the town, from which there was easy access to the A7 motorway, allowing the perpetrators to escape. The bomb caused a large explosion, mostly destroying the second of the two vehicles of the police convoy and caused extensive damage to nearby buildings, with shrapnel found up to 400 metres away. Five of the eight police officers in that vehicle were killed instantly, with a sixth dying shortly afterwards. The other two policemen were seriously injured. A further eight passersby also sustained injuries in the attack.\n\nPolice sources attributed the attack to ETA's Barcelona Commando Unit. They immediately identified Joan Carles Monteagudo and Juan Félix Erezuma, the two suspected leaders of the cell, as participants in the attack. On 30 May 1991, the day after a bomb attack in Vic had killed nine people, Monteagudo and Erezuma were killed in a gunfight with police in Lliçà d'Amunt, near Barcelona.\n"}
{"id": "13134825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13134825", "title": "2007 Osama bin Laden video", "text": "2007 Osama bin Laden video\n\nThe 2007 Osama bin Laden video originally appeared in a banner ad on an Islamic militant website regularly used by al-Qaeda on September 6, 2007. The ad carried a picture of bin Laden and the logo of al-Qaeda's media production company As-Sahab. An accompanying translated message read: \"Soon, with the permission of God, a new visual tape, the Sheikh, the Lion, Osama bin Laden. May God protect him.\"\n\nThe timing of the video's release coincided with the 6th anniversary of the September 11 attacks on the United States. bin Laden's previous appearance in a video was in 2004.\n\nBy September 7, 2007, United States authorities had obtained a copy of the video, even though it hadn't been officially released. Soon after, the Reuters news agency released a 1-minute excerpt of the tape, which it had obtained from BNO News.\n\n\"Note: The following description was compiled after consideration of the video and transcript as hosted by The Counterterrorism Blog\"\n\nIn the video, bin Laden is seated at a table wearing a white robe, turban, and beige cloak. His beard is shorter than in his 2004 video and it's black, leading some to speculate that it had been dyed. The video's title \"The Solution\" appears in the top left corner of the video frame. The video running time is approximately 26 minutes.\n\nBin Laden addresses the \"People of America\" directly in the video, but he makes no direct threats to the United States. He criticizes perceived flaws in American society and US foreign policy, contrasting these with the perceived virtues of Islam. The September 11 attacks are mentioned several times, as is the Iraq War. The video concludes with a suggestion that Americans should convert to Islam.\n\nOther events and themes in the video include:\n\n\nIndividuals mentioned in the video include:\n\n\nHe suggests that the viewer read \"the European thinker who anticipated the fall of the Soviet Union\". Although not named, Bin Laden is believed to be referring to Emmanuel Todd and his book \"\".\n\nBin Laden suggests that notice should be taken of comments made by a US soldier serving in Iraq named Joshua:\n\nThe soldier's comments were made in an ABC News story dated July 16, 2007, and although Bin Laden attributes the remarks to Corporal Joshua Lake who appears in the story.\n\nSeveral peculiarities in the video raise questions regarding its authenticity:\n\n\nPresident George W. Bush speaking from the APEC Summit in Sydney, Australia:\n\nHomeland Security Advisor Frances Townsend speaking to Fox News Sunday:\n\nExpert on Islamic issues Sliman Abu Rahman (based in Amman, Jordan) speaking to Al Jazeera:\n\nFormer CIA analyst Michael Scheuer speaking to Wolf Blitzer, anchor of CNN's \"The Situation Room\":\n\nScheuer also provided a more detailed analysis at the Jamestown Foundation site.\n\nSecurity analyst M.J. Gohel of the Asia-Pacific Foundation speaking to the \"Washington Post\":\n\nOn September 11, 2007, a second video appeared, purportedly featuring a eulogy by Osama bin Laden for 9/11 hijacker Waleed al-Shehri. In the video, a voice identified as bin Laden's delivers a 14-minute introduction. The voice is heard over a still picture of bin Laden, dressed and groomed as he appears in the September 7, 2007 video. The 33-minute balance of the recording is a video will read by al-Shehri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29616776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29616776", "title": "Abby Leach", "text": "Abby Leach\n\nAbby Leach (1855–1918) was a Professor of Greek and Latin at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York from 1883 until her death.\n\nShe was one of the first female students at Harvard University, enrolling in a \"Plan for Private Collegiate Instruction of Women\" upon its establishment in 1879 at her behest. The \"Plan\" led to the later establishment of Radcliffe College. Because Harvard at that time did not grant degrees to women, Vassar College granted her bachelor's and master's degrees after they appointed her to the Vassar faculty.\n\nShe was a member of the Greek Conference of the Committee of Ten called by the National Education Association in 1894, the only female member of any conference of the Committee of Ten.\n\nIn 1899, she became the first female president of the American Philological Association. From 1899 to 1901, Leach was president of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae which later became the American Association of University Women.\n\n"}
{"id": "20646992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646992", "title": "Abel Hendy Jones Greenidge", "text": "Abel Hendy Jones Greenidge\n\nAbel Hendy Jones Greenidge (22 December 1865  – 11 March 1906) was a writer on ancient history and law.\n\nGreenidge was born on 22 December 1865 at Belle Farm Estate, Barbados, the second son of the Rev. Nathaniel Heath Greenidge, vicar of Boscobel Parish, St Peter and his wife Elizabeth Cragg Kellman. His father was for many years a headmaster of various schools (Parry School, St Michael’s Parochial School and Christ Church Foundation School) and enjoyed a high reputation as a teacher. \n\nHis brother, Samuel Wilberforce, won a Barbados Scholarship in 1882 and went up to St John’s College, Cambridge, was 25th wrangler in the Cambridge mathematical tripos of 1886 and the following year attained second-class honours in the Law Tripos. He was McMahon Law Student in 1888 and called to the Bar at Gray’s Inn in 1889 but died in 1890. \n\nThe Greenidge family trace their ancestry in Barbados to John of Greenwich, who left London on 2 May 1635 on the ship \"Alexander\". Within one generation the etymon, meaning \"Green Port\" or \"Trading Place\" (cf Norwich, Harwich and Ipswich in England) of the surname had assumed the distinctly West Indian orthographic format of Greenidge, while maintaining a very similar phenomic identity.\n\nAbel Hendy Jones was educated at Harrison College, Barbados, winning in 1884 the Barbados Scholarship (first established when Abel and his brother Samuel were at school, providing £175 per annum for four consecutive years) and in the same year (15 October) matriculating at Balliol College, Oxford. Elected to an exhibition the following year, he was placed in the first class, both in Classical Moderations in 1886 and in the final classical school in 1888. He graduated BA in the same year and proceeded MA in 1891 and D. Litt in 1904. On 5 December 1889 he was elected, after examination, fellow of Hertford College. There he became a lecturer in 1892 and tutor in 1902 and he retained these offices until his death in 1906. He was also lecturer in ancient history at Brasenose College from 1892 to 1905. He vacated his fellowship at Hertford on his marriage in 1895 and on 29 June 1905 was elected to an official fellowship at St John’s College. He examined in the final classical school in 1895-6-7-8.\n\nAbel Hendy Jones was married on 29 June 1895 to Edith Elizabeth, youngest daughter of William Lucy of Headington, Oxford, who owned the Lucy Ironworks, previously known as the Eagle Ironworks, in that town and they had two sons, John Waterman and Terence Lucy. It was Terence who introduced Evelyn Waugh to the Hypocrites Club while they were at Oxford University together and between John, Terence and Waugh, they staged the \"Scarlet Woman, An Ecclesiastical Melodrama\", which was an early cinematic production.\n\nHe died suddenly at his residence in Oxford of an affection of the heart on 11 March 1906 and was buried in Holywell Cemetery, Oxford. On 29 March 1907 a civil pension of £75 was granted to his widow \"in consideration of his services to the study of Roman Law and History\" but she too died on 9 July 1907, of a lonely heart.\n\nIn spite of his early death, Abel Hendy Jones was constantly employed in academic teaching and his literary works are noted for their quality and quantity. Shortly after graduating, he contributed many articles to a new edition of \"Smith’s Dictionary of Antiquities 1890/1\". He had graduated two years earlier, yet his prestige was such that he was invited to contribute to this authoritative work. His first book \"Infamia, its place in Roman Public and Private Law\" was published at Oxford in 1894. Infamia is the term for loss of civil honour, and Abel made an interesting contribution to the knowledge of Roman legal practice by demonstrating that its legal aspect was quite secondary to its moral and social significance. \n\nThere followed a \"Handbook of Greek Constitutional History\" (1896), in which he gave a narrative of the main lines of development of Greek Public Law, \"Roman Public Life\" (1901) in which he traced the growth of the Roman constitution and showed the political genius of Romans in dealing with all the problems of administration they had to face, and \"The Legal Procedure in Cicero’s Time\", Oxford (1901), a systematic and historical treatment of civil and criminal procedure, which was the most important of Abel Hendy Jones’ completed works. He also revised Sir William Smith’s \"History of Rome\" (1897), (down to the death of Justinian) of the \"Student’s Gibbon\" (1899). In 1903, in cooperation with Agnes Muriel Clay, he produced \"Sources of Roman History BC 133-70\" (Oxford), designed to prepare the way for a new History of Rome. In 1904, he contributed an historical introduction to the 4th edition of Poste’s \"Institutes of Gaius\".\n\nIn the same year, appeared the first volume of \"A History of Rome during the Later Republic and Early Principate\" covering the years 133 to 104 B.C. This work was designed to extend to the accession of Vespasian and to fill six volumes, indeed a \"magnum opus\", but no second volume (which was to end with the first consulship of Pompey and Crassus) was issued. The third volume was intended to be up to the death of Caesar, the fourth was to cover the Civil War and the rule of Augustus, while the fifth and sixth were to deal with the Emperors up to Vespasian. Much of Abel Hendy Jones’s most interesting work is to be found in scattered articles, more particularly in the \"Classical Review\". His merit as an historian lies in his \"accurate accumulation of detail, combined with critical insight and power of exposition which was not unmixed with occasional paradox\".\n\nAbel Hendy Jones was without doubt the greatest Classical scholar that the island of Barbados has ever produced, since Latin and Greek are no longer taught on the island, and has done more to give the island and the West Indies a position of honour in the world of scholarship and learning. \"The Times\" was moved to write a tribute: \"His death will be regarded as a great loss to classical scholarship; in his own department of ancient history he was an acknowledged authority, and what he had already given to the world gave further promise of the future.\" \"The Daily Telegraph\", not to be outdone, declared that \"Abel Greenidge had tapped sources of Roman Law that English scholars did not even know about\". It can be said that Abel Greenidge was fully qualified to carry on where the great German scholar Mommsen had left off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56492411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56492411", "title": "Ahmarian", "text": "Ahmarian\n\nAhmarian culture was a Paleolithic archeological industry in Levant dated at 46,000-42,000 BP and thought to be related to Levantine Emiran and younger European Aurignacian cultures. Ahmarian is considered to be the likely source of first modern humans who migrated to Europe to form Aurignacian culture known as Cro-Magnons. Although European Bohunician culture that may be linked to Emiran and Ahmarian itself and dated at 48,000 BP may predate it. There is also a claim that it is roughly contemporary with the Aurignacian and the Gravettian cultures of Europe, all emerging prior to the Athlitian, which was also contemporary with the Solutrean and Magdalenian cultures of Western Europe.\n\nThe technical knowledge of the Ahmarian culture, along with the other lithic industries, is considered the likely source of the abrupt and rapid takeover of the world in all directions as evidenced by the crossing of the Bering Strait towards America. Ahmarian technology, which included the complex of blade/bladelet-knapping techniques is also linked to the tools used by the hunter-gatherers of south-western Asia. \n"}
{"id": "16200376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16200376", "title": "Anchor plate", "text": "Anchor plate\n\nAn anchor plate, floor plate or wall washer is a large plate or washer connected to a tie rod or bolt. Anchor plates are used on exterior walls of masonry buildings, for structural reinforcement. Being visible, many anchor plates are made in a style that is decorative.\n\nOne popular style is the \"star anchor\" — an anchor plate cast or wrought in the shape of a five-pointed star. Other names and styles of anchor plate include earthquake washer, triangular washer, S-iron, and T-head. In the United Kingdom, pattress plate is the term for circular restraints, tie bar being an alternate term for rectangular restraints.\n\nAnchor plates are made of cast iron, sometimes wrought iron or steel, and are often used on brick or other masonry-based buildings. They are commonly found in many older cities towns and villages in Europe and in more recent cities with substantial legacies of 18th- and 19th-century brick construction, such as New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Cincinnati and Charleston, South Carolina, and in older earthquake prone cities such as San Francisco, as well as across all of Europe. The tie-rod-and-plate assembly braces the masonry wall against lateral bowing.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford Dictionary of Construction, Surveying and Civil Engineering\", an anchor plate \"is a plate attached to a component that enables other components to be connected to it.\"\n\nAlthough there are many types of anchors or anchorages, according to the \"Dictionary of Architecture and Construction\", an anchor plate specifically is a \"wrought-iron clamp, of Flemish origin, on the exterior side of a brick building wall that is connected to the opposite wall by a steel tie-rod to prevent the two walls from spreading apart; these clamps were often in the shape of numerals indicating the year of construction, or letters representing the owner's initials, or were simply fanciful designs.\" \n\nWhile most types of anchors are made of only steel, anchor plates might also contain malleable or cast iron. The exterior wall washer is most often made of a cast-iron star or a flat steel plate.\n\nIn Roman technology, wooden tie-beams (or tie rods) were used between arches to negate the outward horizontal forces between them.\n\nIn the modern era, tie-rods are made of iron or steel, and serve to reinforce vaults, arches, and in general masonry structures. Reinforced masonry walls are strengthened through a tie-rod that connects between parallel walls at the floor-level, which creates a horizontal compression state, thereby increasing the wall's shear strength. While the current literature is very poor, some studies have been done on analysis of anchor plates and tie-rods, for example one study dealing with concrete panels, which, although a thin veneer, may also need anchor plates to help stabilize the wall.\n\nThe pressure that an anchor plate provides is constantly stiff; however, there appears to be a limit of useful anchor plate widths. That is, a study found that widths greater than the advantage of having a wider plate decreased, meaning that there is a threshold for optimal function of the anchor plate.\n\n"}
{"id": "48847281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48847281", "title": "Ancient and modern arms", "text": "Ancient and modern arms\n\nAncient and modern are terms used in heraldry to differentiate two different coats of arms used at different periods by a family or other bearer. Reasons for changing arms have been numerous, the most famous being the change in the French royal arms to show three fleurs-de-lis instead of \"semee de lis\", possibly to symbolize the Holy Trinity. The reasons for other changes were more prosaic, for example where a court of chivalry ordered a change or differencing where two families claimed the same arms, as in the famous case of Scrope v Grosvenor. The resulting two versions of arms are referred to as \"France ancient\" and \"France modern\", \"Grosvenor ancient\" and \"Grosvenor modern\".\n"}
{"id": "25063561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25063561", "title": "Chaldean Diocese of Amid", "text": "Chaldean Diocese of Amid\n\nThe Diocese of Amid (Diyarbakir) was a diocese or archdiocese of the Chaldean Church from the sixteenth to the twentieth century. From at least the 13th century the city of Amid had been part of the Diocese of Maiperqat of the Church of the East; following the schism of 1552 it became the seat of its own diocese in the Chaldean Church.\n\nThe archdiocese lapsed in 1929 on the death of the bishop Shlemun Mushe al-Sabbagh. The title of Amid was revived by the Chaldean church in 1966 as the Chaldean Catholic Archeparchy of Amida. The Archeparchy is now the sole remaining Chaldean diocese in Turkey, so in effect has jurisdiction over all of Turkeys Chaldeans. They maintain 2 churches in Diyarbakir and the bishop resides in Istanbul.\n\nThe East Syriac Diocese of Amid was a comparatively late foundation. The city of Amid (Diyarbakir) was predominantly an Armenian and Syriac Orthodox centre; there is little evidence for a presence of the Church of the East in the earlier period. Amid was part of the Church of the East Diocese of Maiperqat in 1257, when the bishop Yohannan 'of Maiperqat and Amid' was present at the consecration of the patriarch Makkikha II. Some years later the bishop Ishodnah of 'Maiperqat, Amid and Mardin' was present at the consecrations of the patriarchs Denha I in 1265 and Yahballaha III in 1281. The diocese of Maiperqat is attested as early as 1018, and given the prominence of Maiperqat in the titles of these two bishops, Amid and Mardin were probably administered by the East Syriac bishops of Maiperqat in the thirteenth century.\nA manuscript in the Berlin collection lists seven purported fourteenth- and fifteenth-century bishops of Amid: Marutha, Sliba-zkha, Gabriel, Shemon, Nathaniel, Israel and Shubhalmaran. As with a similar list of bishops of Mardin, it is difficult to accept this list as genuine. Towards the end of the fifteenth century Amid appears to have been under the authority of the metropolitan Eliya of Nisibis, who is mentioned in the dating formulas of a number of manuscripts copied between 1477 and 1483.\n\nThe colophon of a manuscript copied in Mardin in 1502 mentions a metropolitan named Eliya. He is possibly to be identified with the above-mentioned metropolitan Eliya of Nisibis but more probably with the metropolitan Eliya of Gazarta, mentioned in the colophon of a manuscript of 1504.\n\nThe Chaldean diocese of Amid seems to have been founded by Yohannan Sulaqa shortly after the schism of 1552 that divided the Church of the East into the Assyrian Church of the East and the Chaldean Church. The monk Hormizd Habib, of the Asmar family of Amid, was consecrated metropolitan of Amid by Sulaqa on 19 November 1553, taking the name Eliya. He was sent to India with Sulaqa's brother Joseph in 1555 by the second Chaldean patriarch Abdisho IV Maron, and appears to have returned to Mesopotamia early in 1561. Thereafter he is mentioned as metropolitan of Amid, associated with the patriarchs Abdisho IV and Eliya VII, in a series of manuscripts from 1562 to 1579. He was able to convert the patriarch Shemon IX Denha to Catholicism, was created procurator by a synod of East Syriac bishops in 1580, and was sent on a mission to Rome to seek his confirmation by the Vatican. He died in Lebanon in 1582, on his return from Rome. \n\nAn archbishop of Amid named Joseph Eliya is mentioned by Leonard Abel in 1583, and is also included in his list of \"the more lettered Nestorians\" in 1587. \n\nThe metropolitan Eliya Bar Tappe, dependent on the patriarch Eliya VIII, is mentioned under a variety of titles in the dating formulas or colophons of several manuscripts between 1599 and 1618. He is listed in the reports of 1607 and 1610 as metropolitan of Amid, and a bishop Isho‘yahb of Seert is separately listed. He was one of a number of bishops addressed by Peter Strozza in a letter of 1614. In 1616 he was present at the synod of Amid as metropolitan of Seert, but up to 1612 seems to have been responsible for the diocese of Amid as well. \n\nIn 1615, after his return from Rome, the archdeacon Rabban Adam was consecrated metropolitan of Amid. He took the name Timothy, after the disciple of the apostle Paul, in compliment to pope Paul V. He was present at the synod of Amid in 1616, and signed its acts as 'metropolitan of Jerusalem and Amid'. He signed the profession of faith of Eliya IX in 1617 as 'archbishop of Jerusalem'. He is mentioned in the dating formula of a manuscript of 1619, and is said to have died of plague in 1621 or 1622. The note recording his death styled him 'metropolitan of Amid, Nisibis, Mardin, Hesna and Jerusalem'.\nAfter Timothy's death Ishoyahb, nephew of Eliya Bar Tappe and metropolitan of Seert since 1619, seems to have been responsible for Amid also until his death in 1628. A metropolitan named Joseph Ishoyahb, probably the same man, is mentioned together with the patriarch Eliya in the dating formula of a manuscript copied at Aleppo in 1626, suggesting that Aleppo was under the jurisdiction of the metropolitans of Amid at this period. \n\nThereafter the diocese of Amid seems to have been vacant for ten years until it was filled by the metropolitan Shemon, who was the scribe of manuscripts of 1637 and 1638 and is mentioned in the dating formulas of a number of manuscripts between 1651 and 1657. He is associated in these manuscripts with the Qochanes patriarch Shemon XI, a known supporter of the union with Rome, probably because of his Catholic sympathies.\n\nA metropolitan of Amid named Abdisho was one of the signatories of a letter of 22 November 1669 from the patriarch Eliya X to pope Clement IX. \n\nHe was succeeded very soon afterwards by Joseph, the future Amid patriarch, who was also dependent on the Eliya line. In 1672, not long after his consecration, Joseph became a Catholic, and was recognised as an independent archbishop of Amid and Mardin by the Turkish authorities in the face of strenuous opposition from the Nestorian patriarch Eliya X. Not all Amid's East Syriac Christians followed him, however, and a group loyal to Eliya X put forward one of their number, a man named David, who was consecrated by the Nestorian patriarch in opposition to Joseph in 1673. David seems to have resided in Amid for only four years, and on Joseph’s return from Rome in 1677 'fled to Egypt, where he has not been heard of since'. \n\nJoseph I became patriarch of the Amid Chaldeans in 1681. His health began to deteriorate soon afterwards, and he chose as his successor the Catholic poet Sliba Maruf of Telkepe, whom he ordained as a priest in 1689, giving him the name Joseph, and metropolitan of Amid in 1691. He left Amid again in August 1694 for a second visit to Rome, where he remained until his death in 1707. In 1696 the metropolitan Joseph was recognised by the Vatican as the Amid patriarch Joseph II. \n\nTimothy Maroge of Baghdad, the future Amid patriarch Joseph III, was consecrated metropolitan of Amid by Joseph II \"c.\"1705. He had been a metropolitan for three years and was ministering to the Chaldeans of Mardin when he was recalled to Amid on the outbreak of the plague of 1708. According to the narrative of the Syrian Catholic priest Eliya ibn al-Qsir, he was the only Chaldean bishop to have survived the plague. He was elected patriarch in 1713, a few months after the death of Joseph II in 1712. \n\nBetween 1717 and 1728 the metropolitan of Amid was Abd al-Ahad, son of Garabet, of Aïn Tannur, author of a \"Life\" of Joseph I, who took the name Basil. He was consecrated by Timothy III in the village of Aïn Tannur on Sunday, 5 November 1717. He died on 3 January 1728. His Catholic profession of faith is given by Assemani. \n\nHe was succeeded by Timothy Masaji, who was consecrated by Joseph III, and seems to have been metropolitan of Amid for nearly thirty years. According to one source, he died on 31 December 1756, but Tfinkdji states that he died on 1 January 1757, 'poisoned by the heretics, it is said'.\n\nAccording to Cardinal Tamburini, Joseph III consecrated a 23- or 25-year-old priest named Antony Gallo as his coadjutor on 20 November 1754, with the intention that he would eventually succeed him as Amid patriarch. Following protests by the Catholics of Amid his election as coadjutor was disallowed by the Vatican, and he died shortly afterwards, on 11 January 1757. Tisserant has suggested that Antony was also metropolitan of Amid from 1754 onwards, but it seems more likely that Timothy Masaji remained metropolitan of Amid until his death. \n\nTimothy Masaji was succeeded in 1757 by Lazar Hindi, who had been educated at the Propaganda. Lazar Hindi, who also took the name Timothy, was consecrated on 8 February 1757 by Basil, bishop of Mardin, shortly after the death of Joseph III in January 1757. He succeeded Joseph III as the fourth Amid patriarch shortly afterwards, and his transfer from the see of Amid and appointment as patriarch was confirmed by the Vatican on 25 March 1759.\n\nHe was succeeded by Yohannan al-Akkari (1760–77), who is mentioned in the dating formula of a manuscript of 1766/7, and then by Augustine Hindi (1777–1804). \n\nBasil Asmar of Telkepe, a monk of the monastery of Rabban Hormizd and metropolitan of Amadiya since 1824, fled to Amid in 1827 after being expelled from Telkepe by Yohannan Hormizd, and was consecrated metropolitan of Amid after the death of Augustine Hindi. On his death in 1842 he was succeeded by Giwargis Peter di Natale, the coadjutor of the patriarch Yohannan VIII Hormizd, who died in 1867. \n\nPeter Timothy Attar was metropolitan of Amid from 1870 to 1873. He was succeeded in 1874 by Abdisho Giwargis Khayyat, previously metropolitan of Amadiya, who became patriarch in 1894.\n\nThe last Chaldean bishop of Amid was Shlemun Mushe al-Sabbagh, who succeeded Giwargis Abdisho Khayyat in 1897. He left his diocese in 1915, during the massacres of Christians in the region. According to his epitaph in the Chaldean church of Mar Pethion in Amid, in which his name is given as Shlemun Bar Sra, he was born in Mosul in April 1865, became a priest in April 1888, was consecrated metropolitan of Amid and Maiperqat in September 1897, and died in June 1929. \n\nThe title of Amid, often now known as the Archeparchy of Diyarbakir, was revived by the Chaldean church in 1966 for the sole remaining Chaldean diocese in Turkey, whose bishop resided in Istanbul.\n\nA number of statistics are available for the Chaldean diocese of Amid. In 1757 it contained 3 churches and 5,000 believers (Hindi). In 1818 only three Jacobite villages, two Armenian villages, and the Chaldean village of Sharukhiya remained in the immediate vicinity of the city of Amid (Campanile). \n\nIn 1850 the diocese consisted of Amid itself and the villages of Sharukhiya and 'Ali Pasha' (Aïn Tannur), with two churches, four priests, and 150 Chaldean families (Badger). In 1867 it had 2 villages, 6 priests and 2,000 believers (Martin).\n\nIn 1896 the diocese of Amid had 3,000 Chaldeans, with parishes for Sharukhiya and Maiperqat, and stations in the villages of Boshat and Bakos (Chabot). The diocese had 3 churches, with a chapel at Aïn Tannur. \nThe diocese of Amid contained 9 villages, 12 priests and 4,180 believers in 1913 (Tfinkdji). By then it also included the villages of 'Navdacht', 'Zéré' and 'Attche' (Hattakh near Maiperqat), which lay in the plain between the Tigris and Sasun rivers, and had been recently converted from the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\n"}
{"id": "59132659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59132659", "title": "Christopher Columbus and the Participation of the Jews in the Spanish and Portuguese Discoveries", "text": "Christopher Columbus and the Participation of the Jews in the Spanish and Portuguese Discoveries\n\nChristopher Columbus and the Participation of the Jews in the Spanish and Portuguese Discoveries is a scholarly work by Meyer Kayserling, translated into English and published in 1894. In it, Keyserling reports on an extensive search of Spanish archives including those at Alcalá de Henares, Barcelona, Madrid, and Seville. His research showed that Marranos, who attempted to shield themselves and their families from the anti-Semitic violence of the Spanish Inquisition by outwardly professing Christianity, were an integral part of the European colonization of the Americas. Keyserling's discovery of evidence that Luis de Torres, who sailed with Columbus in 1492, was a Marrano is memorialized in the naming of Luis de Torres Synagogue in the Bahamas.\n"}
{"id": "37550551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37550551", "title": "Cornelis Kiliaan", "text": "Cornelis Kiliaan\n\nCornelis Kiliaan (1528, Duffel – 1607, Antwerp), was a 16th-century lexicographer, linguist, translator and poet of the Southern Netherlands.\n\nHe was born in Duffel between 1528 and 1530. His parents, Anna and Hendrick van Kiele Rechtstraets, were wealthy citizens of Duffel. His father died when he was still a child. \nIn 1548, he went to study Latin, Greek and Hebrew at University of Louvain, where he later taught law. After his studies, he found a job in the printshop recently founded by Christophe Plantin, which grew to become the largest in Europe of that period. He started at the bottom as a typographer and printer, but he was promoted to first assistant in 1558. Plantin was clearly confident in the quality of Kiliaan because in 1565, he was appointed proofreader, a function reserved for scholars. Perhaps it helped that after his mother died in 1564, the whole of the family wealth passed into Kiliaan's hands, leaving him free of financial worries and allowing him to pursue his studies on language and the Bible. During his print career he worked on several translations, even translating documents seized from the Spanish enemy for the local authorities during the Dutch Revolt. In 1574 he published a Dutch-Latin dictionary \"Dictionarium Teutonico-Latinum\", with 12,000 entries, which was innovative because he indicated forms close to other related languages. He was thus the first in Europe to implement linguistic comparison. In 1588, Kiliaan completed a second edition of his dictionary that was almost three times as large. This time he used not only other dictionaries as a source, but also delved into other published works. Another novelty is that he indicated a number of words in the region in which they were used. Finally, in 1599 he published his magnum opus, the etymology. This book is mentioned as one of the 1000 most important texts of the Dutch language in the Canon of Dutch Literature.\n\nAt age 50, he married Maria Bosmans who gave him three daughters: Catharina, Maria and Anna. In 1604, he resigned from the Plantin printshop due to illness. He died 15 April 1607 and was buried at the Cathedral of Our Lady in Antwerp.\n\n"}
{"id": "72208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72208", "title": "Counterfactual history", "text": "Counterfactual history\n\nCounterfactual history, also sometimes referred to as virtual history, is a form of historiography that attempts to answer \"what if\" questions known as counterfactuals. Black and MacRaild provide this definition: \"It is, at the very root, the idea of conjecturing on what did not happen, or what might have happened, in order to understand what did happen.\" The method seeks to explore history and historical incidents by means of extrapolating a timeline in which certain key historical events did not happen or had an outcome which was different from that which did in fact occur. It has produced a literary genre which is variously called alternative history, speculative history, or hypothetical history.\n\nOne goal is to estimate the relative importance of a specific event, incident or person. For instance, to the counterfactual claim \"What would have happened had Hitler drunk coffee instead of tea on the afternoon he committed suicide?\", the timeline would have remained unchanged—Hitler in all likelihood still would have committed suicide on April 30, 1945, regardless of what he had to drink that afternoon. However, to the counterfactual \"What would have happened had Hitler died in the July 1944 assassination attempt?\", all sorts of possibilities become readily apparent, starting with the assumption that the German generals, had they been able to consolidate power over remaining Nazi functionaries such as Goebbels and Himmler, would probably have sued for peace, bringing an early end to World War II. (Historians generally feel popular support for the Party was still very strong in July 1944, and the party apparatus of Himmler, Goebbels, Speer, Bormann, Göring etc. would survive even an assassination of Hitler.) Thus, the counterfactual brings into sharp relief the question of how important Hitler was as an individual and how his personal fate shaped the course of the war and, ultimately, of world history.\n\nAlthough there are Victorian examples of counterfactual history, it was not until the very late 20th century that the exploration of counterfactuals in history was to begin in earnest.\n\nAn early example is \"If It Had Happened Otherwise\" (1931) which features a contribution by Winston Churchill who examined what would have happened had Robert E. Lee won at the Battle of Gettysburg. Although this volume is notable for featuring imagined histories by serious historians, the histories are presented in narrative form (in most cases with a fairly whimsical tone) without any analysis of the reasoning behind these scenarios, so they fall short of modern standards for serious counterfactual history and are closer to the fictional alternate history genre.\n\nA significant foray into treating counterfactual scenarios seriously was made by the economic historian Robert Fogel. In his 1964 book \"\", Fogel tried to use quantitative methods to imagine what the U.S. economy would have been like in 1890 had there been no railroads. Fogel hypothesizes that, in the absence of the railroad, America’s large canal system would have been expanded and its roads would have been improved through pavement; both of these improvements would take away from the social impact of the railroad. He estimates that “the level of per capita income achieved by January 1, 1890 would have been reached by March 31, 1890, if railroads had never been invented.”\n\nFew further attempts to bring counterfactual history into the world of academia were made until the 1991 publication of \"Plausible Worlds: Possibility and Understanding in History and the Social Sciences\" by the Cambridge sociologist Geoffrey Hawthorn, who carefully explored three different counterfactual scenarios. This work helped inspire \"\" (1997), a collection of essays exploring different scenarios by a number of historians, edited by the historian Niall Ferguson. Ferguson has become a significant advocate of counterfactual history, using counterfactual scenarios to illustrate his objections to deterministic theories of history such as Marxism, and to put forward a case for the importance of contingency in history, theorizing that a few key changes could result in a significantly different modern world. A series of \"What If?\" books edited by Robert Cowley presented dozens of essays by historians or prominent writers about \"how a slight turn of fate at a decisive moment could have changed the very annals of time.\"\n\nSome scholars argue that a counterfactual is not as much a matter of what happened in the past but it is the disagreement about which past events were most significant. For example, William Thompson employs a sequence of counterfactuals for eight lead economies that have driven globalization processes for almost a thousand years. From Song dynasty in China to Genoa, Venice, Portugal, the Netherlands, Britain, and the United States, and claims that each actor in succession played an unusually critical role in creating a structure of leadership that became increasingly global in scope across time.\n\nCounterfactual history is neither historical revisionism nor alternate history.\n\nCounterfactual history distinguishes itself through its interest in the very incident that is being negated by the counterfactual, thus seeking to evaluate the event's relative historical importance. Such historians reason arguments for each change, outlining changes in broad terms only, as befits a mere byproduct of the exercise.\n\nAn alternate history writer, on the other hand, is interested precisely in the hypothetical scenarios that flow from the negated incident or event. A fiction writer is thus free to invent very specific events and characters in the imagined history.\n\nThe line is sometimes blurred as historians may invent more detailed timelines as illustrations of their ideas about the types of changes that might have occurred. But it is usually clear what general types of consequences the author thinks are reasonable to suppose would have been likely to occur, and what specific details are included in an imagined timeline only for illustrative purposes.\n\nThe line is further blurred by novelists such as Kim Stanley Robinson, whose alternate-history novel \"The Years of Rice and Salt\" has a character talking of historians' use of counterfactuals, within the novel's alternate history. He dismisses this as \"a useless exercise\".\n\nMost historians regard counterfactual history as perhaps entertaining, but not meeting the standards of mainstream historical research due to its speculative nature. Advocates of counterfactual history often respond that all statements about causality in history contain implicit counterfactual claims—for example, the claim that a certain military decision helped a country win a war presumes that if that decision had not been made, the war would have been less likely to be won, or would have been longer.\n\nSince counterfactual history is such a recent development, a serious, systematic critique of its uses and methodologies has yet to be made, as the movement itself is still working out those methods and frameworks.\n\nAviezer Tucker has offered a range of criticism of this approach to the study of the past both in his review of Ferguson's \"Virtual History in History and Theory\" and in his book \"Our Knowledge of the Past: A Philosophy of Historiography\", as has Richard J. Evans in his book \"Altered Pasts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19148025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19148025", "title": "Creationist museum", "text": "Creationist museum\n\nA creationist museum is a facility that hosts exhibits which use the established natural history museum format to present a young Earth creationist view that the Earth and life on Earth were created some 6,000 to 10,000 years ago in six days. These facilities generally promote pseudoscientific Biblical literalist creationism and contest evolutionary science, which has led to heavy criticism from the scientific community.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52910724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52910724", "title": "Emidio Campi", "text": "Emidio Campi\n\nEmidio Campi (born 30 September 1943) is a Swiss historian. As a church historian, he is a specialist in the Reformation in Italy and Switzerland, and has researched and published articles on John Calvin, Peter Martyr Vermigli, Huldrich Zwingli, Heinrich Bullinger and other reformers.\n\nHe was born on 30 September 1943. He is married with four children.\n\nHe attended the University of Tubingen and the University of Zurich. He is currently the Emeritus Professor of Church History at the University of Zurich. and a director of the Institute for the History of the Swiss Reformation His specialist area of research is the Protestant reformation. Campi retired on 1 August 2009, following which he was undertook various positions as visiting professor in Montreal, Beirut, Buenos Aires, Lincoln (Nebraska), Grand Rapids (Michigan), New York City, Genoa, Modena and Seoul.\n\nHe is one of the world’s leading scholars of the Chuch, and particularly the Reformation (along with Peter Opitz and Christian Moser and Herman Selderhuis), and has lectured extensively on the Reformation and those who drove it, for instance, Arnold of Brescia, and Luther. Notably, he has suggested that the sixteenth-century Swiss Reformers Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin were advocates of a Social market economy; for example, Calvin, Campi says, \"would have decisively combated every system that takes social injustice as a given, because in his eyes, social injustice is an offense to the Creator.\" \n\nHis books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51682519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51682519", "title": "Ernest Will", "text": "Ernest Will\n\nErnest Louis Georges Will (25 April 1913 – 24 September 1997) was a 20th-century French archaeologist and University professor, a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.\n\nAfter he finished his secondary studies at the Jean Sturm Gymnasium and passed a licence de lettres at the Strasbourg University, Ernest Will joined the École Normale Supérieure in 1933 and obtained an Aggregation classique in 1936. He was a student of the French School at Athens from 1937 to 1939 and led excavations on the sites of Thasos, Delos and Delphi. When he was mobilized at the approach of World War II, he was affected in Beirut to the staff of general Weygand. After the Armistice of 22 June 1940, he returned to France where he was now a teacher at the lycée Thiers in Marseille from 1940 to 1943, an assistant to dean Charles Dugas at the Faculty of Arts of Lyon, then he taught at the Collège-lycée Ampère in Lyon (1945).\n\nOn 1 October 1946, he became, with Jean Starcky, one of the first residents of the French Institute for Archaeology in Beirut, which has founded the same year by Henri Seyrig and specialized in research on the Hellenized Middle East.\n\nOn his return to France in 1951, he was an assistant in Greek language at the University of Lille (1951–1953). He defended a thèse d'État ès lettres in 1953, entitled \"Le relief cultuel gréco-romain : contribution à l'histoire de l'art de l'Empire romain\", and was recruited as a university professor in Lille (1953–1963). He was Director of Historic Antiquities of North-Picardie (1953–1968). He joined the Faculté des lettres de Paris as Greek language and literature professor (1963–1970) and then became a professor of art history and archeology at the Institute of Art and Archaeology of the Pantheon-Sorbonne University (1970-1973).\n\nHe returned to Beirut as Director of the Institut français d’archéologie du Proche-Orient (IFAPO) (1973-1980), and in this context, engaged into considerable activity during the Lebanese Civil War, to protect the interests of the Institute and \"give it a new impetus,\" including by opening branches in Amman (Jordan) and Damascus (Syria) Since 2003, the IFAPO is a component of the current Institut français du Proche-Orient (IFPO).\n\nAfter his mission was accomplished, he resumed his position at the Institut d'art et d'archéologie then took his academic retirement in 1982.\n\nFor 19 years he directed the academic journal \"Syria\" dedicated to archaeology published by the Institut Français du Proche-Orient (1978–1997).\n\nHe was appointed member of the Scientific Council of the École française d'Extrême-Orient in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8447152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8447152", "title": "Estat Català", "text": "Estat Català\n\nEstat Català (, literally \"Catalan State\") is a pro-independence nationalist historical political party of Catalonia (Spain).\n\nEstat Català was founded by Francesc Macià in 1922 on its origins as a political and paramilitary organisation whose purpose was to bring about the independence of Catalonia from Spain. During the 1920s, the party was active in the fight against General Primo de Rivera's regime and the monarchy. Their actions included a failed assassination attempt against the King of Spain Alfonso XIII in an operation of its secret paramilitary unit named Santa Germandat Catalana de la Bandera Negra (Holy Catalan Brotherhood of the Black Flag) that was known as the Complot de Garraf (Conspiracy of Garraf). Estat Català also raised a small army named Exèrcit Català (Catalan Army) led by Francesc Macià to take control over the Principality from Prats-de-Mollo-la-Preste, in French Northern Catalonia.\nWhen the government of Primo de Rivera banned separatist movements, the party became clandestine and Francesc Macià went into exile. Nonetheless, Estat Català was one of the parties promoting the \"San Sebastian pact\" with Basque nationalism, Galician nationalists and Spanish republicans they agreed to push for a democratic process in the Spanish monarchy.\n\nDuring a conference held on the 17 and 19 of March 1931 at \"Cros\" street in the \"Sants\" district of Barcelona, Estat Català joined the Partit Republicà Català and the political group L'Opinió to form Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Nevertheless, inside Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the organizational autonomy of Estat Català was preserved and it controlled the influential youth section of the party (known as Joventuts d'Esquerra Republicana-Estat Català and, across Francesc Macià, his controlled the leadership of the new party.\n\nIn April 1931, Francesc Macià proclaimed the Catalan Republic in Barcelona, and established the Generalitat de Catalunya. Francesc Macià, with the support of a wide majority of the Catalan people, was the first president of the re-established Generalitat. After Francesc Macià's death (December, 1933) Estat Català tried to retain control of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, competing with the successor of Macià, the regionalist (rather than independentist) Lluís Companys (whose political background was in the Partit Republicà Català). The leadership of Estat Català fell to Josep Dencàs i Puigdollers and Estat Català took control of the Council of Interior and the policial forces of Catalonia. After the failure of the armed insurrection of October 1934, that pitted the autonomous government of Catalunya and its police with the Spanish government and the Spanish Army, Estat Català, after accusing Lluís Companys of perfidity, left Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya and once again became an independent party. The youth section of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, traditionally strongly paramilitary, also left the party and adhered to Estat Català. In 1936 the Spanish Civil War began.\n\nEstat Català fought actively on the war fronts, creating its own corps of volunteers, the most important military units of Estat Català being the Pyrenaic mountain militias named Regiment Pirinenc de Catalunya, the Columna Macià-Companys and the expeditionary corp that fought in Majorca named Columna Volant Catalana (later 132 Brigada Mixta.\n\nEstat Català were opposed to the revolutionary process in Catalonia during the war and to president Lluís Companys's delivery of power to anarchist syndicates. Relations between Estat Català and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya became very bad. Estat Català planned a conspiracy to take control of the Autonomous government of Catalonia using its military units and the police of Catalonia for re-lead the situation using the force to be able to proclaim Catalonia's independence. The conspiracy to be discovered in September 1936 and the principal leaders of Estat Català were forced to flee to France. \n\nFrom 1939, having lost the war, many of the combatants of the party were executed or died in exile. Also, some militants in exile in France were captured by the French government, handed to the German nazis and deported to the extermination camps of Mauthausen and Gusen. Those who stayed free joined the French Resistance and had worked intensely to help allied airmen and Jews to escape from occupied France and against the Francoist State up to his death.\n\nEstat Català also gave Catalan nationalism a globalised vision of the Catalan nation: as early as in 1942, the party published the first map of the so-called \"Catalan Countries\" which included the Principality (with Northern Catalonia included), the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands, the coterminous area of Catalonia with Aragón (known as La Franja or \"The Stripe\") and the ancient Catalan town of Alghero in Sardinia.\n\nIn 1975, after the death of Franco, Spain started a process of democratisation. In 1976, after decades of secrecy, Estat Català claimed again its legalization under the direction of historical members of the party such as Josep Planchart i Martori, Ramon Rius, Xavier Balagueró i Ràfols, Jaume Ros i Serra, Martí Torrent i Blanchart, etc. Supporter of the independence movement of the Catalan Countries were declared, and interclass-conscious and they received the adhesion of historical militants of the years of the foundation of the party like Ventura Gassol i Rovira. By the time the Spanish general elections of 1977 were held Estat Català yet had not been legalized and had to form a coalition with other parties in the same situation (like Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya). Estat Català achieved legalization that same year and, on 16 September 1977 was finally registered in the Registry of Political Parties of the Ministerio del Interior. Later it spoke against the approval of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and the regional political autonomy, since it considered them tools contrary to the full freedoms of the Catalans, like this like continuation of the Spanish State of the \"Caudillo\" Franco. According to the positioning of Estat Català, sustained already during the Spanish State on considering the possibility of a claim future of Statute, a Statute like that of 1979 remained subordinated to a Constitution on he denying the inalienable national rights and imposing a Borbonic monarchy which was the heir of that of 1714 and of Francoist Spain.\n\nEstat Català has contested Spanish general elections, but it did not initially stand in the Catalan regional elections, in order to not reduce the vote of the other nationalist parties. In the Spanish general elections of 1979 it obtained 6,328 votes, which was 0.29% of the total. At the municipal level Estat Català use the name Acció Municipal Democràtica has been presented repeatedly in the elections or in proper noun or lamb through its coalition.\n\nEstat Català has contested several elections but has never attained a result better than 0.6% of the vote in Catalonia. At municipal level, through its municipal coalition Acció Municipal Democràtica it has achieved a variable number of town councilors depending on the electoral contest and also the government of some towns (45 town councilors 1979, 9 town councilors and two mayor's offices 2007, etc...)\n\nRegarding the recent results Estat Català contested the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia in 1999, obtaining 1,174 votes (0.06%). In the Spanish general elections of 2000, it obtained 2,321 votes to the Congress of Deputies (0.07%) and 17,825 in the Senate (0.53%), to the elections in the Parliament of Catalonia (2003) it obtained 1,890 votes (0.06%) and to the Elections in the European Parliament of 2004 it obtained 1,540 votes (0.07%). From 2004 the party has not stood in elections except for local elections through its municipal coalition Acció Municipal Democràtica with which obtained, in 2007, 9 town councilors who allowed it to sustain the government of two town councils.\n\nIn recent years different groups have been fighting over who are the heirs of the historical party at a moment when support for independence is a cross-party policy widely supported and Estat Català have supported different options in different elections, Esquerra Republicana, Solidaritat Catalana per la Independència, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1659706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1659706", "title": "Eugène Schueller", "text": "Eugène Schueller\n\nEugène Paul Louis Schueller (20 March 1881 – 23 August 1957) was a French pharmacist and entrepreneur who was the founder of L'Oréal, the world's leading company in cosmetics and beauty. He was one of the founders of modern advertising.\n\nAs a young French chemist of Alsatian paternal origin, Eugène Schueller graduated in 1904 from the Institut de Chimie Appliquée de Paris (now Chimie ParisTech). Schueller developed in 1907 an innovative hair-color formula, which he called Oréale. He formulated and manufactured his own products, and sold them to Parisian hairdressers.\n\nIn 1909, he registered his company, the \"Société Française de Teintures Inoffensives pour Cheveux\", the future L'Oréal. The guiding principles of the company that would become L'Oréal were put into place from the start: research and innovation in the interest of beauty.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, Schueller provided financial support and held meetings for La Cagoule at L'Oréal headquarters. La Cagoule was a violent French fascist-leaning, antisemitic and anti-communist group whose leader formed a political party Mouvement Social Révolutionnaire (MSR, Social Revolutionary Movement) which in Occupied France supported the Vichy collaboration with the conquerors from Nazi Germany.\n\nL'Oréal hired several members of the group as executives after World War II, such as Jacques Corrèze, who served as CEO of the U.S. operation. This involvement was extensively researched by Michael Bar-Zohar in his book, \"Bitter Scent\".\n\nSchueller's daughter, Liliane Bettencourt, was the widow of André Bettencourt with whom she had one daughter, Françoise Bettencourt Meyers, a member of L'Oréal's board of directors. Françoise Meyers is married to Jean-Pierre Meyers, whose rabbi grandfather died in the Nazi concentration camp at Auschwitz. At one time, Liliane Bettencourt was the wealthiest woman in the world, with holdings estimated at US$36.4 billion.\n\nThe head office of L'Oréal in Clichy, Hauts-de-Seine is named \"Centre Eugène Schueller\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15213289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15213289", "title": "Gaius Servilius Vatia", "text": "Gaius Servilius Vatia\n\nGaius Servilius Vatia was a Praetor in 114 BC.\n\nHe married Caecilia Metella, born c. 170 BC, daughter of Quintus Caecilius Metellus Macedonicus. By her he had: \n\n"}
{"id": "33119037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33119037", "title": "Henriette-Bathily Women's Museum", "text": "Henriette-Bathily Women's Museum\n\nThe Henriette-Bathily Women's Museum (in French: \"Musée de la Femme Henriette-Bathily\") is a museum which was located on Gorée, an island on the coast of Senegal, across from the House of Slaves (Gorée). Since May 2015, it is now located in Dakar, at the Place du Souvenir Africain et de la Diaspora (Corniche Ouest).\nA project conceived in 1987 by the filmmaker Ousmane William Mbaye, it was opened in 1994 under the direction of Annette Mbaye d'Erneville.\n\nThere were two levels within this colonial residence, built in 1777 during the French colonial period, having belonged to a wealthy signare, Victoria Albis. Until 1962, it was the property of the Angrand family, notably Armand-Pierre Angrand, a descendant of the signare, writer, a mayor of Gorée and the first mayor of colour of Dakar in 1936.\n\nMuseum exhibits include common objects from the colonial period, farming tools, musical instruments, pottery, basketry, as well as photographs allowing a better understanding of the daily life of women in the country. The prominent figures of Senegalese women's emancipation are celebrated, for example the novelist Aminata Sow Fall. The building was also previously a courthouse, then the Museum of the Institut fondamental d'Afrique noire which was succeeded in 1966 by Institut Français d'Afrique Noire.\n\nWorkshops were organized there and women of the island gather there to work together, to follow literacy courses, or to receive artisanal training (cloth dyeing, batik, weaving, glass painting, or traditional embroidery).\n\nSpecific projects are aimed at disabled women.\n\nThe museum has a number of facilities in addition to the artifact displays. It includes an audiovisual room; a boutique; a garden cafe, and an \"Espace Culturel et Artisanat\" (cultural and artisan space) enabling groups of women from all regions and ethnic backgrounds of Senegal to work at the museum and demonstrate their wide knowledge to visitors. It also provides women with education and training in literacy, civil education, environmental conservation and health education provides training in handicraft techniques. There is a documentation and specialized library service to provide a public databank and research centre. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21931632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21931632", "title": "History of Panama (1964–77)", "text": "History of Panama (1964–77)\n\nPublic demonstrations and riots arising from popular resentment over United States policies and the overwhelming presence of United States citizens and institutions had not been uncommon, but the rioting that occurred in January 1964 was uncommonly serious. The incident began with a symbolic dispute over the flying of the Panamanian flag in the Canal Zone.\n\nFor some time the dispute had been seriously complicated by differences of opinion on that issue between the Department of Defense and the Department of State. On the one hand, the military opposed accepting a Panamanian flag, emphasizing the strategic importance of unimpaired United States control in the Canal Zone and the dangerous precedent that appeasement of the rioters' demands would set for future United States-Panamanian relations. The Department of State, on the other hand, supported the flag proposal as a reasonable concession to Panamanian demands and a method of avoiding major international embarrassment. Diplomatic officials also feared that the stability of Panamanian political institutions themselves might be threatened by extensive violence and mob action over the flag issue.\n\nThe United States finally agreed to raise the Panamanian and United States flags side by side at one location. The special ceremony on September 21, 1960 at the Shaler Triangle was attended by the new governor of the zone, Major General William A. Carter, along with all high United States military and diplomatic officers and the entire Panamanian cabinet. Even this incident, however, which marked official recognition of Panama's \"titular\" sovereignty, was marred when the United States rejected former president Ernesto de la Guardia's request to allow him to raise the flag personally. De la Guardia, as a retaliatory measure, refused to attend the ceremony and extended invitations to the presidential reception after the ceremony only to the United States ambassador and his senior diplomatic aides; United States Canal Zone and military officials were excluded.\n\nPanamanians remained dissatisfied as their flag appeared at only one location in the Canal Zone, while the United States flag flew alone at numerous other sites. An agreement was finally reached that at several points in the Canal Zone the United States and Panamanian flags would be flown side by side. United States citizens residing in the Canal Zone were reluctant to abide by this agreement, however, and the students of an American high school, with adult encouragement, on two consecutive days hoisted the American flag alone in front of their school.\n\nWord of the gesture soon spread across the border, and on the evening of the second day, January 9, 1964, nearly 200 Panamanian students marched into the Canal Zone with their flag. A struggle ensued, and the Panamanian flag was torn. After that provocation, thousands of Panamanians stormed the border fence. The rioting lasted 3 days, and resulted in 21 deaths, serious injuries to several hundred persons, and more than US$2 million of property damage.\n\nAt the outbreak of the fighting, Panama charged the United States with aggression. Panama severed relations with the United States and appealed to the Organization of American States (OAS) and the United Nations (UN). On January 10 the OAS referred the case to the Inter-American Peace Committee. When the UN Security Council met, United States ambassador Adlai Stevenson noted that the Inter-American Peace Committee had already scheduled an on-the-spot investigation and urged that the problem be considered in the regional forum. A proposal by the Brazilian delegate that the president of the Security Council address an appeal to the two parties to exercise restraint was agreed on, and the UN took no further action.\n\nThe United States had hoped to confine the controversy to the Inter-American Peace Committee. But when negotiations broke down, Panama insisted that the Organ of Consultation under the 1947 Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (the so-called Rio Treaty) be convoked. The OAS Council, acting provisionally as the Organ of Consultation, appointed an investigating committee consisting of all the members of the Council except the two disputants. A joint declaration recommended by the Committee was signed by the two countries in April, and diplomatic relations were restored. The controversy smoldered for almost a year, however, until US President Lyndon B. Johnson announced that plans for a new canal would be drawn up and that an entirely new treaty would be negotiated.\n\nNegotiations were carried on throughout the first half of the presidency of Roberto Chiari's successor, Marcos Aurelio Robles. When the terms of three draft treaties—concerning the existing lock canal, a possible sea-level canal, and defense matters—were revealed in 1967, Panamanian public reaction was adverse. The new treaties would have abolished the resented \"in perpetuity\" clause in favor of an expiration date of December 13, 1999, or the date of the completion of a new sea-level canal if that were earlier. Furthermore, they would have compensated the Panamanian government on the basis of tonnage shipped through the canal, an arrangement that could have increased the annuity to more than US$20 million.\n\nThe intensity of Panamanian nationalism, however, was such that many contended that the United States should abandon involvement in Panama altogether. Proposals for the continued United States military bases in the Canal Zone, for the right of the United States to deploy troops and armaments anywhere in the republic, and for a joint board of nine governors for the zone, five of which were to be appointed by the United States, were particularly unpopular. Robles initially attempted to defend the terms of the drafts. When he failed to obtain treaty ratification and he learned that his own coalition would be at a disadvantage in the upcoming elections, he declared that further negotiations would be necessary.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the oligarchy was still tenuously in charge of Panama's political system. Members of the middle class, consisting largely of teachers and government workers, occasionally gained political prominence. Aspiring to upper-class stations, they failed to unite with the lower classes to displace the oligarchy. Students were the most vocal element of the middle class and the group most disposed to speak for the inarticulate poor; as graduates, however, they were generally coopted by the system.\n\nA great chasm separated the rural section from the urban population of the two major cities. Only the rural wageworkers, concentrated in the provinces of Bocas del Toro and Chiriquí, appeared to follow events in the capital and to express themselves on issues of national policy. Among the urban lower classes, antagonism between the Spanish speakers and the English- and French-speaking blacks inhibited organization in pursuit of common interests.\n\nLiteracy was high—about 77 percent—despite the scarcity of secondary schools in the rural areas. Voter turnout also tended to be high, despite the unreliability of vote counts. (A popular saying is \"He who counts the votes elects.\") Concentration on the sins of the United States had served as a safety valve, diverting attention from the injustices of the domestic system.\n\nThe multi-party system that existed until the \"coup d'état\" of 1968 served to regulate competition for political power among the leading families. Individual parties characteristically served as the personal machines of leaders, whose clients (supporters or dependents) anticipated jobs or other advantages if their candidate were successful. Of the major parties competing in the 1960s, only the highly factionalized National Liberal Party (\"Partido Liberal Nacional\", PLN) had a history of more than two decades. The only parties that had developed clearly identifiable programs were the small Socialist Party and the Christian Democratic Party (\"Partido Demócrato Cristiano\", PDC). The only party with a mass base was the Panameñista Party (\"Partido Panameñista\", PP), the electoral vehicle of the erratic former president, Arnulfo Arias. The Panameñista Party appealed to the frustrated, but lacked a clearly recognizable ideology or program.\n\nSeven candidates competed in the 1964 presidential elections, although only three were serious contenders. Robles, who had served as minister of the presidency in Chiari's cabinet, was the candidate of the National Opposition Union, comprising the PLN and seven smaller parties. After lengthy backstage maneuvers, Robles was endorsed by the outgoing president. Juan de Arco Galindo, a former member of the National Assembly and public works minister and brother-in-law of former President de la Guardia, was the candidate of the National Opposition Alliance (\"Alianza Nacional de Oposición\") coalition, comprising seven parties headed by the CPN. Arnulfo Arias was supported by the PP, already the largest single party in the country.\n\nAs usual, the status of the canal was a principal issue in the campaign. Both the liberal and the CPN coalitions cultivated nationalist sentiment by denouncing the United States. Arias, abandoning his earlier nationalistic theme, assumed a cooperative and conciliatory stance toward the United States. Arias attracted lower-class support by denouncing the oligarchy. The Electoral Tribunal announced that Robles had defeated Arias by a margin of more than 10,000 votes of the 317,312 votes cast. The CPN coalition trailed far behind the top two contenders. Arias supporters, who had won a majority of the National Assembly seats, attributed Robles's victory to the \"miracle of Los Santos\"; they claimed that enough corpses voted for Robles in that province to enable him to carry the election.\n\nThe problems confronting Robles were not unlike those of his predecessors but were aggravated by the consequences of the 1964 riots. In addition to the hardships and resentments resulting from the losses of life and property, the riots had the effect of dramatically increasing the already serious unemployment in the metropolitan areas. Despite his nationalistic rhetoric during the campaign, the new president was dependent on United States economic and technical assistance to develop projects that Chiari's government, also with United States assistance, had initiated. Chiari emphasized building schools and low-cost housing. He endorsed a limited agrarian-reform program. Like his predecessor, Robles sought to increase the efficiency of tax collection rather than raise taxes.\n\nBy 1967 the coalitions were being reshuffled in preparation for the 1968 elections. By the time Arias announced his candidacy, he had split both the coalitions that had participated in the 1964 elections and had secured the support of several factions in a coalition headed by the Panameñista Party. Robles's endorsement went to David Samudio of the PLN. A civil engineer and architect of middle-class background, Samudio had served as an assemblyman and had held several cabinet posts, including that of finance minister under Robles. In addition to the PLN, he was supported by the Labor and Agrarian Party (\"Partido Laborista Agrario\", PALA) and other splinter groups. (Party labels are deceptive; the PALA, for example, had neither an agrarian base nor organized labor support.) A PDC candidate, Antonio González Revilla, also entered the race.\n\nBecause many of Arias's supporters believed that the 1964 election had been rigged, the principal issue in the 1968 campaign became the prospective validity of the election itself. The credibility crisis became acute in February 1968 when the president of the Electoral Tribunal, a Samudio supporter, closed the central registration office in a dispute with the other two members of the tribunal, Arias supporters, over electoral procedures. The government brought suit before the Supreme Court for their dismissal, on the grounds that each man had a son who was a candidate for elective office. Thereupon González Revilla, with the backing of Arias, petitioned the National Assembly to begin impeachment proceedings against Robles for illegal interferences in electoral matters. Among other issues, Robles was accused of diverting public funds to Samudio's campaign.\n\nThe National Assembly met in special session and appointed a commission to gather evidence. Robles, in turn, obtained a judgment from a municipal court that the assembly was acting unconstitutionally. The National Assembly chose to ignore a stay order issued by the municipal court pending the reconvening of the Supreme Court on April 1, and on March 14 it voted for impeachment. On March 24, the National Assembly found Robles guilty and declared him deposed. Robles and the National Guard ignored the proceedings, maintaining that they would abide by the decision of the Supreme Court when it reconvened.\n\nThe Supreme Court, with only one dissenting vote, ruled the impeachment proceedings unconstitutional. The Electoral Tribunal subsequently ruled that thirty of the parliamentary deputies involved in the impeachment proceedings were ineligible for reelection. Robles, with the support of the National Guard, retained the presidency.\n\nThe election took place on May 12, 1968, as scheduled, and tension mounted over the succeeding eighteen days as the Election Board and the Electoral Tribunal delayed announcing the results. Finally the Election Board declared that Arias had carried the election by 175,432 votes to 133,887 for Samudio and 11,371 for González Revilla. The Electoral Tribunal, senior to the Board and still loyal to Robles, protested, but the commander of the National Guard, Brigadier General Bolívar Vallarino, despite past animosity toward Arias, supported the conclusion of the Board.\n\nArias took office on October 1, demanding the immediate return of the Canal Zone to Panamanian jurisdiction and announcing a change in the leadership of the National Guard. He attempted to remove the two most senior officers, Vallarino and Colonel José María Pinilla, and appoint Colonel Bolívar Urrutia to command the force. On October 11 the Guard, for the third time, removed Arias from the presidency. With seven of his eight ministers and twenty-four members of the National Assembly, Arias took refuge in the Canal Zone.\n\nThe overthrow of Arias provoked student demonstrations and rioting in some of the slum areas of Panama City. The peasants in Chiriquí Province battled guardsmen sporadically for several months, but the Guard retained control. Urrutia was initially arrested but was later persuaded to join in the two-man provisional junta headed by Pinilla. Vallarino remained in retirement. The original cabinet appointed by the junta was rather broad-based and included several Samudio supporters and one Arias supporter. After the first three months, however, five civilian cabinet members resigned, accusing the new government of dictatorial practices.\n\nThe provisional junta moved swiftly to consolidate government control. Several hundred actual or potential political leaders were arrested on charges of corruption or subversion. Others went into voluntary or imposed exile, and property owners were threatened with expropriation. The National Assembly and all political parties were disbanded, and the University of Panama was closed for several months while its faculty and student body were purged. The communications media were brought under control through censorship, intervention in management, or expropriation.\n\nPinilla, who assumed the title of president, had declared that his government was provisional and that free elections were to be scheduled. In January 1969, however, power actually rested in the hands of Omar Torrijos and Boris Martínez, commander and chief of staff, respectively, of the Guard. In early March, a speech by Martinez promising agrarian reform and other measures radical enough to alarm landowners and entrepreneurs provoked a coup within the coup. Torrijos assumed full control, and Martinez and three of his supporters in the military government were exiled.\n\nTorrijos stated that \"there would be less impulsiveness\" in government without Martinez. Torrijos did not denounce the proposed reforms, but he assured Panamanian and United States investors that their interests were not threatened.\n\nTorrijos, now a brigadier general, became even more firmly entrenched in power after thwarting a coup attempted by Colonels Amado Sanjur, Luis Q. Nentzen Franco, and Ramiro Silvera in December 1969. While Torrijos was in Mexico, the three colonels declared him deposed. Torrijos rushed back to Panama, gathered supporters at the garrison in David, and marched triumphantly into the capital. The colonels followed earlier competitors of Torrijos into exile. Because the governing junta (Colonel Pinilla and his deputy, Colonel Urrutia) had not opposed the abortive coup, Torrijos replaced them with two civilians, Demetrio B. Lakas, an engineer well liked among businessmen, and Arturo Sucre, a lawyer and former director of the national lottery. Lakas was designated \"provisional president\", and Sucre was appointed his deputy.\n\nIn late 1969 a close associate of Torrijos announced the formation of the New Panama Movement. This movement was originally intended to organize peasants, workers, and other social groups and was patterned after that of Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary Party. No organizational structure was established, however, and by 1971 the idea had been abandoned. The government party was revived under a different name, the Democratic Revolutionary Party (\"Partido Revolucionario Democrático\", PRD) in the late 1970s.\n\nA sweeping cabinet reorganization and comments of high-ranking officials in 1971 portended a shift in domestic policy. Torrijos expressed admiration for the socialist trends in the military governments of Peru and Bolivia. He also established a mutually supportive relationship with Cuba's Fidel Castro. Torrijos carefully distanced himself from the Panamanian Marxist left. The political label he appeared to wear most comfortably was \"populist\". In 1970 he declared, \"Having finished with the oligarchy, the Panamanian has his own worth with no importance to his origin, his cradle, or where he was born.\"\n\nTorrijos worked on building a popular base for his government, forming an alliance among the National Guard and the various sectors of society that had been the objects of social injustice at the hands of the oligarchy, particularly the long-neglected \"campesinos\". He regularly traveled by helicopter to villages throughout the interior to hear their problems and to explain his new programs.\n\nIn addition to the National Guard and the \"campesinos\", the populist alliance that Torrijos formed as a power base included students, the People's Party (\"Partido del Pueblo\", PdP), and portions of the working classes. Support for Torrijos varied among interest groups and over time. The alliance contained groups, most notably the Guard and students, that were traditionally antagonistic toward one another and groups that traditionally had little concern with national politics, e.g., the rural sector. Nationalism, in the form of support of the efforts of the Torrijos regime to obtain control over the canal through a new treaty with the United States, provided the glue for maintaining political consensus.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the strength of the alliance was impressive. Disloyal or potentially disloyal elements within the National Guard and student groups were purged; increased salaries, perquisites, and positions of political power were offered to the loyal majority. The adherence of the middle classes was procured partly through more jobs. In return for its support, the PdP was allowed to operate openly when all other political parties were outlawed.\n\nThe Torrijos effort to secure political support in the rural sector was an innovation in Panamanian politics. With the exception of militant banana workers in the western provinces of Chiriquí and Bocas del Toro, the \"campesinos\" traditionally have had little concern with national political issues. Unlike much of Latin America, in Panama the elite is almost totally urban based, rather than being a landed aristocracy.\n\nNo elections were held under the military government until April 1970, when the town of San Miguelito, incorporated as the country's sixty-fourth municipal district, was allowed to elect a mayor, treasurer, and municipal council. Candidates nominated by trade groups and other nonpartisan bodies were elected indirectly by a council that had been elected by neighborhood councils. Subsequently, the new system was extended throughout the country, and in 1972 the 505-member National Assembly of Municipal Representatives met in Panama City to confirm Torrijos's role as head of government and to approve a new constitution. The new document greatly expanded governmental powers at the expense of civil liberties. The state also was empowered to \"oversee the rational distribution of land\" and, in general, to regulate or initiate economic activities. In a reference to the Canal Zone, the Constitution also declared the ceding of national territory to any foreign country to be illegal. \n\nThe governmental initiatives in the economy, legitimated by the new Constitution, were already underway. The government had announced in early 1969 its intention to implement 1962 legislation by distributing 700,000 hectares of land within 3 years to 61,300 families. Acquisition and distribution progressed much more slowly than anticipated, however.\n\nNevertheless, major programs were undertaken. Primary attention and government assistance went to farmers grouped in organizations that were initially described as cooperatives but were in fact commercial farming operations by state-owned firms. The government also established companies to operate banana plantations—partly because a substantial amount of the land obtained under the land-reform laws was most suited to banana cultivation and had belonged to international fruit companies.\n\nEducational reforms instituted by Torrijos emphasized vocational and technica training at the expense of law, liberal arts, and the humanities. The programs introduced on an experimental basis in some elementary and secondary schools resembled the Cuban system of \"basic schools in the countryside\". New schools were established in rural areas in which half the student's time was devoted to instruction in farming. Agricultural methods and other practical skills were taught to urban students as well, and ultimately the new curriculum was to become obligatory even in private schools. Although the changes were being instituted gradually, they met strong resistance from the upper-middle classes and particularly from teachers.\n\nFar-reaching reforms were also undertaken in health care. A program of integrated medical care became available to the extended family of anyone who had been employed for the minimal period required to qualify for social security. A wide range of services was available not only to the worker's spouse and children, but to parents, aunts, uncles, cousins—to any dependent relative. Whereas in the past medical facilities had been limited almost entirely to Panama City, under Torrijos hospitals were built in several provincial cities. Clinics were established throughout the countryside. Medical-school graduates were required to spend at least two years in a rural internship servicing the scattered clinics.\n\nTorrijos also undertook an ambitious program of public works. The construction of new roads and bridges contributed particularly to greater prosperity in the rural areas. Although Torrijos showed greater interest in rural development than in urban problems, he also promoted urban housing and office construction in Panama City. These projects were funded, in part, by both increased personal and corporate taxes and increased efficiency in tax collection. The 1972 enactment of a new labor code attempted to fuse the urban working class into the populist alliance. Among other things the code provided obligatory collective agreements, obligatory payroll deduction of union fees, the establishment of a superior labor tribunal, and the incorporation of some 15,000 additional workers, including street vendors and peddlers, into labor unions. At the same time, the government attempted unsuccessfully to unite the nation's three major labor confederations into a single, government-sponsored organization.\n\nMeanwhile, Torrijos lured foreign investment by offering tax incentives and provisions for the unlimited repatriation of capital. In particular, international banking was encouraged to locate in Panama, to make the country a regional financial center. A law adopted in 1970 facilitated offshore banking. Numerous banks, largely foreign owned, were licensed to operate in Panama; some were authorized solely for external transactions. Funds borrowed abroad could be loaned to foreign borrowers without being taxed by Panama.\n\nMost of the reforms benefiting workers and peasants were undertaken between 1971 and 1973. Economic problems beginning in 1973 led to some backtracking on social programs. A new labor law passed in 1976, for example, withdrew much of the protection provided by the 1972 labor code, including compulsory collective bargaining. The causes of these economic difficulties included such external factors as the decline in world trade, and thus canal traffic. Domestic problems included a decline in agricultural production that many analysts attributed to the failure of the economic measures of the Torrijos government. The combination of a steady decline in per capita gross national product, inflation, unemployment, and massive foreign debts adversely affected all sectors of society and contributed heavily to the gradual erosion of the populist alliance that had firmly supported Torrijos in the early 1970s.\n\nIncreasingly, corruption in governing circles and within the National Guard also had become an issue in both national and international arenas. Torrijos's opponents were quick to note that his relatives appeared in large numbers on the public payroll.\n\nDuring the first two years after the overthrow of Arias, while the Guard consolidated its control of the government and Torrijos rooted out his competitors within the Guard, the canal issue was downplayed and generally held in abeyance. By 1971, however, the negotiation of new treaties had reemerged as the primary goal of the Torrijos regime.\n\nIn the 1970s, about 5 percent of world trade, by volume, some 20 to 30 ships daily, were passing through the canal. Tolls had been kept artificially low, averaging a little more than US$10,000 for the 8- to 10-hour passage, and thus entailing a United States government subsidy. Nevertheless, canal use was declining in the 1970s, because of alternate routes, vessels being too large to transit the canal, and the decline in world trade.\n\nThe canal, nevertheless, was clearly vital to Panama's economy. Some 30 percent of Panama's foreign trade passed through the canal. About 25 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings and 13 percent of its GNP were associated with canal activities. The level of traffic and the revenue thereby generated were key factors in the country's economic life.\n\nUnder the 1903 treaty, the governor of the Canal Zone was appointed by the president of the United States and reported to the secretary of war. The governor also served as president of the Canal Zone Company, and reported to a board of directors appointed by the secretary of war. United States jurisdiction in the zone was complete, and residence was restricted to United States government employees and their families. On the eve of the adoption of new treaties in 1977, residents of the Canal Zone included some 40,000 United States citizens, two-thirds of whom were military personnel and their dependents, and about 7,500 Panamanians. The Canal Zone was, in effect, a United States military outpost with its attendant prosperous economy, which stood in stark contrast to the poverty on the other side of its fences.\n\nBy the 1960s military activities in the zone were under the direction of the United States Southern Command (SOUTHCOM). The primary mission of SOUTHCOM was defending the canal. In addition, SOUTHCOM served as the nerve center for a wide range of military activities in Latin America, including communications, training Latin American military personnel, overseeing United States military assistance advisory groups, and conducting joint military exercises with Latin American armed forces.\n\nNegotiations for a new set of treaties were resumed in June 1971, but little was accomplished until March 1973 when, at the urging of Panama, the UN Security Council called a special meeting in Panama City. A resolution calling on the United States to negotiate a \"just and equitable\" treaty was vetoed by the United States on the grounds that the disposition of the canal was a bilateral matter. Panama had succeeded, however, in dramatizing the issue and gaining international support.\n\nThe United States signaled renewed interest in the negotiations in late 1973, when Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker was dispatched to Panama as a special envoy. In early 1974, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and Panamanian foreign minister Juan Antonio Tack announced their agreement on eight principles to serve as a guide in negotiating a \"just and equitable treaty eliminating once and for all the causes of conflict between the two countries.\" The principles included recognition of Panamanian sovereignty in the Canal Zone; immediate enhancement of economic benefits to Panama; a fixed expiration date for United States control of the canal; increased Panamanian participation in the operation and defense of the canal; and continuation of United States participation in defending the canal.\n\nAmerican attention was distracted later in 1974 by the Watergate scandal, impeachment proceedings, and ultimately the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon. Negotiations with Panama were accelerated by President Gerald R. Ford in mid-1975 but became deadlocked on four central issues: the duration of the treaty; the amount of canal revenues to go to Panama; the amount of territory United States military bases would occupy during the life of the treaty; and the United States demand for a renewable forty- or fifty-year lease of bases to defend the canal. Panama was particularly concerned with the open-ended presence of United States military bases and held that the emerging United States position retained the bitterly opposed \"perpetuity\" provision of the 1903 treaty and thus violated the spirit of the 1974 Kissinger-Tack principles. The sensitivity of the issue during negotiations was illustrated in September 1975 when Kissinger's public declaration that \"the United States must maintain the right, unilaterally, to defend the Panama Canal for an indefinite future\" provoked a furor in Panama. A group of some 600 angry students stoned the United States embassy.\n\nNegotiations remained stalled during the United States election campaign of 1976 when the canal issue, particularly the question of how the United States could continue to guarantee its security under new treaty arrangements, became a major topic of debate. Torrijos replaced Foreign Minister Tack with Aquilino Boyd in April 1976, and early the next year Boyd was replaced by Nicolás González Revilla. Rómulo Escobar Bethancourt, meanwhile, became Panama's chief negotiator. Panama's growing economic difficulties made the conclusion of a new treaty, accompanied by increased economic benefits, increasingly vital.\n\nThe new Panamanian negotiating team was thus encouraged by the high priority that President Jimmy Carter placed on rapidly concluding a new treaty. Carter added Sol Linowitz, former ambassador to the OAS, to the United States negotiating team shortly after taking office in January 1977. Carter held that United States interests would be protected by possessing \"an assured capacity or capability\" to guarantee that the canal would remain open and neutral after Panama assumed control. This view contrasted with previous United States demands for an ongoing physical military presence and led to the negotiation of two separate treaties. This changed point of view, together with United States willingness to provide a considerable amount of bilateral development aid in addition to the revenues associated with Panama's participation in the operation of the canal, were central to the August 10, 1977 announcement that agreement had been reached on two new treaties.\n"}
{"id": "28909474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28909474", "title": "History of public library advocacy", "text": "History of public library advocacy\n\nPublic libraries in the American Colonies can be traced back to 1656, when a Boston merchant named Captain Robert Keayne willed his collection of books to the town.\nChurch collections of books used by the public served as early versions of libraries in New England around the 18th century. One such example is the Kings Chapel Library in Boston, which was founded in 1698 with book donations from the Bishop of London.\n\nReverend Thomas Bray was instrumental in the establishment of libraries for public use. This Anglican clergyman had sponsored several parish libraries in England, and from 1695-1704 he managed to establish 70 libraries in the American Colonies. These included five provincial libraries located in the major cities of time, 39 parochial libraries at Anglican parishes, and 35 layman libraries where ministers were allowed to loan the materials to their local residents. Bray's provincial libraries in Maryland and South Carolina were both the beneficiaries of the first laws passed by the local legislation to secure and maintain the libraries in their provinces.\n\nIn 1731, Benjamin Franklin and his fellow members of the Junto established the Library Company of Philadelphia. This type of subscription library brought access to books for the residents who paid to become a member. It also served as a model and inspiration for many other libraries that began to spring up throughout the colonies. Other types of libraries included commercial circulating libraries, athenaeums, and school-district libraries. The start of the development of the American library as we know it today, however, began in full force between 1850 and 1900.\n\nIn the 1600s, British colonists brought their love of books to America, with the deceased often leaving their collections to the public. For example, Robert Keayne left his collection to his community, Boston Town Hall, which was considered a \"subscription\" or \"society\" library.The destruction of the Library of Congress by the British in the War of 1812 was devastating. However, the purchase of Thomas Jefferson's personal library, which contained materials of broader interests, influenced future public library content.\n\nIn 1833, The New York State school district raised taxes for public libraries. That same year, Reverend Abiel Abbot urged the citizens of Peterborough, New Hampshire, to establish a public library, which would be free to citizens and paid for by taxes.\n\nIn 1841 in Boston, French ventriloquist and philanthropist Alexandre Vattemare promoted the development of a public library. The American Library Association was formed in 1876 and continues to act as a fundamental entity for the continued advocacy and political involvement of public libraries.\n\nWomen's organizations were instrumental in advocating for the importance of public libraries and shaping their role in the community.\nCaroline M. Hewing, librarian and library advocate, was the first children's library associate.\n\nSince revenue from property taxes and federal funding alone do not support public libraries, advocates seek new ways for obtaining money, such as through private donations from library advocates like Andrew Carnegie, whose vast donations set precedent for the vital participation of future philanthropists.\nBill and Melinda Gates Foundation provide internet access and computer-related grants. However, there is much controversy involved in whether private donations can hurt the integrity of libraries.\n\nThe Boston Public Library opened in 1854 thanks to the efforts of Edward Everett and George Ticknor, local leading figures who wrote the Report in 1852. This document identified the historical importance of the written word and libraries and included passionate arguments for the necessity of a library in Boston.\n\nBoston Public Library, however, was not the first library supported by local taxes and available for all citizens. The first public library supported by taxes was the Peterborough Town Library in Peterborough, New Hampshire, which made books available to the public in 1833. New Hampshire was one of the first to use new state laws to its advantage, which entitled local government units to levy taxes. New Hampshire then founded the first completely tax-supported local public library in the United States under the model of \"open to all and free of charge\". This was the beginning of the modern library movement. Civic leaders identified taxes as an excellent primary means of support for libraries.\nNew York made the decision to open libraries to the public, supported by tax money raised by the local school districts. While this concept ultimately failed, it served as a foundation for current public library system.\n\n1853 was the year of the first Librarians' Convention. It was held in New York City and attended by 80 men. For three days, the men discussed issues critical to the institutions, such as cataloging, collection development, and communication.\n\nThe American Library Association was formed out of the Convention of Librarians held in Philadelphia in 1876. At the first meeting, Melvil Dewey was in attendance along with 102 other men and 13 women. It was an agreed philosophy among those present that the importance of reading contributed directly to social progress. The aim of the Association, in that resolution, was \"to enable librarians to do their present work more easily and at less expense.\"\n\nThe same year also saw the establishment of \"Library Journal\", which was edited by Melvil Dewey. The publication is still the most respected within the profession.\n\nDewey was also instrumental at the New York State Library as he developed a part of the library collection specifically for children, created the job of a librarian dedicated solely to reference materials, and spearheaded traveling libraries to serve communities without access to public libraries. Dewey stated, \"that state libraries were the best agencies for supporting the development of public and school libraries.\"\n\nNearly every large city could boast of a public library by the 1870s. Caroline Hewins became the first librarian of the Hartford Public Library and was active in the American Library Association. Hewins led the way in a new era of women as librarians and a general rise in librarianship in the late 19th century and early 20th century. Dewey founded the Columbia School of Library Economy in New York City, which later became the New York State Library School, with the majority of the students being women.\n\nBenefactors also played a large role in advocating for public libraries by providing money for construction. Andrew Carnegie began his legacy in 1881 by presenting his workers in Pittsburgh with a library. \"I choose free libraries as the best agencies for improving the masses of the people,\" said Carnegie. 2,500 libraries were constructed as a result of his philanthropy.\n\nThe start of the 20th century continued to see rapid growth in the establishment of public libraries. During the late 19th century, the General Federation of Women's Clubs (GFWC) was formed. This national organization became one of the main advocates for free public libraries in the United States. In 1904, Mrs. Charles A. Perkins wrote, in the Federation Bulletin (the official organ of the GFWC), that \"clubs had established 474 free public libraries.\" In order to start these libraries, clubwomen would advocate for various forms of legislation. Laws were needed to enable municipalities to provide tax support to libraries. The lobbying for this legislation created state commissions. Clubwomen would also raise money by utilizing their own skills through bake sales, entertainments, and other small-scale fund-raising events. Books were collected through donations or purchased from the funds earned by the clubs.\n\nIn 1914, the executive secretary of the American Library Association, G.B. Utley, stated that \"fully one half the libraries in the country had been established through the influence of American women.\"\n\nDuring World War I, the American Library Association established its Library War Service. Librarians expanded their services by work on the home front and overseas. Because of the success of libraries during the war, the development of library services were encouraged and promoted for all Americans.\n\nDuring the 1920s, the role of public libraries began to shift. As federal support for libraries expanded, the idea of promoting adult education became the focus in public libraries. In 1924, \"the report to the Carnegie Corporation, \"The American Public Library and the Diffusion of Knowledge\", included the observation that 'the free public library is already an accepted and cherished figure in American intellectual life...'\"\n\nIn 1926, the ALA study, \"Libraries and Adult Education\", was published, and the Board on Library and Adult Education (later the Adult Education Board) was established. The concept of libraries being connected with education quickly spread throughout the United States. \"During the 1920s and 1930s ALA embraced the idea of libraries as a means to provide adult educational opportunities and combined this idea with many efforts to extend library service to unserved areas.\"\n\nIn 1934, the American Library Association Executive Board developed a National Plan through its National Planning Committee. This was designed to \"examine the inequity of tax-support for public libraries and sought provision of financial support so that library materials might be available throughout the nation.\" The National Plan was approved by the American Library Association in 1935.\n\nThe Public Library Association division of the American Library Association was founded in 1944. It was developed to enhance the development and effectiveness of public library staff and services. It is a member-driven organization that provides a diverse program of publication, advocacy, continuing education, and programming for its members and others interested in the advancement of public library service. Among the Public Library Association's priority concerns are adequate funding for public libraries and improved access to library resources.\n\nAmerican Library Association published \"A National Plan for Public Library Service\" in 1948. This proposed \"a nation-wide minimum standard of service and support below which no library should fall.\" The plan advocated for equalization of financial support, pointing out the inequalities among states in per capita spending for public libraries.\n\nIn 1945, the American Library Association opened a Washington, DC office to strengthen their ties with the Office of Education and with Congress.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1952, the American Library Association hosted a study called \"Public Library Inquiry.\" It was multipart study \"to define legitimate library activity by adapting the traditional educational purposes of libraries to new social conditions and the public's willingness to pay for such services.\"\n\nThrough a concerted effort by the American Library Association's division of American Library Trustee Association, the Library Services Act was passed in 1956, currently called the Library Services and Technology Act. John E. Fogarty, worked with Senator Lister Hill to establish the LSA. The history of this effort is highlighted in James Healey's monograph: \"John E. Fogarty: Political Leadership for Library Development.\" Congressman Fogerty was impressed by the pioneer work of Rhode Island state librarian, Elizabeth Myer, and went on to champion extension of library service.\n\nThe 1960s brought about turmoil in libraries across the southern United States. African-Americans attempted to access white libraries across the American South. One of the most famous examples included the 1960 sit-in at Greenville, South Carolina. Eight African-American students refused to leave the Greenville Public Library and were arrested but soon released. A mere two months later the Greenville Public Library opened as an integrated facility. There was also the instance where two African-American ministers were attacked at the Anniston Public library when they attempted to integrate. Despite the deep-rooted feelings between African-Americans and Whites, most southern cities were more willing to integrate the public libraries over other public facilities. According to Michael Fultz, \"Of seventy-six southern cities with a population of fifty thousand or more in 1963, seventy-one had integrated main library facilities; sixteen of the twenty-one largest Deep South cities had integrated main libraries, although only two had integrated schools\" However, the significance of public library African-American integration in this decade should not be downplayed.\n\nAs libraries began to grow, so too did the discrimination regarding who could make use of the facilities. In some places, state and local governments were in support of segregation and in 1896 the Supreme Court upheld \"Plessy v. Ferguson \"which allowed the segregation of public places. Later, around 1902 Carnegie would fund the building of a public library in Atlanta which W.E.B. DuBois would speak out against as a place where “a full third of Atlanta’s population” would not be able to visit. Although, DuBois did not change the rulings of the law, his protests would bring about funding for “colored branches to the attention of philanthropists like Carnegie.” There were other libraries open for African Americans before 1921, but the first African American library to open in Atlanta would not be until July 25, 1921. The library included many notable librarians including Annie McPheeters who developed the non-circulating “Negro History Collection.” The city, in 1949, built a second branch to accommodate the rise in population and migration to the west side. Other areas in which libraries were built for the African American community include school libraries in Memphis, Tennessee (1903), Galveston, Texas (1904), and Jacksonville, Florida (1905) The overall development of African American libraries was slow to develop. In fact, it would not be until the “Civil Rights Movement of the 1950’s and 1960’s that segregated public libraries would be challenged through coordinated, non-violent protest action” (Digital Public Library of America).\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, public libraries began to understand the importance of working with American youth to promote education. According to Shirley A. Fitzgibbons, \"More public libraries began to offer programs and services for preschoolers at younger ages, including toddlers and babies along with parents and caretakers, in recognition of this educational role to facilitate language and literacy development of the young child.\" This concept has proven to be instrumental in the development of childhood literacy into the current decade.\n\nIn 1985 – there was a volunteer that worked in a public library that played an important role in her community by taking books every week to the elderly and handicapped people in their community. She also took her own time to help out the elderly by helping the read tax and other forms that they needed to fill out.\n\nIn 1986, Nancy Herman, who works for American Library Association's office for Intellectual Freedom, said that 2 different schools in Illinois was challenging Mark Twain's book Huck Finn because the schools were saying that the book was racist. The book was not banned due to the NAACP saying that the \"book should not be banned, but should be explained\" (Fred Rothenburg)\n\nIn May 1988, a library in New Haven, Connecticut decided to take all of their materials that were getting really old, brittle, falling apart of even deteriorating like books, maps, manuscripts and other materials to be transferred to microfilm, so that the materials could be saved.\n\nMarch 13, 1991 – around sixty librarians and trustees got together to find ways to be able to get more funding for libraries \"from the state and municipalities and to press for country aid.\" They feel like they need more funding and support especially for the younger generation to get the skills and information that they need or get from the library. They are also going to try to get libraries to get advocacy groups to help with funding libraries as well.\n\nOn August 31, 1995 – There is a public school library that is banning books from their classrooms because of the content of some of the books. \"The liberal advocacy group said that there were 338 attempts to remove or restrict access to a book and 169 attempts were successful. Most of the books that were being challenged are due to the fact that they have profanity, violence or sexual scenes.\" (Milwaukee Journal)\n\nAug of 1998, \"The National Multiple Sclerosis Society has a library that they lend library materials that they send home with postage paid return envelope. They also have materials for people that are visually impaired.\" (Cedartown Standard)\n\nIn 2003, public libraries American bookstores are required by the Patriot Act' Section 215 to surrender to the FBI lists of books or other materials the customers has accessed. The ALA's code Ethics says to \"resist all efforts to censor library materials and to protect each library user's right to privacy and confidentiality with respect to information sought or received and resources consulted, borrowed, acquired or transmitted.\" (David H. Price)\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, The American Baseball League and ALA have joined together to get fans of all \"different ages to participate in their contest about online baseball trivia competition.\" This competition of baseball trivia is to being awareness to \"the 21st Century literacy skills such as using computers and other media and knowing how to find evaluate and use information.\" (PR Newswire) Also this game hopefully challenges the participants to get more familiar with the library by answering different kinds of baseball questions.\n\nIn 2008, The Gates Foundation gave 6.9 Million dollars to help libraries that are struggling to have internet or faster internet to their patrons. This money will be split in two by \"6.1 Million going to a non-profit broadband advocacy group and the rest of the money going to ALA's office for Technology Policy.\" (David Chartier) This extra money that these businesses get from the Gates Foundation will help out tremendously with the huge increase in patrons using the libraries use of free internet access.\n\nIn 2009, Friends of Libraries U.S.A. (FOLUSA) and the Association for Library Trustees and Advocates (ALTA) join to become an expanded division of ALA known as ALTAFF, the Association of Library Trustees, Advocates, Friends and Foundations.\nFriends of the Library provide support through raising the budget of libraries by book sales and outreach. ALTAFF continues to fight for library and user rights, tackling such issues as youth access to internet content and censorship, such as with the sponsorship of Banned Book Week: Celebrating the Freedom to Read.\nPublic Libraries continue to use a variety of innovative ways to advertise and advocate the importance of their services for the community through Twitter, blogs, and Facebook and by offering services such as internet/wireless access to the availability of different forms of media.\n\nIn 2010, schools, filmmakers, and others are able to get the technology that they need to be able to help the people that are deaf or visually impaired and others to be able to see or hear movies, books or other materials. Just like the public libraries are able to provide some materials with other companies doing this will help people that are visually impaired or blind not to feel like they can't do anything since no other company provides the technology that they need besides libraries. Also e-readers will have an option to have the book or material on the e-reader read out loud to the person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38549693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38549693", "title": "István Hajnal", "text": "István Hajnal\n\nIstván Hajnal (3 July 1892 – 16 June 1956) was a Hungarian social historian and palaeographer. Hajnal has been characterised as \"perhaps the most prominent Hungarian palaeographer of [the twentieth] century.\" He had wide-ranging interests in medieval and modern history, including the history of technology, the history of communication, and the relation of history to sociology.\n\nHajnal was born in Nagykikinda, in the Kingdom of Hungary. In 1921 he gained his Privatdocent, and started teaching at the University of Budapest, where he was Professor of Modern History from 1930 to 1949. He became a corresponding member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1928, and was an Academician from 1939 to 1949. He was also an official at the Hungarian National Museum.\n\nIn the 1980s Hajnal's work, promoted by László Lakatos, \"suddenly burst into public consciousness as an oeuvre comparable with and compatible with the \"Annales\". The István Hajnal Circle [Hajnal István Kör], named after him, sponsors research into East Central European social history.\n\n"}
{"id": "47736082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47736082", "title": "Joel Rufino dos Santos", "text": "Joel Rufino dos Santos\n\nJoel Rufino dos Santos (1941 – 4 September 2015) was a Brazilian writer. He was born in 1941 in Rio de Janeiro. He died from complications from cardiac surgery on 4 September 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "21449325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21449325", "title": "Jonas Totoraitis", "text": "Jonas Totoraitis\n\nJonas Totoraitis (24 December 1872 – 21 June 1941) was a Roman Catholic priest and historian. \n\nTotoraitis studied at the Theological Seminary of Sejny. He went on to Freiburg University in Switzerland, where he published his doctoral dissertation on the life of King Mindaugas, \"Die Litauer unter dem König Mindowe bis zum Jahre 1263\", the first such work by a Lithuanian scholar. \n\nAfter returning to Lithuania he continued his historical researches and pastoral work, directed the Marian gymnasium in Marijampolė, and taught at Vytautas Magnus University. \n"}
{"id": "56256675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56256675", "title": "Judaica Ukrainica", "text": "Judaica Ukrainica\n\nJudaica Ukrainica is an international interdisciplinary peer-reviewed annual journal in Jewish history and culture. The languages of the journal are Ukrainian, English, and Russian. The journal was established in 2012 as a publication of the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy. Since 2015 it is also a journal of the Ukrainian Association for Jewish Studies.\n\nFounder and Editor-in-chief of the journal is Vitaly Chernoivanenko, Associate Professor of the History Department at the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, Co-Director of the NaUKMA’s Master Program in Jewish Studies, President of the Ukrainian Association for Jewish Studies. The Editorial Board of the journal includes Norman Golb (USA), (Poland, Ukraine), Yaroslav Hrytsak (Ukraine), Serhiy Kvit (Ukraine), (Ukraine, Poland), (Israel), (Canada), Shaul Stampfer (Israel), Natalia Yakovenko (Ukraine).\n\nAfter the submission the manuscripts go through the blind peer-review process. \"Judaica Ukrainica\" accepts original papers, previously unpublished in other journals.\n\nThe annual journal includes general sections that cover different variety of subfields of Jewish Studies: Biblical Studies, Jewish Thought, Ukrainian-Jewish Discourses, Jewish Art, Source Publications. Every volume contains the Book Reviews section. Occasionally the special issues are published. The 2017 volume was dedicated to the Centennial of the 1917 Revolution and included primarily articles on the fate of the Ukrainian Jews in revolutionary epoch. .\n\nThe journal publishes the scholarly contributions by the researches from Ukraine, Israel, the Netherlands, Russia, the USA etc. \n"}
{"id": "1183016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183016", "title": "Kōkoku", "text": "Kōkoku\n\nKōkoku (興国) was a Japanese era of the Southern Court during the Era of Northern and Southern Courts after Engen and before Shōhei, lasting from April 1340 to December 1346. The emperor in Kyoto was . Go-Kōgon's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time-frame was .\n\nDuring the Meiji period, an Imperial decree dated March 3, 1911 established that the legitimate reigning monarchs of this period were the direct descendants of Emperor Go-Daigo through Emperor Go-Murakami, whose had been established in exile in Yoshino, near Nara.\n\nUntil the end of the Edo period, the militarily superior pretender-Emperors supported by the Ashikaga shogunate had been mistakenly incorporated in Imperial chronologies despite the undisputed fact that the Imperial Regalia were not in their possession.\n\nThis illegitimate had been established in Kyoto by Ashikaga Takauji.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1091460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091460", "title": "Kōshō", "text": "Kōshō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22216173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22216173", "title": "Land of Punt", "text": "Land of Punt\n\nThe Land of Punt (Egyptian: \"pwnt\"; alternate Egyptological readings Pwene(t)) was an ancient kingdom. A trading partner of Egypt, it was known for producing and exporting gold, aromatic resins, blackwood, ebony, ivory, and wild animals. The region is known from ancient Egyptian records of trade expeditions to it. It is possible that it corresponds to Opone as later known by the ancient Greeks, while some biblical scholars have identified it with the biblical land of Put.\n\nAt times Punt is referred to as \"Ta netjer\" (\"tꜣ nṯr\"), the \"Land of the God\". The exact location of Punt is still debated by historians. Most scholars today believe Punt was situated to the southeast of Egypt, most likely in the coastal region of modern Djibouti, Eritrea, northeast Ethiopia, Somalia, and the Red Sea littoral of Sudan. It is also possible that the territory covered both the Horn of Africa and Southern Arabia. Puntland, the Somali administrative region situated at the extremity of the Horn of Africa, is named in reference to the Land of Punt.\n\nThe earliest recorded ancient Egyptian expedition to Punt was organized by Pharaoh Sahure of the Fifth Dynasty (25th century BC). However, gold from Punt is recorded as having been in Egypt as early as the time of Pharaoh Khufu of the Fourth Dynasty.\n\nSubsequently, there were more expeditions to Punt in the Sixth, Eleventh, Twelfth and Eighteenth dynasties of Egypt. In the Twelfth Dynasty, trade with Punt was celebrated in popular literature in the \"Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor\".\n\nIn the reign of Mentuhotep III (11th dynasty, ca. 2000 BC), an officer named Hannu organized one or more voyages to Punt, but it is uncertain whether he personally traveled on these expeditions. Trading missions of the 12th dynasty pharaohs Senusret I, Amenemhat II and Amenemhat IV had also successfully navigated their way to and from the mysterious land of Punt.\n\nIn the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt, Hatshepsut built a Red Sea fleet to facilitate trade between the head of the Gulf of Aqaba and points south as far as Punt to bring mortuary goods to Karnak in exchange for Nubian gold. Hatshepsut personally made the most famous ancient Egyptian expedition that sailed to Punt. During the reign of Queen Hatshepsut in the 15th century BC, ships regularly crossed the Red Sea in order to obtain bitumen, copper, carved amulets, naptha and other goods transported overland and down the Dead Sea to Elat at the head of the gulf of Aqaba where they were joined with frankincense and myrrh coming north both by sea and overland along trade routes through the mountains running north along the east coast of the Red Sea.\n\nA report of that five-ship voyage survives on reliefs in Hatshepsut's mortuary temple at Deir el-Bahri. Throughout the temple texts, Hatshepsut \"maintains the fiction that her envoy\" Chancellor Nehsi, who is mentioned as the head of the expedition, had travelled to Punt \"in order to extract tribute from the natives\" who admit their allegiance to the Egyptian pharaoh. In reality, Nehsi's expedition was a simple trading mission to a land, Punt, which was by this time a well-established trading post. Moreover, Nehsi's visit to Punt was not inordinately brave since he was \"accompanied by at least five shiploads of [Egyptian] marines\" and greeted warmly by the chief of Punt and his immediate family. The Puntites \"traded not only in their own produce of incense, ebony and short-horned cattle, but [also] in goods from other African states including gold, ivory and animal skins.\" According to the temple reliefs, the Land of Punt was ruled at that time by King Parahu and Queen Ati. This well illustrated expedition of Hatshepsut occurred in Year 9 of the female pharaoh's reign with the blessing of the god Amun:\nWhile the Egyptians \"were not particularly well versed in the hazards of sea travel, and the long voyage to Punt, must have seemed something akin to a journey to the moon for present-day explorers...the rewards of [obtaining frankincense, ebony and myrrh] clearly outweighed the risks.\" Hatshepsut's 18th dynasty successors, such as Thutmose III and Amenhotep III also continued the Egyptian tradition of trading with Punt. The trade with Punt continued into the start of the 20th dynasty before terminating prior to the end of Egypt's New Kingdom. Papyrus Harris I, a contemporary Egyptian document that detailed events that occurred in the reign of the early 20th dynasty king Ramesses III, includes an explicit description of an Egyptian expedition's return from Punt:\nAfter the end of the New Kingdom period, Punt became \"an unreal and fabulous land of myths and legends.\" However, Egyptians continued to compose love songs about Punt, \"When I hold my love close, and her arms steal around me, I'm like a man translated to Punt, or like someone out in the reedflats, when the world suddenly bursts into flower.\" \n\nAt times, the ancient Egyptians called Punt \"Ta netjer\" (\"tꜣ nṯr\"), meaning \"God's Land\". This referred to the fact that it was among the regions of the Sun God, that is, the regions located in the direction of the sunrise, to the East of Egypt. These eastern regions' resources included products used in temples, notably incense. Older literature (and current non-mainstream literature) maintained that the label \"God's Land\", when interpreted as \"Holy Land\" or \"Land of the gods/ancestors\", meant that the ancient Egyptians viewed the Land of Punt as their ancestral homeland. W. M. Flinders Petrie believed that the Dynastic Race came from or through Punt and that \"Pan, or Punt, was a district at the south end of the Red Sea, which probably embraced both the African and Arabian shores.\" Moreover, E. A. Wallis Budge stated that \"Egyptian tradition of the Dynastic Period held that the aboriginal home of the Egyptians was Punt...\". However, the term Ta netjer was not only applied to Punt, located southeast of Egypt, but also to regions of Asia east and northeast of Egypt, such as Lebanon, which was the source of wood for temples.\n\nE. A. Wallis Budge stated that \"Egyptian tradition of the Dynastic Period held that the aboriginal home of the Egyptians was Punt...\". \nThe term was not only applied to Punt, located southeast of Egypt, but also to regions of Asia east and northeast of Egypt, such as Lebanon, which was the source of wood for temples.\n\nOn the murals of the Hatshepsut temple at Deir el-Bahri, the King and Queen of Punt are depicted along with their retinue. Due to her unusual appearance, the Queen was sometimes hypothesized to have had advanced steatopygia or elephantiasis. However, she is now clinically recognized as having likely had the Queen of Punt syndrome, a suite of conditions that include familial obesity, Launois Bensaude lipomatosis, Dercum disease, neurofibromatosis, congenital lipodystrophy, achondroplasia, X-linked hypophosphatemia, and Proteus syndrome.\n\nThe majority opinion places Punt in Northeastern Africa, based on the fact that the products of Punt (as depicted in the Hatshepsut illustrations) were abundantly found in the Horn of Africa but were less common or sometimes absent in Arabia. These products included gold and aromatic resins such as myrrh, frankincense, and ebony; the wild animals depicted in Punt included giraffes, baboons, hippotamuses, and leopards. Says Richard Pankhurst: \"[Punt] has been identified with territory on both the Arabian and the Horn of Africa coasts. Consideration of the articles that the Egyptians obtained from Punt, notably gold and ivory, suggests, however, that these were primarily of African origin. ... This leads us to suppose that the term Punt probably applied more to African than Arabian territory.\"\n\nDimitri Meeks disagrees with this view and points to ancient inscriptions that locate Punt in the western coast of the Arabian Peninsula, from the Gulf of Aqaba to Yemen, he has written that \"Texts locating Punt beyond doubt to the south are in the minority, but they are the only ones cited in the current consensus about the location of the country. Punt, we are told by the Egyptians, is situated – in relation to the Nile Valley – both to the north, in contact with the countries of the Near East of the Mediterranean area, and also to the east or south-east, while its furthest borders are far away to the south. Only the Arabian Peninsula satisfies all these indications.\" \nIn 2010, a genetic study was conducted on the mummified remains of baboons that were brought back from Punt by the ancient Egyptians. Led by a research team from the Egyptian Museum and the University of California, Santa Cruz, the scientists used oxygen isotope analysis to examine hairs from two baboon mummies that had been preserved in the British Museum. One of the baboons had distorted isotopic data, so the other's oxygen isotope values were compared to those of modern-day baboon specimens from regions of interest. The researchers at first found that the mummies most closely matched modern specimens seen in Eritrea and Ethiopia as opposed to those in neighboring Somalia, with the Ethiopian specimens \"basically due west from Eritrea\". The team did not have the opportunity to compare the mummies with baboons in Yemen. The scientists believed that such an analysis would yield similar results since, according to them, regional isotopic maps suggest that baboons in Yemen would closely resemble those in Somalia. Professor Dominy, one of the lead researchers, concluded from this that \"we think Punt is a sort of circumscribed region that includes eastern Ethiopia and all of Eritrea.\" In 2015, the scientists conducted a follow-up study to confirm their initial findings, and concluded that \"our results reveal a high likelihood match with eastern Somalia and the Eritrea-Ethiopia corridor, suggesting that this region was the source of Papio hamadryas exported to Ancient Egypt.\"\nIn June 2018, Polish archaeologists who have been conducting research in The Temple of Hatshepsut since 1961 discovered the only depiction of a secretary bird (\"Sagittarius serpentarius\") known from ancient Egypt in the Bas-reliefs from the Portico of Punt that depicted the great Pharaonic expedition to the Land of Punt. The secretary bird lives only in the African open grasslands and savannah, it is listed among the birds found in Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia, the bird is not found in Arabia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064396", "title": "Leigh Ann Hester", "text": "Leigh Ann Hester\n\nLeigh Ann Hester (born 12 January 1982) is a United States Army National Guard soldier. While assigned to the 617th Military Police Company, a Kentucky Army National Guard unit out of Richmond, Kentucky, Hester received the Silver Star for her heroic actions on 20 March 2005 during an enemy ambush on a supply convoy near the town of Salman Pak, Iraq. \n\nHester is the first female U.S. Army soldier to receive the Silver Star since World War II and the first ever to be cited for valor in close quarters combat.\n\nHester enlisted in the U.S. Army in April 2001.\n\nIn Iraq, Hester's military police squad, consisting of eight men and two women in three Humvees, were shadowing a 30-truck supply convoy when approximately 50 insurgent fighters ambushed the convoy with AK-47, RPK machine gun fire, and rocket propelled grenades (RPG). The squad moved to the side of the road, flanking the insurgents and cutting off their escape route. Hester maneuvered her fire team through the kill zone and into a flanking position, where her squad leader, Staff Sergeant Timothy F. Nein, and she assaulted a trench line with hand grenades and M203 grenade launcher rounds. Nein and Hester assaulted and cleared two trenches. During the 25-minute firefight, Hester killed 3 insurgents.\n\nWhen the battle was over, 27 insurgents were dead, six were wounded, and one captured. Sergeants Nein and Hester were both awarded the Silver Star. Nein's medal was later upgraded to the Distinguished Service Cross.\n\nAlso awarded the Silver Star in this ambush was Specialist Jason Mike, a platoon medic who took up and simultaneously fired an M4 carbine and M249 SAW light machine gun in defense of his comrades.\n\nHester later transferred to the Tennessee Army National Guard.\n\nHester took a brief break from the U.S. Army in 2009, and worked as an officer for a civilian law enforcement agency in a Nashville, Tennessee suburb. However, she returned to the military a short while later, in late 2010.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2014, she served as an instructor at the 117th Regional Training Institute Military Police School. In 2014, she deployed to Afghanistan for 18 months as a Cultural Support Team member. Hester has since been promoted to the rank of sergeant first class. In 2017, Hester deployed to Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands as part of the response to Hurricane Maria. Hester's military police company provided law enforcement support to the U.S. Virgin Islands Police.\n"}
{"id": "43080787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43080787", "title": "Long steam tricycle", "text": "Long steam tricycle\n\nThe Long steam tricycle appears to be one of the earliest preserved examples of a steam tricycle, built by George A. Long around 1880 and patented in 1883. One example was built, which after some years of use was dismantled and the parts dispersed. In 1946, one John H. Bateman, with assistance from the 96-year-old Long, reassembled the machine, which is now on display at the Smithsonian Institution. The example at the Smithsonian has been noted as the \"oldest completely operable self-propelled road vehicle in the museum\".\n\nIn 2004–2010, the item was displayed at Blackhawk Museum in northern California.\n\nSpecifications in the infobox to the right are from the Smithsonian Institution \"America on the Move\" collection.\n\nSteering the two front wheels was accomplished via two independent tillers which would have made simultaneous steering and control of the brake levers difficult for a single individual.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7781468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7781468", "title": "Moritz Brosch", "text": "Moritz Brosch\n\nMoritz Brosch (7 April 1829 – 14 July 1907) was a German Bohemian historian and professional English scholar. He was born on 7 April 1829 in Prague, Bohemia, Austrian Empire which is now in the Czech Republic. He was educated in Prague and Vienna, and became a journalist. Later he devoted himself to historical study, and he died on 14 July 1907 at Venice, where he had resided for over thirty years.\n\nTo the series \"Geschichte der europäischen Staaten\" Brosch contributed \"England 1509–1550\" (6 vols., Gotha, 1884–1899), a continuation of the work of J.M. Lappenberg and R. Pauli, and \"Der Kirchenstaat\" (Gotha, 1880–1882). He gave further proof of his interest in English history by writing \"Lord Bolingbroke und die Whigs und Tories seiner Zeit\" (Frankfort, 1883), and \"Oliver Cromwell und die puritanische Revolution\" (Frankfort, 1886). He also wrote \"Julius II. und die Gründung des Kirchenstaats\" (Gotha, 1878), while one of his last pieces of work was to contribute a chapter on \"The height of the Ottoman power\" to vol. iii of the \"Cambridge Modern History\" (1904).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21983", "title": "New Latin", "text": "New Latin\n\nNew Latin (also called Neo-Latin or Modern Latin)\nwas a revival in the use of Latin in original, scholarly, and scientific works between 1375 and 1900. Modern scholarly and technical nomenclature, such as in zoological and botanical taxonomy and international scientific vocabulary, draws extensively from New Latin vocabulary. In such use, New Latin is often viewed as still existing and subject to new word formation. As a language for full expression in prose or poetry, however, it is often distinguished from its successor, Contemporary Latin.\n\nClassicists use the term \"Neo-Latin\" to describe the Latin that developed in Renaissance Italy as a result of renewed interest in classical civilization in the 14th and 15th centuries.\n\nNeo-Latin also describes the use of the Latin language for any purpose, scientific or literary, during and after the Renaissance. The beginning of the period cannot be precisely identified; however, the spread of secular education, the acceptance of humanistic literary norms, and the wide availability of Latin texts following the invention of printing, mark the transition to a new era of scholarship at the end of the 15th century. The end of the New Latin period is likewise indeterminate, but Latin as a regular vehicle of communicating ideas became rare after the first few decades of the 19th century, and by 1900 it survived primarily in international scientific vocabulary and taxonomy. The term \"New Latin\" came into widespread use towards the end of the 1890s among linguists and scientists.\n\nNew Latin was, at least in its early days, an international language used throughout Catholic and Protestant Europe, as well as in the colonies of the major European powers. This area consisted of most of Europe, including Central Europe and Scandinavia; its southern border was the Mediterranean Sea, with the division more or less corresponding to the modern eastern borders of Finland, the Baltic states, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Croatia.\n\nRussia's acquisition of Kiev in the later 17th century introduced the study of Latin to Russia. Nevertheless, the use of Latin in Orthodox eastern Europe did not reach high levels due to their strong cultural links to the cultural heritage of Ancient Greece and Byzantium, as well as Greek and Old Church Slavonic languages.\n\nThough Latin and New Latin are considered extinct (having no native speakers), large parts of their vocabulary have seeped into English and several Germanic languages. In the case of English, about 60% of the lexicon can trace its origin to Latin, thus many English speakers can recognize New Latin terms with relative ease as cognates are quite common.\n\nNew Latin was inaugurated by the triumph of the humanist reform of Latin education, led by such writers as Erasmus, More, and Colet. Medieval Latin had been the practical working language of the Roman Catholic Church, taught throughout Europe to aspiring clerics and refined in the medieval universities. It was a flexible language, full of neologisms and often composed without reference to the grammar or style of classical (usually pre-Christian) authors. The humanist reformers sought both to purify Latin grammar and style, and to make Latin applicable to concerns beyond the ecclesiastical, creating a body of Latin literature outside the bounds of the Church. Attempts at reforming Latin use occurred sporadically throughout the period, becoming most successful in the mid-to-late 19th century.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation (1520–1580), though it removed Latin from the liturgies of the churches of Northern Europe, may have advanced the cause of the new secular Latin. The period during and after the Reformation, coinciding with the growth of printed literature, saw the growth of an immense body of New Latin literature, on all kinds of secular as well as religious subjects.\n\nThe heyday of New Latin was its first two centuries (1500–1700), when in the continuation of the Medieval Latin tradition, it served as the lingua franca of science, education, and to some degree diplomacy in Europe. Classic works such as Newton's Principia Mathematica (1687) were written in the language. Throughout this period, Latin was a universal school subject, and indeed, the pre-eminent subject for elementary education in most of Europe and other places of the world that shared its culture. All universities required Latin proficiency (obtained in local grammar schools) to obtain admittance as a student. Latin was an official language of Poland—recognised and widely used between the 9th and 18th centuries, commonly used in foreign relations and popular as a second language among some of the nobility.\n\nThrough most of the 17th century, Latin was also supreme as an international language of diplomatic correspondence, used in negotiations between nations and the writing of treaties, e.g. the peace treaties of Osnabrück and Münster (1648). As an auxiliary language to the local vernaculars, New Latin appeared in a wide variety of documents, ecclesiastical, legal, diplomatic, academic, and scientific. While a text written in English, French, or Spanish at this time might be understood by a significant cross section of the learned, only a Latin text could be certain of finding someone to interpret it anywhere between Lisbon and Helsinki.\n\nAs late as the 1720s, Latin was still used conversationally, and was serviceable as an international auxiliary language between people of different countries who had no other language in common. For instance, the Hanoverian king George I of Great Britain (reigned 1714–1727), who had no command of spoken English, communicated in Latin with his Prime Minister Robert Walpole, who knew neither German nor French.\n\nBy about 1700, the growing movement for the use of national languages (already found earlier in literature and the Protestant religious movement) had reached academia, and an example of the transition is Newton's writing career, which began in New Latin and ended in English (e.g. \"Opticks\", 1704). A much earlier example is Galileo c. 1600, some of whose scientific writings were in Latin, some in Italian, the latter to reach a wider audience. By contrast, while German philosopher Christian Wolff (1679–1754) popularized German as a language of scholarly instruction and research, and wrote some works in German, he continued to write primarily in Latin, so that his works could more easily reach an international audience (e.g., \"Philosophia moralis,\" 1750–53).\n\nLikewise, in the early 18th century, French replaced Latin as a diplomatic language, due to the commanding presence in Europe of the France of Louis XIV. At the same time, some (like King Frederick William I of Prussia) were dismissing Latin as a useless accomplishment, unfit for a man of practical affairs. The last international treaty to be written in Latin was the Treaty of Vienna in 1738; after the War of the Austrian Succession (1740–48) international diplomacy was conducted predominantly in French.\n\nA diminishing audience combined with diminishing production of Latin texts pushed Latin into a declining spiral from which it has not recovered. As it was gradually abandoned by various fields, and as less written material appeared in it, there was less of a practical reason for anyone to bother to learn Latin; as fewer people knew Latin, there was less reason for material to be written in the language. Latin came to be viewed as esoteric, irrelevant, and too difficult. As languages like French, German, and English became more widely known, use of a 'difficult' auxiliary language seemed unnecessary—while the argument that Latin could expand readership beyond a single nation was fatally weakened if, in fact, Latin readers did not compose a majority of the intended audience.\n\nAs the 18th century progressed, the extensive literature in Latin being produced at the beginning slowly contracted. By 1800 Latin publications were far outnumbered, and often outclassed, by writings in the modern languages. Latin literature lasted longest in very specific fields (e.g. botany and zoology) where it had acquired a technical character, and where a literature available only to a small number of learned individuals could remain viable. By the end of the 19th century, Latin in some instances functioned less as a language than as a code capable of concise and exact expression, as for instance in physicians' prescriptions, or in a botanist's description of a specimen. In other fields (e.g. anatomy or law) where Latin had been widely used, it survived in technical phrases and terminology. The perpetuation of Ecclesiastical Latin in the Roman Catholic Church through the 20th century can be considered a special case of the technicalizing of Latin, and the narrowing of its use to an elite class of readers.\n\nBy 1900, creative Latin composition, for purely artistic purposes, had become rare. Authors such as Arthur Rimbaud and Max Beerbohm wrote Latin verse, but these texts were either school exercises or occasional pieces. The last survivals of New Latin to convey non-technical information appear in the use of Latin to cloak passages and expressions deemed too indecent (in the 19th century) to be read by children, the lower classes, or (most) women. Such passages appear in translations of foreign texts and in works on folklore, anthropology, and psychology, e.g. Krafft-Ebing's \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" (1886).\n\nLatin as a language held a place of educational pre-eminence until the second half of the 19th century. At that point its value was increasingly questioned; in the 20th century, educational philosophies such as that of John Dewey dismissed its relevance. At the same time, the philological study of Latin appeared to show that the traditional methods and materials for teaching Latin were dangerously out of date and ineffective.\n\nIn secular academic use, however, New Latin declined sharply and then continuously after about 1700. Although Latin texts continued to be written throughout the 18th and into the 19th century, their number and their scope diminished over time. By 1900, very few new texts were being created in Latin for practical purposes, and the production of Latin texts had become little more than a hobby for Latin enthusiasts.\n\nAround the beginning of the 19th century came a renewed emphasis on the study of Classical Latin as the spoken language of the Romans of the 1st centuries BC and AD. This new emphasis, similar to that of the Humanists but based on broader linguistic, historical, and critical studies of Latin literature, led to the exclusion of Neo-Latin literature from academic studies in schools and universities (except for advanced historical language studies); to the abandonment of New Latin neologisms; and to an increasing interest in the reconstructed Classical pronunciation, which displaced the several regional pronunciations in Europe in the early 20th century.\n\nCoincident with these changes in Latin instruction, and to some degree motivating them, came a concern about lack of Latin proficiency among students. Latin had already lost its privileged role as the core subject of elementary instruction; and as education spread to the middle and lower classes, it tended to be dropped altogether. By the mid-20th century, even the trivial acquaintance with Latin typical of the 19th-century student was a thing of the past.\n\nEcclesiastical Latin, the form of New Latin used in the Roman Catholic Church, remained in use throughout the period and after. Until the Second Vatican Council of 1962–65 all priests were expected to have competency in it, and it was studied in Catholic schools. It is today still the official language of the Church, and all Catholic priests of the Latin liturgical rites are required by canon law to have competency in the language. Use of Latin in the Mass, largely abandoned through the later 20th century, has recently seen a resurgence, due in large part to Pope Benedict XVI's motu proprio Summorum Pontificum and its use by traditional Catholic priests and their organizations.\n\nNew Latin is also the source of the biological system of binomial nomenclature and classification of living organisms devised by Carolus Linnæus, although the rules of the ICZN allow the construction of names that deviate considerably from historical norms. (See also classical compounds.) Another continuation is the use of Latin names for the surface features of planets and planetary satellites (planetary nomenclature), originated in the mid-17th century for selenographic toponyms. New Latin has also contributed a vocabulary for specialized fields such as anatomy and law; some of these words have become part of the normal, non-technical vocabulary of various European languages.\n\nNew Latin had no single pronunciation, but a host of local variants or dialects, all distinct both from each other and from the historical pronunciation of Latin at the time of the Roman Republic and Roman Empire. As a rule, the local pronunciation of Latin used sounds identical to those of the dominant local language; the result of a concurrently evolving pronunciation in the living languages and the corresponding spoken dialects of Latin. Despite this variation, there are some common characteristics to nearly all of the dialects of New Latin, for instance:\n\nThe regional dialects of New Latin can be grouped into families, according to the extent to which they share common traits of pronunciation. The major division is between Western and Eastern family of New Latin. The Western family includes most Romance-speaking regions (France, Spain, Portugal, Italy) and the British Isles; the Eastern family includes Central Europe (Germany and Poland), Eastern Europe (Russia and Ukraine) and Scandinavia (Denmark, Sweden).\n\nThe Western family is characterized, \"inter alia\", by having a front variant of the letter \"g\" before the vowels \"æ, e, i, œ, y\" and also pronouncing \"j\" in the same way (except in Italy). In the Eastern Latin family, \"j\" is always pronounced , and \"g\" had the same sound (usually ) in front of both front and back vowels; exceptions developed later in some Scandinavian countries.\n\nThe following table illustrates some of the variation of New Latin consonants found in various countries of Europe, compared to the Classical Latin pronunciation of the 1st centuries BC-AD. In Eastern Europe, the pronunciation of Latin was generally similar to that shown in the table below for German, but usually with for \"z\" instead of .\n\nNew Latin texts are primarily found in early printed editions, which present certain features of spelling and the use of diacritics distinct from the Latin of antiquity, medieval Latin manuscript conventions, and representations of Latin in modern printed editions.\n\nIn spelling, New Latin, in all but the earliest texts, distinguishes the letter \"u\" from \"v\" and \"i\" from \"j\". In older texts printed down to c. 1630, \"v\" was used in initial position (even when it represented a vowel, e.g. in \"vt\", later printed \"ut\") and \"u\" was used elsewhere, e.g. in \"nouus\", later printed \"novus\". By the mid-17th century, the letter \"v\" was commonly used for the consonantal sound of Roman V, which in most pronunciations of Latin in the New Latin period was (and not ), as in \"vulnus\" \"wound\", \"corvus\" \"crow\". Where the pronunciation remained , as after \"g\", \"q\" and \"s\", the spelling \"u\" continued to be used for the consonant, e.g. in \"lingua\", \"qualis\", and \"suadeo\".\n\nThe letter \"j\" generally represented a consonantal sound (pronounced in various ways in different European countries, e.g. , , , ). It appeared, for instance, in \"jam\" \"already\" or \"jubet\" \"orders\" (earlier spelled \"iam\" and \"iubet\").\nIt was also found between vowels in the words \"ejus\", \"hujus\", \"cujus\" (earlier spelled \"eius, huius, cuius\"), and pronounced as a consonant; likewise in such forms as \"major\" and \"pejor\". \"J\" was also used when the last in a sequence of two or more \"i\"'s, e.g. \"radij\" (now spelled \"radii\") \"rays\", \"alijs\" \"to others\", \"iij\", the Roman numeral 3; however, \"ij\" was for the most part replaced by \"ii\" by 1700.\n\nIn common with texts in other languages using the Roman alphabet, Latin texts down to c. 1800 used the letter-form \"ſ\" (the \"long s\") for \"s\" in positions other than at the end of a word; e.g. \"ipſiſſimus\".\n\nThe digraphs \"ae\" and \"oe\" were rarely so written (except when part of a word in all capitals, e.g. in titles, chapter headings, or captions) ; instead the ligatures \"æ\" and \"œ\" were used, e.g. \"Cæsar\", \"pœna\". More rarely (and usually in 16th- to early 17th-century texts) the e caudata is found substituting for either.\n\nThree kinds of diacritic were in common use: the acute accent ´, the grave accent `, and the circumflex accent ˆ. These were normally only marked on vowels (e.g. í, è, â); but see below regarding \"que\".\nThe acute accent marked a stressed syllable, but was usually confined to those where the stress was not in its normal position, as determined by vowel length and syllabic weight. In practice, it was typically found on the vowel in the syllable immediately preceding a final clitic, particularly \"que\" \"and\", \"ve\" \"or\" and \"ne\", a question marker; e.g. \"idémque\" \"and the same (thing)\". Some printers, however, put this acute accent over the \"q\" in the enclitic \"que\", e.g. \"eorumq́ue\" \"and their\". The acute accent fell out of favor by the 19th century.\n\nThe grave accent had various uses, none related to pronunciation or stress. It was always found on the preposition \"à\" (variant of \"ab\" \"by\" or \"from\") and likewise on the preposition \"è\" (variant of \"ex\" \"from\" or \"out of\"). It might also be found on the interjection \"ò\" \"O\". Most frequently, it was found on the last (or only) syllable of various adverbs and conjunctions, particularly those that might be confused with prepositions or with inflected forms of nouns, verbs, or adjectives. Examples include \"certè\" \"certainly\", \"verò\" \"but\", \"primùm\" \"at first\", \"pòst\" \"afterwards\", \"cùm\" \"when\", \"adeò\" \"so far, so much\", \"unà\" \"together\", \"quàm\" \"than\". In some texts the grave was found over the clitics such as \"que\", in which case the acute accent did not appear before them.\n\nThe circumflex accent represented metrical length (generally not distinctively pronounced in the New Latin period) and was chiefly found over an \"a\" representing an ablative singular case, e.g. \"eâdem formâ\" \"with the same shape\". It might also be used to distinguish two words otherwise spelled identically, but distinct in vowel length; e.g. \"hîc\" \"here\" differentiated from \"hic\" \"this\", \"fugêre\" \"they have fled\" (=\"fūgērunt\") distinguished from \"fugere\" \"to flee\", or \"senatûs\" \"of the senate\" distinct from \"senatus\" \"the senate\". It might also be used for vowels arising from contraction, e.g. \"nôsti\" for \"novisti\" \"you know\", \"imperâsse\" for \"imperavisse\" \"to have commanded\", or \"dî\" for \"dei\" or \"dii\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8619149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8619149", "title": "Patricia Ann Tracey", "text": "Patricia Ann Tracey\n\nPatricia Ann Tracey (born November 30, 1950) was the first American woman to be promoted to the rank of vice admiral. She retired as a vice admiral in 2004. She held the positions of chief of naval education and training (CNET) (1996–98), Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy (1998–2001), and director of navy staff from 2001 until the time of her retirement on October 1, 2004. At that time, she was also the all-time senior-ranking female officer in the United States military.\n\nTracey was born in The Bronx, New York. She graduated from the Academy of Mount St. Ursula High School in 1966 and graduated from The College of New Rochelle with a Bachelor of Arts degree in mathematics, completed Women's Officer Candidate School, and was commissioned as an ensign in the U.S. Navy in 1970 in what was then known as the General Unrestricted Line officer designator (110X). She later earned a master's degree, with distinction, in operations research from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California.\n\nHer initial assignment in the United States Navy was to the Naval Space Surveillance Systems in Dahlgren, Virginia where she qualified as a command center officer and orbital analyst. Following a tour on the staff of the Commander of the Pacific Fleet, she served at the Bureau of Naval Personnel as the placement officer for graduate education and service college students. From 1980 to 1982, Tracey served as an extended planning analyst in the Systems Analysis division on the Chief of Naval Operations’ staff. She served as executive officer of the Naval Recruiting District in Buffalo, New York, until 1984, where she was assigned as a manpower and personnel analyst in the Program Appraisal Division of the Chief of Naval Operations’ staff.\n\nHer first command tour was at the Naval Technical Training Center at Treasure Island, California, from 1986 to 1988, followed by a staff position with the Chief of Naval Personnel as the head of the Enlisted Plans and Community Management Branch. She served as commanding officer of Naval Station Long Beach, then the second largest homeport of the Pacific Fleet. Tracey became a Fellow with the Chief of Naval Operations Strategic Studies Group at the Naval War College in 1992. She was assigned as director for manpower and personnel on the staff of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, serving in this capacity from 1993 to 1995. She subsequently served from June 1995 to June 1996 as commander of the Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, home of a longstanding navy boot camp. Tracey was nominated for appointment to the grade of vice admiral and assignment as chief of naval education and training (CNET) and director of naval training, N7, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations in the Pentagon in May 1996. Tracey served in this position from 1996 to 1998. In September 1998, Tracey was assigned as deputy assistant secretary of Defense for Military Manpower and Personnel Policy, the Pentagon. In June 2001, Tracey was assigned as director, Navy Staff, N09B, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Pentagon. She retired from this billet on September 2, 2004.\n\nOn September 10, 1977, Tracey married fellow naval officer Richard Metzer. After her retirement from the military, she joined HP Enterprise Services in 2006 and was their vice president of homeland security and defense in March 2015.\n\nTracey's awards include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4132333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4132333", "title": "Prose of the Ottoman Empire", "text": "Prose of the Ottoman Empire\n\nRoughly speaking, the prose of the Ottoman Empire can be divided along the lines of two broad periods: early Ottoman prose, written prior to the 19th century CE and exclusively nonfictional in nature; and later Ottoman prose, which extended from the mid-19th century Tanzimat period of reform to the final fall of the Ottoman Empire in 1922, and in which prose fiction was first introduced.\n\nEarly Ottoman prose, before the 19th century CE, never developed to the extent that the contemporary Divan poetry did. A large part of the reason for this was that much prose of the time was expected to adhere to the rules of \"seci\", or rhymed prose, a type of writing descended from Arabic literature (\"saj'\") and which prescribed that between each adjective and noun in a sentence, there must be a rhyme.\n\nNevertheless, there was a long tradition of prose in the Ottoman Empire. This tradition was, for centuries, exclusively nonfictional in nature—the fiction tradition was limited to narrative poetry. A number of such nonfictional prose genres developed:\n\n"}
{"id": "3541940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3541940", "title": "Robert P. Murphy", "text": "Robert P. Murphy\n\nRobert Patrick Murphy (born 23 May 1976) is an American economist, consultant and author. He is an economist with the Institute for Energy Research (IER) specializing in climate change and a research fellow with the Independent Institute, He was a senior fellow in business and economic studies at the Pacific Research Institute, and he is a senior fellow at the Ludwig von Mises Institute. In addition to economic subjects, Murphy writes about, and has presented an online video class in, anarcho-capitalism on the Mises Institute website.\n\nMurphy is also noteworthy, and has been criticized by economists Brad DeLong and Paul Krugman for, repeatedly predicting that the quantitative easing practiced by the Federal Reserve in the late 2000s would create double-digit inflation and economic collapse—predictions that did not come to fruition. Murphy is a Christian, and has written articles expressing support for a literal interpretation of the Bible and skepticism of evolutionary theory.\n\nMurphy received a BA in economics at Hillsdale College in 1998 and a Ph.D. in economics at New York University in 2003. As explained by the Free Market Institute (FMI) website, \"In his role as a research assistant professor with the FMI, Dr. Murphy contributes original research to the Institute's ongoing research program, \"Research on the Origins of Economic Freedom and Prosperity\", and works closely with FMI graduate research assistants on their efforts to develop original research.\". Before to his employment at Texas Tech University, he was a visiting Assistant Professor at Hillsdale College, a visiting scholar at New York University, a Research Analyst at Laffer Associates, and a senior Fellow with the Pacific Research Institute. He is a Senior Economist with the Institute for Energy Research (IER) specializing in climate change and a research fellow with the Independent Institute, He is an associated scholar at the Ludwig von Mises Institute, and a Senior Fellow with the Fraser Institute in Canada\n\nHe also is the president of Consulting By RPM, where he specializes in economic analysis for a lay audience. In addition to economic subjects, Murphy writes about and has presented an online video class on an introduction to anarcho-capitalism, made available through Ludwig von Mises Institute website. Murphy discussed climate change and energy-related topics, on behalf of IER, in testimony before a US Congressional committee.\n\nDr. Murphy has written and co-written multiple books. His most recently published book is \"Choice: Cooperation, Enterprise, and Human Action\" (Independent Institute, 2015). He also co-authored \"Primal Prescription\" with Doug McGuff, MD regarding healthcare in the United States. He wrote a textbook for junior high students titled \"Lessons for the Young Economist\" (Mises Institute 2010), which is offered free of charge.\n\nMurphy has also written numerous works for lay audiences, including study guides to works of Ludwig von Mises and Murray Rothbard. Murphy is author of the 2007 book \"The Politically Incorrect Guide to Capitalism\". Murphy's Mises Institute colleague Gene Epstein wrote in \"Barron's Magazine\" that \"Murphy makes a compelling case for the unfettered free market, or what his intellectual antagonists would call \"free-market fundamentalism\", but writes Murphy is sometimes too irreverent. Murphy's book, \"The Politically Incorrect Guide to the Great Depression and the New Deal\", published in 2009, blamed the Depression on government policies.\n\nAdditionally, Murphy has written for \"The Washington Times\", \"Forbes\" and \"Barron's Magazine\". Murphy's writings have also been published in \"The American Journal of Economics and Sociology\", \"The Review of Austrian Economics\", the \"Quarterly Journal of Austrian Economics\" and the \"Journal of Private Enterprise\". He has written for \"The Freeman\", \"The American Conservative\" and LewRockwell.com. He previously wrote a column for both Townhall.com and Antiwar.com\n\nIn 2015, Murphy began \"Contra Krugman\", a weekly podcast, with New York Times Best-Selling author and historian Thomas Woods that critiques the New York Times columns of Nobel Prize winning economist Paul Krugman. The podcasts seek to teach economics \"by uncovering and dissecting the errors of Krugman.\"\n\nMurphy has been criticized by economists Brad DeLong and Paul Krugman for predicting that the quantitative easing practiced by the Federal Reserve in the late 2000s would create hyperinflation and economic ruin—predictions that did not come to fruition.\nIn 2009, Murphy discussed various economic policies of the Bush and Obama administrations, which he called \"incredible assaults on the private sector from the central government\". He stated that the policies of Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke and President Obama would lead to double-digit inflation with high unemployment and could facilitate the abandonment of the US Dollar by the end of the Obama Presidency. Murphy warned that soaring prices for gasoline and imported products sold at Wal-Mart might be blamed by Obama Administration officials on \"an attack on the Dollar by foreign speculators\" and used by them to replace the Dollar with the Amero or some other currency \"issued by a supranational organization\". Murphy urged investors to purchase an \"emergency stockpile\" of physical gold and silver, and predicted double-digit inflation. In July 2009, Murphy proclaimed that the economy would be \"in the toilet for a decade\" and predicted \"20+ percent price inflation.\"\n\nIn a series of articles on his personal website, Murphy states that he agreed to a bet that there would be a year/year increase in the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index of over 10% by 2013, and notes that he lost the bet.\n\nIn a column criticizing economists \"who stick with their ideology no matter how badly it performs in practice\", Paul Krugman noted that University of California, Berkeley Professor of Economics J. Bradford DeLong had attacked Murphy for \"predicting double-digit inflation for years but remain[ing] absolutely committed to his framework\" despite the predictions being unfulfilled. In December 2012 Krugman again addressed Murphy's failed inflation predictions, criticizing Murphy's belief that \"his failed inflation forecast is OK\" because it is attributable to \"huge deflationary downdraft that offset the inflationary impact of Fed expansion.\" Krugman wrote that if that was true, \"we should be hailing Ben Bernanke for preventing a catastrophic deflation.\" Murphy replied on his blog to Krugman and DeLong's criticisms, saying \"my price inflation wager has \"nothing\" to do with Austrian business cycle theory\" and that Krugman was using a \"macro model\" which does not apply to Austrian theory which relies on \"heterogeneous capital goods\" and artificially low interest rates distortion of investment flows into various sectors. He admitted he was not sure why his inflation prediction was wrong. In a May 2013 piece published by \"The American Conservative\", Murphy wrote about Krugman's predictions regarding fiscal austerity and the 2013 U.S. government budget sequestration.\n\nIn 2013 Murphy challenged Krugman to a debate and unnamed supporters of Murphy promised to donate $100,000 to a charity if Krugman would debate Murphy on economic policy issues. A promotional website was established for the challenge. Krugman called the proposed debate a \"public circus\" and stated \"Why should I dignify that totally-wrong doctrine — that doctrine that's gotten everything wrong — by giving them a platform?\"\n\nIn addition to opposing the War in Iraq, Murphy has been critical of neoconservatives and their interventionist foreign policy views, especially their views on economics.\n\nIn 2008 Murphy wrote in a column, in response to Michael Kinsley on libertarianism, that \"we shouldn't trust the government with military affairs after the Bush administration.\" In 2014 Murphy wrote that \"if Americans want a free society at home, then they must convince the U.S. government to give up its global empire.\" He goes on to state that the current aggressive U.S. foreign policy has been destructive to domestic liberties and concludes that \"if you allow your government to maintain an empire abroad, then you can't possibly expect a free and open society at home.\" In 2017 Murphy made the case that \"a free society will be far more defensible than a state-controlled analog, and by its very nature may avoid military conflict altogether because peaceful solutions are much more efficient.\"\n\nIn two LewRockwell.com articles entitled \"Well, I'll be a Monkey's Nephew\" and \"More Monkey Business\", Murphy expressed skepticism about evolution, asserting that he \"can literally prove evolution is false\" by pointing out that human beings act altruistically, which (in Murphy's view) cannot be explained by evolutionary motives. In another piece which discussed evolution, Murphy discussed the influence of his Christian faith on his views and defended \"those who subscribe to a literal interpretation of the Bible\". Murphy expressed, for instance, his belief in the Biblical story of Jonah and the Whale, asserting that \"I think it's possible that a human being could be swallowed by a whale and live for three days somewhere inside of it, with enough oxygen and without being digested\".\n\nMurphy is a Christian, and has stated in his writings that \"my ethical beliefs are informed by my Christian faith, and I am a firm believer in natural law.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11150813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11150813", "title": "Sentimentalism (literature)", "text": "Sentimentalism (literature)\n\nSentimentalism is a practice of being sentimental, and thus tending toward basing actions and reactions upon emotions and feelings, in preference to reason. \n\nAs a literary mode, sentimentalism has been a recurring aspect of world literature. Sentimentalism includes a variety of aspects in literature, such as sentimental poetry, the sentimental novel, and the German sentimentalist music movement, Empfindsamkeit. European literary sentimentalism arose during the Age of Enlightenment, partly as a response to sentimentalism in philosophy. In eighteenth-century England, the sentimental novel was a major literary genre.\n\nSentimentalism in philosophy and sentimentalism in literature are sometimes hard to distinguish. As the philosophical arguments developed, the literature soon tried to emulate by putting the philosophical into practice through narration and characters. As a result, it is common to observe both philosophical and literary movements simultaneously.\n\nPhilosophically, sentimentalism was often contrasted to rationalism. While 18th-century rationalism corresponded itself with the development of the analytic mind as the basis for acquiring truth, sentimentalism hinged upon an intrinsic human capacity to feel and how this leads to truth. For the sentimentalist this capacity was most important in morality (moral sense theory). Sentimentalists contended that where the rationalists believed morality was founded upon analytic principles (i.e. Immanuel Kant's \"Categorical Imperative\") these principles could not be adequately founded in the empirical nature of humans—such as observing a sad image or expressing a strong emotion physically. Therefore, one could not obtain a sound moral theory. However, by developing the moral sensibility and fine tuning the capacity to feel, a person could access a sound moral theory by building from an intrinsic human nature, which each person possessed. Sentimentalists were, thus, often seen as relating to the schools of humanism and empirical ethical intuitionism.\n\nSentimentalism asserted that over-shown feeling was not a weakness but rather showed one to be a moral person. Arising from religiously motivated empathy, it expanded to the other perceptions - for example, sensual love was no longer understood as a destructive passion (Vanitas) but rather as a basis of social institutions, as it was for Antoine Houdar de la Motte. Requited love was, as in serious opera (the Tragédie en musique or Opera seria), a symbol for a successful alliance between nations. The \"Lesesucht\" re-evaluated what was permitted literature, and the novel as a type of literature as versus drama. \n\nAround the middle of the century, sentimentalism set \"untouched\" nature against (courtly) civilization, as in the works of Jean Jacques Rousseau. In addition, Samuel Richardson's sentimental epistolary novel \"Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded\" (1740) had great literary influence.\n\nThe literary work often featured scenes of distress and tenderness, and the plot was arranged to advance emotions rather than action. The result was a valorization of \"fine feeling,\" displaying the characters as a model for refined, moral and emotional effect. Sentimentalism in literature was also often used as a medium through which authors could promote their own agendas—imploring readers to empathize with the problems they are dealing with in their books.\n\nFor example, in Laurence Sterne's novel, \"A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy\", the narrator is using the sentimental character Yorick as a device to critique the obligation of morality, whether it is sentimental or rational. \nThere is a scene early in the novel where Yorick meets a monk and refuses \"to give him a single sous [a penny].\" He feels discontent when he disregards what he senses he ought to do, even though he appears to obey \"better reason\" (4). Rationally, he disregards his sentimental obligation because \"there is no regular reasoning upon the ebbs and flows of our humours\" (6) [i.e. our emotions]. While he argues against the authority of sense, ultimately this sense creates discontent in his conscience. After the monk leaves empty handed, it is Yorick's \"heart\" that \"smote [him] the moment [the monk] shut the door\" (7). Accordingly, Yorick has \"behaved very ill\" (7). He has complied with his rational maxim, the justified action of his \"great claims\" argument (6). Yet he senses from the conscience of his sentimental nature that he has done wrong.\n\nIn continental Europe, one aspect of sentimentalism was \"Empfindsamkeit\". The sensitive style (German: \"empfindsamer Stil\") of music, developed in Germany, aimed to express \"true and natural\" feelings, in contrast to the baroque.\n\nThe origin of sentimentalism in this context was chiefly religious, with the emotionally coloured texts for the oratorios of Johann Sebastian Bach stream being typical examples. Empfindsamkeit is also known as secularized pietism because it frequently came with moralizing content that had increasingly broken free of church and religious ties. An important theorist of the movement was Jean Baptiste Dubos.\n\nThe musician and publisher Johann Christoph Bode translated Laurence Sterne's novel, \"A sentimental Journey Through France and Italy\", into German in 1768 under the title \"Yoriks empfindsame Reise\" - the translation was a great success. His word \"empfindsam\" or \"sensitive\" was a neologism that then became attached to Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and the whole literary period.\n\nGerman poets who verged on sentimentalism were Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock (1724–1803), Christian Fürchtegott Gellert (1715–1769) and Sophie de La Roche (1730–1807, the author of the first epistolary novel in German) and its influence may also be seen in Goethe's early work \"Die Leiden des jungen Werthers\" (1774), a high-point of Sturm und Drang.\n\nReligious sentimentalism has often been considered as inspiration for François-René de Chateaubriand and his creation of Romanticism, which was another literary genre that emerged late in the 18th Century. In popular literature, Empfindsamkeit was a common genre that continued into the 19th Century, and was found in serialised novels in periodicals such as \"Gartenlaube\". In a theatre sense, Empfindsamkeit was succeeded by rührstück or melodrama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "458099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458099", "title": "Simon Janashia", "text": "Simon Janashia\n\nSimon Janashia (; July 13, 1900 – November 5, 1947) was a Georgian historian and public figure. He was a professor of history and one of the founding members of the Georgian Academy of Sciences.\n\nJanashia was born in 1900, in Makvaneti in the southwestern Georgian province of Guria. His father, Nikoloz Janashia (1872-1918), was an educator and ethnographer, born in Abkhazia. In 1922, Simon Janashia graduated from the Tbilisi State University. From 1924 to 1947, he served as a lecturer (1924-1930), Associate Professor (1930-1935) and Professor (1935-1947) there. In 1941, he was one of the founders of the Georgian Academy of Sciences (GAS), and from 1941 to 1947, he was Vice-President of the Academy and Director of the Institute of History of the GAS. In 1943, Janashia was elected as a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union (now the Russian Academy of Science). In the 1940s, he organized archaeological excavations in Mtskheta and Armazi in eastern Georgia.\n\nJanashia's main fields of his research were the ethnogenesis of the Georgians and other Caucasian peoples, the history of feudalism in Georgia and the Caucasus, the history and archaeology of ancient Georgia, the history of Colchis and Caucasian Iberia, the history of Christianity in Georgia, and source studies of the history of Georgia and the Caucasus. He was an author of more than 100 scholarly works, including about 10 monographs. A full collection of Janashia's works was published in four volumes in Tbilisi between 1949 and 1968. Simon Janashia died in Tbilisi in 1947.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56160621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56160621", "title": "Solveig Jülich", "text": "Solveig Jülich\n\nSolveig Jülich is a Swedish historian of ideas, professor at the department of History of Science and Ideas at Uppsala University.\n\nSolveig Jülich holds a Ph.D in Technology and Social Change from Linköping University in 2002 for which she was awarded the Swedish History of Science Society award for dissertations the next year. She had previously received the Swedish History of Science Society award for articles in 1998. She was employed as Senior Lecturer for the undergraduate programme in Culture, Society, Media Production at Linköping University (2003 - 2006). She was Assistant Professor, funded by the Swedish Research Council, at the Department of Literature and History of Ideas at Stockholm University (2006 - 2010) before becoming Senior Lecturer in History of Ideas. In 2014, she joined the Department of History of Science and Ideas at Uppsala University.\nJülich’s research and teaching interests include Medical humanities, History of medicine and biomedicine, historical perspectives on ethics and value conflicts in medical research, and history of medicine’s visual and material culture.\n\nHer previous research projects have explored the introduction and reception of X-ray images, the interaction between medical science and media culture, and the making of the iconic images of embryos and foetuses by Swedish photographer Lennart Nilsson. She received the in 2003. At present she is responsible for the six-year research programme \"Medicine at the borders of life: Fetal research and the emergence of ethical controversy in Sweden\", funded by the Swedish Research Council. She is also a member of the steering group for the research programme “Science and modernisation in Sweden”, funded by Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg’s foundation and hosted by the Center for the History of Science at the Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "58976175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58976175", "title": "Strabane ambush", "text": "Strabane ambush\n\nThe Strabane Ambush was a British SAS ambush against a three man Provisional IRA (PIRA or IRA) unit. All members of the PIRA unit were killed in the ambush. \n\nStrabane was one the IRA's most deadly strong holds during The Troubles. Provisional IRA and Irish National Liberation Army Volunteers in Strabane carried out attack after attack against the British security forces, between 1971 and 1991 no fewer than 16 attacks were launched by Irish Republicans against British troops and RUC police which resulted in the death of at least one member of the British security forces in each of those attacks, the British Army and RUC bases in Strabane were constantly attacked with sniper fire, bombings, grenades, mortar attacks and RPG attacks. Strabane was once the most bombed town in Europe in proportion to its size, and was the most bombed town in Northern Ireland.\n\nA few weeks earlier in December 1984 the SAS carried out two infamous ambushes against the Provisional IRA Derry Brigade which killed four IRA volunteers, in the first in the Kesh ambush Kieran Fleming and another IRA volunteer was killed, four days later Kieran's cousin William Fleming and Danny Doherty were killed in another ambush.\n\nOn the 23 February 1985 a Provisional IRA active service unit while returning weapons or bringing new weapons to an arms cache in Plumbridge Road in Strabane were suddenly ambushed by British Army SAS unit and all three IRA volunteers were killed on the spot. Local witness said they heard that no warning to surrender was given by the SAS as the men entered a field which is when the SAS unit fired over 100 rounds at the Volunteers killing them instantly.\nThe Provisional IRA volunteers killed at Strabane were unit Commander Charles Breslin (21) and Michael Devine (22) and his brother David Devine (16). David Devine was the youngest IRA volunteer killed in the conflict by enemy forces.\n\nThis ambush was the first in a number of high-profile SAS and undercover soldier ambushes and operations, a year later the IRA's Fermanagh commander Seamus McElwaine was killed during a shoot out. in 1987 eight IRA volunteers from the Provisional IRA East Tyrone Brigade were killed in the Loughgall ambush, in 1988 three IRA Volunteers were killed during Operation Flavius in Gibraltar, in August of the same year three more IRA men were killed in the Ambush at Drumnakilly, in 1991 three more volunteers were killed in the Coagh ambush and finally in February 1992 the Clonoe ambush four IRA volunteers were killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34810117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34810117", "title": "Tantara ny Andriana eto Madagasikara", "text": "Tantara ny Andriana eto Madagasikara\n\nTantara ny Andriana eto Madagasikara (\"History of the Nobles in Madagascar\") is a book of the oral history of the Kingdom of Imerina in Madagascar, gathered and published by Father François Callet between 1878 and 1881. This collection of oral tradition about the history of the Merina Dynasty was originally written in Malagasy and published between 1878 and 1881. Callet summarized and translated it in French under the title \"Tantara ny Andriana (Histoire des rois)\" in 1908.\n\nMuch of what is known about the sovereigns of the Kingdom of Imerina comes from Father François Callet's book. \"Tantara ny Andriana\" constitutes the core material for the historians studying the Merina history, and ever since its publication has been commented upon, criticized and challenged by numerous historians from Madagascar, Europe and North America (see for example: Rasamimanana, 1930; Ravelojaona \"et al.,\" 1937; Ramilison, 1951; Kent, 1970; Délivré, 1974; Berg 1988; and Larson, 2000). The work is complemented by oral traditions of other tribes collected by Malagasy historians.\n\n"}
{"id": "34737892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34737892", "title": "The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture", "text": "The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture\n\nThe Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture is a trilogy of books by sociologist Manuel Castells: \"The Rise of the Network Society\" (1996), \"The Power of Identity\" (1997), and \"End of Millennium\" (1998). The second edition was heavily revised; volume one is 40 per cent different from the first edition.\n\n\"The Information Age\" is an account of the role of information in contemporary society. Manuel Castells describes the shift from an industrial society to an informational society, which started in the 1970s. This Network Society is structured around networks instead of individual actors, and works through a constant flow of information through technology. Castells emphasises the interrelationship of social, economic and political features of society, and argues that the 'network' is the defining feature that marks our current epoch.\n\nIn this volume Castells analyses the structural changes to the global economy that took place from the 1970s to 1990s. He describes the 'new economy', which he claims is based on 'a new mode of development, informationalism, of which networking is a critical attribute'. In this new 'Informational Economy' a firm's competitiveness is dependent on its knowledge of technology, information, and access to networks. The new economy is defined by a 'transformation of work and employment'. This concept implies that there is higher unemployment in countries where technology is scarce. The uneven development of new technology leads to 'social polarization and social exclusion'. This concept describes an increase in equality across nations due to globalization and an uneven distribution of technology, and thus networking opportunities and lower competitiveness.\n\nThis transition to an informational mode of development is enabled by the growth of information technology and changes in organizational structure based on networks. Castells examines statistical evidence of changes in work structure and labour patterns, and concludes that while the networked 'symbolic analyst' (or knowledge worker) may seek work globally, we cannot say that there is a true global labour force since the majority of workers are still geographically confined and immobile. Informationalism has not led to mass joblessness, but it has led to a structural change in the work force, that of instability: in highly developed countries, a majority of workers no longer have a traditional work pattern, but part-time and temporary employment has become the norm.\n\nCastells then discusses new media and communication technologies based around networks, arguing that they are contributing to a fundamental change in culture. The new development is a 'culture of real virtuality', which describes a culture that is organized around electronic media. He says that 'the \"space of flows\" and \"timeless time\" are the material foundations of a new culture', that of the network society. The concept of 'timeless time' refers to the collapsing of time in global informational networks, for example automated financial transactions.\n\n\nCastells, Manuel (1996, second edition, 2009). The Rise of the Network Society, The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture Vol. I. Malden, MA; Oxford, UK: Blackwell. .\n\nCastells, Manuel (1997, second edition, 2009). The Power of Identity, The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture Vol. II. Malden, MA; Oxford, UK: Blackwell. .\n\nCastells, Manuel (1998, second edition, 2010). End of Millennium, The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture Vol. III. Malden, MA; Oxford, UK: Blackwell. .\n\n"}
{"id": "8807881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8807881", "title": "Thomas Gordon (British Army officer)", "text": "Thomas Gordon (British Army officer)\n\nMajor-General Thomas Gordon (1788 – 20 April 1841) was a British army officer and historian. He is remembered for his role in the Greek War of Independence in the 1820s and 1830s and his \"History\" of the war published in 1833.\n\nHe was born at Cairness House to Charles Gordon of Buthlaw and Cairness in Lonmay, Aberdeenshire and his wife Christian, née Forbes of Ballogie. He was educated at Eton College and Brasenose College, Oxford.\n\nFrom 1808 to 1810 he served in the Scots Greys. In May 1810 he left service in the British Army for travel and on 26 August was well received in Ioannina by Ali Pasha, local governor for the Ottoman Empire. Between 1810 and 1812, his travels included Athens, Constantinople, Thessaloniki as well as parts of Anatolia, Persia and Barbary.\n\nIn 1813, he served as a captain on the staff of the Russian Army, and in November 1813 was in the army of Count von Walmoden at Pretzer in Mecklenburg. Early in 1814, he returned to his seat of Cairness House until 1815 when he went abroad again to Constantinople, where he married Barbara Kana (afterwards Baroness de Sedaiges).\n\nGordon returned to Greece in 1821 at the commencement of the Greek War of Independence. He served through the campaign of 1821 in the Morea in the Peloponnese as \"chef d’état major\" under Demetrios Ypsilantis. He took part in the siege of Tripolitza. After the capture, he strongly protested against the massacre by the Greeks of several thousand Turks there. On being ignored, he retired for a time from service.\n\nIn November 1822, the provisional Greek government at Hermione sent a letter asking him to return to them. He declined but joined the Greek committee in London (formed 8 March 1823) and contributed money and military supplies. He refused the committee’s invitation to go to Greece as one of three commissioners in charge of stores and funds stating that the Greeks were unwilling to submit to European discipline. As a committee member, he strongly supported the appointment of George Byron, 6th Baron Byron.\n\nEarly in 1824, a Greek deputation raised a loan in London and again unsuccessfully asked Gordon to return. In 1826, renewed representations from Greece and the Greek deputies in London persuaded him to return to promote unity and military discipline. He reached Nafplion in May 1826 and found that bitter dissentions among the Greeks had quenched even their animosity against the Turks. He was well received and arrived in time to prevent the disbanding of the regular corps.\n\nTowards the end of June, Rumeliots forced the government to seize $10,000 from Gordon to give to the Suliot \"Kapetanioi\" from Epirus. By the end of 1826, Gordon had spent all the public funds which the Greek deputies in London had entrusted to him.\n\nIn 1827, Gordon accepted the command of the expedition to Piraeus, with the rank of brigadier, his troops consisting of the corps of Ioannis Notaras, that of Ioannis Makrygiannis, the regulars, and the foreign volunteers. His aim was to relieve Athens, which was being blockaded. Gordon successfully landed his troops at Faliro “under the nose of Reshid Pasha”.\n\nHaving found that the Greeks besieged in the Acropolis were still able to hold out, Gordon wished to resign and only continued on condition of receiving supplies and being “entirely master of his own operations”. He remained in command of the troops at Faliro until the arrival in April of General Richard Church, who took over the supreme command.\n\nOn 16 April 1827, Church appointed Gordon director-general of the army. He probably continued to serve in this capacity until the Greek defeat of 6 May. Nevertheless, continued resistance, the success of the Battle of Navarino, and the backing of France, the Russian Empire and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland enabled the Kingdom of Greece to emerge with a northern frontier from Arta to Volos, but without Crete or Samos. In July 1827, Gordon returned to Scotland.\n\nGordon returned to Greece in 1828. While at Argos from 1828 to 1831 with his secretary James Robertson and the historian George Finlay, he worked on the site of the ruined Heraeum near Argos. Archaeological plans also included a proposal to form a joint stock company for the purchase of Epidaurus. Finlay also suggested that he might be president of the Greek national assembly, but Gordon had no such ambitions.\n\nWhile at Argos, Gordon collected both written and oral material for a history of the Greek revolution. He also built a magnificent mansion which was modelled on Cairness House although smaller. He returned to Cairness in 1831 and completed his book in 1833. It was acclaimed for its detail and accuracy.\n\nWith the arrival of Prince Otto of Wittelsbach as the new King of Greece, Gordon returned to Greece in 1833 and was commissioned colonel in the Hellenic Army. His campaigns that year included rooting out brigands in Aetolia and Acarnania, who were supported by Turks across the border. Gordon spoke the Turkish language fluently, to the astonishment of local pashas, and this was of considerable value in negotiations. He was also appointed the president of the military court set up to try the rebels in the Messenian disturbances.\n\nDue to poor health, Gordon resigned his commission in February 1839 and returned to Cairness, although he made another short visit to Greece in 1840.\n\nGordon died at Cairness and was survived by his wife. He had no issue with her and in his will left most of his estate, including a large landholding in Jamaica, to an illegitimate son called Charles Wilkinson, who later took the surname Gordon. His existence seems to have been a secret from the rest of the family as he had been brought up by a tutor in Elgin. The inheritance caused much scandal and led to a long period of litigation within the family. Thomas Gordon’s historical library and manuscripts were sold in March 1850, and his antiquities in the following June, although some items remained at Cairness House until 1938, after the last of the Gordons sold the estate.\n\nGordon was awarded various honours, including being made Grand Commander of the Order of the Redeemer by the Greeks on his retirement.\nHe was a member of many learned societies including the Royal Society (1821), the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (1828), and the Royal Asiatic Society (1834), and in Greece the Society for Natural History (1837) and the Archaeological Society (1840).\n\n"}
{"id": "3689862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3689862", "title": "Tree throw", "text": "Tree throw\n\nA tree throw or tree hole is a bowl-shaped cavity or depression created in the subsoil by a tree. \n\nThey are formed either by the long term presence and growth of tree roots or when a large tree is blown over or has its stump pulled out which tears out a quantity of soil along with the roots. The resultant hole will often slowly fill with organic material and can be identified during archaeological fieldwork.\n\nFresh tree throws also provide a degree of shelter amongst the roots for animals. Some also contain evidence of prehistoric human activity such as flint tools suggesting that they were sometimes used by people in the distant past.\n\nTree throws expose humus-poor, mineral-rich soil. Over time the hole will fill with rain water, fallen leaves, animal excrement and other organic matter which over time becomes a habitat for decomposers which soon form a community on the thick organic layer and so are able to nurture certain types of organisms.\n\nPits from tree throws, together with mounds from decaying fallen trees, are part of the characteristic topography of old growth forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "20775860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20775860", "title": "W. David McIntyre", "text": "W. David McIntyre\n\nWilliam David McIntyre (born 1932) is a New Zealand historian. He was a professor in history at the University of Canterbury, in Christchurch, before retiring from that position in 1997.\n\nHe is an expert on the constitutional and military histories of the Commonwealth of Nations and British Empire, and it was in this capacity that he is published and has advised governments. He served as special advisor to the Committee on Commonwealth Membership.\n\nIn the 1992 Queen's Birthday Honours, McIntyre was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to historical research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2759685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2759685", "title": "Weapons of the Falklands War", "text": "Weapons of the Falklands War\n\nThese are some of the key weapons of the Falklands War used by both sides.\n\nThe Exocet is probably the most famous weapon of the war, sinking two British ships and damaging a third. Operated by both sides the missile was used by the Argentine Navy either air launched from Dassault Super Étendard jets and from an improvised land launcher.\nThe Sea Skua was a British light anti-ship missile, fired from Lynx helicopters, its warhead is only 20 kg compared with the Exocet's 165 kg. However, hits from three Sea Skua missiles badly damaged the Argentine ARA Alferez Sobral. \nThe AS.12 was a French built light anti-ship missile, fired from Westland Wasp helicopters. Like the Sea Skua, its small 28 kg warhead meant that it could not destroy ships outright; however, it could disable smaller vessels. On 25 April 1982 it contributed towards damaging and disabling the Argentine Submarine the ARA Santa Fe. A total of nine missiles were fired at the submarine trapped on the surface by anti-submarine torpedoes circling just under the hull. Of the missiles fired four hit, four missed and one failed to launch. Two of the missiles that hit the target failed to detonate on impact, instead punching a hole through the slender conning tower and exploding on the far side.\n\nSea Dart was the British naval medium-range surface-to-air missile. It proved unable to engage low-altitude targets, such as Argentine A4 Skyhawk aircraft and Exocet missiles. However, it did achieve several long-range kills.\n\nSea Wolf is a British naval short-range low-altitude surface-to-air missile, used to complement the longer-range Sea Dart. It proved capable of engaging low-flying aircraft.\n\nRapier is a British surface-to-air missile developed for the British Army to replace their towed Bofors 40/L70 anti-aircraft guns. Though not particularly effective in terms of number of 'kills' – its presence acted as a deterrent, especially after the deployment of Blind Fire systems around Port San Carlos.\n\nSeacat and Tigercat surface-to-air missiles were obsolete by the Falklands War; however, they were used by both sides during the conflict. The optically guided missiles were not effective; no kills can be attributed to the missiles. However, they were able to be used in San Carlos Water, where radar-based systems like Sea Dart and Sea Wolf could not operate. Argentine land forces had a total of 7 Tigercat missile launchers (Ex RAF); there were several near misses, and possibly one Sea Harrier had its engine damaged by shrapnel from one of the missiles.\n\nSea Slug, a long range, high altitude anti-aircraft missile system of the 1950s, was not used against aircraft but for bombardment of positions near Port Stanley by the Royal Navy ships equipped with it.\n\nThe Blowpipe missile is a British built man-portable surface-to-air missile used by both sides during the conflict. It performed poorly; official British reports attributed nine kills to the missile out of 95 fired. However, independent research suggests that only a single kill can be attributed to the British use of the missile, an Aermacchi MB-339 that was shot down at Goose Green on 28 May 1982. Argentine forces shot down a Harrier GR3 on 21 May, probably with a Blowpipe missile fired by Primer Teniente S Fernandez of Commando Company 601 over Port Howard. The system's overall lack of success was probably due to the amount of operator input required to successfully hit a target.\n\nBritish SAS special forces had acquired 6 American-made Stinger missiles; however, the soldier trained to use the missile was killed in a helicopter crash. By luck the first missile fired managed to bring down a Pucará on 21 May; however, the lack of training meant that a further five missiles fired that day did not hit their targets.\n\nArgentine forces used Soviet-made SA-7 Grail man portable missiles.\nRoland was a European short-range surface-to-air missile. Argentine forces deployed a single launcher to defend Stanley airport; it succeeded in shooting down one Sea Harrier (\"XZ456\") on 1 June 1982 above 10,000 feet (3000 m). The presence of the launcher forced British aircraft to operate above its envelope – typically at 18,000 feet (5,500 m) which severely reduced the accuracy of bombs dropped on the airport. The single Roland unit was later shipped back to Britain for analysis and testing.\n\nArgentine forces deployed a substantial number of anti-aircraft guns around Stanley and Goose Green airfields. These included some 15 Rheinmetall 20 mm/75 anti-aircraft guns, approximately 20 Hispania Suiza 30 mm guns, 15 Oerlikon GDF-002 35 mm twin cannons with 6 Skyguard fire control radars, as well as one older Super Fledermaus fire control system. \n\nThe AIM-9 Sidewinder in its L form was the Harrier's air-to-air missile. It claimed 20 Argentine aircraft.\n\nBy comparison, the FAA had the French Matra R530 missile\n\nBritish forces were equipped with the 105 mm L118 light gun as their main artillery and the Scimitar and Scorpion armoured reconnaissance vehicles.\n\nThe Argentine Marines used LVTP-7 and LARC-5 vehicles in their initial amphibious assault with all of them returning to the mainland shortly after. During the subsequent reinforcement of the islands defences, the Argentine Army deployed two artillery groups with OTO Melara Mod 56 105 mm guns and later airlifted four CITER L33 Guns 155 mm in order to repel the British naval gun fire. Twelve Panhard AML-90 wheel vehicles were also stationed within Stanley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4581658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4581658", "title": "Weimar Classicism", "text": "Weimar Classicism\n\nWeimar Classicism () was a German literary and cultural movement, whose practitioners established a new humanism, from the synthesis of ideas from Romanticism, Classicism, and the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThe \"Weimarer Klassik\" movement lasted thirty-three years, from 1772 until 1805, and involved intellectuals such as Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Johann Gottfried Herder, Friedrich Schiller, and Christoph Martin Wieland; and then was concentrated upon Goethe and Schiller during the period 1788–1805.\n\nThe German Enlightenment, called \"neo-classical\", burgeoned in the synthesis of Empiricism and Rationalism as developed by Christian Thomasius (1655–1728) and Christian Wolff (1679–1754). This philosophy, circulated widely in many magazines and journals, profoundly directed the subsequent expansion of German-speaking and European culture.\n\nThe inability of this common-sense outlook convincingly to bridge \"feeling\" and \"thought\", \"body\" and \"mind\", led to Immanuel Kant's epochal \"critical\" philosophy. Another, though not as abstract, approach to this problem was a governing concern with the problems of aesthetics. In his \"Aesthetica\" of 1750 (vol. II; 1758) Alexander Baumgarten (1714–62) defined \"aesthetics\", which he coined earlier in 1735, with its current intention as the \"science\" of the \"lower faculties\" (i.e., feeling, sensation, imagination, memory, et al.), which earlier figures of the Enlightenment had neglected. (The term, however, gave way to misunderstandings due to Baumgarten's use of the Latin in accordance with the German renditions, and consequently this has often led many to falsely undervalue his accomplishment.) It was no inquiry into taste—into positive or negative appeals—nor sensations as such but rather a way of knowledge. Baumgarten's emphasis on the need for such \"sensuous\" knowledge was a major abetment to the \"pre-Romanticism\" known as \"Sturm und Drang\" (1765), of which Goethe and Schiller were notable participants for a time.\n\nFollowing Goethe's competition with and separation from Wieland and Herder, the movement Weimar Classicism is often described to have occurred only between Goethe's first stay in Rome (1786) and the death of Schiller (1805), his close friend and collaborator, underrating especially Wieland's influence on German intellectual and poetic life. Therefore, the Weimar Classicism could also be started with the arrival of Wieland (1772) and extended beyond Schiller's death until the death of Wieland (1813) or even of Goethe himself (1832).\n\nIn Italy, Goethe aimed to rediscover himself as a writer and to become an artist, through formal training in Rome, Europe's 'school of art'. While he failed as an artist, Italy appeared to have made him a better writer.\n\nSchiller's evolution as a writer was following a similar path to Goethe's. He had begun as a writer of wild, violent, emotion-driven plays. In the late 1780s he turned to a more classical style. In 1794, Schiller and Goethe became friends and allies in a project to establish new standards for literature and the arts in Germany.\n\nBy contrast, the contemporaneous and efflorescing literary movement of German Romanticism was in opposition to Weimar and German Classicism, especially to Schiller. It is in this way both may be best understood, even to the degree in which Goethe continuously and stringently criticized it through much of his essays, such as \"On Dilettantism\", on art and literature. After Schiller's death, the continuity of these objections partly elucidates the nature of Goethe's ideas in art and how they intermingled with his scientific thinking as well, inasmuch as it gives coherence to Goethe's work. Weimar Classicism may be seen as an attempt to reconcile—in \"binary synthesis\"—the vivid feeling emphasized by the \"Sturm und Drang\" movement with the clear thought emphasized by the Enlightenment, thus implying Weimar Classicism is intrinsically un-Platonic. On this Goethe remarked:\n\nThe Weimar movement was notable for its inclusion of female writers. \"Die Horen\" included works by several women, including a serially published novel, \"Agnes von Lilien\", by Schiller's sister-in-law Caroline von Wolzogen. Other women published by Schiller included Sophie Mereau, Friederike Brun, Amalie von Imhoff, Elisa von der Recke, and Louise Brachmann.\n\nBetween 1786 and Schiller's death in 1805, he and Goethe worked to recruit a network of writers, philosophers, scholars and artists to their cause. This alliance later became known as 'Weimar Classicism', and it came to form a part of the foundation of 19th-century Germany's understanding of itself as a culture and the political unification of Germany.\n\nThese are essentials used by Goethe and Schiller:\n\n\nAlthough the vociferously unrestricted, even \"organic\", works that were produced, such as \"Wilhelm Meister\", \"Faust\", and \"West-östlicher Divan\", where playful and turbulent ironies abound, may perceivably lend Weimar Classicism the double, ironic title \"Weimar Romanticism\", it must nevertheless be understood that Goethe consistently demanded this distance via irony to be imbued within a work for precipitate aesthetic affect. \n\nSchiller was very prolific during this period, writing his plays \"Wallenstein\" (1799), \"Mary Stuart\" (1800), \"The Maid of Orleans\" (1801), \"The Bride of Messina\" (1803) and \"William Tell\" (1804).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also\": works by Herder, works by Goethe, and works by Schiller.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33876826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33876826", "title": "Yan-kit So", "text": "Yan-kit So\n\nYan-kit So (13 July 1933 – 22 December 2001) was a Chinese food historian and cookery expert who lived and worked mainly in London since the 1960s. She became known among a wider public for her commercially successful and critically acclaimed cookbooks, which contributed much to the popularization of Chinese cooking in Britain.\n\nBorn in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, she grew up in Hong Kong, where she graduated from University with a degree in history, and went on to acquire a DPhil at the University of London. She was married twice, to a Chinese surgeon whom she divorced, and then to the American historian Briton Martin Jr., who died in 1967 and with whom she had a son.\n\n"}
{"id": "72019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72019", "title": "Zecharias Frankel", "text": "Zecharias Frankel\n\nZecharias Frankel, also known as Zacharias Frankel (30 September 1801 – 13 February 1875) was a Bohemian-German rabbi and a historian who studied the historical development of Judaism. He was born in Prague and died in Breslau. Frankel was the founder and the most eminent member of the school of historical Judaism, which advocates freedom of research, while upholding the authority of traditional Jewish belief and practice. This school of thought was the intellectual progenitor of Conservative Judaism.\n\nFrankel was, through his father, a descendant of Vienna exiles of 1670 and of the famous rabbinical Spira family, while on his mother's side he descended from the Fischel family, which has given to the community of Prague a number of distinguished Talmudists. He received his early Jewish education at the yeshiva of Bezalel Ronsburg (Daniel Rosenbaum). In 1825 he went to Budapest, where he prepared himself for the university, from which he graduated in 1831. In the following year he was appointed district rabbi (\"Kreisrabbiner\") of Litoměřice by the government, being the first rabbi in Bohemia with a modern education. He made Teplice his seat, where the congregation, the largest in the district, had elected him rabbi. He was called to Dresden in 1836 as chief rabbi, and was confirmed in this position by the Saxon government. In 1843 he was invited to the chief rabbinate at Berlin, which position had been vacant since 1800, but after a long correspondence he declined, chiefly because the Prussian government, in accordance with its fixed policy, refused to officially recognize the office. He remained in Dresden until 1854, when he was called to the presidency of the Breslau seminary, where he remained until his death.\n\nFrankel held that reason based on scholarship, and not mere desire on the part of the laity, must be the justification for any reforms within Judaism. In this sense Frankel declared himself when the president of the Teplice congregation expressed the hope that the new rabbi would introduce reforms and do away with the \"Missbräuche\" (abuses). He stated that he knew of no abuses; and that if there were any, it was not at all the business of the laity to interfere in such matters (Brann, in his \"Jahrbuch,\" 1899, pp. 109 et seq.).\n\nHe introduced some slight modifications in Jewish prayer services such as: the abrogation of some hymns, the introduction of a choir of boys, and the like. He was opposed to any innovation which was objectionable to Jewish sentiment. In this respect, his denunciation of the action of the \"Landesrabbiner\" Joseph Hoffmann of Saxe-Meiningen, who permitted Jewish high-school boys to write on the Sabbath, is very significant (\"Orient,\" iii. 398 et seq.).\n\nHis position in the controversy on the new Hamburg prayer book (1842) displeased both parties; the liberals were dissatisfied because, instead of declaring that their prayer-book was in accord with Jewish tradition, he pointed out inconsistencies from the historical and dogmatic points of view; and the Orthodox were dissatisfied because he declared changes in the traditional ritual permissible (l.c. iii. 352-363, 377-384).\n\nA great impression was produced by his letter of July 18, 1845, published in a Frankfurt-am-Main journal, in which he announced his secession from the rabbinical conference then in session in that city. He said that he could not cooperate with a body of rabbis who had passed a resolution declaring the Hebrew language unnecessary for public worship. This letter made Frankel one of the leaders of the conservative element. In opposition to the rabbinical conferences, he planned conventions of scholars. His principles were enunciated in his monthly \"Journal of the Religious Interests of Judaism\", which he published from 1844 onward. But Frankel's conciliatory attitude was bound to create for him enemies on both liberal and orthodox sides, and such was the case with Abraham Geiger and Samson Raphael Hirsch, respectively.\n\nFrankel was chosen president of the new rabbinical seminary at Breslau (10 August 1854). Geiger, who had inspired Jonas Fränkel, the president of his congregation, to found this institution, opposed the appointment vigorously, and when the examination questions given by Frankel to the first graduating class appeared, Geiger published them in a German translation with the evident intention of ridiculing his methods of Talmudic instruction as sophistry (Geiger, \"Jüd. Zeit.\" i. 169 et seq.).\n\nSamson Raphael Hirsch, immediately on the opening of the seminary, addressed an open letter to Frankel, demanding a statement as to the religious principles which would guide the instruction at the new institution. Frankel ignored the challenge. When the fourth volume of Grätz's history appeared Hirsch impeached the orthodoxy of the new institution (1856), and his attacks became more systematic when Frankel in 1859 published his Hebrew introduction to the Mishnah. The first attack began with the letter of , rabbi of Székesfehérvár, published in Hirsch's \"Jeschurun\", 1860. Hirsch himself began in the following year a series of articles in which he took exception to some of Frankel's statements, especially to his definition of rabbinical tradition, which he found vague; he further objected to Frankel's conception of the rabbinical controversies, which were, according to Frankel, improperly decided by certain devices common in parliamentary bodies.\n\nIt can hardly be denied that Frankel evaded the clear definition of what \"tradition\" meant to him. He contented himself with proving from Rabbenu Asher that not everything called a \"law\", and reputed as given by Moses on Mount Sinai, was actually of Mosaic origin. Hirsch was seconded by various Orthodox rabbis, such as Ezriel Hildesheimer, Solomon Klein of Colmar, and Benjamin Hirsch Auerbach, while some of Frankel's supporters, like Salomon Juda Rappoport, were half-hearted. Frankel but once published a brief statement in his magazine, in which, however, he failed to give an outspoken exposition of his views (\"Monatsschrift\", 1861, pp. 159 et seq.). The general Jewish public remained indifferent to the whole controversy, and Frankel's position was gradually strengthened by the number of graduates from the seminary who earned reputations as scholars and as representatives of conservative Judaism.\n\nFrankel began his literary career rather late. His first independent publication was his work on the Jewish oath, \"Jewish Oaths in Theology and History\" (Dresden, 1840, 2d ed. 1847). This work owed its origin to a political question. The law of 16 August 1838, had improved the position of the Jews in Saxony, but still discriminated with regard to the Jewish oath, which was to be taken under conditions which seemed to involve the supposition that a Jew could not fully be trusted in his testimony before a civil court. Frankel proved that no Jewish doctrine justified such an assumption, and owing to his work, a new regulation (13 February 1840) put the Jews on the same basis as Christians as regards testimony in court.\n\nHis second great work was his \"Historical-Critical Studies on the Septuagint as Addition to the \"Targumim \"Contributions: Preliminary Studies for the Septuagint\" (Leipzig, 1841). To the same category belong three later works: \"On the Influence of Palestinian Exegesis on Alexandrian Hermeneutics\" (Leipzig, 1851); \"About Palestinian and Alexandrian Writing Research\" published in the program for the opening of the Breslau seminary (Breslau, 1854); and \"On the Targum of the Prophets\" (Breslau, 1872).\n\nIn all these works it was his object to show that the exegesis of the Alexandrian Jews, and with it that of the early Church Fathers, was dependent on Talmudic exegesis. In this investigation he became a pioneer, and many of his disciples followed him with similar investigations, not only of the Septuagint, but also of the Vulgate and of the Peshitta. A political motive was involved in his study on legal procedure, \"Der Gerichtliche Beweis nach Mosaisch-Talmudischem Rechte: Ein Beitrag zur Kenntnis des Mosaisch-Talmudischen Criminal-und Civilrechts: Nebst einer Untersuchung über die Preussische Gesetzgebung Hinsichtlich des Zeugnisses der Juden\" (Berlin, 1846). The law of Prussia discriminated against the Jews insofar as the testimony of a Jew against a Christian was valid only in civil cases, and in these only when they involved a sum less than fifty thalers. It was due to Frankel's work, which was cited as an authority in the Prussian Diet, that the new law of July 23, 1847 referring to the Jews, abolished this discrimination.\n\nFrankel's duties as professor of Talmudic literature showed him the necessity of modern scientific text-books on rabbinical literature and archeology. To this necessity are due his introduction to the Mishnah, \"Darke ha-Mishnah\" (Leipzig, 1859), with a supplement and index under the title \"Tosafot u-Mafteah; le-Sefer Darke ha-Mishnah\" (1867).\n\nOf the storm which this book created mention has been made already. It is one of the most valuable attempts at a systematized exposition of the history of early rabbinical literature and theology, and has largely inspired subsequent works of that kind, as those of Jacob Brüll and Isaac H. Weiss. His outline of rabbinical marriage law, \"Grundlinien des Mosaisch-Talmudischen Eherechts\" (Breslau, 1860), was likewise meant to serve as a text-book on that subject, as was also his attempt at a history of the post-Talmudic literature of sophistry, \"Entwurf einer Geschichte der Literatur der Nachtalmudischen Responsen\" (Breslau, 1865), which, however, is considered (by whom?) the weakest of his works.\n\nFrankel's studies in the history of Talmudic literature had convinced him that the neglect of the Jerusalem Talmud was a serious drawback in the critical investigation of the development of Talmudic law. To this field he determined to devote the remainder of his life. In 1870 he published his introduction to the Jerusalem Talmud under the title \"Mebo ha-Yerushalmi\" (Breslau). He afterward began a critical edition of the Jerusalem Talmud, with a commentary, but only three treatises had appeared, Berakot and Peah (Vienna, 1874) and Demai (Breslau, 1875), when his death intervened.\n\nHe wrote frequently for the two magazines which he edited, the \"Zeitschrift für die Religiösen Interessen des Judenthums\" (Leipzig, 1844–46), and the \"Monatsschrift für die Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums\", begun in 1851, and which he edited until 1868, when Grätz succeeded him as editor. Though a son of the rationalistic era which produced two of its most intense partisans, Peter Beer and Herz Homberg in his native city, Frankel developed, partly through opposition to shallow rationalism and partly through the romantic environments of the ancient city of Prague, that love and sympathy for the past that made him the typical expounder of the historical school which was known as the \"Breslau school.\" His marriage with Rachel Meyer was childless.\n\nZacharias Frankel College in Berlin is named after him. In 2017, Nitzan Stein Kokin, who was German, became the first person to graduate from Zacharias Frankel College, which also made her the first Conservative rabbi to be ordained in Germany since before World War II.\n\nHe married Rachel Maier of Teplice. Through her mother, she was the great-granddaughter of Isak Landesmann of Police u Jemnice, who was remembered as a notable victim of eighteenth century anti-Semitism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6864914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6864914", "title": "Zutik (publication)", "text": "Zutik (publication)\n\nZutik (\"Stand Up\" in Basque) was the internal organ of the Basque clandestine terrorist organization ETA. It was founded in 1961.\n\nThe current organ of ETA is named \"Zutabe\" (\"Pillar\").\n"}
{"id": "44722563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44722563", "title": "Česlovas Laurinavičius", "text": "Česlovas Laurinavičius\n\nČeslovas Laurinavičius (born September 16, 1952 in Klaipeda) is a Lithuanian historian and politologist, a 2003 recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Order for Merits to Lithuania. Since 2001 head of the Department of the 20th Century History at the Lithuanian Institute of History \n"}
