{"id": "3052060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3052060", "title": "Akatek language", "text": "Akatek language\n\nAkatek (Acateco) is a Mayan language spoken by the Akatek people primarily in the Huehuetenango Department, Guatemala in and around the municipalities of Concepción Huista, Nentón, San Miguel Acatán, San Rafael La Independencia and San Sebastián Coatán. A number of speakers also live in Chiapas, Mexico. It is a living language with 58,600 speakers in 1998, of which 48,500 lived in Guatemala and the remaining in Mexico.\n\nAkatek is closely related to the two Mayan languages, Q'anjob'al and Jakaltek. The three languages together form the Q'anjob'al-Jakaltek sub-branch, which together with the Mocho' language form the Q'anjob'alan sub-branch, which again, together with the Chujean languages, Chuj and Tojolab'al, form the branch Q'anjobalan–Chujean. It is believed that Q'anjob'al–Jakaltek split into Akatek, Q'anjob'al and Jakaltek some 500 to 1,500 years ago.\n\nAkatek was regarded as a dialect of the Q'anjob'al language until the 1970s, when linguists realized that it has a distinct grammar from that of Q'anjob'al. That it has been thought a dialect of Q'anjob'al is reflected in the many names Akatek has had through time. One of its primary names before it was named Akatek was \"Western Q'anjob'al\", but it has also been called \"Conob\" and various names including \"Q'anjob'al\" and the municipality where it is spoken.\n\nAn interesting aspect of Akatek grammar, which is also present in most other Q'anjobalan languages, is the use of directional morphemes, which appear as enclitics. These morphemes make it possible for the speaker to talk about movement and direction in space without pointing or using other gestures. Consider the stative verb \"to be\", which can appear as \"existing inwards\", \"existing towards there, away from the speaker and listener\" and \"existing from the inside out\", using different enclitics.\n\nAkatek has 5 vowels:\n\nVowel length is distinctive, so one can say that the total number of vowels is 10.\n\nAkatek has 24 consonants, including the glottal stop:\n"}
{"id": "4533899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4533899", "title": "Akshay Kumar Datta", "text": "Akshay Kumar Datta\n\nAkshay Kumar Datta (also spelt Akshay Kumar Dutta) () (15 July 1820 – 18 May 1886) was a Bengali writer from the Indian subcontinent. He was born in Bagerhat, British India. Son of Pitamber Dutta, he was one of the initiators of the Bengal Renaissance.\n\nAfter studying in the Oriental Seminary under the special care of Hardman Jeffroy, he had to give up studies because of the death of his father and go job-seeking. However, that could not put an end to his yearning for learning. At the Sovabazar Rajbari library, he studied and mastered Calculus and Geometry. He had learnt Sanskrit and Persian, and read the Hindu scriptures at school. He acquired proficiency in French, German and various Indian languages. He composed the poetry-book \"Anangamohan\" at the age of 14. While a youngster he used to translate news items and features for Iswar Chandra Gupta's \"Sambad Prabhakar\". He even studied in Medical College for some time to gain knowledge of botany, zoology and chemistry. \n\nIn 1839, he joined the Tattwabodhini Sabha and soon became its assistant secretary. He was appointed a teacher of the Tattwabodhini Pathsala the next year and in 1843, \"Tattwabodhini Patrika\" was published as mouthpiece of both the Tattwabodhini Sabha and Brahmo Samaj. He was the first editor of the journal and contributed substantially towards the development of prose writing in Bengali. He was the first Bengali writer to seriously work for the propagation of a modern scientific outlook, writing books on Physics and Geography in Bengali. He also wrote profusely on astronomy, mathematics and geology. The students of Hindu College used to make fun of Bengali writing and some even felt that nothing worthwhile can be written in the Bengali language. However, whenever, \"Tattwabodhini Patrika\" came out they not only read it seriously but even brought it to the attention of one another. \n\nAkshay Kumar Datta was the first person in the Brahmo Samaj to boldly proclaim that the \"Vedas\" were not infallible. He succeeded in convincing Debendranath Tagore in this respect and ultimately Brahmo Samaj adopted the thinking that while it respected all religious scriptures it did not consider any as infallible. It was in this perspective that Debendranath Tagore wrote \"Brahmo Dharma\".\n\nIn 1855, he developed some kind of agonising cerebral problem and could not continue with his massive work for the \"Tattwabodhini Patrika\". His work was such that sometimes he used to spend the entire night writing. Moreover, he had serious philosophical and theological differences with his employer Debendranath Tagore. He left Tattwabodhini and served for sometime as Principal of the Normal School for teachers' training established by Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar, his friend and mentor.\n\nHis magnum opus was the two-part \"Bharatbarshiya Upasak Sampraday\" (Vol.1, 1871, Vol.2, 1883). The brilliant introductions to the two volumes of this book evince his profound philosophical, linguistic and scientific learning and depth. Among others, Max Muller, Monier-Williams and Rajendralal Mitra were greatly impressed by his profound scholarship, though not agreeing on all points.\n\nDeeply influenced by Francis Bacon, Isaac Newton, John Stuart Mill, Auguste Comte, Charles Darwin, Thomas Henry Huxley and Rammohan Roy, he was among the first few men in modern India who had presented an empiricist critique of the ancient Indian philosophies. He was bold enough to point out that contrary to popular belief, much of Indian philosophy was suffused with atheist and sceptical thought. For example, Samkhya was professedly atheist; Patanjali / Yoga, while no doubt theist, basically explained the applied aspects of Samkhya; Vaisheshika traced the ultimate reality to \"paramanu\", i.e., atoms; Nyaya studied the logic and methodology of studying reality; Purba Mimamsa of Jaimini pooh-poohed gods; even Vedanta, while accepting that Brahma was the ultimate reality, said that god was not the creator but the constructor of the world. Jainism, Charvaka philosophy and Buddhism also had no place for God, he showed. He was an agnostic and went against all religions, considering them to be harmful for humanity.\n\nHis other books were: \"Bahyabastur sahit manabprakritir sambandha bichar\" (based on the \"Constitution of Man\" by George Combe), \"Dharmaniti\", \"Prachin Hinduder Samudrajatra O Banijya bistar\" (published posthumously by his son Rajani Nath Datta), \"Charupath\" (in three volumes), and \"Padarthyabidya\". \n\nThe textbook \"Charupath\" was mandatory reading for almost three generations. Akshay Datta earned a lot of money from it. This he spent in building up a botanical garden and a geological museum at Shovon-Udyan, his retreat at Bally in Howrah. The portraits of Newton, Darwin, Mill, T H Huxley and Raja Ram Mohan Roy hung in his study cum laboratory.\n\nHis family life was not happy. Relations with both his wife and his sons were strained. In a sense he died a lonely man, leaving a substantial amount for the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science. A few days after his death in 1886 at Bally in Howrah, a meeting was held in Calcutta where tall promises were made on how to immortalise his memory. But absolutely nothing emerged and eventually he became forgotten.\n\nThe renowned Bengali poet Satyendranath Dutta was his grandson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209422", "title": "Arapaho language", "text": "Arapaho language\n\nThe Arapaho (Arapahoe) language () is one of the Plains Algonquian languages, closely related to Gros Ventre and other Arapahoan languages. It is spoken by the Arapaho of Wyoming and Oklahoma. Speakers of Arapaho primarily live on the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming, though some have affiliation with the Cheyenne living in western Oklahoma.\n\nArapaho is an Algonquian language of the Algic family.\n\nBy the 1850s, Arapaho bands formed two tribes: the Northern Arapaho and Southern Arapaho. Since 1878 the Northern Arapaho have lived with the Eastern Shoshone on the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming and are federally recognized as the Arapahoe Tribe of the Wind River Reservation. The Southern Arapaho live with the Southern Cheyenne in Oklahoma. Together their members are enrolled as the federally recognized Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes.\n\nThe exact number of Arapaho speakers is not precisely known; however it has been estimated that the language currently retains between 250 and 1,000 active users. Arapaho has limited development outside of the home; however, it is used in some films and the Bible was translated into the language in 1903. According to one source, under 300 people over the age of 50 speak the language in Wyoming, and in Oklahoma the language is used by \"only a handful of people . . . all near eighty or older\". As of 1996, there were approximately 1,000 speakers among the Northern Arapaho. As of 2008, the authors of a newly published grammar estimated that there were slightly over 250 fluent speakers, plus \"quite a few near-fluent passive understanders\". In 2008, it was reported that a school had been opened to teach the language to children. Arapaho language camps were held in Summer 2015 at Wind River Tribal College and in St. Stephens, Wyoming. Currently, the language may be acquired by children, for a population estimate as recent as 2007 lists an increase to 1,000 speakers and notes that the language is in use in schools, bilingual education efforts begun on Wind River Reservation in the 1980s and the Arapaho Language Lodge, a successful immersion program, was established in 1993. \"The Arapaho Project\" is an effort made by the Arapaho people to promote and restore their traditional language and culture. Despite hope for the language, its relatively few active users and the fact that it has seen recent population decreases render Arapaho an endangered language. Ethnologue deems it \"threatened,\" meaning that some children are learning it but it is threatened by other languages and it may be losing speakers.\n\nBesawunena, only attested from a wordlist collected by Kroeber, differs only slightly from Arapaho, though a few of its sound changes resemble those seen in Gros Ventre. It had speakers among the Northern Arapaho as recently as the late 1920s.\n\nAmong the sound changes in the evolution from Proto-Algonquian to Arapaho are the loss of Proto-Algonquian *k, followed by *p becoming either or ; the two Proto-Algonquian semivowels merging to either or ; the change from *s to in word-initial position, and *m becoming or depending on the following vowel. Arapaho is unusual among Algonquian languages in retaining the contrast between the reconstructed phonemes *r and *θ (generally as and , respectively). These and other changes serve to give Arapaho a phonological system very divergent from that of Proto-Algonquian and other Algonquian languages, and even from languages spoken in the adjacent Great Basin. Some examples comparing Arapaho words with their cognates in Proto-Algonquian can illustrate this:\n\nAt the level of pronunciation, Arapaho words cannot begin with a vowel, so where the underlying form of a word begins with a vowel, a prothetic is added.\n\nArapaho has a series of four short vowels (pronounced ) and four long vowels (customarily written and pronounced ). The difference in length is phonemically distinctive: compare hísiʼ, \"tick\" with híísiʼ, \"day\", and hócoo, \"steak\" with hóócoo, \"devil\". and are mostly in complementary distribution, as, with very few exceptions, the former does not occur after velar consonants, and the latter only occurs after them. does have some exceptions as in the free variants kokíy ~ kokúy, \"gun\"; kookiyón ~ kookuyón, \"for no reason\"; and bííʼoxíyoo ~ bííʼoxúyoo, \"Found in the Grass\" (a mythological character). There is only one minimal pair to illustrate the contrast in distribution: núhuʼ, \"this\" versus níhiʼ-, \"X was done with Y\", in which níhiʼ- only occurs in bound form.\n\nRemarkably, unlike more than 98% of the world's languages, Arapaho has no low vowels, such as .\n\nIn addition, there are four diphthongs, , and several triphthongs, as well as extended sequences of vowels such as with stress on either the first or the last vowel in the combination.\n\nThe consonant inventory of Arapaho is given in the table below. When writing Arapaho, is normally transcribed as , as , as , and as .\n\nThe phoneme /b/ (the voiced bilabial stop) has a voiceless allophone [p] that occurs before other consonants or at the end of a word. The plosives , /k/, and /t/ are pronounced without aspiration in most environments, but are aspirated before other consonants or at the end of a word, or when preceding a syllable-final sequence of short vowel + /h/. In this same environment /b/ is aspirated and devoiced. For example, the grammatical prefix cih- is pronounced , the grammatical prefix tih- is pronounced , and the word héétbihʼínkúútiinoo, \"I will turn out the lights\" is hetihʼínkúútiinoo.\n\nConsonant clusters in Arapaho can only be two consonants long. Consonant clusters do not occur word initially, and /hC/ is the only that occurs word finally. The only consonant cluster that is \"base generated\" (exists in the most underlying representation of words) is /hC/. At the \"surface\" (at the level of actual pronunciation), other clusters arise by phonological processes including vowel syncope, or by juxtaposition of morphemes.\n\nArapaho is a pitch accent language. There are two phonemic tones: high (marked with an acute accent) or \"normal\" (unmarked). The contrast can be illustrated with the pair hónoosóóʼ, \"it is fancy\" and honoosóóʼ, \"it is raining.\" Long vowels and vowel sequences can carry a contour tone from high to low, as in hou3íne-, \"to hang\" (where the first syllable has a normal tone) versus hóu3íne-, \"to float\" (where the first syllable has a high+normal, or falling, tone). Although tonal contrasts are distinctive in Arapaho, minimal pairs such as those listed above are rare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22976039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22976039", "title": "Armenian Wikipedia", "text": "Armenian Wikipedia\n\nThe Armenian Wikipedia ( or Վիքիպեդիա Ազատ Հանրագիտարան, \"Vikipedia Azat Hanragitaran\") is the Armenian language version of Wikipedia.\n\nIt was created in February 2003 as Հայերեն Վիքիփեդիա, but started developing in 2005. The name was changed to Հայերեն Վիքիպեդիա on 5 April 2012.։\n\nOn 2 December 2013 it had reached 200,000 articles.\n\nIt has articles. It also has about registered contributors, including administrators.\n\nWith all of its current content, it is listed in List of Wikipedias in the 100,000+ category.\n\nThe Armenian language used is mainly the Eastern Armenian dialect. However, the Armenian Wikipedia is inclusive, and also contains articles of interest in the Western Armenian dialect, which is predominantly spoken in the Armenian Diaspora.\n\nSome articles have separate Eastern and Western Armenian versions. In those cases, the articles' secondary dialect is positioned at the top right corner of the article with the primary dialect. Articles in Western Armenian are also distinctly categorized .\n\nThe Armenian Wikipedia was originally named Վիքիփեդիա (\"Vikʻipʻedia\") but in 2012 it was renamed Վիքիպեդիա (\"Vikʻipedia\"). The letter պ (\"pē\") replaced the letter փ (\"pʻiwr\") to reflect the unaspirated pronunciation used in the Eastern Armenian dialect, the official form of the language as used in Armenia; however, the revised spelling is not consistent with the Western Armenian transliteration. The discussion and decision to make the change were done in two phases, and the change was put in effect on 5 April 2012.\n\nOn 24 March 2014, both Wikimedia Armenia and the \"Human Factor\" () launched a promotion called \"One Armenian, One Article\" (). This mass-media campaign was promoted on several Armenian television stations.\n\nThe plan aimed to increase both the quantity and quality of Armenian Wikipedia articles. In addition to expanding the Armenian language's presence on Wikipedia, it would raise the level of each article to reflect the rich history of the Armenian people as well as their current, flourishing position in the contemporary world.\n\nThe project hoped to organize Wiki-meetings of representatives of science, art and other subjects with the aim of familiarizing them with the Wiki-culture and helping them in making their own contributions in the development of the Armenian Wikipedia. The campaign would be conducted with training and incentive programs, as well as joint activities with educational and cultural institutions and organizations.\n\nThe \"One Armenian, One Article\" campaign was shown on the \"Human Factor\" TV program that aired on 24 March 2014 on Armenia TV. The campaign was subsequently popularised by many other information agencies.\n\nThere was a news conference on the \"One Armenian, One Article\" All-Armenian project on 27 March 2014.\n\nIn July 2014, BBC News reported that as a result of the campaign, the Armenian Wikipedia appeared to be outnumbering its neighboring countries with its more than 125,000 pages, compared to approximately 102,000 pages on the Azerbaijani Wikipedia and almost 84,000 pages on the Georgian Wikipedia.\n\nThe campaign was supported by the Armenian government as well. Education Minister Armen Ashotyan publicly stated, \"One Armenian, One Article – I will definitely do that and believe you will too.\" Defense Minister Seyran Ohanyan said that he created a Wikipedia entry on the Armenian army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2836685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2836685", "title": "Block programming", "text": "Block programming\n\nBlock programming or television block is the arrangement of programs on radio or television so that several items of one general class, such as soap operas or popular music, occur in sequence.\n\nBlock programming involves scheduling a series of related shows which are likely to attract and hold a given audience for a long period of time. Notable examples of overt block programming were NBC's Thursday evening \"Must See TV\" lineup, which included two hours of sitcoms and one hour of \"ER\", and Channel 4's \"T4\" program which often ran sitcoms like \"Friends\" back-to-back for an hour or more. Reruns on cable television are often assembled into similar blocks to fill several hours of generally little-watched daytime periods. A particularly long program block, especially one that does not air on a regular schedule, is known as a marathon.\n\nBlock programming in radio also refers to programming content that appeals to various demographics in time blocks, usually corresponding to the top or bottom of the hour or the quarter-hour periods. For example, various musical genres might be featured, such as a country music hour, a three-hour afternoon block of jazz, or a four-hour Saturday night '70s disco show.\n\nGenerally speaking, block programming is anathema to modern competitive commercial radio, which traditionally uses uniform formats, other than a handful of speciality shows in off-peak hours such as weekends (for instance, the infamous beaver hours in Canadian radio). The general rationale for not using block programming is that listeners expect a certain type of music when they tune into a radio station and breaking from that format will turn those listeners away from the station; likewise, a station that airs its programming in hodgepodge blocks will have difficulty building listener loyalty, as listeners' music will only be on for a few hours of the day. This argument for homogenized radio was also a driving force behind the effective death of freeform radio in the late 20th century. The case of talk radio is indicative of the decline of block programming: prior to the 1980s, it was not uncommon to mix various blocks of talk programming together on one station, but this has declined dramatically in the late 1990s and beyond. A listener to a conservative talk radio station will have little interest in a progressive talk radio, sports radio or hot talk block, which reaches a different demographic; stations that have attempted the block strategy have historically been unsuccessful. Block programming of this nature is alive and well on outlets like public radio (such as NPR, BBC, or the CBC) and in multicultural radio serving broad ethnic and cultural audiences, although even in this realm the idea of block programming is declining due to competition for donations.\n\nSome programming blocks have become so popular that they have been transformed to full-fledged 24-hour channels. Current channels which started as program blocks include TeenNick (originally a program block on Nickelodeon); Disney Junior (which is still a program block on the Disney Channel); Nick Jr. (which still airs on Nickelodeon); Boomerang (which was once a program block on Cartoon Network); and PBS Kids, a 24/7 channel, which PBS member stations are able to provide in addition to their current children's programming on the primary PBS channel. In addition, TV Land airs older shows that were once aired on sister channel Nickelodeon's Nick at Nite program block.\n\n"}
{"id": "1231618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1231618", "title": "Blowback (firearms)", "text": "Blowback (firearms)\n\nBlowback is a system of operation for self-loading firearms that obtains energy from the motion of the cartridge case as it is pushed to the rear by expanding gas created by the ignition of the propellant charge.\n\nSeveral blowback systems exist within this broad principle of operation, each distinguished by the methods used to control bolt movement. In most actions that use blowback operation, the breech is not locked mechanically at the time of firing: the inertia of the bolt and recoil spring(s), relative to the weight of the bullet, delay opening of the breech until the bullet has left the barrel. A few locked breech designs use a form of blowback (example: primer actuation) to perform the unlocking function.\n\nThe blowback principle may be considered a simplified form of gas operation, since the cartridge case behaves like a piston driven by the powder gases. Other operating principles for self-loading firearms include blow forward, gas operation, and recoil operation.\n\nThe blowback system is generally defined as an operating system in which energy to operate the firearm's various mechanisms and provide automation is derived from the movement of the spent cartridge case pushed out of the chamber by rapidly expanding powder gases. This rearward thrust, imparted against the breech, is a direct result of the expansion of propellant gases. Certain guns will use energy from blowback to perform the entire operating cycle (these are typically designs using relatively \"low pressure\" ammunition) while others will use a portion of the blowback to operate only certain parts of the cycle or simply use the blowback energy to enhance the operational energy from another system of automatic operation.\n\nWhat is common to all blowback systems is that the cartridge case must move under the direct action of the powder pressure, therefore any gun in which the bolt is not rigidly locked and permitted to move while there remains powder pressure in the chamber will undergo a degree of blowback action. The energy from the expansion of gases on firing appears in the form of kinetic energy transmitted to the bolt mechanism, which is controlled and used to operate the firearm's operation cycle. The extent to which blowback is employed largely depends on the manner used to control the movement of the bolt and the proportion of energy drawn from other systems of operation. How the movement of the bolt is controlled is where blowback systems differ. Blowback operation is most often divided into three categories, all using residual pressure to complete the cycle of operation: simple blowback (often just \"blowback\"), delayed/retarded blowback, and advanced primer ignition.\n\nRelating blowback to other types of automatic firearm operation, George M. Chinn wrote that: \"In the larger sense, blowback might well be considered a special form of gas operation. This is reasonable because the cartridge case may be conceived of as a sort of piston driven by the powder gases. Actually, blowback involves so many special problems that it is best considered to be in a class by itself. The question whether or not it should be included within the more general class of gas operation or recoil operation is purely academic. The important point is that it partakes some of the properties of both classes and, depending on the particular problem at hand, may be considered to be either one.\"\n\nThe blowback (sometimes referred to as \"simple\", \"straight\" or \"pure\" blowback) system represents the most basic auto loading operation type. In a blowback mechanism, the bolt rests against the rear of the barrel, but is not locked in place. At the point of ignition, expanding gases push the bullet forward through the barrel while at the same time pushing the case rearward against the bolt. The expanding gases push the bolt assembly to the rear, but the motion is slowed by the mass of the bolt, internal friction, and the force required to compress the action spring. The design must ensure that the delay is long enough that bullet exits the barrel before the cartridge case clears the chamber. The empty case is ejected as the bolt travels to the rear. The stored energy of the compressed action spring then drives the bolt forward (although not until the trigger is pulled if the weapon fires from an open bolt). A new cartridge is stripped from the magazine and chambered as the bolt returns to its in-battery position.\n\nThe blowback system is practical for firearms using relatively low-power cartridges with lighter weight bullets. Higher power cartridges require heavier bolts to keep the breech from opening prematurely; at some point, the bolt becomes too heavy to be practical. For an extreme example, a 20mm cannon using simple blowback and lubricated cartridges would need a bolt to keep the cartridge safely in the barrel during the first few milliseconds; furthermore, the average force supplied by the return spring is limited to or the bolt will not travel back far enough to feed a new round. Consequently, the return spring is not powerful enough to keep the bolt closed when the gun is tilted up. In addition, there is not enough energy stored in the bolt to cycle the weapon.\n\nDue to the required bolt weight, blowback designs in pistols are generally limited to calibers smaller than 9×19mm Parabellum (e.g., .25 ACP, .32 ACP, .380 ACP, 9×18mm Makarov, etc.) There are exceptions such as the simple blowback pistols from Hi-Point Firearms which include models chambered in .45 ACP, .40 S&W, .380 ACP and 9×19mm Parabellum. Simple blowback operation can also be found in small-bore (such as .22LR) semi-automatic rifles, carbines and submachine guns. Most simple blowback rifles are chambered for the .22 Long Rifle cartridge. Popular examples include the Marlin Model 60 and the Ruger 10/22. Most blowback carbines and submachine guns are chambered for pistol cartridges such as the 9×19mm Parabellum, .40 S&W and .45 ACP. Examples include the MP 40, Sten and UZI. The bolt can be made bigger and more massive in these weapons than in handguns, as they are intrinsically heavier and designed, ideally at least, to be fired with both hands, often with the aid of a shoulder stock; and these factors help to ameliorate the disruption to the shooter's aim caused by the heavy bolt's movement. Consequently, simple blowback is adequate for somewhat more powerful rounds in submachine guns than in standard pistols. There were also a few rifles that chambered cartridges specifically designed for blowback operation. Examples include the Winchester Model 1905, 1907 and 1910.\n\nWhereas simple blowback is limited to guns using low-power rounds, it is so efficient in this context that in small-calibre semi-automatic pistols it is by now almost ubiquitous. Heavier calibre models of handgun (other than revolvers, obviously) characteristically employ a short recoil system, of which by far the most common type are Browning-derived designs which rely on a locking barrel and slide assembly instead of blowback. But blowback guns can be used to fire powerful cartridges if they are of the other two types already mentioned: API or delayed/retarded blowback.\n\nIn the API blowback design, the primer is ignited when the bolt is still moving forward and before the cartridge is fully chambered. This requires a very careful design to ensure the proper balance and equalization of forces between the projectile weight, propellant charge, barrel length, bolt weight, and return spring strength. In a simple blowback design, the propellant gases have to overcome static inertia to accelerate the bolt rearwards to open the breech. In an API blowback, they first have to do the work of overcoming forward momentum to arrest the forward motion of the bolt. Because the forward and rearward speeds of the bolt tend to be approximately the same, the API blowback allows the weight of the bolt to be halved. Because the momentum of the two opposed bolt motions cancels out over time, the API blowback design results in reduced recoil.\n\nAccording to Anthony G. Williams, the \"API blowback principle is used virtually in all open bolt sub-machine guns\" (technically, although generally these are known as \"simple blowback\" weapons due to the very late ignition of the cartridge compared to specially designed API blowback guns like the MK 108), although \"the relatively low pressures and velocities mean that extended chambers and rebated-rim cartridges are not required\" for sub-machine guns. In heavier weapons, advanced primer ignition (API) was originally developed by Reinhold Becker for use on the Becker 20-mm automatic cannon. It became a feature of a wide range of designs that can be traced back to Becker's, including the Oerlikon cannon widely used as anti-aircraft weapons during World War II.\n\nTo increase performance of API blowback firearms, larger calibre APIB guns such as the Becker and Oerlikon use extended chambers, longer than is necessary to contain the round, and ammunition for APIB firearms come with straight-sided cartridges with rebated rims (rims that are smaller in diameter than the cartridge itself). The last part of forward motion and the first part of the rearward motion of the case and bolt happen within the confines of this extended chamber. As long as the gas pressure in the barrel is high, the walls of the case remain supported and the breach sealed, although the case is sliding rearwards. This sliding motion of the case, while it is expanded by a high internal gas pressure, risks tearing it apart, and a common solution is to grease the ammunition to reduce the friction. The case needs to have a rebated rim because the front end of the bolt will enter the chamber, and the extractor claw hooked over the rim therefore has to fit also within the diameter of the chamber. The case generally has very little neck, because this remains unsupported during the firing cycle and is generally deformed; a strongly necked case would be likely to split.\n\nThe API blowback design permits the use of more powerful ammunition in a lighter gun than would be achieved by using simple blowback, and the reduction of felt recoil results in further weight savings. The original Becker cannon, firing 20×70mmRB ammunition, was developed to be carried by World War I aircraft, and weighed only 30 kg. Oerlikon even produced an anti-tank rifle firing 20×110mmRB ammunition using the API blowback operation, the SSG36. On the other hand, because the design imposes a very close relationship between bolt mass, chamber length, spring strength, ammunition power and rate of fire, in APIB guns high rate of fire and high muzzle velocity tend to be mutually exclusive. API blowback guns also have to fire from an open bolt, which is not conducive to accuracy and also prevents synchronized fire through an aircraft propeller arc.\n\nAccording to a United States Army Materiel Command engineering course from 1970, \"The advanced primer ignition gun is superior to the simple blowback because of its higher firing rate and lower recoil momentum. However, favorable performance depends on timing that must be precise. A slight delay in primer function, and the gun reverts to a simple blowback without the benefit of a massive bolt and stiffer driving spring to soften the recoil impact. [...] The exacting requirements in design and construction of gun and ammunition reduce this type almost to the point of academic interest only.\"\n\nAPI mechanisms are very sensitive to the ammunition used. For example, when the Germans switched their MG FF (an Oerlikon FFF derivative) to their new, lighter Minengeschoß shell, they had to rebalance the spring strength and bolt weight of the gun, resulting in a new MG FF/M model with ammunition not being interchangeable between the two models. The 30 mm MK 108 cannon was perhaps the apogee of API blowback technology during World War II.\n\nAn example of API in sub-machine guns is the L2A3 Sterling submachine gun, where the maximum chamber pressure is achieved while the breechblock is still moving forward and is about 0.46 mm away from the rear face of the chamber. The principle is also used in some automatic grenade launchers, for example in the US Mk 19 grenade launcher or Russian AGS-30.\n\nFor more powerful rounds than can be safely used in simple blowback, or in order to obtain a lighter mechanism than the simple format can provide, the alternative to API is some system of delayed or retarded blowback, in which the bolt is never fully locked, but is initially held in place sealing the cartridge in the chamber by the mechanical resistance of one of various designs of delaying mechanism. As with the resistance provided by momentum in API, it takes a fraction of a second for the propellant gases to overcome this and start moving cartridge and bolt backwards; and this very brief delay is sufficient for the bullet to leave the muzzle and the internal pressure in the barrel to decrease to a safe level. The bolt and cartridge are then pushed to the rear by the residual gas pressure. \n\nBecause of high pressures, rifle-caliber delayed blowback firearms, such as the FAMAS and G3, typically have fluted chambers to ease extraction. Below are various forms of delayed-blowback actions:\n\nRoller-delayed blowback was first used in Mauser's Gerät 06H prototype. Roller-delayed blowback operation differs from roller-locked recoil operation as seen in the MG 42 and gas operated roller locked, as seen in the Gerät 06. Unlike the MG 42, in roller-delayed blowback the barrel is fixed and does not recoil, and unlike the Stg 44, roller-delayed blowback systems lack a gas piston. This lack aids relatively light constructions. As the bolt head is driven rearward, rollers on the sides of the bolt are driven inward against a tapered bolt carrier extension. This forces the bolt carrier rearward at a much greater velocity and delays movement of the bolt head. The primary advantage of roller-delayed blowback is the simplicity of the design compared to gas or recoil operation.\n\nThe roller-delayed blowback firearm action was patented by Mausers Wilhelm Stähle and Ludwig Vorgrimler. Though appearing simple its development during World War II was a hard technical and personal effort, as German engineering, mathematical and other scientists had to work together on a like-it-or-not basis led by Ott-Helmuth von Lossnitzer, the director of Mauser Werke's Weapons Research Institute and Weapons Development Group. Experiments showed roller-delayed blowback firearms exhibited bolt-bounce as the bolt opened at an extreme velocity of approximately 20 m/s during automatic fire. To counter bolt-bounce the perfect angle choice on the nose of the bolt head had to be found to significantly reduce the opening velocity of the bolt. The extremely high bolt carrier velocities problem was not solved by trial and error. Mathematician Dr. Karl Maier provided analysis of the components, assemblies in the development project. In December 1943 Maier came up with an equation that engineers used to change the angles in the receiver to 45° and 27° on the locking piece relative to the longitudinal axis reducing the bolt-bounce problem. With these angles the geometrical transmission ratio of the bolt carrier to the bolthead became 3:1, so the rear bolt carrier was forced to move 3 times faster than the bolthead. The rearward forces on the bolt carrier and receiver were 2:1. The force and impulse transmitted to the receiver increases with the force and impulse transmitted to the bolt carrier. Making the bolt carrier heavier lessens the recoil velocity. For Mausers StG 45(M) project Maier assumed a 120 g bolt head and 360 g bolt carrier (1 to 3 ratio). The prototype StG 45 (M) assault rifle had 18 longitudinal gas relief flutes cut in the chamber wall to assist the bloated cartridge casing from the chamber walls during extraction. Fluting the end of the chamber provides pressure equalization between the front outer surface of the cartridge case and its interior and thus ensures extraction without tearing the case making extraction easier and more reliable. In 1944 other German companies like Großfuß, Rheinmetall and Haenel showed interest in developing roller-delayed blowback small arms. Großfuß worked on a roller-delayed blowback MG 45 general-purpose machine gun that, like the StG 45 (M), had not progressed beyond the prototype stage by the end of World War II.\n\nAfter World War II, former Mauser technicians Ludwig Vorgrimler and Theodor Löffler perfected the mechanism between 1946 and 1950 while working for the French small arms manufacturer Centre d'Etudes et d'Armament de Mulhouse (CEAM). In 1950 Ludwig Vorgrimler was recruited to work for CETME in Spain. The first full-scale production rifle to utilize roller-delay was the Spanish CETME battle rifle, which was closely followed by the Swiss SIG SG 510 and the CETME Model B-based Heckler & Koch G3. The G3 bolt features an anti-bounce mechanism that prevents the bolt from bouncing off the barrel's breech surface. The G3's \"bolt head locking lever\" is a spring-loaded claw mounted on the bolt carrier that grabs the bolt head as the bolt carrier group goes into battery. The lever essentially ratchets into place with friction, providing enough resistance to being re-opened that the bolt carrier does not rebound. Due to the relative low bolt thrust exhibited by pistol cartridges the anti-bounce mechanism is omitted by Heckler & Koch on their roller-delayed blowback firearms chambered for pistols cartridges. Heckler & Koch's MP5 submachine gun is the most common weapon still in service worldwide using this system. The Heckler & Koch P9 semi-automatic pistol, CETME Ameli light machine gun and Heckler & Koch HK21 general-purpose machine gun also use roller-delayed blowback.\n\nLever-delayed blowback utilizes leverage to delay the opening of the breech. When the cartridge pushes against the bolt face, the lever moves the bolt carrier rearward at an accelerated rate relative to the light bolt. Leverage can be applied with a dedicated part or through inclined surfaces interacting with each other. This leverage significantly increases resistance and slows the movement of the lightweight bolt. John Pedersen patented the first known design for a lever-delay system. The mechanism was adapted by Hungarian arms designer Pál Király in the 1930s and used in the Danuvia 39M and 43M submachine guns for the Hungarian Army. After the World War II, Király settled in the Dominican Republic and developed the Cristóbal Carbine (or Király-Cristóbal Carbine). Other weapons to use this system are the Hogue Avenger and Benelli B76 pistols, the FNAB-43 submachine gun, the TKB-517, VAHAN and FAMAS assault rifles, the Sterling 7.62 and AVB-7.62 battle rifles/light machine guns, and the AA-52 machine gun.\n\nGas-delayed blowback should not be confused with gas-operation. The bolt is never locked, and so is pushed rearward by the expanding propellant gases, as in other blowback-based designs. However, propellant gases are vented from the barrel into a cylinder with a piston that delays the opening of the bolt. It was used by some World War II German designs for the 7.92×33mm Kurz cartridge, including the Volkssturmgewehr rifle (with little effectiveness) and the Grossfuss Sturmgewehr (with slightly more efficiency), and after the war by the Heckler & Koch P7, Walther CCP, Steyr GB and M-77B pistols.\n\nWhen a cartridge is fired, the case expands to seal the sides of the chamber. This seal prevents high-pressure gas from escaping into the action of the gun. Because a conventional chamber is slightly oversized, an unfired cartridge will enter freely. In a chamber-ring delayed firearm, the chamber is conventional in every respect except for a concave ring within the chamber wall. When the cartridge is fired, the case expands into this recessed ring and pushes the bolt face rearward. As the case moves to the rear this ring constricts the expanded portion of the case. The energy required to squeeze the walls of the cartridge case slows the rearward travel of the case and slide, reducing their mass requirements. The first known use of the system was on the Fritz Mann pistol in 1920 and later on the High Standard Corp. model T3 experimental pistol developed by Ott-Helmuth von Lossnitzer while working for High Standard. Other firearms that used this system were the LWS Seecamp pistol, the AMT Automag II, and the Kimball .30 Carbine pistol. The SIG SG 510 rifle family incorporates a chamber ring near the shoulder which is used to avoid bolt-bounce rather than a delay element.\n\nJohn Pedersen's patented system incorporates a breech block independent of the slide or bolt carrier. When in battery, the breech block rests slightly forward of the locking shoulder located in the frame of the firearm. When the cartridge is fired, the cartridge case, bolt and slide move together a short distance until the breech block strikes the locking shoulder and stops. The slide continues rearward with the momentum it acquired in the initial phase while the breech remains locked. This allows chamber pressure to drop to safe levels once the bullet departs the barrel. The continuing motion of the slide lifts the breech block from its recess and pulls it rearward, continuing the firing cycle. The Pedersen Remington Model 51 pistol, SIG MKMO submachine gun and R51 pistol are the only production firearms to have used this design.\n\nIn toggle-delayed blowback firearms, the rearward motion of the breechblock must overcome significant mechanical leverage. The bolt is hinged in the middle, stationary at the rear end and nearly straight at rest. As the breech moves back under blowback power, the hinge joint moves upward. The leverage disadvantage keeps the breech from opening until the bullet has left the barrel and pressures have dropped to a safe level. This mechanism was used on the Pedersen rifle and Schwarzlose MG M.07/12 machine gun.\n\nJohn Browning developed this simple method whereby the axis of bolt movement was not in line with that of the bore. The result was that a small rearward movement of the bolt in relation to the bore-axis required a greater movement along the axis of bolt movement, essentially magnifying the resistance of the bolt without increasing its mass. The French MAS-38 submachine gun of 1938 utilizes a bolt whose path of recoil is at an angle to the barrel. The Jatimatic and KRISS Vector use modified versions of this concept.\n\nCMMG introduced the Mk 45 Guard rifle incorporating a radial-delay in 2017. This system uses the rotation of the bolt head to accelerate the bolt carrier of an AR-15 pattern rifle. The bolt locking lugs are adapted to incorporate angles that rotate the bolt as it travels rearward under conventional blowback power. As the bolt rotates, it must accelerate the bolt carrier to the rear through an adapted cam-pin slot. This acceleration amplifies the effective mass of the bolt carrier, slowing the speed of the bolt head. This delay allows pressure to drop prior to extraction without the penalty of a heavier bolt carrier assembly. The system is similar to roller and lever-delayed blowback in that it uses the mass of the bolt carrier moving at a faster rate than the bolt head to delay the action from opening.\n\nFirst used on the Mannlicher Model 1893 rifle, the bolt in screw-delayed blowback was delayed by angled interrupted threads delayed by a quarter twist to unlock. John T. Thompson designed an autorifle that operated on a similar principle around 1920 and submitted it for trials with the US Army. This rifle, submitted multiple times, competed unsuccessfully against the Pedersen rifle and Garand primer-actuated rifle in early testing to replace the M1903 Springfield rifle. This operation is one of the most simple forms of delayed blowback but unless the ammunition is lubricated or uses a fluted chamber, the recoil can be volatile especially when using full length rifle rounds. Rotation of the bolt should be at least 90° to prevent ruptured cartridges. Another form of this operation was developed by Mikhail Kalashnikov who later developed a prototype submachine gun in 1942 that operated by a screw-delayed blowback principle, which is also found on the Fox Wasp carbine. A pair of telescoping screws delayed rearward movement of the operating parts during the firing cycle. This weapon was ultimately not selected for production.\n\nDavid Marshall Williams (a noted designer for the U.S. Ordnance Office and later Winchester) developed a mechanism to allow firearms designed for full-sized cartridges to fire .22 caliber rimfire ammunition reliably. His system used a small 'piston' that incorporates the chamber. When the cartridge is fired, the front of the floating chamber is thrust back by gas pressure impinging on the front of the chamber as in a traditional piston. This, added to the blowback energy imparted on the cartridge, pushes the bolt back with greater energy than either force alone. Often described as accelerated blowback, this amplifies the otherwise anemic recoil energy of the .22 rimfire cartridge. Williams designed a training version of the Browning machine gun and the Colt Service Ace .22 long rifle version of the M1911 using his system. The floating chamber is both a blowback and gas operated mechanism.\n\nPrimer actuated firearms use the energy of primer setback to unlock and cycle the firearm. John Garand developed the system in an unsuccessful bid to replace the M1903 bolt-action rifle in the early 1920s. Garand's prototypes worked well with US military .30-06 ammunition and uncrimped primers, but then the military changed from a fast burning gunpowder to a progressive burning Improved Military Rifle (IMR) powder. The slower pressure rise made the primer actuated prototypes unreliable, so Garand abandoned the design for a gas operated rifle that became the M1 Garand. AAI Corporation used a primer piston in a rifle submitted for the SPIW competition. Other rifles to use this system were the Postnikov APT and Clarke carbine as described in .\n\nA similar system is used in the spotting rifles on the LAW 80 and Shoulder-launched Multipurpose Assault Weapon use a 9mm, .308 Winchester based cartridge with a .22 Hornet blank cartridge in place of the primer. Upon firing, the Hornet case sets back a short distance, unlocking the action.\n\nThe case cartridge itself has been used experimentally to actuate the action similar to Garand's primer-actuation. Known prototypes using this method of operation include two 1936 rifle designs, one by Mihail Mamontov and another by Makar Goryainov at TsKB-14, and a 1980s design by A.F. Barishev. The Mamontov and Goryainov rifles are only partially automatic; only the bolt unlocking is powered by the gases pushing the cartridge back, while the rest of the cycle (ejection, reloading) is done manually as in a traditional bolt-action rifle. A major problem with using the case cartridge as piston is that its motion is much faster (about 1 ms) compared to tapping gas further down the bore through a piston—about 5 ms in the Dragunov sniper rifle, which used the same cartridge as Mamontov's rifle. Barishev made a fully automatic, but rather bulky mechanism that used a mechanical delay. In his system, the case cartridge pushed back a tilting bolt face, that upon reaching a certain angle pushes backwards an unlocking lever that continues farther before unlocking the bolt. The GRAU however still gave a negative evaluation of Barishev's gun, pointing out that the main problems with reliability of firearms using the cartridge case as a piston were known since the 1930s and still unsolved.\n\nThe Blish Lock is a breech locking mechanism designed by John Bell Blish based upon his observation that under extreme pressures, certain dissimilar metals will resist movement with a force greater than normal friction laws would predict. In modern engineering terminology, it is called static friction, or \"stiction\". His locking mechanism was used in the Thompson submachine gun, Autorifle and Autocarbine designs. This dubious principle was later eliminated as redundant in the M1 and M1A1 versions of the submachine guns at the insistence of the US Army.\n\nLubrication or fouling would completely defeat any delay. Whatever actual advantage a clean, unlubricated Blish system could impart could also be attained by adding a mere ounce of mass to the bolt.\n\nThe Savage system employed the theory that the rifling in the barrel caused a rotational force that would hold the gun locked until the projectile left the barrel. It was later discovered that the bullet had left the barrel long before any locking could occur. Savage pistols were in fact operating as simple blow back firearms. The French MAB PA-15 and PA-8 9mm pistols feature a similar design.\n\nOther autoloading systems are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "904209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904209", "title": "Cultural pessimism", "text": "Cultural pessimism\n\nCultural pessimism arises with the conviction that the culture of a nation, a civilization, or humanity itself is in a process of irreversible decline. It is a variety of pessimism formulated by a cultural critic.\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, cultural pessimism surfaced in a prominent way. The very title of Jacques Barzun's \"From Dawn to Decadence: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life, 1500 to the Present\" (2000) challenges the reader to be hopeful. On Matthew Arnold, a major cultural critic of the Victorian era, Barzun writes\n\n\"According to Arnold, the behaviour of the English social classes was touched neither by spiritual nor by intellectual forces; the upper orders were barbarians, the middle classes philistines.\" (op. cit. p.573)\n\nThe end of the millennium saw in the United States concerns rather specific to the conservative view on the culture wars and university education.\n\nWestern Europe, on the other hand, struggled towards self-definition in the face of limiting demography, and postmodernism as at least journalistically predominant—the difference primarily lying in the political prominence of the issues.\n\nIt has been significant presence in the general outlook of many historical cultures: things are \"going to the dogs\", the Golden age is in the past, and the current generation is fit only for dumbing down and cultural careerism. Some significant formulations have gone beyond this, proposing a universally-applicable cyclic model of history—notably in the writings of Giambattista Vico.\n\nThe pessimistic element was available in Schopenhauer's philosophy and Matthew Arnold's cultural criticism. The tide of Whiggish optimism (exemplified by Macaulay) receded somewhat in the middle of the reign of Queen Victoria.\n\nClassical culture, based on traditional classical scholarship in Latin and Greek literature, had itself been under attack externally for two generations or more by 1900, and had produced in Nietzsche, a model pessimistic thinker.\n\nCultural pessimism of the Oswald Spengler epoch might be seen as a refusal, of the rather intellectual and secular choice between nihilism and modernism. Politically this tended to squeeze liberal thought.\n\nSpecific criticism of the West, in the first years of the twentieth century, is usually taken as of the Old World of Europe, excluding therefore North America in particular. The classic source for this is Spengler's \"The Decline of the West\" (1918–1923), often cited in the years following its publication. The tone of much of the critical writing, for example, of T. S. Eliot, and the historical writing of Arnold J. Toynbee from the 1920s onwards, is identifiable. It was fashionable to say that Spengler had at least formulated some truths about the cultural situation of Europe after World War I. Eliot's major early work \"The Waste Land\" (1922) was commonly and directly interpreted in those terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30529704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30529704", "title": "Donnchadh Ruadh Mac Conmara", "text": "Donnchadh Ruadh Mac Conmara\n\nDonnchadh Ruadh Mac Conmara (1715–1810) was an Irish poet.\n\nA Jacobite poet, Mac Conmara was a native of Cratloe, County Clare\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1543379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543379", "title": "Earnest payment", "text": "Earnest payment\n\nAn earnest payment is a specific form of security deposit made in some major transactions such as real estate dealings or required by some official procurement processes to demonstrate that the applicant is serious and willing to demonstrate an earnest of good faith about wanting to complete the transaction.\n\nIn ancient times, the earnest payment was called variously an earnest penny, Arles penny, or God's silver (in Latin Argentum Dei). It was either money or a valuable coin or token given to bind a bargain, notably for the purchase or hiring of a servant. According to Black's Law Dictionary (sixth ed.), \"Et cepit de praedicto Henrico tres denarios de Argento Dei prae manibus\" (\"And he took it from the aforesaid Henry [sealed by a] silver three pence [piece] handed over [in the sight of] God\").\n\nA potential buyer of property of high value such as residential real estate generally signs a contract and pays a sum acceptable to the seller by way of earnest money. The amount varies enormously, depending upon local custom and the state of the local market at the time of contract negotiations.\n\nIn very competitive markets 'the earnest' may represent a substantial portion of the completion cost. In the USA, between about 2000 and 2005 real estate purchase earnest money deposits reached about 5% of the sales price. In other situations, a significant token payment (equivalent to around one week or one month's salary) may be acceptable. (In the USA during 2008 typically $500 or $1000 was acceptable)\n\nIf the seller accepts the offer, the earnest money is held in trust or escrow.\n\nThese funds may be held directly by the real estate broker (as in the State of New York) or by a settlement or title company (as in states like California, Florida, and Texas).\n\nWhen the transaction is settled then the deposit is applied to the buyer's portion of the remaining costs. If the offer is rejected, the earnest money is usually returned, since no binding contract has been entered into. Laws vary as to what happens with the deposit should the buyer fail to perform on the contract.\n\n"}
{"id": "31935195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31935195", "title": "Extinct languages of the Marañón River basin", "text": "Extinct languages of the Marañón River basin\n\nThe Marañón River basin, at a low point in the Andes which made it an attractive location for trade between the Inca Empire and the Amazon basin, once harbored numerous languages which have been poorly attested or not attested at all. Those of the middle reaches of the river, above the Amazon basin, were replaced in historical times by Aguaruna, a Jivaroan language from the Amazon which is still spoken there. The languages further upriver are difficult to identify, due to lack of data. The region was multilingual at the time of the Conquest, and the people largely switched to Spanish rather than to Quechua, though Quechua also expanded during Colonial times.\n\nIn Ecuador, at the province of Loja, were Palta, Malacato, Rabona, Bolona, and Xiroa. Historical sources suggest these were closely related, and there is some evidence that Palta (see) was a Jivaroan language. The name \"Xiroa\" may be a variant of \"Jivaro\". Rabona is attested by a few words, some of which seem to be Jivaroan, but others of which appear to be Candoshí; since these are plant names, they say little about the classification of the language, and Adelaar (2004:397) leaves it unclassified. Bolona is essentially unattested.\n\nNorth of the basin were Puruhá (scarcely attested), Cañar (known primarily from characteristic place names), Panzaleo (sometimes classified as Paezan), Caranqui (until the 18th century, seemingly Barbacoan), and Pasto (Barbacoan). Apart possibly from Panzaleo, these languages have elements in common, such as a final syllable \"-pud\" and onsets \"mwe-, pwe-, bwe-\". Those suggest that they may have been related, and possibly were all Barbacoan. Adelaar (2004:397) finds this more likely than a proposal that Puruhá and Cañar were Chimuan languages (see).\n\nIn Peru, and further up in the Andes there were also numerous languages. Apart from Mochica and Cholón, the languages of northern Peru are largely unrecorded; the attested Marañón languages are Patagón (\"Patagón de Perico\"), Bagua (\"Patagón de Bagua\"), Chacha (Chachapoya), Copallén, Tabancale, Chirino, and Sácata (Chillao).\n\nPatagón (\"Patagón de Perico\", not to be confused with the Chonan languages of Tierra del Fuego and Patagonia): Four words are recorded, \"tuná\" 'water', \"anás\" 'maize', \"viue\" 'firewood', \"coará\" 'sheep' (evidently the word for 'sloth'). These suggest that Patagón was one of the Cariban languages, and therefore, like Aguaruna, from the Amazon (Adelaar 2004:405–406).\n\nBagua (\"Patagón de Bagua\") is attested by three words, \"tuna\" 'water', \"lancho\" 'maize', \"nacxé\" 'come here'. \"Tuna\" 'water' suggests it may be a Cariban language, like Patagón de Perico, but is insufficient evidence for classification.\n\n\"Chacha\" is the name sometimes given to the language of the Chachapoya culture. The Chachapoya, originally from the region of Kuelap to the east of the Marañón, were conquered by the Inca shortly before the Spanish conquest, and many were deported after the Inca Civil War. They sided with the Spanish and achieved independence for a time, but were then deported again by the Spanish, where most died of introduced disease. Their language is essentially unattested apart from toponyms and several hundred family names. Family names are mostly short and have been distorted through adaptation to Quechua; the only one which can be identified is \"Oc\" or \"Occ\" , which according to oral history means 'puma' or 'bear' (Adelaar 2004:407).\n\nChachapoya toponyms ending in \"-gach(e), -gat(e), -gote\" are found near water. Between the town of Cajamarca and the Marañón river is a similar typonymic element, attested variously as \"-cat(e), -cot(e), -gat(e), -got(e)\", with \"-cat\" found further across a wider area of northern Peru. This may be the Cholón word for water; the place name \"Salcot\" or \"Zalcot\" is found three times in Cajamarca, as well as being the name of a Cholón village meaning 'black water'.\n\nFour words are attested from Capallén (Copallín): \"quiet\" 'water', \"chumac\" 'maize', \"olaman\" 'firewood', \"ismare\" 'house'. The word for water resembles the typonymic element \"-cat\". However, this is insufficient to identify Copallén as a Cholón language.\n\nFive words are recorded: \"yema\" 'water', \"moa\" 'maize', \"oyme\" 'firewood', \"lalaque\" 'fire', \"tie\" 'house'. These do not correspond to any known language or family, so Tabancale (Tabancal) is unclassified and potentially a language isolate.\n\nThe Chirino were one of the principal peoples of the area. Based on the four words which were recorded, \"yungo\" 'water', \"yugato\" 'maize', \"xumás\" 'firewood', \"paxquiro\" 'grass', their language would appear to be related to Candoshi (Torero 1993, Adelaar 2004:406).\n\nThree words of the language of Sácata (Zácata), apparently that of the Chillao people, are recorded: \"unga\" 'water', \"umague\" 'maize', \"chichache\" 'fire'. Connections have been suggested with Candoshí (the word for water is similar to that of Chinino) and Arawakan, but the evidence is insufficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4133594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4133594", "title": "Fused grid", "text": "Fused grid\n\nThe fused grid is a street network pattern first proposed in 2002 and subsequently applied in Calgary, Alberta (2006) and Stratford, Ontario (2004). It represents a synthesis of two well known and extensively used network concepts: the \"grid\" and the \"Radburn\" pattern, derivatives of which are found in most city suburbs. Both concepts were self-conscious attempts to organize urban space for habitation. The grid was conceived and applied in the pre-automotive era of cities starting circa 2000 BC and prevailed until about 1900 AD. The Radburn pattern emerged in 1929 about thirty years following the invention of the internal combustion engine powered automobile and in anticipation of its eventual dominance as a means for mobility and transport. Both these patterns appear throughout North America. \"Fused\" refers to a systematic recombination of the essential characteristics of each of these two network patterns.\n\nModern urban planners generally classify street networks as either organic or planned. Planned networks tend to be organized according to geometric patterns, while the organic networks are believed to emerge from spontaneous, unorganized growth.\n\nArchitectural historian Spiro Kostof writes that \"The word 'grid' is a convenient, and imprecise, substitute for 'orthogonal planning'. 'Gridiron' in the US implies a pattern of long narrow blocks, and 'checkerboard' a pattern of square blocks.\" In addition to the right angle being a key characteristic, a second attribute of equal importance is its imputed openness and unconstrained expandability. Loosely interpreted, the term \"grid\" can be applied to plans such as the Vitruvian octagonal plan for an ideal city, resembling a spider web, or to plans composed of concentric circles. These are all grids in that a regularly spaced armature leaves recurring openings and that they could, conceivably, expand outward.\n\nThe emergence of the pure, rectilinear, orthogonal grid, or Hippodamian grid, is explained by the natural tendency of people to walk in a straight line, particularly in the absence of obstacles and on level land. This intuitive explanation leaves the question of pre-grid and post grid non-rectilinear city patterns to be better understood, particularly those on plane territory such as Marrakech. Another potential influence may have been exerted by the second frequent user of city streets – horses. Horses also tend to move in a straight line, particularly at trotting, canter or galloping pace. When horses serve a city and draw chariots singly or in pairs, or, similarly, carts for a variety of transportation and processional functions, straight line travel becomes imperative; turns force a sluggish pace and cumbersome manoeuvres that reduce their efficiency of movement. The need for speed is accentuated by city size; distances to the public functions at the centre increase and, consequently, the need for quick access is intensified. Speed in turn implies straight lines. It is plausible that the drivers for rectilinear layouts may have been man's horses, mules, and carts as much as man himself, spurred by the growth of settlements.\nThe creation of the Radburn pattern is attributed to Clarence Stein but has a lineage of ideas that preceded it in Raymond Unwin and Barry Parker's work that included the use of cul-de-sac and crescent street types. In contrast to the scarcity of records that obscures the original rationale for the grid, the reasons for the Radburn pattern have been articulated clearly in Stein's writings and those of his predecessors.\n\"Radburn\" (after a place in New Jersey) now denotes a street network configuration. It signifies a departure from the strict orthogonal geometry and regularity of the grid and a distinct approach to laying out new districts. As a system, it can be described more accurately as a \"cellular\" network that has a characteristic hierarchy of streets as distinct from identical streets intersecting at regular intervals. Its derivatives and idiosyncratic imitations are often characterized as \"cul-de-sac and loop\" patterns highlighting the distinguishing street types that are used systematically in this network. A second term equally uncharacteristic is \"suburban\". This association of a pattern with a location is inaccurate and unintentionally misleading: entire early cities such as Cairo and Fez are structured on this pattern whose newer suburbs follow the grid reversing the urban/suburban relationship. \"Suburban\" is also devoid of geometric descriptors of the pattern. These shorthand expressions conceal the variety of patterns that emerged in the 20th century that are decidedly neither grids nor \"Radburn\" and the \"system\" aspect of the pattern. The \"loop and lollipop\" label may be a more applicable descriptor of later interpretations of the Radburn model that appear to lack structure and to overlook key elements of the original concept such as its emphasis on pedestrian priority, for example. The pattern's systematic use of the cul-de-sac and loop is decidedly linked to automotive mobility as a means of controlling and guiding its flow. The Radburn pattern is a complex system; more than a series of identical orthogonal city blocks in a linear progression. It rests on a functional program plus an intentional picturesque aesthetic: it avoids straight lines, limits four-way intersections and shuns repetitive blocks all of which enhance its picturesque imagery. To facilitate the discussion, the name \"Radburn-like\" or \"Radburn-type\" will be used in the subsequent sections.\n\nThe two dominant network patterns, the grid and Radburn, have been debated by planners, transportation engineers and social observers on grounds that include issues of defence, aesthetics, adaptability, sociability, mobility, health, safety, security and environmental impact.\n\nThe first known criticism of the grid was put forward on the grounds of defence that became irrelevant following the prevalence of the cannon (1500s). Aristotle argued that the old maze-like street pattern which preceded the grid, made it difficult for invading troops to find their way in and out of the city, Alberti also expressed the same view 1500 years later and added the advantage of a superior visual effect of the organic pattern over the grid.\nA second criticism was put forward most forcefully by Camillo Sitte on aesthetic grounds. He argued that grids lack variety and, consequently, are uninteresting and can become oppressive by their monotony. This argument has been undermined first by the potential variety of grid dimensions that can be used in combinations such as appear in many city plans. More importantly, ground observation of cities shows that the mix of buildings and their varied street alignments as well as open spaces with their size variations coupled with constant redevelopment, suppress the monotony of the grid. Nonetheless, 20th century planners shunned pure grids and implicitly endorsed C. Sitte's ideas on the need for a picturesque streetscape. This tendency is generally based on an intuitive aesthetic ground; that people dislike long open street vistas and prefer those that terminate. Recent subdivision or town layouts such as Poundbury(1993), Seaside(1984) and Kentlands(1995) consciously avoided the homogenous grid and its open vistas. \nA further criticism of the grid focuses on its unsuitability for uneven, variegated terrain. Its application in sites such as Priene (350 BC), Piraeus (circa 400 BC), San Francisco (1776), Saint John, NB (1631) and others severely limits general accessibility by inadvertently introducing steep slopes or, in certain cases, stepped road sections and creates construction difficulties. In cities with intemperate climates this limitation is accentuated. Moving in a straight line uphill becomes arduous or, occasionally, impossible, particularly for non-motorized wheeled means of transport.\nA Radburn-type network inherently includes a variety of city blocks and terminating vistas and, consequently, pre-empts criticism centered on monotony and lack of end-closure. Its unconstrained geometry adapts easily to topographical irregularities and geographical features such as streams, woodlots and natural ponds. As neither the alignment nor the length of neighbourhood streets need to remain constant, this model gives planners considerable latitude in laying out a network.\n\nTwo newer aesthetic criticisms of the Radburn model emerged in the 1980s: the absence of a street \"wall\" or \"enclosure\" and the repetitiveness of housing unit forms as found in suburban districts. Both these criticisms can be understood as a misapplication of aesthetic norms on socio-economic outcomes. The spaciousness of housing developments at the city's edge echoes the spaciousness of contemporary houses and are both driven not by aesthetic intent but by economic prosperity. Judging the visual outcome of prosperity using historic streetscape criteria of cities with a different socioeconomic makeup would make the verdict predictable and practically meaningless.\nMoreover, the \"street wall\" and \"enclosure\" criticism of the Radburn pattern applications are undermined by observation of city districts new and old. Close examination would reveal that these spatial qualities are inextricably linked to housing unit and population density as well as construction technology and are not necessarily the outcome of a street pattern: The higher the habitation density of the street (and town) the closer and taller the buildings have to be to accommodate more people. A street pattern does not induce either unit density or the visual wall effect. For example, in earlier cities with labyrinthine street layouts, analogous to some contemporary suburban districts, residential buildings were agglutinated creating an entire perimeter wall around the city block with few perforations for reasons of security, safety and a heightened sense of privacy, not streetscape aesthetic. Conversely, early founded cities in North America, where land was almost free but construction costly, are depicted with generous lot dimensions and very small houses on them (e.g. Salt Lake City) that created a weak \"enclosure\" vertically and horizontally. At both ends of the streetscape scale, very proximate and very sparse buildings, socio-economic factors drive the outcome.\nRegarding repetitiveness of housing form, ground observation shows no relation to street pattern. Homogeneity correlates better with methods of production. Early agglutinated housing forms as in Pompeii and Tunis, with vastly different street patterns, presented no face on the street by which design differences could be discerned; plain and luxurious houses had the same nondescript, blank street face. In recent times, older streets of more recent cities with a grid show considerable replication, based on vernacular and pattern books, as do newer streets on the fringe, based on industrialization. What has impacted the urban landscape appreciably is the scale of production: many single operators in earlier periods with small yearly output versus few large corporations by mid-20th century with high annual production volumes. Inevitably, the larger the operation is, the greater the economies of repetition are. Similar house models can be found not only in the same subdivision but across states and even nations. For example, veterans housing that was built in Canada consists of two or three models that were repeated in neighbourhoods and across the country. The most impressive effect of large-scale production is starkly visible in Levittown, New York (1947) and in social housing projects, where the State also aims at economies of scale. In the case of early Huguenot settlements, sameness of houses on identical grid patterns was pursued as a means of expressing the social equality of all inhabitants – a community goal.\n\nDerivatives and variations of the Radburn street network pattern, collectively \"the suburbs\", have been criticized on the grounds of their relative low density. The low density criticism appears to be based on a historical coincidence mistaken for causality: most low density housing developments occurred in the 20th century at the periphery of existing cities after 1950 and intentionally incorporated cul-de-sac or looped streets (Radburn-inspired street types) regularly. By contrast, dense development occurred earlier (and continues) in city central areas most of which were laid on a grid pattern in the 19th century or earlier. This topological coincidence of pattern and density can be easily mistaken as a causal relationship. Radburn (1929), a suburb, was built at a density (19 persons per acre) higher than subsequent suburbs such as Kentlands (14 persons per acre) that were laid out on a grid-type pattern. Also, many early grid-plan towns and suburbs such as Windermere, Florida, Dauphin, Manitoba, and St. Andrews, New Brunswick exhibit grid layouts and very low densities. Conversely, incidental cul-de-sac and crescent streets in central areas show high densities. Examples of unusual, unconventional associations of density and street type demonstrate that street patterns are coincidentally, not causally, related to housing density. Any given street pattern can be built at a predetermined density.\n\nQuestions have been raised about the potential effect that the street patterns of a neighbourhood may play a role in the frequency that its homes are targets of theft and property damage. These questions were prompted by the apparent higher concentration of such events in certain neighbourhoods over the general average. This potential connection has been debated extensively. Factors such as sample size, analytical methods and the inclusion or omission of socio-demographic profiles of offenders, victims and neighbourhoods can confound the research outcomes. Yet some tentative correlations have been discerned.\n\nExperiments are rarely possible in existing neighbourhoods where the street pattern, the properties and the residents are given and inalterable. One such rare experiment, however, was tried in Five Oaks, Dayton, Ohio. A \"troubled\" neighbourhood's street pattern was converted from the regular grid to an interrupted grid resembling the Radburn pattern. The transformed layout was made discontinuous for cars but continuous for pedestrians through the use of connected cul-de-sacs. Following the change, the drop in antisocial incidents was substantial and immediate suggesting that the Radburn-like pattern contributed to it since all other factors remained practically unchanged. Observational studies rest on cross-sectional statistical analysis of neighbourhoods to derive potential correlations between street patterns and the level of antisocial incidents. One such study concluded that:\n\nIt also re-established that simple, linear cul-de-sac streets with good numbers of dwellings that are joined to through streets tend to be safe. \nOf the five concluding observations three are unrelated to network pattern, indicating the overriding role of socio-economic factors. The consensus among researchers is that streets patterns in themselves cannot be seen as crimino-genic. The genesis of crime rests elsewhere. Of the factors that assist the intent for crime, however, unconstrained permeability appears the most influential. The Radburn pattern restricts permeability while the uniform grid enables it.\n\nMore significant criticisms of the grid and the Radburn patterns were put forward based on the new urban transportation context of unprecedented levels of motorised mobility that raises issues of traffic congestion, collisions, accessibility, connectivity, legibility for pedestrian and driver, noise disturbance, car travel extent, air and water pollution, and greenhouse gas emissions. The importance of these criticisms rests on judging the functional adequacy of alternative networks regarding these aspects. Dysfunctional systems could entail heavy economic and social burdens that may be avoidable.\n\nThe introduction of mechanized personal transport in large numbers during the 20th century tested every existing network's characteristics and their capacity to function satisfactorily for mobility and for city living in general. And since most cities where the motorcar first appeared had a grid layout,(e.g. New York, Chicago, and London) it was inevitably the first network pattern to experience its impact.\n\nThe grid's emergence in a pedestrian world, in which wheeled traffic of horse-drawn carts was limited, along with its extensive replication, attest indirectly to its functional adequacy for pedestrian movement. The new question about its adequacy for serving motorized movement and for serving both prime modes, motorized and non-motorized in combination, continues to be debated.\n\nEarly signs of a potential drawback of the orthogonal grid layout in serving wheeled traffic were discovered in Pompeii, Italy; at certain intersections left turns were prohibited and some streets or sections of others were decreed one-way. Contemporary traffic engineering recommends these measures to decrease congestion and improve flow in Centertown grids and have been applied extensively. It is worth noting that, the Pompeii restrictions occurred at horse and wagon speeds in the range of 5 to 10 km/hr, far below car speeds. Definitive proof of this deficiency, however, appeared 20 centuries later, when speeds and volumes of traffic reached critical thresholds and analysis of large numbers of data became computerized. However, a new complicating factor surfaced through adaptation.\n\nOperational methods to control the flow of traffic and avoid collisions were introduced and grew steadily in sophistication, from traffic signs to computer-controlled, time-orchestrated systems. While the necessity of these adaptations provides practical proof of the grid's inadequacy to serve motorized transport unaided, their introduction made theoretical proof harder. Highly advanced computer modeling of traffic flows overcame this difficulty.\nAnother complicating factor in the early stages of motorization was the absence of a characteristic and typical alternative network pattern for a comparative analysis. Unlike the clear geometry of the grid, idiosyncratic, peculiar and site specific layouts, that have no obvious elements of a 'pattern' or 'stencil', cannot be accurately described and generalized. The only distinguishing element of current alternatives is their loose dendrite configuration, which is inherently hierarchical, that could be contrasted with the grid's inherent absence of hierarchy. Since in built districts neither of these networks appears in pure form, another level of complexity is introduced that tempers the certainty of analytical findings.\n\nOf two studies that have attempted the comparison between \"Radburn-type\" and \"grid-type\" networks, one is based on two hypothetical layouts for a specific site and the second on an existing district layout and two hypothetical overlays. The relationship of congestion to layout geometry and density have been tested using computer-based traffic modeling. The first study, reported in 1990 compared the traffic performance in a 700-acre (2.8 km2) development that was laid out using two approaches, one with a hierarchical street layout that included cul-de-sac streets and the other a traditional grid. The study concluded that the non-hierarchical, traditional layout generally shows lower peak speeds and shorter, but more frequent intersection delays than the hierarchical pattern. The traditional pattern is not as friendly to the long trips as the hierarchical but friendlier to short trips. Local trips in it are shorter in distance but about equivalent in time with the hierarchical layout.\n\nA second extensive comparative traffic study of a subdivision about 830 acres (3.4 km2) tested three network models. It also tested the resilience of the layouts to an increased traffic load generated by higher residential densities. This study confirmed the previous findings that up to a density of 70 ppha (including jobs), which is above the average range of subdivision densities of 35 to 55 ppha, the grid layout had a marginally higher or equal delay per trip to the Radburn-type network. At a 90 ppha, the conventional pattern showed marginally higher delay per trip than the grid. This outcome suggests that within the normal range of residential subdivision densities the grid has a slight disadvantage, but under very dense conditions the slight advantage reverses in favour of the grid-type and that both may be subject to improvement.\n\nThe grid's traffic safety performance in comparison to other network types has been studied extensively and a general consensus is emerging both in theory and practice that, in general, it is the least safe of all currently used network patterns. A 1995 study found significant differences in recorded accidents between residential neighbourhoods that were laid out on a grid and those that included cul-de-sacs and crescents. The frequency of accidents was measurably higher in the grid neighbourhoods.\n\nTwo subsequent studies examined the frequency of collisions in two regional districts using the latest analytical tools. They investigated the potential correlation between street network patterns and frequency of collisions. In one 2006 study, cul-de-sac networks appeared to be much safer than grid networks, by nearly three to one. A second 2008 study found the grid plan to be the least safe by a significant margin with respect to all other street patterns in the set. A 2009 study suggests that land use patterns play a significant role in traffic safety and should be considered in conjunction with the network pattern. While land use matters, intersection types also affect traffic safety. Intersections in general reduce the incidence of fatal crashes due to reductions in speed, but four-way intersections, which occur regularly in a grid, increase total and injurious crashes significantly, all other things being equal. The study recommends hybrid street networks with dense concentrations of T-intersections and concludes that a return to the 19th century gridiron is undesirable.\n\nImproved traffic safety has been shown to result from modifications to existing neighbourhoods laid out on a grid, indirectly suggesting its weakness with respect to safety. One study of the impacts of modifications found that Area-wide urban traffic-calming schemes reduce the number of injury accidents by about 15 percent on average. The largest reduction of accidents is found for residential streets (about 25 percent); a somewhat smaller (about 10%) reduction is found for main roads.\n\nFollowing the introduction of motorized transport, pedestrians do not fare well in cities. Their space and freedom of movement has gradually been curtailed and the risk of injury increased. They are now seen and studied as Vulnerable Road Users (VRU) along with bicycle riders because of their overwhelming disadvantage in the case of a collision.\n\nPedestrians experience stress and delay at every intersection, particularly when their mobility has been compromised either temporarily or through the aging process. A delay is unwelcome to pedestrians given that their slow speed and limited range of reach; the more frequent the intersections the higher the delay. \nGiven the grid's origin as a network for pedestrian movement, it is important to understand how it serves pedestrians when it must synchronously serve vehicular traffic. A 2010 study concluded that of seven network patterns, including the Radburn-type pattern, the grid was the least safe for vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and bicycles.\n\nUniform grids with fixed cardinal directions can be mapped as easily on paper as on the mind. This quality — legibility — assists people in finding destinations and prevents the apprehension of being lost. However, this benefit is felt more by visitors to a district than by its residents. Many historic cities with labyrinthine plans, particularly in the medieval period and in the Islamic-Arab world, cause no anxiety to their permanent residents. (Some visitors, equipped with maps, see them as a delightful journey of discovery.) Many parts of Paris, France, for example, exhibit a highly irregular block dimensions and a wide range of street orientations not easily grasped by visitors. Residents quickly acquire many perceptual clues of direction and position without ever seeing printed maps of their domains and, in earlier times, without even the benefit of street signs. Legibility can be an advantage but it is not a necessary condition for a neighbourhood or a town to function well for its residents. While the uniform grid offers utmost legibility, mutated grids and other patterns can function adequately for finding directions.\n\nWalkability, a neologism, refers to those characteristics of an area which enable or hinder one's ability to walk around. More specifically, \"walkable\" means close; barrier-free; safe; full of pedestrian infrastructure and destinations; and upscale, leafy, or cosmopolitan. Of these characteristics some are related to the street network configuration, such as \"close\" and \"pedestrian infrastructure\" while others relate to land use and level of amenity such as destinations and sidewalks. The uniform grid's inherent high frequency and openness makes closeness easily achievable as the chosen routes can be direct. In its central city expression blocks are generally short and equipped with a sidewalk on each side. Suburban grids, however, often depart from the classic square block and include long orthogonal blocks and sidewalks only on one side or none at all. Similarly contemporary versions of the classic Radburn and Hampstead Garden Suburb do not always include pedestrian linkages that were present in the original. They too lack sidewalks, mostly to reduce costs but also on the assumption that resident traffic is low enough for the road pavement to be shared by all without risk.\n\nPublished studies examined the relative connectivity of neighbourhoods built following the grid stencil or the Radburn-type pattern. \nA 1970 study compared Radburn to two other communities, one, Radburn-type (Reston, Virginia) and a second, a nearby unplanned community. It found that 47% of Radburn's residents shopped for groceries on foot, while comparable figures were 23% for Reston and only 8% for the second community. A 2003 study also compared Radburn (1929) to a neo-traditional development (1990). It found that the rates of connectivity differed with the destination. Shopping was considerably more direct and closer in Radburn while the elementary school was just as direct in both but at a marginally longer distance in Radburn. Accessibility to the park was virtually the same. Overall, walkability was marginally better in the Radburn neighbourhood.\n\nA 2010 study, compared eight neighbourhoods of which four followed the grid network rules while the remainder adhered to the Radburn-type network structure. Connectivity, values ranged between 0.71 and 0.82, with the upper limit being 1.00. The grid-like set had two samples above the 0.76 average and one below, while the Radburn-type set had one above average and two below. The amount of walking did not correlate well with the connectivity values indicating that other factors were at play. Walking correlated better when the additional pedestrian infrastructure, independent paths was included. These results confirmed previous findings that while connectivity, the essential characteristic of the grid, is a necessary condition for walkability it is not sufficient by itself to entice walking.\n\nA third study compared seven neighbourhoods by examining their walking and driving activity as an indicator or a network's propensity to entice walking. Using the agent-based modeling method it calculated the amount of walking under identical land use conditions. The traditional uniform grid, two Radburn-type patterns and one neo-traditional grid had lower levels of walking activity than a second version of the neo-traditional grid and the fused grid. Overall the Radburn-type networks had lower average walking scores and higher driving activity. These results show that the influence of the street network on walkability is clearly evident but also dependent on the specific characteristics of its geometry.\n\nAlthough the grid was introduced long before any system of public transit would become necessary or available, its strict regularity provides sufficient flexibility for mapping transit routes. By contrast, derivatives of the Radburn-type network, particularly the non-cellular and strictly dendrite variety, are inflexible and force transit routes that are often long and circuitous resulting in an inefficient and costly service.\n\nUntil the second half of the 20th century, the prime purpose of linking people to places has also been the prime criterion for judging a network's performance. New criteria surfaced when questions about the impact of development on the environment were raised. In that new context, a network's land consumption; its adaptability to the land's natural features; the degree of water impermeability it introduces; whether it lengthens trips and how it affects the production of greenhouse gases constitute part of a new set of criteria.\n\nTypical, uniform grids are unresponsive to topography. Priene's plan, for example, is set on a hillside and most of its north-south streets are stepped, a feature that would have made them inaccessible to carts, chariots, and loaded animals. Cities established more recently have utilized a similar approach to Priene's, for example: San Francisco, Vancouver, and Saint John, New Brunswick. In a modern context, steep grades limit accessibility by car and more so by bicycle, on foot, or wheelchair, particularly in cold climates. The strict orthogonal geometry forces roads and lots over creeks, marshes, and woodlots, thus disturbing the local ecology. It is said of the 1811 NY grid plan that it flattened all obstacles in its way.\nBy contrast, the unconstrained geometry of the Radburn-type networks provides sufficient flexibility to accommodate natural features.\n\nDepending on the choice of street pattern and the cross section of the street space, streets consume an average 26% of the total developed land. They can range from 20% to over 40%. For example, the Portland grid consumes 41% of the development land in street Right-of-Ways (ROW). At the low end of usage, Stein's Radburn neighbourhood uses about 24% of the total. Villages and towns with narrow streets (2 to 3 m wide) consume much less.\n\nActual layouts of specific districts show variability within that range due to site-specific conditions and network pattern idiosyncrasies. Land taken up by streets becomes unavailable for development; its use is inefficient since it stays empty for most of the time. Were it to be developed, less land would be required for the same number housing units, resulting in lowering the pressure to consume more of it.\n\nA 2007 study compared alternative layout plans for a 3.4 square kilometre subdivision and found that the traditional grid layout had 43 percent more land dedicated to roads than the conventional Radburn-type network.\n\nAll new development, irrespective of its network pattern, alters the pre-existing natural condition of a site and its ability to absorb and recycle rain water. Roads are a major factor in limiting absorption by the sheer amount of impermeable surfaces they introduce. They affect water usability by the generation of road surface pollutants that end up downstream making it unfit for direct use.\n\nThe grid's inherent high street and intersection frequencies produce large areas of impermeable surfaces in street pavement and sidewalks. In comparison to networks with discontinuous street types, that are characteristic of the Radburn pattern, grids can have up to 30% percent more impermeable surface attributable to roads. One study compared alternative layouts on a 155 ha (383 acre) site and found that the grid-type layout had 17% more impermeable surface area in total compared to the Radburn-type layout.\n\nEmissions from all transportation account for about 30% of the total from all sources and personal car use amounts to about 60% percent of that share that translates to about 18% percent of the total GHG production. Three factors that affect emissions from personal travel relate to network configuration and function: a) trip length b) speed of travel c) propensity for congestion. Studies have shown that Radburn-type networks could add up to 10 percent to the length of local, short trips. As was seen earlier under congestion, grid-type patterns induce longer trip times that are primarily due to stops at the characteristic and frequent four-way intersections.\n\nA 2007 study compared total traveled kilometres and total estimated emissions. Regarding the trip length, it confirmed previous studies by finding a 6% increase in local VKTs in the Radburn-type layout. The emissions comparison excluded CO2 and focused on three noxious (criteria) gases. Totalling the estimated cost of these emissions for ease of comparison, it found a 5% increase in costs for the conventional Radburn type layout.\n\nWith the prevalence of motorized mobility, street infrastructure represents the single largest component of capital outlays for building a new neighbourhood. Until the end of the 19th century most city streets were unpaved, had no drainage sewers, few were lit, and hardly any had signage. Also, the majority were narrow by contemporary standards, frequently without sidewalks. Consequently, they consumed few resources for construction and maintenance. By contrast, current street design standards necessitate a large investment for construction and significant city budget allocations for their maintenance.\nA 2008 engineering study compared network patterns for the same district and found that the traditional, modified grid network (TND) pattern had about 46% higher costs for road infrastructure compared to the Radburn-type of the existing layout.\n\nThese figures exclude the opportunity cost attributable to land that becomes unavailable for private use. The Radburn-type layout has approximately 30% less land dedicated to roads than the Neo-traditional layout. When accounting for this land and using a cost of $162,000 per hectare ($40,000/acre (2007 Dollars), land costs for roadways increase the relative cost for road infrastructure from a difference of 46% to 53% between the two layouts.\n\nThe same study examined the lifecycle costs for the two network options and found that, similar to the capital costs, roads remain the key cost component of a community when accounting for on-going operations, maintenance and replacement costs.\n\nIn judging the two currently disputed network concepts it would appear that neither has all the requisite elements needed for adequately responding to the new urban transportation context of extensive motorized mobility. The Radburn pattern fares better overall since it was consciously designed \"for the motor age\". Similarly, the weaker overall performance of the grid can be understood as innate, given its origin in a predominantly pedestrian world.\n\nAdvantages of a Radburn-like pattern:\n\nAdvantages of a grid-like network:\n\nTo function well, a contemporary network must include these advantages from the contrasting patterns thus reducing frictions and conflicts in urban environments. The need for an alternative has been evident since the middle of the 20th century for practical and theoretical considerations.\nIn practice, in the second half of the 20th century citizens of many American and European cities have protested against the intrusion of through traffic in their neighbourhoods. Its side-effects were unwelcome as being detrimental to peace, tranquility, health, and safety. In response, cities introduced an armoury of controls to ensure that residential districts retained a high standard of life quality. Among these controls were one-way streets, closures, half-closures, traffic circles, and a liberal use of stop signs. These measures being improvised retrofits implied the need for a network pattern in which techniques such as these would be obviated by innovative design.\nOn the theoretical level, planners analysed the conflicts caused by the new urban mobility, proposed alternative schemes and, in some cases, applied them. Alexander proposed (1977) a genetic code of 10 \"patterns\" which, when combined would resolve identified conflicts and would produce a convivial, gratifying district milieu. A central idea among them is a traffic impermeable neighbourhood area of about 10 ha, reminiscent of the Radburn plan principle but smaller in size.\nDoxiadis emphasized the importance of mobility and designed a large orthogonal grid (2 km by 2 km) of arterials to expedite circulation, as seen in Islamabad. He also recognized the need to separate \"man from machine\" and introduced traffic-impermeable neighbourhoods also generally resembling the Radburn plan.\n\nBased on these sets of issues, the identified advantages of alternative patterns and the ideas of 20th century theorists, the fused grid assembles several elements from these precedents into a complete stencil. Just as the grid stencil and the Radburn pattern did, it sets up a geometric structure that exhibits the key characteristics of a functioning system. It consists of a large-scale open grid of collector streets, carrying moderate speed motorized traffic. This grid forms precincts (quadrants, neighbourhoods) that are normally about 16 ha (40 acres) in size (400 m by 400 m). Within each precinct, the layout uses crescents or cul-de-sacs or a combination of both to eliminate through traffic. In addition, a continuous open-space and pedestrian path system provides direct access to parks, public transit, retail, and community facilities. Residents can cross a quadrant block on foot in about five minutes. The most intensive land uses such as schools, community facilities, high-density residential uses, and retail are located in the center of the plan, reached by twinned roads which connect longer, district destination points.\n\nThis synthesis of inherited network traditions and ideas is accomplished through the application of two practical means: a rectilinear, orthogonal geometry, a key characteristic of the grid, and the use of two street types that have generally been associated with the Radburn-type subdivisions. \nThe orthogonal geometry serves two purposes: a) to enhance the navigability of the network structure particularly at the district and regional scale. This is important at car speeds where decisions about destinations and turns have to be made promptly. b) to maintain a good level of safety at road intersections, as recommended by traffic engineering manuals. \nThe grid's second essential characteristic, connectivity, is recaptured through a third element that completes the \"system\" – pedestrian-only connectors between regular streets that are intended for all movement modes. These connectors (paths) are typically routed through open spaces that occupy central points in a neighbourhood cell. Thus the neighbourhood street network comprises a mixture of streets; some pedestrian dominant and others car dominant. \nA fourth element is the nested hierarchy of streets that distinguishes between connectivity and permeability at the neighbourhood level. This idea reflects the fact the longer the linked destinations the higher the level of mobility must be. A dendrite configuration, such as a river, takes progressively wider expanses of land to accommodate the flow. A nested hierarchy on the other hand distributes the flow at each volume level to alternative paths. The complete system, though it may appear unfamiliar, is composed of entirely familiar and extensively used elements in contemporary development.\n\nThe model has been applied in two new communities, one in Stratford, ON and the other in Calgary, Alberta. The potential merits of the concept so far have been tested through research; site observations or measurements will await full build-out. The aspects of the model that have been tested correspond to the key criteria of performance, listed above, such as mobility, safety, cost, and environmental impact.\n\nA study on the transportation impacts of the fused grid asserted through comparative analysis using computer-based traffic modeling that the fused grid produces the least total delay in all four density scenarios tested and performed progressively better as the density increased. Taking the fused grid as 100 (base), the delay was 32% more for the conventional Radburn-type pattern and 27% higher for the grid-type pattern. At the next higher density level the difference between patterns increased and they were correspondingly 100 (fused grid), 152 (Radburn-type) and 126 (grid -type). Traffic modeling shows the potential of the fused grid to reduce time delay during peak hours and, therefore, congestion.\n\nIn a fused grid, three-way intersections are more common than four-way, which have been shown by traffic studies to be less safe.\nOne study found that for each probable collision in the fused grid there would be 2.55 collisions in a standard grid, 2.39 in a layout designed to Dutch \"sustainable road safety\" guidelines, 1.46 in a cul-de-sac layout and 0.88 in a 3-way Offset layout.\n\nAn extensive study of neighbourhoods based on geo-coded trips to local destinations found that a fused grid type of layout increases home-base walking trips by 11.3% in comparison to the conventional grid and it is associated with a 25.9% increase in the odds that residents will meet the recommended physical activity levels. Its 10% increase in relative connectivity for pedestrians is associated with a 23% decrease in vehicle kilometres of local travel.\nA second study compared seven neighbourhoods of different street network layouts for the daily travel patterns including the amount of walking that occurred. It found that the fused grid had considerably more walking activity. The set of network patterns included two versions of the traditional grid, two versions of post-war suburbs, two versions of the Traditional Neighbourhood Development (i.e. modified grid) and the fused frid. The lowest amount of walking was found to happen in one of the post-war conventional subdivision. Setting this as the base (100) for the purpose of comparison, the two classic grids registered 11%, one conventional subdivision 109%, one TND neighbourhood 108%, the second TND 137% and the fused grid 143%. In terms of the total distance walked, the fused grid registered 23% larger distance than the lowest of the seven in the set which was also reflected in the lowest amount of local driving.\n\nThe fused grid anticipates the location of convenience shopping and amenities at the periphery of the four-quadrant neighbourhood. In such a configuration any part of the neighbourhood is a five-minute walk to the periphery and a ten-minute walk across the entire neighbourhood. Closeness of destinations is inherent in the structure of the network. The same structure, based on 400 m intervals, coincides with current practices for transit route location.\nConsequently, the street network pattern, the anticipated land use distribution and the location of transit stops are all conducive to walking.\n\nNeighbourhood layouts may indirectly influence the health and wellbeing of residents through their effect on factors such as noise, air quality, and physical activity. Noise levels and duration of exposure correlate with traffic volume and speed. According to a traffic analysis study neighbourhood streets in the fused grid layout exhibit the lowest traffic volumes when compared to alternative layouts. By inference, low volumes imply lower duration of exposure to noise. Frequent turns in the streets (see drawing of approved development plan) result in speed reduction which lowers noise intensity. As a consequence of low traffic volumes, its residential streets show low air pollution levels. The high walking levels registered by the fused grid layout, mentioned above, indicate the potential of increased physical activity.\n\nIn addition to these three factors that may impact on resident's health - noise, air quality, and physical activity - a fourth one, proximity to natural open spaces, has emerged as a significant contributor. Previous studies have confirmed the beneficial effect of frequent contact with nature and some have investigated the probable mechanism of the effect via stress abating biochemical processes. More recently, links were established to specific biota (microorganisms) found in nature and their direct influence on building immune system strength.\nFrom these studies it can be inferred that a neighbourhood layout based on the fused grid model may confer these health and well-being benefits to residents because it incorporates green open spaces as integral parts of its pedestrian circulation network. Inclusion of green spaces is possible in any layout as an option; in the fused grid it is a necessary component of its configuration.\n\nThe virtual grid mesh that underlies the fused grid network structure is expressed at 400 m intervals, five times the size of the traditional city block (about 80 m). At this scale there is greater flexibility to adapt the network elements to the topography and to specific site boundary constraints that are common in property configurations. Within the 16 ha quadrant, the discontinuous character of the streets and the possible combination of cul-de-sac and loop types provide sufficient latitude to the site plan designer to lay out an adapted version of the fused grid. There are at least 15 variations of the quadrant design that can be moulded to fit specific conditions. \nThe site adaptability of the model has been demonstrated in the two approved layout plans.\n\nOne study quantified the relative permeability of three alternative site plans for the same site. The analysis results show that the impermeable areas of the three layouts - assuming roads, building foot prints and sidewalks to be impervious surfaces - ranged from 34.7% of fused grid to 35.8% of the conventional suburban to 39% of the grid-like pattern. Streets were the single most influential factor in the amount of the water runoff. They account for an impermeable surface which is up to three times that of the building footprint. Of the total impermeable area in the three layouts the portion attributable to streets ranges from 48 to 65 percent with the fused grid occupying the low end. The reduction in street length and the systematic use of open spaces as structural elements of the layout increase the potential of greater water permeability in the Fused Grid.\n\nA study compared the cost efficiency of three network patterns in improving the traffic performance of a district. It first established the cost of the network system of each before evaluating the efficiency ratio for the resulting traffic improvement. The analysis showed that the most significant capital cost of development is for roads. The conventional layout has the lowest capital costs for roads followed by the fused grid at 12% higher and the Neo-traditional (grid) layout at 46% higher. \nWhen considering the opportunity cost for land dedicated to right-of-ways (ROW), the fused grid allocated 9% more land to roads than the conventional grid, while the neo-traditional grid allocated 43% more. Similar to capital costs, roads remain the key cost component of community development after accounting for on-going operations, maintenance, and replacement costs.\n\nThe study showed that there are significant differences in costs related to travel delay for the total road network particularly at the desirable transit-supportive densities. The delay costs incurred by the conventional layout are 12% higher than the fused grid followed by the Neotraditional grid at 3% higher. The conventional layout is less cost-efficient than the fused grid network since they have similar infrastructure costs but the latter delivers significant savings in travel time costs. The travel time benefits of the neo-traditional grid layout are disproportional to the required infrastructure investment. The obvious benefits of saving time for pedestrians and the enticement of more walking have not so far been monetized.\n\nRetroactive application of the fused grid model can be seen in the centres of old European cities, such as Munich, Essen, and Freiburg and in newer railway towns or suburbs such as Vauban, Freiburg and Houten in the Netherlands. In most of these cases, acknowledging the constrains of an existing built environment, the key fused grid characteristic of a traffic impermeable centre is evident along with the primacy and continuity of pedestrian-only links to the remainder of the inherited street system. The fused grid is promoted in Canada by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation.\n\nA similar debate has also been taking place in Europe and particularly the UK, where the term filtered permeability was coined to describe urban layouts which maximise ease of movement for pedestrians and cyclists, but seek to restrain it for motor vehicles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21793122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21793122", "title": "Gamal Helal", "text": "Gamal Helal\n\nGamal Helal (born March 22, 1954) is a Coptic-American interpreter and diplomat who has translated for several American presidents and Secretaries of State.\n\nHelal, a Coptic Christian was born in Asyut, Egypt in 1954 and went on to study at Assiut University, where he earned a B.A. When he was 21 years of age, Helal left Egypt for the United States; studying at Vermont's School for International Training, he received an M.A. in cross-culture communication. In 1983 Helal officially became a U.S. citizen. \n\nHe began his diplomatic career in the mid-1980s when he joined the United States Department of State. In the lead up to the Gulf War, Helal interpreted for Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Iraqi emissary Tariq Aziz at a meeting in Geneva, Switzerland, at which time Aziz was presented with an ultimatum to withdraw troops from Kuwait.\n\nBy 1993 he was a senior diplomatic interpreter, and later senior policy adviser to Dennis Ross, then the special Middle East coordinator under President Bill Clinton. Ross, reflecting on his engagement in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, stated that \"Most of my meetings with Yasser Arafat would start off with my delegation, but the real work would be done with just Arafat, me and Gamal.\" At the end of Clinton's term, Helal interpreted between him and Yasser Arafat during peace talks at Camp David, and was once tasked to speak alone with Arafat to try and convince him of the opportunity of the Israeli offer. \n\nHelal continued to work under President George W. Bush and with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and was an interpreter and senior adviser on the Middle East for the Barack Obama administration until he left in October 2009 to launch his own consulting business, named Helal Enterprises.\n"}
{"id": "3434018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3434018", "title": "Gaudapada", "text": "Gaudapada\n\nGauḍapāda (c.6th century CE), also referred as , was an early medieval era Hindu philosopher and scholar of the Vedanta school of Hindu philosophy. While details of his biography are uncertain, his ideas inspired others such as Adi Shankara who called him a \"Paramaguru\" (highest teacher).\n\nGaudapada was the author or compiler of the \"\", also known as \"Gaudapada Karika\". The text consists of four chapters (also called four books), of which Chapter Four uses Buddhist terminology thereby showing it was influenced by Buddhism. However, doctrinally Gaudapada's work is Vedantin, and not Buddhist. The first three chapters of Gaudapada's text have been influential in the Advaita Vedanta tradition. Parts of the first chapter that include the \"Mandukya Upanishad\" have been considered a valid scriptural source by the Dvaita and Vishistadvaita schools of Vedanta, but nothing from chapter four with Buddhist flavor has found acceptance or use in the Vedanta school of Hinduism.\n\nThe century in which Gaudapada lived and his life details are uncertain. Estimates vary from early 6th to 7th century CE. He is generally dated from estimates for Adi Shankara, whose teacher Govinda Bhagavatpada is presumed to be the direct disciple of Gaudapada. Shankara in some texts, refers to Gaudapada as the \"teacher's teacher\" who knows the tradition of the Vedānta (sampradāya-vit). Assuming how long each lived and when, Gaudapada is estimated to have lived sometime in the 7th century CE. Alternatively, states Potter, the phrase \"teacher's teacher\" should not be taken literally, and more in the sense of another phrase he uses for Gaudapada, namely \"Paramaguru\" (highest teacher). He may have been the guru of Sankara's teacher, but was likely a more distant guru, states Michael Comans (aka Vasudevacharya).\n\nAnother estimate places him around the early 6th century. This estimate is based on Buddhist literature, and particularly those of scholars Bhavaviveka, Santaraksita and Kamalasila who cite \"Gauḍapada kārikās\". Bhavaviveka was a contemporary of Dharmapala, states Karl Potter, while Chinese texts and travel accounts place Dharmapala in the mid 6th century CE. Assuming the Buddhist and Chinese records are reliable, and for Bhavaviveka to have quoted \"Gauḍapada kārikās\", Gaudapada must have lived around 500 CE, or sometime in the first half of 6th century CE. But, it is certain that Gaudapada lived after the 4th century because he cites some Buddhist views of Nāgārjuna and Asanga, the latter of whom various accounts place in 4th century India.\n\nGaudapada wrote or compiled the ', also known as the ' and as the \"\". Some scholars, states Karl Potter, doubt that \"Gaudapada Karika\" was written by one author.\n\nThe \"\" is a concise explanation, in verse form, of the doctrines in \"Mandukya Upanishad\", one of the shortest but a profound Upanishad, consisting of just 12 sentences. Even before the time of Adi Shankara, Mandukya Upanishad was considered to be a Śruti, but not one particularly important during his era. In later periods it acquired a higher value, and expressing the Upanishadic essence. The Karika, notably, presents rational arguments from dream states, infinitude and finitude, space and time, causality, disintegration, and generation in support of the advaita doctrine.\n\nThe \"\" is the earliest extant systematic treatise on , though it is not the oldest work to present Advaita views, nor the only pre-Sankara work with the same type of teachings. According to Hajime Nakamura, not only was the \"Gaudapada Karika\" treasured in the Advaita tradition, the text was revered and highly respected in Vishistadvaita and Dvaita Vedanta schools of Hinduism as well. Gaudapada's text, adds Nakamura, was treasured but not considered a Sruti by Advaita scholars, while Ramanuja and Madhvacharya of non-Advaita schools considered its first chapter to be a Sruti.\n\nThe Gaudapadiya Karika has 215 metered verses which are divided into four chapters:\n\nChronologically, according to Hajime Nakamura, the Buddhist texts that quote from \"Gaudapada Karikas\" imply that the Vedantic ideas in the first three chapters are of greater antiquity. Most of Chapter Three of the compilation of \"Gaudapada Karika\" was complete by 400–500 CE, states Nakamura. He estimates that most of Chapter One was complete by 300–400 CE, while Chapter Two which presupposes Chapter One can be dated to have been mostly complete after Chapter One but before Chapter Three. Most of the Chapter Four was written sometime between 400 and 600 CE.\n\nThe Self resides in one's body in three forms: waking state, sleeping dreamy state and in deep sleep state, according to Potter's translation. When awake, the Self experiences the Vishva – the external objects and the visible; when dreaming, it experiences the Taijasa – the internal mind objects and what appears in the dreams; when in deep sleep, the Self experiences Prajna – the unpolarized, the fruits of the heart and bliss. The description of these states of self are similar, states Arvind Sharma, to those found in Brihadaranyaka Upanishad and other ancient Hindu texts.\n\nGaudapada presents the competing traditional theories about life in vogue, before and in his times, in Karika 6 through 9. Some claim creation is the result of the expansion of the Self, some claim it is a mere magic show, some claim the creation is from God's desire, some claim \"Kala\" (time) creates all beings. In Karika 10, the text states there is a fourth state of the Self, called Turiya, one of \"Advaita\" (nonduality), all pervading, unchanging and without \"Dukkha\" (sorrow). This fourth state of Self in \"Gaudapada Karika\" is found in chapters 8.7 through 8.12 of Chandogya Upanishad, which discusses the \"four states of consciousness\" as awake, dream-filled sleep, deep sleep, and beyond deep sleep.\n\nThe \"Vishva\" and \"Taijasa\" state of Self – states Gaudapada – can be a source of cause and effect, the \"Prajna\" is only cause, while \"Turiya\" state is neither. It is the waking state and dream state that lead to awareness, errors and unawareness. The perceived duality of the world is Maya, when in reality there is only nonduality. Chapter One ends with the discussion of the Om and its symbolism for Brahman, and the Atman within the heart of all living beings.\n\nUnreal are the dream objects during sleep, states Gaudapada, because the one who dreams never actually goes to place he dreams of, and because whatever situation he dreams about is something he leaves upon waking up. This is in the scripture Brihadaranyaka Upanishad.\n\nIn the same sense, the true reality is covered up for man even in his waking state, state Karikas 4-6 of Chapter Two, because, translates Potter, \"any object nonexistent in the beginning and in the end is also nonexistent in the middle\".\n\nWhen we sleep, we feel the external things we dream about are real and the internal states as unreal, but in the awakened state we realize both are unreal. In the same way, in our waking state whatever we apprehend to be real and unreal are both unreal, covering up the true reality, state Karikas 10-15. But this assertion leads to the obvious question, states Gaudapada, that if both internal and external are not true reality, who is it that imagines, who apprehends them and who cognizes? Gaudapada submits his answer as the Atman (Self, soul).\n\n\"Gaudapada Karika\" states that while we do grasp objects, we perceive, we think, but this does not connote the nature of reality and unreality, just like our fear of \"a rope for a serpent in darkness\". We construct realities, states Gaudapada, and imagine \"Jivatman\" to be various things such as \"prana\" (brreath), \"loka\" (world), \"deva\" (gods), \"bhoktr\" (enjoyer), \"bhojya\" (enjoyables), \"sukshma\" (subtle), \"sthula\" (gross), \"murta\" (material), \"amurta\" (nonmaterial) and so on.\n\nWe imagine things in our mind, we create things in our mind, we destroy things in our mind, says Gaudapada; yet all these things are not different from It, the Atman (gender neutral). All such constructions create dualities in our imagination, are Maya. The true reality, state Karikas 33-36, is nondual and it is Atman. Those who have mastered and grown past all attachments, past all fear and past all anger, they are past all dualities, know their Self, have secured the nonduality within. According to Karika 36-38, such wise individuals, do not care about praise from anyone, are beyond all rituals, are homeless wanderers, for they have realized the true inside them and outside; they, translates Potter, \"remain steadfastly true to nature\".\n\nGaudapada opens this chapter by criticizing devotional worship of any form, and states that this assumes that the Brahman-Atman is born. He states that the nondual Brahman-Atman (Self) can give rise to apparent duality (\"Jivas\", individual souls), while remaining unaffected in the process. To this end he gives the analogy of space and jars. Self is like space and the Jivas are like space in jars. Just as space is enclosed in a jar, so is the Self manifested as Jivas. When the jar is destroyed the space in the jar merges into space so likewise, are the Jivas one of the Self.\n\nGaudapada states that the Upanishads such as the \"Brihadaranyaka Upanishad\" teach this, that one's own Atman (self) is identical to the Atman in other beings, and all Atman are identical with the Brahman. While some Upanishads, acknowledges Gaudapada, imply a difference between individual soul and the Brahman, those texts are discussing the apparent distinction (duality) when one believes in apparent creation. In reality, states Gaudapada, there is no creation of souls from Brahman as they are identical. We must not confuse passages meant for spiritual instruction. According to Karikas 3.17-18, Gaudapada admits that dualists disagree with this view, but the ancient texts admit duality in the context of appearances, while \"nonduality is indeed the highest reality\", translates Karmarkar.\n\nAccording to Karl Potter's translation of Karikas 3.33-36, an awareness that is without conceptual construction is unborn, and this is identical to the object of that awareness called Brahman. This awareness is not a metaphor, nor born, it is real. Such awareness shines forth without fear, beyond words and thought, is calm and unwavering, equanimous, and full of light. This inner contactless concentration (Asparsha yoga) is difficult for most including the yogis, who see fear in what is fearlessly blissful. Such is the awareness that comes from self-reflection, understanding, giving up attachment to \"Dukkha\" (frustration) and \"Sukha\" (pleasure), where the mind rests in indescribable calmness within.\n\nThe last chapter of \"Gaudapada Karika\" has a different style than the first three, and it opens by expressing reverence for all \"the greatest of men\", who are like the cosmic space through their awareness of nonduality, free from self-contradictions and confusion, and who understand Dharma. Karikas 3–10 repeat some content from previous chapters, but with some word substitutions. Karikas 11–13 quote the key duality premise of Samkhya school of Hindu philosophy, cross examines it, then asks how and why is cause eternal? The text states that the Samkhya premise \"cause is born as its effect\" leads to infinite regress, which is not persuasive.\n\n\"Gaudapada Karika\" then acknowledges the theory of Ajativada or non-origination of the \"Buddhas\" (Buddhists). Like Samkhya premise, the text praises and cross examines it, in three ways: first, non-origination premises makes sense when neither the point of origin nor the end of something is known, but we know the point of origin of any example of something produced and there \"Ajativada\" premise does not follow; secondly, the \"Ajativada\" premise commits the \"Sadhyasama\" fallacy of reasoning by offering examples of what is yet to be proved. Thirdly, state Karikas 29–41, neither samsara nor mukti has a beginning or end, because if something is born it must have an end, and something that is unborn has no end.\n\nKarikas 45–52 state that only (\"Vijnana\") consciousness is real, explaining it with an example of fire stick before and during the time it burns, and adding we construct and deconstruct our state of awareness. Karikas 53–56 assert that there is no causation, no effects, and repeats that consciousness is the only one real thing. Everything is impermanent, nothing is eternal and everything is also without origination by nature, state Karikas 57–60.\n\nKarikas 61–81 repeat text on four states from earlier chapters to re-emphasize the premises about impermanence and non-origination. Attachment to unreality causes desire, sorrow (Dukkha) and fear, while detachment leads to freeing from such states and to \"samadhi\". There are three stages of understanding state Karikas 87–89: \"Laukika\" (ordinary. which cognizes object and subject as real), \"Shuddha laukika\" (purified ordinary, perceiving is considered real but not the objects) and \"Lokottara\" (supramundane, where neither objects nor perceiving are cognized as real).\n\nKarikas 90–100 presents \"Agrayana\" (vehicle) to knowing. The text states, \"all dharmas are without beginning, without variety, and are consciousness only\". Duality is for the unwise, nonduality and undifferentiated Reality is for the wise and difficult to grasp. The last \"Karikas\" of the Chapter Four add, translates Karl Potter, \"this the \"Buddhas\" understand, the Buddha instructs us that consciousness does not reach the dharmas, yet the Buddha said nothing about either consciousness or dharmas!\"\n\nThe influence of Buddhist doctrines on Gaudapada has been a vexed question.\n\nOne school of scholars, such as Bhattacharya and Raju, state that Gaudapada took over the Buddhist doctrines that ultimate reality is pure consciousness (\"vijñapti-mātra\") and \"that the nature of the world is the four-cornered negation, which is the structure of Māyā\". Gaudapada \"wove [both doctrines] into the philosophy of \"Mandukaya Upanisad\", which was further developed by Shankara\".\n\nOf particular interest is Chapter Four, in which according to Bhattacharya, two karikas refer to the Buddha and the term \"Asparsayoga\" is borrowed from Buddhism. According to Murti, \"the conclusion is irresistible that Gaudapada, a Vedanta philosopher, is attempting an advaitic interpretation of Vedanta in the light of the Madhyamika and Yogcara doctrines. He even freely quotes and appeals to them.\" However, adds Murti, the doctrines are unlike Buddhism. Chapter One, Two and Three are entirely Vedantin and founded on the Upanishads, with little Buddhist flavor. While the first three chapters discuss Brahman and Atman (soul, Self), Chapter Four doesn't. This, according to Murti, may be because this was authored by someone else and not Gaudapada, a position shared by Richard King. Further, state both Murti and King, no Vedanta scholars who followed Gaudapada ever quoted from Chapter Four, they only quote from the first three. According to Sarma, Chapter Four may well have been written by Gaudapada assuming he was fully conversant with Mahayana school's teachings, yet \"to mistake him to be a hidden or open Buddhist is absurd\". The doctrines of Gaudapada and Buddhism are totally opposed, states Murti:\n\nAdvaitins particularly have traditionally challenged the Buddhist influence thesis. Modern scholarship generally accepts that Gaudapada was influenced by Buddhism, at least in terms of using Buddhist terminology to explain his ideas, but adds that Gaudapada was a Vedantin and not a Buddhist.\n\nA number of additional works are attributed to Gaudapada, but their authenticity is uncertain. The attributed works are:\n\nGaudapada is also credited with a commentary on \"Samkhyakarikas\". According to Potter, the naive nature of this commentary is in sharp contrast to the depth of reflection in \"Gaudapada Karikas\", and the commentary on \"Samkhyakarikas\" is unlikely to be one by Gaudapada.\n\nGaudapada is one of the key persons in the Advaita Vedanta. He is traditionally said to have been highly influential on Adi Shankara, one of the most important figures in Vedic philosophy.\n\nShri Gaudapadacharya Math, also known as , is the oldest matha of the South Indian Saraswat Brahmins.\n\nThe Peetadhipathi \"head monk\" is Śrī Gauḍapadācārya. Rajapur Saraswat Brahmins and Smartist Goud Saraswat Brahmins are its main disciples.\n\nList of Math\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "43500060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43500060", "title": "Great Dictionary of Modern Chinese Dialects", "text": "Great Dictionary of Modern Chinese Dialects\n\nThe Great Dictionary of Modern Chinese Dialects () is a compendium of dictionaries for 42 local varieties of Chinese following a common format.\nThe individual dictionaries cover dialects spread across the dialect groups identified in the \"Language Atlas of China\":\n\nEach dictionary was prepared by specialists in the dialect, and opens with an introduction to the characteristics of the dialect. The main body of each dictionary has between 7,000 and 10,000 entries.\n"}
{"id": "20779432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20779432", "title": "Grower Champagne", "text": "Grower Champagne\n\nGrower Champagnes are those Champagnes that are produced by the same estate that owns the vineyards where the grapes are grown. \"Récoltant-Manipulant\" is the term in French, and Grower Champagnes can be identified by \"RM\" on the wine label. While large Champagne houses, such as Mumm, Moët et Chandon, Veuve Clicquot and others may use grapes sourced from as many as 80 different vineyards in the Champagne region to create a consistent house style, Grower Champagnes tend to be more \"terroir\"-focused, being sourced from a single vineyard or closely located vineyards around a village, and made with grapes which vary with each vintage. Today there are over 19,000 independent growers in the Champagne region, accounting for nearly 88% of all vineyard land in the region; around 5,000 of these growers produce wine from their own grapes. Of the Champagne imported into the US in 2014, only 5% was grower Champagne.\n\nGrower Champagnes have been described as \"artisanal winemaking\" with \"terroir\" being at the forefront for each wine, rather than an emphasis on a consistent \"house style\" that can be made year after year. While large Champagne houses, such as Moët et Chandon may source grapes from the entire Champagne region, the vineyards owned by a Grower Champagne maker are generally clustered around a single village. Some growers will craft their wine to reflect the \"terroir\" of that village, especially if they own vineyards in one of Champagne's Grand crus. Grower Champagnes are often released younger than their large house counterparts due, in part, to the greater financial resources that would be needed for long term aging and storage. Many also show a lower dosage, and occasionally no dosage at all, than most negociant manipulant bottlings.\n\nProducers of RM Champagne include Tarlant, Chartogne-Taillet, David Léclapart, Benoît Lahaye, Roses de Jeanne, Marie-Courtin, Vilmart & Cie, Pierre Péters, Agrapart & Fils, and \nMarc Hébrart.\n\nThe 2011 vintage saw difficult conditions which created uneven wines. The 2009 vintage was warm enough to ripen the fruit, resulting full, fruity Champagnes. 2008 was an outstanding vintage, showing both high ripeness and high acidity.\n\nThe popularity of Grower Champagne is a relatively recent phenomenon. Since the 18th century, Champagne houses have dominated the business dynamic in the region. These private houses or \"negociants\" would buy grapes from the owners of several vineyards to blend and make Champagne. As of 2003, there were over 3,700 brands of Grower Champagnes available for purchase within France but only around 130 brands in the United States. As of 2008, these wines accounted for less than 3% of Champagne market, with that market growing as the wines continue to increase in popularity. Distributors and wine retailers tend to tout the comparative value and lower cost of Grower Champagnes versus the wines of larger Champagne houses, due to the larger Champagne houses' costs of mass market advertising. The smaller Growers leave it up to the importer and wine retailer to market their wines.\n\nA common criticism of Grower Champagnes is the potential for variable quality, especially from vintage to vintage. While the larger Champagne houses and \"negociants\" have the flexibility to buy grapes from all over the Champagne region, Grower Champagne makers are limited to only their vineyard holdings. Conversely, advocates of Grower Champagnes say that the blending of many \"terroirs\" by the larger houses makes those wines \"underflavored\" and non-distinctive.\n\nThere are over 19,000 independent growers in the Champagne region, accounting for nearly 88% of all vineyard land in the region. Around 5000 of these growers produce wine from their own grapes. The larger Champagne houses have holdings in only 12% of the region's vineyards, making it a necessity for them to buy grapes from independent growers. Under current \"Appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC) regulations, there are strict limitations on planting. Some growers are seeing an economic advantage in making wine from their own grapes, especially if they have land in one of Champagne's Grand cru villages, rather than selling them to the larger houses where they become part of a generic blend.\n\nChampagnes can be identified by the initials that appear before a number on the wine label. The initials most commonly associated with Grower Champagnes is RM (meaning \"Récoltant-Manipulant\") but there are other initials that may appear on the label. \n\nOther initials:\n"}
{"id": "9108856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9108856", "title": "Interpreting notes", "text": "Interpreting notes\n\nInterpreting notes are used by some interpreters, who re-express oral communications (such as speeches) in whole or in part. Such notes may be used when the interpreter is working in \"consecutive mode.\"\n\nInterpreting notes are not part of any conventional graphic system, and practitioners are free to develop their own techniques. However, some basic rules facilitate the recording of details in order to aid the interpreter in coping with large amounts of information.\n\nThe purpose of interpreting notes is not to transcribe the speech verbatim. Interpreting notes are not a form of shorthand. Their purpose is to write minimal notes which will, at a quick glance, elicit in the interpreter's mind the intent of an oral communication so that it can be re-expressed in a different language.\n\nIt is not appropriate to document a speech in shorthand, as this would result in task duplication.\n\nThe interpreter should listen with utmost concentration to the speaker and write only the information which he judges sufficient to render the meaning. Numbers, names, and the titles of persons must be retained in the interpretation.\n\nInterpreting notes are typically written in a notebook with each note being separated from the others by a horizontal line. After interpreting a sentence with the aid of a note, some interpreters might make a slash over it, if they have the time. This has an important psychological effect — it is similar to erasing data on a computer. Others might consider it too time-consuming to do so when a fast pace of interpretation is required or they might think that it detracts from the pace of their delivery. \n\nThe interpreter is required to decipher his notes and to re-express their content in the target language. Following analysis of the speech, the interpreter may write the information in abstract form.\n\nIdeograms are an important tool used by interpreters. For example, the letter “E” laid on its side (like the Cyrillic letter \"sha\", Ш) may represent Europe. Then one can specify whether eastern, western, or central Europe is meant by slashing the relevant upward leg. A horizontal bar with two vertical bars beneath it might represent a table, which would indicate a meeting or a conference. A bracket before an action indicates that the action will take place in the future, and vice versa.\n\nThese ideograms are linked by a system of arrows and brackets that show the structure of a sentence that is to be interpreted. Using this system, one can note, for instance, that a sum has increased or decreased by a certain percentage (according to the arrow’s direction).\n\nFor example, the notes in the illustration might be interpreted to mean : \n\nWe are particularly glad to inform you about an important increase in our company’s revenues, which rose by 10 percent from 3.5 to 3.85 billion dollars.(*) This derives from huge sales of helicopters. The United States of America bought 50 and South Africa 20 of them. On the other hand, we must relocate parts of our production in these countries.   (A billion (bn) is called a milliard (mrd or Md) in most languages.)* \n\nSome interpreters have devised complete systems of abbreviations, which include all academic titles, administrative titles, military ranks, etc. Such a system has the drawback that, like shorthand, it may be useful only for a particular language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11362640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11362640", "title": "Ives Roqueta", "text": "Ives Roqueta\n\nIves Roqueta (; born 29 February 1936 in Sète, Hérault, died January 4, 2015) was an Occitan author. He played a major role in the country's political and cultural movement. He was the president of the IEO for a number of years and his brother Joan, better known as Joan Larzac, is a writer and an Occitan activist as well. He founded the Ventadorn record company, which can be credited for providing Nòva cançon singers with a proficient media outlet.\n\nHis cultural and political action is highly controversial.\n\nSome think that he's one of the pioneers of his generation and stands among the nation's most talented poets and novelists.\n\nOther Occitan analysts say that he had a very negative impact over the occitanist movement during the end of the 1970s and the 1980s. Particularly, his anti-scholar positions led to the split of the IEO in 1981.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18160390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18160390", "title": "Jaesusaeng", "text": "Jaesusaeng\n\nJaesusaeng () is a Korean term for high school students who decide to spend a year studying to re-take the College Scholastic Ability Test, hoping to get a higher score and enter the university of their choice. Attending university has a major impact on their future careers. The equivalent term in Japan is \"rōnin\".\n\nGaining entrance to the extremely competitive and prestigious SKY universities in Seoul requires that some students become \"jaesusaeng\" after an initial less-than-stellar performance on the national exam. Korea is \"prepossessed by social status and reputation,\" and a SKY education is the main way to gain social status. \n\nGenerally, the public education system is not enough to prepare students for the exam, so most students attend after school lessons at various \"hagwon\" (cram schools). The fierce competition for enrollment at prestigious universities is called \"entrance exam war\" (). \n\nThe stress from constant study and limited social life as a student have contributed to an increase in suicide in South Korea; for children aged 10 to 19 years old, suicide is the second most common cause of death in the country.\n\nWhen a student fails to earn an adequate score over 3 or more years, he may be derisively referred to as a \"jangsusaeng\" () a play on words from the expression \"Please live a long life\" said to elders (장수 하세요). However, since 2010, the word \"N susaeng\" () is in common use. Although the definition of the word and the use of it is identical to the formerly used vocabulary, the Chinese character \"jang\" (長, meaning \"long\") is replaced with the Latin letter 'N', which stands for the undefined number of time the student is taking the test.\n\n"}
{"id": "58113239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58113239", "title": "Jay-driver", "text": "Jay-driver\n\nThe term jay driver originated to refer to carriage drivers who drove on the incorrect side of the road. While the term may generally refer to an individual operating a vehicle in a manner not consistent with traffic laws, it was used more specifically to individuals who drive a vehicle on the incorrect side of the road. Merriam-Webster indicates that the first known use of the term is by \"The Junction City Union\" newspaper on June 28, 1905.\n\nMost sources indicate that the term \"jay driver\" came before \"jaywalker\" there being numerous article headlines from 1905 through the next decade that include the term \"Jay Driver.\" Peter Norton's book \"Fighting Traffic\" on 78 indicates that in 1922 use of the term \"jay driver\" was an attempt by George A. Davies to use the known meaning of \"jay walker\" and apply it to drivers of vehicles. However, an opinion piece attributed to \"A MAN BOOSTER\" from the January 17, 1907 \"Salt Lake Telegram\" titled \"Oh yes, there's the 'Jay Driver'\" describes in it both jay walkers and jay drivers. However, another article from November 11, 1919 in \"The Pittsburgh Gazette Times\" cites from the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" the text: \"There are so many jay walkers and so many jay drivers that it hardly behooves any driver to talk about jay walkers, or any walkjer to mention jay drivers,\" clearly demonstrating that the term existed prior to that time.\n\nA 1939 instructional video overdubbed by the voice of an official from a British agency indicates that the term was not isolated to the United States. Titled School For Jay-Drivers! the video provides an example of a motorcycle rider in Vienna failing to give the proper signal who is then required to attend a Sunday morning class in which an instructor explains what he did incorrectly and what the rules indicate he should have done.\n"}
{"id": "238245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238245", "title": "Jorge Camacho (writer)", "text": "Jorge Camacho (writer)\n\nJorge Camacho Cordón (born 18 November 1966, Zafra) is a writer in Esperanto and Spanish.\n\nCamacho was born in Zafra, Spain and learned Esperanto in 1980. He was a member of the Academy of Esperanto from 1992 until 2001. Since 1995 he has worked in Brussels as an interpreter for the European Union from English and Finnish into Spanish.\n\nCamacho was elected to the Academy of Esperanto in 1992, but on 15 August 2001 he announced his resignation due to disappointment with the Esperanto movement. However, he remains active in Esperanto and continues to review literary works.\n\nCamacho became famous for his poems and short stories in the late 1980s, for which he received several prizes in the \"Belartaj Konkursoj de UEA\". In 1992 he won the Grabowski Prize, a prize for young authors writing in Esperanto. The prize is named after Antoni Grabowski.\n\nCamacho was in the early 1990s considered a member of the so-called \"Ibera Skolo\" (\"Iberian School\") of Esperanto writers along with three other inhabitants of the Iberian peninsula.\n\nIn the 1990s, Camacho began to publicly oppose Giorgio Silfer for his interpretation of the political view \"Raumism\". He wrote \"La Majstro kaj Martinelli\" (\"The Master and Martinelli\"), a biting satire of Silfer (inspired by the similarly titled novel of Mikhail Bulgakov), and criticised his ideology in \"La liturgio de la foiro\" (\"The Liturgy of the Fair\").\n\n\nUntil December 2014 Jorge Camacho was editor-in-chief of the literary almanac \"Beletra Almanako\", which was first issued in the autumn of 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "19805567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19805567", "title": "K. T. Muhammed", "text": "K. T. Muhammed\n\nK. T. Muhammed (29 September 1927 – 25 March 2008), popularly known as KT, was a Malayalam playwright and screenwriter. He had scripted about 40 stage plays, including \"Idhu Bhumiyanu\" (This is the Earth), considered to be his masterpiece. He had also written screenplay for about 20 films, including \"Kandam Becha Kottu\", \"Thurakkatha Vathil\", \"Moodupadam\", and \"Kadalpalam\". KT was a recipient of Sangeet Natak Akademi Award.\n\nK.T. was born in Manjeri in Malappuram district as the eldest son of a policeman and had very little formal education. After schooling he worked as a clerk in the postal department. In 1952 he got the first prize in an all India short story contest for his story \"Kannukal\" (Eyes) which was later translated into many foreign languages. He was an active member of Brothers Music Club of Kozhikode which was the training ground of many famous artists. He worked as the editor of Chithrakarthika weekly for a brief period of time. He started \"Sangamam Theatre\" a professional drama troup which staged many of his famous plays both inside and outside the state. In 1971, he was nominated as the Chairman of Kerala Sangeetha Nadaka Academy and in 1974 as Chairman of Kerala State Film Development Corporation. He married to actress Zeenath and that relation ended in divorce. They couple has a son Jithin.\n\nHe died on 25 March 2008 at Pavangad, Kozhikode.\n\nHis plays celebrate the values of basic human dignity which transcend the barriers of religion or community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34597203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34597203", "title": "Kingi Ihaka", "text": "Kingi Ihaka\n\nSir Kingi Matutaera Ihaka (18 October 1921 – 1 January 1993) was a New Zealand clerk, interpreter, Anglican priest, broadcaster and Māori Language Commissioner. Of Māori descent, he identified with the Te Aupōuri iwi. He was born in Te Kao, Northland, New Zealand, on 18 October 1921.\n\nIhaka was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire in the 1970 Queen's Birthday Honours, for services to the Anglican Māori Church. In the 1989 New Year Honours, he was made a Knight Bachelor, for services to the Māori people.\n"}
{"id": "24908485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24908485", "title": "L share", "text": "L share\n\nL-Shares () refers to Chinese companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. The listed companies are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands and Jersey, but they have their main business operations in mainland China. \n\n"}
{"id": "22507720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22507720", "title": "List of Marathi-language newspapers", "text": "List of Marathi-language newspapers\n\nThe Marathi language has a long history of literature and culture. The first Marathi newspaper, \"Darpan\", was started on 6 January 1832 by Balshastri Jambhekar. The paper was bilingual fortnightly also published in English as \"The Bombay Darpan\" and stopped publishing in 1840. Founded in 1881 by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, the daily \"Kesari\" was a prominent newspaper of the pre-Independence era with a large readership. It claimed to have circulation of 3500 within two years of establishment and reached up to 22,000 during 1908. Narayan Meghaji Lokhande's Marathi daily \"Din Bandhu\", which focused on social causes of labour class, was the second largest circulation in Bombay Presidency with 1650 copies a week in 1884.\n\n"}
{"id": "4115910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4115910", "title": "List of extinct languages of North America", "text": "List of extinct languages of North America\n\nThis is a list of extinct languages of North America, languages which have undergone language death, have no native speakers and no spoken descendant, most of them being languages of former Native American tribes. There are 109 languages listed\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "525260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525260", "title": "List of political metaphors", "text": "List of political metaphors\n\nThis is a list of common political metaphors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52386027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52386027", "title": "Lotus Multi-Byte Character Set", "text": "Lotus Multi-Byte Character Set\n\nThe Lotus Multi-Byte Character Set (LMBCS) is a proprietary multi-byte character encoding originally conceived in 1988 at Lotus Development Corporation with input from Bob Balaban and others. Created around the same time and addressing some of the same problems, LMBCS could be viewed as parallel development and possible alternative to Unicode. For maximum compatibility, later issues of LMBCS incorporate UTF-16 as a subset.\n\nCommercially, LMBCS was first introduced as the default character set of Lotus 1-2-3 Release 3 for DOS in March 1989 and Lotus 1-2-3/G Release 1 for OS/2 in 1990 replacing the 8-bit Lotus International Character Set (LICS) and ASCII used in earlier DOS-only versions of Lotus 1-2-3 and Symphony. LMBCS is also used in IBM/Lotus SmartSuite, Notes and Domino, as well as in a number of third-party products.\n\nLMBCS encodes the characters required for languages using the Latin, Arabic, Hebrew, Greek and Cyrillic scripts, the Thai, Chinese, Japanese and Korean writing systems, and technical symbols.\n\nTechnically, LMBCS is a lead-byte encoding where code point 00 as well as code points 20 (32) to 7F (127) are identical to ASCII (as well as to LICS).\n\nCode point 00 is always treated as NUL character to ensure maximum code compatibility with existing software libraries dealing with null-terminated strings in many programming languages such as C.\n\nCode points 01 to 1F, which serve as control codes in ASCII, are used as lead bytes to switch the definition of code points above 7F between several \"code groups\" (similar to code pages) and at the same time determine either a single- or multi-byte nature for the corresponding code group.\n\nFor example, code group 1 (with group byte 01) is almost identical to the SBCS code page 850, whereas code group 16 (with group byte 10) is similar to the Japanese MBCS code page 932. Multi-byte characters can thus occupy two or three bytes.\n\nIn canonical LMBCS, each character starts with its group byte.\nTo reduce the length, in optimized or compressed LMBCS a \"default code group\" or \"optimization group code\" can be defined on a per application or process basis (ideally chosen according to the highest likelihood of occurrence) and must be communicated to the interpreting code in some way (f.e. by specifying the corresponding \"LMBCS-\"n\"\" name). Thereby, the group byte can be omitted for these characters. Lotus 1-2-3 retrieves the optimization group code from the file header of the corresponding source file, whereas for Lotus Notes the optimization group code is fixed to be always 01.\n\nWithout prefix byte the code points 32 (20) to 127 (7F) are interpreted as follows (corresponding to LMBCS codes 32 to 127):\n\nLMBCS group 1 code points 128 (80) to 255 (FF) are identical to the corresponding code points in code page 850 (DOS Latin-1), whereas code points 1 (01) to 127 (7F) are defined according to the following exception list (corresponding to LMBCS codes 256 to 383):\n\nLMBCS group 2 code points 128 (80) to 255 (FF) are identical to the corresponding code points in code page 851 (DOS Greek), whereas code points 1 (01) to 127 (7F) are defined according to the following exception list:\n\nLMBCS group 6 code points 128 (80) to 255 (FF) are identical to the corresponding code points in code page 852 (DOS Latin-2), whereas code points 1 (01) to 127 (7F) are defined according to the following exception list:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7809879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7809879", "title": "Manoj Das", "text": "Manoj Das\n\nManoj Das (born 1934) is an award-winning Indian author who writes in Odia and English. In 2000, Manoj Das was awarded with Saraswati Samman. He was awarded Padma Shri in 2001, the fourth highest Civilian Award in India for his contribution in the field of Literature & Education. \nKendra Sahitya Akademi has bestowed its highest award (also India's highest literary award) i.e Sahitya Akademi Award Fellowship.\n\nIn 1971, his research in the archives of London and Edinburgh brought to light some of the little-known facts of India's freedom struggle in the first decade of the twentieth century led by Sri Aurobindo for which he received the first Sri Aurobindo Puraskar (Kolkata).\n\nHis deeper quest led him to mysticism and he has been an inmate of Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Puducherry since 1973 where he currently teaches English Literature and the Philosophy of Sri Aurobindo at the Sri Aurobindo International University.\n\nManoj Das was born in the small coastal village of Shankari in the Balasore district of Orissa. His father was a landocracy under British Govt., So he got the opportunity for brought up himself among influential peoples & got inspired. Since 1963, he has been an ashramite at Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Puducherry.\nHe cites Fakir Mohan Senapati, Vyasa, and Valmiki as early influences.\n\nHe was a youth leader with radical views in his college days, playing an active role in Afro-Asian students' conference at Bandung, Indonesia, in 1959.\n\nHe edited a cultural magazine, \"The Heritage\", published from Chennai in the 1980s. The magazine is no more in circulation.\n\nHe wrote columns on quest for finding eternal truth in common lives in India’s national dailies like \"The Times of India, The Hindustan Times, The Hindu\" and \"The Statesman\".\nManoj Das is perhaps the foremost bilingual Odia writer and a master of dramatic expression both in his English and Odia short stories and novels. Das has been compared to Vishnu Sharma, in modern Odia literature for his magnificent style and efficient use of words and for the fact that, he is one of the best story-tellers in India at present times. Over the years many research scholars have done their doctoral thesis on the works of Manoj Das, P. Raja being the first scholar to do so.\n\nAmong the other important positions that Das has held are, Member, General Council, Sahitya Akademi, New Delhi 1998–2002, and Author-consultant, Ministry of Education, Government of Singapore, 1983–85. He was the leader of the Indian delegation of writers to China (1999).\n\n\nNovels\nShort Story\n\nTravelogue\n\nPoetry\n\nHistory & Culture\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54045198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54045198", "title": "McConnell–Laubach orthography", "text": "McConnell–Laubach orthography\n\nThe McConnell–Laubach orthography is the revised form of a previously proposed orthographic system for Haitian Creole. It was first developed by Ormonde McConnell in 1940, and then later revised by him and Frank Laubach in 1943.\n\nIn 1940, a Protestant missionary by the name of Ormonde McConnell developed and proposed the first widely recognized phonemic system of writing for the Haitian Creole language. Prior to McConnell's attempt at creating a system of orthography, however, the Haitian diplomat Georges Sylvain had developed a small number of materials for the French-Haitian Creole bilingual elites, from his own French-based system of writing. Because it was largely unavailable to the masses, McConnell determined to create a system everyone could use.\nThis original writing system contained 33 symbols:\n\nOral Vowels: a, è, é, i, o, ò, u\n\nNasal Vowels: â, ê, ô\n\nSemi-Vowels: i/y, w, u\n\nConsonants: b, d, f, g, h, j, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, z\n\nDigraphs: sh, gn \n\nFrank Laubach was not a speaker of Creole, though he was an expert in American literacy. In 1943, he helped McConnell to revise his orthographic system, which resulted in what's known as the McConnell–Laubach Orthography. This contained two major changes: /ou/ instead of /u/, as in \"dou\" (\"Eng.\" 'gentle'), and /ch/ instead of /sh/, as in \"chante\" (\"Eng.\" 'to sing').\n\nThe greatest opponent to this new orthography was a Haitian scholar named Charles Pressoir. He, along with a number of Haitian intellectuals, claimed that the use of \"Anglo-Saxon\" letters in Haitian orthography looked \"too American\" and reminded the people of Haiti of the recent American occupation. More linguistically, he also heavily criticized the lack of front-rounded vowels, and was concerned that the method of transcribing nasal vowels could make it difficult for Haitians to learn French; something that he attributed to McConnell and Laubach's unfamiliarity with the French language and orthography.\n\nIn 1946, Pressoir and L. Faublas, the Haitian minister of education, responded with their own revised version of the McConnell–Laubach orthography, making several substantial changes in favor of \"Frenchifying\" the writing system. This was the Faublas-Pressoir system, and later called 'alphabet ONAAC' when it was adopted by the Haitian government.\n\nThe backlash against the proposed McConnell-Laubach system was, at its heart, a fight for the cultural identity of Haiti. While the McConnell–Laubach orthography was an uncomfortable reminder of the American/Protestant occupation, Pressoir's alternative was a return to French control. \nSome years after the Faublas-Pressoir system was developed, however, a group of French Linguists from the University of Paris developed yet another orthography, adopted by the Institut Pédagogique National (IPN), that was more consistent than its predecessors and seen as a better representation of the language. In 1979, the IPN orthography was declared the official orthography of Haitian Creole.\n"}
{"id": "1200878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200878", "title": "Mi'kmaq hieroglyphic writing", "text": "Mi'kmaq hieroglyphic writing\n\nMi'kmaq hieroglyphic writing was a writing system and memory aid used by the Mi'kmaq, a First Nations people of the east coast of Canada.\n\nThe missionary-era glyphs were logograms, with phonetic elements used alongside (Schmidt & Marshall 1995), which included logographic, alphabetic, and ideographic information. They were derived from a pictograph and petroglyph tradition. In Mi'kmaq the glyphs are called \"komqwejwi'kasikl,\" or \"sucker-fish writings\", which refers to the tracks the sucker fish leaves on the muddy river bottom.\n\nScholars have debated whether the earliest known Mi'kmaq \"hieroglyphs\" from the 17th century qualified fully as a writing system, rather than as a pictographic mnemonic device. In the 17th century, French missionary Chrétien Le Clercq adapted the Míkmaq characters as a logographic system for pedagogical purposes.\n\nIn 1978, Ives Goddard and William Fitzhugh of the Department of Anthropology at the Smithsonian Institution, contended that the pre-missionary system was purely mnemonic, as it could not be used to write new compositions. Schmidt and Marshall argued in 1995 that the missionary system of the 17th century was able to serve as a fully functional writing system. This would mean that Mi'kmaq is the oldest writing system for a native language north of Mexico.\n\nFather Le Clercq, a Roman Catholic missionary on the Gaspé Peninsula in New France from 1675, claimed that he had seen some Míkmaq children 'writing' symbols on birchbark as a memory aid. This was sometimes done by pressing porcupine quills directly into the bark in the shape of symbols. Le Clercq adapted those symbols to writing prayers, developing new symbols as necessary.\n\nThis adapted writing system proved popular among Mi'kmaq, and was still in use in the 19th century. Since there is no historical or archaeological evidence of these symbols from before the arrival of this missionary, it is unclear how ancient the use of the mnemonic glyphs was. The relationship of these symbols with Mi'kmaq petroglyphs is also unclear.\n\nPierre Maillard, Roman Catholic priest, during the winter of 1737–38 perfected a system of hieroglyphics to transcribe Mi'kmaq words. He used these symbols to write formulas for the principal prayers and the responses of the faithful, in the catechism, so his followers might learn them more readily. There is no direct evidence that Maillard was aware of Le Clercq's work; in any event Maillard's work is outstanding in that he left numerous works in the language, which continued in use among the Mi'kmaq into the 20th century.\n\nAn unknown number of birch scrolls containing mi'kmaq writings were destroyed by missionaries in New England, before the writing system was adapted to aid conversion of community members to Christianity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "729764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729764", "title": "Montenegrin language", "text": "Montenegrin language\n\nMontenegrin (; / ) is the normative variety of the Serbo-Croatian language mainly used by Montenegrins and the official language of Montenegro. Montenegrin is based on the most widespread dialect of Serbo-Croatian, Shtokavian, more specifically on Eastern Herzegovinian, which is also the basis of Standard Croatian, Serbian, and Bosnian.\n\nMontenegro's language has historically and traditionally been called Serbian. The idea of a Montenegrin standard language separate from Serbian appeared in the 1990s during the breakup of Yugoslavia, through proponents of Montenegrin independence from Serbia. Montenegrin became the official language of Montenegro with the ratification of a new constitution on 22 October 2007.\n\nThe Montenegrin standard is still emerging. Its orthography was established on 10 July 2009 with the addition of two letters to the alphabet. Their usage remained controversial and they achieved only limited public acceptance, along with some proposed alternative spellings. They had been used for official documents since 2009, but in February 2017, the Assembly of Montenegro removed them from any type of governmental documentation.\n\nIn January 2008, the government of Montenegro formed the Council for the Codification of the Montenegrin Language, which aims to standardize the Montenegrin language according to international norms. Proceeding documents will, after verification, become a part of the educational programme in Montenegrin schools.\n\nThe first Montenegrin standard was officially proposed in July 2009. In addition to the letters prescribed by the Serbo-Croatian standard, the proposal introduced two additional letters, and , to replace the digraphs and . The Ministry of Education has accepted neither of the two drafts by the Council for the Standardization of the Montenegrin language, but instead adopted an alternate third one which was not a part of their work. The Council has criticized this act, saying it comes from \"a small group\" and that it contains an abundance of \"methodological, conceptual and linguistic errors\".\n\nOn 21 June 2010, the Council for General Education adopted the first \"Montenegrin Grammar\".\n\nFirst written request for the assignment of international code was submitted to the technical committee ISO 639 in July 2008. Complete paperwork was forwarded to Washington in September 2015. After the long procedure, the request was finally approved on Friday, December 8, 2017 and ISO 639-2 and -3 code [cnr] was assigned to the Montenegrin language, effective December 21, 2017.\n\nThe language remains an ongoing issue in Montenegro.\n\nIn the previous census of 1991, the vast majority of Montenegrin citizens, 510,320 or 82.97%, declared themselves speakers of the then official language: Serbo-Croatian. The 1981 population census also recorded a Serbo-Croatian-speaking majority. However, in the first Communist censuses, the vast majority of the population declared Serbian their native language. Such is also the case with the first recorded population census in Montenegro in 1909, when approximately 95% of the population of the Principality of Montenegro declared Serbian their native language. According to the Constitution of Montenegro, the official language of the republic since 1992 is Serbian of the Ijekavian standard.\n\nAfter World War II and until 1992, the official language of Montenegro was Serbo-Croatian. Before that, in the previous Montenegrin realm, the language in use was called Serbian. The Serbian language was the officially used language in Communist Montenegro until after the 1950 Novi Sad Agreement, and Serbo-Croatian was introduced into the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro in 1974. In the late 1990s and early 21st century, organizations promoting Montenegrin as a distinct language appeared only since 2004 when the Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro regime introduced the term to usage. The new constitution, adopted on 19 October 2007, deemed Montenegrin to be the official language of Montenegro.\n\nThe most recent population census conducted in Montenegro was in 2011. According to it, 36.97% of the population (229,251) declared Montenegrin their native language, and 42.88% (265,895) declared Serbian their native language.\n\nMijat Šuković, a prominent Montenegrin lawyer, wrote a draft version of the constitution which passed the parliament's constitutional committee. Šuković suggested Montenegrin as the official language of Montenegro. The Venice Commission, an advisory body of the Council of Europe, had a generally positive attitude towards the draft of the constitution but did not address the language and church issues, calling them symbolic. The new constitution was ratified on 19 October 2007, declaring Montenegrin as the official language of Montenegro, as well as recognising Albanian, Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian.\n\nThe ruling Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro and Social Democratic Party of Montenegro stand for nothing but plainly renaming the country's official language into Montenegrin, meeting opposition from the Socialist People's Party of Montenegro, the People's Party, the Democratic Serb Party, the Bosniak Party, the Movement for Changes as well as the Serb List coalition led by the Serb People's Party. However, a referendum was not needed, as a two-thirds majority of the parliament voted for the Constitution, including the ruling coalition, Movement for Changes, the Bosniaks and the Liberals, while the pro-Serbian parties voted against it and the Albanian minority parties abstained from voting. The Constitution was ratified and adopted on 19 October 2007, recognizing Montenegrin as the official language of Montenegro.\n\nAccording to a poll of 1,001 Montenegrin citizens conducted by Matica crnogorska in 2014, linguistic demographics were:\nAccording to an early 2017 poll, 42.6% of Montenegro's citizens have opted for Serbian as the name of their native language, while 37.9% for Montenegrin. \n\nNote that not only Montenegrins by ethnicity declare Montenegrin as their native language. According to the 2011 census, other ethnic groups in Montenegro have also declared their language Montenegrin by a certain percentage. Most openly, Matica Muslimanska called on Muslims living in Montenegro to name their native language as Montenegrin.\n\nMontenegrins speak Shtokavian subdialects of Serbo-Croatian, some which are shared with the neighbouring Slavic nations:\n\nThe proponents of the separate Montenegrin language prefer using the Latin alphabet over the Cyrillic alphabet. In both alphabets there are two additional letters (bold), which are easier to render in digital typography in the Latin alphabet due to their existence in Polish, but which must be created \"ad hoc\" using combining characters when using Cyrillic.\n\nMany literary works of authors from Montenegro provide examples of the local Montenegrin vernacular. The medieval literature was mostly written in Old Church Slavonic and its recensions, but most of the 19th century works were written in some of the dialects of Montenegro. They include the folk literature collected by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić and other authors, as well as the books of writers from Montenegro such as Petar Petrović Njegoš's \"The Mountain Wreath\" (\"Gorski vijenac\"), Marko Miljanov's \"The Examples of Humanity and Bravery\" (\"Primjeri čojstva i junaštva\"), etc. In the second half of the 19th century and later, the Eastern Herzegovinian dialect, which served as a basis for the standard Serbo-Croatian language, was often used instead of the Zeta–South Raška dialect characteristic of most dialects of Montenegro. Petar Petrović Njegoš, one of the most respectable Montenegrin authors, changed many characteristics of the Zeta–South Raška dialect from the manuscript of his \"Gorski vijenac\" to those proposed by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić as a standard for the Serbian language.\n\nFor example, most of the accusatives of place used in the Zeta–South Raška dialect were changed by Njegoš to the locatives used in the Serbian standard. Thus the stanzas \"U dobro je lako dobar biti, / na muku se poznaju junaci\" from the manuscript were changed to \"U dobru je lako dobar biti, / na muci se poznaju junaci\" in the printed version. Other works of later Montenegrin authors were also often modified to the East Herzegovinian forms in order to follow the Serbian language literary norm. However, some characteristics of the traditional Montenegrin Zeta–South Raška dialect sometimes appeared. For example, the poem \"Onamo namo\" by Nikola I Petrović Njegoš, although it was written in the East Herzegovinian Serbian standard, contains several Zeta–South Raška forms: \"Onamo namo, za brda ona\" (accusative, instead of instrumental case \"za brdima onim\"), and \"Onamo namo, da viđu\" (instead of \"vidim\") \"Prizren\", and so on.\n\nMost mainstream politicians and other proponents of the Montenegrin language state that the issue is chiefly one of self-determination and the people's right to call the language what they want, rather than an attempt to artificially create a new language when there is none. The Declaration of the Montenegrin PEN Center states that the \"Montenegrin language does not mean a systemically separate language, but just one of four names (Montenegrin, Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian) by which Montenegrins name their part of [the] Shtokavian system, commonly inherited with Muslims, Serbs and Croats\". The introduction of the Montenegrin language has been supported by other important academic institutions such as the Matica crnogorska, although meeting opposition from the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nSome proponents go further. The chief proponent of Montenegrin is Zagreb-educated Dr. Vojislav Nikčević, professor at the Department of Language and Literature at the University of Montenegro and the head of the Institute for Montenegrin Language in the capital Podgorica. His dictionaries and grammars were printed by Croatian publishers since the major Montenegrin publishing houses such as Obod in Cetinje opted for the official nomenclature specified in the Constitution (Serbian until 1974, Serbo-Croatian to 1992, Serbian until 2007). Nikčević advocates amending the Latin alphabet with three letters Ś, Ź, and З and corresponding Cyrillic letters С́, З́ and Ѕ (representing IPA , and respectively).\n\nOpponents acknowledge that these sounds can be heard by many Montenegrin speakers, however, they do not form a language system and thus are allophones rather than phonemes. In addition, there are speakers in Montenegro who do not utter them and speakers of Serbian and Croatian outside of Montenegro (notably in Herzegovina and Bosanska Krajina) who do. In addition, introduction of those letters could pose significant technical difficulties (the Eastern European character encoding ISO/IEC 8859-2 does not contain the letter З, for example, and the corresponding letters were not proposed for Cyrillic).\n\nMontenegro's current prime minister Milo Đukanović declared his open support for the formalization of the Montenegrin language by declaring himself as a speaker of Montenegrin in an October 2004 interview with Belgrade daily \"Politika\". Official Montenegrin government communiqués are given in \"English and Montenegrin\" on the government's webpage.\n\nIn 2004, the government of Montenegro changed the school curriculum so that the name of the mandatory classes teaching the language was changed from \"Serbian language\" to \"Mother tongue (Serbian, Montenegrin, Croatian, Bosnian)\". This change was made, according to the government, in order to better reflect the diversity of languages spoken among citizens in the republic and to protect human rights of non-Serb citizens in Montenegro who declare themselves as speakers of other languages.\n\nThis decision resulted in a number of teachers declaring a strike and parents refusing to send their children to schools. The cities affected by the strike included Nikšić, Podgorica, Berane, Pljevlja and Herceg Novi.\n\nThe new letters had been used for official documents since 2009, but in February 2017, the Assembly of Montenegro removed them from any type of governmental documentation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35059180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35059180", "title": "Mutual exclusivity (psychology)", "text": "Mutual exclusivity (psychology)\n\nMutual exclusivity is a word learning constraint that involves the tendency to assign one label/name, and in turn avoid assigning a second label, to a single object. Mutual exclusivity is often discussed as one of three main lexical constraints, or word learning biases, that are believed to play major roles in word learning, the other two being the whole-object and taxonomic constraints. This assumption is typically first seen in the early stages of word learning by toddlers, but it is not limited to young childhood. Mutual exclusivity is often discussed by domain-specific accounts of language as limiting children’s hypotheses about the possible meanings of words. It is generally accepted that mutual exclusivity alone cannot account for the complexity of word learning but is instead “more like heuristics in problem-solving.\"\n\nResearch on mutual exclusivity as a lexical constraint first began in the 1980s. Markman and Wachtel (1988) designed what some consider to be the seminal study of mutual exclusivity. It involved six studies that analyzed children's willingness to assign an unfamiliar label to familiar or unfamiliar objects. In their first study, they placed two objects in front of 3- to 4-year-old children, one that had a label known to the children (familiar object) and one that did not have a known label (novel object). Once shown both objects, the children were then told \"show me the [nonsense syllable]\" to see which object the children would assign this new label. The children had a significant tendency to \"reject a second label for [a familiar] object, treating it, instead, as a label for a novel object.\" This is often referred to as a simple disambiguation task. In their remaining five studies, they examined whether familiarity to an object would [mediate?] whether or not children would assign a new label to the object as a name for the object itself or a label of a part of it. For example, Study 2 involved a familiar condition and unfamiliar condition. In the familiar condition, children were presented with a familiar object (in this case \"fish\") and asked whether a novel label (\"dorsal fin\") applied to the whole object or \"just this part\" (pointing to the fin). In the unfamiliar condition, children were presented with an unfamiliar object (\"lung\") and asked whether a novel label (\"trachea\") applied to the whole object or a part of it. Methods of studies 3-6 were general variations of this design and ultimately found similar results. When the object was familiar to the children, they overwhelmingly assigned the novel part label to a part of the object, rather than the whole object itself. When the object was unfamiliar to the children, they overwhelmingly assigned the novel part label to the whole object itself, rather than one of its parts. These studies set a precedent for how many researchers have studied mutual exclusivity to date.\n\nMerriman and Bowman (1989) offered a list of ways in which mutual exclusivity may influence infants’ word learning. First, mutual exclusivity might influence the infant's decision about the reference of a new word. For example, if a child is faced with a familiar object for which they already have a label, and an unfamiliar object, which they have not yet labeled, they are likely to map a novel word onto the unfamiliar object. This is called the disambiguation effect. Next, the bias might cause an infant to change the extension of a familiar word. In this case, a child might remove 'wolf' from their extension of 'dog' upon hearing an animal labeled a 'wolf.' This can be called the correction effect. As well, the bias might compel an infant to reject a new word, for instance, rejecting 'wolf' in favor of 'dog.' This is the rejection effect. Lastly, mutual exclusivity might influence word generalization. In this case, if a child knows an object to have a particular name, the child should not generalize other names to it. This is known as the restriction effect.\n\nSome studies have found positive correlations between children’s use of mutual exclusivity and their learned vocabulary, while others have found the opposite. In Callanan’s and Sabbagh’s (2004) study on parents’ facilitation of mutual exclusivity with their 12- to 24-month-olds, they found that having parents who gave two labels for an object to their child was positively correlated with having a productive vocabulary. Markman, Wasow, and Hansen (2003) found that “lexical constraints enable babies to learn words even under non-optimal conditions.”\n\nOne study (Stevens & Karmiloff-Smith, 1997) examined the use of lexical constraints in word learning in children with Williams syndrome, a rare neurodevelopmental disorder. Although they did not abide by other constraints such as the whole object or taxonomic constraints, they did exhibit fast mapping and mutual exclusivity.\n\nHalberda (2003) was one of the first studies to examine the limiting role of age on children’s exhibition of mutual exclusivity. He found a linear relationship between age and performance; that is, the older the child, the more likely they were to use mutual exclusivity in word learning. Grouped by age, 14-, 16-, and 17-month-olds were tested in a preferential looking paradigm in which they were presented with a familiar object and novel object, asked to “look at the dax,” and were recorded based on which object they looked at longest. The 17-month-olds looked at the novel object more than their original baseline preferences. The 16-month-olds looked at rates no higher than chance. The 14-month-olds actually looked at the familiar object (a car) after being asked to find the “dax.” \n\nOther studies have offered different timelines for different areas of development of this constraint in children. Bion, Borovsky, and Fernald (2013) claimed that their findings suggested that “the ability to find the referent of a novel word in ambiguous contexts is a skill that improves from 18 to 30 months of age.” The 18-month-olds in their sample did not reliably look at the novel object after labeling, whereas 24-month-olds did. Liittschwager and Markman (1994) found evidence of 16-month-olds exhibiting mutual exclusivity, suggesting that differences in methods could account for this discrepancy in results across studies. They also found age differences in which children can override mutual exclusivity and give second labels to objects. They presented 16- and 24-month-olds with an object, familiar or unfamiliar, which was given a novel label. It was hypothesized that the children presented with a familiar object would have more trouble accepting the new label than those presented with the unfamiliar object. They found that their hypothesis was correct for the 16-month-olds but not the 24-month-olds. As the researchers put it, the 24-month-olds were able to “override this default assumption” of mutual exclusivity and give a second label to an object. However, they also learned that the 24-month-olds were only able to do this when the information load was low; that is, when they were given multiple objects to learn the labels of, they had similar rates of difficulty in learning the second label as the 16-month-olds. It is well known that adults have less difficulty in overriding the assumption of mutual exclusivity, but this research suggests that this ability to override it may begin as early as age 2.\n\nA number of studies have shown that mutual exclusivity is not a bias exhibited in children alone. Halberda (2006) is one such study which showed that adults also exhibit mutually exclusivity. Specifically, they found that adults systematically avoided assigning the novel label to a known distractor and instead showed a significant looking preference to assigning said label to novel objects. Golinkoff, Hirsh-Pasek, Bailey, and Wenger (1992) also sought to determine whether adults would exhibit mutual exclusivity at similar rates to children. They found that every adult chose the novel object as the referent for the novel term in every trial. The adults’ performance was better than the 2.5-year-olds of their study, who performed slightly worse but still well above chance.\n\nBialystok and colleagues (2010) found that the younger children in their sample of 3- and 4.5-year-olds showed a higher tendency of exhibiting mutual exclusivity than the older children.\n\nBion, Borovsky, and Fernald (2013) claimed that their findings suggested that “the ability to find the referent of a novel word in ambiguous contexts is a skill that improves from 18 to 30 months of age.” The 18-month-olds in their sample did not reliably look at the novel object after labeling, whereas 24-month-olds did. The 24-month-olds did not show evidence of having remembered, or retained, the novel label after a waiting period, whereas 30-month-olds showed some signs of retention. \n\nLess research has been conducted specifically on children’s and adults’ retention of word-object relations learned through fast mapping. Horst and Samuelson (2008) found that 2-year-olds were able to assign a novel label to a novel object, but after a 5-minute waiting period, the children failed to remember the label. This is consistent with the study done by Bion, Borvesky, and Fernald (2013). In addition to examining 18- and 24-month-olds’ ability to map a new word to a new object, they also tested 24- and 30-month-olds’ retention of the novel labels. They found that 24-month-olds failed to remember the novel labels after a 5-minute waiting period. The 30-month-olds, however, did remember the label. \n\nOne study examined 3-year-olds, 4-year-olds, and adults who were given a novel label to a novel object. They were tested three times on whether they successfully mapped the label to the object, once immediately after being presented with the word-object relation, once a week later, and once a month later. They found that the adults were more successful than the 3- and 4-year-olds during the immediate assessment, but all groups performed similarly during the second and third assessments. Furthermore, there was no significant decline in performance by any of the age groups throughout all three assessments. Although not specifically related to mutual exclusivity, this research provides support for the hypothesis that individuals ages 2.5 and up who exhibit mutual exclusivity via fast mapping are able to retain the information they learned for extended periods of time.\n\nWhen tested by a simple disambiguation task, children who learned one language tended to rely on mutual exclusivity more often than children who learned multiple languages. Some evidence suggests that the more languages a child is taught, the less likely they are to exhibit the constraint. Byers-Heinlein and Werker (2009) was one of the first studies to examine the differences between the uses of mutual exclusivity in 17- and 18-month-old monolingual, bilingual, and trilingual children. Their monolingual subjects exhibited mutual exclusivity more often than their bilingual counterparts. Likewise, their bilingual subjects exhibited the constraint more often than their trilingual counterparts, who showed no reliance on mutual exclusivity. The number of languages learned, rather than vocabulary size, was predictive of children’s use of the constraint. \n\nOther studies have built upon this research by examining monolingual and bilingual children’s use of mutual exclusivity at ages older than 17 months. A 2017 study examined 2- to 4-year-olds and found that the bilingual children tended to rely less on mutual exclusivity than their monolingual counterparts. Bialystok, Barac, Blaye, and Poulin-Dubois (2010) reported a continuation in this trend in 4.5-year-olds, and a 1997 study by Davidson, Jergovic, Imami, and Theodos found similar trends in 6-year-old monolingual and bilingual children.\n\nAu and Glusman (1990) reported that the monolingual and bilingual children in their study knew enough about language to accept two names for the same object if the labels were from different languages. The separation in their use of mutual exclusivity appeared to occur when the two labels were from the same language. \n\nThese studies used a disambiguation task in which the children were presented with a familiar and unfamiliar object and asked to assign a novel label to one or the other. Another line of research using different methodology has yielded different results in monolingual, bilingual, and trilingual children’s use of mutual exclusivity. Yow and colleagues (2017) examined 4.5-year-olds’ use of the constraint, but they did not simply present the children with novel objects and labels or teach them the word-object association. Instead, the experimenters looked at the novel object when saying the novel label, so the children needed to use the speaker’s gaze to exhibit mutual exclusivity. The bilingual and trilingual children in this study did significantly better in the mutual exclusivity task than the monolingual children. The researchers suspected that this “bilingual advantage” was a result of their increased sensitivity to communicative contexts compared to monolingual children. Results from this study and others have challenged the way researchers understand the mechanisms involved with mutual exclusivity and the way the constraint is operationalized in research designs.\n\nEvidence suggests that mutual exclusivity is not solely a human bias. Kaminski, Call, and Fischer (2004) tested a dog's ability to fast map new names to new objects. Rico, a border collie, reliably knew over 200 names for over 200 toys. Researchers placed 7 familiar toys and 1 novel toy in a room, and Rico was asked to the room and retrieve some. When told to retrieve the new toy, which was referred to with an unfamiliar label, Rico brought the novel toy to the researcher 7 out of 10 sessions. Four weeks later, they tested his retention of the relation between the novel toy and name. They placed one of the unfamiliar toys that Rico successfully mapped in the original sessions in a room with four familiar toys and four novel toys. When asked to retrieve these target toys based on their original novel label, Rico successfully retrieved them in 3 out of 6 sessions. The researchers of this study noted that this retention is comparable to the performance of 3-year-olds.\n\nOne study found that parents reliably facilitate the use of mutual exclusivity in their children. In two studies, 12- to 24-month old children and their parents were recorded while doing free-play. In both studies, parents reliably preferred to give their children only one label for an object rather than two. When they did offer two, they often also gave clarifying information to explain why two labels were appropriate.\n\nThere exist several criticisms of mutual exclusivity.\n\nSome theorists believe that children possess this bias from the start of word learning, whereas others argue that it is slowly acquired throughout early childhood.\n\nDiesendruck and Markson (2001) argued that children’s avoidance of lexical overlap may actually be caused by the way researchers speak to them. In one of their studies, they found that children interpret speakers’ requests based on shared knowledge between them. In other words, speakers’ communicative intentions help clue children in on what the speaker wants them to say. \n\nSome researchers argue that examples of children learning second labels for objects, which violates the assumption of mutual exclusivity, is a telling sign that mutual exclusivity is not a significant constraint. Others have argued that documented use of mutual exclusivity being mostly exhibited by older children lessens the scope of the assumption.\n\nLiittschwager and Markman (1994) responded to these criticisms by arguing that mutual exclusivity assumes that it is more difficult to learn second labels for objects than first labels, not that learning second labels is an impossible feat. When they tested this, they found that the amount of information given to the children impacted their ability to learn second words for objects. When 2-year-olds only had one word to learn, they learned second labels as easily as first labels. However, when given an additional word to learn, 2-year-olds had more difficulty learning second labels for objects, but not first labels.\n\nMcMurray, Horst, and Samuelson (2012) offered an alternative assumption in researching lexical constraints and biases. Rather than accepting the assumption that determining the referent of a novel word is isomorphic to learning, they argue in favor of the assumption of understanding referent selection as an online process that is independent of long-term learning. \n\nSome researchers have criticized the indirect role of mutual exclusivity in word learning because an alternative explanation could account for children’s motivation to assign novel labels to novel objects. They may simply be motivated to fill the lexical gap created by a novel object rather than avoiding second labels. In other words, children may be motivated to give a name to objects that they do not already have a name for. \n\nMarkman, Wasow, and Hansen (2003) sought to address this criticism by eliminating the use of a novel object in their design. In Study 1, the researchers placed a familiar object (a bottle, for example) next to a bucket and asked some children to search for an object using a familiar label (\"find the bottle\") or a novel label (\"find the press\"). In Study 2, they used the same procedures except the familiar object was in the children's hands rather than near the bucket, and in Study 3, they removed the bucket entirely. Because the mutual exclusivity constraint assumes that children will be less willing to accept a second label for an object, the researchers hypothesized that children who were told to search for the press would spend more time searching than those who were asked to find the bottle. They found support for their hypothesis; in general, children in the Novel Label condition spent significantly more time searching than the other children. The researchers concluded that children are motivated to avoid assigning multiple labels to an object, thus supporting mutual exclusivity and eliminating the alternative explanation that filling lexical gaps is their primary motivator. \n"}
{"id": "5071028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5071028", "title": "Pitjantjatjara dialect", "text": "Pitjantjatjara dialect\n\nPitjantjatjara (; or ) is a dialect of the Western Desert language traditionally spoken by the Pitjantjatjara people of Central Australia. It is mutually intelligible with other varieties of the Western Desert language, and is particularly closely related to the Yankunytjatjara dialect. The names for the two groups are based on their respective words for 'come/go.' \n\nPitjantjatjara is a relatively healthy Aboriginal language, with children learning it. It is taught in some Aboriginal schools. The literacy rate for first language speakers is 50–70%; and is 10–15% for second-language learners. There is a Pitjantjatjara dictionary and translated portions of the New Testament of the Bible, from 2002.\n\nThere are slightly different standardised spellings used in the Northern Territory and Western Australia compared to South Australia, for example with the first two writing between and combinations and a between and , which SA does not use.\n\nPitjantjatjara has the following consonant inventory, written as shown in bold:\nPitjantjatjara has three vowels:\n\nPitjantjatjara vowels have a length contrast, indicated by writing them doubled. A colon used to be sometimes used to indicate long vowels: , , .\n\nPitjantjatjara orthography includes the following underlined letters, which can be either ordinary letters with underline formatting, or Unicode characters which include a line below:\n\n\nThe underline represents that the consonant in question is retroflex, rather than alveolar.\n\nSome features distinctive to the Pitjantjatjara dialect, as opposed to other Western Desert Language dialects, include \"-pa\" endings to words that simply end in a consonant in other dialects (this is reflective of a general aversion in PItjantjatjara to words ending with a consonant), and a reluctance to have \"y\" at the beginning of words.\n\nPitjantjatjara uses case marking to show the role of nouns within the clause as subject, object, location, etc. Pitjantjatjara is a language with split ergativity, since its nouns and pronouns show different case marking patterns.\n\nConsider the following example, where the subject of a transitive verb is marked with the ergative case and the object with the absolutive case:\n\nIt can be contrasted with the following sentence with an intransitive verb, where the subject takes the absolutive case:\nIn contrast to the ergative-absolutive pattern that applies to nouns, pronouns show a nominative-accusative pattern. Consider the following examples, with pronoun subjects:\n\nPitjantjatjara verbs inflect for tense. Pitjantjatjara has four different classes of verbs, each of which takes slightly different endings (the classes are named according to their imperative suffixes): ∅-class verbs, -class verbs, -class verbs, and -class verbs.\n\nIt also has systematic ways of changing words from one part of speech to another: making nouns from verbs, and vice versa. However, words formed may have slightly different meanings that cannot be guessed from the pattern alone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2969423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2969423", "title": "Positive statement", "text": "Positive statement\n\nIn the social sciences and philosophy, a positive or descriptive statement concerns what \"is\", \"was\", or \"will be\", and contains no indication of approval or disapproval (what should be). Positive statements are thus the opposite of normative statements. Positive statement is based on empirical evidence. For examples, \"An increase in taxation will result in less consumption\" and \"A fall in supply of petrol will lead to an increase in its price\". However, positive statement can be factually incorrect: \"The moon is made of green cheese\" is empirically false, but is still a positive statement, as it is a statement about what is, not what should be.\n\nPositive statements are distinct from normative statements. Positive statements are based on empirical evidence, can be tested, and involve no value judgements. Positive statements refer to what is and contain no indication of approval or disapproval. When values or opinions come into the analysis, then it is in the realm of normative economics. A normative statement expresses a judgment about whether a situation is desirable or undesirable, which can carry value judgements. These refer to what ought to be.\n\nPositive statements are widely used to describe something measurable, like the rate of inflation in an economy. They are mainly used in explanations of theories and concepts. Using a positive statement does not mean you can't have your own opinions on issues. However, when you are writing academic essays it's important to use positive statements to support an argument, since it can be verified by evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57662853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57662853", "title": "Pransukh Nayak", "text": "Pransukh Nayak\n\nPransukh Manilal Nayak (23 April 1910 – 12 March 1989) was an Indian Gujarati theatre actor, director, manager, and playwright from Gujarat, India. Born into a family of traditional theatre actors, he joined theatre troupes at a young age and rose to fame for his comic roles and female impersonations. His performances as a woman from Banaras in \"Kumali Kali\" and as Jivram Bhatt in \"Mithyabhiman\" were acclaimed. During his long career, he worked with many theatre companies and gave 22,455 performances, earning a listing in the 1989 \"Guinness Book of Records\".\n\nPransukh Nayak was born on 23 April 1910 in a village called Jagudan, which is now in Mehsana district, Gujarat, to a family of traditional Bhavai actors. His father Manilal Mulchand was a popular Bhavai actor and the people of nearby villages flocked to see his performances in \"vesha\"s (acts) of \"Ramapir\" and \"Chhelbatau\". Pransukh had participated in one performance when he was around seven or eight years old. He studied two levels in a Gujarati school.\n\nNayak was inspired by a performance by female impersonator Jaishankar Sundari to join a Bhavai troupe at the age of nine. He joined Deshi Natak Samaj in Surat, where he played female impersonator roles. He later worked with Aryaniti Natak Samaj—owned by Motiram Nandwana—and Vidyavinod Natak Samaj owned by Pyarelal Viththalrao Mehta. He later joined Mumbai Gujarati Natak Mandali, where he was trained under Surajram Nayak, Jaishankar Sundari and Bapulal Nayak. In Mumbai, he appeared in a supporting female role as Kashi—a woman from Banaras—in \"Kumali Kali\" (Delicate Bud, 1926), and later in \"College Kanya\" (College Girl, 1925), which brought him fame in the Bombay theatre circuit (now Mumbai) at the age of fifteen. He received his nickname \"Lucknowri Tetar\" due to his role in \"Kumali Kali\". He later diversified his performances, mostly in comic roles. He also acted in \"Jugal Jugari\" (Jugal the Gambler, 1902), \"Vijya Kalyani\", \"Pavitra Leelavati\", \"Sattano Mad\", \"Uma Devdi\", \"Ramviyog\", \"Veenaveli\", \"Santanona Vanke\", \"Rukshamani Haran\", \"Sati Damayanti\" and \"Vijayavijay\". He played several comedic duos with Chhagan Romeo.\n\nWhen Mumbai Gujarati Natak Mandali became defunct, Nayak joined Palitana Bhaktipradarshak Mandali and Prabhat Kalamandal. When these troupes also became defunct, he went to Ahmedabad and joined Natmandal, which was operated by Gujarat Vidhya Sabha. Here he was guided by Rasiklal Parikh, Jaishankar Sundari and Dina Pathak. He received acclaim for his performance as a Brahmin in Rasiklal Parikh's \"Mena Gurjari\" (Mena of Gujarat, 1953) and as a comic role of Jivram Bhatt in Dalpatram's \"Mithyabhiman\" (False Vanity, 1955). He also briefly worked with Darpana Academy of Performing Arts. He taught theatre at Shreyas Foundation in Ahmedabad for some time. During the last years of his life, Nayak started a theatre troupe called Pran Theatre, which performed educational plays for schoolchildren.\n\nNayak acted as a royal astrologer in the Gujarati film \"Bhavni Bhavai\". Apart from acting and direction, Nayak wrote eight plays including \"Balotiyana Balela\", \"Bandh Chheepna Moti\", \"Birbalni Chhatri\" and \"Balbhakta Prahalad\". His notes on commercial theatre and its history, documentation on Bhavai acts and notes of his experiences are archived in the Theatre Media Centre. His few images are also archived in the Gujarat Lokkala Foundation.\n\nIn \"Pransukh Nayak: Flashback\", Jitendra Thakkar notes that Pransukh Nayak made 1,050 performances with Deshi Natak Samaj, 400 with Vidhyavinod Natak Samaj, 205 with Aryaniti Natak Samaj, 325 in Hindi and 7,978 in Gujarati with Mumbai Gujarati Natak Mandali, 1,248 with Prabhat Kalamandal, 30 with Rangmandal, 531 with Natmandal, 412 with Darpana, 338 with Pran Theatre and 9,938 with other theatre companies—totalling 22,455 performances. The record was recorded in the 1989 \"Guinness Book of Records\".\n\nPransukh Nayak died from cancer on 12 March 1989 in Ahmedabad.\n\nHe was awarded Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1974. On 13 September 1963, he was felicitated in Ahmedabad by Gujarat State Sangeet Natak Akademi. His 60th year was celebrated under Vadilal Kamdar, Mayor of Ahmedabad. He was felicitated by Vadodara Municipal Corporation as well.\n\nHe acted in following plays:\n"}
{"id": "1377775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377775", "title": "Prompt corner", "text": "Prompt corner\n\nIn a theatre, the prompt corner or prompt box is the place where the prompter—usually the stage manager in the US or deputy stage manager in the UK—stands in order to coordinate the performance and to remind performers of their lines when required. It is traditionally located at stage left.\n\nHistorically, the prompt corner was situated at stage left. \"Prompt side\" (abbreviated to PS) and \"opposite prompt\" (abbreviated to OP, sometimes called \"off prompt\") are widely used terms for stage left and stage right. However some theatres choose to install prompt corner in a discrete area of the auditorium. Certain theatres which locate their prompt corner on stage right would inform cast and crew that they were operating on a bastard prompt system. \n\nIn opera houses, the prompt box is traditionally located downstage centre; see prompter (opera).\n\nThe prompt corner is usually equipped with a \"prompt desk\" to facilitate the coordination of a performance. This can vary from a small table in the wings to an elaborate installation in a dedicated booth, being equipped with all the necessary aids for the specific production and venue. The prompt desk minimally holds a carefully annotated copy of the performance script, with blocking and other stage directions and, in professional theatres:\n\n"}
{"id": "45263805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45263805", "title": "Red Circle (law firms)", "text": "Red Circle (law firms)\n\nThe Red Circle (\"红圈\" in Chinese) is an informal term for leading law firms in China.\n\nThe term was first used by The Lawyer magazine in a report in March 2014, which used the term to define eight top-tier law firms in China. The eight firms include: Commerce & Finance (通商), Global Law Office (环球), Haiwen & Partners (海问), Jingtian & Gongcheng (竞天公诚), Jun He Law Offices (君合), King & Wood Mallesons (金杜), Zhong Lun (中伦), in Beijing; and Fangda (方达) in Shanghai. The list was later repeated by The Lawyer in its 2014 issue of a China-focused legal market report. Since then, the term and the list have been adopted in China by other media.\n\n"}
{"id": "54053897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54053897", "title": "Riva Nyri Précil", "text": "Riva Nyri Précil\n\nRiva Nyri Prècil (born March 28, 1989, Brooklyn, New York) is a Haitian-American singer, songwriter, and author.\n\nRiva Nyri Précil was born in Brooklyn. Her mother, Michelle Karshan, is an American of Russian Jewish and Irish descent and ran a radio station in the 1980s, called “Sak Pase” while her father, Privat Précil was a Haitian who worked in the US as a journalist and lawyer. Riva and her family moved to Haiti she was five years old as her mother got a job in Haiti. Her mother worked for the Haitian government specifically on foreign press liaising, using her foreign heritage as an advantage to manage the foreign press who visited Haiti.\n\nWhile growing up in Haiti, Riva was exposed to and studied under many of the great masters of Haiti's cultural and artistic scene. She was in a theatre troupe, Ateliee Edoision, and took various dancing with Viviane Gauthier and Artcho Danse— sculpting, painting, and singing classes, which will later develop her as a wholesome artist skilled in several aspects of art. Riva learned her sculpting and painting skills from renowned Haitian artist, Jean-Claude \"Tiga\" Garoute. In her early teens, Riva already started to teach art classes to young children who were in her neighborhood.\n\nShe was already musically influenced by her mother as she listened to exotic and various genres of music from all over the world starting from jazz and soul, to Indian and Arabic music. As her family was very open-minded to experience, she visited lots of Haitian Vodou ceremonies, learning both the beautiful and eerie parts of the Vodou culture. When Riva was fifteen she had to leave Haiti and return to New York because of the dangerous condition of Haiti due to a 2004 Haitian coup d'état.\n\nWhile back in New York, she attended LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts as a sophomore where she majored in vocal performance. She soon graduated in 2007 and continued her education at Loyola University of New Orleans. She received her BA in Music Therapy from Loyola University of New Orleans in 2011 then completed her one-year residency in New York at Beth Israel Hospital.\n\nShe returned to the United States as a teenager and attended LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts. After graduating from LaGuardia High School for Performing Arts, she received her BA in Music Therapy from the Loyola University of New Orleans in 2011 and continued on to complete her one-year residency in New York at Beth Israel Hospital.\n\nDuring her time in Loyola University, she became skillful in playing guitar and piano and continued singing. When the 2010 Haiti earthquake happened, Riva and few other Haitian students, who were less than ten people, organized a giant fundraiser to support people back in Haiti.\n\nAfter Riva graduated Loyola University Riva came back to New York. In 2014, Riva realized the lack of Haitian Creole contents in the world and felt a “sense of duty to dedicate herself to keep the Haitian art alive and conserve it for her ancestors and for her country.” This led her to start working on her first album “Perle De Culture”. By meeting her present fiance in the end of 2013, Monvelyno Alexis, who also is a prominent musician, Riva worked with him to create an album independently.\n\nThe songs were mainly traditional Haitian music with a modern twist. The songs were newly arranged in a jazz style by her fiance, Alexis. Riva worked during the daytime and recorded songs at night at a studio in Brooklyn called “Kamoken Studio”. The studio was owned by Chico Boyer, who was a pioneer of Haitian roots music. He even personally participated in a few songs on the album as a bass player. In 2015, the album was completed and released through CD Baby which allowed Riva to officially launch herself and put her music out to the public.\n\nEver since her album was released, she is constantly gigging around the world to promote Haitian culture and its beauty. She has performed at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival —alongside Emeline Michel —Carifesta XII hosted in Haiti, the Haitian Flag Day Celebration at Brooklyn's Borough Hall, and various other ceremonies. Recently, she has been working with a label, “Strictly Rhythm” to musically expand her horizon and work in different styles of music such as Afro House and dance music.\n\nHer career as an author also started in 2014. Her interest in writing Haitian books initially started from translating children’s books in Haitian Creole from a non-profit organization, Li Li Li, organized by Riva and her mother to translate various children's book in Haitian Creole and to train people to read the books to children in Haiti after the collapse of a lot of schools in Haiti (2011–12).\n\nIn 2014, Riva decided to write a children’s book about mermaids and their world underwater, which was set in Jacmel. She submitted her work to a Haitian short story competition hosted by Educa Vision, and by winning the competition her book, \"Anaëlle Ak Lasirèn\", was published in 2015.\n\nEver since she was young, she was influenced by various genres of music originating from all parts of the world. However, she was primarily influenced by Haitian music, and jazz, which allowed her to grow up to be the musician she is now.\n\nHer style of music and vocals came through as she successfully merged jazz and Haitian music. Her muses, who influenced her ever since she was young, are Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald, and Sarah Vaughan. She actually performed Holiday’s and Fitzgerald's pieces for her audition to enter LaGuardia High School for Performing Arts.\n\nAfter Riva graduated from Loyola University, she introduced \"Love, Nyri\", a modern handmade jewelry line, in 2012. The design of the jewelry is very much inspired by a traditional Haitian jewelry style. Nowadays, most of her products are custom order. The materials used range from brass, gold, silver, crystals, to various gems.\n\nAs Riva has been taking dance classes since she was young and has taught several dance classes for the 2010 Haiti earthquake fundraiser, she continues to teach traditional Haitian dance in New York City.\n\nHer current dance class “tout se pa” which means “no wrong steps” covers traditional Haitian dances such as Yanvalou, Congo, Nago, Ibo, Mayi, Rabonday, and Banda. Her dance class is targeted towards Haitians in New York City who never had a chance to experience their own culture.\n\nShe is a prominent performer and has performed at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival, Carifesta XII hosted in Haiti, and the Haitian Flag Day Celebration at Brooklyn's Borough Hall. She was a panelist and performer at the Women's Empowerment Luncheon hosted by the Haitian American Student Association at Syracuse University in February 2016. Riva performs in New York City alongside her band Bohio Music.\n"}
{"id": "30930399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30930399", "title": "Sambahsa", "text": "Sambahsa\n\nSambahsa or Sambahsa-Mundialect is an international auxiliary language (IAL) devised by French Dr. Olivier Simon.\nAmong IALs it is categorized as a worldlang. It is based on the Proto Indo-European language (PIE), with a highly simplified grammar.\nThe language was first released on the Internet in July 2007; prior to that, the creator claims to have worked on it for eight years. According to one of the rare academic studies addressing recent auxiliary languages, \"Sambahsa has an extensive vocabulary and a large amount of learning and reference material\".\n\nThe first part of the name of the language, Sambahsa, is taken from two Malay words, \"sama\" and \"bahsa\" which mean 'same' and 'language' respectively.\nMundialect, on the other hand, is a result of combining two Romance words, \"mondial\" (worldwide) and \"dialect\" (dialect).\n\nSambahsa tries to preserve the original spellings of words as much as possible and this makes its orthography complex, though still kept regular. There are four grammatical cases: nominative, accusative, dative and genitive.\nSambahsa, though based on PIE, borrows a good proportion of its vocabulary from languages such as Arabic, Chinese, Indonesian, Swahili and Turkish, which belong to various other language families.\n\nSambahsa's phonology has little to do with Proto-Indo-European phonology, though the majority of its vocabulary comes from PIE.\nThe changes from PIE are not regular, since the creator of Sambahsa has tried to avoid homophones, which would have become common after the elimination of some PIE sounds like laryngeals or some aspirated consonants. However, any person proficient with Proto-Indo-European roots will easily recognize them when they appear in Sambahsa.\nUnlike some auxlangs like Esperanto, Sambahsa does not use the \"one letter = one sound\" principle, nor diacritics, but instead relies on a regular and complex system that combines the 26 letters of the basic Latin alphabet. This system was chosen to preserve the recognizability of words taken from West-European languages, where orthography plays a key role. For example, according to the rules of Sambahsa, \"bureau\" is pronounced as in French, and \"point\" as in English.\n\nSambahsa has nine vowels (not counting the lengthened form of these vowels), two semi-vowels (IPA: [j] and [w]) and twenty consonants. To help language learners, and because IPA symbols cannot be written with all keyboards, a special simpler system has been developed, called \"Sambahsa Phonetic Transcription\", or \"SPT\".\n\nCompared to other conlangs, Sambahsa words are short, often as short as English words, and highly consonantic. This latter point is in accordance with the PIE background of Sambahsa, where roots have often a consonant-vocal-consonant structure.\n\nLikewise, Sambahsa's accentuation rules are complex but regular, and tend to follow what is often found in German or Italian. This predictability implies that all words with the same orthography are pronounced and stressed the same way as each other. Thus, for example, while German Präsident and Italian presidente are stressed on the \"ent\" syllable, Sambahsa \"president\" is stressed on the \"i\", since \"president\" can also mean \"they preside\", and a final \"ent\" never bears the stress. This regularity of accentuation can be compared with English \"president\" and \"to preside\", two words that bear the stress on different syllables, though they share the same origin.\n\nIn Sambahsa, declensions are only compulsory for pronouns. The declensions of these pronouns (demonstrative/interrogative & relative/personal) are mostly parallel, and often show similarities with their Proto-Indo-European ancestors. Thus, in all Sambahsa declensions, the neuter nominative and accusative are identical, as it was the case in PIE. There are identical forms for the relative and interrogative pronouns, as well for the third person pronoun and the definitive article (\"the\" in English).\n\nSambahsa has two numbers (singular and plural; the dual number of PIE has not been preserved) and four grammatical genders : masculine, feminine, neutral and \"undetermined\". This last gender, which is an innovation from PIE, is used when a noun of uncertain or unknown gender is referred to, and, in the plural, for groups containing elements of different genders. The creator of Sambahsa introduced this non-PIE element to avoid the \"gender\" dispute found in Esperanto.\n\nGender is attributed in Sambahsa according to the \"true nature\" of the noun referred to, as English speakers do with \"he\", \"she\" and \"it\".\n\nSambahsa has four grammatical cases: nominative, accusative, dative and genitive; however, their attribution tries to be as logical as possible, and not arbitrary as in many modern Indo-European languages. The nominative is the case of the Subject, and the form under which words are given in dictionaries. Except for verbs describing a movement or a position (where the required prepositions ought to be used), all transitive verbs must introduce the accusative case in the first place, before an eventual dative case. However, the dependent clause of indirect speech is considered as a direct object, leading to verbs introducing an indirect object, even if there is no visible direct object.\n\nCompare :\n\nIn Sambahsa, all prepositions trigger the accusative.\n\nThe genitive indicates possession, and is used after adjectives that can introduce a dependent clause.\n\nCompare :\n\nFor substantives and adjectives, there are declined \"free endings\" (i.e. non-compulsory) used most often in literary context for euphonics or poetry. This system is inspired by the euphonic endings found in the Standard Arabic Language.\n\nIn Sambahsa, all verbs are regular, except \"ses\" (to be), \"habe\" (to have), and \"woide\" (\"to know\", in the meaning of French \"savoir\" or German wissen). Sambahsa verbs are indicated in dictionaries not under their infinitive form, but their bare stem, because the whole conjugation can be deduced from the form of this stem.\nThe main tenses of Sambahsa are present and\npast, but many other tenses can be obtained through the use of affixes or auxiliary verbs. Sambahsa uses the following endings, which are close to those found in many Indo-European languages.\n\nSambahsa is unusual among auxlangs because of its use of a predictable ablaut system for the past tense and passive past participles. For example, \"eh\" within a verbal stem turns to \"oh\". Other verbs that cannot use ablaut can drop their nasal infix, or use an improved version of the De Wahl's rules. Finally, the remaining verbs simply add the past tense endings, which are optional for verbs of the categories described above.\n\nTherefore, this system qualifies Sambahsa as a language belonging to the Indo-European family of languages, though it remains a constructed language.\n\nBecause of its rather large vocabulary for an auxlang (as of August 2014, the full Sambahsa-English dictionary contained more than 15000 entries), it is difficult to assess the share of each language in Sambahsa's eclectic wordstock. However, the main layers are (either reconstructed or extrapolated) Indo-European vocabulary, Greco-Roman scientific and technical vocabulary (which is not discussed below, as it is more or less comparable to what is found in English) and multiple sources extending from Western Europe to Eastern Asia.\n\nThe core of Sambahsa's vocabulary is undoubtedly of Indo-European origin. Only a few Sambahsa words can be traced back to pre-Indo-European times (as \"kamwns\", chamois, cf. Basque language : \"ahuntz\"). Many basic Sambahsa words are thus very close to their reconstructed Indo-European counterparts. See (Sambahsa / Proto-Indo-European) : \"eghi / *H₁eghis\" (hedgehog), \"ghelgh / *ghelghe-\" (gland), \"pehk / *pek\" (to comb), \"skand / *skand\" (to jump), \"peungst / *pn̥kʷsti-\" (fist), \"wobhel / *wobhel-\" (weevil), \"gwah / *gweH₂\" (to go), \"tox / *tòksom\" (\"yew wood\" in Sambahsa; \"yew\" in PIE), \"treb / *trêbs\" (dwelling), \"oit / *H₁òitos\" (oath), \"poti / *potis\" (Sir, lord). But less attested Indo-European vocabulary is found in Sambahsa too. For example, the common Sambahsa word for \"person\" is \"anghen\", as in \"semanghen\" = \"someone, somebody\", and can be derived from PIE \"?*H₂enH₁ǵh\", only found in Old Armenian \"anjn\" (person) and Old Norse \"angi\" (smell). And \"motic\" (hoe) may be a cognate of Old Church Slavonic \"motyka\" and English \"mattock\".\n\nThough Sambahsa, like any other conlang, has derivation rules, it sometimes uses backformation too. For example, the relation between Lithuanian \"bendras\" (companion), Old Greek \"pentheros\" (father-in-law) and Sanskrit \"bandhu-\" (companion) is uncertain; however Sambahsa \"reconstructs\" this root as \"behndwr\" from \"behnd\" 'to bind'. PIE has \"*dhéǵhom\" 'earth' and \"*dhinéǵh-\" (with nasal infix) 'to shape, to make pottery'; accordingly, Sambahsa has \"(di)ghom\" and \"dinegh\", but the latter can be understood as \"to put earth on\" if we refer to \"yug\" (yoke) and \"yuneg\" (to join), both from PIE \"*yugom\" and \"*yunég-\".\n\nThe Sambahsa word for 'ice pellet' is \"kersnit\"; it rests on the word \"kersen\" 'frozen snow', itself from Old Norse \"hjarn\", Lithuanian \"šarma\" (frost) and Russian \"serën\". But the suffix \"-it\" was abstracted from PIE words like \"*sepit\" 'grain of wheat' and \"*H₂elbit\" 'grain of barley'; thus \"kersnit\" can be understood as 'a grain of frozen snow'.\n\nA characteristic of Sambahsa is to include words found in different language families, while the most famous auxiliary languages tend to limit themselves to a compilation of Romance vocabulary with some borrowings from the Germanic languages. For example:\n\n\nThough they belong to different language families, the languages spoken in Southeast Europe share a number of common grammatical features and of loanwords due to their historical background. That's why Sambahsa includes words from this region.\n\n\nA significant part of Sambahsa's vocabulary comes from Arabic and Persian. Both languages have extensively provided loanwords to a lexical continuum ranging from the Atlantic Ocean to Indonesia because, respectively, of the spread of Islam and the brilliance of the former Persian civilization. Sambahsa learning materials often call this stratum \"Muslim\".\n\n\nClassical Chinese has heavily influenced the wordstock of neighbouring languages, mostly Japanese, Korean and Vietnamese. As a result, Sambahsa incorporates some \"Sinitic\" vocabulary, but the phonetic differences between these various languages can be high.\n\n\nNot all Sambahsa \"Sinitic\" words come from Classical Chinese. The Min Nan language of Southern China provided loanwords to some South-East Asian languages, and some of these borrowings are, in turn, found in Sambahsa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1014183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014183", "title": "Secondary orality", "text": "Secondary orality\n\nSecondary orality is a concept in the work of scholar Walter J. Ong, as first described in his book \"Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word\", published in 1982 (2nd ed. 2002), Walter J. Ong and discussing the differences between oral and literate cultures. \n\nIn this book, Ong used the phrase ‘secondary orality’, describing it as “essentially a more deliberate and self-conscious orality, based permanently on the use of writing and print” (Ong, 1982, p. 133). According to his way of thinking, secondary orality is not primary orality, the orality of pre-literate cultures. Oral societies operated on polychronic time, with many things happening at once—socialization played a great role in the operation of these cultures, memory and memorization were of greater importance, increasing the amount of copiousness and redundancy. Oral cultures were additive rather than subordinate, closer to the human life world, and more situational and participatory than the more abstract qualities of literate cultures. \n\nSecondary orality is orality that is dependent on literate culture and the existence of writing, such as a television anchor reading the news or radio. While it exists in sound, it does not have the features of primary orality because it presumes and rests upon literate thought and expression, and may even be people reading written material. Thus, secondary orality is usually not as repetitive, redundant, agonistic, etc. the way primary orality is, and cultures that have a lot of secondary orality are not necessarily similar to primarily oral cultures. Secondary orality should not be confused with \"oral residue\" in which a culture has not fully transitioned to literate / written culture and retains many of the characteristics of primary oral cultures. Secondary orality is a phenomenon of post-literacy era, whereas oral residue is a stage in the transition from pre-literate to literate.\n\nOng notes that human communication has been dominated by oral culture, and the first signs of literacy date only 6 000 years ago. Tom Pettitt, Associate Professor of English at the University of Southern Denmark, agrees with Ong, \"et al.\", by considering literate learning more the anomaly than the rule. He considers this to be a post-Gutenberg era where knowledge is formed through digital media, delivered over the internet. Calling the previous 500 years a \"Gutenberg Parenthesis\", he explains that before Gutenberg, knowledge was formed orally and, now, in this post-Gutenberg era, knowledge is formed—increasingly—through \"secondary orality\" on the Internet. The term was coined by Professor Lars Ole Sauerberg. \n\nIn The Gutenberg Galaxy, Marshall McLuhan discussed his notion of the \"global village\", a concept that can be related to Ong's account of secondary orality. Liliana Bounegru notes the emergence of social media (e.g. Facebook) and microblogging (i.e.Twitter) are re-tribalizing our cultures. Conversations in these social spaces are written, but are more conversational in tone than written communications; they are \"rapid communication with large groups of people in a speed that would resemble oral storytelling, without having to share the same physical space with your audience.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2760677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2760677", "title": "Selfless service", "text": "Selfless service\n\nSelfless service or Seva () in Sikhism, its ordained philosophy, in Sikh scripture, the theology, and is a service which is performed without any expectation of result or award for performing it. Such services can be performed to benefit other human beings or society. \"Seva is an old Sanskrit term, which originally referred to the service performed by members of the low castes to those of the higher castes\". A more recent interpretation of the word is \"dedication to others\".<ref> "}
{"id": "19122288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19122288", "title": "Shouting match", "text": "Shouting match\n\nA shouting match is an argument or debate characterized by the loud volume or intensity of the participants.\n\nLarge assemblies may easily degenerate into shouting matches as the participants raise their voices just in order to be heard. To control this tendency towards chaos, rules of conduct such as Robert's Rules are often used.\n\nSome assemblies may choose this form of discourse deliberately so that creative contributions are not stifled by formal rules. The Bourbaki working parties to establish a definitive new reference work for mathematics were conducted in this way, being described as “\"Two or three monologues shouted at top voice, seemingly independently of one another\"” by Armand Borel, who attributed the success of this process to the commitment and hard work of the members. At the General Electric company, the successful chief executive, Jack Welch, forced his managers to justify their positions by intensive argument that often became shouting matches. The result was to make the management confront reality and motivate them to make their proposals work.\n\nShouting matches should be avoided in commercial interactions between customers and suppliers because they tend to poison relations between the parties and so reduce the possibility of a productive deal. Training and role-playing may be used to develop the emotional intelligence required to handle such situations effectively.\n\nIn public situations such as a nightclub or bar, staff that get into shouting matches with patrons look badly unprofessional. If they instead ignore the insults, the intoxicated customers will get frustrated and leave.\n\nOnline communication in internet forums commonly takes the form of a shouting match, sometimes using ALL CAPS to denote shouting. This is due to the anonymity which reduces the possibility of sanction for intemperate speech. So, rather than a listening and rational exchange, the format fosters rage and aggression which results in extreme opinions and insults.\n\nThe Yanomamo people of the Orinoco are known as \"The Fierce People\". When two tribes meet for a feast, their chiefs start by engaging in a ritualised shouting match in which they ostensibly engage in fierce conflict but, by their rhythmic interaction, establish a satisfying bond.\n\n"}
{"id": "170736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170736", "title": "Understory", "text": "Understory\n\nIn forestry and ecology, understory (or understorey, underbrush, undergrowth) comprises plant life growing beneath the forest canopy without penetrating it to any great extent, but above the forest floor. Only a small percentage of light penetrates the canopy so understory vegetation is generally shade tolerant. The understory typically consists of trees stunted through lack of light, other small trees with low light requirements, saplings, shrubs, vines and undergrowth. Small trees such as holly and dogwood are understory specialists.\n\nIn temperate deciduous forests, many understory plants start into growth earlier than the canopy trees to make use of the greater availability of light at this time of year. A gap in the canopy caused by the death of a tree stimulates the potential emergent trees into competitive growth as they grow upwards to fill the gap. These trees tend to have straight trunks and few lower branches. At the same time, the bushes, undergrowth and plant life on the forest floor become more dense. The understory experiences greater humidity than the canopy, and the shaded ground does not vary in temperature as much as open ground. This causes a proliferation of ferns, mosses and fungi and encourages nutrient recycling, which provides favorable habitats for many animals and plants.\n\nThe understory is the underlying layer of vegetation in a forest or wooded area, especially the trees and shrubs growing between the forest canopy and the forest floor. \nPlants in the understory comprise an assortment of seedlings and saplings of canopy trees together with specialist understory shrubs and herbs. Young canopy trees often persist in the understory for decades as suppressed juveniles until an opening in the forest overstory permits their growth into the canopy. In contrast understory shrubs complete their life cycles in the shade of the forest canopy. Some smaller tree species, such as dogwood and holly, rarely grow tall and generally are understory trees.\n\nThe canopy of a rainforest is typically about 10m (33ft) thick, and intercepts around 95% of the sunlight. The understory receive less intense light than plants in the canopy and such light as does penetrate is impoverished in wavelengths of light that are most effective for photosynthesis. Understory plants therefore must be shade tolerant—they must be able to photosynthesize adequately using such light as does reach their leaves. They often are able to use wavelengths that canopy plants cannot. In temperate deciduous forests towards the end of the leafless season, understory plants take advantage of the shelter of the still leafless canopy plants to \"leaf out\" before the canopy trees do. This is important because it provides the understory plants with a window in which to photosynthesize without the canopy shading them. This brief period (usually 1–2 weeks) is often a crucial period in which the plant can maintain a net positive carbon balance over the course of the year.\n\nAs a rule forest understories also experience higher humidity than exposed areas. The forest canopy reduces solar radiation, so the ground does not heat up or cool down as rapidly as open ground. Consequently, the understory dries out more slowly than more exposed areas do. The greater humidity encourages epiphytes such as ferns and mosses, and allows fungi and other decomposers to flourish. This drives nutrient cycling, and provides favorable microclimates for many animals and plants, such as the pygmy marmoset.\n\n\nhttps://www.eolss.net/sample-chapters/C10/E5-03-01-08.pdf\n"}
{"id": "12584623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12584623", "title": "Urien Wiliam", "text": "Urien Wiliam\n\nUrien Wiliam (7 November 1929 – 21 October 2006), was a Welsh language novelist and dramatist.\n\nHe was born in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, the son of Professor Stephen J. Williams, an academic at Swansea University. He was an expert in the grammar of the Welsh language, and studied the language at Swansea University, before going on to the University of Liverpool to take a doctorate in psychology; in which he translated the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children into Welsh, and produced norms for Welsh-speaking children.\n\nHis first teaching post was at Trinity College, Carmarthen.\n\nHe won the Drama Medal at the National Eisteddfod of Wales in 1972 and 1973. After becoming a freelance writer, he produced scripts for the popular Welsh-language children's TV programme, \"Wil Cwac Cwac\".\n\nHe died at Penarth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26054349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26054349", "title": "V. K. Madhavan Kutty", "text": "V. K. Madhavan Kutty\n\nV. K. Madhavan Kutty (1934–2005) was a journalist from the state of Kerala, India. He was long associated with the \"Mathrubhumi\" newspaper, a Malayalam daily based out of Kozhikode. He was stationed at New Delhi as Chief of Bureau for most of his career. He was well known among the journalism circles in the capital owing to his astute professionalism and efficiency. He retired as the editor of \"Mathrubhumi\" after serving for 40 years. He was also one of the founding directors of the Malayalam satellite channel Asianet. Madhavankutty survived an aircrash which killed Union Minister Mohan Kumaramangalam and several others in 1973.\n\nApart from many in-depth articles, V K Madhavankutty has also authored several Malayalam & English novels. Some of his works are\n\nHe was honoured with the Sahitya Akademi Award and Padmashree (2002) by the Government of India.\n\nMadhavankutty died on 1 November 2005 following a cardiac arrest in New Delhi.\n"}
{"id": "17293328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17293328", "title": "Vidya Subramaniam", "text": "Vidya Subramaniam\n\nVidya Subramaniam (, born 1957) is a Tamil author. She has been writing novels and short stories for close to three decades. Born and brought up in Mylapore, she has to her credit 100 books and has won awards including a Tamil Nadu State Award.\nAn anthology of her short stories has been translated into English titled \"Beyond the Frontier\". Two of her short stories have also been translated and featured in a book titled \"Anthology of Tamil Pulp Fiction\" from the Blaft stable.\n\n"}
{"id": "2215469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215469", "title": "Vorstadt", "text": "Vorstadt\n\nIn German, a Vorstadt is an area of a city, outside the Altstadt or the city centre, but tightly connected to it and densely populated, thus distinguished from \"Vororte\".\n\nHistorically, a \"Vorstadt\" was a settlement outside the city walls, sometimes dedicated to specific trades. Later, large Vorstädte appeared in Gründerzeit era. Places named \"Vorstadt\" include Vorstadt (Königsberg) and Oranienburger Vorstadt.\n\nIts French equivalent is \"faubourg\".\n\nIn Vienna, the historical \"Vorstädte\" need to be distinguished from the \"Vororte\". The Vorstädte were located outside the city walls, but within the \"Linienwall\", a second ring of fortifications outside the city. The city walls were located in the place of the modern Ringstraße, while the \"Linienwall\" has been removed to give way for the \"Gürtel\" (both being rings of streets around the central city). Thus, the \"Vorstädte\" correspond to the so-called \"inner districts\" of Vienna (2nd to 9th and 20th districts).\n"}
{"id": "56035413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56035413", "title": "Wanyä language", "text": "Wanyä language\n\nWanyä (autonym: '; also called Muchi) is a Loloish language of northern Laos. It is spoken in Ipoeching village, Bun Tay District, Phongsaly Province (Shintani 2001).\n\nWanyä is a sister of the Sila cluster of languages that includes Sila, Khir, Cosao, Paza (Phusang), and Phana’ (Bana).\n\n"}
{"id": "3876043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3876043", "title": "Welsh Language Act 1993", "text": "Welsh Language Act 1993\n\nThe Welsh Language Act 1993, is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which put the Welsh language on an equal footing with the English language in Wales with regard to the public sector.\n\nThe Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542 had made English the only language of public administration in Wales. The Welsh Courts Act 1942 removed any doubt about the right to use Welsh in courts providing that the Welsh speaker was under a disadvantage in having to speak English, but this was very narrowly defined by subsequent case law. The Welsh Language Act 1967, overturned these decisions and gave rise to the concept of 'equal validity' between the Welsh and English languages. As a result, Governmental Departments began preparing documents in Welsh, and following a campaign of destroying or vandalising unilingual English road signs by members of Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg (The Welsh Language Society), local councils were allowed to provide many bilingual signs in Wales. It was however the Welsh Language Act 1993 which established that 'in the course of public business and the administration of justice, so far as is reasonably practicable, the Welsh and English languages are to be treated on the basis of equality.' \n\nThe Act achieved three things:\n\n\nThe powers given to the Secretary of State for Wales under this Act were later devolved to the National Assembly for Wales. Delegated or secondary legislation has been made under this Act by the Secretary of State, and subsequently the National Assembly requiring more public bodies to prepare what are known as Welsh Language Schemes which show their commitment to the 'equality of treatment' principle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1027252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027252", "title": "Windows Glyph List 4", "text": "Windows Glyph List 4\n\nWindows Glyph List 4, or more commonly WGL4 for short, also known as the \"Pan-European character set\", is a character repertoire on recent Microsoft operating systems comprising 657 Unicode characters. Its purpose is to provide an implementation guideline for producers of fonts for the representation of European natural languages; fonts that provide glyphs for the entire set of characters can claim WGL4 compliance and thus can expect to be compatible with a wide range of software.\n\n, WGL4 characters were the only ones guaranteed to display correctly on Microsoft Windows. More recent versions of Windows display far more glyphs.\n\nBecause many fonts are designed to fulfill the WGL4 set, this set of characters is likely to work (display as other than replacement glyphs) on many computer systems. For instance your browser is probably able to draw all the characters in the table below except for the two private use, compared to the many missing characters that may be seen in other articles about Unicode.\n\nThe repertoire, defined by Microsoft, encompasses all the characters found in Microsoft’s code pages 1252 (\"Windows Western\"), 1250 (\"Windows Central European\"), 1251 (\"Windows Cyrillic\"), 1253 (\"Windows Greek\"), 1254 (\"Windows Turkish\"), and 1257 (\"Windows Baltic\"), as well as characters from MS-DOS codepage 437.\n\nIt does not cover the combining diacritics used by Vietnamese-related code page 1258, the Thai letters used in code page 874, Hebrew and Arabic letters covered by code pages 1255 and 1256, or the ideographic characters used by code pages 932, 936, 949 and 950.\n\nIt also does not cover the Romanian letters Ș, ș, Ț, and ț (U+0218–B), which were added to several of Microsoft’s fonts for Windows Vista (long after the WGL4 repertoire was originally defined).\n\nIn version 1.5 of the OpenType Specification (May 2008) four Cyrillic characters were added to the WGL4 character set: Ѐ (U+0400), Ѝ (U+040D), ѐ (U+0450) and ѝ (U+045D).\n\n\n\n"}
