{"id": "19806091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19806091", "title": "1946 African Mine Workers' Union strike", "text": "1946 African Mine Workers' Union strike\n\nThe African Mine Workers' Strike was a labour dispute involving mine workers of Witwatersrand in South Africa. It started on 12 August, 1946 and lasted approximately a week. The strike was attacked by police and over the week, at least 1,248 workers were wounded and at least 9 killed.\n\nIn 1941 a miners' conference was called by the Transvaal Provincial Committee of the African National Congress. The conference was supported by Paramount Chief of Zululand and trade unions.\n\nIt was here that the African Mine Workers' Union came into being and elected a committee under the presidency of J. B. Marks, who also became President of the Transvaal African National Congress.\n\nAt first the union was not recognised by the Chamber of Mines, but after sustained pressure for better wages and conditions, the prime minister, Field Marshal Jan Smuts, announced some piecemeal increases improvements in conditions while at the same time issuing War Measure No. 1425—banning gatherings of more than twenty people on mining property without permission.\n\nDespite union officials being arrested in 1944 at a meeting in Witwatersrand and in Springs, a conference was held in May 1946 which decided to approach the government with demands for a ten shillings a day wage and other improvements—or to take strike action.\n\nOn August 12, 1946, more than 60,000 workers in Witwatersrand refused to continue working for the existing wages. Within a week police were deployed and incorporated brutal tactics in an effort to break the strike. Officially 9 died and more than 1,248 workers were injured, and many regarded the strike as a failure. Although the initial demands were ignored and the workers returned to the mines after only a week, the strike was viewed as a crucial moment in South Africa's development. Ultimately this initial protest later influenced political realignments, and has been associated with increased labour conscience and social change. By addressing the conditions necessary to maintain cheap migrant labour, this movement provided insight into the manner in which Apartheid serves as a vehicle for perpetuating pre-capitalist modes of production. Methods such as the 'compound system', which essentially restrained workers from having any contact with Union organizers, were direct results of the initial failed Union Strike of 1946.\n\nIn August 1946 an open air conference was held in Newtown Market Square as no hall where Africans could hold meetings was big enough to accommodate those present and the decision to strike was taken.\n\nThe police attacked the workers with batons, bayonets, and gunfire outside the mines and in the mines when forced to work.\n\nPolice brutality reached a bloody climax on a peaceful march from the East Rand to Johannesburg on Tuesday, 13 August. Police opened fire on the procession and a number of workers were killed.\n\nThis led to the Transvaal Council of Non-European Trade Unions (CONETU) calling a general strike in Johannesburg on Wednesday, 14 August. CONETU called a meeting at Newtown Market Square the next day which was banned by the Riotous Assemblies Act. This meeting was also attacked by police with guns and bayonets.\n\nDuring the week workers and leaders of the ANC, the Communist Party, the Indian and Coloured Congresses and the trade unions were arrested, tried, imprisoned, and deported.\n\nThe 1946 African miners strike signified a shift in public conscience, and was widely considered the beginning of what would later become the anti-apartheid movement. This strike, \" was led by the African Mine Workers Union, whose president, J.B. Marks, was also a leader in the South African Communist Party.\" (Workers World newspaper, Aug. 29, 1996. Monica Moorehead). Most workers averaged two shillings per shift, and were responsible for contributing a portion of their wages towards work clothes and bedding. Many were removed from their families, sometimes for years, while their children and spouses starved. The AMWU initially placed demands to create a legal minimum wage, cost-of-living allowance, and regular wage increases. The miners settled on a 10 shilling per day minimum wage, and improved working conditions as the basis of their demands. The Transvaal Chamber of Mines functioned as a closely knit cartel comprising five separate mining groups that essentially controlled the largest labour force in South Africa. Their influence over state revenue, and political seats in the government allowed them to function with relative impunity. With a general monopoly over South Africa's agricultural and industrial products, the Transvaal Chamber of Mines was in effect capable of controlling workers wages and suppressing efforts to unionize. This was largely achieved by keeping workers in policed compounds and brutally restricting their ability to communicate or be contacted by union organizers.\nIn the wake of discontent following settlements that maintained the existing labour cost, Prime Minister Smuts issued War Measure NO. 1425 this measure which, \" prohibiting gatherings of more than twenty persons on mining property without special permission,\" effectively ceased further organized trade union meetings. (African National Congress, Sept. 12,1976, Monty Naicker). Following the suppression of the 1946 strike, union groups like The Communist Party of South Africa experienced brutal treatment at the hands of the existing government. Many of the parties leaders were indicted on charges of sedition and treason. \"This was followed by a systematic series of measures to destroy the CPSA, culminating in the suppression of Communism Act in 1950.\" (Communist University, COSATU, 1946 mineworkers strike, press release, Aug. 11, 2006). However, despite continual efforts through the media to define the strike as a failure this initial protest has had a lasting impact on South African politics. The formation and emergence of the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) represents a direct lineage to these early union organizers. This organization, \" arguably the heirs to the 1946 strike are currently engaged in a series of territorial disputes with the breakaway Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU).\" (Global Research, Aug. 21, 2012. Chris Webb).\nCheap Labour has historically provided the back-bone for South Africa's thriving mining industry. Much of this work-force has routinely been composed of poor workers abducted from surrounding regions. \" Research shows that by 1929, more than 115,000 Mozambicans had been forcibly recruited to work in South African mines.\" (The Southern Times, Felix Njini, Sept. 17, 2012). The increased foreign demand for platinum has only served to perpetuate this system of abuse and oppression. While the number of workers extracted from the surrounding areas has declined, local peasants are still routinely pressured into labour once they reach the working age. While many of the injustices imposed by South Africa's mining industry persist, the 1946 miners strike remains a prevalent reminder of the plight of African workers and their families.\n\n"}
{"id": "35756565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35756565", "title": "Abba of Carthage", "text": "Abba of Carthage\n\nAbba of Carthage was a Jewish amora (scholar), who flourished at the end of the third century CE. His birthplace was Carthage, and it is incorrect to refer his surname to Cartagena in Spain or to a town of Armenia. He is frequently mentioned in the Jerusalem Talmud and in the haggadic traditions.\n"}
{"id": "33096318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33096318", "title": "Agnes of Holstein", "text": "Agnes of Holstein\n\nAgnes of Holstein (died: 1386) was a Countess of Holstein-Kiel by birth and by marriage a Duchess of Saxe-Lauenburg. She was the daughter of Count John III of Holstein-Plön (d. 1359) and Catherine (d. 1327), daughter of Duke Henry III of Silesia-Glogau.\n\nShe died in 1386 and was buried in the Cathedral in Ratzeburg.\n\nOn 22 March 1327 in Trittau, Agnes was engaged to marry Duke Eric II of Saxe-Lauenburg (d. 1368 or 1369). The wedding took place between 1342 and 1349. They had four children:\n\n"}
{"id": "45419206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45419206", "title": "Ahmad Shah Abouwi", "text": "Ahmad Shah Abouwi\n\nAhmad Shah Abouwi was an Afghanistan field hockey player, who competed at the 1956 Summer Olympic Games. He played in all three matches.\n"}
{"id": "11060656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11060656", "title": "Anti-suicide blanket", "text": "Anti-suicide blanket\n\nAn anti-suicide blanket is a tear-resistant blanket that is used to prevent a hospitalized, incarcerated or otherwise detained individual from forming a noose to commit suicide. The blanket is typically made of simple and sturdily quilted nylon or similarly reinforced material. The stiffness of the blanket makes it impossible to roll or fold without continuously applied pressure. The same material is used for the anti-suicide smock.\n\n"}
{"id": "4887323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887323", "title": "Attila Petschauer", "text": "Attila Petschauer\n\nAttila Petschauer (December 14, 1904 – January 30, 1943) was a Hungarian Olympic champion fencer of Jewish heritage.\n\nPetschauer was born in Budapest, and was Jewish. \n\nHe fenced first at a salle in Budapest opened in 1885 by Jewish maestro Károly Fodor (Mózes Freyberger) from the age of 8 to the age of 20, and then trained at Nemzeti Vivó Club (NVC) which was established by the Zionist lawyer Marcell Hajdu. He won four Hungarian National Youth Championships.\n\nHe was a member of the Hungarian fencing team in the 1928 and 1932 Olympics. Petschauer was regarded throughout the late 1920s and early 1930s as one of the world's top fencers. Between 1925 and 1931, at the saber world championships he was three times a silver medalist and three times a bronze medalist.\n\nIn Amsterdam in 1928 at the age of 23 he was part of the gold medal-winning Hungarian team in sabre, winning all 20 of his competition matches. In the individual sabre competition, Petschauer won the silver medal.\n\nIn the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, Petschauer was again part of the champion Hungarian sabre team. The Hungarians won the gold medal in team sabre, and Petschauer finished 5th in individual sabre.\n\nAccording to legend, Petschauer was arrested by the Nazis in 1943 and sent to a forced labor camp in Davidovka, Ukraine.\n\nSome claime that Petschauer was tortured and murdered under orders of a Hungarian officer, a fellow former Hungarian Olympian named Kalman Czéh, during his service in a Hungarian-Jewish Forced Labor Battalion. A fellow inmate, Olympic champion wrestler Károly Kárpáti, recalled: “The guards shouted: ‘You, Olympic fencing medal winner . . . let’s see how you can climb trees.’ It was midwinter and bitter cold, but they ordered him to undress, then climb a tree. The amused guards ordered him to crow like a rooster, and sprayed him with water. Frozen from the water, he died shortly after.”\n\nA fictionalized account of his life and death were dramatised in the 1999 film \"Sunshine\", starring Ralph Fiennes.\n\nRecent research by historians Csaba B. Stenge and Krisztián Ungváry show that according to the records of the Hungarian Royal Army, Petschauer died of typhus in a Soviet POW camp. \nHe was inducted into the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame in 1985.\n\nThe Attila Petschauer Event was begun in 1995 as a memorial to Petschauer by his descendant, Dr. Richard Markowitz. It is known across the United States as one of the top sabre events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12728992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12728992", "title": "Bird–skyscraper collisions", "text": "Bird–skyscraper collisions\n\nBird–skyscraper collisions are a problem in urban areas. Several major cities like Toronto in Canada and New York City in the United States have programs to abate this, such as Toronto's Fatal Light Awareness Program (FLAP) and New York City's Lights Out New York, a program of New York City Audubon an environmental organization. According to FLAP, between one and nine million birds die each year in the city from hitting skyscrapers due to mistaking reflective windows for open sky, or being drawn to lights at night.\n\nAccording to a 2014 article in the ornithological journal Condor, an estimated 365 million to 988 million birds die each year by colliding into buildings in the United States.\n\nGovernments of Canada and the United States have recently introduced legislation to make new and existing buildings bird friendly. Examples include Toronto's Bird-Friendly Development Guidelines that requires new buildings to be bird friendly, Chicago's Design Guide For Bird-Safe Buildings New Construction And Renovation, New York's Bird Friendly-Buildings Act that will require new and existing building be bird friendly effective Jan 1, 2012. On the Federal level the Federal Bird-Safe Buildings Act of 2011 calls for each public building constructed, acquired, or altered by the General Services Administration (GSA) to incorporate bird-safe building materials and design features. The legislation would require GSA to take similar actions on existing buildings, where practicable.\n\nRecent developments in legislation necessitate architects and property managers to take mitigating measures to combat the bird collision issue. There are a variety of different solutions including special window film, specialized glass, decals, screens and external shutters. Some of these solutions have been proven to significantly reduce bird collisions with buildings, but some are unproven and testing is required to prove the claims made for some.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2492267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492267", "title": "Brian: Portrait of a Dog", "text": "Brian: Portrait of a Dog\n\n\"Brian: Portrait of a Dog\" is the seventh episode and the season finale of the first season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\". It originally aired on Fox in the United States on May 16, 1999. The episode features anthropomorphic dog Brian after he swallows his pride, and joins a dog show, after much convincing, in order to win money for a new air conditioner. But after an argument over a trick gone bad, with his owner, Peter Griffin, Brian realizes he is a second-class citizen and runs away from home, landing him in the pound on death row. Desperate to save their dog, the Griffin family attempts to release Brian, and prevent him from being euthanized.\n\nThe episode was written by Gary Janetti and directed by Michael Dante DiMartino. It received praise from television critic Ahsan Haque for its storyline and use of cultural references. The episode featured guest performances by Butch Hartman, Rachael MacFarlane, Dick Van Patten, Mary Scheer, Joey Slotnick and Wally Wingert, along with several recurring voice actors for the series.\n\nQuahog is in the grip of an unusual heat wave and, not having air conditioning, the Griffins are suffering. Peter learns of an upcoming dog show offering a top prize of $500, which he sees as the perfect way to be able to buy an air conditioner. He persuades a reluctant Brian to participate. Brian performs his tricks at the dog show. Peter puts a bone biscuit on Brian's nose; finding this demeaning and becoming angry, Brian refuses to \"perpetuate the stereotype of the 'good dog'\", as well as Peter saying he is embarrassed that Brian would not comply. Brian subsequently exits in a huff.\n\nOn the way home, Peter and Brian argue until Brian gets out of the car. A police officer gives Brian a ticket, for which Peter has to pay $10, for violating the local leash law, which only widens the rift between Peter and Brian. Another argument ensues and Peter mentions that he found Brian on the road as a stray dog. Angry that Peter brought that up and becoming more angry when Peter then demands that Brian stop being a bad dog, Brian leaves the house, whereupon he is treated cruelly by the community, and is (ultimately) forced to sleep at the bus shelter. Peter buys a new cat which turns out to be troublesome and abusive; the family gets rid of it and searches for Brian. By the time Peter decides to apologize to Brian, Brian has been kicked out of a restaurant and a public store and chased by the police when he was found drinking from a water fountain. Brian becomes homeless, having actually attacked a man on the street for treating him as a drunken hobo and for not believing that he was not a good dog but a crazy animal. He is subsequently taken away by the police.\n\nA social worker announces to Brian and the rest of his family that Brian is sentenced to be put down by a lethal injection, which shocks everyone. While Peter works on Brian's appeal, Brian decides to study the Law as much as he can, and goes to court to defend himself, and finally gets the chance to plead his case before the Quahog City Council. During his parole hearing, he references the court case \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", but unfortunately for him, the council believes that it's stupid to listen to a dog. Just when Brian is about to be dismissed, Peter steps in and delivers a last-ditch emotional appeal on his behalf. The city council members remain unmoved until Peter bribes them with $20 each, and Brian is immediately freed. The charges against him are finally dropped and the town shows him new respect, allowing him to finally drink out of a water fountain, showing his status to be the same as that of the other citizens of the community. The family returns home and Stewie, in an unusual (at the time) display of respect towards Brian, bows ever so slightly towards him. Brian and Peter are then left alone. Brian licks Peter's face in an endearing dog gesture, and threatens to kill him if he \"ever\" tells anyone about it.\n\n\"Brian: Portrait of a Dog\" was written by Gary Janetti, his first time writing for the series, and directed by former \"King of the Hill\" director Michael Dante DiMartino, who was a newcomer to the show at the time, having directed \"I Never Met the Dead Man\". DiMartino would later go on to co-create and produce \"\" with Bryan Konietzko at Nickelodeon Animation Studios. Roy Allen Smith and Peter Shin (who have been supervising other episodes of the show), acted as supervising directors. Mike Henry, Neil Goldman, Andrew Gormley and Garrett Donovan worked in the episode as story editors and staff writers. Series creator Seth MacFarlane, David Zuckerman, Lolee Aries, David Pritchard and Mike Wolf worked as executive producer, while Craig Hoffman, Danny Smith and Gary Janetti worked as supervising producers. In addition to the regular cast, the episode featured the voices of actress and comedian Mary Scheer, actors Dick Van Patten, Joey Slotnick, and actress and sister of show creator Seth MacFarlane, Rachael MacFarlane. Recurring guest voice actors included actress Lori Alan, writer and animator Butch Hartman, and voice actor Wally Wingert.\n\nThe episode makes references to the U.S. Civil Rights Movement. While arguing his case before the city council, Brian tries to reference the landmark U.S. Supreme Court case \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", before being cut off. Another reference comes after Brian is freed, he drinks from a drinking fountain in a defiant manner, a reference to the 1974 television movie, \"The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman\". Other media references include the Griffins watching the TV show \"Eight is Enough\" and Peter writing a letter to Angus MacGyver, from the show \"MacGyver\", asking him to rescue Brian from jail. When Brian puts eye drops into his eyes before the dog show, he says \"Showtime\" with jazz hands. This ritual and phrase are a reference to Joe Gideon in \"All That Jazz\"\n\nAhsan Haque of IGN rated the episode a 9.6/10, praising the random jokes and calling it \"yet another finely crafted early episode that tells a great cohesive story, has some great random jokes, and throws in a bucket of social satire for good measure. This was also the final episode of the extremely short but groundbreaking first season, and definitely ranks amongst the best in the series.\"\n\n\"Portrait of a Dog\", along with the twenty-seven other episodes from \"Family Guy\"s first and second season, were released on a 4-disc DVD set in the U.S. on April 15, 2003. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Seth MacFarlane and various crew and cast members for several episodes. It also features French and Spanish versions of the episodes, an alteration of an episode, and deleted scenes of some episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5530273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530273", "title": "Charles Bravo", "text": "Charles Bravo\n\nCharles Delauney Bravo (30 November 1845 – 21 April 1876) was a British lawyer who was fatally poisoned with antimony in 1876. The case is still sensational, notorious and unresolved. The case is also known as The Charles Bravo Murder and the Murder at the Priory.\n\nIt was an unsolved crime committed within an elite Victorian household at The Priory, a landmark house in Balham, London. Leading doctors attended the bedside, including the royal physician Sir William Gull, and all agreed that it was a case of antimony poisoning. The victim took three days to die, but gave no indication of the source of the poison during that time. No one was ever charged with the crime.\n\nCharles Bravo was born Charles Delauney Turner in St Pancras, London, and baptised in Saint Helier, Jersey, in 1852. He was the son of Augustus Charles Turner and Mary Turner, but later took the surname Bravo from his stepfather, Joseph Bravo. He attended Trinity College, Oxford and became a barrister. He by the time of his marriage to Florence Ricardo (née Campbell) he had fathered an illegitimate child.\n\nHis wealthy wife Florence (1845-1878) had previously been married, in 1864, to Alexander Louis Ricardo, son of John Ricardo MP, but had been separated from him because of his affairs and violent alcoholism. She herself had had an extramarital affair with the much older Dr James Manby Gully, a fashionable society doctor who was also married at the time, and she had fallen out of favour with her family and society. Ricardo died in 1871 and Florence married Charles, a respected up-and-coming barrister, on 7 December 1875, terminating her affair with Gully.\n\nPolice inquiries in the case revealed that Charles's behaviour towards Florence was controlling, mean, violent and bullying. Florence was wealthier than Charles, and had opted from the start to hold onto her own money, an option only recently provided by the Married Women's Property Act 1870. This led to tensions within the marriage.\n\nThe poisoning of Charles Bravo occurred four months into the marriage. Bravo's death was drawn out, lasting from two to three days, and painful. It was particularly notable that he did not offer any explanation of his condition to the attending doctors.\n\nOne hypothesis is that Charles Bravo was slowly poisoning his wife with small cumulative doses of antimony in the form of tartar emetic, which explains the chronic illness that she suffered from since shortly after their marriage. While treating himself with laudanum for toothache before going to bed he mistakenly swallowed some; then took the tartar emetic, mistakenly believing it was a true emetic that would induce vomiting. Their housekeeper Mrs. Cox reportedly told police that when they were alone together, Charles had admitted using the tartar emetic on himself; but she later changed her statement, perhaps to deflect suspicion from herself to Florence.\n\nOther investigators have offered different suggestions as to what happened to cause the poisoning, including suicide, murder by the housekeeper Mrs. Cox (whom Bravo had threatened to sack), murder by Florence, and murder by a disaffected groomsman whom Bravo had discharged from employment at The Priory.\n\nTwo inquests were held, and the details were considered to be so scandalous that women and children were banned from the room while Florence Bravo testified. The searching cross-examination launched the career of the lawyer George Henry Lewis. The first inquest returned an open verdict. The second inquest returned a verdict of willful murder, but no one was ever arrested or charged.\n\nThe household broke up after the inquest ended and the twice-widowed Florence moved away to Southsea, Hampshire. She died at 33 of alcohol poisoning two years later on Tuesday 24 (possibly 17) September 1878.\n\nThe novel \"So Evil My Love\" by Joseph Shearing (pseudonym of Marjorie Bowen) has elements of the Bravo poisoning in its plot. It was later made into a film.\n\nThe novel \"Below Suspicion\" by John Dickson Carr also has elements of the Bravo case in the first murder.\n\nAgatha Christie's \"Ordeal by Innocence\" refers to the Bravo case as a case unsolved, the permanent shade of suspicion thus destroying the lives of the innocent (Florence Bravo, Dr. Gully and Mrs. Cox, or at least two of them).\n\nThe graphic novel \"From Hell\" by Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell briefly features both Charles and Florence Bravo in Chapter 2. One of the protagonists is the royal physician Sir William Gull, who is shown attending Charles Bravo on his deathbed.\n\nShirley Jackson's novel \"We Have Always Lived in the Castle\" was inspired by the Charles Bravo mystery.\n\nThe case features in the first episode of Edward Woodward's TV series \"In Suspicious Circumstances\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "800813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=800813", "title": "Charlie Howard (murder victim)", "text": "Charlie Howard (murder victim)\n\nCharles O. Howard (January 31, 1961 – July 7, 1984) was an American murder victim in Bangor, Maine in 1984. As Howard and a male companion, Roy Ogden, were walking down the street, three teenagers, Shawn I. Mabry, age 16, James Francis Baines, age 15, and Daniel Ness, age 17, harassed and assaulted Howard for being gay. The youths chased the pair, yelling homophobic epithets, until they caught Howard and threw him over the State Street Bridge into the Kenduskeag Stream, despite his pleas that he could not swim. He drowned, but his friend escaped and pulled a fire alarm. Charlie Howard's body was found by rescue workers several hours later.\n\nThis event galvanized the Bangor community in ways similar to the killing of Matthew Shepard, although the case never attained the same level of national notoriety. As an adult Jim Baines later spoke to various groups in Maine about his involvement in the murder and the damage that intolerance can do to people and their community. His story, \"Penitence: A True Story\" by Edward Armstrong, was published, although he received no royalties from the book. The Maine Lesbian/Gay Political Alliance, which later became EqualityMaine, was formed in part as a reaction to Howard's death.\n\nThe Bangor City Council and members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community have erected a monument along the Kenduskeag Stream honoring the memory of Charlie Howard as the victim of a hate crime. On July 7, 2004, a twentieth anniversary walk was held in memory of Howard. The Maine Speakout Project maintains the Charlie Howard Memorial Library in Portland, Maine. The library is open to the public.\n\nCharlie Howard was from Portsmouth, New Hampshire. A young, fair-haired man, Charlie was small boned and suffered from asthma. He was often made fun of as a small child, and was bullied in high school due to his sexual orientation. He did not attend his graduation to spare his family from the taunts he often received. With his poor grades, he knew college was not for him.\n\nCharlie left Portsmouth, New Hampshire and eventually landed in Ellsworth, Maine. When the relationship that he was in ended in January 1984, Charlie left Ellsworth for Bangor, Maine.\n\nIn Bangor, Paul Noddin and Scott Hamilton befriended Charlie. Charlie was homeless with no prospects and Scott and Paul welcomed Charlie into their home. After a month, Charlie's opportunities were nil and Scott and Paul convinced him to return home to Portsmouth to live with his mother and stepfather.\n\nCharlie was not home a week when he knew he could not stay. He had a brief relationship that ended quickly. When he called his two friends in Bangor, they realized Charlie was hurting and invited him to come back to Bangor.\n\nCharlie returned - in high spirits and determined. He joined the local supportive Unitarian Church on Union Street as well as the Bangor support group Interweave. Here he made new friends and was accepted for who he was. In thanks for their support, Charlie prepared an Easter dinner for Paul and Scott and decorated their home. Eventually Charlie took an apartment on First Street, near his church, and adopted a kitten.\n\nCharlie lived at a time when most homosexuals were still closeted, but Charlie was \"out\" and even flamboyant. If he felt like \"sissying up\" e.g. wearing make up, jewelry and feminine accessories, he did so. He was known for singing the song \"I Am What I Am\" from the musical \"La Cage aux Folles\".\n\nIn 1984, many were not tolerant of homosexuals and victims of gay bashing often did not report incidents. Charlie was often tormented by local high school boys and was asked to leave a local night club when he danced with a man. Charlie was accosted by a woman in a local market one day, who shouted epithets at him such as \"\"You pervert\" and \"You queer\"!\" Frightened, Charlie quickly left, but as he was leaving, he stopped, turned around, and blew a kiss. After this, Charlie was more wary of strangers. Leaving his apartment one day, he found his pet kitten dead on the doorstep. It had been strangled.\n\nOn Saturday, July 7, 1984, Charlie attended a potluck supper at Interweave. Leaving the party about 10 pm with his friend Roy Ogden, Charlie decided to walk to the post office to retrieve his mail. As Charlie and Roy walked up State Street and began to cross the Kenduskeag River Bridge, a car full of high school teenagers began to slow down. \nIn the car were Shawn Mabry, Jim Baines, Daniel Ness and two girls. They had been at a party and had left to purchase alcohol with a fake ID that one of the girls had in her possession. Seeing Charlie, the boys got out of the car and decided to give chase. The two girls remained in the car.\n\nCharlie began to run when he recognized the vehicle from an earlier incident. Shouting epithets, the boys gave chase. Charlie fell and because of his asthma could not catch his breath. Roy ran further down State Street and stopped and observed.\n\nPouncing on Charlie, the boys began beating and kicking him. Jim Baines shouted to throw Charlie over the bridge and grabbed him by the legs. Jim Baines and Daniel Ness grabbed Charlie and they began lifting him. Pleading for his life, Charlie grabbed the rail and begged them not to throw him in the river as he could not swim. Prying his hand loose, they began to pitch him over the rail, with Shawn Mabry giving the final push. The boys then returned to the car, which the girls were trying to start. Spying Roy Ogden, they threatened him not to tell anyone. Roy Ogden then ran for help and pulled the first fire alarm he came to on State Street.\n\nSoon, the sirens could be heard. An immediate search for Charlie began among the concrete walls that retain the Kenduskeag. At 1 am Charlie was found. An autopsy would show he had suffered from a severe asthma attack and drowned.\n\nReturning to the party, the boys bragged about their encounter. The next day one of the boys turned himself in after he learned that Charlie had died. The other two boys decided to leave town on a freight train and then thought better of it. Returning home, they were arrested.\n\nThe boys were sent to the Hancock County Jail and later released into their parents' custody. The boys were tried as juveniles and sentenced to the Maine Youth Center not to exceed their 21st birthdays. The boys were sentenced on 1 October 1984. According to the \"Bangor Daily News\", \"Baines was released after serving two years and Mabry was released after 22 months.\"\n\n25 years later, \"The Bangor Daily News\" tried to locate Shawn Mabry, Jim Baines and Daniel Ness, now middle-aged men, for their views on the murder. They were unable to locate Mabry and Ness at that time, but found Jim Baines, who was living and working in Bangor. Following his release from the detention center, he spoke regularly about tolerance to local students and even addressed the Maine State Legislature in \"support of a bill to ban discrimination based on sexual orientation\". In addition, he co-authored the book \"Penitence\" with Ed Armstrong in 1994. Baines did not receive any of the profits of the book. That same year, Shawn Mabry expressed his regrets about his participation. He stated that he thinks about Charlie Howard every day.\n\nToday, a short distance from Howard's murder site, a memorial has been erected; engraved on the stone are the words: “May we, the citizens of Bangor, continue to change the world around us until hatred becomes peacemaking and ignorance becomes understanding.”\n\nJuly 7, Howard's death date, is now Diversity Day in Bangor.\n\nIn May 2011, vandals spray-painted graffiti and an anti-gay slur on Charlie Howard's memorial. Family and friends cleaned it up and rededicated it.\n\nThis incident inspired a similar scene near the beginning of Stephen King's novel \"It\", in which three homophobic teenagers throw an openly gay man, Adrian Mellon, over a bridge and into the Kenduskeag, where he was set upon and murdered by the monster Pennywise.\n\nMark Doty wrote a poem about the tragedy called \"Charlie Howard's Descent\".\n\nThe murder is also the inspiration for a novel by Bette Greene titled \"The Drowning of Stephan Jones\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25649314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25649314", "title": "Clark Todd", "text": "Clark Todd\n\nClark Todd (10 October 1944 - 5 September 1983) was the London bureau chief for the CTV Television Network. He was wounded in fighting in the Aley Mountains while covering the civil war in Lebanon in 1983 with a television crew. The crew found shelter for him in the village of Kfar Matta and went for help, but he died from his wounds before they were able to return. Todd, a graduate of University of New Brunswick, covered violence in Biafra, Poland, Belfast and many other conflict areas, while also winning international recognition in much broader areas of journalism. He received the Amos Tuck Award for Best Economic Reporting (1978), on the topic of the Fall of the Dollar; the Overseas Press Club of America Award for Best Documentary (1977), on Eurocommunism; the Bagriel Award (1979), for a report on The Pope in Poland; the Peabody Award (1979); and posthumously, the Michener Award to an individual whose efforts exemplify the best in public service journalism (1983).\n\nTodd was born in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada, and raised by his mother in difficult circumstances, but graduated from the University of New Brunswick. His broadcasting career included CKGM in Montreal and CJON in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador. In 1972, he married a British woman, Anne Carmichael (his second wife), and they settled in Hatfield, Hertfordshire. Prior to his CTV attachment, he worked mostly as a freelance journalist based in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2021319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021319", "title": "Copperhead (DC Comics)", "text": "Copperhead (DC Comics)\n\nCopperhead is the name of different characters in DC Comics.\n\nThe first Copperhead first appeared in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #78, June (1968) and was created by Bob Haney and Bob Brown.\n\nThe criminal known as Copperhead first appeared in Gotham City in a copperhead costume. He committed numerous thefts before finally being apprehended by Batman and Batgirl. Copperhead then turned to more deadly pursuits as a super-assassin, constricting victims to a suffocating death with his costume's tail. During this time, he would become obsessive about his target and think of nothing until the target was dead, which proved to be a weakness at times as he would ignore anything he did not consider immediately relevant. Copperhead used the travel opportunities his freelance career afforded him to pursue his hobby of collecting transistor radios.\n\nAlthough a master contortionist, Copperhead was largely powerless without his snake-skin costume.\n\nDuring the \"Underworld Unleashed\" storyline, Copperhead sold his soul to the demon Neron in exchange for power, being transformed into a deadly human-snake hybrid.\n\nHe was later killed by Manhunter, Kate Spencer.\n\nDuring the \"Blackest Night\" storyline, Copperhead has been identified as one of the deceased entombed below the Hall of Justice. He is listed as \"John Doe\", as his real name had never been discovered. He was reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Copperhead is destroyed by the combined efforts of seven Lanterns during the Black Lantern Corps' attack on Coast City.\n\n\"Teen Titans\" #56 featured a team of villains called the \"Terror Titans\", legacy villains whose mantles are inherited from older villains. One of the members shown is identified as Copperhead and appears visually as the character prior to the deal with Neron. The story did not reveal any information about the character or provide context with regard to previous stories.\n\nIn the subsequent \"Terror Titans\" miniseries, it is revealed that the second Copperhead's true identity is Nathan Prince, and he is the only member of the Terror Titans who does not have a family connection to his predecessor. As a child, Nathan drowned his baby sibling out of jealousy, and even attempted to kill his parents. Unable to go through with it, he instead ran away to live on the streets, where he would solicit himself, having sex with older men, after which he would kill and rob them. It is still unknown how Prince came to work for Clock King. During The Dark Side Club's metahuman battles, the heroine TNTeena is badly injured, and Clock King tasks Copperhead with watching over her as she recuperates. Copperhead complies, and over time, falls in love with her. However, Nathan is later forced by Clock King to kill her. Nate and the rest of the Terror Titans are then sent to assist the Martyr Militia, a group of brainwashed metahumans, in destroying Los Angeles, but the tables are turned by Ravager and Miss Martian, who uses her telepathy to undo the brainwashing. The Terror Titans flee to their base, only for Clock King to kill Disruptor, and leave them to be apprehended by the metahumans. Two weeks later, Nate breaks his fellow Terror Titans out of custody, and the group swear revenge on Clock King.\n\nCopperhead appears in the New 52 (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe). He is a criminal named Sameer Park, and is a mutated anthropomorphic snake man as opposed to being a villain wearing a snake costume. Copperhead as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains. He is killed by Deathstroke in \"Forever Evil\" #5. \n\nAnother Copperhead resembling Sameer Park appears in DC Rebirth, later as one of the many villains Batman and Catwoman take down when he takes her on a typical night of his job. He is later shown as one of the many villains in Batman's Rogues Gallery to be beaten down by Bane in his attempt to reach Batman in Arkham . He later appears in the Batgirl and the Birds of Prey comics.\n\nA female Copperhead using the alias Jane Doe makes her debut sometime after the death of her predecessor. This version of the character resembles its appearance in \"\", DC Chief Creative Officer Geoff Johns has said that this new incarnation and daughter of Copperhead would appear as a villain in the New 52 \"after the game's release. Copperhead is described as a deadly hitwoman and one of the two most toxic individuals on the planet (the other being Cheshire)..\n\nReal name unknown, Copperhead is a crime boss in Central City, as well as a former mercenary. She is an antagonist of both Batman and the Flash.\nTwo-Face placed a large bounty on Batman's head that many super-villains and mercenaries intended to collect, including Copperhead. Alongside several other villains Copperhead tracked down the Bat to a active train. Climbing on board the train Copperhead attempted to kill Batman but he was able to escape by jumping into a flowing stream.\nAfter a brief stint of assassinations and other mercenary jobs, Copperhead was called up to lead her families' crime business in Central City. After a mysterious rival boss started muscling in on her territory she decided to hire several mercenaries to enforce her rule, two of these mercenaries were Shrapnel and Black Spider. However Black Spider was arrested by the Flash for robbing a diamond exchange, and Shrapnel was arrested after murdering the Road Reapers. Soon after this another pair of mercenaries were apprehended by the Flash- Trigger Twins, this prompted Copperhead to open negotiations with the mysterious crimelord whom she discovered was Captain Cold of the Rogues, in order to find away to defeat the Flash. Copperhead followed Cold's plan to eliminate the Flash, but Cold turned on her when he planted a cold bomb in a weapons delivery. The Flash was able to save her after he apprehended Cold, but without any evidence of her involvement she was aloud to walk free. \n\nThis version of the character is exclusive to the continuity of the DC Rebirth and is an adaptation of Copperhead. The original character was created by WB Games Montréal and first appeared in Batman: Arkham Origins.\n\nthe Figthing Copperhead is Sameer Park's niece, She appears later as one of the many villains Batman and Catwoman take down when he takes her on a typical night of his job. This version appears again to be inhuman, with copper skin but with some un-snake-like qualities, such as teeth. She is later shown as one of the many villains in Batman's Rogues Gallery to be beaten down by Bane in his attempt to reach Batman in Arkham . He later appears in the Batgirl and the Birds of Prey comics.\n\nCopperhead's contortionist skills allow him to fit himself into incredibly small spaces (such as chimneys). He originally wore a snake-themed costume. The suit was a weave of metallic and elastic fibers and covered vulnerable points (such as the chest) with Kevlar, making it bulletproof and impenetrable to almost any cutting edged weapon. The costume had been treated with a highly slippery water- and heat-proof silicon gel, allowing Copperhead to slide along any surface and slip out of tight spots. The tail could be stretched several feet and was strong enough to snap bone and shatter stone. The suit's helmet contained two seven-inch-long fangs which were capable of piercing human skin, and were coated in a potent neurotoxin derived from copperhead snakes. The toxin could paralyze a person almost instantly, and death would follow within 30 minutes. Later, Copperhead sold his soul to the demon Neron and was transformed into a human-snake hybrid. His reflexes and agility were greatly increased, and he gained venomous fangs, a forked tongue, claws, and a prehensile tail.\n\nIn \"Terror Titans\", Clock King mentions that the second Copperhead does not have any superpowers, meaning he utilizes a snake-themed suit, like the original once did.\n\nThe Copperhead from \"The New 52\" has snake-like abilities.\n\nThe female Copperhead does not appear to have any superpowers and instead uses different poison equipment such as darts.\n\nA different version of Copperhead appears in Sensation Comics #15\n(March, 1943). This version is a enemy of Little Boy Blue.\n\nA kid version of Copperhead named Johnny appears in Tiny Titans comics.\n\nA second Copperhead Appears in #10 (March, 2013). Copperhead was a criminal who was recruited to Amanda Waller's Suicide Squad.\n\nCopperhead is a Suicide Squad criminal who obey Wonder Woman and the regime. She first appear in the Injustice vs Masters of the universe crossover.\n\nThe original Copperhead appears in Batman '66 Meets Wonder Woman '77 #5 (July, 2017).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2294357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294357", "title": "Cord blood", "text": "Cord blood\n\nCord blood (umbilical cord blood) is blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth. Cord blood is collected because it contains stem cells, which can be used to treat hematopoietic and genetic disorders.\n\nCord blood is used the same way that hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is used to reconstitute bone marrow following radiation treatment for various blood cancers, and for various forms of anemia. Its efficacy is similar as well.\n\nAdverse effects are similar to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, namely graft-versus-host disease if the cord blood is from a genetically different person, and the risk of severe infection while the immune system is reconstituted. To assure that the smallest amount of complications occur during transplantation, levels of engraftment must be present; specifically both neutrophils and platelets must be being produced . This process of neutrophil and platelet production after the transplant, however, takes much longer than that of stem cells . In many cases, the engraftment time depends on the cell dose, or the amount of stem cells obtained in the sample of blood . In Dr. Moise’s article about umbilical cord blood (as cited in ), it was found that there is approximately 10% less stem cells in cord blood than there is in bone marrow. Therefore a sufficient amount of cord blood must be obtained in order to collect an adequate cell dose, however this amount varies from infant to infant and is irreplaceable. Given that this idea is quite new, there is still a lot of research that needs to be completed. For example, it is still unknown how long cord blood can safely be frozen without losing its beneficial effects .\nThere is a lower incidence with cord blood compared with traditional HSCT, despite less stringent HLA match requirements. \n\nUmbilical cord blood is the blood left over in the placenta and in the umbilical cord after the birth of the baby. The cord blood is composed of all the elements found in whole blood. It contains red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, platelets and is also rich in hematopoietic stem cells. There are several methods for collecting cord blood. The method most commonly used in clinical practice is the \"closed technique\", which is similar to standard blood collection techniques. With this method, the technician cannulates the vein of the severed umbilical cord using a needle that is connected to a blood bag, and cord blood flows through the needle into the bag. On average, the closed technique enables collection of about 75 ml of cord blood.\n\nCollected cord blood is cryopreserved and then stored in a cord blood bank for future transplantation. Cord blood collection is typically depleted of red blood cells before cryopreservation to ensure high rates of stem cell recovery.\n\nThe first successful cord blood transplant (CBT) was done in 1988 in a child with Fanconi anemia. Early efforts to use CBT in adults led to mortality rates of about 50%, due somewhat to the procedure being done in very sick people, but perhaps also due to slow development of immune cells from the transplant. By 2013, 30,000 CBT procedures had been performed and banks held about 600,000 units of cord blood.\n\nThe AABB has generated accreditation standards for cord blood banking facilities.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration regulates any facility that stores cord blood; cord blood intended for use in the person from whom it came is not regulated, but cord blood for use in others is regulated as a drug and as a biologic. Several states also have regulations for cord blood banks.\n\nIn Europe, Canada, and Australia use of cord blood is regulated as well. In the United Kingdom the NHS Cord Blood Bank was set up in 1996 to collect, process, store and supply cord blood; it is a public cord blood bank and part of the NHS.\n\nA cord blood bank may be private (i.e. the blood is stored for and the costs paid by donor families) or public (i.e. stored and made available for use by unrelated donors). While public cord blood banking is widely supported, private cord banking is controversial in both the medical and parenting community. Although umbilical cord blood is well-recognized to be useful for treating hematopoietic and genetic disorders, some controversy surrounds the collection and storage of umbilical cord blood by private banks for the baby's use. Only a small percentage of babies (estimated at between 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 200,000) ever use the umbilical cord blood that is stored. The American Academy of Pediatrics 2007 Policy Statement on Cord Blood Banking stated: \"Physicians should be aware of the unsubstantiated claims of private cord blood banks made to future parents that promise to insure infants or family members against serious illnesses in the future by use of the stem cells contained in cord blood.\" and \"private storage of cord blood as 'biological insurance' is unwise\" unless there is a family member with a current or potential need to undergo a stem cell transplantation. The American Academy of Pediatrics also notes that the odds of using a person's own cord blood is 1 in 200,000 while the Institute of Medicine says that only 14 such procedures have ever been performed.\n\nPrivate storage of one's own cord blood is unlawful in Italy and France, and it is also discouraged in some other European countries. The American Medical Association states \"Private banking should be considered in the unusual circumstance when there exists a family predisposition to a condition in which umbilical cord stem cells are therapeutically indicated. However, because of its cost, limited likelihood of use, and inaccessibility to others, private banking should not be recommended to low-risk families.\" The American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also encourage public cord banking and discourage private cord blood banking. Nearly all cord blood transplantations come from public banks, rather than private banks, partly because most treatable conditions can't use a person's own cord blood. The World Marrow Donor Association and European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies states \"The possibility of using one’s own cord blood stem cells for regenerative medicine is currently purely hypothetical...It is therefore highly hypothetical that cord blood cells kept for autologous use will be of any value in the future\" and \"the legitimacy of commercial cord blood banks for autologous use should be questioned as they sell a service which has presently no real use regarding therapeutic options.\"\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics supports efforts to provide information about the potential benefits and limitations of cord blood banking and transplantation so that parents can make an informed decision. In addition, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends that if a patient requests information on umbilical cord blood banking, balanced information should be given. Cord blood education is also supported by legislators at the federal and state levels. In 2005, the National Academy of Sciences published an Institute of Medicine (IoM) report titled \"Establishing a National Cord Blood Stem Cell Bank Program\".\n\nIn March 2004, the European Union Group on Ethics (EGE) has issued Opinion No.19 titled \"Ethical Aspects of Umbilical Cord Blood Banking\". The EGE concluded that \"[t]he legitimacy of commercial cord blood banks for autologous use should be questioned as they sell a service, which has presently, no real use regarding therapeutic options. Thus they promise more than they can deliver. The activities of such banks raise serious ethical criticisms.\"\n\nThough uses of cord blood beyond blood and immunological disorders is speculative, some research has been done in other areas. Any such potential beyond blood and immunological uses is limited by the fact that cord cells are hematopoietic stem cells (which can differentiate only into blood cells), and not pluripotent stem cells (such as embryonic stem cells, which can differentiate into any type of tissue). Cord blood has been studied as a treatment for diabetes. However, apart from blood disorders, the use of cord blood for other diseases is not in routine clinical use and remains a major challenge for the stem cell community.\n\nAlong with cord blood, Wharton's jelly and the cord lining have been explored as sources for mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), and as of 2015 had been studied in vitro, in animal models, and in early stage clinical trials for cardiovascular diseases, as well as neurological deficits, liver diseases, immune system diseases, diabetes, lung injury, kidney injury, and leukemia.\n\nCord blood is being used to get stem cells with which to test in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus.\n\nThe stem cells from umbilical cord blood are also being used in the treatment of a number of blood diseases including blood cancers.\n\nCord blood is also being studied as a substitute for normal blood transfusions in the developing world. More research is necessary prior to the generalized utilization of cord blood transfusion.\n"}
{"id": "58808070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58808070", "title": "Dag Aabye", "text": "Dag Aabye\n\nDag Aabye (born 1941) is an endurance runner, who lives in the bush of British Columbia in Canada. Each August he competes, and often finishes, the 125-kilometer Canadian Death Race. The race is extremely grueling, with over 17,000 feet of climbing. Aabye is considered the \"Father of Freestyle Skiing\", and filmmakers Justin Pelletier and Adam Maruniak recently released a documentary on him entitled \"Never Die Easy: The Dag Aabye Story\".\n"}
{"id": "241294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241294", "title": "Frilled shark", "text": "Frilled shark\n\nThe frilled shark (\"Chlamydoselachus anguineus\") is one of two extant species of shark in the family Chlamydoselachidae, with a wide but patchy distribution in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. This species is found over the outer continental shelf and upper continental slope, generally near the bottom, though there is evidence of substantial upward movements. It has been caught as deep as , although it is uncommon below . In Suruga Bay, Japan, it is most common at depths of . Exhibiting several primitive features, the frilled shark has often been termed a living fossil. It reaches a length of and has a dark brown, eel-like body with the dorsal, pelvic, and anal fins placed far back. Its common name comes from the frilly or fringed appearance of its six pairs of gill slits, with the first pair meeting across the throat.\n\nSeldom observed, the frilled shark may capture prey by bending its body and lunging forward like a snake. The long, extremely flexible jaws enable it to swallow prey whole, while its many rows of small, needle-like teeth make it difficult for the prey to escape. It feeds mainly on cephalopods, as well as bony fishes and other sharks. This species is aplacental viviparous: the embryos emerge from their egg capsules inside the mother's uterus, where they survive primarily on yolk. The gestation period may be as long as three and a half years, the longest of any vertebrate. Litter sizes vary from two to fifteen, and there is no distinct breeding season. Frilled sharks are occasional bycatch in commercial fisheries, but have little economic value.\n\nThe frilled shark was first scientifically recognized by German ichthyologist Ludwig Döderlein, who visited Japan between 1879 and 1881 and brought two specimens to Vienna. However, his manuscript describing the species was lost, so the first description of the frilled shark was authored by American zoologist Samuel Garman, working from a -long female caught from Sagami Bay in Japan. His account, \"An Extraordinary Shark\", was published in an 1884 volume of \"Proceedings of the Essex Institute\". Garman placed the new species in its own genus and family, and gave it the name \"Chlamydoselachus anguineus\" from the Greek \"chlamy\" (frill) and \"selachus\" (shark), and the Latin \"anguineus\" for \"eel-like\". Other common names for this species include frill shark, lizard shark, scaffold shark, and silk shark.\n\nSeveral early authors believed the frilled shark to be a living representative of otherwise long-extinct groups of elasmobranchs (sharks, rays, and their ancestors), based on its multiple-pointed teeth, the articulation of its upper jaw directly to the cranium behind the eyes (called \"amphistyly\"), and its \"notochord-like\" spinal column with indistinct vertebrae. Garman proposed that it was allied with the cladodonts, a now-obsolete taxonomic grouping containing forms that thrived during the Palaeozoic era, such as \"Cladoselache\" from the Devonian period (416–359 Mya). His contemporaries Theodore Gill and Edward Drinker Cope suggested it was instead related to the hybodonts, which were the dominant sharks during the Mesozoic era. Cope went as far as to assign this species to the fossil genus \"Didymodus\".\n\nMore recent investigations have found the similarities between the frilled shark and extinct groups may have been overstated or misinterpreted, and this shark exhibits a number of skeletal and muscular traits that firmly place it with the neoselachians (modern sharks and rays), and more specifically with the cow sharks in the order Hexanchiformes (though systematist Shigeru Shirai has proposed that it be placed in its own order, Chlamydoselachiformes). Nevertheless, the frilled shark belongs to one of the oldest still-extant shark lineages, dating back to at least the Late Cretaceous (about 95 Mya) and possibly to the Late Jurassic (150 Mya). Because of their ancient ancestry and primitive characteristics, the frilled shark and other members of this lineage have been described as a living fossil. However, the frilled shark itself is a relatively recent species, with the earliest known fossil teeth belonging to this species dating to the early Pleistocene epoch.\n\nRather uncommon, the frilled shark has been recorded from a number of widely scattered locations in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. In the eastern Atlantic, it occurs off northern Norway, northern Scotland, and western Ireland, from France to Morocco including Madeira, and off Mauritania. In the central Atlantic, it has been caught at several locations along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, from north of the Azores to the Rio Grande Rise off southern Brazil, as well as over the Vavilov Ridge off West Africa. In the western Atlantic, it has been reported from waters off New England, Georgia, and Suriname. In the western Pacific, it is known from southeastern Honshu, Japan, to Taiwan, off New South Wales and Tasmania in Australia, and around New Zealand. In the central and eastern Pacific, it has been found off Hawaii and California in the US, and northern Chile. The frilled sharks off southern Africa were described as a different species, \"C. africana\", in 2009.\n\nThe frilled shark inhabits the outer continental shelf and upper to middle continental slope, seeming to favor upwellings and other biologically productive areas. Though it has been caught from a depth of , it usually does not occur deeper than . In Suruga Bay, it is most common at a depth of , except from August to November when the temperature at the water layer exceeds and the sharks shift into deeper water. On rare occasions, this species has been seen at the surface. The frilled shark is usually found close to the bottom, with one individual observed swimming over an area of small sand dunes. However, its diet suggests that it does make substantial forays upward into open water. This species may make vertical migrations, approaching the surface at night to feed. There is spatial segregation by size and reproductive condition.\n\nWith its elongated, eel-like body and strange appearance, the frilled shark has long been likened to the mythical sea serpent. The head is broad and flattened with a short, rounded snout. The nostrils are vertical slits, separated into incurrent and excurrent openings by a leading flap of skin. The moderately large eyes are horizontally oval and lack nictitating membranes (protective third eyelids). The very long jaws are positioned terminally (at the end of the snout), as opposed to the underslung jaws of most sharks. The corners of the mouth are devoid of furrows or folds. The tooth rows are rather widely spaced, numbering 19–28 in the upper jaw and 21–29 in the lower jaw. The teeth number around 300 in all; each tooth is small, with three slender, needle-like cusps alternating with two cusplets. There are six pairs of long gill slits with a frilly appearance created by the extended tips of the gill filaments, giving this shark its name. The first pair of gill slits meet across the throat, forming a collar.\n\nThe pectoral fins are short and rounded. The single, small dorsal fin is positioned far back on the body, about opposite the anal fin, and has a rounded margin. The pelvic and anal fins are large, broad, and rounded, and also positioned well back on the body. The caudal fin is very long and roughly triangular, without a lower lobe or a ventral notch on the upper lobe. There are a pair of thick skin folds of unknown function running along the belly, separated by a groove. The midsection is relatively longer in females than in males, with the pelvic fins pushed closer to the anal fin. The dermal denticles are small and shaped like the tip of a chisel, becoming enlarged and sharp on the dorsal margin of the caudal fin. This species is a uniform dark brown or gray. The frilled shark differs from its southern African relative, \"C. africana\", in having more vertebrae (160–171 vs 147) and more turns in the spiral valve intestine (35–49 versus 26–28), as well as in various proportional measurements such as a longer head and shorter gill slits. The maximum known length is for males and for females.\n\nHighly specialized for life in the deep sea, the frilled shark has a reduced, poorly calcified skeleton and an enormous liver filled with low-density lipids, allowing it to maintain its position in the water column with little effort. It is one of the few sharks with an \"open\" lateral line, in which the mechanoreceptive hair cells are positioned in grooves that are directly exposed to the surrounding seawater. This configuration is thought to be basal in sharks and may enhance its sensitivity to the minute movements of its prey. Many frilled sharks are found with the tips of their tails missing, probably from predatory attacks by other shark species. Parasites identified from this shark include a tapeworm in the genus \"Monorygma\", the fluke \"Otodistomum veliporum\", and the nematode \"Mooleptus rabuka\".\n\nFossils of frilled sharks from the Takatika Grit of the Chatham Islands in New Zealand, dated to the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary, were found together with those of birds and conifer cones, which suggests that the sharks lived in shallow waters at that time. Previous research on other \"Chlamydoselachus\" species has shown that individuals living in shallower water had larger and stronger teeth for eating hard-shelled invertebrates. It has been hypothesized that frilled sharks, surviving the mass extinction of the K-T boundary event, were able to make use of vacated niches in shallow water and on continental shelves, the latter opening up a move to the deep-water habitats they now inhabit. Changing food availability may be reflected in how tooth morphology has shifted to become sharper and inward-pointing to prey on soft-bodied deep-sea animals. From the Late Paleocene to the present, frilled sharks may have been out-competed, restricting them to their current habitats and distribution.\n\nThe long jaws of the frilled shark are highly distensible with an extremely wide gape, allowing it to swallow whole prey over one-half its size. However, the length and articulation of its jaws means that it cannot deliver as strong a bite as more conventionally built sharks. Most captured individuals are found with no or barely identifiable stomach contents, suggesting a fast digestion rate and/or long intervals between feedings. This species preys on cephalopods, bony fishes, and smaller sharks. One long individual, caught off Chōshi, was found to have swallowed a Japanese catshark (\"Apristurus japonicus\"). Squid comprise some 60% of the diet of sharks in Suruga Bay; this includes not only slow-moving, deep-dwelling types, such as \"Chiroteuthis\" and \"Histioteuthis\", but also relatively large, powerful swimmers of the open ocean, such as \"Onychoteuthis\", \"Sthenoteuthis\", and \"Todarodes\".\n\nHow the ostensibly weak-swimming frilled shark captures active, fast-moving squid is a matter of speculation. One possibility is that it takes advantage of injured squid, or those that are exhausted and dying after spawning. Alternatively, it may surprise its prey by curving its body and, bracing itself with its posteriorly positioned fins, launching a quick strike forward in the manner of a snake. It may also be able to close its gill slits and create negative pressure to suck prey into its mouth. The many small, sharp, recurved teeth of the frilled shark are functionally similar to squid jigs and could easily snag the body or tentacles of a squid, particularly as they are rotated outwards when the jaws are protruded. Observations of captive frilled sharks swimming with their mouths open suggest that the small teeth, light against the dark mouth, may even fool squid into attacking and entangling themselves.\n\nThe frilled shark is aplacental viviparous; the developing embryos are mainly nourished by yolk, though the difference in weight between the egg and the newborn indicates that the mother also provides additional nutrition via unknown means. Adult females have two functional ovaries and one functional uterus, on the right. Unsurprisingly, there is no defined breeding season for either sex, as this shark inhabits depths at which there is little to no seasonal influence. A possible mating aggregation of 15 male and 19 female sharks has been recorded over a seamount on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. The litter size ranges from two to fifteen, with an average of six. Females ovulate eggs into the uterus about once every two weeks; vitellogenesis (yolk formation) and the growth of new ovarian eggs halt during pregnancy, apparently due to insufficient space inside the body cavity.\n\nNewly ovulated eggs and early-stage embryos are enclosed in a thin, ellipsoid, golden-brown capsule. When the embryo is long, the head is pointed when seen from above or below, the jaws are barely developed, the external gills have begun to appear, and all the fins are present. The egg capsule is shed when the embryo grows to long, and is expelled from the female's body; at this time the embryo's external gills are fully developed. The size of the yolk sac remains mostly constant until around an embryonic length of , whereupon it begins to shrink, mostly or completely disappearing by an embryonic length of . The embryonic growth rate averages per month, and therefore the entire gestation period may last three and a half years, far longer than any other vertebrate. Newborn sharks measure long; males attain sexual maturity at long, and females at long.\n\nThe frilled shark has seldom been encountered alive, and thus poses no danger to humans (though scientists have accidentally cut themselves examining its teeth). On August 27, 2004, the first observation of this species in its natural habitat was made by the ROV \"Johnson Sea Link II\", on the Blake Plateau off the southeastern United States. On January 21, 2007, a Japanese fisherman discovered a long female alive at the surface, perhaps there because of illness or weakness from the warm water. It was brought to Awashima Marine Park in Shizuoka, where it died after a few hours. Garman, and numerous authors since, have advanced the frilled shark as an explanation for sea serpent sightings. Because of the shark's modest size, some zoologists have posited the existence of a giant relative, particularly as larger \"Chlamydoselachus\" species are known from the fossil record.\n\nSmall numbers of frilled sharks are caught incidentally by various deepwater commercial fisheries around the world, using trawls, gillnets, and longlines. In particular, it is regularly taken in Suruga Bay in bottom gillnets meant for sea bream and gnomefish, and in midwater trawls meant for the shrimp \"Sergia lucens\". Japanese fishermen regard it as a nuisance, as it damages the nets. This shark is sometimes sold for meat or processed into fishmeal, but is not economically significant. Because of its very low reproductive rate and the continuing expansion of commercial fisheries into its habitat, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has previously listed it as Near Threatened, although the species was downlisted to Least Concern in 2016.\n\nIn December 2014, trawler skipper David Guillot caught a frilled shark while \"fishing in water more than deep near Lakes Entrance\", in Victoria, Australia. The shark was taken to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, where its identification was confirmed.\n\nEarly in April 2017, during the filming of a Japanese television variety program in Tokyo Bay, a live specimen of the creature was captured.\n\nIn August 2017 a group of scientists caught a frilled shark in the waters off of Portimão, Portugal. The male shark was pulled from a depth of roughly . On November 14, 2017, researchers reported that another frilled shark was caught near the coast of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "17796210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17796210", "title": "George Sackville, 4th Duke of Dorset", "text": "George Sackville, 4th Duke of Dorset\n\nGeorge John Frederick Sackville, 4th Duke of Dorset (15 November 1793 – 14 February 1815), styled Earl of Middlesex\nuntil 1799, was a British nobleman.\n\nThe only son of John Sackville, 3rd Duke of Dorset and his wife Arabella, he was educated at Harrow and Christ Church, Oxford, receiving a MA from the latter on 30 June 1813.\n\nHe was appointed High Steward of Stratford-on-Avon, and was commissioned a captain of the local militia on 27 April 1813. On 26 July 1813, he was made lieutenant-colonel commandant of the Sevenoaks and Bromley battalion of militia. However, he died in February 1815, of a fall from his horse while hunting on Killiney Hill in County Dublin. He had no children, so he was succeeded as duke by his cousin Charles Sackville-Germain. His estate of Knole passed to his sister Elizabeth Sackville-West, Countess De La Warr.\n"}
{"id": "29154287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29154287", "title": "Good clinical laboratory practice", "text": "Good clinical laboratory practice\n\nGood clinical laboratory practice (GCLP) is a GxP guideline for laboratory samples from clinical studies.\n\nGood clinical practice (GCP) does not define requirements for laboratories and good laboratory practice (GLP) focusses on pre-clinical analyses and not on human samples from clinical trials. The Research Quality Association (RQA) suggested in 2003 a guideline to close the gap. Later the World Health Organization and the British Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency issued their own versions of a GCLP guideline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7108002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7108002", "title": "Hantu Raya", "text": "Hantu Raya\n\nHantu Raya in early Malay animism, refers to a supreme ghost or demon that acts as a double for a black magic practitioner. Like the Toyol it has a master. In Malay folklore, it is a spirit which is supposed to confer the owner with great powers. \"Hantu\" means ghost and \"raya\", great, in Malay.\n\nHantu Raya originates in Malaysia and is said to be the master of all ghosts (\"hantu\"). It is the leader of the underworld legion and those who make alliance with it, are considered powerful. Hantu Raya is the acronym for Hantu or Ghost and Raya, large, huge, supreme, enormous, great, gigantic, titanic, humongous, as in \"Malaysia Raya\" and \"Asia Raya\" and Hari Raya (Great Celebration or Festival).\n\nIn modern Islamic Malay culture, the belief in Hantu Raya is no longer valid, but rather it is identified with a demon, Satan and the Djinn (Genie). Muslims believe that djinns and demons are more powerful than man but less intelligent.\n\nIn ancient times, Malay spirituality was a mix of animism, Hinduism and Buddhism. Spirit worship was common and these beliefs persisted in rural areas until the latter half of the 20th century. In the case of Hantu Raya, the owner is said to have formed a pact with demon or inherited it from older generations in the form known as Saka or legacy which is handed on down the generations. In return for the advantages and power, the owner agrees to provide for the ghost and appoints a new owner for it before dying.\n\nAccording to legend, people who fail to untie their bond with the hantu will suffer especially during death. Hantu Raya will resemble the look of its owner ever after death and go roaming. People seeing him will assume that the deceased has been brought back to life. It will search for food and new owner at night and goes around haunting people.\n\nAnother legend goes that the dying soul will face difficulty in dying and becomes a living corpse or zombie.\n\nHantu Raya is capable of materializing itself into another human being or animals and sometimes makes itself a double for the owner. Among its other trick is to form its owner's shape and sleep with the owner's partners. It can be used to perform heavy duties as commanded by its master, even to harm his enemies. It can also possess or cause death to other people if so ordered.\n\nNormally Hantu Raya feasts on \"ancak\" – an offering made for the spirits, containing: yellow glutinous rice, eggs, roasted chicken, rice flakes and a doll. In some cases Hantu Raya is offered the blood of a slaughtered animal as a sacrifice. Food offerings must strictly be observed in a timely manner, to avoid any harm caused by the hantu.\n\nHantu raya is also blamed for childbirth death, which was quite common in the days before modern medicine.\n\n\"Jangan Pandang Belakang\" (or, \"Don't Look Back\") is a Malay horror movie based on the \"hantu raya\" demon. The story is about a young man named Darma (Pierre Andre) who tries to find out the truth about the death of his fiancée, Rose. A Malay family has a \"saka\" (thing that is passed down from generation to generation in the family), in the form of hantu raya. They keep this hantu because they want to benefit, because it can make them richer, stronger or whatever they desire, but it asks something in return. It will haunt or otherwise disturb their descendants unless somebody does something about it, like contain it or removing it altogether from the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "27608135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27608135", "title": "Herbert Ayre", "text": "Herbert Ayre\n\nHerbert Wilkinson Ayre (22 October 1882 – 22 November 1966) was a footballer who played in The Football League for Grimsby Town.\n\nIn 1953, he married to Eileen Hotson.\n"}
{"id": "29071957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071957", "title": "Heterologous expression", "text": "Heterologous expression\n\nHeterologous expression refers to the expression of a gene or part of a gene in a host organism, which does not naturally have this gene or gene fragment. Insertion of the gene in the heterologous host is performed by recombinant DNA technology. After being inserted in the host, the gene may be integrated into the host DNA, causing permanent expression, or not integrated, causing transient expression. Heterologous expression can be done in many type of host organisms. The host organism can be a bacterium, yeast, mammalian cell, or plant cell. This host is called the \"expression system\".\nHomologous expression, on the other hand, refers to the overexpression of a gene in a system from where it originates.\n\nGenes are subjected to heterologous expression often to study specific protein interactions. \"E. coli\", yeast (\"S. cerevisiae, P. pastoris\"), immortalized mammalian cells, and amphibian oocytes (i.e. unfertilized eggs) are commonly for studies that require heterologous expression. \n\n"}
{"id": "25152980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25152980", "title": "Illusionism (philosophy)", "text": "Illusionism (philosophy)\n\nIllusionism is a metaphysical theory first propounded by professor Saul Smilansky of the University of Haifa. It holds that people have illusory beliefs about free will. Furthermore, it holds that it is both of key importance and morally right that people not be disabused of these beliefs, because the illusion has benefits both to individuals and to society. Belief in hard incompatibilism, argues Smilansky, removes an individual's basis for a sense of self-worth in his or her own achievements. It is \"extremely damaging to our view of ourselves, to our sense of achievement, worth, and self-respect\".\n\nNeither compatibilism nor hard determinism are the whole story, according to Smilansky, and there exists an \"ultimate perspective\" in which \"some\" parts of compatibilism are valid and \"some\" parts of hard determinism are valid. However, Smilansky asserts, the nature of what he terms the \"fundamental dualism\" between hard determinism and compatibilism is a morally undesirable one, in that both beliefs, in their absolute forms, have adverse consequences. The distinctions between choice and luck made by compatibilism are important, but wholly undermined by hard determinism. But, conversely, hard determinism undermines the morally important notions of justice and respect, leaving them nothing more than \"shallow\" notions.\n\nSmilansky's thesis is considered a radical one, and other philosophers disagree with it. Professor Derk Pereboom of Cornell University, for example, disagrees that hard incompatibilism necessarily does away with self-worth, because to a large extent that sense of self-worth isn't related to will at all, let alone to free will. Aspects of worthiness such as natural beauty, native physical ability, and intelligence are not voluntary. Professor James Lenman of the University of Glasgow (at the time) takes a similar line, arguing that Smilansky's expression of the problems is overstated. The problems that he presents are less fundamentally metaphysical than simply practical in nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "54423338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54423338", "title": "Italian submarine Corallo", "text": "Italian submarine Corallo\n\nItalian submarine \"Corallo\" was a built for the Royal Italian Navy (\"Regia Marina\") during the 1930s. She was named after a gemstone Coral.\n\nThe \"Perla\"-class submarines were essentially repeats of the preceding . The modifications that were made compared to the boats of the previous series were mostly of upgrade nature. Among them were enlargement of the false tower at the top, more modern engines, installation of a radiogoniometer that could be controlled from inside the ship. Improvements and the installation of new air conditioning equipment meant a slight increase in displacement, and increase in the fuel stowage also increased the autonomy of these boats compared to the previous series. Their designed full load displacement was surfaced and submerged, but varied somewhat depending on the boat and the builder. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of to .\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft with overall power of . When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the \"Perla\" class had a range of at , submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with six internal torpedo tubes, four in the bow and two in the stern. One reload torpedo was carried for each tube, for a total of twelve. They were also armed with one deck gun for combat on the surface. The light anti-aircraft armament consisted of one or two pairs of machine guns.\n\n\"Corallo\" was built by CRDA at their shipyard in Monfalcone, laid on 1 October 1935, launched on 2 August 1936 and completed on 26 September 1936.\n\nAfter delivery, \"Corallo\" was assigned to the 34th Squadron (III Submarine Group) based at Messina. After a brief training, she carried out a long endurance cruise in the Dodecanese and the Adriatic. In 1937 she carried out a training campaign, followed by another one in 1938. On October 15, 1938 she was temporarily assigned to Flotilla Submarine school. In 1939 \"Corallo\" returned to active duty, and was assigned to the 72nd Squadron (VII Submarine Group) based at Cagliari where she remained until the end of her career.\n\nItaly's entry into World War II found \"Corallo\" at Monfalcone undergoing repairs and maintenance which were finished in late August 1940. On September 3, 1940 \"Corallo\", under command of captain Loris Albanese, was sent to patrol an area 60 miles south of Crete, between Gaudo and Alexandria. At 18:00 on September 17 \"Corallo\" sighted in the position a zigzagging British column heading towards Alexandria. The British force was made up of the aircraft carrier , battleship escorted by five destroyers returning to Alexandria after bombarding Derna and Benghazi. At 18:30 \"Corallo\" launched two torpedoes from 1,500 meters against and immediately dove down to 80 meters . After 75 seconds two loud explosions were heard, but no ship, however, was hit. \"Corallo\" was then subjected to depth charge attacks by the destroyers which went on for 3 hours. The submarine suffered some damage which impaired her operational efficiency, and two crew members died in the attack. Since the damage to submarine could not be repaired by means available at sea, \"Corallo\" was forced to interrupt her mission and headed to Tobruk which she reached on September 18, 1940 .\n\nOn November 5, 1940 \"Corallo\" and four other submarines (, , and ) were deployed about 90 miles south-east of Malta with the task of intercepting a British convoy, part of Operation \"Coat\". \"Corallo\" and other submarines formed a barrier with a 20 to 30 miles spacing between them. \"Corallo\", however, did not detect any enemy vessels .\n\nOn January 21, 1941 \"Corallo\" and patrolled off the northern Tunisian coast. \"Corallo\" had to abort her mission almost immediately due to a failure, and the submarine had to return to the base.\n\nIn February 1941 she was on patrol north of Cape Bougaroun, but engine problems forced the submarine to return to the base.\n\nIn April 1941 she patrolled south of Sardinia, but her mission was cut short again, this time because of the adverse weather conditions.\n\nIn May 1941 she patrolled around 50 miles west of the island of La Galite without any sightings.\n\nIn July 1941 \"Corallo\" was involved in another uneventful patrol southwest of Sardinia.\n\nIn October 1941 she was posted off Cap Zebib, but still without success.\n\nOn November 3, 1941 \"Corallo\" under command of captain Andreani was deployed west of Malta as a protective screen for a large Italian \"Beta\" convoy travelling to Libya. Her job was to detect and report any British naval movements west of Malta, and attack the sighted ships when possible. On November 9, 1941 the \"Beta\" convoy was intercepted and destroyed by British Force K in the Battle of the Duisburg Convoy. Force K managed to leave Malta without \"Corallo\" being able to detect it since it did not pass through her area of operation, but rather through the one controlled by . At sunset, the submarine left her assigned area and moved to her new area of operations off Algeria and Tunisia.\n\nIn January 1942 she patrolled between Malta and Capo Passero.\n\nIn March 1942 \"Corallo\" again patrolled off Malta.\n\nIn April 1942 \"Coralllo\" was sent to patrol off Cape Bon. At 4:10 on April 28, 1942 off Bona, \"Corallo\" stopped Tunisian sailboats \"Dar es Salaam\" (138 GRT) and \"Tunis\" (41 GRT). The boats carried a Vichy France flag, but didn't have a special permit allowing them to sail. \"Corallo\" took their crew on board, thirteen men in total, then sank the sailboats with gunfire in the position . \n\nIn May and June 1942 she patrolled east of the island of La Galite. At 2:00 on June 7, 1942, \"Corallo\" stopped another Tunisian sailboat \"Hady M'Hammed\" (26 GRT). Believing the boat was carrying materials on behalf of the Allies, captain Adreani ordered the crew of the sailboat (6 men) to abandon ship, took them prisoners and then sank the sailboat with gunfire in the position . \"Corallo\" then received an order to patrol another area northwest of Algiers. Upon return to the base, a new commander, captain Guido Guidi, was appointed.\n\nOn June 11, 1942 the submarine was sent along with four other submarines (, , and ) to patrol the triangle between Malta, Pantelleria and Lampedusa with the task of interception of a British convoy, part of Operation \"Harpoon\". \"Corallo\" did not, however, sight any enemy ships .\n\nIn October 1942 she was sent to patrol an area south of the Balearic Islands.\n\nIn November 1942 after the launch of Operation Torch she was deployed to patrol an area off Bizerta. \"Corallo\" also penetrated into Philippeville harbor, but there were no ships to attack.\n\nIn early December she was deployed together with , , , , , , , and in the western Mediterranean, as a defensive screen protecting Axis convoys to Tunis.\n\nOn December 10, 1942 \"Corallo\" sailed from Cagliari to patrol an area between Bona and Bizerta with a task of trying to penetrate Bougie harbor during the night of December 13 and destroying any ships she would have found there. After the departure, \"Corallo\" was never heard from again.\n\nAfter the end of the war, from British records, it was established that on the night of December 13, 1942, \"Corallo\" 14 miles from Bougie, was spotted and attacked by four British escorts (, , , ) from the KMS-4 convoy, sailing from Gibraltar to Algiers. \"Corallo\" was depth charged, damaged and forced to surface. At this point, according to some sources, \"Corallo\" tried to engage with her deck gun, but the British sloop accelerated and rammed the submarine. While suffered serious collision damage even to her inner structures, \"Corallo\" had the worst of it, and sunk with all hands (commander Guidi, 5 officers, and 43 other crew members) in the position .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "307248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307248", "title": "James Traficant", "text": "James Traficant\n\nJames Anthony Traficant Jr. (May 8, 1941 – September 27, 2014) was a Democratic, and later independent, politician and member of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio. He represented the 17th Congressional District, which centered on his hometown of Youngstown and included parts of three counties in northeast Ohio's Mahoning Valley. He was expelled from the House after being convicted of taking bribes, filing false tax returns, racketeering and forcing his aides to perform chores at his farm in Ohio and houseboat in Washington, D.C. He was sentenced to prison and released on September 2, 2009, after serving a seven-year sentence.\n\nTraficant died on September 27, 2014, as the result of injuries sustained in an accident that had occurred several days earlier when his tractor flipped over as he was driving it into his barn.\n\nBorn into a working-class Catholic family in Youngstown, Ohio, Traficant was the son of Agnes (\"née\" Farkas) and James Anthony Traficant Sr. He was of mostly Italian and Slovak ancestry. Traficant graduated from Cardinal Mooney High School in 1959 and the University of Pittsburgh in 1963. He played quarterback for Pitt's football team, and his teammates included Mike Ditka. Traficant was drafted in the NFL's twentieth round (276th overall) by the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1963, and tried out for the Steelers and the Oakland Raiders of the American Football League, but did not play professionally. He later obtained a master's degree from the University of Pittsburgh (1973) and another from Youngstown State University (1976).\n\nAt the start of his career, Traficant worked as consumer finance director for the Youngstown Community Action Program. He taught courses on drug and alcohol dependency and recovery at Youngstown State University and Kent State University, as well as lecturing on drug and alcohol abuse for colleges and government agencies outside Ohio. In addition, Traficant taught at the Ohio Peace Officer Training Academy. He was the executive director of the Mahoning County Drug Program from 1971 to 1981, and Sheriff of Mahoning County from 1981 to 1985. While serving as sheriff, Traficant made national headlines by refusing to execute foreclosure orders on several unemployed homeowners, many of whom had been left out of work by the recent closures of steel mills. This endeared him to the local population, which was dealing with a declining economy following the closures and relocations of steel making and steel-associated businesses.\n\nIn 1983, he was charged with racketeering for accepting bribes. Traficant, who represented himself in the criminal trial, argued that he accepted the bribes only as part of his own alleged secret undercover investigation into corruption. Traficant was acquitted of the charges, becoming the only person ever to win a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) case while representing himself.\n\nPublicity from the RICO trial increased Traficant's local visibility. He was elected as a Democrat to Congress from Ohio's 17th District, defeating Lyle Williams, a three-term Republican incumbent. He was reelected eight times without serious opposition.\n\nWhile in Congress, Traficant was a supporter of immigration reduction, and a strong opponent of illegal immigration. In the controversy surrounding the defeat of Congressman Bob Dornan (R-CA) by Democrat Loretta Sanchez, Traficant was the only Democratic member of Congress who advocated a new election, due to Dornan's allegations of voting in that race by undocumented immigrants. The allegations went unproven, and a new election was not held.\n\nTraficant's major legislative accomplishment in the House was the adoption of some of his proposals to constrain enforcement activities by the Internal Revenue Service against delinquent taxpayers.\n\nAfter the Republicans took control of the House in 1995, Traficant tended to vote more often with the Republicans than with his own party. On the issue of abortion, Traficant voted with the position of the National Right to Life Committee 95% of the time in the 105th Congress, and 100% of the time in the 106th and 107th Congresses. However, he voted against all four articles of impeachment against Bill Clinton. After he voted for Republican Dennis Hastert for Speaker of the House in 2001, the Democrats stripped him of his seniority and refused to give him any committee assignments. Because the Republicans did not assign him to any committees either, Traficant became the first member of the House of Representatives in over a century—outside the top leadership—to lack a single committee assignment.\n\nTraficant championed the unpopular cause of John Demjanjuk, a Ukrainian-born autoworker from Seven Hills, who had been convicted in Israel and sentenced to hang for having been the brutal concentration camp guard Ivan the Terrible. For almost a decade, Traficant (along with Pat Buchanan) insisted that Demjanjuk had been denied a fair trial, and been the victim of mistaken identity; in 1993 the Supreme Court of Israel overturned the conviction, on the basis of doubt. Demjanjuk was later deported to Germany on May 11, 2009, after the Supreme Court of the United States refused to overturn his deportation order. Demjanjuk was tried and convicted by a German criminal court of being an accessory to murder, but died before the German Appellate Court could hear his case, thereby voiding the conviction.. Drake Caggiula was later not charged for a similar offense by the German government.\n\nFollowing Pat Buchanan's recommendation to reconsider the denaturalization of former Nazi and NASA scientist Arthur Rudolph, who had been brought to the United States under Operation Paperclip, Traficant spoke to the Friends of Arthur Rudolph, an organization based in Huntsville, Alabama. He argued that denaturalization had happened because of a \"powerful Jewish lobby\" influencing Congress. He added that it was a violation of a United States citizen's civil rights, and he suggested that Rudolph return to the United States nonetheless. Additionally, he \"introduced a resolution in Congress [...] calling for an investigation into the OSI's handling of Rudolph's case.\" Meanwhile, in 1990, Traficant had planned to meet Rudolph in Niagara Falls, on the Canadian–American border; however, Rudolph was arrested by immigration officials in Toronto, and the meeting never occurred.\n\nIn 2002, Traficant was indicted on federal corruption charges for taking campaign funds for personal use. Again, he opted to represent himself, insisting that the trial was part of a vendetta against him dating back to his 1983 trial. After a two-month federal trial, on April 11, 2002, he was convicted of 10 felony counts including bribery, racketeering and tax evasion. Per House rules, he lost his right to vote on legislation pending an investigation by the United States House Committee on Ethics.\n\nEventually, the House Ethics Committee recommended that Traficant be expelled from Congress. On July 24 the House voted to expel him by a 420–1 vote. The sole vote against expulsion was Rep. Gary Condit, who at the time was in the midst of a scandal of his own and had been defeated in his reelection primary. Traficant was the first representative to be expelled since Michael Myers's expulsion in 1980 as a result of the Abscam scandal.\n\nAfter his expulsion, Traficant ran as an independent candidate for another term in the House while incarcerated at the United States Penitentiary, Allenwood. He received 28,045 votes, or 15 percent, and became one of only a handful of individuals in the history of the United States to run for a federal office from prison. The election was won by one of his former aides, Tim Ryan.\n\nTraficant entered the Federal Correctional Institution, Allenwood, on August 6, 2002, with the Federal Bureau of Prisons ID # 31213-060. He served his first seventeen months at Allenwood. Shortly after his arrival, he was put in solitary confinement for incitement to riot after he told a guard, \"People can't hear you. Speak up.\" During the seven years of his incarceration, Traficant refused any visitors, saying that he didn't want anyone to see him. He was released on September 2, 2009, at age 68, and was subject to three years of probation.\n\nWhile in prison, Traficant received support from David Duke, who urged visitors to his personal website to donate to his personal fund. Duke posted a letter written by Traficant stating that he was targeted by the United States Department of Justice for, among other things, defending John Demjanjuk. Traficant also claimed, in the letter, that he knew facts about \"Waco, Ruby Ridge, Pan Am Flight 103, Jimmy Hoffa and the John F. Kennedy assassination\", which he may divulge in the future. Author Michael Collins Piper, who initially helped circulate Traficant's letter, said that \"There's stuff I've written about Traficant that's showing up in places I don't even know. It's like (six) degrees of separation with the Internet now,\" and denied that Traficant had any direct connections to Duke.\n\nTraficant was released from prison on September 2, 2009. On September 6, 2009, 1200 supporters welcomed him home at a banquet with an Elvis impersonator, and a Traficant lookalike contest. \"Welcome home Jimbo\" was printed on T-shirts. \"I think it's time to tell the FBI and the IRS that this is our country and we're tired—tired of the pressure, tired of the political targeting, tired of a powerful central government that is crippling America,\" he said. He also said he was considering running for his old seat in Congress. Traficant signed a limited, three-month contract to work as a part-time weekend talk radio host for Cleveland news/talk station WTAM in January 2010. His contract permitted him to quit if he chose to run for office.\n\nOn November 2, 2009, a column by Traficant in the American Free Press continued his defense of the accused concentration camp guard John Demjanjuk. Michael Collins Piper an AFP writer—who authored \"Target: Traficant, The Untold Story\" – previously defended Traficant against his accusers.\n\nIn September 2010, Traficant was certified to run for the same seat he held before his expulsion, and said that his platform would be to repeal the Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Traficant lost the election to his former aide Tim Ryan, to whom he lost an earlier race in 2002, in which Traficant ran as an independent from his prison cell. Traficant received 30,556 votes, or 16%.\n\nAfter his release from prison, he was featured as a guest speaker at a Tea Party protest in Columbiana, Ohio, among other events affiliated with conservatism.\n\nTraficant began a grassroots campaign in July 2014, \"Project Freedom USA\", to, among other things, put people pressure on Congress to get rid of the IRS and \"divorce\" the Federal Reserve.\n\nTraficant was injured in an accident at his farm on September 23, 2014. A tractor he was driving into a pole barn flipped over and trapped him underneath. Traficant was taken to Salem Regional Medical Center in Salem, Ohio, then airlifted to St. Elizabeth's Health Center in Youngstown. On the evening of September 24, his wife described him as \"sedated and not doing well.\"\n\nBy September 26, via news reports and statements from attorney and family spokesman Heidi Hanni, it was learned that the family was awaiting the doctors' assessment; there was no word as to whether or not Traficant had suffered a heart attack, but he was still unconscious and was being sedated for pain and other reasons. A number of longtime family friends, including Linda Kovachik, a former congressional aide to Traficant, told \"The Vindicator\" that it is believed Traficant had a heart attack, causing the tractor accident.\n\nA text message was sent out Friday evening September 26 by Jim Condit Jr., the Constitution Party candidate for Ohio's 8th congressional district and a close friend who had been traveling with Traficant to help promote Project Freedom USA. The text message stated that \"the machines were disconnected at 2:00 p.m. (Friday). He is still breathing. Thousands are praying.\" On September 27, 2014, Traficant died at a hospice in Poland, Ohio, aged 73. By September 29, Traficant's body had been buried in an undisclosed location after the family had a private funeral, and announced that there would be no public funeral for him.\n\nA subsequent medical investigation determined that Traficant had not had a heart attack or seizure before the accident, and was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol. In addition, he had not sustained any crushing injuries in the accident. The forensic pathologist who conducted the examination attributed Traficant's death to positional asphyxiation, stating that he had been unable to breathe because of the weight of the tractor, under which he had been trapped after the accident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58650888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58650888", "title": "John Leigh (doctor)", "text": "John Leigh (doctor)\n\nJohn Leigh (8 June 1812 – 11 November 1888) was a chemist and surgeon in Manchester, England, who became that city's first appointed Medical Officer of Health, having responsibility for public health.\n\nJohn Leigh was born on 8 June 1812, probably at Foxdenton Hall in Chadderton but possibly in Liverpool. His father, Thomas, was a druggist and tea-dealer from Ashton-under-Lyne, whilst his mother, Hannah, came from Saddleworth. John said he was related to an ancient Cheshire family, the Leighs of West Hall, and thus also with the Earl of Bridgewater, but doubt has been cast on these claims.\n\nLeigh attended a school associated with Dukinfield Moravian Church and then pursued a career in medicine, being initially apprenticed to a doctor based in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. From 1831, he studied at Thomas Turner's Pine Street medical school in Manchester and at Guy's Hospital, London, as well as working for a period as a clerk at the Manchester Infirmary. Possessed of much ability, Leigh was training other medical students and successfully proposing them for their professional qualifications before achieving his own qualification as a Member of the Royal College of Surgeons. After qualifying, he had an extensive private medical practice in Manchester until 1868 and worked as a resident medical officer at the Infirmary. He also held chairs in chemistry and forensic medicine at the Pine Street school and also at one located on Marsden Street in the city, which eventually amalgamated to form the Manchester Royal School of Medicine. He was also a registrar for births and deaths at this time.\n\nManchester was one of the first towns to use coal gas extensively and Leigh, who became a fellow of the Chemical Society, was employed as a chemical analyst by the municipally-owned Manchester Gas Works, perhaps beginning in 1837. Manufacture of coal gas was not a trivial undertaking, requiring analysis of the raw material and of methods of chemical purification and extraction. The purpose of Leigh's work was to enable production of a high-quality gas suitable for use in illumination and to prevent emission of noxious fumes and by-products. He developed a considerable expertise, presenting papers on the subject of gas analysis to learned societies such as the British Association and, in 1863, patenting a process for the extraction of benzole from coal gas.\n\nThe professional interest in gas analysis, prior experiences at the Manchester Infirmary, where he often saw damaged lungs, and the publication of Edwin Chadwick's \"The Sanitary Condition of the Labouring Population\" in 1842 caused Leigh to take an interest in public health matters. From the 1840s, he proposed that the high incidence of respiratory disease in Manchester, compared to other areas of England, was due to the city's poor air quality and that this was largely attributable to the extensive use of coal as fuel in what was the first industrial city. Charles James Napier had described Manchester as \"the chimney of the world\" in 1839 and a near-contemporary study of deaths in the city between 1840-42 blamed \"diseases of the windpipe and chest\" as the major causes, accounting for nearly 30 per cent of all fatalities and blaming the smoke-filled air in particular for poor health among children. Leigh believed that the level of harmful particulates in the air needed to be reduced and he also thought it necessary to ensure better-quality food and better ventilation of homes. The tendency of city officials throughout the century was to rely on the goodwill of manufacturers to achieve improvements in air quality rather than the blunt instrument of prosecution.\n\nAlthough Leigh did not subscribe to a commonly held belief that smoke from burning coal had purifying properties, he did generally appear to accept the popular miasma theory as an explanation for transmission of diseases. The theory was that bad smells from rotting organic matter, excrement and similar were the cause of transmission, rather than the microbes that found a breeding-ground in such an environment. While germ theory was gaining ground as an alternate proposition, Leigh did not mention it in any of his annual reports until 1887 and even on that occasion he qualified his support. Leigh's position was not uncommon: during the period that he was active in civic life, policy both nationally and locally was influenced more by the miasma theory than germ theory and so concentrated more on matters relating to sanitation than, say, immunisation. It was the era of the Health of Towns Association, the first local boards of health and the reformist bodies such as the Manchester and Salford Sanitary Association and the Manchester Statistical Society, although the city elders of Manchester - a \"self-perpetuating inner circle of big merchants, manufacturers and landlords\", according to Platt - had been reluctant to accept early government initiatives such as the 1848 Public Health Act. Robert Rawlinson, a noted sanitarian and engineer of the time, described how public policy in Manchester had affected the city's rivers by the 1840s: \n\nLeigh became recognised locally as an expert in matters relating to chemistry as applicable to civic administration. His ability to analyse manufacturing processes caused him to be consulted by the council when they were attempting to educate industrialists and enforce smoke abatement measures. In 1850, he co-authored \"A History of the Cholera in Manchester in 1849\", the aims of which have been described by Robert Kargon, a historian of science, as \"nothing less than the scientific assessment of disease and the public health measures taken against it.\" To that end, he not merely attempted to document the outbreak of cholera itself but also the environmental context in which it occurred. He attempted to map the progress of the disease from one area to another and he tested various theories of probable cause. After rejecting suggestions that the cause may have lain in, for example, a deficiency of \"atmospheric electricity\" or the amount of ozone in the air, the conclusions drawn were that the outbreak had been mostly restricted to areas where the standards of sanitation were particularly poor, although it was at pains to point out that those standards existed both before and after the outbreak and thus could not in themselves have caused it. While movement of infected people from one place to another seemed to explain how the disease was introduced from affected areas to previously unaffected locations, often at a relatively large distance, the study suggested that direct contact with a carrier was not necessary for propagation. Kargon quotes from the study:\n\nIn 1859, Leigh was a member of a Nuisance Committee that examined air pollution caused by manufacturers in the Ardwick area and which was considered to have had success in improving the situation. All of these various efforts, and more, garnered Leigh a reputation for an investigative, analytical mind and an expertise in medicine and chemistry. They qualified him for appointment as Manchester's first Medical Officer of Health, responsible for matters relating to public health, but an initial proposal to that effect by the city council's General Purposes committee in 1867 was challenged by in general council discussion. A subsequent formal recruitment process led by another committee resulted in a recommendation in March 1868 to appoint a different applicant but the aldermen over-ruled again, this time preferring Leigh to the proposed candidate. Kargon believes that Leigh's abilities and reputation as a scientist, in particular, were thought to be superior and carried the day but Harry L. Platt says that the aldermen were intent on minimising the cost of local government and that Leigh's appointment on a part-time basis was preferred because, as an existing employee, it would entail no additional salary. He says that a series of increasingly disastrous floods of the rivers Irk, Irwell and Medlock from the 1840s had resulted in large part from the council's unwillingness to charge the public purse in the cause of environmental improvements and that, after the floods of 1866, their hand was forced in large part because of the increased concern of death from cholera. Fear of epidemic and reaction to emergencies were, according to the historian Anthony Wohl, the cause of rebalancing an official mindset that was general based on \"corruption, lethargy, innate conservatism ... and parsimony.\"\n\nPlatt describes Leigh as being \"compliant\" but not uncritical of the city that employed him. Although Manchester was considered to be a leader in efforts relating to smoke abatement, often acting in advance of national legislative measures, Leigh's reports as Medical Officer for Health were unremitting in their criticism of air quality. He drew attention to and demanded vigorous action against smoke and other emissions, which he noted caused not only respiratory disease but also, for example, limited the impact of sunlight and thus exacerbated rickets and depression. Despite a zealous personal desire for eradication and the emergence between 1870-1888 of a range of pressure groups in Manchester that sought abatement of emissions, the official belief throughout the century was that the nuisance was in fact being reduced. Leigh's 1883 report supported this in noting a visible reduction in smoke density resulting from greater regulation and the deployment of more inspectors, although quantitative measurements were rare and the belief of success was thus mostly subjective. Bowler and Brimblecombe say that, despite the history of progressive efforts by the civic authorities on this issue, abatement measures could not keep up with the rapid development of the town, whose industrial expansion had continued apace and whose population had grown from 70,000 to 243,000 between 1801-1841 alone. There was little scientific monitoring of smoke levels.\n\nLeigh also supported the promotion of public baths, believing like many of his contemporary social reformers, that if people had the opportunity to improve their cleanliness then that would in turn aid improvement of their moral and social behaviour.\n\nLeigh held other scientific interests, notably in botany and geology, and both shared and developed these in his close friendship with Edward William Binney and with other prominent members of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, such as John Davies, James Prescott Joule and William Sturgeon. He also published a volume of poetry, \"Sir Percy Legh: a legend of Lyme, and other ballads\", in 1861, and wrote \"Lays and Legends of Cheshire\".\n\nLeigh was still the incumbent Medical Officer at the time of his death from cardiac disease at his home in Hale Barns, Cheshire, on 11 November 1888. He was buried nearby, at Timperley, four days later. He had moved to the Manchester suburb of Whalley Range upon being appointed Medical Officer in 1868 and then relocated to a purpose-built Tudor-style Cheshire mansion, which was called the Manor House, in 1879.\n\nA first marriage, to Marianne Goodwin on 29 August 1840, ended with his wife's death in 1847; he then married Elizabeth Collier on 11 October 1848 and she survived until 1891. He had a son and a daughter from his first marriage, and a further two daughters and three sons from his second. One son predeceased him and it seems that the surviving male children were excluded from his will.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "45649103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45649103", "title": "Kaichi Hirate", "text": "Kaichi Hirate\n\nKaichi Hirate was a Japanese soldier. He was a Captain in the Japanese Imperial Army and during World War II was Camp Commander of the First Branch Camp at Hakkokate. In 1946, charged with mistreatment of prisoners of war, he was tried by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East at Yokohama. He was found guilty, sentenced to death, and hanged.\n"}
{"id": "13463424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13463424", "title": "Kenji Nagai", "text": "Kenji Nagai\n\nHe was shot dead in Myanmar (also known as Burma) during the Saffron Revolution. Nagai continued to take photos as he lay wounded on the ground, later dying from gunshot injuries to the chest. He was the only foreign national killed in the protests.\n\nKenji Nagai grew up in Imabari, Ehime, Japan, and graduated from Imabari Nishi High School. Nagai attended Tokyo Keizai University (), and after graduation he studied abroad in the United States for a year. After his return to Japan, Nagai held a part-time job before embarking upon his career as a freelance journalist. Working as a contract photojournalist for Tokyo's AFP News, Nagai was accustomed to traveling to dangerous places in the Middle East. From 1997 until his death, Nagai took assignments in Afghanistan, Cambodia, the Palestinian territories, and Iraq, taking photographs that captured the essence of war.\n\nNagai arrived in Myanmar two days before the government began attacking Buddhist monks protesting against the military junta that has ruled the country since deposing the democratic government in a 1962 coup d'état. The protests originally began when the government raised the price of fuel, but grew into mass demonstrations in the tens of thousands, with Buddhist monks leading pro-democracy marches in the streets of Yangon. According to \"The Times\", an associate of Nagai's said he was \"relentless\" when it came to covering a story, believing that he had to travel to \"the places nobody wants to go.\"\n\nNagai had been in Myanmar covering the anti-government protests since Tuesday, September 25. On Thursday, September 27, Nagai was photographing the protests near the Traders Hotel, a few blocks away from the Sule Pagoda in downtown Yangon, when soldiers opened fire on demonstrators, killing Nagai and reportedly injuring another foreign journalist.\n\nReports initially stated that Nagai was hit by stray bullets fired by soldiers or possibly shot from the front. The \"stray bullet\" explanation was proposed by the government of Myanmar as an explanation for Nagai's death. However, video footage obtained by Japanese television appears to show a Burmese soldier shoving Nagai to the ground and shooting him at point-blank range. A still image photographed by Adrees Latif showed the soldier standing over Nagai, who was sprawled on the ground and still clutching his camera. This photograph appeared on the front page of \"The New York Times\" on September 28, 2007. A subsequent shot showed Nagai's body sprawled in the street as the soldier walked away. Judging from the patch, the soldier responsible is believed to be from one of the Light Infantry Divisions (possibly LID 66) in charge of crowd control in Yangon at the time of protests. At the Japanese embassy in Myanmar, a physician established the trajectory of the fatal bullet that killed Nagai, determining that the bullet entered Nagai's chest from the lower right side and pierced his heart before exiting from his back.\n\nOn October 8, new footage showing how a Burmese soldier apparently confiscating a fallen Nagai's video camera was revealed on a Japanese news show. Adrees Latif's photo, depicting Nagai sprawling on the pavement before his death, won the Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Photography in 2008.\n\nReporters Without Borders condemned the killing of Nagai, noting that Nagai was carrying a camera in his hand when he was shot, identifying him as a journalist. The director of the RWB's Washington, D.C. branch, Lucie Morillon, said that Nagai was \"left to die in the street.\"\n\nJapanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda bemoaned Nagai's death as \"extremely unfortunate\" and Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura offered his prayers and condolences. Machimura said: \"We strongly protest the Myanmar government and demand an investigation (into the death). We demand (Myanmar) take appropriate steps to ensure the safety of the Japanese citizens in that country.\" Japan's Foreign Minister Masahiko Kōmura stated that Japan holds Myanmar accountable for the death of Kenji Nagai. According to Kōmura, U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told him that the \"international community cannot allow peaceful protesters to be killed and injured\". On September 28, Masahiko Kōmura lodged a protest over the killing of Nagai when he met with Myanmar's Foreign Minister Nyan Win at the United Nations Headquarters. In the meeting, Nyan Win apologized for Nagai's death. Yabunaka Mitoji, Deputy Minister for Japanese Foreign Affairs, left for Myanmar on September 30.\n\nAlthough Nyan Win officially apologized, an October 13 article locally published in the government-owned \"Mirror\" newspaper offered a different view of the events. It claimed that Nagai had entered the country using a tourist visa instead of proper journalist visa and faulted the cameraman for failing to get a permit to cover the news inside Myanmar. It emphasized that the event occurred at the time of martial law being imposed and the soldiers could not differentiate between a Burmese citizen and a Japanese because of the resemblance in Asian looks.\n\nNagai's father, Hideo, told the media: \"I don't want Myanmar authorities and the government to resort to such measures. I want them to prevent something like this from happening again.\" According to Japan's Foreign minister Masahiko Komura, Japan is considered curbing development aid for Myanmar.\n\n\"The Group Protesting the Murder of Mr. Nagai by the Army of Myanmar\" was founded by Japanese journalists, intellectuals and celebrities in order to protest Nagai's killing and petition for the return of his camera and tape. By November 2007 the group collected 20,000 signatures, primarily in Japan. On November 26, 2007, the group posted an English version of the letter on their website and started collecting signatures internationally.\n\nThe Burma Media Association established an award in Nagai's memory. The award aims to recognize individuals who have reported the truth about Myanmar. The first award, in 2009, was presented to Eint Khaing Oo, a Burmese female journalist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2972988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2972988", "title": "Lady Mary Butler", "text": "Lady Mary Butler\n\nLady Mary Butler (1689 – 2 January 1713) was the second daughter of the 2nd Duke of Ormonde and maternally a granddaughter of the 1st Duke of Beaufort. She was born at Kilkenny Castle in Ireland. She married John, 3rd Baron Ashburnham, on 21 October 1710, and died two years later in childbirth. She was Jonathan Swift’s \"greatest favourite\"; he wrote \"I am in excessive concern for her death, I hardly knew a more valuable person on all accounts.\"\n"}
{"id": "190041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190041", "title": "Lifestyle (sociology)", "text": "Lifestyle (sociology)\n\nLifestyle is the interests, opinions, behaviours, and behavioural orientations of an individual, group, or culture. The term was introduced by Austrian psychologist Alfred Adler with the meaning of \"a person's basic character as established early in childhood\", for example in his 1929 book \"The Case of Miss R.\". The broader sense of lifestyle as a \"way or style of living\" has been documented since 1961. Lifestyle is a combination of determining intangible or tangible factors. Tangible factors relate specifically to demographic variables, i.e. an individual's demographic profile, whereas intangible factors concern the psychological aspects of an individual such as personal values, preferences, and outlooks.\n\nA rural environment has different lifestyles compared to an urban metropolis. Location is important even within an urban scope. The nature of the neighborhood in which a person resides affects the set of lifestyles available to that person due to differences between various neighborhoods' degrees of affluence and proximity to natural and cultural environments. For example, in areas within a close proximity to the sea, a surf culture or lifestyle can often be present.\n\nA lifestyle typically reflects an individual's attitudes, way of life, values, or world view. Therefore, a lifestyle is a means of forging a sense of self and to create cultural symbols that resonate with personal identity. Not all aspects of a lifestyle are voluntary. Surrounding social and technical systems can constrain the lifestyle choices available to the individual and the symbols she/he is able to project to others and the self.\n\nThe lines between personal identity and the everyday doings that signal a particular lifestyle become blurred in modern society. For example, \"green lifestyle\" means holding beliefs and engaging in activities that consume fewer resources and produce less harmful waste (i.e. a smaller ecological footprint), and deriving a sense of self from holding these beliefs and engaging in these activities. Some commentators argue that, in modernity, the cornerstone of lifestyle construction is consumption behavior, which offers the possibility to create and further individualize the self with different products or services that signal different ways of life.\n\nLifestyle may include views on politics, religion, health, intimacy, and more. All of these aspects play a role in shaping someone's lifestyle.\n\nIn the magazine and television industries, \"lifestyle\" is used to describe a category of publications or programs.\n\nThree main phases can be identified in the history of lifestyles studies:\n\n\n\n\nA healthy or unhealthy lifestyle will most likely be transmitted across generations. According to the study done by Case et al. (2002), when a 0-3 year old child has a mother who practices a healthy lifestyle, this child will be 27% more likely to become healthy and adopt the same lifestyle. For instance, high income parents are more likely to eat organic food, have time to exercise, and provide the best living condition to their children. On the other hand, low income parents are more likely to participate in unhealthy activities such as smoking to help them release poverty-related stress and depression. Parents are the first teacher for every child. Everything that parents do will be very likely transferred to their children through the learning process.\n\nAdults may be drawn together by mutual interest that results in a lifestyle. For example, William Dufty described how pursuing a sugar-free diet led to such associations:\n\nLifestyle research can contribute to the question of the relevance of the class concept.\n\nThe term lifestyle was introduced in the 1950s as a derivative of that of style in art:\n\nTheodor W. Adorno noted that there is a \"culture industry\" in which the mass media is involved, but that the term \"mass culture\" is inappropriate:\n\nThe media culture of advanced capitalism typically creates new \"life-styles\" to drive the consumption of new commodities:\n\n"}
{"id": "37751387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37751387", "title": "Malnutrition in South Africa", "text": "Malnutrition in South Africa\n\nMalnutrition continues to be a problem in the Republic of South Africa, although it is not as endemic as in other countries of Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n15% of South African infants are born with a low birth weight. 5% of South African children are so underweight they are considered to be wasted. Since the 1990s South Africa's malnutrition problem has remained fairly stable. It is estimated that South Africa loses about US$1.1 billion every year in GDP to vitamin and mineral deficiencies arising from malnutrition, although it would only cost an estimated US$55 million to alleviate this problem through micronutrient nutrition interventions.\n\nThe prevalence of malnutrition in South Africa varies across different geographical areas and socio-economic groups. Many infants in Africa suffer from malnutrition because their mothers do not breastfeed them. The mothers in South Africa that do not breast feed their children do not do it mainly to try to avoid the possibility that in doing so, their children may contract AIDS. The 2010 South Africa Department of Health Study found that 30.2% of pregnant women in South Africa have AIDS. Malnutrition can cause several different health problems, such as pellagra.\n\nThe specific consequences of malnutrition vary depending on the individual and the specific nutrients the individual's diet is lacking. South Africa's Department of Health has established various special programs and initiatives, like the Integrated Nutrition Program, to combat the detrimental effects of malnutrition. All programs and initiatives have faced copious challenges and their individual success rates vastly vary as a result.\n\nMalnutrition can lead to an onslaught of additional health complications, and eventually even death. In fact, UNICEF found that 11.4% of deaths of South African children under five can be attributed to low weight, making low birth weight the second most prominent cause of children's death in South Africa. According to 2008 statistics, out of 10 million children's deaths, 5.6 million can somehow be attributed to malnutrition. Although all cases of malnutrition in South Africa will not necessarily lead to death, they will most likely lead to a decline in health. The most easily preventable yet most prominent detrimental health conditions associated with malnutrition are nutrient deficiencies.\n\nA deficiency in iron levels can lead to anemia, which is a condition classified by decreased hemoglobin levels in the blood. 21.4% of pre-school children have anemia in South Africa. Anemia is also a major cause of maternal mortality. Approximately 50% of pregnant women in South Africa have anemia. Anemia causes tiredness and weakness. If left untreated for long periods of time, it can damage the heart, brain, and other vital organs.\n\nAnother common nutritional problem among South Africans is hypocalcemia, a deficiency in calcium. In a study of a randomly chosen rural South African community, 13.2% of children were found to have abnormally low levels of calcium in their blood. Additional studies done on South African children show that this deficiency can lead to Rickets. Rickets causes weakness and pain in bones and dental structures, impaired growth, muscle cramps, and skeletal deformities.\n\nMany South Africans also have a Thiamine (Vitamin B1) deficiency. A serious deficiency in this vital nutrient can cause beriberi, which has the immediate symptom of severe lethargy. If left untreated, Beriberi can cause inflammation of the nervous system and even heart failure. Heart failure associated with beriberi is especially prominent in Johannesburg, the capital of South Africa.\n\nAnother disease common to South Africa is pellagra. Dr. D Blumhson, a physician, notes a high rate of pellagra among the patients of a hospital in Soweto, South Africa. Pellagra seems to be especially common in patients with corn-based diets. The disease itself is caused by a niacin deficiency. Pellagra's symptomatology is described by the \"4 D's: \"dermatitis, diarrhea, dementia, and death\". Pellagra causes gastrointestinal discomforts like diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and poor appetite. Unfortunately, this downward spiral often causes further malnutrition, which in turn further amplifies the magnitude of pellagra.\n\nAn additional malnutrition problem is a deficiency in vitamin A. It is especially prominent in the Northern Province, the KwaZulu/Natal, the Mpumalanga, the North West Province, and the Eastern Cape of South Africa. The South African Vitamin A Consultancy Group (SAVACG) conducted a national survey for the South African Department of Health that showed that one out of three children under the age of six have a Vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A is necessary for good vision, and a shortage of this substance can lead to visual impairments and potentially even blindness. The World Health Organization showed that half of Vitamin A-deficient blind children die within the year, due to the detrimental effects of Vitamin A on the immune system.\n\nVitamin C deficiency also has detrimental effects on the South African population. Scurvy, a disease that develops from an extended shortage of Vitamin C, has previously been found prevalent in certain South African mining populations. This disease causes weakness, anemia, skin hemorrhages, and gum disease (gingivitis). Because Vitamin C plays a vital role in the formation of connective tissues, a deficiency in it may also cause complications with the immune system, iron absorption, cholesterol metabolism.\n\nAn individual in South Africa may develop malnutrition because of several factors, not all of them necessarily having to do with diet. According to UNICEF, factors that can cause malnutrition include but are not limited to stress, trauma, poor psychological care, neglect, and abuse.\n\nFor example, a woman with psychological problems may not have the cognitive abilities to recognize that she needs to feed her children, and thus may neglect to do so, causing her children not to obtain the sufficient nutrients they need to thrive. However, even mothers with full cognitive abilities may still cause their children to suffer from malnutrition by not partaking in breastfeeding.\n\nBreast milk contains many vital nutrients and minerals that protect against infant mortality. Many infants in Africa suffer from malnutrition because their mothers do not breastfeed them. The mothers in South Africa that do not breast feed their children do not do it mainly to try to avoid the possibility that in doing so, their children may contract AIDS. The 2010 South Africa Department of Health Study found that 30.2% of pregnant women in South Africa have AIDs.\n\nThus, these women pose a huge risk to their infants because infants drinking breast milk infected with the HIV virus may contract the virus as well. Infants with the HIV virus are more likely to pass away if they are breast fed than if they are formula-fed. A study published in \"the Journal of the International AIDS Society\" found that the mortality for infected infants was 19% for exclusively breast-fed infants, 13% for mixed-fed infants, and 0% for formula-fed infants.\n\nThus, many conflicted South African mothers are faced with the morally difficult decision of whether to prevent malnutrition in their children by breastfeeding them at the risk of them contracting HIV, or preventing HIV in their children at the risk of them not being properly nourished. Because the health cost of not breastfeeding a child is not widely known, most South African women chose the latter option and turn to baby formula to replace breast milk as the main nutritional source for their infants. In fact, according to the South African Demographic Health Service, out of all 3-month-old babies in South Africa, only 10% were exclusively breast-fed and 48.3% were bottle-fed.\n\nThe formula readily available to the average South African woman does not provide the sufficient nutrients necessary to sustain an infant when utilized by itself. Thus, many infants are not provided with the necessary nutrients they need to thrive, and this can lead to severe cases of malnutrition. The first two years of a person's life constitutes the most vulnerable period for malnutrition, making this lack of nutrients especially detrimental to an infant's health.\n\nHowever, the problem of malnutrition isn't simply solved by a mother choosing to breastfeed her child. Many infants who are breastfed have mothers who are severely undernourished themselves. If a mother doesn't have sufficient nutrients for herself, she is much less likely to have sufficient nutrients in her breast milk. Thus, breast milk from undernourished women is often lacking sufficient quantities of several vital vitamins and minerals like vitamin B6 and folic acid. This lack of nutrients can lead to a nutritional deficiency in the child being breastfed as well.\n\nAnother main determinant of malnutrition is culture and lifestyle. Various rural South African groups lead agricultural cultivation-based lifestyles that only allow them to live on the very limited amount of resources given to them by their land. The food resources they have access to lack several vital nutrients, making malnutrition among these people more prevalent than among pastoral people and other people with more animal-based diets. In comparison to the average American diet, rural South African groups like the South African Bantu consume a diet with less than half of the fat content.\n\nA lack of fat often accompanies a lack of protein. A lack of protein in a South African's diet can lead to a form of severe malnutrition known as \"kwashiorkor.\" Research was done to compare the frequency of kwashiorkor among five African groups: the Maasai, the Kikuyu, the Batussi, the Bahutu, the Pieraerts, and the Wakamba. The Masai are pastoral people who consume milk and on occasion, meat. The Wakamba, Kikuyu, and Bahutu are non-pastoral agricultural people who cultivate the foods that they eat. The Batussi people are livestock raisers who consume large amounts of curdled milk. The Pieraert people are lake-side dwellers who consume fresh fish and dried fish. The research found no incidences of kwashiorkor among the Masai, Batussi, the Pieraert, and a small part of the Bahutu who in addition to vegetables and grains, also cultivate beans.\n\nHowever, numerous incidences of kwashiorkor were found among the Wakamba, Kiyuku, and solely grain and vegetable-consuming Bahutu. This shows that South African people who have an agricultural cultivation-based lifestyle are at high risk for malnutrition. In addition to those living in desolate, rural areas, those living in South African slums and other poverty-stricken conditions also only have access to a high-starch, low protein diet. The typical undernourishing South African diet is based on the main staples of rice, porridge, and maize.\n\nMalnutrition is an underlying cause of severe poverty. According to statistics from the year 2000, 50% of the South African population is under the poverty line. South Africa's per capita GDP is $11000 but 21% of people live on a dollar or less a day. In 2008, 27.9% of youth between ages fifteen and twenty-four were unemployed, and the amount of overall unemployment was even higher (33.2%).\n\nThe unemployment rate partly stems from South Africa's unstable macroeconomic status that regardless of modern attempts, is yet to be effectively controlled. The nationwide economic instability causes income instability for many Africans, which is reflected in a drop of food and beverage purchases. Statistics have shown the percentage of South African incomes being spent on food and beverage purchases have dropped drastically from 27.4% in the year 2000 to 16.6% in the year 2005. These statistics are reflected in poverty-stricken South African households, where the main food providers have to change their food consumption patterns to cope with economic instability. This is a detrimental change that compromises nutrition.\n\nAccording to 2008 statistics, South Africa has the third most unequal economy in the world. The widespread poverty in Africa can be traced to many factors. UNICEF states that the main causes of malnutrition are \"household food insecurity, inadequate care for the vulnerable groups such as maternal and childcare, insufficient essential human services including health, education, water and environmental sanitation and housing. According to the effects of South African Apartheid listed in the World Fact Book, Apartheid has helped create many of these issues, especially housing, healthcare, and education. Issues like education (i.e. poor performance in school, poor cognitive development) are directly connected to malnutrition in children.\n\nSouth Africa is unique from other African countries in its particular experience with Apartheid and colonialism. South Africa has numerous rich natural resources like diamonds and gold. When diamonds and gold were discovered in 1867 and 1886, instead of causing widespread richness for the African people, it caused widespread subjugation to the Boers (Dutch Settlers). Upon their arrival, the Dutch forced black farmers to either abandon their land, become sharecroppers, or become farm laborers. Subjugation from non-native groups continued until South Africa became a Republic. This long period of subjugation eventually lead to the establishment of Apartheid in South Africa in 1948 by the National Party ( the ruling political party of the time).\n\nIn the 1960s, the Apartheid-centered government created African reserves where blacks could live and have a chance at \"separate development.\" Although the majority of South Africans were (and continue to be) black, the reserves compromised a disproportionally small amount of land (13% of South Africa). The reserves were geographically isolated and had poor healthcare, infrastructure and irrigation. Although the first multiracial election in 1994 brought an immediate end to Apartheid, the detrimental effects of Apartheid in South Africa continue to be felt today.\n\nThe poorest South African provinces today are those that encompass former African reserves ( Eastern Cape, Limpopo Province, and Kwazulu-Natal). These places are especially known for their higher rates of malnutrition as compared to the already high rates of South Africa. These Black areas also have the highest rates of AIDS in South Africa - 13.6% of black Africans in South Africa are HIV-positive, whereas only 0.3% of whites living in South Africa have the disease.\n\nWhile 72% of the South African population considered poor live in rural areas, 86.9% of the chronically poor in Kwazulu-Natal live in rural areas. Whereas people in wealthy urban areas tend to have a better nutritional status, rural and agriculturally based people in South Africa tend to have the most inadequate diet.\n\nThis is because while wealthy urban residents have access to better education and food, their rural, chronically poor counterparts are less educated, have lower literacy levels, and have limited food access. In 1997, 900,000 households that were located in formal reserves had no arable land access, 1.4 million had no access to any livestock besides chickens, and 770,000 households had access to neither arable land or other livestock. Unfortunately, many of the rural households that did have access to livestock had to sell the livestock in order to alleviate poverty. All this results in a severe shortage of food among the rural poor, thereby leading to a shortage of nutrients.\n\nSince the 1990s, the first Millennium Development Goal of the United Nations has been to eradicate world hunger and malnutrition. According to the United Nations, there are certain steps that could be especially beneficial in combating malnutrition. It is estimated that by simply increasing Vitamin A and C intake along with improving breastfeeding methods, the lives of 2.4 million children throughout the world could be saved annually. Various programs in South Africa have been established since then to help achieve this, all with different success rates.\n\nIn accordance with the goal of the United Nations, the South Africa Department of Health established the Integrated Nutrition Program in 1995. The INP aims to mainly help the people most prevalently at risk for malnutrition: children six years old and under, pregnant women, and lactating women. The main foci of the INP are breastfeeding promotion, growth monitoring and promotion, food fortification, micronutrient supplementation, hospital-based management of severe malnutrition, nutrition rehabilitation in communities, and nutrition management during illness. The INP addresses these foci through nutritional education,\nnutrition counseling services and support for specific ailments, and indirect provision of healthcare services.\n\nSince the establishment of the INP in 1995, South Africa has adopted the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes to promote breastfeeding. The code was cofounded by the World Health Organization and UNICEF during the thirty-third World Health Assembly. It aims to provide nutrition to malnourished infants through the facilitation of breast-feeding and proper use of breast-feeding substitutes only when absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, there has been a delay in the legislation of the code. If passed, it will need to promote intensive training that follows along the national breastfeeding guidelines for health workers, so that they can reach out to individuals that are doubtful of the benefits of breastfeeding their children. It will also need to promote the extension of maternity leave benefits to give working South African mothers sufficient time and resources to breastfeed.\n\nThe INP has implemented growth monitoring in South Africa through the following measures: the provision of growth cards to all caretakers of children under two years old, the constant monitoring of growth and detection of malnutrition, the provision of counsel to caretakers, and the promotion of growth. However, there are various shortcomings in Africa's approach to growth monitoring and promotion. These include inaccurate weight assessment, lack of weight plotting, nurses not trained sufficiently to detect malnutrition, inability to supply growth cards to all infants, and lack of sufficient communication with caretakers.\n\nIn order to directly address nutrient deficiencies, the INP established a mandatory food fortification program in 2003, which is interrelated to the micronutrient supplementation program. However, the programs have not reached their anticipated success rates. The food fortification program has created a food fortification mix imbedded in maize meal and other complementary foods. The mix's high Folate content seems to have eradicated Folate deficiencies. The food fortification program also made the iodization of salt mandatory since 1995. This seems to have halted incidences of iodine deficiencies. However, any micronutrients lacking in the food fortification mix can still cause malnutrition. Unfortunately, it has been difficult for the micronutrient supplementation program to provide all the lacking micronutrients to those in need. The program faces various limitations in the forms of supply, supplement quality, bio-availability, outreach, and compliance. For example, the Vitamin A supplementation program has been criticized for its struggles with reaching its most vulnerable target: children and post-partum women.\n\nThe INP has not failed to recognize the challenges that arise in the hospital-based management of severe malnutrition. South African hospitals admit numerous children for severe malnutrition, yet many of these children end up suffering easily avoidable deaths. Even after the 2006 South African amendment of the District Health Information System, which was supposed to provide the case fatality rates of severe malnourishment among children in hospitals, the lack of identification of malnutrition-related deaths remains high. However, there has been a notable drop of malnutrition-related deaths among hospitals due to training and capacity development geared at the hospital staff.\n\nIn order to address the problem of nutrient supplementation on a community-wide level, the INP helped establish the short-term program \"Nutrition Supplementation Program\" (previously known as the PEM Scheme). This program has been fairly effective because of the well-trained nutritionists that assist it. However, various shortcomings remain. The program has struggled with community based interventions and with properly reaching out to and enrolling all malnourished children without misusing resources on children that are not truly malnourished. If the Child Support Grant was extended to apply to all families of malnourished children, all at risk children could be reached and enrolled at hospitals, clinics, and other places that participate in growth monitoring.\n\nNutrition management during disease is another method used by the INP to prevent malnutrition. South Africa's Department of Health adapted the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness to encourage proper nutrition management. UNICEF, in conjunction with the World Health Organization, established the IMCI to increase child survival in areas with poor resources. IMCI aims to achieve this through a combination of improved management of common childhood diseases and proper nutrition and immunization. However, there are various vague generalities in IMCI's guidelines that make it difficult for South African health providers to know exactly how to train mothers to provide food for their children. This presents a problem because most ill South African children are never seen by a nutritionist so they have no other way of learning how to have a proper nutrition.\n\nThe article \"Agreement on Defining Malnutrition\" defines malnutrition as affecting individuals whom \"food and nutrient intake is consistently inadequate to meet individual requirements.\" By the standards of this definition, malnutrition is a prevalent problem in South Africa. In the year 2000, 39% of the country's population suffered from malnutrition. Children are the most affected by this problem, especially young children. South Africa's problem of malnutrition is unique to other countries' malnutrition problems because South Africa is a primarily young country, with one third of the population being under the age of 15.\n\nThus, the fact that 25% of pre-school children and 20% of primary school children in South Africa suffered from malnutrition in the year 2000 means that the future population of South Africa is being endangered by the problems of malnutrition The problem of malnutrition in South Africa can be individually assessed through the deviation of weight of each child from the average weight for their age. According to the World Health Organization, the deviation from the average weight of children under age five in South Africa has dropped from 31.5% to 8.7% from 1994 to 2008. Malnutrition can also be individually assessed through the deviation of height of each child from the average height for their age. This is because malnutrition stunts growth.\n\nThe World Health Organization showed that over the span of thirteen years (1995 to 2008), the deviation from the average height of children under age five in South Africa has slightly decreased from 28.7% to 23.9%. These decreases in deviation show that the problem of malnutrition in South Africa has decreased over recent years. However, it remains a prevalent problem, notably in the regions of Eastern Cape and the Limpopo Province. These two areas are especially poor and rural as compared to the rest of South Africa. According to UNICEF, although 84.5% of South Africans have access to piped water, only 62.4% of Eastern Cape residents have access to piped water.\n\nAlso, although only 13.6% of South African households have no toilet facilities, 30% of Eastern Cape residents lack toilet facilities. Similar statistics are true for the rural areas of the Limpopo Province in northern South Africa. The prevalence of malnutrition in Limpopo is so vast that 48% percent of children in the Limpopo Province evaluated in a 2005 study were shown to have stunted growth. Thus, the high levels of poverty and the rural state of these two areas reflect back through high levels of malnutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "716631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716631", "title": "Melanoma", "text": "Melanoma\n\nMelanoma, also known as malignant melanoma, is a type of cancer that develops from the pigment-containing cells known as melanocytes. Melanomas typically occur in the skin, but may rarely occur in the mouth, intestines, or eye. In women, they most commonly occur on the legs, while in men they are most common on the back. Sometimes they develop from a mole with changes such as an increase in size, irregular edges, change in color, itchiness, or skin breakdown.\nThe primary cause of melanoma is ultraviolet light (UV) exposure in those with low levels of skin pigment. The UV light may be from either the sun or from other sources, such as tanning devices. About 25% develop from moles. Those with many moles, a history of affected family members, and who have poor immune function are at greater risk. A number of rare genetic defects such as xeroderma pigmentosum also increase risk. Diagnosis is by biopsy and analysis of any skin lesion that has signs of being potentially cancerous.\nUsing sunscreen and avoiding UV light may prevent melanoma. Treatment is typically removal by surgery. In those with slightly larger cancers, nearby lymph nodes may be tested for spread. Most people are cured if spread has not occurred. For those in whom melanoma has spread, immunotherapy, biologic therapy, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy may improve survival. With treatment the five-year survival rates in the United States is 98% among those with localized disease and 17% among those in whom spread has occurred. The likelihood that it will come back or spread depends how thick the melanoma is, how fast the cells are dividing, and whether or not the overlying skin has broken down.\nMelanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. Globally, in 2012, it newly occurred in 232,000 people. In 2015 there were 3.1 million with active disease which resulted in 59,800 deaths. Australia and New Zealand have the highest rates of melanoma in the world. There are also high rates in Northern Europe and North America, while it is less common in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Melanoma is more common in men than women. Melanoma has become more common since the 1960s in areas which are mostly populated with white people.\n\nEarly signs of melanoma are changes to the shape or color of existing moles or, in the case of nodular melanoma, the appearance of a new lump anywhere on the skin. At later stages, the mole may itch, ulcerate or bleed. Early signs of melanoma are summarized by the mnemonic \"ABCDE\": \nThese classifications do not, however, apply to the most dangerous form of melanoma, nodular melanoma, which has its own classifications: \n\nMetastatic melanoma may cause nonspecific paraneoplastic symptoms, including loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting and fatigue. Metastasis of early melanoma is possible, but relatively rare: less than a fifth of melanomas diagnosed early become metastatic. Brain metastases are particularly common in patients with metastatic melanoma. It can also spread to the liver, bones, abdomen or distant lymph nodes.\n\nMelanomas are usually caused by DNA damage resulting from exposure to ultraviolet light from the sun. Genetics also plays a role. Melanoma can also occur in skin areas with little sun exposure (ie. mouth, soles of feet, palms of hands, genital areas). People with dysplastic nevus syndrome, also known as familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM, are at increased risk for the development of melanoma. \n\nHaving more than fifty moles indicates an increased risk melanoma might arise. A weakened immune system makes it easier for cancer to arise due to the body’s weakened ability to fight cancer cells.\n\nThe ultraviolet radiation from tanning beds increases the risk of melanoma. The International Agency for Research on Cancer finds that tanning beds are \"carcinogenic to humans\" and that people who begin using tanning devices before the age of thirty years are 75% more likely to develop melanoma.\n\nThose who work in airplanes also appear to have an increased risk, believed to be due to greater exposure to UV.\n\nUltraviolet UVB light (wavelengths between 315–280 nm) from the sun is absorbed by skin cell DNA and results in a type of direct DNA damage called cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs). Thymine-thymine, cytosine-cytosine or cytosine-thymine dimers are formed by the joining of two adjacent pyrimidine bases within a DNA strand. Somewhat similarly to UVB, UVA light (longer wavelengths between 400–315 nm) from the sun or from tanning beds can also be directly absorbed by skin DNA (at about 100 to 1000 fold lower efficiency than UVB is absorbed).\n\nExposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVA and UVB) is one of the major contributors to the development of melanoma. Occasional extreme sun exposure (resulting in \"sunburn\") is causally related to melanoma. Melanoma is most common on the back in men and on legs in women (areas of intermittent sun exposure). The risk appears to be strongly influenced by socioeconomic conditions rather than indoor versus outdoor occupations; it is more common in professional and administrative workers than unskilled workers. Other factors are mutations in or total loss of tumor suppressor genes. Use of sunbeds (with deeply penetrating UVA rays) has been linked to the development of skin cancers, including melanoma.\n\nPossible significant elements in determining risk include the intensity and duration of sun exposure, the age at which sun exposure occurs, and the degree of skin pigmentation. Melanoma rates tend to be highest in countries settled by migrants from northern Europe that have a large amount of direct, intense sunlight that the skin of the settlers is not adapted to, most notably Australia. Exposure during childhood is a more important risk factor than exposure in adulthood. This is seen in migration studies in Australia.\n\nHaving multiple severe sunburns increases the likelihood that future sunburns develop into melanoma due to cumulative damage. The sun and tanning beds are the main sources of UV radiation that increase the risk for melanoma and living close to the equator increases exposure to UV radiation.\n\nA number of rare mutations, which often run in families, greatly increase melanoma susceptibility. Several genes increase risks. Some rare genes have a relatively high risk of causing melanoma; some more common genes, such as a gene called MC1R that causes red hair, have a relatively lower elevated risk. Genetic testing can be used to search for the mutations.\n\nOne class of mutations affects the gene CDKN2A. An alternative reading frame mutation in this gene leads to the destabilization of p53, a transcription factor involved in apoptosis and in fifty percent of human cancers. Another mutation in the same gene results in a nonfunctional inhibitor of CDK4, a cyclin-dependent kinase that promotes cell division. Mutations that cause the skin condition xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) also increase melanoma susceptibility. Scattered throughout the genome, these mutations reduce a cell's ability to repair DNA. Both CDKN2A and XP mutations are highly penetrant (the chances of a carrier to express the phenotype is high).\n\nFamilial melanoma (FAMMM) is genetically heterogeneous, and loci for familial melanoma appear on the chromosome arms 1p, 9p and 12q. Multiple genetic events have been related to melanoma's pathogenesis (disease development). The multiple tumor suppressor 1 (CDKN2A/MTS1) gene encodes p16INK4a – a low-molecular weight protein inhibitor of cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) – which has been localised to the p21 region of human chromosome 9. FAMMM is typically characterized by having 50 or more combined moles in addition to a family history of melanoma. It is transmitted autosomal dominantly and mostly associated with the CDKN2A mutations. People who have CDKN2A mutation associated FAMMM have a 38 fold increased risk of pancreatic cancer. \n\nOther mutations confer lower risk, but are more common in the population. People with mutations in the MC1R gene are two to four times more likely to develop melanoma than those with two wild-type (typical unaffected type) copies. MC1R mutations are very common; and all red-haired people have a mutated copy. Mutation of the MDM2 SNP309 gene is associated with increased risks for younger women.\n\nFair- and red-haired people, persons with multiple atypical nevi or dysplastic nevi and persons born with giant congenital melanocytic nevi are at increased risk.\n\nA family history of melanoma greatly increases a person's risk because mutations in several genes have been found in melanoma-prone families. People with a history of one melanoma are at increased risk of developing a second primary tumor.\n\nFair skin is the result of having less melanin in the skin, which means there is less protection from UV radiation. A family history could indicate a genetic predisposition to melanoma.\n\nThe earliest stage of melanoma starts when melanocytes begin out-of-control growth. Melanocytes are found between the outer layer of the skin (the epidermis) and the next layer (the dermis). This early stage of the disease is called the radial growth phase, when the tumor is less than 1 mm thick. Because the cancer cells have not yet reached the blood vessels deeper in the skin, it is very unlikely that this early-stage melanoma will spread to other parts of the body. If the melanoma is detected at this stage, then it can usually be completely removed with surgery.\n\nWhen the tumor cells start to move in a different direction – vertically up into the epidermis and into the papillary dermis – cell behaviour changes dramatically.\n\nThe next step in the evolution is the invasive radial growth phase, which is a confusing term; however, it explains the process of the radial growth, in which individual cells start to acquire invasive potential. From this point on the melanoma is capable of spreading. The Breslow's depth of the lesion is usually less than , while the Clark level is usually 2.\n\nThe vertical growth phase (VGP) following is the invasive melanoma. The tumor becomes able to grow into the surrounding tissue and can spread around the body through blood or lymph vessels. The tumor thickness is usually more than , and the tumor involves the deeper parts of the dermis.\n\nThe host elicits an immunological reaction against the tumor during the VGP, which is judged by the presence and activity of the tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). These cells sometimes completely destroy the primary tumor; this is called regression, which is the latest stage of development. In certain cases, the primary tumor is completely destroyed and only the metastatic tumor is discovered. About 40% of human melanomas contain activating mutations affecting the structure of the B-Raf protein, resulting in constitutive signaling through the Raf to MAP kinase pathway.\n\nIn general, cancers are caused by damage to DNA. UVA light mainly causes thymine-thymine dimers. UVA also produces reactive oxygen species and these inflict other DNA damage, primarily single-strand breaks, oxidized pyrimidines and the oxidized purine 8-oxoguanine (a mutagenic DNA change) at 1/10th, 1/10th and 1/3rd the frequencies of UVA-induced thymine-thymine dimers, respectively.\n\nIf unrepaired, CPD photoproducts can lead to mutations by inaccurate translesion synthesis during DNA replication or repair. The most frequent mutations due to inaccurate synthesis past CPDs are cytosine to thymine (C>T) or CC>TT transition mutations. These are commonly referred to as UV fingerprint mutations, as they are the most specific mutation caused by UV, being frequently found in sun-exposed skin but rarely found in internal organs. Errors in DNA repair of UV photoproducts, or inaccurate synthesis past these photoproducts, can also lead to deletions, insertions and chromosomal translocations.\n\nThe entire genomes of 25 melanomas were sequenced. On average, about 80,000 mutated bases (mostly C>T transitions) and about 100 structural rearragements were found per melanoma genome. This is much higher than the approximately 70 mutations across generations (parent to child). Among the 25 melanomas, about 6,000 protein-coding genes had missense, nonsense or splice site mutations. The transcriptomes of over 100 melanomas has also been sequenced and analyzed. Almost 70% of all human protein coding genes are expressed in melanoma. Most of these genes are also expressed in other normal and cancer tissues, with some 200 genes showing a more specific expression pattern in melanoma compared to other forms of cancer. Examples of melanoma specific genes are tyrosinase, MLANA and PMEL.\n\nUV radiation causes damage to the DNA of cells, typically thymine dimerization, which when unrepaired can create mutations in the cell's genes. When the cell divides, these mutations are propagated to new generations of cells. If the mutations occur in protooncogenes or tumor suppressor genes, the rate of mitosis in the mutation-bearing cells can become uncontrolled, leading to the formation of a tumor. Data from patients suggest that aberrant levels of activating transcription factor in the nucleus of melanoma cells are associated with increased metastatic activity of melanoma cells; studies from mice on skin cancer tend to confirm a role for activating transcription factor-2 in cancer progression.\n\nCancer stem cells may also be involved.\n\nVisual inspection is the most common diagnostic technique. Moles that are irregular in color or shape are typically treated as candidates. To detect melanomas (and increase survival rates), it is recommended to learn to recognize them (see \"ABCDE\" mnemonic below), to regularly examine moles for changes (shape, size, color, itching or bleeding) and to consult a qualified physician when a candidate appears.\n\nHowever, many melanomas present as lesions smaller than 6 mm in diameter; and all melanomas are malignant when they first appear as a small dot. Physicians typically examine all moles, including those less than 6 mm in diameter. Seborrheic keratosis may meet some or all of the ABCD criteria, and can lead to false alarms. Doctors can generally distinguish seborrheic keratosis from melanoma upon examination, or with dermatoscopy. \n\nSome advocate replacing enlarging with evolution. Certainly moles that change and evolve will be a concern. Alternatively, some practitioners prefer elevation. Elevation can help identify a melanoma, but lack of elevation does not mean that the lesion is not a melanoma. Most melanomas in the US are detected before they become elevated. By the time elevation is visible, they may have progressed to the more dangerous invasive stage.\n\nA recent and novel method is the \"ugly duckling sign\". It is simple, easy to teach, and highly effective. Correlation of common lesion characteristics is made. Lesions that greatly deviate from the common characteristics are labeled an \"Ugly Duckling\", and a further professional exam is required. The \"Little Red Riding Hood\" sign suggests that individuals with fair skin and light-colored hair might have difficult-to-diagnose amelanotic melanomas. Extra care is required when examining such individuals, as they might have multiple melanomas and severely dysplastic nevi. A dermatoscope must be used to detect \"ugly ducklings\", as many melanomas in these individuals resemble non-melanomas or are considered to be \"wolves in sheep's clothing\". These fair-skinned individuals often have lightly pigmented or amelanotic melanomas that do not present easy-to-observe color changes and variations. Their borders are often indistinct, complicating visual identification without a dermatoscope.\n\nAmelanotic melanomas and melanomas arising in fair-skinned individuals are very difficult to detect, as they fail to show many of the characteristics in the ABCD rule, break the \"Ugly Duckling\" sign and are hard to distinguish from acne scarring, insect bites, dermatofibromas, or lentigines.\n\nFollowing a visual examination and a dermatoscopic exam, or \"in vivo\" diagnostic tools such as a confocal microscope, the doctor may biopsy the suspicious mole. A skin biopsy performed under local anesthesia is often required to assist in making or confirming the diagnosis and in defining severity. Elliptical excisional biopsies may remove the tumor, followed by histological analysis and Breslow scoring. Incisional biopsies such as punch biopsies are usually contraindicated in suspected melanomas, because of the possibility of sampling error or local implantation causing misestimation of tumour thickness. However, fears that such biopsies may increase the risk of metastatic disease seem unfounded.\n\nTotal body photography, which involves photographic documentation of as much body surface as possible, is often used during follow-up for high-risk patients. The technique has been reported to enable early detection and provides a cost-effective approach (with any digital camera), but its efficacy has been questioned due to its inability to detect macroscopic changes. The diagnosis method should be used in conjunction with (and not as a replacement for) dermoscopic imaging, with a combination of both methods appearing to give extremely high rates of detection.\n\nMelanoma is divided into the following types:\n\n\nSee also:\n\n\nLactate dehydrogenase (LDH) tests are often used to screen for metastases, although many patients with metastases (even end-stage) have a normal LDH; extraordinarily high LDH often indicates metastatic spread of the disease to the liver.\n\nIt is common for patients diagnosed with melanoma to have chest X-rays and an LDH test, and in some cases CT, MRI, PET and/or PET/CT scans. Although controversial, sentinel lymph node biopsies and examination of the lymph nodes are also performed in patients to assess spread to the lymph nodes. A diagnosis of melanoma is supported by the presence of the S-100 protein marker.\n\nHMB-45 is a monoclonal antibody that reacts against an antigen present in melanocytic tumors such as melanomas. It is used in anatomic pathology as a marker for such tumors. The antibody was generated to an extract of melanoma. It reacts positively against melanocytic tumors but not other tumors, thus demonstrating specificity and sensitivity. The antibody also reacts positively against junctional nevus cells but not intradermal nevi, and against fetal melanocytes but not normal adult melanocytes.\n\nHMB-45 is nonreactive with almost all non-melanoma human malignancies, with the exception of rare tumors showing evidence of melanogenesis (e.g., pigmented schwannoma, clear cell sarcoma) or tumors associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (angiomyolipoma and lymphangiomyoma).\n\n\"Further context on cancer staging is available at TNM.\"\n\nAlso of importance are the \"Clark level\" and \"Breslow's depth\", which refer to the microscopic depth of tumor invasion.\n\nMelanoma stages:\n5 year survival rates:\n\nStage 0: Melanoma \"in situ\" (Clark Level I), 99.9% survival\n\nStage I / II: Invasive melanoma, 89–95% survival\nStage II: High risk melanoma, 45–79% survival\n\nStage III: Regional metastasis, 24–70% survival\n\nStage IV: Distant metastasis, 7–19% survival\n\n\"Based upon AJCC five-year survival from initial melanoma diagnosis with proper treatment.\"\n\nMinimizing exposure to sources of ultraviolet radiation (the sun and sunbeds), following sun protection measures and wearing sun protective clothing (long-sleeved shirts, long trousers, and broad-brimmed hats) can offer protection.\n\nUsing artificial light for tanning was once believed to help prevent skin cancers, but it can actually lead to an increased incidence of melanomas.\n\nUV nail lamps, which are used in nail salons to dry nail polish, are another common and widespread source of UV radiation that could be avoided. Although the risk of developing skin cancer through UV nail lamp use is low, it is still recommended to wear fingerless gloves and/or apply SPF 30 or greater sunscreen to the hands before using a UV nail lamp.\n\nThe body uses UV light to generate vitamin D so there is a need to balance getting enough sunlight to maintain healthy vitamin D levels and reducing the risk of melanoma; it takes around a half hour of sunlight for the body to generate its vitamin D for the day and this is about the same amount of time it takes for fair-skinned people to get a sunburn. Exposure to sunlight can be intermittent instead of all at one time.\n\nSunscreen appears to be effective in preventing melanoma. In the past, use of sunscreens with a sun protection factor (SPF) rating of 50 or higher on exposed areas were recommended; as older sunscreens more effectively blocked UVA with higher SPF. Currently, newer sunscreen ingredients (avobenzone, zinc oxide, and titanium dioxide) effectively block both UVA and UVB even at lower SPFs. Sunscreen also protects against squamous cell carcinoma, another skin cancer.\n\nConcerns have been raised that sunscreen might create a false sense of security against sun damage.\n\nA 2005 review found tentative evidence that statin and fibrate medication may decrease the risk of melanoma. A 2006 review however did not support any benefit.\n\nConfirmation of the clinical diagnosis is done with a skin biopsy. This is usually followed up with a wider excision of the scar or tumor. Depending on the stage, a sentinel lymph node biopsy may be performed. Controversy exists around trial evidence for sentinel lymph node biopsy; with unclear evidence of benefit as of 2015. Treatment of advanced malignant melanoma is performed from a multidisciplinary approach.\n\nExcisional biopsies may remove the tumor, but further surgery is often necessary to reduce the risk of recurrence. Complete surgical excision with adequate surgical margins and assessment for the presence of detectable metastatic disease along with short- and long-term followup is standard. Often this is done by a wide local excision (WLE) with margins. Melanoma-in-situ and lentigo malignas are treated with narrower surgical margins, usually . Many surgeons consider the standard of care for standard excision of melanoma-in-situ, but margin might be acceptable for margin controlled surgery (Mohs surgery, or the double-bladed technique with margin control). The wide excision aims to reduce the rate of tumor recurrence at the site of the original lesion. This is a common pattern of treatment failure in melanoma. Considerable research has aimed to elucidate appropriate margins for excision with a general trend toward less aggressive treatment during the last decades. A 2009 meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials found a small difference in survival rates favoring wide excision of primary cutaneous melanomas, but these results were not statistically significant.\n\nMohs surgery has been reported with cure rate as low as 77% and as high as 98.0% for melanoma-in-situ. CCPDMA and the \"double scalpel\" peripheral margin controlled surgery is equivalent to Mohs surgery in effectiveness on this \"intra-epithelial\" type of melanoma.\n\nMelanomas that spread usually do so to the lymph nodes in the area of the tumor before spreading elsewhere. Attempts to improve survival by removing lymph nodes surgically (lymphadenectomy) were associated with many complications, but no overall survival benefit. Recently, the technique of sentinel lymph node biopsy has been developed to reduce the complications of lymph node surgery while allowing assessment of the involvement of nodes with tumor.\n\nBiopsy of sentinel lymph nodes is a widely used procedure when treating cutaneous melanoma.\n\nNeither sentinel lymph node biopsy nor other diagnostic tests should be performed to evaluate early, thin melanoma, including melanoma in situ, T1a melanoma or T1b melanoma ≤ 0.5mm. People with these conditions are unlikely to have the cancer spread to their lymph nodes or anywhere else and already have a 97% 5-year survival rate. Because of these things, sentinel lymph node biopsy is unnecessary health care for them. Furthermore, baseline blood tests and radiographic studies should not be performed only based on identifying this kind of melanoma, as there are more accurate tests for detecting cancer and these tests have high false-positive rates. To potentially correct false positives, gene expression profiling may be used as auxiliary testing for ambiguous and small lesions.\n\nSentinel lymph node biopsy is often performed, especially for T1b/T2+ tumors, mucosal tumors, ocular melanoma and tumors of the limbs. A process called lymphoscintigraphy is performed in which a radioactive tracer is injected at the tumor site to localize the sentinel node(s). Further precision is provided using a blue tracer dye, and surgery is performed to biopsy the node(s). Routine hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and immunoperoxidase staining will be adequate to rule out node involvement. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests on nodes, usually performed to test for entry into clinical trials, now demonstrate that many patients with a negative sentinel lymph node actually had a small number of positive cells in their nodes. Alternatively, a fine-needle aspiration biopsy may be performed and is often used to test masses.\n\nIf a lymph node is positive, depending on the extent of lymph node spread, a radical lymph node dissection will often be performed. If the disease is completely resected, the patient will be considered for adjuvant therapy.\nExcisional skin biopsy is the management of choice. Here, the suspect lesion is totally removed with an adequate (but minimal, usually 1 or 2 mm) ellipse of surrounding skin and tissue. To avoid disruption of the local lymphatic drainage, the preferred surgical margin for the initial biopsy should be narrow (1 mm). The biopsy should include the epidermal, dermal, and subcutaneous layers of the skin. This enables the histopathologist to determine the thickness of the melanoma by microscopic examination. This is described by Breslow's thickness (measured in millimeters). However, for large lesions, such as suspected lentigo maligna, or for lesions in surgically difficult areas (face, toes, fingers, eyelids), a small punch biopsy in representative areas will give adequate information and will not disrupt the final staging or depth determination. In no circumstances should the initial biopsy include the final surgical margin (0.5 cm, 1.0 cm, or 2 cm), as a misdiagnosis can result in excessive scarring and morbidity from the procedure. A large initial excision will disrupt the local lymphatic drainage and can affect further lymphangiogram-directed lymphnode dissection. A small punch biopsy can be used at any time where for logistical and personal reasons a patient refuses more invasive excisional biopsy. Small punch biopsies are minimally invasive and heal quickly, usually without noticeable scarring.\n\nHigh-risk melanomas may require adjuvant treatment, although attitudes to this vary in different countries. In the United States, most patients in otherwise good health will begin up to a year of high-dose interferon treatment, which has severe side effects, but may improve the patient's prognosis slightly. However, the British Association of Dermatologists guidelines on melanoma state that interferon is not recommended as a standard adjuvant treatment for melanoma. A 2013 meta-analysis suggested that the addition of interferon alpha increased disease-free and overall survival for people with AJCC TNM stage II-III cutaneous melanoma. A 2011 meta-analysis showed that interferon could lengthen the time before a melanoma comes back but increased survival by only 3% at 5 years. The unpleasant side effects also greatly decrease quality of life.\n\nIn Europe, interferon is usually not used outside the scope of clinical trials.\n\nMetastatic melanomas can be detected by X-rays, CT scans, MRIs, PET and PET/CTs, ultrasound, LDH testing and photoacoustic detection.\n\nChemotherapy drugs such as Dacarbazine have been the backbone of metastatic melanoma treatment since FDA approval in 1975 however, its efficacy in terms of survival has never been proven in an RCT.\n\nIn people with locally advanced cutaneous malignancies and sarcoma, isolated limb infusion (ILI) has been found to be a minimally invasive and well-tolerated procedure for delivering regional chemotherapy.\n\nMelanoma cells have mutations that allow them to survive and grow indefinitely in the body. Small-molecule targeted therapies work by blocking the genes involved in pathways for tumor proliferation and survival. The main treatments are BRAF, C-Kit and NRAS inhibitors. These inhibitors work to inhibit the downstream pathways involved in cell proliferation and tumour development due to specific gene mutations. People can be treated with small-molecule targeted inhibitors if they are positive for the specific mutation. BRAF inhibitors, such as vemurafenib and dabrafenib and a MEK inhibitor trametinib are the most effective, approved treatments for BRAF positive melanoma. Melanoma tumors can develop resistance during therapy which can make therapy no longer effective, but combining the use of BRAF and MEK inhibitors may create a fast and lasting melanoma therapy response.\n\nA number of treatments improve survival over traditional chemotherapy. Biochemotherapy (chemotherapy with cytokines IL-2 and IFN-α) combined with BRAF inhibitors improved survival for people with BRAF positive melanoma. Biochemotherapy alone did not improve overall survival and had higher toxicity than chemotherapy. Combining multiple chemotherapy agents (polychemotherapy) did not improve survival over monochemotherapy.\n\nImmunotherapy is aimed at stimulating the person’s immune system against the tumor, by enhancing the body's own ability to recognize and kill cancer cells.   The current approach to treating melanoma with immunotherapy includes three broad categories of treatments including cytokines, immune check point inhibitors, and adoptive cell transfer. These treatment options are most often used in people with metastatic melanoma and significantly improves overall survival. However, these treatments are often costly. For example, one immune check point inhibitor treatment, pembrolizumab, costs $10,000 to $12,000 USD for a single dose administered every 3 weeks.\n\nCytokine therapies used for melanoma include IFN-a and IL-2. IL-2 (Proleukin) was the first new therapy approved (1990 Europe, 1992 USA) for the treatment of metastatic melanoma in 20 years. IL-2 may offer the possibility of a complete and long-lasting remission in this disease in a small percentage of people with melanoma. Intralesional IL-2 for in-transit metastases has a high complete response rate ranging from 40 to 100%. Similarly, IFN-a has shown only modest survival benefits and high toxicity, limiting its use as a stand alone therapy.\n\nImmune check point inhibitors include anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies (ipilimumab and tremelimumab), toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists, CD40 agonists, anti-PD-1 (pembrolizumab, pidilizumab and nivolumab) and PDL-1 antibodies.  Evidence suggests that anti-PD-1 antibodies are more effective than anti-CTLA4 antibodies with less systemic toxicity. A therapeutic approach that includes the combination of different therapies improves overall survival and progression-free survival compared to treatment with the separate immunotherapy drugs alone. \n\nOngoing research is looking at treatment by adoptive cell transfer. Adoptive cell transfer refers to the application of pre-stimulated, modified T cells or dendritic cells and is presently used to minimize complications from graft-versus-host disease.\n\nStandard excision is still being done by most surgeons. Unfortunately, the recurrence rate is exceedingly high (up to 50%). This is due to the ill-defined visible surgical margin, and the facial location of the lesions (often forcing the surgeon to use a narrow surgical margin). The narrow surgical margin used, combined with the limitation of the standard \"bread-loafing\" technique of fixed tissue histology – result in a high \"false negative\" error rate, and frequent recurrences. Margin control (peripheral margins) is necessary to eliminate the false negative errors. If bread loafing is used, distances from sections should approach 0.1 mm to assure that the method approaches complete margin control. A meta-analysis of the literature in 2014 found no randomized controlled trials of surgical interventions to treat lentigo maligna or melanoma in-situ, even though surgery is the most widely used treatment.\n\nMohs surgery has been done with cure rate reported to be as low as 77%, and as high as 95% by another author. The \"double scalpel\" peripheral margin controlled excision method approximates the Mohs method in margin control, but requires a pathologist intimately familiar with the complexity of managing the vertical margin on the thin peripheral sections and staining methods.\n\nSome melanocytic nevi, and melanoma-in-situ (lentigo maligna) have resolved with an experimental treatment, imiquimod (Aldara) topical cream, an immune enhancing agent. Some dermasurgeons are combining the 2 methods: surgically excising the cancer and then treating the area with Aldara cream postoperatively for three months. While some studies have suggested the adjuvant use of topical tazarotene, the current evidence is insufficient to recommend it and suggests that it increases topical inflammation, leading to lower patient compliance.\n\nRadiation therapy is often used after surgical resection for patients with locally or regionally advanced melanoma or for patients with unresectable distant metastases. Kilovoltage x-ray beams are often used for these treatments and have the property of the maximum radiation dose occurring close to the skin surface. It may reduce the rate of local recurrence but does not prolong survival. Radioimmunotherapy of metastatic melanoma is currently under investigation.\nRadiotherapy has a role in the palliation of metastatic melanoma.\n\nFeatures that affect prognosis are tumor thickness in millimeters (Breslow's depth), depth related to skin structures (Clark level), type of melanoma, presence of ulceration, presence of lymphatic/perineural invasion, presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (if present, prognosis is better), location of lesion, presence of satellite lesions, and presence of regional or distant metastasis. Certain types of melanoma have worse prognoses but this is explained by their thickness. Less invasive melanomas even with lymph node metastases carry a better prognosis than deep melanomas without regional metastasis at time of staging. Local recurrences tend to behave similarly to a primary unless they are at the site of a wide local excision (as opposed to a staged excision or punch/shave excision) since these recurrences tend to indicate lymphatic invasion.\n\nWhen melanomas have spread to the lymph nodes, one of the most important factors is the number of nodes with malignancy. Extent of malignancy within a node is also important; micrometastases in which malignancy is only microscopic have a more favorable prognosis than macrometastases. In some cases micrometastases may only be detected by special staining, and if malignancy is only detectable by a rarely employed test known as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), the prognosis is better. Macrometastases in which malignancy is clinically apparent (in some cases cancer completely replaces a node) have a far worse prognosis, and if nodes are matted or if there is extracapsular extension, the prognosis is worse still. In addition to these variables, expression levels and copy number variations of a number of relevant genes may be used to support assessment of malignant melanoma prognosis.\n\nWhen there is distant metastasis, the cancer is generally considered incurable. The five-year survival rate is less than 10%. The median survival is 6–12 months. Treatment is palliative, focusing on life extension and quality of life. In some cases, patients may live many months or even years with metastatic melanoma (depending on the aggressiveness of the treatment). Metastases to skin and lungs have a better prognosis. Metastases to brain, bone and liver are associated with a worse prognosis. Survival is better with metastasis in which the location of the primary tumor is unknown.\n\nThere is not enough definitive evidence to adequately stage, and thus give a prognosis for, ocular melanoma and melanoma of soft parts, or mucosal melanoma (e.g. rectal melanoma), although these tend to metastasize more easily. Even though regression may increase survival, when a melanoma has regressed, it is impossible to know its original size and thus the original tumor is often worse than a pathology report might indicate.\n\nAbout 200 genes are prognostic in melanoma, with both unfavorable genes where high expression is correlated to poor survival and favorable genes where high expression is associated with longer survival times. Examples of unfavorable genes are MCM6 and TIMELESS and an example of a favorable gene is WIPI1.\n\nGlobally, in 2012, melanoma occurred in 232,000 people and resulted in 55,000 deaths. Australia and New Zealand have the highest rates of melanoma in the world. It has become more common in the last 20 years in areas that are mostly Caucasian.\n\nThe rate of melanoma has increased in the recent years, but it is not clear to what extent changes in behavior, in the environment, or in early detection are involved.\n\nAustralia has a very high – and increasing – rate of melanoma. In 2012, deaths from melanoma occurred in 7.3–9.8 per 100,000 population. In Australia, melanoma is the third most common cancer in either sex; indeed, its incidence is higher than for lung cancer, although the latter accounts for more deaths. It is estimated that in 2012, more than 12,000 Australians were diagnosed with melanoma: given Australia's modest population, this is better expressed as 59.6 new cases per 100,000 population per year; >1 in 10 of all new cancer cases were melanomas. Melanoma incidence in Australia is matter of significance, for the following reasons: \n\nIn the United States about 9,000 people die from melanoma a year. In 2011 it affected 19.7 per 100,000, and resulted in death in 2.7 per 100,000.\n\nIn 2013:\nThe American Cancer Society’s estimates for melanoma incidence in the United States for 2017 are:\nMelanoma is more than 20 times more common in whites than in African Americans. Overall, the lifetime risk of getting melanoma is about 2.5% (1 in 40) for whites, 0.1% (1 in 1,000) for African Americans, and 0.5% (1 in 200) for Hispanics.\n\nThe risk of melanoma increases as people age. The average age of people when the disease is diagnosed is 63.\n\nAlthough melanoma is not a new disease, evidence for its occurrence in antiquity is rather scarce. However, one example lies in a 1960s examination of nine Peruvian mummies, radiocarbon dated to be approximately 2400 years old, which showed apparent signs of melanoma: melanotic masses in the skin and diffuse metastases to the bones.\n\nJohn Hunter is reported to be the first to operate on metastatic melanoma in 1787. Although not knowing precisely what it was, he described it as a \"cancerous fungous excrescence\". The excised tumor was preserved in the Hunterian Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. It was not until 1968 that microscopic examination of the specimen revealed it to be an example of metastatic melanoma.\n\nThe French physician René Laennec was the first to describe melanoma as a disease entity. His report was initially presented during a lecture for the Faculté de Médecine de Paris in 1804 and then published as a bulletin in 1806.\nThe first English language report of melanoma was presented by an English general practitioner from Stourbridge, William Norris in 1820. In his later work in 1857 he remarked that there is a familial predisposition for development of melanoma (\"Eight Cases of Melanosis with Pathological and Therapeutical Remarks on That Disease\"). Norris was also a pioneer in suggesting a link between nevi and melanoma and the possibility of a relationship between melanoma and environmental exposures, by observing that most of his patients had pale complexions. He also described that melanomas could be amelanotic and later showed the metastatic nature of melanoma by observing that they can disseminate to other visceral organs.\n\nThe first formal acknowledgment of advanced melanoma as untreatable came from Samuel Cooper in 1840. He stated that the only chance for a cure depends upon the early removal of the disease (i.e., early excision of the malignant mole) ...'\n\nMore than one and a half centuries later this situation remains largely unchanged.\n\nThe word \"melanoma\" came to English from 19th-century New Latin and uses combining forms derived from ancient Greek roots: \"melano-\" (denoting melanin) + \"-oma\" (denoting a tissue mass and especially a neoplasm), in turn from Greek μέλας \"melas\", \"dark\", and -ωμα \"oma\", \"process\". The word \"melanoma\" has a long history of being used in a broader sense to refer to any melanocytic tumor, benign or malignant but usually malignant, but today the narrower sense referring only to malignant types has become so dominant that benign tumors are usually not called melanomas anymore and the word \"melanoma\" is now usually taken to mean malignant melanoma unless otherwise specified. Terms such as \"benign melanocytic tumor\" unequivocally label the benign types, and modern histopathologic tumor classifications used in medicine do not use the word for benign tumors.\n\nPharmacotherapy research for unresectable or metastatic malignant melanoma is ongoing.\n\nIn clinical research setting other therapies, such as adoptive cell therapy or gene therapy, are being tested.\n\nTwo kinds of experimental treatments developed at the National Cancer Institute (NCI), have been used in metastatic melanoma with tentative success.\n\nThe first treatment involves adoptive cell therapy (ACT) using TILs immune cells (tumor infiltrating lymphocytes) isolated from a person's own melanoma tumor. These cells are grown in large numbers in a laboratory and returned to the patient after a treatment that temporarily reduces normal T cells in the patient's body. TIL therapy following lymphodepletion can result in durable complete response in a variety of setups.\n\nThe second treatment, adoptive transfer of genetically altered autologous lymphocytes, depends on delivering genes that encode so called T cell receptors (TCRs), into patient's lymphocytes. After that manipulation lymphocytes recognize and bind to certain molecules found on the surface of melanoma cells and kill them.\n\nA cancer vaccine showed modest benefit in late-stage testing in 2009 against melanoma.\n\nAbout 60% of melanomas contain a mutation in the B-Raf gene. Early clinical trials suggested that B-Raf inhibitors including Plexxicon's vemurafenib could lead to substantial tumor regression in a majority of patients if their tumor contain the B-Raf mutation. In June 2011, a large clinical trial confirmed the positive findings from those earlier trials.\n\nIn August 2011 Vemurafenib received FDA approval for the treatment of late-stage melanoma. In May 2013 the US FDA approved dabrafenib as a single agent treatment for patients with BRAF V600E mutation-positive advanced melanoma.\n\nSome researchers believe that combination therapies that simultaneously block multiple pathways may improve efficacy by making it more difficult for the tumor cells to mutate before being destroyed. In October 2012 a study reported that combining Dabrafenib with a MEK inhibitor trametinib led to even better outcomes. Compared to Dabrafenib alone, progression-free survival was increased to 41% from 9%, and the median progression-free survival increased to 9.4 months versus 5.8 months. Some side effects were, however, increased in the combined study.\nIn January 2014, the FDA approved the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib for the treatment of patients with BRAF V600E/K-mutant metastatic melanoma.\n\nEventual resistance to BRAF and MEK inhibitors may be due to a cell surface protein known as EphA2 which is now being investigated.\n\nAt the American Society of Clinical Oncology Conference in June 2010, the Bristol-Myers Squibb pharmaceutical company reported the clinical findings of their drug ipilimumab. The study found an increase in median survival from 6.4 to 10 months in patients with advanced melanomas treated with the monoclonal ipilimumab, versus an experimental vaccine. It also found a one-year survival rate of 25% in the control group using the vaccine, 44% in the vaccine and ipilimumab group, and 46% in the group treated with ipilimumab alone. However, some have raised concerns about this study for its use of the unconventional control arm, rather than comparing the drug against a placebo or standard treatment. The criticism was that although Ipilimumab performed better than the vaccine, the vaccine has not been tested before and may be causing toxicity, making the drug appear better by comparison.\n\nIpilimumab was approved by the FDA in March 2011 to treat patients with late-stage melanoma that has spread or cannot be removed by surgery.\n\nIn June 2011, a clinical trial of ipilimumab plus dacarbazine combined this immune system booster with the standard chemotherapy drug that targets cell division. It showed an increase in median survival for these late stage patients to 11 months instead of the 9 months normally seen. Researchers were also hopeful that perhaps 10–20% of patients could live a long time. Some serious side-effects of revving up the immune system were seen in some patients. A course of treatment costs $120,000. The drug's brandname is Yervoy.\n\nAdvances in high resolution ultrasound scanning have enabled surveillance of metastatic burden to the sentinel lymph nodes. The Screening and Surveillance of Ultrasound in Melanoma trial (SUNMEL) is evaluating ultrasound as an alternative to invasive surgical methods.\n\nIn some countries oncolytic virotherapy methods are studied and used to treat melanoma. Oncolytic virotherapy is a promising branch of virotherapy, where oncolytic viruses are used to treat diseases; viruses can increase metabolism, reduce anti-tumor immunity and disorganize vasculature. Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) (which is a herpes simplex virus type 1–derived oncolytic immunotherapy), was shown to be useful against metastatic melanoma in 2015 with an increased survival of 4.4 months.\n"}
{"id": "53141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53141", "title": "Metempsychosis", "text": "Metempsychosis\n\nMetempsychosis () is a philosophical term in the Greek language referring to transmigration of the soul, especially its reincarnation after death. Generally, the term is derived from the context of ancient Greek philosophy, and has been recontextualised by modern philosophers such as Arthur Schopenhauer and Kurt Gödel; otherwise, the term \"transmigration\" is more appropriate. The word plays a prominent role in James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" and is also associated with Nietzsche. Another term sometimes used synonymously is palingenesis.\n\nIt is unclear how the doctrine of metempsychosis arose in Greece. It is easiest to assume that earlier ideas which had never been extinguished were utilized for religious and philosophic purposes. The Orphic religion, which held it, first appeared in Thrace upon the semi-barbarous north-eastern frontier. Orpheus, its legendary founder, is said to have taught that soul and body are united by a compact unequally binding on either; the soul is divine, immortal and aspires to freedom, while the body holds it in fetters as a prisoner. Death dissolves this compact, but only to re-imprison the liberated soul after a short time: for the wheel of birth revolves inexorably. Thus the soul continues its journey, alternating between a separate unrestrained existence and fresh reincarnation, round the wide circle of necessity, as the companion of many bodies of men and animals.\" To these unfortunate prisoners Orpheus proclaims the message of liberation, that they stand in need of the grace of redeeming gods and of Dionysus in particular, and calls them to turn to God by ascetic piety of life and self-purification: the purer their lives the higher will be their next reincarnation, until the soul has completed the spiral ascent of destiny to live for ever as a God from whom it comes. Such was the teaching of Orphism which appeared in Greece about the 6th century BC, organized itself into private and public mysteries at Eleusis and elsewhere, and produced a copious literature.\n\nThe earliest Greek thinker with whom metempsychosis is connected is Pherecydes of Syros; but Pythagoras, who is said to have been his pupil, is its first famous philosophic exponent. Pythagoras is not believed to have invented the doctrine or to have imported it from Egypt. Instead he made his reputation by bringing the Orphic doctrine from North-Eastern Hellas to Magna Graecia, and creating societies for its diffusion.\n\nThe real weight and importance of metempsychosis in Western tradition is due to its adoption by Plato. In the eschatological myth which closes the \"Republic\" he tells the myth how Er, the son of Armenius, miraculously returned to life on the twelfth day after death and recounted the secrets of the other world. After death, he said, he went with others to the place of Judgment and saw the souls returning from heaven, and proceeded with them to a place where they chose new lives, human and animal. He saw the soul of Orpheus changing into a swan, Thamyras becoming a nightingale, musical birds choosing to be men, the soul of Atalanta choosing the honours of an athlete. Men were seen passing into animals and wild and tame animals changing into each other. After their choice the souls drank of Lethe and then shot away like stars to their birth. There are myths and theories to the same effect in other dialogues, the Phaedrus, Meno, Phaedo, Timaeus and Laws. In Plato's view the number of souls was fixed; birth therefore is never the creation of a soul, but only a transmigration from one body to another. Plato's acceptance of the doctrine is characteristic of his sympathy with popular beliefs and desire to incorporate them in a purified form into his system. \nThe extent of Plato's belief in metempsychosis has been debated by some scholars in modern times. Marsilio Ficino (\"Platonic Theology\" 17.3–4), for one, argued that Plato's references to metempsychosis were intended allegorically.\n\nIn later Greek literature the doctrine appears from time to time; it is mentioned in a fragment of Menander (the Inspired Woman) and satirized by Lucian (Gallus 18 seq.). In Roman literature it is found as early as Ennius, who in his Calabrian home must have been familiar with the Greek teachings which had descended to his times from the cities of Magna Graecia. In a lost passage of his Annals, a Roman history in verse, Ennius told how he had seen Homer in a dream, who had assured him that the same soul which had animated both the poets had once belonged to a peacock. Persius in one of his satires (vi. 9) laughs at Ennius for this: it is referred to also by Lucretius (i. 124) and by Horace (Epist. II. i. 52). Virgil works the idea into his account of the Underworld in the sixth book of the Aeneid (vv. 724 sqq.). It persists in antiquity down to the latest classic thinkers, Plotinus and the other Neoplatonists.\n\nMetempsychosis was a part of the Neo-Manichaen dogma of the Albigenses around France in the 12th century.\n\nCreated in the early XVth century, the Rosicrucianist movement also conveyed an occult doctrine of metempsychosis.\n\n\"Metempsychosis\" is the title of a longer work by the metaphysical poet John Donne, written in 1601. The poem, also known as the \"Infinitati Sacrum\", consists of two parts, the \"Epistle\" and \"The Progress of the Soule\". In the first line of the latter part, Donne writes that he \"sing[s] of the progresse of a deathlesse soule\".\n\nMetempsychosis is a prominent theme in Edgar Allan Poe's 1832 short story \"Metzengerstein\". Poe returns to metempsychosis again in \"Morella\" (1835) and \"The Oval Portrait\" (1842).\n\nMetempsychosis is referred to prominently in the concluding paragraph of Chapter 98, \"Stowing Down and Clearing Up\", of Herman Melville's \"Moby-Dick\".\n\nMetempsychosis is mentioned as the religion of choice by the minor character Princess Darya Alexandrovna Oblonsky in Leo Tolstoy’s \"Anna Karenina\".\n\nHerbert Giles uses the term metempsychosis in his translation of the butterfly dream from the \"Zhuangzi\" (). The use of this term is contested by Hans Georg Möller (), though, who claims that a better translation is “the changing of things”.\n\nMetempsychosis is a recurring theme in James Joyce's modernist novel \"Ulysses\" (1922). In Joycean fashion, the word famously appears in Leopold Bloom's inner monologue, recalling how his wife, Molly Bloom, apparently mispronounced it earlier that day as \"met him pike hoses.\"\n\nIn Thomas Pynchon's 1963 premiere novel \"V.\", metempsychosis is mentioned in reference to the book \"The Search for Bridey Murphy\" by Morey Bernstein, and also later in chapter eight.\n\nMetempsychosis is referenced in Don DeLillo's 1982 novel \"The Names.\"\n\nIn David Foster Wallace's 1996 novel \"Infinite Jest\", the name of the character Madame Psychosis is an intentional malapropism of metempsychosis.\n\nGuy de Maupassant's story \"Le docteur Héraclius Gloss\" (1875) is a fable about metempsychosis.\n\nIn Marcel Proust's famous first paragraph from \"In Search of Lost Time\", the narrator compares his separation from the subject of a book to the process of metempsychosis.\n\nIn Robert Montgomery Bird's fiction novel \"Sheppard Lee Written by Himself\" (1836) the protagonist is a serial identity thief by way of metempsychosis.\n\nThe eponymous Archy of Don Marquis's \"archy and mehitabel\" poems is a cockroach with the transmigrated soul of a human vers libre poet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21440", "title": "Neutral monism", "text": "Neutral monism\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, neutral monism is the view that the mental and the physical are two ways of organizing or describing the same elements, which are themselves \"neutral\", that is, neither physical nor mental. This view denies that the mental and the physical are two fundamentally different things. Rather, neutral monism claims the universe consists of only one kind of stuff, in the form of neutral elements that are in themselves neither mental nor physical.\n\nNeutral monism about the mind–body relationship is described by C. D. Broad in one of his earlier works, \"The Mind and Its Place in Nature\". Broad's list of possible views about the mind-body problem, which became known simply as \"Broad's famous list of 1925\" (see chapter XIV of'), states the basis of what this theory had been and was to become. There are few self-proclaimed neutral monists; most of the philosophers who are seen to have this view were classified after their deaths. Some examples of this are Baruch Spinoza, David Hume, Ernst Mach, Richard Avenarius, Kenneth Sayre and Joseph Petzoldt and Jonathan Westphal.\n\nEarlier, William James had propounded the notion in his essay \"Does Consciousness Exist?\" in 1904 (reprinted in \"Essays in Radical Empiricism\" in 1912). Whately Carington in his book \"Matter, Mind, and Meaning\" (1949) advocated a form of neutral monism. He held that mind and matter both consist of the same kind of components known as \"cognita\" or sense data.\n\nAccording to Stephen Stich and Ted Warfield, neutral monism has not been a popular view in philosophy as it is difficult to develop or understand the nature of the neutral elements.\n\nIn 1921, Bertrand Russell adopted a similar position to that of William James. Russell quotes from James's essay \"Does 'consciousness' exist?\" as follows:\n\nRussell summarizes this notion as follows:\n\nRussell observes that the same view of \"consciousness\" is set forth in James's succeeding essay, \"A World of Pure Experience\" (\"ib.\", pp. 39–91).\nIn addition to the role of James, Russell observes the role of two American Realists:\n\nRussell goes on to agree with James and in part with the \"American realists\": \n\nDavid Chalmers considers the consciousness of rocks as well as thermostats, although he eschews the notion that rocks are conscious:\nIn his 2002 \"Consciousness and its Place in Nature\", Chalmers carefully considers neutral monism and panpsychism, variants of what he calls \"Type-F Monism\". He admits that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5601277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5601277", "title": "Owen Davis Jr.", "text": "Owen Davis Jr.\n\nOwen Gould Davis Jr. (October 6, 1907, New York, New York – May 21, 1949, Long Island Sound, New York) was an American actor. \n\nBorn in 1907, he was the son of Pulitzer Prize for Drama-winning dramatist Owen Davis Sr. \n\nEducated at Yale, he became captain of the boxing team and one of the leading students in the dramatic school. \n\nHe began his screen career with Walter Huston, with whom he later toured on the stage. \n\nAfter much more stage experience he went on to make pictures. \n\nHe made his Broadway debut in \"Carry On\", a play written by his father.\n\nHe served in the United States Army during World War II, after which he became a television producer.\n\nHe was also the husband of Laina Muroni.\n\nHe died on May 21, 1949, drowned while sailing on Long Island Sound.\n\n"}
{"id": "49633163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49633163", "title": "P-Aminobenzoyl-glutamate transporter", "text": "P-Aminobenzoyl-glutamate transporter\n\nThe \"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutamate transporter (AbgT) family (TC# 2.A.68) is a family of transporter proteins belonging to the ion transporter (IT) superfamily. The AbgT family consists of the AbgT (YdaH; TC# 2.A.68.1.1) protein of \"E. coli\" and the MtrF drug exporter (TC# 2.A.68.1.2) of \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\". The former protein is apparently cryptic in wild-type cells, but when expressed on a high copy number plasmid, or when expressed at higher levels due to mutation, it appeared to allow uptake (\"K\" = 123 nM; see Michaelis–Menten kinetics) and subsequent utilization of \"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutamate as a source of \"p\"-aminobenzoate for \"p\"-aminobenzoate auxotrophs. \"p\"-Aminobenzoate is a constituent of and a precursor for the biosynthesis of folic acid. MtrF was annotated as a putative drug efflux pump.\n\nAbgT is 510 amino acyl residues long and has 12-13 putative transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). MtrF is 522 aas long and has 11 or 12 putative TMSs. The 3-d structures of MtrF and a YdaH homologue have been solved, and functional studies show that it is a drug exporter. The 3-d structure shows that it has 9 TMSs with hairpin entry loops.\n\nCrystal Structures:\n\nThe \"abgT\" gene is preceded by two genes, \"abgA\" and \"abgB,\" which code for homologous amino acyl amino hydrolases and hydrolyze \"p\"-aminobenzoyl glutamate to \"p\"-aminobenzoate and glutamate. Because of the structural similarity of \"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutatmate to peptides, and the enzymatic activities of the \"abgA\" and \"abgB\" gene products, it has been suggested that AbgT is also a peptide transporter. Demonstration of an energy requirement suggested an H-dependent mechanism. Expression of these genes is regulated by AbgR and an unknown effector.\n\nAs noted above, the AbgT family of transporters has been thought to contribute to bacterial folate biosynthesis by importing the catabolite \"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutamate for producing folate. Approximately 13,000 putative family members were identified in 2015. The X-ray structures of the full-length \"Alcanivorax borkumensis\" YdaH (AbgT) and \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" MtrF proteins. The structures revealed that these two transporters assemble as dimers with architectures distinct from all other families of transporters for which 3-d structures were available. Both YdaH and MtrF are bowl-shaped dimers with a solvent-filled basin extending from the cytoplasm halfway across the membrane bilayer. The protomers of YdaH and MtrF contain nine transmembrane helices and two hairpins which suggested a plausible pathway for substrate transport. A combination of the crystal structure, genetic analyses and substrate accumulation assays indicated that both YdaH and MtrF behave as exporters, capable of removing the folate metabolite \"p\"-aminobenzoic acid from bacterial cells. In fact, it was shown that both YdaH and MtrF participate as antibiotic efflux pumps, mediating bacterial resistance to sulfonamide antimetabolite drugs. Possibly, many AbgT-family transporters act as exporters, conferring resistance to sulfonamides.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction initially proposed for AbgT is:\"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutamate (out) + nH (out) → \"p\"-aminobenzoyl-glutamate (in) + nH (in)but the more recently proposed transport reaction is:Sulfonamide drugs (in) + H (out) → Sulfonamide drugs (out) + H (in)\n\n"}
{"id": "31210357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31210357", "title": "Paul Knapman", "text": "Paul Knapman\n\nPaul Knapman DL was Her Majesty’s Coroner for Westminster (and Inner West London), from 1980 to 2011 (and Deputy Coroner from 1975-1980). His responsibility for investigating sudden deaths as an independent judicial officer saw him preside over numerous notable cases.\n\nHe was made a Deputy Lieutenant of Greater London in 2008 and advanced to the representative Deputy Lieutenant for Westminster in 2013.\n\n\nAs coroner he dealt with approximately 85,000 deaths and 12,500 inquests (including about 500 murder/mansalughter cases). One of his last major cases (October 2010) was presiding over the inquest of the barrister Mark Saunders, controversially shot to death by Metropolitan Police on 6 May 2008. After the ruling of ‘lawful killing’ Knapman revealed that he would use his powers as coroner to highlight lessons that should be learned by the police for the future and would make copies of his recommendation available to Secretary of State for Justice, Kenneth Clarke.\n\nHe has an entry in Who's Who and Debrett's, the two-century-old guide to people of distinction and etiquette.\n\nAs the Deputy Coroner he was much involved with the preparation of the inquest into the death of Sandra Rivett, nanny to the children of Lord Lucan. He sat with the coroner during the inquest (16–19 November June 1975), when the jury returned the verdict that Lord Lucan should stand trial at The Old Bailey charged with the murder of Sandra Rivett. Lord Lucan had disappeared and has never been found.\n\nAs Deputy Coroner he was consulted and involved in all stages following the death of Georgi Markov, who died on 11 November 1978. Markov was a Bulgarian working for the BBC World Service and considered a thorn in the side of the Communist authorities. His cause of death was by a pellet probably containing ricin (which was never actually analysed). Although the press and others showed diagrams of the poison's administration by an umbrella, no umbrella was ever found.\n\nAt that time the US Embassy in Tehran was besieged by the Iranian Authorities with the American citizens working in the Embassy having been taken hostage. President Carter sanctioned a rescue by US forces, but the US helicopters unfortunately came down in the desert and the hostage rescue had to be abandoned. Subsequently, the Iranian Embassy in London was seized by six terrorists on 30 April, and they shot one hostage. The Home Secretary, William Whitelaw, handed control of the situation from the Metropolitan Police to the British Army.\n\nThen, it being a Bank holiday weekend, in the full blaze of publicity and live television, soldiers of the Special Air Service (SAS) successfully rescued the hostages on 5 May. At the subsequent inquest the jury learnt that during the rescue another hostage was killed by a terrorist and five terrorists were shot and killed by the SAS. One terrorist survived. At the inquest the jury unanimously returned a verdict of justifiable homicide concerning the death of the terrorists.\n\nOn 17 April in 1984 there was a protest demonstration outside the Libyan Embassy in St.James' Square, London. Shots were fired from the Embassy injuring demonstrators and killing WPC Yvonne Fletcher. At the inquest it was shown that the shots came from the first floor of the Embassy and the pathologist Dr. West opined that her fatal injury was consistent with this. The inquest jury concluded she was unlawfully killed.\n\nOn Monday 12 December 1988, just outside Clapham Junction railway station a crowded train from Basingstoke was shunted at speed from behind by a following train from Bournemouth, a third train from London on the adjacent line collided with the wreckage, a fourth train stopped in time. thirty-five people were killed.\n\nThe site of the crash and the dead were within the jurisdiction of the Coroner for Inner West London and the bodies were taken to an expanded mortuary at Westminster. All the inquests were opened and adjourned at Westminster Coroner's Court.\n\nThe inquests into all 35 people were subsequently held at a special court at Westminster Council House. It started with a very brief outline of the timings and mechanisms of the accident. Then subsequently the Coroner and jury heard the following evidence regarding each of the deceased: an outline of personal details, including character of each person provided by a relative; evidence of how precisely they were identified; an indication of where precisely they were at the time of the collision, assisted by visual aids; and a brief summary of injuries and the cause of death provided by the pathologist.\n\nThen, having heard the evidence on each of the 35 people, the Coroner announced he was adjourning the inquest for a Public Enquiry to be held by Anthony Hidden QC who had been appointed for that purpose by The Secretary of State for Transport under regulations of The Railways Act 1871.\n\nThe cause of the crash was found to be that a wiring fault in signalling mean that the signal would not show red even though the track circuit ahead was occupied by a train. Re-wiring had recently been performed on Clapham Junction A box, and redundant wires had not been cut back and insulated sufficiently causing a false feed. A number of recommendations were made. (Ref: Hidden 1989) Following a prosecution, British Rail were fined £250,000 for a breach of the Health & Safety at Work etc. Act. Knapman concluded it was not necessary to resume the inquests.\n\nOn 20 August 1989 the Marchioness Boat was struck by the Bowbelle on the River Thames in London. This fatal collision resulted in the drowning of 51 people.\n\nDr Paul Knapman was the coroner, Dr Dolman was deputising as Dr. Knapman was out of London at that time.\n\nHaving returned to London, although not specifically recalling it, Dr. Knapman said that had he been asked by the Metropolitan Police he would certainly have given consent for hands to be removed from the decomposed bodies. This was standard practice for all London coroners at the time for any bodies that were badly decomposed (especially by water). During an inquiry into Dr Knapman’s actions he stated the hands had been removed for identification purposes in an attempt to get identification of the victims to their families as soon as practically possible. However, subsequently it was determined that at least 12 of the victims who had their hands removed were simultaneously in the process of potential dental identification that might have resulted in identification sooner. Visual identification is not considered reliable in such circumstances and many errors have occurred in the past leading to greater distress.\n\nIn 1992 Dr Knapman refused to resume the inquest into the victims deaths adding that there had been four inquiries/court proceedings already. In January 1993, mothers of two of the victims, began legal action for judicial review of his decision.\n\nIn June 1994, after a judicial review, the Court of Appeal heard the appeal. Lord Justice Brown said... \"no-one should interpret this judgement as a condemnation of Dr. Knapman, almost without exception he handled the many difficulties he faced not merely with sensitivity but with an evident sympathy for the bereaved families. Understandably, and indeed justifiably riled by an unfair article in The Mail on Sunday he was guilty of but a single intemperate comment\" (See Reference 1) Lord Justice Farquharson said \"the various affidavits and other documents in these proceedings clearly demonstrate that the Coroner was most concerned about the welfare of the bereaved families and he repeatedly consulted them, indeed the lengths he went to showed that his actions went far beyond those normally expected of a Coroner.\" Sir Thomas Bingham, The Master of the Rolls said, \"I reach this decision with regret, the Coroner reacted to this horrific tragedy with energy and public spirit. He went to great lengths to treat the bereaved with sympathy and understanding...the issue for this court is however, the single limited question. Conscious though I am of the great difficulty in which the Coroner was placed, I never the less feel bound to reach the conclusion I have expressed.\" Dr Knapman and Dr Dolman were stood down and a new coroner was appointed by the High Court and Home Office, Dr John Burton. Burton then held an Inquest into all the Marchioness deaths.\n\nIn February 2000 Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott announced that he had ordered a Public Enquiry into the circumstances surrounding Marchioness disaster. During a Non-Statutory Inquiry into the Identification of the 51 Victims, overseen by Lord Justice Clarke. Lord Justice Clarke also expressed his concerns over the removal of the hands of the victims. (See Reference 2)\nSome of the family members of the victims urged Dr Knapman to resign and stated they would call on the Home Secretary if action was not taken against him. However, Dr Knapman continued to act as Her Majesty’s Coroner for London and Westminster for another 11 years and went on to have assigned to him many high-profile cases including the tragic death of Diana, Princess of Wales in 2007.\n\nThe Ladbroke Grove Rail crash (also known as The Paddington Rail crash) occurred on 5 October 1999. On that day in the morning, a Thames train to Bedwyn in Wiltshire left Paddington Station and collided head on with a First Great Western train travelling into Paddington from Cheltenham. The combined speed was 130 mph and ignited fuel, caused a fireball and the first carriage of the Cheltenham train was totally burnt out. Both drivers and 29 passengers, a total of 31 people were killed. The site of the crash and the dead came within the jurisdiction of the Coroner for Inner West London and the bodies were taken to an expanded mortuary at Westminster. All the inquests were opened and adjourned at Westminster Coroner's Court.\n\nThe inquests into all 31 dead was subsequently held at a special court at Westminster Council House. Each started with a very brief outline of the timings and mechanism of the accident. The Coroner heard the following evidence regarding each of the deceased: an outline of personal details, including character of each person provided by a relative; an indication of where it was estimated they were at the time of the collision assisted by visual aids; and a brief summary of the injuries and the cause of death (mostly severe burns) was provided by a pathologist.\n\nThen, having heard all the evidence a contrivance was shared and announced, that a letter from The Lord Chancellor had just been delivered. The letter requested the Coroner to adjourn the inquest pending the result of a public enquiry conducted by Lord Cullen. This contrivance was as a consequence of legislation passed only a month earlier, whereby the Lord Chancellor could require an inquest to be adjourned and only resumed if the Coroner \"believes there is exceptional reason for doing so\".\n\nThe cause of the crash was found to be the driver of the Thames train from Paddington passing signal SN109 at red, probably due to bad sighting of SN109 and bright sunlight at a low angle, and other factors outlined. There had been previous difficulty with this signal and eight events of \"signal passed at danger - SPAD\" in the proceeding six years. Significant other problems surfaced, resulting in the creation of the Rail Safety Standards Board in 2003.\n\nIn 2004 Thames Trains was fined a record £2,000,000 and were ordered to pay £75,000 in costs. The inquest was not resumed.\n\nOn 7 July 2005 in the morning four separate suicide bombs exploded at approximately the same time in London. The first suicide bomb exploded on a London Underground train close to Aldgate Station, the second suicide bomb exploded on a London Underground train close to Edgware Road Station, a third suicide bomb exploded on a London Underground Train close to King's Cross/Russell Square Stations. A fourth suicide bomb exploded almost one hour later on a double decker bus at Tavistock Square. It was originally thought there had been six rather than three explosions on the Underground Network as smoke billowed out of both ends of the tunnels. The bus brought the number to seven but this was clarified to four sites later in the day.\n\nThe number of fatalities were seven at Aldgate, six at Edgware Road, twenty-six at Kings Cross/Russell Square and thirteen at Tavistock Square plus the four suicide bombers themselves making a total number of 56 fatalities.\n\nAs there were four sites of the bombings it happened that there were two other coroners involved apart from Knapman. He was the \"Incident\" or \"Lead Coroner\" for the first 10 days until all the bodies had been identified. Knapman then handed over to Dr. Andrew Reid, Coroner for Inner North London, as the Incident Coroner. Unusually, quite apart from the anti-terrorist police, there were three police forces involved namely The Metropolitan Police, The British Transport Police and The City of London Police.\n\nA \"temporary mortuary\" was set up at The Honorary Artillery Company Headquarters at City Road, London EC1. The challenges were: there had been four sites of the bombs; many thousands of \"missing persons\" reported initially; a cosmopolitan city; disrupted bodies; and computer hard and software of 2005. For the first time features of Lord Justice Clark's report \"identification of victims following Major Transport Accidents\" were used. This put the Coroner in overall charge, but with a Senior Identification Manager (and Deputy), together with a Mortuary Documentation Officer, from within the police. There was also an \"Identification Commission\" chaired by the Coroner to scrutinise all documentation etc. before an identification was absolutely confirmed. Inquests were opened and adjourned by each of the three Coroners.\n\nIt was considered prudent that all the inquests be transferred to Dr. Knapman at Westminster under the provisions of The Coroners' Act 1988. Subsequently, Dr. Knapman appointed Lady Justice Hallett to be his Assistant Deputy Coroner, and she eventually held inquests into the deaths.\n\nThe death of Diana, Princess of Wales and Mr. Dodi Al-Fayed occurred on 31 August 1997 in Paris. The cause was a collision involving the car in which they were both travelling in the Alma tunnel hitting a pillar at speed inside the tunnel. Both bodies were repatriated to London.\n\nDue to protracted enquiries and legal difficulties, the delayed inquests into both were opened eventually on 6 January 2004 by Michael Burgess, HM Coroner for Surrey and The Royal Household. Subsequently, he announced he would resign from the cases said to be due to \"heavy and constant workload\" on 24 July 2006, and he appointed Lady Butler-Sloss as his deputy.\n\nFollowing court proceedings in the High Court on 2 March 2007, Paul Knapman was appointed Coroner. He appointed Lady Butler-Sloss, a retired Court of Appeal Judge to hear the inquests as his Assistant Deputy Coroner. She resigned on 24 April 2007. On 7 June 2007 Knapman appointed Lord Justice Scott Baker as his Assistant Deputy Coroner to hear the cases. He then held inquests into both Diana, Princess of Wales and Dodi Al-Fayed which began on 2 October 2007.\n\nThe jury returned a verdict of \"unlawful killing\" implicating the driver Henri Paul and the paparazzi.\n\nPaul Knapman went to Epsom College, Surrey, King's College London, and St George's Hospital Medical School, London, where he qualified as a doctor – MB, BS (1968). He then proceeded to read for the Bar at the Council of Legal Education, and was called to the Bar as a barrister by Gray's Inn in 1972.\n\nHonours\n\n\nPaul Knapman was Chairman of Governors of The London Nautical School 1997 -1999, having been a governor for eighteen years in total. He helped found the charity, the Coroners’ Courts Support Service, with a pilot scheme in his court, which commenced in January 2003.The charity won the research, advice and support category of The Charity Awards (UK) 2011. He was the Chairman of the board of trustees of the charity until 2011. He is a trustee of The St. John's Wood Alms Houses and The Society of Apothecaries Charitable Trust. He is a member of the Management Committee of Westminster Boating Base.\n\n\n<ref>Coroner for Inner West London ex parte Dallaglio JP 133 CA<ref>\n2)Part 1<ref>Public Inquiry into identification of victims following major transport accidents 2001 CMD 5012/ref>,\n\n"}
{"id": "22160902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22160902", "title": "Prehistoric Trackways National Monument", "text": "Prehistoric Trackways National Monument\n\nPrehistoric Trackways National Monument is a national monument in the Robledo Mountains of Doña Ana County, New Mexico, United States, near the city of Las Cruces. The monument's Paleozoic Era fossils are on of land administered by the Bureau of Land Management. It became the 100th active U.S. national monument when it was designated on March 30, 2009.\n\nThe Prehistoric Trackways National Monument site includes a major deposit of Paleozoic Era fossilized footprints in fossil mega-trackways of land animals, sea creatures, and insects. These are known as trace fossils or ichnofossils. There are also fossilized plants and petrified wood present, as well as plenty of marine invertebrate fossils including brachiopods, gastropods, cephalopods, bivalves, and echinoderms. Much of the fossilized material originated during the Permian Period and is around 280 million years old.\nSome of the animals who may have left tracks in the Robledo Mountains include \"Dimetrodon\", \"Eryops\", \"Edaphosaurus\", and multiple other pelycosaurs. There are at least 13 major trace fossils found at the monument, including Selenichnites (sel-EEN-ick-NIGHT eez) or moon-shaped trace, Kouphichnium (koof-ICK-nee-um) or light trace, Palmichnium (pal-ICK-nee-um) or palm [frond] trace, Octopodichnus (oct-toe-pod-ICK-nuss) or eight-footed trace, Lithographus (lith-oh-GRAFF-us) or rock writing, Tonanoxichnus (tong-a-nox-ICK-nuss) or Tonganoxie [Kansas] trace, Augerinoichnus (aw-gurr-EE-no-ICK-nuss) or Augerino trace, Undichna (und-ICK-nuh) or wave-shaped trace, Serpentichnus (serpent-ICK-nuss) or snake-like trace, Batrachichnus (baa-track ICK-nuss) or frog trace, Dromopus (dro-MOE-puss) or running foot, and Dimetropus (die-MEET-row-puss) or Dimetrodon foot.\n\nThe trackways can be difficult for the general public to find, as the monument is largely undeveloped with few facilities yet existing to aid fossil hunters. Many of the slabs pulled out by Jerry MacDonald are housed at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science, although they are not on display at this time. Guided hikes are periodically offered by BLM interpretive staff.\n\nThe monument lies along the western portion of the Rio Grande rift and is within part of the Robledo Mountains. It is made up of Cenozoic and Paleozoic (Hueco Group) sediments. The Hueco Group is early Permian strata. Most of the monument is Permian and would have been underwater or along the coast of what was once the Hueco Seaway. The tracks can be found in the red rock which is called the abo red beds.\n\nThe monument is situated at the northern tip of the Chihuahuan Desert. Some examples of plants within the monument are ocotillo, mesquite, creosote bush, prickly-pear cactus, Torrey yucca, barrel cactus, sotol, agave and snakeweed. A few of the animals that you may see are mule deer, rattlesnakes, desert cottontail, many species of lizards, and several species of birds.\n\nOn average the coolest month in the monument is January with an average high of , the hottest month is June with an average high temperature of , and the wettest month is August with about of precipitation.\n\nIn situ Paleozoic Era tracks were discovered on June 6, 1987 by Jerry Paul MacDonald. Scattered footprints had been found in the Robledos for almost fifty years prior to MacDonald starting his search. He used the recollections of local hikers, quarrymen, and fossil hunters to concentrate his search. This initial site was named the \"Discovery Site\". It is one of the best places in the monument for visitors to see fossilized tracks. Jerry MacDonald excavated three long trackways, carrying over 2500 slabs out from the site on his back. The majority of the slabs are housed in the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science in the Jerry MacDonald Paleozoic Trackways Collection. Two other continuous trackways are held in the Carnegie Museum of Natural History and Smithsonian.\n\nPrehistoric Trackways National Monument was sponsored by Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM) and was part of the National Landscape Conservation System of the United States of America under the Omnibus Public Land Management Act, signed into law on March 30, 2009. It was the first national monument established under the Barack Obama administration, and the fourth established in 2009. At the time of its establishment, it was the 100th active national monument in the United States (not the 100th national monument ever designated, since some monuments were previously designated and later dissolved, but the 100th national monument still in operation).\nThe Bureau of Land Management is in the process of writing a resource management plan for the monument to be completed in 2012. In the meantime, there are no developed hiking or equestrian trails, and only one interpretive sign. Roads are not maintained and there are no facilities. There are OHV and mountain bike trails, which are rugged and require appropriate skills and equipment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35179233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35179233", "title": "Probabilistic neural network", "text": "Probabilistic neural network\n\nA probabilistic neural network (PNN) is a feedforward neural network, which is widely used in classification and pattern recognition problems. In the PNN algorithm, the parent probability distribution function (PDF) of each class is approximated by a Parzen window and a non-parametric function. Then, using PDF of each class, the class probability of a new input data is estimated and Bayes’ rule is then employed to allocate the class with highest posterior probability to new input data. By this method, the probability of mis-classification is minimized. This type of ANN was derived from the Bayesian network and a statistical algorithm called Kernel Fisher discriminant analysis. It was introduced by D.F. Specht in the 1966. In a PNN, the operations are organized into a multilayered feedforward network with four layers:\n\nPNN is often used in classification problems. When an input is present, the first layer computes the distance from the input vector to the training input vectors. This produces a vector where its elements indicate how close the input is to the training input. The second layer sums the contribution for each class of inputs and produces its net output as a vector of probabilities. Finally, a compete transfer function on the output of the second layer picks the maximum of these probabilities, and produces a 1 (positive identification) for that class and a 0 (negative identification) for non-targeted classes.\n\nEach neuron in the input layer represents a predictor variable. In categorical variables, \"N-1\" neurons are used when there are \"N\" number of categories. It standardizes the range of the values by subtracting the median and dividing by the interquartile range. Then the input neurons feed the values to each of the neurons in the hidden layer.\n\nThis layer contains one neuron for each case in the training data set. It stores the values of the predictor variables for the case along with the target value. A hidden neuron computes the Euclidean distance of the test case from the neuron’s center point and then applies the radial basis function kernel function using the sigma values.\n\nFor PNN networks there is one pattern neuron for each category of the target variable. The actual target category of each training case is stored with each hidden neuron; the weighted value coming out of a hidden neuron is fed only to the pattern neuron that corresponds to the hidden neuron’s category. The pattern neurons add the values for the class they represent.\n\nThe output layer compares the weighted votes for each target category accumulated in the pattern layer and uses the largest vote to predict the target category.\n\nThere are several advantages and disadvantages using PNN instead of multilayer perceptron.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8104295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8104295", "title": "Shantidas Adhikari", "text": "Shantidas Adhikari\n\nShantidas Adhikari (also known as Shantidas Gosai,and Shantidas Babaji) was a Hindu preacher from Sylhet who converted King Pamheiba of Manipur to Hinduism in 1717 C.E..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1619255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619255", "title": "Shooting the messenger", "text": "Shooting the messenger\n\n\"Shooting the messenger\" is a metaphoric phrase used to describe the act of blaming the bearer of bad news.\n\nUntil the advent of modern telecommunication, messages were usually delivered by human envoys. For example, in war, a messenger would be sent from one camp to another. If the message was unfitting, the receiver might blame the messenger for such bad news and take their anger out on them.\n\nAn analogy of the phrase can come from the breaching of an unwritten code of conduct in war, in which a commanding officer was expected to receive and send back emissaries or diplomatic envoys sent by the enemy unharmed. During the early Warring States period of China, the concept of chivalry and virtue prevented the executions of messengers sent by opposing sides.\n\nAn early literary citing of \"shooting the messenger\" is in Plutarch's \"Lives states\": \"The first messenger, that gave notice of Lucullus' coming was so far from pleasing Tigranes that, he had his head cut off for his pains; and no man dared to bring further information. Without any intelligence at all, Tigranes sat while war was already blazing around him, giving ear only to those who flattered him\".\n\nA related sentiment was expressed in \"Antigone\" by Sophocles as \"no one loves the messenger who brings bad news\" or \"no man delights in the bearer of bad news\" ().\n\nThe sentiment that one should not shoot the messenger was expressed by Shakespeare in \"Henry IV, Part 2\" (1598) and in \"Antony and Cleopatra\": Cleopatra threatens to treat the messenger's eyes as balls when told Antony has married another, eliciting the response \"Gracious madam, I that do bring the news made not the match.\"\n\nThe term also applied to a town crier, an officer of the court who made public pronouncements in the name of the ruling monarch, and often including bad news. Harming a town crier was considered treason.\n\nSigmund Freud considered shooting the messenger a \"marginal case of this kind of defense...of fending off what is distressing or unbearable\", citing the example of \"the famous lament of the Spanish Moors \"Ay de mi Alhama\", which tells how King Boabdil received the news of the fall of his city of Alhama. He feels that this loss means the end of his rule. But he will not 'let it be true...He threw the letters in the fire and killed the messenger'\".\n\nFreud added that \"a further determinant of this behaviour of the king was his need to combat a feeling of powerlessness. By burning the letters and having the messenger killed he was still trying to show his absolute power.\"\n\nCarl G. Jung, a peer of Freud’s, describes the shadow in the individual as part of the unconscious mind, which is largely negative. “Everyone carries a shadow\", Jung wrote, \"and the less it is embodied in the individual’s conscious life, the blacker and denser it is\". It may be in part one’s links to more primitive animal instincts, which are superseded in early childhood by the conscious mind. V.G. Hufnagel, a bioethics expert wrote, “the shadow of the institution protects its own fraternity\". The fraternity members form a collective and share a collective consciousness with a predatory instinctive animal in nature and hold the fears of childhood. These fears stimulate actions to destroy any message that may harm them. There is no cognitive process in these actions. These are forced on death of an individual and of an idea through human sacrifice. There are religious aspects to these actions. The fraternity of authority believes it holds a right to exterminate those who could harm them. The shadow is a part of the \"psychology of institutions\". Institutions have enormous funds to use unlike an individual whistleblower. Institutions also have massive communication systems and a loyal population that supports the institution.\n\nA modern version of \"shooting the messenger\" can be perceived when someone blames the media for presenting bad news about a favored cause, person, organization, etc. \"Shooting the messenger\" may be a time-honored emotional response to unwanted news, but it is not a very effective method of remaining well-informed.\"\n\nGetting rid of the messenger may be a tactical move, but danger found in nondisclosure may result in either hostile responses or negative feedback from others. \"People learn very quickly where this is the case, and will studiously avoid giving any negative feedback; thus the 'Emperor' continues with the self-delusion...Obviously this is not a recipe for success\". Barbara Ehrenreich in \"Bright-sided/Smile or Die\" argued that a culture of \"thinking positive\" so as to \"purge 'negative people' from the ranks...[fed into] the \"bubble-itis\"\" of the 2000s.\n\nReactions to the whistleblowing organization WikiLeaks led to calls not to shoot the messenger.\n\nA syntactically similar expression \"Please do not shoot the pianist. He is doing his best\". It originated around 1860 in the Wild West of the United States when Oscar Wilde, during his 1883 tour of the United States, saw this saying on a notice in a Leadville, Colorado, saloon. This phrase is sometimes attributed to Mark Twain, but neither Wilde nor Twain ever claimed authorship.\n\nAlternative expressions:\n"}
{"id": "739878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739878", "title": "Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue", "text": "Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue\n\nSimplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) is a small, self-contained, propulsive backpack system (jet pack) worn during spacewalks, to be used in case of emergency only. If an untethered astronaut were to lose physical contact with the vessel, it would provide free-flying mobility to return to it. It is worn on spacewalks outside the International Space Station (ISS), and was worn on spacewalks outside the Space Shuttle. So far, there has not been an emergency in which it was needed. SAFER is a small, simplified version of the Manned Maneuvering Unit (MMU), which was used for regular maneuvering.\n\nSAFER is designed to be used as a self-rescue device if in spite of precautions such as tethers, safety grips, and the robot arm an EVA crewmember gets separated and no vehicles can provide rescue capability. SAFER is worn by every ISS crewmember using an Extravehicular Mobility Unit. SAFER was co-invented by former astronaut Joseph Kerwin, Paul Cottingham and Ted Christian under a Lockheed contract to NASA for Space Station Freedom. It was later sponsored by the Space Shuttle Program and developed by Lockheed and NASA personnel. Ralph Anderson was the Shuttle Program Office's Project Manager for the SAFER Development Test Objective (DTO). Cliff Hess was the NASA Project Engineer. The device was developed by the Robotics Division (with its Lockheed staff) of NASA at the Johnson Space Center. The SAFER was the design solution to the Shuttle Program's requirement to provide a means of self rescue should an EVA crewmember become untethered during an EVA.\n\nSAFER was first flown on STS-64 September 9, 1994, where an untethered flight test was performed first by astronaut Mark Lee and then Carl Meade. Both astronauts flew the SAFER up and around the Shuttle's Robotic Arm along with a demonstration test of the SAFER's automatic attitude hold feature. This feature arrests uncontrolled rotation of a detached crewmember expected in an accidental separation. SAFER has a mass of approximately 83 lb (38 kg) and can provide a total change in velocity (delta-v) of at least 10 ft/s (3 m/s). It was also tested during flight STS-92 when astronauts Peter Wisoff and Michael López-Alegría performed test maneuvers, flying up to 50 feet (15 m) while remaining tethered to the spacecraft.\n\nThe left side latch on the SAFER unit became unlatched during an EVA by astronaut Piers Sellers on STS-121 while testing shuttle repair techniques. The latch had been inadvertently bumped and moved to the unlatch position. As a precaution, Mike Fossum tethered it to him and the spacewalk continued. In subsequent spacewalks, the latches were secured with Kapton tape, a space-rated form of adhesive tape, to prevent the latches from inadvertently opening. A hard cover is being designed for future missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "7199040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7199040", "title": "The Ghost Club", "text": "The Ghost Club\n\nThe Ghost Club is a paranormal investigation and research organization, founded in London in 1862. It is widely believed to be the oldest such organization in the world. Since 1862 it has primarily investigated ghosts and hauntings.\n\nThe club has its roots in Cambridge in 1855, where fellows at Trinity College began to discuss ghosts and psychic phenomena. Launched officially in London in 1862, it counted Charles Dickens and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle among its members. One of the club's earliest investigations was of the Davenport brothers and their \"spirit cabinet\" hoax, the club challenging the Davenports' claim of contacting the dead.\n\nThe group continued to undertake practical investigations of spiritualist phenomena, a topic then in vogue, meeting to discuss ghostly subjects. The Ghost Club dissolved in the 1870s following the death of Dickens.\n\nThe club was revived on All Saints Day 1882 by the medium Stainton Moses and Alaric Alfred Watts. initially claiming to be the original founders, without acknowledging its origins. In 1882, the Society for Psychical Research (SPR), with whom there was an initial overlap, was founded at a similar time.\n\nWhile the SPR was a body devoted to scientific study, the Ghost Club remained a selective and secretive organization of convinced believers for whom psychic phenomena were an established fact. Stainton Moses resigned from the vice presidency of the SPR in 1886 and thereafter devoted himself to the Ghost Club. Membership was small (82 members over 54 years) and women were not allowed but during this period it attracted some of the most original and controversial minds in psychical research. These included Sir William Crookes Sir Oliver Lodge, Nandor Fodor and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.\n\nThe archives of the Club reveal that the names of members, both living and dead, were solemnly recited each November 2. Each individual, living or dead, was recognized a member of the Club. On more than one occasion deceased members were believed to have made their presence felt.\n\nAlso involved were the poet W. B. Yeats (joined 1911) and Frederick Bligh Bond (joined 1925), who became infamous with his investigations into spiritualism at Glastonbury. Bligh Bond later left the country and became active in the American Society for Psychical Research. He was ordained into the Old Catholic Church and rejoined the Ghost Club on his return to Britain in 1935.\n\nThe Principal of Jesus College, Cambridge, Arthur Grey fictionalized the Ghost Club in 1919 as \"The Everlasting Club\" in a ghost story that many still believe to be true.\n\nThe 20th century's move from séance room investigation to laboratory-based research meant the Ghost Club fell out of touch with contemporary psychic research. Harry Price, famous for his investigation into Borley Rectory, joined as a member in 1927 as did psychologist Nandor Fodor who represented the changing approach to psychical research taking place. With attendance falling, the club closed in 1936 after 485 meetings. The Ghost Club records were deposited in the British Museum under the proviso that they would remain closed until 1962 out of respect for confidentiality.\n\nWithin 18 months, Price relaunched the Ghost Club as a society dining event where psychic researchers and mediums delivered after-dinner talks. Price decided to admit women to the club, also specifying that it was not a spiritualist church or association but a group of skeptics that gathered to discuss paranormal topics. Members in this period included , Sir Julian Huxley, Algernon Blackwood, Sir Osbert Sitwell and Lord Amwell.\n\nFollowing Price's death in 1948, the club was again relaunched by members of the committee, Philip Paul and Peter Underwood. From 1962 Underwood served as President; many accounts of club activities are found in his books.\n\nTom Perrott joined the club in 1967 and served as Chairman from 1971 to 1993.\n\nIn 1993, the club underwent a period of internal disruption, during which Underwood left to become Life President of another society he had revived called \"The Ghost Club Society\".\n\nThe Ghost Club later expanded its remit to include the study of UFOs, dowsing, cryptozoology and similar topics.\n\nIn 1998, Perrott resigned as chairman (although he remained active in club affairs), and barrister Alan Murdie was elected as his successor. Murdie has written a number of ghost books including \"Haunted Brighton\" and regularly writes for \"Fortean Times\". In 2005 he was succeeded by Kathy Gearing, the club's first female chairperson. Gearing announced her resignation in the club's Summer 2009 newsletter.\n\nThe club continues to meet monthly at the Victory Services Club near Marble Arch, in London. Several investigations are performed in England every year. In recent times, investigations have been organised in Scotland by the club's Scottish Area Investigation Coordinator.\n\n\n\nThe club has been mentioned in numerous books, the most notable being \"No Common Task\" (1983), \"This Haunted Isle\" (1984), \"The Ghosthunters Almanac\" (1993) and \"Nights in Haunted Houses\" (1994), all by Peter Underwood, \"Some Unseen Power\" (1985) by Philip Paul, \"The Encyclopedia of Ghosts and Spirits\" (1992) by Rosemary Ellen Guiley, \"Will Storr Versus the Supernatural\" (2006) by Will Storr, \"The Guide to Mysterious Glasgow\" (2009) by Geoff Holder, \"Ghost Hunting: a Survivor's Guide\" (2010) by John Fraser and \"A Brief Guide to Ghost Hunting\" (2013) by Dr Leo Ruickbie.\n"}
{"id": "39364533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39364533", "title": "The Oracle Institute", "text": "The Oracle Institute\n\nThe Oracle Institute is a 501(c)(3) educational charity founded in 2004 by Laura M. George and located in Independence, Virginia. Oracle operates a multi-faith spirituality school, an award-winning publishing house, the Peace Pentagon conference center, and programs that support pluralistic and progressive values. Oracle's stated purpose is to serve as \"An Advocate for Peace and a Vanguard for Conscious Evolution,\" and its formal mission statement is an adaptation of Thomas Jefferson's Act for Establishing Religious Freedom.\n\nOracle's spirituality school offers courses, conferences, and retreats which focus on the five primary religions (Hinduism, Judaism, Buddhism, Christianity, and Islam), indigenous wisdom traditions, New Age philosophies, peace-building, social justice, and sustainability. In 2015, Oracle sponsored the \"Building the New World Conference\" at Radford University, which featured futurists Barbara Marx Hubbard, Jerome C. Glenn, and Charles Eisenstein.\n\nOracle publishes books under its imprint, Oracle Institute Press. Genres include religion and spirituality, personal growth and social evolution, mysticism, the arts, and children's fiction. Oracle Institute Press has won two Independent Publisher Book Awards in the Religion category, the Young Voices Seal of Approval for children's fiction, and two Indie Book Awards in the Spirituality and Performing Arts categories.\n\nIn 2012, after two years of litigation, during which Oracle was represented by The Rutherford Institute, Oracle achieved the right to build the \"Peace Pentagon\" along the New River in Grayson County, Virginia. The Peace Pentagon is an energy-efficient PassivHaus structure with a multi-faith sanctuary and conference facilities.\n\nIn 2015, Oracle founded an intentional community called the \"Valley of Light\" for cultural creatives who live and work at the Oracle campus. The Valley of Light micro-community was inspired by the Federation of Damanhur, whose Ambassadors regularly visit the Oracle campus. The Valley of Light is a member of the Fellowship for Intentional Community.\n\nAuthors published by the Oracle Institute include Oberto \"Falco\" Airaudi, Yuval Ron, Patricia Albere, Valerie Tarico, and the Institute's main founder, Rev. Laura M. George, J.D.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "203932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203932", "title": "Theory of constraints", "text": "Theory of constraints\n\nThe theory of constraints (TOC) is a management paradigm that views any manageable system as being limited in achieving more of its goals by a very small number of constraints. There is always at least one constraint, and TOC uses a focusing process to identify the constraint and restructure the rest of the organization around it. TOC adopts the common idiom \"a chain is no stronger than its weakest link\". This means that processes, organizations, etc., are vulnerable because the weakest person or part can always damage or break them or at least adversely affect the outcome.\n\nThe theory of constraints (TOC) is an overall management philosophy introduced by Eliyahu M. Goldratt in his 1984 book titled \"The Goal\", that is geared to help organizations continually achieve their goals. Goldratt adapted the concept to project management with his book \"Critical Chain\", published in 1997.\n\nAn earlier propagator of a similar concept was Wolfgang Mewes in Germany with publications on \"power-oriented management theory\" (Machtorientierte Führungstheorie, 1963) and following with his \"Energo-Kybernetic System (EKS, 1971)\", later renamed \"\" (Bottleneck-focused Strategy) as a more advanced \"theory of bottlenecks\". The publications of Wolfgang Mewes are marketed through the FAZ Verlag, publishing house of the German newspaper \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\" (Frankfurt General Newspaper). However, the paradigm \"Theory of constraints\" was first used by Goldratt.\n\nThe underlying premise of the theory of constraints is that organizations can be measured and controlled by variations on three measures: throughput, operational expense, and inventory. Inventory is all the money that the system has invested in purchasing things which it intends to sell. Operational expense is all the money the system spends in order to turn inventory into throughput. Throughput is the rate at which the system generates money through sales.\n\nBefore the goal itself can be reached, necessary conditions must first be met. These typically include safety, quality, legal obligations, etc. For most businesses, the goal itself is to make money. However, for many organizations and non-profit businesses, making money is a necessary condition for pursuing the goal. Whether it is the goal or a necessary condition, understanding how to make sound financial decisions based on throughput, inventory, and operating expense is a critical requirement.\n\nTheory of constraints is based on the premise that the rate of goal achievement by a goal-oriented system (i.e., the system's throughput) is limited by at least one constraint.\n\nThe argument by reductio ad absurdum is as follows: If there was nothing preventing a system from achieving higher throughput (i.e., more goal units in a unit of time), its throughput would be infinite — which is impossible in a real-life system.\n\nOnly by increasing flow through the constraint can overall throughput be increased.\n\nAssuming the goal of a system has been articulated and its measurements defined, the steps are:\n\n\nThe goal of a commercial organization is: \"Make more money now and in the future\", and its measurements are given by throughput accounting as: throughput, inventory, and operating expenses.\n\nThe five focusing steps aim to ensure ongoing improvement efforts are centered on the organization's constraint(s). In the TOC literature, this is referred to as the \"process of ongoing improvement\" (POOGI).\n\nThese focusing steps are the key steps to developing the specific applications mentioned below.\n\nA constraint is anything that prevents the system from achieving its goal. There are many ways that constraints can show up, but a core principle within TOC is that there are not tens or hundreds of constraints. There is at least one, but at most only a few in any given system. Constraints can be internal or external to the system. An internal constraint is in evidence when the market demands more from the system than it can deliver. If this is the case, then the focus of the organization should be on discovering that constraint and following the five focusing steps to open it up (and potentially remove it). An external constraint exists when the system can produce more than the market will bear. If this is the case, then the organization should focus on mechanisms to create more demand for its products or services.\n\nTypes of (internal) constraints\n\nThe concept of the constraint in Theory of Constraints is analogous to but differs from the constraint that shows up in mathematical optimization. In TOC, the constraint is used as a focusing mechanism for management of the system. In optimization, the constraint is written into the mathematical expressions to limit the scope of the solution (X can be no greater than 5).\n\nPlease note: organizations have many problems with equipment, people, policies, etc. (A breakdown is just that – a breakdown – and is not a constraint in the true sense of the TOC concept). The constraint is the limiting factor that is preventing the organization from getting more throughput (typically, revenue through sales) even when nothing goes wrong.\n\nIf a constraint's throughput capacity is elevated to the point where it is no longer the system's limiting factor, this is said to \"break\" the constraint. The limiting factor is now some other part of the system, or may be external to the system (an external constraint). This is not to be confused with a breakdown.\n\nBuffers are used throughout the theory of constraints. They often result as part of the exploit and subordinate steps of the five focusing steps. Buffers are placed before the governing constraint, thus ensuring that the constraint is never starved. Buffers are also placed behind the constraint to prevent downstream failure from blocking the constraint's output. Buffers used in this way protect the constraint from variations in the rest of the system and should allow for normal variation of processing time and the occasional upset (Murphy) before and behind the constraint.\n\nBuffers can be a bank of physical objects before a work center, waiting to be processed by that work center. Buffers ultimately buy you time, as in the time before work reaches the constraint and are often verbalized as time buffers. There should always be enough (but not excessive) work in the time queue before the constraint and adequate offloading space behind the constraint.\n\nBuffers are \"not\" the small queue of work that sits before every work center in a Kanban system although it is similar if you regard the assembly line as the governing constraint. A prerequisite in the theory is that with one constraint in the system, all other parts of the system must have sufficient capacity to keep up with the work at the constraint and to catch up if time was lost. In a balanced line, as espoused by Kanban, when one work center goes down for a period longer than the buffer allows, then the entire system must wait until that work center is restored. In a TOC system, the only situation where work is in danger is if the constraint is unable to process (either due to malfunction, sickness or a \"hole\" in the buffer – if something goes wrong that the time buffer can not protect).\n\nBuffer management, therefore, represents a crucial attribute of the theory of constraints. There are many ways to apply buffers, but the most often used is a visual system of designating the buffer in three colors: green (okay), yellow (caution) and red (action required). Creating this kind of visibility enables the system as a whole to align and thus subordinate to the need of the constraint in a holistic manner. This can also be done daily in a central operations room that is accessible to everybody.\n\nThere are four primary types of plants in the TOC lexicon. Draw the flow of material from the bottom of a page to the top, and you get the four types. They specify the general flow of materials through a system, and also provide some hints about where to look for typical problems. This type of analysis is known as VATI analysis as it uses the bottom-up shapes of the letters V, A, T, and I to describe the types of plants. The four types can be combined in many ways in larger facilities, e.g. \"an A plant feeding a V plant\".\n\nFrom the above list, one can deduce that for non-material systems one could draw the flow of work or the flow of processes, instead of physical flows, and arrive at similar basic V, A, T, or I structures. A project, for example, is an A-shaped sequence of work, culminating in a delivered product (\"i.e., the intended outcome of the project\").\n\nThe focusing steps, this process of ongoing improvement, have been applied to manufacturing, project management, supply chain/distribution generated specific solutions. Other tools (mainly the \"thinking process\") also led to TOC applications in the fields of marketing and sales, and finance. The solution as applied to each of these areas are listed below.\n\nWithin manufacturing operations and operations management, the solution seeks to pull materials through the system, rather than push them into the system. The primary methodology used is drum-buffer-rope (DBR) and a variation called simplified drum-buffer-rope (S-DBR).\n\nDrum-buffer-rope is a manufacturing execution methodology based on the fact the output of a system can only be the same as the output at the constraint of the system. Any attempt to produce more than what the constraint can process just leads to excess inventory piling up. The method is named for its three components. The \"drum\" is the rate at which the physical constraint of the plant can work: the work center or machine or operation that limits the ability of the entire system to produce more. The rest of the plant follows the beat of the drum. Schedule at the drum decides what the system should produce, in what sequence to produce and how much to produce. They make sure the drum has work and that anything the drum has processed does not get wasted.\n\nThe \"buffer\" protects the drum, so that it always has work flowing to it. Buffers in DBR provide the additional lead time beyond the required set up and process times, for materials in the product flow. Since these buffers have time as their unit of measure, rather than quantity of material, this makes the priority system operate strictly based on the time an order is expected to be at the drum. Each work order will have a remaining buffer status that can be calculated. Based on this buffer status, work orders can be color coded into Red, Yellow and Green. The red orders have the highest priority and must be worked on first, since they have penetrated most into their buffers followed by yellow and green. As time evolves, this buffer status might change and the color assigned to the particular work order change with it.\n\nTraditional DBR usually calls for buffers at several points in the system: the constraint, synchronization points and at shipping. S-DBR has a buffer at shipping and manages the flow of work across the drum through a load planning mechanism.\n\nThe \"rope\" is the work release mechanism for the plant. Orders are released to the shop floor at one \"buffer time\" before they are due to be processed by the constraint. In other words, if the buffer is 5 days, the order is released 5 days before it is due at the constraint. Putting work into the system earlier than this buffer time is likely to generate too-high work-in-process and slow down the entire system.\n\nAutomated production lines that are used in the beverage industry to fill containers usually have several machines executing parts of the complete process, from filling primary containers to secondary packaging and palletisation. These machines operate at different speeds and capacities and have varying efficiency levels.\n\nTo be able to maximize the throughput, the production line usually has a designed constraint. This constraint is typically the slowest and often the most expensive machine on the line. The overall throughput of the line is determined by this machine. All other machines can operate faster and are connected by conveyors.\n\nThe conveyors usually have the ability to buffer product. In the event of a stoppage at a machine other than the constraint, the conveyor can buffer the product enabling the constraint machine to keep on running.\n\nA typical line setup is such that in normal operation the upstream conveyors from the constraint machine are always run full to prevent starvation at the constraint and the downstream conveyors are run empty to prevent a back up at the constraint. The overall aim is to prevent minor stoppages at the machines from impacting the constraint.\n\nFor this reason as the machines get further from the constraint, they have the ability to run faster than the previous machine and this creates a V curve.\n\nIn general, the solution for supply chains is to create flow of inventory so as to ensure greater availability and to eliminate surpluses.\n\nThe TOC distribution solution is effective when used to address a single link in the supply chain and more so across the entire system, even if that system comprises many different companies. The purpose of the TOC distribution solution is to establish a decisive competitive edge based on extraordinary availability by dramatically reducing the damages caused when the flow of goods is interrupted by shortages and surpluses.\n\nThis approach uses several new rules to protect availability with less inventory than is conventionally required. Before explaining these new rules, the term Replenishment Time must be defined. Replenishment Time (RT) is the sum of the delay, after the first consumption following a delivery, before an order is placed plus the delay after the order is placed until the ordered goods arrive at the ordering location.\n\n\nOnce inventory is managed as described above, continuous efforts should be undertaken to reduce RT, late deliveries, supplier minimum order quantities (both per SKU and per order) and customer order batching. Any improvements in these areas will automatically improve both availability and inventory turns, thanks to the adaptive nature of Buffer Management.\n\nA stocking location that manages inventory according to the TOC should help a non-TOC customer (downstream link in a supply chain, whether internal or external) manage their inventory according to the TOC process. This type of help can take the form of a vendor managed inventory (VMI). The TOC distribution link simply extends its buffer sizing and management techniques to its customers’ inventories. Doing so has the effect of smoothing the demand from the customer and reducing order sizes per SKU. VMI results in better availability and inventory turns for both supplier and customer. More than that, the benefits to the non-TOC customers are sufficient to meet the purpose of capitalizing on the decisive competitive edge by giving the customer a powerful reason to be more loyal and give more business to the upstream link. When the end consumers buy more, the whole supply chain sells more.\n\nOne caveat should be considered. Initially and only temporarily, the supply chain or a specific link may sell less as the surplus inventory in the system is sold. However, the sales lift due to improved availability is a countervailing factor. The current levels of surpluses and shortages make each case different.\n\nThe solution for finance and accounting is to apply holistic thinking to the finance application. This has been termed throughput accounting. Throughput accounting suggests that one examine the impact of investments and operational changes in terms of the impact on the throughput of the business. It is an alternative to cost accounting.\n\nThe primary measures for a TOC view of finance and accounting are: throughput, operating expense and investment. Throughput is calculated from sales minus \"totally variable cost\", where totally variable cost is usually calculated as the cost of raw materials that go into creating the item sold.\n\nCritical Chain Project Management (CCPM) are utilized in this area. CCPM is based on the idea that all projects look like A-plants: all activities converge to a final deliverable. As such, to protect the project, there must be internal buffers to protect synchronization points and a final project buffer to protect the overall project.\n\nWhile originally focused on manufacturing and logistics, TOC has expanded lately into sales management and marketing. Its role is explicitly acknowledged in the field of sales process engineering. For effective sales management one can apply Drum Buffer Rope to the sales process similar to the way it is applied to operations (see Reengineering the Sales Process book reference below). This technique is appropriate when your constraint is in the sales process itself, or if you just want an effective sales management technique which includes the topics of funnel management and conversion rates.\n\nThe thinking processes are a set of tools to help managers walk through the steps of initiating and implementing a project. When used in a logical flow, the thinking processes help walk through a buy-in process:\n\nTOC practitioners sometimes refer to these in the negative as working through \"layers of resistance\" to a change.\n\nRecently, the \"current reality tree\" (CRT) and \"future reality tree\" (FRT) have been applied to an argumentative academic paper.\n\nDespite its origins as a manufacturing approach (Goldratt & Cox, The Goal: A process of Ongoing Improvement, 1992), Goldratt's Theory of Constraints (TOC) methodology is now regarded as a systems methodology with strong foundations in the hard sciences (Mabin, 1999). Through its tools for convergent thinking and synthesis, the “Thinking processes”, which underpin the entire TOC methodology, help identify and manage constraints and guide continuous improvement and change in organizations (Dettmer H. , 1998).\n\nThe process of change requires the identification and acceptance of core issues; the goal and the means to the goal. This comprehensive set of logical tools can be used for exploration, solution development and solution implementation for individuals, groups or organizations. Each tool has a purpose and nearly all tools can be used independently (Cox & Spencer, 1998). Since these thinking tools are designed to address successive “layers of resistance” and enable communication, it expedites securing “buy in” of groups. While CRT (current reality tree) represents the undesirable effects of the current situation, the FRT (the future reality tree), NBR (negative branch) help people plan and understand the possible results of their actions. The PRT (prerequisite tree) and TRT (transition tree) are designed to build collective buy in and aid in the Implementation phase. The logical constructs of these tools or diagrams are the necessary condition logic, the sufficient cause logic and the strict logic rules that are used to validate cause-effect relationships which are modelled with these tools (Dettmer W. , 2006).\n\nA summary of these tools, the questions they help answer and the associated logical constructs used is presented in the table below.\nTOC Thinking Process Tools:\nUse of these tools are based on the fundamental beliefs of TOC that organizations a) are inherently simple (interdependencies exist in organizations) b) desire inherent harmony (win – win solutions are possible) c) are inherently good (people are good) and have inherent potential (people and organizations have potential to do better) (Goldratt E. , 2009). In the book “Through the clouds to solutions” Jelena Fedurko (Fedurko, 2013) states that the major areas for application of TP tools as:\n\nTOC was initiated by Goldratt, who until his recent death was still the main driving force behind the development and practice of TOC. There is a network of individuals and small companies loosely coupled as practitioners around the world. TOC is sometimes referred to as \"constraint management\". TOC is a large body of knowledge with a strong guiding philosophy of growth.\n\nCriticisms that have been leveled against TOC include:\n\nWhile TOC has been compared favorably to linear programming techniques, D. Trietsch from University of Auckland argues that DBR methodology is inferior to competing methodologies. Linhares, from the Getulio Vargas Foundation, has shown that the TOC approach to establishing an optimal product mix is unlikely to yield optimum results, as it would imply that P=NP.\n\nDuncan (as cited by Steyn)\nsays that TOC borrows heavily from systems dynamics developed by Forrester in the 1950s and from statistical process control which dates back to World War II. And Noreen Smith and Mackey, in their independent report on TOC, point out that several key concepts in TOC \"have been topics in management accounting textbooks for decades.\"\n\nPeople claim Goldratt's books fail to acknowledge that TOC borrows from more than 40 years of previous management science research and practice, particularly from program evaluation and review technique/critical path method (PERT/CPM) and the just in time strategy. A rebuttal to these criticisms is offered in Goldratt's \"What is the \"Theory of Constraints\" and How Should it be Implemented?\", and in his audio program, \"Beyond The Goal\". In these, Goldratt discusses the history of disciplinary sciences, compares the strengths and weaknesses of the various disciplines, and acknowledges the sources of information and inspiration for the thinking processes and critical chain methodologies. Articles published in the now-defunct Journal of \"Theory of Constraints\" referenced foundational materials. Goldratt published an article and gave talks with the title \"Standing on the Shoulders of Giants\" in which he gives credit for many of the core ideas of Theory of Constraints. Goldratt has sought many times to show the correlation between various improvement methods.\n\nGoldratt has been criticized on lack of openness in his theories, an example being him not releasing the algorithm he used for the Optimum Performance Training system. Some view him as unscientific with many of his theories, tools and techniques not being a part of the public domain, rather a part of his own framework of profiting on his ideas.\nAccording to Gupta and Snyder (2009), despite being recognized as a genuine management philosophy nowadays, TOC has yet failed to demonstrate its effectiveness in the academic literature and as such, cannot be considered academically worthy enough to be called a widely recognized theory. TOC needs more case studies that prove a connection between implementation and improved financial performance.\nNave (2002) argues that TOC does not take employees into account and fails to empower them in the production process. He also states that TOC fails to address unsuccessful policies as constraints.\nIn contrast, Mukherjee and Chatterjee (2007) state that much of the criticism of Goldratt’s work has been focused on the lack of rigour in his work, but not of the bottleneck approach, which are two different aspects of the issue.\n\nThe Theory of Constraints International Certification Organization (TOCICO) is an independent not-for-profit incorporated society that sets exams to ensure a consistent standard of competence. It is overseen by a board of academic and industrial experts. It also hosts an annual international conference. The work presented at these conferences constitutes a core repository of the current knowledge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1878640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1878640", "title": "What the Dead Men Say", "text": "What the Dead Men Say\n\n\"What the Dead Men Say\" is a science fiction novella by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in \"Worlds of Tomorrow\" magazine in June 1964. The manuscript, originally titled \"Man With a Broken Match\", was received by Dick's agent on 15 April 1963.\n\nDeath is followed by a period of 'half-life', a short amount of time which can be rationed out over long periods in which the dead can be revived—so that, potentially, they can 'live' on for a long time. When attempts to bring back important businessman Louis Sarapis fail, it's clearly more than mere negligence. Sure enough, Sarapis starts speaking from beyond the grave. From outer space, in fact. Yet no-one seems terribly bothered, other than those directly concerned in the plot mechanics. Eventually entire communications networks (phones, TV, radio) are blocked by Sarapis' broadcasts.\n\nThe concept of 'half-life' was used again and developed in Dick's 1969 novel \"Ubik\", which even re-uses a page of the novella verbatim.\n"}
{"id": "12930067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12930067", "title": "Æthelwine of Wells", "text": "Æthelwine of Wells\n\nÆthelwine (or Ethelwine or Aethelwine) was an Anglo-Saxon Bishop of Wells. He was consecrated 1013, and was expelled to make way for Brihtwine, but was restored and then once more expelled. He died possibly around 1027.\n"}
