{"id": "25089912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25089912", "title": "Andreas Demetriou", "text": "Andreas Demetriou\n\nAndreas Demetriou (; born Andreas Panteli Demetriou on 15 August 1950) is a Greek Cypriot developmental psychologist and former Minister of Education and Culture of Cyprus.\n\nDemetriou was born in Strongylo, Famagusta, Cyprus, on 15 August 1950. He is married to Julia Tsakalea and he has two sons, Pantelis and Demetris. After graduating from Pancyprium Gymnasium, the oldest secondary school in Cyprus, he went to Thessaloniki, Greece, where he studied psychology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He received a PhD in psychology in 1983. He was a professor of Developmental Psychology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki until 1996. He then moved to the University of Cyprus, where he was a professor of psychology until he became the Minister of Education and Culture. Currently he is professor of psychology and President of the University of Nicosia Research Foundation. He is also President of the Pancyprian Association of Psychologists.\n\nHis research focuses on cognitive development. From the very beginning he attempted to develop a comprehensive theory of cognitive development aiming to integrate the empirically valid aspects of Piaget's theory with psychometric and cognitive theory. That is, the theory aimed to describe and explain intellectual development through the life span, individual differences in the rate and directions of intellectual development, and the cognitive mechanisms underlying development and individual differences. According to this theory, the human mind is organised in three functional levels. The first is the level of processing potentials, which involves information processing mechanisms underlying the ability to attend to, select, represent, and operate on information. The other two levels involve knowing processes, one oriented to the environment and another oriented to the self. The level oriented to the environment includes thought processes and functions that specialise in the representation and processing of information coming from different domains of the environment. Six domains are specified: Categorical, quantitative, causal, spatial, propositional, and social thought. The self-oriented level includes functions and processes oriented to monitoring, representing, and regulating processing potentials and the environment-oriented systems. It underlies executive control and planning and it generates self-perceptions that converge on a self-image that shape how we view and avail ourselves to problem solving and social interactions. Recently, he studies the relations between intellectual development and personality development and also the relations between intellectual development and brain development. He is also working on the educational applications of his theory., This theory is presented in more than 180 books and articles, such as (1) \"The Architecture and Dynamics of Developing Mind\", (2) \"The Development of Mental Processing \", and (3) \"Unity and Modularity in the Mind and the Self\". The journals \"New Ideas in Psychology\" \"Developmental Review\", \"Developmental Science\", \"Educational Psychology Review\", and \"Intelligence\", devoted special issues in the discussion of aspects of his theory.\n\nAs a Minister of Education and Culture from March 2008 to August 2011 he led a large programme of reforms in Cypriot education which includes the development of new curricula across all subjects and grades from preschool to senior high school and the expansion of the university system of the country. He also contributed to elevating Cypriot universities into regional centres of excellence and co-operation. Moreover, he reformed the system of cultural governance so that creators and people of culture are involved in the decision making mechanisms concerning arts and culture. Finally, he attempted to improve the efficiency of the Ministry through a series of changes in its administrative operation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36621742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36621742", "title": "Andreas Kaplan", "text": "Andreas Kaplan\n\nAndreas Marcus Kaplan (born October 5, 1977) is Professor of Marketing at the ESCP Europe Business School. He is specialized in the areas of social media, viral marketing, and the digital world in general.\nKaplan currently has the rector's position of ESCP Europe Berlin. Previously, he acted as the School's Dean for Academic Affairs and before as its Director of Brand and Communications, both as part of ESCP Europe's executive committee. Moreover, Kaplan was elected Head of the Faculty's marketing department.\n\nKaplan was born on October 5, 1977 and grew up in Munich, Germany. His mother is Anneliese Kaplan (dressmaker) and his father Vincenc Kaplan (locksmith).\n\nProfessor Kaplan holds a Master of Public Administration from the École Nationale d'Administration, an MSc from ESCP Europe, and a BSc from the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. He completed his Habilitation at the Sorbonne and his Ph.D. at the University of Cologne in cooperation with HEC Paris. Kaplan was visiting Ph.D. at INSEAD and participated in the International Teachers Programme at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University.\n\nBefore joining ESCP Europe, Kaplan started his career as marketing professor at the ESSEC Business School and Sciences Po Paris.\n\nParticularly interested in the future of management education in Europe and the general business school landscape, Kaplan has furthermore written articles treating European management as well as higher education and their future evolution notably with the digitization of the sector due to the arrival of MOOCs and SPOCs. Defining Europe as holding “maximum cultural diversity at minimal geographical distances“, Kaplan is a strong advocate of cross-cultural management education. He furthermore is in favor of an EU commissioner for happiness.\n\nKaplan started doing research in the areas of mass customization, innovation, customer lifetime valuation, and relationship marketing. Since then his research mainly deals with analyzing and decrypting the digital sphere. With more than 18 000 citations on Google Scholar, Professor Kaplan was counted amongst the Top 50 Business and Management authors in the world according to John Wiley & Sons. Kaplan received the annual Best Article Award from \"Business Horizons\", sponsored by Elsevier, for his 2012 paper \"If you love something, let it go mobile: Mobile marketing and mobile social media 4x4\".\n\nIn particular, his 2010 article co-authored with Michael Haenlein \"Users of the world, unite! The challenges and opportunities of social media\" published in \"Business Horizons\" is widely cited (over 13,000 times on Google Scholar, over 4,000 times in Scopus, and over 400 times in Business Source Premier) and known in the field. This seminal article \"Users of the World, Unite!\" recurrently achieved first place in Science Direct's annual list of the 25 most downloaded publications across all 24 core subject areas covered in Science Direct, ranging from Management to Engineering, Psychology, or Neuroscience and thus was downloaded more often than any other of the approximately 13.4 million papers in the collection.\n\nMore recent research deals with the influence of the digital sphere on higher education such as the arrival of MOOCs and SPOCs. His activities as speaker, commentator, and consultant consequently evolve around these topics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1163734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163734", "title": "Anthony Hecht", "text": "Anthony Hecht\n\nAnthony Evan Hecht (January 16, 1923 – October 20, 2004) was an American poet. His work combined a deep interest in form with a passionate desire to confront the horrors of 20th century history, with the Second World War, in which he fought, and the Holocaust being recurrent themes in his work.\n\nHecht was born in New York City to German-Jewish parents. He was educated at various schools in the city - he was a classmate of Jack Kerouac at Horace Mann School - but showed no great academic ability, something he would later refer to as \"conspicuous\". However, as a freshman English student at Bard College in New York he discovered the works of Wallace Stevens, W. H. Auden, T. S. Eliot, and Dylan Thomas. It was at this point that he decided he would become a poet. Hecht's parents were not happy at his plans and tried to discourage them, even getting family friend Ted Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, to attempt to dissuade him.\n\nIn 1944, upon completing his final year at Bard, Hecht was drafted into the 97th Infantry Division and was sent to the battlefields in Europe. He saw combat in Germany in the \"Ruhr Pocket\" and in Cheb in Czechoslovakia. However, his most significant experience occurred on April 23, 1945 when Hecht's division helped liberate Flossenbürg concentration camp. Hecht was ordered to interview French prisoners in the hope of gathering evidence on the camp's commanders. Years later, Hecht said of this experience, The place, the suffering, the prisoners' accounts were beyond comprehension. For years after I would wake shrieking.\n\nAfter the war ended, Hecht was sent to Japan, where he became a staff writer with \"Stars and Stripes\". He returned to the US in March 1946 and immediately took advantage of the G.I. bill to study under the poet-critic John Crowe Ransom at Kenyon College, Ohio. Here he came into contact with fellow poets such as Randall Jarrell, Elizabeth Bishop, and Allen Tate. He later received his master's degree from Columbia University. In 1947 Hecht attended the University of Iowa and taught in the Iowa Writers' Workshop, together with writer Robie Macauley, with whom Hecht had served during World War II, but, suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder after his war service, gave it up swiftly to enter psychoanalysis.\n\nHecht released his first collection, \"A Summoning of Stones\", in 1954. Even at this stage Hecht's poetry was often compared with that of Auden, with whom Hecht had become friends in 1951 during a holiday on the Italian island of Ischia, where Auden spent each summer. In 1993 Hecht published \"The Hidden Law\", a critical reading of Auden's body of work. In his second book, \"The Hard Hours\", Hecht first addressed his own experiences of World War II - memories that had caused him to have a nervous breakdown in 1959. Hecht spent three months in hospital following his breakdown, although he was spared electric shock therapy, unlike Sylvia Plath, whom he had encountered while teaching at Smith College.\n\nHecht's main source of income was as a teacher of poetry, most notably at the University of Rochester, where he taught from 1967 to 1985. He also spent varying lengths of time teaching at other notable institutions such as Smith, Bard, Harvard, Georgetown, and Yale. Between 1982 and 1984, he held the esteemed position of Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress. Hecht won a number of literary awards including: the 1968 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry (for \"The Hard Hours\"), the 1983 Bollingen Prize, the 1988 Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize, the 1989 Aiken Taylor Award for Modern American Poetry, the 1997 Wallace Stevens Award, the 1999/2000 Frost Medal, and the Tanning Prize.\n\nHecht died on October 20, 2004, at his home in Washington, D. C.; he is buried at the cemetery at Bard College. One month later, on November 17, Hecht was awarded the National Medal of Arts, accepted on his behalf by his wife, Helen Hecht.\n\nThe Anthony Hecht Poetry Prize is awarded annually by the Waywiser Press.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4762487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4762487", "title": "Azerbaijan Technical University", "text": "Azerbaijan Technical University\n\nAzerbaijan Technical University (AzTU; ) is a public university, specialized in engineering, located in Baku, Azerbaijan. The University has 9 schools and 54 departments, 884 faculty members and approximately 6500 students.\n\nNovember 14, 1920, the Soviet government decided that the previous technical school \"Baku Polytechnic\" would be closed and replaced by the Baku Polytechnic Institute. The new school focused on training engineers in such sectors as agriculture, civil engineering, electromechanics, economics, and oil. In 1923, the school changed its name to the Azerbaijan Polytechnic Institute. In March 1929 the Communist Party of Azerbaijan decided that the school would be divided into three independent schools covering agriculture, economy, and oil.\n\nHowever, the growing demands of engineers in other areas outside of oil led to the expansion of the school curriculum, and the school again changed its name in 1934, this time to the Azerbaijan Industrial Institute (AZPI), since it was combined with civil engineering. The Second World War taxed the Soviet Union, and schools like AzPI tried to remain open.\n\nIn 1950, the government established a separate Azerbaijan Polytechnic Institute (AzPI) and transferred non-petrochemical curricula to a new school so that Az. I.I. can focus on the oil industry. (AzPI continued to eventually become the Azerbaijan State Oil Academy.) In 1970, the branch of AzPI was established in Ganja.\n\nIn 1993, AzPI changed its status and became the Azerbaijan Technical University.\n\nElectrical Engineering and Power Engineering\n\nTransport\n\nTechnological Machines\n\nSpecial equipment and technologies\n\nRadio engineering and communication\n\nMetallurgy\n\nMachine-building\n\nEngineering Business and Management\n\nDean's Office for International Students\n\nAutomation and Computer Technology \n\nIt was founded in 1964. The faculty includes 4 departments: Thermal and cold technology, Power supply and insulation, Electrical and electrotechnical equipment, Theoretical bases of electrical engineering. Students are attracted to scientific research conducted at the departments.\n\nPreviously called mechanical. Its modern name was given to the faculty only in 2001.\n\nIt was founded in 1986 on the basis of the machine-building faculty. 5 departments are part of the faculty: Machine parts and lifting and transporting machines, Metrology and standardization, Theory of mechanisms and machines, Technological complexes and special equipment, Engineering graphics.\n\nDuring the foundation, in 1960, the faculty was called Electrotechnical. Later, the division was carried out, and two faculties were formed: Electro-technical and Radiotechnical.\n\nIt was founded in February 1964. The faculty includes 4 departments.\n\nIt was founded in 1982. The faculty includes 5 departments: Technology of mechanization, Machine parts, Theory of machines and mechanisms, Technological complexes and special equipment, Physics.\n\nThe purpose of training at the faculty is to train personnel for foreign countries. It was founded in 1978.\n\nIt was founded in 1960. There are 6 departments at the faculty: Automation of Computational Technologies and Production Processes, Automation and Telemechanics, Industrial Electronics, General and Theoretical Radio Engineering, Higher Mathematics, Physics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10514566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10514566", "title": "BESETOHA", "text": "BESETOHA\n\nBESETOHA is a forum in which four representative East Asian universities—Peking University, Seoul National University, the University of Tokyo and Hanoi National University—meet to discuss the present state and future directions of university education, basic education and educational culture. The BESETOHA forum takes its name from the first two Roman characters of the names of the participating universities. BESETOHA was established in 1999. Involving the acknowledged flagships for their respective countries, this elite level initiative reflects the centralized educational cultures of the region, and in that way contrasts with more ecumenical regionalization initiatives such as the Bologna process.\n\nKyung, Eunyoung \"From where I sit: Bologna, but with Asian spice\", \"Times Higher Education\", 13 December 2012.\n"}
{"id": "24244827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244827", "title": "Brendan Sheerin", "text": "Brendan Sheerin\n\nBrendan Sheerin (born 23 February 1959) is a British International Tour Guide, television personality, pantomime actor and author with 34 years of experience in the travel business, made famous by the reality TV show \"Coach Trip\" on Channel 4.\n\nSince 2005, Sheerin has appeared in the Channel 4 television series \"Coach Trip\". He acts as a travel guide for the contestants, commentator on their conduct and coordinator of the vote off.\n\nIn 2012, Sheerin signed a deal to host a new dating show for Channel 4, titled \"Brendan's Love Boat\". \"Brendan's Love Cruise\" began on More4 on 2 December 2013. A temporary replacement show for \"Coach Trip\", \"Brendan's Magical Mystery Tour\", aired on Channel 4 in June and July 2013. After a one-year break, \"Coach Trip\" returned in 2014 for a ninth series.\n\nSheerin appeared in pantomime for the first time in December 2010, and in 2012 played the part of the baron at the Alhambra Theatre in Bradford opposite Lynda Bellingham. Sheerin is the former entertainments manager of The Spa, Scarborough.\n\nIn 2011, Sheerin released his autobiography \"My Life: A Coach Trip Adventure\".\n\nIn his spare time Brendan likes to work as a Business Analyst.\n\nSheerin was born into a Roman Catholic family of Irish extraction, in Leeds in the North of England. His home is in Málaga, Spain. Sheerin is a fluent Spanish speaker and also speaks a good level of French.\n\nSheerin is openly gay and was in a 25-year relationship until his life partner Leslie died of heart failure on 28 December 2001 at their home in Flixton, North Yorkshire.\n\nBrendan is an animal lover and currently has a pet dog which was rescued from Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "43157449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43157449", "title": "Central Institute of Educational Technology", "text": "Central Institute of Educational Technology\n\nThe Central Institute of Educational Technology (acronym CIET) is an autonomous organization, formed as a nodal agency under the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for promoting the use of mass media technology for expanding and improving the quality of education at the school level. The Institute is funded by the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Government of India. The building is dedicated to Childern's of India and was build by Raj Rewal Associates in 1986\n\nThe Central Institute of Educational Technology(CIET) was established in 1984 by the Ministry of Human Resources Development of Government of India, under the umbrella of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The Institute is located at NIE Campus, NCERT in New Delhi, the capital of India.\n\nThe origin of the Institute was effected by merging two departments of NCERT, Center for Educational Technology and Department of Teaching Aids, with an aim to make the new age technologies in mass media available at the school level. The activities of the Institute are centered on the branches of media such as radio, television, movies, satellite communications and cyber media.\n\nCIET is involved in various activities such as design, development and dissemination of alternative learning systems, promotion of Educational Technology, training of personnel in Educational Technology, coordination of activities of its subsidiaries like the State Institutes of Education Technology (SIET) and consultancy and media support to other constituents of NCERT.\n\nThe Institute is housed in a spacious building with open courtyards, amphitheater, two television studios, two sound studios, technical control rooms, workshop, seminar rooms, rehearsal areas and projection facilities, library, canteen, administrative areas and artists' studios.\n\nThe Institute also provides courses in education at bachelors, masters and doctoral levels.\n\nCIET is mandated to:\n\nCIET functions with six vertical divisions, each attending to its own areas of responsibilities.\n\nThe Division caters to the two main aspects of media production of video and audio productions under two separate departments.\n\nAudio Production Department\n\nThe department is the production hub of CIET for audio related programs for broadcast and non-broadcast uses. The department also provides educational content for Gyan Vani FM channel, for broadcast through its stations in Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal, Patna, Indore, Mumbai, Jaipur and Allahabad. The programs are aimed at ongoing learning for children, by providing a class room ambience away from schools. It caters to the requirement of students from 3 to 16 years of age and also assists teachers for obtaining curricular study materials not elaborated in the text books.\n\nVideo Production Department\nThe department produces educational videos for children of 5 to 18 years and teachers at the primary and secondary levels. The programs are produced in both Hindi and English languages. Doordarshan and \"Gyan Darshan\" channels regularly telecast these programs. They are also available in CD and DVD formats.\n\nThe division is the liaison agency of CIET and prepares the program agenda for submission at Institutional Advisory Board (IAB) and Program Advisory Committee (PAC) meetings of NCERT and monitors the implementation of the approved programs. It also liaises with the Ministry of the Human Resources Development, the State Institutes of Educational Technology (SIETs) located in six States and Educational Technology (ET) cells of the State Councils Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The division is responsible for the documentation of SIET such as annual reports and attends to planning, conduct and dissemination of research.\n\nDICT is the information and communications hub of the Institute. It manages the information and communication resources and is engaged in the production of multimedia study materials, training of teachers, propagation of ICT resources among schools in the country and the upkeep and maintenance of CIET web site.\n\nCIET conducts regular training programs for teachers and teachers' trainers through direct and distance mode (using EDUSAT network). The training modules are available on such subjects as design of media scripts, production of TV, Radio and Multimedia programs, editing, communication and media research, design of computer graphics, puppets, moppets and low cost teaching and learning materials. The other areas of training are:\n\nMRDD division attends to the publicity and propaganda requirements of CIET through the sales of CIET audio and video materials, participation in book fairs and exhibitions, organization of meetings and conferences and preparation of information brochures and catalogues propagating them nationwide.\n\nThe division is responsible for the procurement, upkeep and upgradation of the technical facilities of CIET such as the art production facilities, audio and video studios and the computer servers with the assistance of qualified technical staff.\n\nLibrary\n\nCIET maintains three libraries, each dedicated to audio, video and book collections. The library is stocked with contents on educational technologies, radio, television, communication, films, multimedia in the form of books, journals, CDS/DVDs and multimedia packages. The library is open to outside visitors, too.\n\nEdusat Network\n\nCIET utilizes the Edusat, the first Indian satellite exclusively for educational sector. CIET utilizes a Ku-band Sub Hub along with 100 terminals at various locations in India for conventional radio and television broadcast, interactive radio and television (phone-in and video on demand), exchange of data, audio, video and computer conferencing and web based education.\n\nIn order to reach all corners of the country, CIET has set up local stations in six states, which operate in coordination with state governments, under the guidance of CIET. The local stations are located at:\n\n"}
{"id": "8645374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8645374", "title": "Charles Herbert Levermore", "text": "Charles Herbert Levermore\n\nCharles Herbert Levermore (October 15, 1856 - October 20, 1927) was an American academic and peace activist. He was a founder and the first president of Adelphi University from 1896 to 1912. He won the American Peace Award in 1924. He was corresponding secretary of the World's Court League in 1919, secretary of the League of Nations Union, and secretary of the New York Peace Society. He was a founding member of the Union League in New York City.\n\nHe was born on October 15, 1856 in Mansfield, Connecticut.\n\nLevermore attended Yale University, where he received an A.B., class of 1879, and Johns Hopkins University, where he received a Ph.D. in 1885. At the latter institution he became friends with a young Thomas Woodrow Wilson, both being fellow members of the Glee Club. Later he became a Professor of History at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Levermore was appointed head of Adelphi Academy in 1893 and subsequently established the liberal arts Adelphi College in Brooklyn, NY in 1896. To this day, Adelphi's main administrative building, Levermore Hall, is named after him and the university's flagship global honors program also still bears his name - the Levermore Global scholars Program.\n\nIn 1924, Levermore attempted to mobilize support for the League of Nations, conceived by his former classmate, President Woodrow Wilson. Levermore was awarded the American Peace Award, created the year before by Edward Bok, for \"the best practicable plan by which the United States may co-operate with other nations to achieve and preserve the peace of the world.\" This plan would have had the United States enter the League of Nations under special status. However, ultimately, this also proved unsuccessful.\n\nHe died on October 20, 1927 in Berkeley, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24760656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24760656", "title": "Christopher Hawkins (dancer)", "text": "Christopher Hawkins (dancer)\n\nChristopher Hawkins is an English ballroom dancer and teacher. He won the Professional World Ballroom Dance Championship three times, with Hazel Newberry (2002–2004). The couple also won the International Professional Ballroom Championship in London in 2002 and 2003.\n\nBefore this, he won both World and European Amateur Standard championships with Newberry, in 1997. His career as an amateur concluded with thirteen successive victories in championship events in Europe and the USA, during 1997, including the World Games.\n\nLater, Hawkins danced with, and married, Justyna Kozinska, a Polish dancer. They competed from 2005 to January 2008. Their top result was third place in the World and International Ballroom Championships of 2007. The couple have now retired from competitive dancing.\n"}
{"id": "25747461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25747461", "title": "Class size", "text": "Class size\n\nClass size refers to the number of students a teacher faces during a given period of instruction. Dozens of studies on class-size reduction demonstrate its positive impact on student performance, though a smaller number of studies attempt to cast doubt on the connection between class size and student learning. \n\nSome researchers and policymakers have studied the effects of class size by using student-teacher ratio (or its related inverse, teacher-pupil ratio), but class size is not accurately captured by this metric. As Michael Boozer and Cecilia Rouse explain in “Intraschool Variation in Class Size: Patterns and Implications,” student-teacher ratio gives an imprecise view of class size because teachers may be unevenly distributed across classrooms. Some teachers have light course loads as they are assigned to spend most or all of their time coaching other teachers. These coaches would nevertheless factor into the calculation of student-teacher ratio. In other classes – say, an inclusion class with special education students – two teachers may jointly teach a class of thirty-four students. Although student-teacher ratio would describe this class’ size as seventeen, these teachers continue to face thirty-four students during instruction. In general, average class size will be larger than student-teacher ratio anytime a school assigns more than one teacher to some classrooms. In poor and urban districts, where schools enroll higher numbers of students needing specialized instruction, student-teacher ratios will therefore be especially imprecise measures of class size. \n\nAlthough student-teacher ratio does not measure class size, some important studies and surveys have used student-teacher ratio as a proxy for class size. Indeed, some critics of class size reduction, including Malcolm Gladwell's \"David and Goliath\", cite a 1986 study by Eric Hanushek, “The Economics of Schooling: Production and Efficiency in Public Schools,” that relies on a literature review of data on student-teacher ratio instead of class size. See Class-size reduction for a full discussion of Hanushek’s thesis.\n\nEducators have noted the benefits of class size since classical times. \n\nIsocrates opened an academy of rhetoric in Athens around 392 B.C.E to train Athenian generals and statesmen, and he insisted on enrolling no more than six or eight students in his school at a time. Edward J. Power explains that Isocrates admitted \"only a few students to his classes because of his extraordinary concern for care.\" Quintilian, a rhetorician writing in the Roman Empire around 100 CE, cited the practices in Isocrates' school as evidence that a caring education required small class sizes. Quintilian argued in \"Institutes of Oratory \", as Edward Power summarizes the book's thesis, that \"care had nothing whatever to do with discipline: it meant simply that only a few students at a time could be taught effectively.\"\n\nThe twelfth century rabbinic scholar Maimonides recognized that class size was correlated with student achievement. He wrote: ““Twenty-five children may be put in charge of one teacher. If the number in the class exceeds twenty- five but is not more than forty, he should have an assistant to help with the instruction. If there are more than forty, two teachers must be appointed.’’ \n\nErasmus, the Dutch Humanist, wrote in his 1529 study of education \"De Pueris Instituendis\" about the advantages of private tutoring over ecclesiastic and public schools, where he believed classes had grown too large. He explained that “his standard of efficiency demanded a small school conducted by brilliant scholars…” Erasmus recognized that most parents would nevertheless have to settle for large class sizes because of the financial costs of such tutoring. \n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, the philosopher and educational theorist John Dewey explained that in his ideal school, class sizes should be very small. “For the purposes of convenience, the children are divided into small groups of eight to twelve according to the kind of work and the age of the children. It is expected that the teacher will give attention to the specific powers and deficiencies of each child, so that the individual capacities will be brought out, and individual limitations made good.”\n\nThe author Kurt Vonnegut was a passionate advocate for class size reduction: “… we have some of the worst schools in the world…. The classes are too big. My definition of a utopia is very simple: classes of 15 or smaller – out of this, a great nation can be built. Classes have 35 students, for Christ’s sake. The class ideally should be a family. Let’s take care of each other. There’s a person who can’t get the hang of calculus? Someone should say, “Here, let me show you.” A class of 35? Poor teacher.” \n\nLikewise, in a 2006 interview with NPR before his death in 2007, Vonnegut was asked: “If you were to build or envision a country that you could consider yourself to be a proud citizen of, what would be three of its basic attributes”? Vonnegut responded: “Just one: great public schools with classes of 12 or smaller.\" Interviewer: “That’s it?” Vonnegut: “Yeah….Just do this.” \n\nFrank McCourt, a teacher in New York City public schools for thirty years and a Pulitzer Prize winner, also stressed the importance of smaller class size. In response to a radio interview question about what he would do first if he were named Schools Chancellor, McCourt answer that he would “cut the school day and certainly cut the size of the class because they’re monstrous.” \n\nLou Anne Johnson, a Los Angeles-based teacher, explained in her New York Times bestselling book Dangerous Minds that “When classes are small enough to allow individual student-teacher interaction, a minor miracle occurs: teachers teach and students learn.\n\nThirty-six states have adopted provisions to require class size reduction. These laws may set caps on individual class sizes, on school-wide student-teacher ratio, or class size averages in one or more grades. Several states have relaxed those requirements since 2008. Florida’s class size cap was established over the course of several years, in response to a statewide referendum in 2002 that amended its state constitution. Statewide, class size averages are 15.46 students per class in grades preK-3, 17.75 in grades 4-8, and 19.01 in high school. Some cities regulate class size as well. San Diego, New York, and Boston include class size caps in their contracts with teachers unions. \n\nBased on most recent data available from the National Center for Education Statistics.\n\nBased on most recent data available from the National Center for Education Statistics.\n\nIn a 2013 survey, OECD reports the average class size of its member countries at 24.1 The complete results of this study are below. Note that class size averages in this study are based on reports from lower secondary school (middle school) teachers about a class they choose at random to describe. The study did not comprehensively survey school enrollment, which is why the United States’ class size average appears differently here than in the previous chart. \n\nNational class size estimates date back only to the late 1980s. Available historical data appears in the table below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28644797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28644797", "title": "Dina Barberini", "text": "Dina Barberini\n\nDina Barberini (17 March 1862 - 26 December 1932) was an Italian operatic soprano who had an active international career from the 1880s into the early part of the 20th century. She later embarked on a second career as a voice teacher.\n\nBarberini was advised by Giuseppe Verdi to pursue an opera career after he heard her sing while visiting her home town of Tabiano Terme. She then entered the Milan Conservatory where she studied singing with Teresa Brambilla. She made her debut as Marguerite in Charles Gounod's \"Faust\". Among the theatres she appeared at were La Scala, the Bolshoi Theatre, the Liceu, the Mariinsky Theatre, the Prague National Theatre, the Royal Opera House, Valletta, the São João National Theatre, the Teatro Carlo Felice, the Teatro Costanzi, the Teatro Nacional de São Carlos, the Teatro Real, the Teatro Regio di Torino, and the Theater an der Wien. At the behest of Gustav Mahler she performed at the Odessa Opera. One of the highlights of her career was singing Margherita in Arrigo Boito's \"Mefistofele\" under the baton of Arturo Toscanini. She sang opposite tenor Francesco Tamagno in several productions. After giving her farewell opera performance at the Opéra de Monte-Carlo, she taught singing out of her home in Milan. She died there in 1932 at the age of 70.\n"}
{"id": "10748618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10748618", "title": "Education in the Middle East and North Africa", "text": "Education in the Middle East and North Africa\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights has emphasized education's importance as a fundamental human right and a necessary element of development. Education encompasses the scope of social values, morality, tradition, religion, politics and history. It is the acquired body of knowledge that equips the emerging labor force with the necessary skills to ensure its active participation in economic development. The acquisition of literacy, arithmetic, and problem-solving skills improves the value and efficiency of labor. It creates a skilled and intellectually flexible labor force through training, expertise, and academic credentials. A professional working force enhances the quality of a nation's economic productivity and guarantees its suitability for global market competitiveness. According to a recent research report by the United Nations Population Fund, countries such as Egypt, Jordan, and Algeria have invested in family planning, healthcare, and education and have subsequently experienced more rapid economic development than the countries that were reluctant to invest in social development programs.\n\nThe Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region comprises the countries of Algeria, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), West Bank and Gaza, Israel and Yemen. Despite that Israel is geographically situated in the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region, this article focuses on the countries that are bounded by Arabic language majority, except Iran where Persian is the official language and Turkey where Turkish is the official language.\n\nAlthough most MENA countries share common identity formation features - Islam as the main religion and Arabic as a common language (except Iran and Turkey), they differ in ethnicity, tradition, history and spoken dialects of Arabic. Economic development strategies also vary between the oil-producing states such as Kuwait and United Arab Emirates and the non-oil producing countries such as Tunisia and Jordan.\n\nDuring the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth centuries, most countries of the region were under European colonization. Though the colonizing authorities were the first to introduce a compulsory education, access to modern (European-style) education was restricted to a select elite. Colonial education in many ways was designed to shape local intellectual development and to limit their ability of local actors in challenging the colonizers’ political control, while enhancing the of Western culture, but it resulted from the colonizer’s willingness to advance a dominant and superior western culture while annexing further territories in the MENA region and imposing restrictions on nationals.\n\nColonies such as Tunisia and Egypt invested in educational missions that sent elite students to Europe where they could study technologies and modes of life and ultimately transfer their acquired knowledge to their countries of origin. Such measures resulted in the creation of modern schools in the nineteenth century such as the polytechnic school of Bardo (est. 1830) and represented the French \"Ecole Polytechnique\" in Tunisia.\n\nBy the late nineteenth century, there was widespread awareness of Western culture's impact. The new Ottoman ruling élite, referred to as intelligentsia, was trained in specialized schools under the tutelage of European specialists. Governments seeking reforms trained the intelligentsia élite as officials, doctors, engineers and police officers.\nIn Cairo, lawyers were trained at a French law school in order to be able to work in mixed courts. In Tunisia, the French colonizers controlled both primary and secondary schools such as the \"Sadiqiyya\", a secondary school established as a model of a French highschool, the \"lycée.\"\n\n1-Historical perspective:\n\nIn the Middle East and North Africa, during the post-colonial era, education spread as result of the significant social changes and the rise of indigenous élite as a ruling power. The willingness of national governments to build a strong nation made the acquisition of literacy a necessary skill for maximizing human potential. Most scholars and policy makers in the region have argued that education is the cornerstone of society’s economic growth and expansion. They stress the importance of investing in education in order to promote sustained economic development, although despite significant expansion of educational reach and services, unemployment remains high\n\nIn the post-colonial period, the dominant pattern has been governments’ control of education. Free education was promoted by many leaders, including Egypt's Gamal Abdel Nasser, as a critical aspect of nation-building, and promised that each graduate would find a position in the public sector. The expansion of primary, secondary and tertiary education has paralleled the rapid population growth since the 1960s. Between 1965 and 1990, the percentage of students enrolled in primary education increased from 61% to 98%.\n\nDespite the introduction of higher education colonialism, the pace of enrollment at the university level increased significantly immediately following independence. In 1939, there were no more than nine regional universities, and by 1960, twenty. States with the highest numbers of enrolled students included Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq.\n\nIn the conservative regimes of Saudi Arabia and Yemen, European-style education was slow to emerge. Regimes were careful to expose the students to doctrines that might contradict with the Islamic culture, although Kuwait served as an exception. The Persian Gulf states have since introduced far-reaching educational reforms, with the awareness that only by investing in their own human capital will they see economic development continue beyond the oil boom years. Recently, Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah has been featured in the international press for his efforts to establish multiple centers of learning, with a mixed-gender Western model.\n\nPost-independence Challenges:\n\nProblems in expanding access to education were common to all MENA countries in the post-independence years. Affordable education did not necessarily reduce the number of uneducated children as a result of the population boom. Similarly, the educational system proved to be inadequate as classrooms, led by overworked and often underqualified teachers, were crowded with children. Students who moved through the strictly exam-based system were, and often continue to be, ill-equipped with skills necessary for university-level education and employment.\n\nOther problems emerged as the state attempted to unify multiple systems under the state: European-style and Islamic, public and private, instruction in Arabic and others in a foreign language, usually French or English. As a result, while some Islamic schools were closed, others became part of larger universities. As an example, the \"Zaytuna\", a traditional Islamic school in Tunis, was incorporated to the school of \"Shari'a\" of the University of Tunis.\n\nAnother pattern seen under post-colonial government control of education was the Arabization of educational institutions. Schools that during colonial rule taught through the medium of a foreign language, began to teach in Arabic. As a consequence, students' opportunities to master a foreign language decreased in countries such as Syria where introduction to a European second language occurred only in the secondary schools, not during primary education.\n\nStudents who wanted to pursue their studies abroad had to rely on family wealth or government scholarships. Those who were not able to master a foreign language faced serious obstacles. However, as the best-quality education could only be obtained in private schools, a wealthy educated élite remained. The intelligentsia class continued to master foreign languages and to enjoy employment advantages. By contrast, the larger part of society had to rely on the government's educational facilities and dwindling opportunities in public sector positions.\n\nWomen in Post-colonial Societies:\n\nThe spread of education in the region has engendered many social changes that influenced the position of women in MENA countries. Most importantly, even in the conservative regimes, women had access to education.\nThroughout the region, while the percentage of girls in primary schools was as important as that of boys, female access to higher education was steadily rising. Correspondingly, due to their improved level of literacy, educated women could work as lawyers, doctors, and employees in social services. In countries such as Tunisia and Iraq where the state governments were willing to rapidly modernize their societies, women\n\nA report by Strategic Foresight Group has mentioned the academic cost of conflict in the Middle East. After the 2003 US war in Iraq, there has been a deliberate targeting of educational establishments by militants. In 2007, 353 academics were assassinated. Almost 800,000 children are currently out of school, and over 3,000 academics have fled the country. Over 30% of children and 40% of university students stay at home due to fear, and paucity of schools near them.\n\nIn the Lebanon 2006 war, Lebanese children were some of the worst affected, where 33% of all civilian deaths were children and 390,000 children were displaced. 40,000 children had their education disrupted during the war, with over 300 schools having been damaged.\n\nMore than 1,300 Palestinians schools have been disrupted by curfews, and closures.\n\nAs a result of government investment in education, the average of educational attainment of the labor force increased. Though mostly regarded as a symbol of national achievement rather than a financial goal, high literacy rates had more than doubled in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa in the period spanning from 1960 to 1995. Despite the improvement of literacy levels in the region, there was a discrepancy between the countries with a significant urban population in which literacy rates had marked a steady increase and the predominantly rural countries where the percentage of illiteracy was remarkably high.\n\nDue to the rising number of young students, especially in rural areas, countries such as Yemen, Egypt and Morocco face a serious obstacle towards achieving universal basic education. In Egypt, guaranteeing education for those aged below 15 is an enormous challenge as more than third of its population is between 6 and 14 with a concentration in rural areas. In the mountainous areas of Yemen, despite substantial efforts to build new schools or repair existing ones, classes may meet outdoors.\n\nFurther attempts at raising literacy rates are being processed in the MENA region with a particular emphasis on educating women in rural areas where the level of illiteracy in general is high especially among females. According to the World Bank report in 1999, in the rural areas of Morocco, only one woman out of ten can read and write. The United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization reported that over seventy-five million women and forty-five million men across the Middle East and North Africa region were illiterate.\n\nThe quality of education is a crucial issue in economic development. In order to evaluate the quality of education, it is important to understand and evaluate its impacts. Such a process can be through comparative studies both within the MENA region and internationally. However, as only Iran and Jordan have participated in recent international assessment studies, the available data on the quality of education in the MENA region is very low. Both Jordan, which participated in the 1991 International Assessment of Educational Progress, and Iran, which did so in the 1995 Third International Mathematics and Sciences Study, showed a very low level in math and science but with a greatest increase from 1995 to 2011. \n\nMore importantly, educational systems in MENA do not strongly rely on the inculcation of cognitive problem-solving skills. They are rather encouraged to memorize answers to a limited number of problems in order to pass one exam after another. As a result, they are rewarded for being passive rather than active learners, and in the end graduate into a job-market that values creativity and problem-solving, partially explaining the staggering 25% youth unemployment rate in the Middle East, the highest of any region worldwide. The costs of youth exclusion, including youth unemployment, have been estimated to reach as high as US$53 billion in Egypt (17% of GDP) and US$1.5 billion in Jordan (7% of GDP).\n\nSome indicators, such as the available sources of data on individual students or the patterns of expenditure in primary schools, can be helpful in determining the quality of education in MENA. In many MENA primary schools, students have access to a single textbook in every subject each year. This implies that the book itself is the only source of information. Correspondingly, the development of cognitive skills tends to be slow and depends on the student's personal efforts to assimilate new information, hence progress. In addition, such a process can even be slower because of the absence of other reading materials and video programs that may provide further illustrations and make the studied topic clear and understandable.\n\nFrom a different perspective, countries in the Persian Gulf states spent four times more on students in higher education than on students in basic school. Tunisia, Jordan, and Morocco spent correspondingly about 8, 14, and 15 times more on a student in university than on a student in compulsory education. Though it might be argued that this is due to the costs of higher education, governments that spend more than ten times per student in higher education tend to ignore the importance of compulsory education's importance in personal and intellectual development.\n\nIn the Arab world, the low quality of the educational system is not due to the lack of funding but results from the inadequate management of the available monetary resources directed at improving education in the region. The Education Performance Index(EPI) that measures the quality of education in the developing countries conveyed a discrepancy between the different countries in the region. They varied in the ways of exploiting the advantages of economic potential for the benefit of their people. Countries such as Tunisia succeeded in investing more than six per cent of its GNP in free public education. As a consequence, more than 1.4 million students could enjoy a free and compulsory education in 1991.\nIn other countries such as Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, despite the available financial resources, basic education was not improved. This can be interpreted as being the result of the low net enrollment rate. Moreover, while the gender gap in compulsory education in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait is not very high, Qatar suffers a gender gap of 20 per cent in students enrollment in basic education.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Arab Human Development Report, “the most worrying aspect of the crisis in education is education’s inability to provide the requirements for the development of Arab societies.”\nDespite that both secondary and higher education are regarded as the most suitable sources that provide training and expertise for the future labor force, access to colleges or universities is still limited. In cases when education is available, it suffers from the low quality of its educational system, lack of educational materials or qualified teachers. \n\nThe financial problem emanates from the region itself: the intervention of government to provide a free education has started to become burdensome as result of the increasing number of students who complete their basic education and seek to further their studies. As a result, the central government faces the challenge to control the unsustainable cost of providing free education for the ever rising number of students and doing so at different educational levels.\n\nFrom a different perspective, in the MENA region, despite intensive governmental investments in education in order to improve the efficiency of education and rise the level of academic achievement, the quality of education remains a problem. According to the 1995 World Education Report, although females access to education in the MENA is low when compared to male enrolment rates, the low quality of educational systems in the region affects both males and females. \"There remains a pressing quality problem in terms of educational outcomes in the region, with pedagogical methods remaining largely focused on rote memorization rather than applied problem solving and assessment methods.\" \n\nOne way to explain such phenomenon could be to argue that educational management have not witnessed substantial changes and reforms since the post-independence period. In fact, during the 1950s and the 1960s, educational systems were framed and planned in accordance with the demands of state industries, agriculture and services. The central government used to anticipate the required skills for the future employees before deciding and planning the different educational specializations. No less important, the number of new workers was also determined. Manpower forecasts had to predict the number of employees required in every field prior to students' graduation and completion of secondary or higher education.\n\nSimilarly, access to higher education was also monitored by government. Very often programs open and close according to governmental planning and in accordance with market demands. Also, the centralized planning helped to determine the necessary technical, manual or professional services that lead to the nation's economic growth. Thereupon, the mobility across specialization was not flexible. In addition, as there was more emphasis on skilled manual and technical professions, academic training was considered irrelevant.\nFurthermore, entry to the specialized universities of medicine required the acquisition of specific academic experiences taught in specialized secondary schools located in the cities. Consequently, students who lived in urban areas could attend privileged educational institutions. However, students from rural areas very often cannot enjoy the same educational advantages. Most of those willing to continue their education at a higher level are concentrated in the over-crowded technical schools or universities of humanities and social sciences. \"Educational outcomes have not provided youth with the skills sought out by private sector employers in the region.\"\n\nThe right to education is regarded as necessary for women in the Middle East and North Africa. The importance of education for women is to enable them become good mothers for the future and active members in society. While some women perceive that education is their gateway to a better life in which they are able to understand their human rights and subsequently protect themselves against gender discrimination, others believe that educated women are more successful in raising a new generation.\n\nIn the first half of the 1990s Muslim states increased girls enrollment in primary schools by two per cent, a rate four times higher than the average rate of school-age girls enrollment in developing countries. The rise of girls participation in primary schools aimed at wiping the widespread claims that Islamic rules restricted female access to education.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Iran, the primary school enrollment rate for girls has increased from 80 to 96 per cent in 1986. Similarly, in rural areas, girls enrollment in primary schools has climbed from 60 to 80 per cent in the late 1990s. In the case of Iran, political commitment to achieve a universal compulsory education in Iran has influenced educational quality. Correspondingly, gender gap in school enrollment has significantly decreased.\n\nIn addition, several regimes in the Arab world have stressed the importance to improve female's access to education and attempted to reduce gender gaps at different educational levels. Indeed, it is predicted that by the year 2010, Arab countries can reach 70 per cent of literacy rate as result of the sustained improvement of education especially with regards to women. Tunisia stands as an illustrative example of a successful policy that has started in 1956. It aimed at reducing gender gaps. The government's liberal policy towards women has influenced women's status in the country and reduced gender inequality in access to education.\n\nThe significant shifts in girls enrollment rates in compulsory schools were experienced by other countries in the MENA region. From 1960 to 1988, girls enrollment rates in Syria, Libya and Iraq have climbed correspondingly from 44 per cent to 94 per cent(Syria), from 26 to 90 per cent (Libya) and from 39 to 88 per cent(Iraq).\nAccording to the World Bank, the wider gender gaps across the MENA region are found in Yemen, Morocco and Egypt. In Egypt, more than 600.000 girls aged between 6 and 10 do not go to school. The majority of these uneducated girls are concentrated in rural areas, especially in Upper Egypt. Such phenomenon resulted from the low quality of the national educational system and its provided services in rural areas. This was also backed with the socioeconomic difficulties in the rural areas of Egypt where it is very difficult to afford for basic educational materials.\n\nStephan P.Heyneman identifies six major areas for change:\n\n1-meaningful compulsory education:\n\nA meaningful compulsory education implies the necessity to treat 'basic education' and 'compulsory education' equally. This means that education should be universal during the period of compulsory basic education. Compulsory education needs to be universal for all children regardless of their social class, gender, or ethnic group. Such a process requires the redefinition of examinations goals. This signifies that exams need to be used as an evaluative tool rather than a means by which students are selected according to their memorization skills.\n\n2-coherent quality assurance mechanisms:\n\nThere are four mechanisms that enable the assessment of education's quality. They include \"curricular objectives, examinations and other assessment, teaching materials and classroom teaching\". However, in the MENA region, schools lack the resources to facilitate fulfilling educational goals. For instance, textbooks are inadequately organized in ways that do not consider students' varying educational capabilities. Consequently, the coordination between curricular objectives, mechanisms used by teachers, and appropriate selection of examinations can be efficient in conveying a functional and coherent educational system.\n\n3-professionalization of teachers:\n\nIn the MENA region, teachers are not selected for their competence, creativity, and teaching performance. Rather, they are identified by virtue of their educational attainment. However, salary scales do not differ between teachers at different levels of experience. This very fact has discouraged proactive improvement of teaching and subsequently has reduced the quality of teaching in general.\nAn effective solution to such a challenge would be to introduce continuing evaluations and examinations in order to assess teachers' performance in the classroom. Instructors who succeed in these evaluative examinations may move to a higher salary scale. This process would not only motivate teachers to perform but would positively influence the quality of education in general.\n\n4-educational materials:\n\nIn the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, there is a general consensus that educational facilities are rare and inappropriately used. However, due to the changing nature of market demand, there is an urge necessity to provide students with professional and technical skills. Indeed, introducing computer software educational programs should be encouraged, organized and implemented. It is suggested that such a process would produce an up-to-date educational system that produces an internationally competitive labor force. Consequently, this does not only improve the quality of education but also creates a valuable and efficient work force.\n\n5-higher education:\n\nMost MENA countries have not changed the policies whereby they manage their higher education since the intervention times of central governments in the 1960s and 1970s. In other terms, the financing and delivery procedures have been identical for more than thirty years. This explains the reason why the quality of higher education has decreased. Nevertheless, in order to avoid such state of stagnation in higher educational institutions, there is a need to improve educational delivery materials through the use of modernized teaching strategies, raising access to higher education while providing both qualitative and structural reforms.\n\n6-educational information:\n\nInformation about the quality of education in MENA is scarce and the available data is often inadequate and unreliable. Nevertheless, in order to be able to adapt to the global open market, governments in the region need to encourage the use of statistics and different data analysis tools that aim at uncovering the status of education for both local responsible authorities and international bodies. Such a process allows an effective assessment and evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of education in the region. Conversely, as a result of the shortage of information about these evaluative data, it is very difficult to determine the reasons for the failure of educational systems in MENA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12279653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12279653", "title": "Educator Astronaut Project", "text": "Educator Astronaut Project\n\nThe Educator Astronaut Project is a NASA program designed to educate students and spur excitement in math, science, and space exploration. It is a successor to the Teacher in Space Project of the 1980s that was cancelled after the death of Christa McAuliffe in the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster (STS-51-L). NASA halted the teachers project amid concerns surrounding the risk of sending civilians to space.\n\nIn the 1990s, NASA created the Educator Astronaut Project, which carries on the objectives of the Teacher in Space Program -- seeking to elevate teaching as a profession and inspire students. Unlike the Teacher in Space Program, educator astronauts are fully trained astronauts who do the same jobs and duties that any other astronaut does. They fly as crew members with critical mission responsibilities, as well as education-related goals. In addition to their technical assignments, they assist other astronauts in connecting to students and teachers through space exploration.\n\nJoseph M. Acaba, Richard R. Arnold and Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger were selected as the first Educator Mission Specialists in the 2004 class. Both Acaba and Arnold were part of the crew of STS-119, a Space Shuttle mission to the International Space Station (ISS) which was flown by Space Shuttle \"Discovery\" in March 2009. Metcalf-Lindenburger flew on STS-131 in April 2010, also visiting the ISS aboard Space Shuttle \"Discovery\".\n\nBarbara Morgan, the backup to Christa McAuliffe in the Teacher in Space Project, remained involved with NASA after the \"Challenger\" disaster and continued to work with NASA’s Education Division until her selection as a Mission Specialist in 1998. Morgan completed two years of astronaut training and evaluation, and began official duties in 2000. Morgan became the first former teacher to travel to space on STS-118. While NASA press releases and media briefings often referred to her as a \"Mission Specialist Educator\" or \"Educator Astronaut\", Morgan did not train in the Educator Astronaut Project. NASA Administrator Michael D. Griffin clarified at a press conference after STS-118 that Morgan was not considered a Mission Specialist Educator, but rather was a standard Mission Specialist, who had once been a teacher. Morgan's duties as a Mission Specialist were no different from other Shuttle Mission Specialists.\n"}
{"id": "40494992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40494992", "title": "Elementary Teachers of Toronto", "text": "Elementary Teachers of Toronto\n\nThe Elementary Teachers of Toronto (ETT) is a Canadian labour union and the Toronto-local of the Elementary Teachers' Federation of Ontario. The organization's members are the full-time public elementary teachers employed by the Toronto District School Board (TDSB).\n\nThe local was formed in June 1998 through the merger of 13 former Toronto elementary teacher locals.\n\nThe organization is a governed by a member-approved constitution.\n\nThe business of the local is conducted by an elected executive, composed of three Table Officers (President, Vice-President, and Secretary/Treasurer) and 11 Executive Officers. Each Executive Officer represents two of the TDSB's 22 Wards. Officers are elected for two-year terms. The current president is Joy Lachica.\n\nMembers are also represented by Regional Councillors (two per TDSB Ward) and at least one Steward per school. Both representatives liaise between teachers and Executive Officers.\n\nETT is represented on the board of the Toronto & York Region Labour Council.\n\nIn response to the passage of the Putting Students First Act (Bill 115), by the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, the membership of the Elementary Teachers of Toronto engaged in several forms of organized protest, including, most notably, a one-day strike action on December 18, 2012.\n\nOn December 18, 2012, Toronto public elementary teachers participated in a one-day strike action to protest Bill 115 and the legislation’s perceived negative impact on local collective bargaining.\nThe walkout closed 474 schools in Toronto, affecting 173,480 elementary students. An estimated 12,000 Toronto public elementary teachers engaged in the labour action.\n\nThe strike was dubbed \"Super Tuesday\" in the media, due to its size and scope.\n\nOn January 15, 2013, Toronto-local members organized a protest in front of the Ontario Ministry of Education building, on Bay Street. The rally drew hundreds of protestors, forcing police to divert traffic and close down part of the street.\n\nThe Toronto-local, in coordination with the other public elementary teacher locals in the GTA, held a demonstration on January 25, 2013 on Carlton Street in front of Maple Leaf Gardens, the site of the Ontario Liberal Party leadership election, 2013. The size of protest, estimated in the hundreds, prompted police to close a section of Carlton Street outside the convention.\n\nIn January 2015, the Ontario Ministry of Education released a report indicating that 84 TDSB elementary schools fell under the ministry’s definition of underutilized (less than 65 per cent capacity), and could potentially be closed. The TDSB, following directives from Ontario Minister of Education Liz Sandals, conducted its own review, refining the list of underutilized elementary schools to 48.\n\nETT reviewed the 48 elementary schools highlighted by the TDSB using the data collected by the board to rank schools by external challenges to students (family income, levels of social assistance, family education, and preponderance of lone parent families). ETT’s report concluded that the majority of the schools being considered for closure fell within the areas of Toronto the TDSB considers to be the poorest and to have the fewest learning opportunities.\n\n"}
{"id": "10374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10374", "title": "Essay", "text": "Essay\n\nAn essay is, generally, a piece of writing that gives the author's own argument — but the definition is vague, overlapping with those of a paper, an article, a pamphlet, and a short story. Essays have traditionally been sub-classified as formal and informal. Formal essays are characterized by \"serious purpose, dignity, logical organization, length,\" whereas the informal essay is characterized by \"the personal element (self-revelation, individual tastes and experiences, confidential manner), humor, graceful style, rambling structure, unconventionality or novelty of theme,\" etc.\n\nEssays are commonly used as literary criticism, political manifestos, learned arguments, observations of daily life, recollections, and reflections of the author. Almost all modern essays are written in prose, but works in verse have been dubbed essays (e.g., Alexander Pope's \"An Essay on Criticism\" and \"An Essay on Man\"). While brevity usually defines an essay, voluminous works like John Locke's \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" and Thomas Malthus's \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" are counterexamples.\n\nIn some countries (e.g., the United States and Canada), essays have become a major part of formal education. Secondary students are taught structured essay formats to improve their writing skills; admission essays are often used by universities in selecting applicants, and in the humanities and social sciences essays are often used as a way of assessing the performance of students during final exams.\n\nThe concept of an \"essay\" has been extended to other media beyond writing. A film essay is a movie that often incorporates documentary filmmaking styles and focuses more on the evolution of a theme or idea. A photographic essay covers a topic with a linked series of photographs that may have accompanying text or captions.\n\nAn essay has been defined in a variety of ways. One definition is a \"prose composition with a focused subject of discussion\" or a \"long, systematic discourse\".\nIt is difficult to define the genre into which essays fall. Aldous Huxley, a leading essayist, gives guidance on the subject. He notes that \"the essay is a literary device for saying almost everything about almost anything\", and adds that \"by tradition, almost by definition, the essay is a short piece\". Furthermore, Huxley argues that \"essays belong to a literary species whose extreme variability can be studied most effectively within a three-poled frame of reference\". \nThese three poles (or worlds in which the essay may exist) are:\nHuxley adds that the most satisfying essays \"...make the best not of one, not of two, but of all the three worlds in which it is possible for the essay to exist.\"\n\nThe word \"essay\" derives from the French infinitive \"essayer\", \"to try\" or \"to attempt\". In English \"essay\" first meant \"a trial\" or \"an attempt\", and this is still an alternative meaning. The Frenchman Michel de Montaigne (1533–1592) was the first author to describe his work as essays; he used the term to characterize these as \"attempts\" to put his thoughts into writing, and his essays grew out of his commonplacing. Inspired in particular by the works of Plutarch, a translation of whose \"Œuvres Morales\" (\"Moral works\") into French had just been published by Jacques Amyot, Montaigne began to compose his essays in 1572; the first edition, entitled \"Essais\", was published in two volumes in 1580. For the rest of his life, he continued revising previously published essays and composing new ones. Francis Bacon's essays, published in book form in 1597, 1612, and 1625, were the first works in English that described themselves as \"essays\". Ben Jonson first used the word \"essayist\" in English in 1609, according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\nEnglish essayists included Robert Burton (1577–1641) and Sir Thomas Browne (1605–1682). In France, Michel de Montaigne's three volume \"Essais\" in the mid 1500s contain over 100 examples widely regarded as the predecessor of the modern essay. In Italy, Baldassare Castiglione wrote about courtly manners in his essay \"Il Cortigiano\". In the 17th century, the Jesuit Baltasar Gracián wrote about the theme of wisdom. During the Age of Enlightenment, essays were a favored tool of polemicists who aimed at convincing readers of their position; they also featured heavily in the rise of periodical literature, as seen in the works of Joseph Addison, Richard Steele and Samuel Johnson. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Edmund Burke and Samuel Taylor Coleridge wrote essays for the general public. The early 19th century, in particular, saw a proliferation of great essayists in English – William Hazlitt, Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt and Thomas de Quincey all penned numerous essays on diverse subjects. In the 20th century, a number of essayists tried to explain the new movements in art and culture by using essays (e.g., T.S. Eliot). Whereas some essayists used essays for strident political themes, Robert Louis Stevenson and Willa Cather wrote lighter essays. Virginia Woolf, Edmund Wilson, and Charles du Bos wrote literary criticism essays.\n\nAs with the novel, essays existed in Japan several centuries before they developed in Europe with a genre of essays known as \"zuihitsu\" — loosely connected essays and fragmented ideas. Zuihitsu have existed since almost the beginnings of Japanese literature. Many of the most noted early works of Japanese literature are in this genre. Notable examples include \"The Pillow Book\" (c. 1000), by court lady Sei Shōnagon, and \"Tsurezuregusa\" (1330), by particularly renowned Japanese Buddhist monk Yoshida Kenkō. Kenkō described his short writings similarly to Montaigne, referring to them as \"nonsensical thoughts\" written in \"idle hours\". Another noteworthy difference from Europe is that women have traditionally written in Japan, though the more formal, Chinese-influenced writings of male writers were more prized at the time.\n\nThis section describes the different forms and styles of essay writing. These forms and styles are used by an array of authors, including university students and professional essayists.\n\nThe defining features of a \"cause and effect\" essay are causal chains that connect from a cause to an effect, careful language, and chronological or emphatic order. A writer using this rhetorical method must consider the subject, determine the purpose, consider the audience, think critically about different causes or consequences, consider a thesis statement, arrange the parts, consider the language, and decide on a conclusion.\n\nClassification is the categorization of objects into a larger whole while division is the breaking of a larger whole into smaller parts.\n\nCompare and contrast essays are characterized by a basis for comparison, points of comparison, and analogies. It is grouped by the object (chunking) or by point (sequential). The comparison highlights the similarities between two or more similar objects while contrasting highlights the differences between two or more objects. When writing a compare/contrast essay, writers need to determine their purpose, consider their audience, consider the basis and points of comparison, consider their thesis statement, arrange and develop the comparison, and reach a conclusion. Compare and contrast is arranged emphatically.\n\nExpository essay is used to inform, describe or explain a topic, using important facts and teaching reader about the topic. Mostly written in third-person, using \"it\", \"he\", \"she\", \"they\". Expository essay uses formal language to discuss someone or something. Examples of expository essays are: a medical or biological condition, social or technological process, life or character of a famous person. Writing of expository essay often consists of following next steps: organizing thoughts (brainstorming), researching a topic, developing a thesis statement, writing the introduction, writing the body of essay, writing the conclusion. Expository essays are often assigned as a part of SAT and other standardized testings or as a homework for high school and college students.\n\nDescriptive writing is characterized by sensory details, which appeal to the physical senses, and details that appeal to a reader's emotional, physical, or intellectual sensibilities. Determining the purpose, considering the audience, creating a dominant impression, using descriptive language, and organizing the description are the rhetorical choices to consider when using a description. A description is usually arranged spatially but can also be chronological or emphatic. The focus of a description is the scene. Description uses tools such as denotative language, connotative language, figurative language, metaphor, and simile to arrive at a dominant impression. One university essay guide states that \"descriptive writing says what happened or what another author has discussed; it provides an account of the topic\".\nLyric essays are an important form of descriptive essays.\n\nIn the dialectic form of the essay, which is commonly used in philosophy, the writer makes a thesis and argument, then objects to their own argument (with a counterargument), but then counters the counterargument with a final and novel argument. This form benefits from presenting a broader perspective while countering a possible flaw that some may present. This type is sometimes called an ethics paper.\n\nAn exemplification essay is characterized by a generalization and relevant, representative, and believable examples including anecdotes. Writers need to consider their subject, determine their purpose, consider their audience, decide on specific examples, and arrange all the parts together when writing an exemplification essay.\nAn essayist writes a \"familiar essay\" if speaking to a single reader, writing about both themselves, and about particular subjects. Anne Fadiman notes that \"the genre's heyday was the early nineteenth century,\" and that its greatest exponent was Charles Lamb. She also suggests that while critical essays have more brain than the heart, and personal essays have more heart than brain, familiar essays have equal measures of both.\n\nA history essay sometimes referred to as a thesis essay describes an argument or claim about one or more historical events and supports that claim with evidence, arguments, and references. The text makes it clear to the reader why the argument or claim is as such.\n\nA narrative uses tools such as flashbacks, flash-forwards, and transitions that often build to a climax. The focus of a narrative is the plot. When creating a narrative, authors must determine their purpose, consider their audience, establish their point of view, use dialogue, and organize the narrative. A narrative is usually arranged chronologically.\n\nAn argumentative essay is a critical piece of writing, aimed at presenting objective analysis of the subject matter, narrowed down to a single topic. The main idea of all the criticism is to provide an opinion either of positive or negative implication. As such, a critical essay requires research and analysis, strong internal logic and sharp structure. Its structure normally builds around introduction with a topic's relevance and a thesis statement, body paragraphs with arguments linking back to the main thesis, and conclusion. In addition, an argumentative essay may include a refutation section where conflicting ideas are acknowledged, described, and criticized. Each argument of argumentative essay should be supported with sufficient evidence, relevant to the point.\n\nA process essay is used for an explanation of making or breaking something. Often, it is written in chronological order or numerical order to show step-by-step processes. It has all the qualities of a technical document with the only difference is that it is often written in descriptive mood, while a technical document is mostly in imperative mood.\n\nAn economic essay can start with a thesis, or it can start with a theme. It can take a narrative course and a descriptive course. It can even become an argumentative essay if the author feels the need. After the introduction, the author has to do his/her best to expose the economic matter at hand, to analyze it, evaluate it, and draw a conclusion. If the essay takes more of a narrative form then the author has to expose each aspect of the economic puzzle in a way that makes it clear and understandable for the reader\n\nA \"reflective essay\" is an analytical piece of writing in which the writer describes a real or imaginary scene, event, interaction, passing thought, memory, or form — adding a personal reflection on the meaning of the topic in the author's life. Thus, the focus is not merely descriptive. The writer doesn’t just describe the situation, but revisits the scene with more detail and emotion to examine what went well, or reveal a need for additional learning — and may relate what transpired to the rest of the author's life.\n\nThe logical progression and organizational structure of an essay can take many forms. Understanding how the movement of thought is managed through an essay has a profound impact on its overall cogency and ability to impress. A number of alternative logical structures for essays have been visualized as diagrams, making them easy to implement or adapt in the construction of an argument.\n\nIn countries like the United States and the United Kingdom, essays have become a major part of a formal education in the form of free response questions. Secondary students in these countries are taught structured essay formats to improve their writing skills, and essays are often used by universities in these countries in selecting applicants (\"see\" admissions essay). In both secondary and tertiary education, essays are used to judge the mastery and comprehension of the material. Students are asked to explain, comment on, or assess a topic of study in the form of an essay. In some courses, university students must complete one or more essays over several weeks or months. In addition, in fields such as the humanities and social sciences, mid-term and end of term examinations often require students to write a short essay in two or three hours.\n\nIn these countries, so-called academic essays also called \"papers\", are usually more formal than literary ones. They may still allow the presentation of the writer's own views, but this is done in a logical and factual manner, with the use of the first person often discouraged. Longer academic essays (often with a word limit of between 2,000 and 5,000 words) are often more discursive. They sometimes begin with a short summary analysis of what has previously been written on a topic, which is often called a literature review.\n\nLonger essays may also contain an introductory page that defines words and phrases of the essay's topic. Most academic institutions require that all substantial facts, quotations, and other supporting material in an essay be referenced in a bibliography or works cited page at the end of the text. This scholarly convention helps others (whether teachers or fellow scholars) to understand the basis of facts and quotations the author uses to support the essay's argument and helps readers evaluate to what extent the argument is supported by evidence, and to evaluate the quality of that evidence. The academic essay tests the student's ability to present their thoughts in an organized way and is designed to test their intellectual capabilities.\n\nOne of the challenges facing universities is that in some cases, students may submit essays purchased from an essay mill (or \"paper mill\") as their own work. An \"essay mill\" is a ghostwriting service that sells pre-written essays to university and college students. Since plagiarism is a form of academic dishonesty or academic fraud, universities and colleges may investigate papers they suspect are from an essay mill by using plagiarism detection software, which compares essays against a database of known mill essays and by orally testing students on the contents of their papers.\n\nEssays often appear in magazines, especially magazines with an intellectual bent, such as \"The Atlantic\" and \"Harpers\". Magazine and newspaper essays use many of the essay types described in the section on forms and styles (e.g., descriptive essays, narrative essays, etc.). Some newspapers also print essays in the op-ed section.\nEmployment essays detailing experience in a certain occupational field are required when applying for some jobs, especially government jobs in the United States. Essays known as Knowledge Skills and Executive Core Qualifications are required when applying to certain US federal government positions.\n\nA KSA, or \"Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities,\" is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to Federal government job openings in the United States. KSAs are used along with resumes to determine who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job. The knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the successful performance of a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement. KSAs are brief and focused essays about one's career and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for.\n\nAn Executive Core Qualification, or ECQ, is a narrative statement that is required when applying to Senior Executive Service positions within the US Federal government. Like the KSAs, ECQs are used along with resumes to determine who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job. The Office of Personnel Management has established five executive core qualifications that all applicants seeking to enter the Senior Executive Service must demonstrate.\n\nA film essay (or \"cinematic essay\") consists of the evolution of a theme or an idea rather than a plot per se, or the film literally being a cinematic accompaniment to a narrator reading an essay. From another perspective, an essay film could be defined as a documentary film visual basis combined with a form of commentary that contains elements of self-portrait (rather than autobiography), where the signature (rather than the life story) of the filmmaker is apparent. The cinematic essay often blends documentary, fiction, and experimental film making using tones and editing styles.\n\nThe genre is not well-defined but might include propaganda works of early Soviet parliamentarians like Dziga Vertov, present-day filmmakers including Chris Marker, Michael Moore (\"Roger & Me\" (1989), \"Bowling for Columbine\" (2002) and \"Fahrenheit 9/11\" (2004)), Errol Morris (\"The Thin Blue Line\" (1988)), Morgan Spurlock (\"Supersize Me: A Film of Epic Portions\") and Agnès Varda. Jean-Luc Godard describes his recent work as \"film-essays\". Two filmmakers whose work was the antecedent to the cinematic essay include Georges Méliès and Bertolt Brecht. Méliès made a short film (\"The Coronation of Edward VII\" (1902)) about the 1902 coronation of King Edward VII, which mixes actual footage with shots of a recreation of the event. Brecht was a playwright who experimented with film and incorporated film projections into some of his plays. Orson Welles made an essay film in his own pioneering style, released in 1974, called \"F for Fake\", which dealt specifically with art forger Elmyr de Hory and with the themes of deception, \"fakery,\" and authenticity in general. These are often published online on video hosting services.\n\nDavid Winks Gray's article \"The essay film in action\" states that the \"essay film became an identifiable form of filmmaking in the 1950s and '60s\". He states that since that time, essay films have tended to be \"on the margins\" of the filmmaking the world. Essay films have a \"peculiar searching, questioning tone ... between documentary and fiction\" but without \"fitting comfortably\" into either genre. Gray notes that just like written essays, essay films \"tend to marry the personal voice of a guiding narrator (often the director) with a wide swath of other voices\". The University of Wisconsin Cinematheque website echoes some of Gray's comments; it calls a film essay an \"intimate and allusive\" genre that \"catches filmmakers in a pensive mood, ruminating on the margins between fiction and documentary\" in a manner that is \"refreshingly inventive, playful, and idiosyncratic\".\n\nIn the realm of music, composer Samuel Barber wrote a set of \"Essays for Orchestra,\" relying on the form and content of the music to guide the listener's ear, rather than any extra-musical plot or story.\n\nA photographic essay strives to cover a topic with a linked series of photographs. Photo essays range from purely photographic works to photographs with captions or small notes to full-text essays with a few or many accompanying photographs. Photo essays can be sequential in nature, intended to be viewed in a particular order — or they may consist of non-ordered photographs viewed all at once or in an order that the viewer chooses. All photo essays are collections of photographs, but not all collections of photographs are photo essays. Photo essays often address a certain issue or attempt to capture the character of places and events.\nIn the visual arts, an essay is a preliminary drawing or sketch that forms a basis for a final painting or sculpture, made as a test of the work's composition (this meaning of the term, like several of those following, comes from the word \"essay\"'s meaning of \"attempt\" or \"trial\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11505986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11505986", "title": "Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy", "text": "Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy\n\nThe Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy (FIEA) is a graduate school of the College of Arts and Humanities at the University of Central Florida located in Orlando, Florida, United States. The director of the school is Ben Noel, former vice president and chief operating officer of EA's Orlando-based Tiburon studio.\n\nFIEA is a graduate video game development school offering an accredited master's degree in interactive entertainment. Areas of study include game design, art, programming and production. The Academy is located at UCF's Center For Emerging Media, which also houses other graduate and undergraduate programs in art, architecture, digital media, and film. FIEA was established in 2004 by UCF's School of Film and Digital Media and industry partners, and accepted its first class of students in Fall of 2005. The site of FIEA was formerly the downtown Expo Centre until late 2004 when the city of Orlando leased the building to the University. The building is now called the UCF Center For Emerging Media.\n\nFIEA follows a nonstandard educational philosophy which centers on the simulation of a professional video game development environment. The configuration of the building and course work is designed to reinforce this approach. Team-based work combining the efforts of students from the school's three primary disciplines of art, programming, and production is encouraged at all times. A capstone video game creation project for each class of students forms the focus of the second and third semesters of work, comprising pre-production and production phases, respectively.\n\nFIEA's first class of twelve students graduated in December 2006. It has now graduated more than 537 students who have been hired by more than 135 companies worldwide. Recent graduates have accepted jobs at Zynga, Sony, Electronic Arts, Google, YouTube, Bethesda, BioWare, Telltale Games, and many others.\n\nGames developed at FIEA:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34523125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34523125", "title": "Francis Aveling", "text": "Francis Aveling\n\nFrancis Arthur Powell Aveling DD D.Sc PhD DLit MC \nComC (25 December 1875 – 6 March 1941) was a Canadian psychologist and Roman Catholic priest. He married Ethel Dancy of Steyning, Sussex in 1925.\n\nAveling went to Bishop Ridley College in Ontario, before studying at McGill University in Quebec, Keble College at Oxford University, England, and the Canadian College Rome (Pontificio Collegio Canadese). There he earned his doctor of divinity degree. In 1910, Aveling obtained a doctor of philosophy degree at the age of 35 years from the University of Louvain (his advisor was Michotte), and in 1912 he was recipient of a doctor of science degree from the University of London, and received the Carpenter Medal following his work \"On the Consciousness of the Universal and the Individual: A Contribution to the Phenomenology of the Thought Process\". Subsequently, Aveling received his doctor of letters degree from the University of London.\n\nAveling taught at University College, London from 1912 as a Lecturer (Assistant Professor), under the leadership of Charles Spearman, until the First World War. During that war he served in France as a chaplain in the British Army, after which he returned to the University of London. In 1922, he transferred to King's College, London where he was promoted to reader (associate professor), and later to professor of psychology. Aveling authored several books. He was the doctoral advisor of Raymond Cattell From 1926 until 1929, Aveling was also a president of the British Psychological Society. Aveling was a member of the Council of the International Congresses, of the Aristotelian Society, of the council and advisory board of the National Institute of Industrial Psychology, of the council of the British Institute of Philosophical Studies and of the Child Guidance Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56826282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56826282", "title": "IClassical Foundation", "text": "IClassical Foundation\n\niClassical Foundation is a non-profit organisation organised according to the Swiss law, it is domiciled in Crans-Montana. The foundation is committed to producing educational online video tools for musicians, in particular master classes. All operational activities are delegated to iClassical Academy Ltd.\n\nThe goal is to encourage and enable a generation of young and talented musicians, as well as professionals, teachers and amateurs to enhance their skills and become artists who share their music with audiences all over the world. Moreover, it strives to connect them with some of the world's most accomplished teachers.\n\nFor the time being, the focus is on master classes for piano, violin, cello, and trumpet.\n\nThe website and its content are provided in english.\n\nThe mission of iClassical Academy is to provide young musicians from around the world with the opportunity of improving their skills and being appreciated by wider audiences. Advanced students often find themselves excluded from masterclasses because of lack of funds. Additionally, many music schools in emerging countries are unable to afford the cost of employing the best quality teachers. The credo is: \"\"We believe that anyone at any time should have access to very good music teachers\".\n\niClassical Academy works as a club. Memberships is free for access to previews and special content. Access to all masterclasses and webinars requires a fee.\n\nSo far, tradition has almost always been to show online the filming of a masterclass for students in the classroom or on the stage. iClassical Academy departs from this in order to have the masterclasses divided into tutorials as well as a separate performance of the student. Their focus is on the teaching part instead of showing a masterclass in its integrality. The motivation is that online teaching according to iClassical Academy should have a different scope that is more focused on the viewer at home. The academy has also introduced the slow motion tool for its videos. It plans to introduce the multicamera tool. They will allow the student to see the hands' positions on the instrument from different angles.\n\nEdgar Cohen, a native of France is a Medical Doctor, an entrepreneur and passionate about classical music and art. In 2011 he came up with the idea of creating a website to make classical music masterclasses available all over the world, by collaborating with well known professors and artists. He currently lives in Tel Aviv, where he has founded two medical centres.\n\nPierre Perrenoud, a native of Western Switzerland, spent most of his life in Zurich and travelling all over the world for professional reasons (reinsurance) and to satisfy his cultural interests. Since his retirement, he has been involved with many cultural projects in Crans-Montana, with a bias for classical music. He is the co-founder of iClassical Academy Ltd and chairman of iClassical Foundation.\n\nMany musicians joined iClassical Academy, including: Peter Frankl, Ricardo Castro, Virginie Robilliard, Rudolf Koelman, Gülsin Onay, Hagai Shaham, Dmitry Yablonsky, Amit Peled, Klaidi Sahatci, Sergey Ostrovsky, Vera Tsu, Evangelina Benedetti, Uri Vardi,Gyorgy Pauk, Danies Zhdanov, Jana Gandelman, Maria Tchaikovskaya, Maurizio Baglini, Zvi Plesser, Peter Szabo, Sander Sittig, Oxana Yablonskaya, Silvia Chiesa e Marco Pierobon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36184705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36184705", "title": "Indonesian Medical Olympiad", "text": "Indonesian Medical Olympiad\n\nIndonesian Medical Olympiad (IMO) is an Indonesian academic competition on medical knowledge that is presented by the Indonesian Medical Students' Executive Board Association, a member of the International Federation of Medical Students' Associations. IMO is the biggest academic competition for medical students of Indonesia, and has been named National Medical Challenge (2010) and National Medical Olympiad (2011).\n\nThe champion of this competition is awarded trophies from the Minister of Education and Culture, the Minister of Health, and the Indonesian Association of Medical Institutions, along with millions of rupiah.\n\nSince 2010, IMO has taken place in Jogjakarta (2010), hosted by Muhammadiyah University of Yogyakarta; Surabaya (2011), hosted by Airlangga University, Malang (2012), hosted by Brawijaya University and Surabaya (2013), hosted by Airlangga University. In 2014, Indonesia Medical Olympiad was held in Padang, hosted by Universitas Andalas. In 2015. IMO was hosted by Hasanuddin University in Makassar. In 2016, IMO was held in Universitas Pelita Harapan in Jakarta. The latest IMO 2017 was hosted by Universitas Sumatera Utara in Medan\n\nParticipants of IMO are delegations from medical institutions in Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "48985434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48985434", "title": "International University of Goražde", "text": "International University of Goražde\n\nThe International University of Goražde (IUG) is a private university located in the city of Goražde, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The university was established by Edina Brutus and Dr. Emir Duranović. IUG is open to students from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and all over the Levant and Middle East. and the language of instruction and communication is English. It offers education according to Bologna system ( I. cycle, II. cycle and III. cycle diplomas).\n\nIUG has 1410 students on 232 Faculties and 15 Departments performing academic activities in disciplines of Science, Engineering, and Social Sciences. First generation of students was enrolled in IUG in the 2015/2016 academic year.\n\nThe future plans of the IUG are to open the university doors for Turkish, Indian citizens. Students from Bosnia are favoured.\n\nThe university has only an Executive Board. The Rector, Prof. Dr. Mehmed Avdagić, was born in Potočari (Srebrenica). He was a student on the Faculty of Political Sciences-FPN in University of Sarajevo, where he completed his master and doctoral degrees. He is married and has 6 children. Other main faculty at the IUG are: Dean Dr. Muhamed Suljić (Faculty of Medical Sciences-FZN), Prof. Dr. Snežana Komatina (Faculty of Technical Sciences-FTN), Dr. Elvira Čekić (Faculty of Educational Sciences-FEN) and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Stojanović (Faculty of Social Sciences-FDN).\n\nThe International University of Goražde comprises:\n\nIUG students have been involved in various activities.\n\nThe IUG has in plan to build a modern urban campus in city of Goražde in near future.\n"}
{"id": "3129303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3129303", "title": "Johnny Lechner", "text": "Johnny Lechner\n\nJohn A \"Johnny\" Lechner is an American film and television actor best known for his role as Alan Reese on the television series Girls of Sunset Place (Showtime - 2012), as well as his role as Greg \"Fossil\" Karanowski in the movie Fraternity House (2008). Lechner was born in Fort Hood, Texas, but grew up in Pewaukee, Wisconsin. He is also known as being a perpetual student at the University of Wisconsin–Whitewater, having studied there since 1994.\n\nLechner's academic claim to fame (or infamy) is that he has been attending college since graduating from Waukesha North High School in 1994. Lechner did not graduate from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater in 2006, 2007, 2008, or 2009, despite having enough credits to graduate with nine majors and five minors.\n\nAs of October 10, 2011, Lechner is not listed in the UW-Whitewater student directory and it is unclear whether his student status continues. His directory entry was last verified on April 16, 2010.\n\nAt Whitewater he has won a campus \"Big Man on Campus\" beauty pageant, studied abroad in, \"Paris, London, Amsterdam, Rome, Florence, Venice and Switzerland,\" and South Africa, appeared on \"Late Show with David Letterman\" and \"Good Morning America\", been named one of \"People\"'s \"Hot Bachelors\", run for student body president, and appeared in two films, including \"Minor League: A Football Story\" and a starring role in \"Fraternity House\".\n\nLechner has been dubbed the \"real-life Van Wilder.\" The Wisconsin Board of Regents instituted a \"Johnny Lechner rule\" on long-term students, so Lechner pays double the standard in-state tuition.\n\n"}
{"id": "6994929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6994929", "title": "Key Words Reading Scheme", "text": "Key Words Reading Scheme\n\nThe Key Words Reading Scheme is a series of 36 English language early readers children's books, published by the British publishing company, Ladybird Books. The series are also often referred to as Peter and Jane, the names of the main characters.\n\nThe first book in the series, Ladybird series 641, was published in 1964, and the series was completed by the first publication of the 36th book in 1967. Over 80 million books in the series have been sold worldwide, and the books remain in print in 2012.\n\nThe books were designed as materials for teaching a small child to learn to read, using a system of key phrases and words devised by teacher William Murray. Murray was an educational adviser at a borstal and later headmaster of a \"school for the educationally subnormal\" in Cheltenham. From research undertaken in the 1950s by Murray with Professor Joe McNally, an educational psychologist at the University of Manchester, Murray realised that only 12 words account for a quarter of the vocabulary used in normal speaking, reading and writing in the English language, 100 words for half, and 300 words for three-quarters.\n\nStarting with book 1a, a budding reader of primary school age, from 3 to 5 years old, is introduced to brother and sister Peter and Jane, their dog Pat, their Mummy and Daddy, and their home, toys, playground, the beach, shops, buses and trains, and so on. The first book uses the 12 key words which are used repeatedly (\"Here is Peter\", \"Peter is here\", \"Here is Jane\", \"Jane is here\", \"I like Peter\", \"I like Jane\"). Additional words are introduced gradually, page by page, to expand the reader's reading vocabulary, with the new words on each page set out in a footnote. The reader can consolidate their learning with books 1b, or practise writing in book 1c, all with the same vocabulary; or progress to book 2a (and 2b and 2c), and so on, with 12 sets of three books in all.\n\nTwo more characters, Simon and John, were introduced further into the series, as the books developed in length and detail to become targeted at growing children who had developed further reading skills. These two characters are cousins of Peter and Jane.\n\nAll of the books are small, thin hardback volumes with 56 pages, measuring 112×170 mm. Each book has text on a left page and an illustration on the facing right page, drawn by artists Harry Wingfield, Martin Aitchison, Frank Hampson, Robert Ayton and John Berry. The illustrations vary in style from book to book, depending on artist, but Peter and Jane are recognisable throughout. The clear sans serif typeface used in the books starts at a large size and gradually becomes smaller as the reader progresses through the series. The sentence structure also becomes gradually more complex.\n\nThe books were first published in 1964, with a firmly 1950s feel to the illustrations provided by the furniture and clothing depicted, and the social context reflecting the life of a white, middle-class family. The books were revised and updated in 1970, and again in the late 1970s, to reflect changes in fashions and in social attitudes. For example, golliwogs were airbrushed out; Daddy takes a more active domestic role; and Jane moved out of skirts and dresses into jeans, and abandoned her dolly for rollerskates. However, it remains notable how often Peter goes out to help Daddy, or actively plays with a ball, for example, while Jane stays at home to help Mummy, passively watches Peter, or plays with her doll.\n\n\nFew changes have been made to the books since the 1970s, and they may be considered a source of social history. The books make use of the whole word or \"look and say\" technique which is generally considered outmoded as a method of reading education when not used in conjunction with phonics. Nevertheless, the books remain on sale in 2013, priced relatively cheaply at around £2.99 per book.\n\nIn some Asian countries, particularly those which are also part of the British Commonwealth, the books are still widely used as a teaching aid in nurseries, preschools and kindergartens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18075034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18075034", "title": "Laurence Stern fellowship", "text": "Laurence Stern fellowship\n\nThe Laurence Stern fellowship is an annual summer internship program for British journalists at the \"Washington Post\". The internship was established in honour of \"Post\" journalist, Laurence Stern. A fund for the program is managed by the National Press Foundation. Awardees are selected by the \"Post\". Many program alumni have gone on to national prominence in British journalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19781352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19781352", "title": "Leckie &amp; Leckie", "text": "Leckie &amp; Leckie\n\nLeckie and Leckie is an educational publishing firm based in Scotland. The main focus of the company is educational books for students taking Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) courses. They offer books on most Standard Grade, Intermediate 1, Intermediate 2, Higher and Advanced Higher courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2979782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979782", "title": "Lesson plan", "text": "Lesson plan\n\nA lesson plan is a teacher's detailed description of the course of instruction or \"learning trajectory\" for a lesson. A daily lesson plan is developed by a teacher to guide class learning. Details will vary depending on the preference of the teacher, subject being covered, and the needs of the students. There may be requirements mandated by the school system regarding the plan. A lesson plan is the teacher's guide for running a particular lesson, and it includes the goal (what the students are supposed to learn), how the goal will be reached (the method, procedure) and a way of measuring how well the goal was reached (test, worksheet, homework etc.).\n\nWhile there are many formats for a lesson plan, most lesson plans contain some or all of these elements, typically in this order:\n\nAccording to Gini Cunningham, there are eight lesson plan phases that are designed to provide \"many opportunities for teachers to recognize and correct students' misconceptions while extending understanding for future lessons.\" These phases are: Introduction, Foundation, Brain Activation, Body of New Information, Clarification, Practice and Review, Independent Practice, and Closure.\n\n\nA well-developed lesson plan reflects the interests and needs of students. It incorporates best practices for the educational field. The lesson plan correlates with the teacher's philosophy of education, which is what the teacher feels is the purpose of educating the students.\n\nSecondary English program lesson plans, for example, usually center around four topics. They are literary theme, elements of language and composition, literary history, and literary genre. A broad, thematic lesson plan is preferable, because it allows a teacher to create various research, writing, speaking, and reading assignments. It helps an instructor teach different literature genres and incorporate videotapes, films, and television programs. Also, it facilitates teaching literature and English together. Similarly, history lesson plans focus on content (historical accuracy and background information), analytic thinking, scaffolding, and the practicality of lesson structure and meeting of educational goals. School requirements and a teacher's personal tastes, in that order, determine the exact requirements for a lesson plan.\n\n\"Unit plans\" follow much the same format as a lesson plan, but cover an entire unit of work, which may span several days or weeks. Modern constructivist teaching styles may not require individual lesson plans. The unit plan may include specific objectives and timelines, but lesson plans can be more fluid as they adapt to student needs and learning styles. \nUnit Planning is the proper selection of learning activities which presents a complete picture. Unit planning is a systematic arrangement of subject matter. Samford \"A unit plan is one which involves a series of learning experiences that are linked to achieve the aims composed by methodology and contents\". Dictionary of Education:\"A unit is an organization of various activities, experiences and types of learning around a central problem or purpose developed cooperatively by a group of pupils under a teacher leadership involving planning, execution of plans and evaluation of results\".\n\nCriteria of a Unit Plan\n\n1. Needs, capabilities, interest of the learner should be considered.\n2. Prepared on the sound psychological knowledge of the learner.\n3. Provide a new learning experience; systematic but flexible.\n4. Sustain the attention of the learner till the end.\n5. Related to social and Physical environment of the learner.\n6. Development of learner's personality.\n\nIt is important to note that lesson planning is a thinking process, not the filling in of a lesson plan template. Lesson plan is envisaged as a blue print, guide map for action, a comprehensive chart of classroom teaching-learning activities, an elastic but systematic approach for the teaching of concepts, skills and attitudes.\n\nThe first thing for setting a lesson plan is to create an objective, that is, a statement of purpose for the whole lesson. An objective statement itself should answer what students will be able to do by the end of the lesson. The objective drives the whole lesson plan, it is the reason the lesson plan exists. The teacher should ensure that lesson plan goals are compatible with the developmental level of the students. The teacher ensures as well that their student achievement expectations are reasonable.\n\nTh following guidelines were set by Canadian Council on Learning to enhance the effectiveness of teaching process:\n\n\n\n\n\nAssignments are either in-class or take-home tasks to be completed for the next class period. These tasks are important because they help ensure that the instruction provides the students with a goal and the power to get there as well as the interest to be engaged in rigorous academic contexts, as they acquire content and skills necessary to be able to participate in academic coursework. \n\nExperts cite that, in order to be effective and achieve objectives, the development of these assignment tasks must take into consideration the perceptions of the students because they are different from those of the teacher's. This challenge can be addressed by providing examples instead of abstract concepts or instructions. Another strategy involves the development of tasks that are specifically related to the learners' needs, interests, and age ranges. There are also experts who cite the importance of teaching learners about assignment planning. This is said to facilitate the students' engagement and interest in their assignment. Some strategies include brainstorming about the assignment process and the creation of a learning environment wherein students feel engaged and willing to reflect on their prior learning and to discuss specific or new topics.\n\nThere are several assignment types so the instructor must decide whether class assignments are whole-class, small groups, workshops, independent work, peer learning, or contractual:\n\n\nThese assignment categories (e.g. peer learning, independent, small groups) can also be used to guide the instructor’s choice of assessment measures that can provide information about student and class comprehension of the material. As discussed by Biggs (1999), there are additional questions an instructor can consider when choosing which type of assignment would provide the most benefit to students. These include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46228439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46228439", "title": "Lisa Corinne Davis", "text": "Lisa Corinne Davis\n\nLisa Corinne Davis is an American visual artist who is perhaps best-known as a painter. Davis' intricate map-like paintings occupy a point somewhere between cartooning and cartography, abstraction and figuration. Davis currently lives and works in Brooklyn and Hudson, New York and is represented by Gerald Peters Gallery, New York, NY, Galerie Gris, Hudson, NY and The Mayor Gallery, London.\n\nFrom 1976-78 Davis attended Cornell University. In 1980, she attained a Bachelor in Fine Arts from the Pratt Institute in New York City. In 1993 she attained a Masters in Fine Arts from Hunter College.\n\nAs an artist, Davis' work is an exploration of racial, social, and psychological identity, and through the development of her painting lexicon she expresses her personal experience as an African-American woman in the 21st Century, and, by extension, that of an individual in modern society. The images are oddly familiar but essentially ephemeral, visually resonant but also deliberately enigmatic.\n\nShe is currently a Professor of Painting and Combined Media at Hunter College. Lisa also has taught at Parsons School of Design, Cooper Union School of Art, and Yale University.\n\n\nDavis has received numerous awards, including the 2001 Artist Biennial award from the Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation, a National Endowment for the Arts' Visual Artist Fellowship and two New York Foundation for the Arts Fellowships.\n\n"}
{"id": "46367882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46367882", "title": "Made with Code", "text": "Made with Code\n\nMade with Code is an initiative launched by Google on 19 July 2014. Google aimed to empower young women in middle and high schools with computer programming skills. Made with Code was created after Google’s own research found out that encouragement and exposure are the critical factors that would influence young females to pursue Computer Science. It was reported that Google is funding $50 million to Made with Code, on top of the initial $40 million invested since 2010 in organizations like Code.org, Black Girls Code, and Girls Who Code. The Made with Code initiative involves both online activities as well as real life events, collaborating with notable firms like Shapeways and App Inventor.\n\nMade with Code revolves primarily around providing online activities for young girls to learn coding on its website. Many of Made with Code’s projects use Blockly programming, a visual editor that writes programs by assembling individual blocks. Step by step instructions are provided to guide users. Along the way, works may either be discarded or saved and downloaded.\n\nDance Visualiser mixes dance with code by modelling a visualiser that mirrors a dancer’s motions. Through the application of Blockly programming, users track the different parts such as the head, chest, hip and four limbs of the dancer’s body. After inputting the necessary details, a customized visualization is generated accordingly.\n\nIn Music Mixer, users manipulate the number of notes and set the speed of each instrument to produce a colorful rotating visual music mixer. The range of instruments that are available include Acapella, Country, Electronic, HipHop, Pop and Rock.\n\nBeats connects Blockly programming language and virtual instruments together to produce a string of beats. Users set the speed from a minimum of 30 to a maximum of 300 beats. The range of virtual instruments available include hi-hat, clave, cowbell, cymbal, tom, kick, snare and clap.\n\nProject Avata r allows users to customize their own avatar. Through Blockly programming language, users input different shapes on a virtual 2D work space, then arrange the shapes into a 3D avatar.\n\nAccessorizer allow to accessorize (put accessories on) a selfie with Blockly programming language. The first step is selecting an image, either by snapping a picture or selecting the available characters including Dorothy, Rose, Smoosh, Raul and Blanche. The next step is to position the accessories on top of the character or image. Accessories include the eyes, mouths, shirts, hats and wigs.\n\nGIF lets users make a custom animation with a background and a series of frame. With the Blockly programming language, four images can be constructed which will then cycle so as to form an animation. The first step is to select the background, which includes characters such as Licky Ricky, Mayday Mary, Puss in Moon Boots, Purple Mess, Flappy the Uni-Horn, Tonsil Tammy, Bucky, Long Lidia, Permy and Mr. Hula Hips. The next step is to select frame(s), which includes various shapes and colors.\n\nKaleidoscope lets users manipulate the size, speed, and images of a kaleidoscope animation. After selecting an animation, either star, cross or flower, users pick an image and select a rotation speed. Next, select the image size by entering a percentage value.\n\nYeti project allows users to create an animated Yeti with Blockly programming language. The first step is to drag and insert the YETI block onto the work space, followed by the character design block. Select the fur and skin color of your Yeti, as well as the hand and feet sizes. Next, select the animation command from the various range of actions provided.\n\nMade with Code collaborated with Shapeways to allow girls to create their own customised bracelet. After designing the bracelet with Blockly, Shapeways prints the bracelets using nylon plastic on their 3D EOS printers.\n\nMade with Code website features videos of mentors, who are females in different industries who have used computer coding in their career, and makers, who are young females who have made a difference in society using their coding skills. Some of the mentors and makers were also invited to hold talks such as during Made with Code's kick off event in New York City. Over 100 teenage girls from local organizations and public schools worked on coding projects and witnessed first-hand how women use code in their dream jobs.\n\n\n\nMade with Code website has a resource directory for parents and girls to enter their ZIP code and find more information about new local events.\n\nMade with Code partnered with National Park Foundation to organised a campaign in 2014 to light up 56 official White House Christmas trees in President’s Park. More than 300,000 people, mostly young girls, participated and programmed the designs of the lights on the trees through selecting different shapes, sizes, and colors of the lights, and animate different patterns using introductory programming language.\n\nMade with Code has partnered with Code School in June 2014 and provided three months free accounts in Code School for women and minorities already in the technology industry to expand their skills. This initiative widened Made with Code's target group to also include those who have already started a career in the tech industry, in addition to the initial target group of young girls without prior coding experiences.\n\nGoogle raise gender diversity in Code School by giving $50 million over three years to provide for related programs. They concurrently work with DonorsChoose.org and Codecademy or Khan Academy for the trial of a project. They also collaborated with the Science and Entertainment Exchange.\n"}
{"id": "24444919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24444919", "title": "Maimonides' rule", "text": "Maimonides' rule\n\nMaimonides' rule is named after the 12th-century rabbinic scholar Maimonides, who identified a correlation between class size and students' achievements. Today this rule is widely used in educational research to evaluate the effect of class size on students' test scores. Maimonides' rule states that a class size may rise to an upper limit of 40 students. Once this quota is reached the class is cut in half, so instead of one class with forty-one students there are now two classes: one with twenty students and one with twenty-one students.\n\nJoshua Angrist and Victor Lavy (1999) have used \"the nonlinear relationship between the local number of students and the class size predicted by Maimonides' rule to estimate the impact of class size on student performance, and evaluate the effect of being just below the number of students for whom an additional teacher would be brought up, and of being just above this number.\"\n\nTheir results have shown highly irregular patterns in class size that are precisely mirrored in student achievement. They have found that a reduction in predicted class size of ten students is associated with a 0.25 standard deviation increase in fifth-graders' test scores.\n"}
{"id": "14166774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14166774", "title": "Master of Engineering Management", "text": "Master of Engineering Management\n\nMaster of Science in Engineering Management or Master of Engineering Management (MSEM or MEM) is a professional master's degree that bridges the gap between the field of engineering or technology and the field of business management. Engineering management is a multidisciplinary field that involves the application of business methods and management expertise to technology companies and products or engineering processes.\n\nAlso known as \"the Engineer's MBA\", the degree is generally pursued by engineers and scientists interested in management and business. \n\nThe MSEM or MEM degree includes coursework in topics such as new product development, experience design and leadership.\n\nIt can be earned with a prerequisite in engineering or as a post-graduate program to a Bachelor of Science degree.\n\nThough there has not been an extensive amount of collaboration among different MEM programs, some of the United States's top schools have established the Master of Engineering Management Programs Consortium (MEMPC) to raise awareness about the new emerging program of study. Typically programs are taught through a case based method, are focused on team-learning, and incorporate interdisciplinary projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "7717612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7717612", "title": "Math wars", "text": "Math wars\n\nMath wars is the debate over modern mathematics education, textbooks and curricula in the United States that was triggered by the publication in 1989 of the \"Curriculum and Evaluation Standards for School Mathematics\" by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) and subsequent development and widespread adoption of a new generation of mathematics curricula inspired by these standards.\n\nWhile the discussion about math skills has persisted for many decades, the term \"math wars\" was coined by commentators such as John A. Van de Walle and David Klein. The debate is over traditional mathematics and reform mathematics philosophy and curricula, which differ significantly in approach and content.\n\nThe largest supporter of reform in the US has been the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.\n\nOne aspect of the debate is over how explicitly children must be taught skills based on formulas or algorithms (fixed, step-by-step procedures for solving math problems) versus a more inquiry-based approach in which students are exposed to real-world problems that help them develop fluency in number sense, reasoning, and problem-solving skills. In this latter approach, conceptual understanding is a primary goal and algorithmic fluency is expected to follow secondarily. Some parents and other stakeholders blame educators saying that failures occur not because the method is at fault, but because these educational methods require a great deal of expertise and have not always been implemented well in actual classrooms.\n\nA backlash, which advocates call \"poorly understood reform efforts\" and critics call \"a complete abandonment of instruction in basic mathematics,\" resulted in \"math wars\" between reform and traditional methods of mathematics education.\n\nThose who disagree with the inquiry-based philosophy maintain that students must first\ndevelop computational skills before they can understand concepts of mathematics. These\nskills should be memorized and practiced, using time-tested traditional methods until they become automatic. Time is better spent practicing skills rather than in investigations inventing alternatives, or justifying more than one correct answer or method. In this view, estimating answers is insufficient and, in fact, is considered to be dependent on strong foundational skills. Learning abstract concepts of mathematics is perceived to depend on a solid base of knowledge of the tools of the subject.\n\nSupporters of traditional mathematics teaching oppose excessive dependence on innovations such as calculators or new technology, such as the Logo language. Student innovation is acceptable, even welcome, as long as it is mathematically valid. Calculator use can be appropriate after number sense has developed and basic skills have been mastered. Constructivist methods which are unfamiliar to many adults, and books which lack explanations of methods or solved examples make it difficult to help with homework. Compared to worksheets which can be completed in minutes, constructivist activities can be more time consuming. (Reform educators respond that more time is lost in reteaching poorly understood algorithms.) Emphasis on reading and writing also increases the language load for immigrant students and parents who may be unfamiliar with English.\n\nCritics of reform point out that traditional methods are still universally and exclusively used in industry and academia. Reform educators respond that such methods are still the ultimate goal of reform mathematics, and that students need to learn flexible thinking in order to face problems they may not know a method for. Critics maintain that it is unreasonable to expect students to \"discover\" the standard methods through investigation, and that flexible thinking can only be developed after mastering foundational skills. Commentators have argued that there is philosophical support for the notion that \"algorithmic fluency\" requires the very types of cognitive activity whose promotion reform advocates often claim is their approaches' unique virtue. However, such arguments assume that reformers do not want to teach the standard algorithms, which is a common misunderstanding of the reform position.\n\nSome curricula incorporate research by Constance Kamii and others that concluded that direct teaching of traditional algorithms is counterproductive to conceptual understanding of math. Critics have protested some of the consequences of this research. Traditional memorization methods are replaced with constructivist activities. Students who demonstrate proficiency in a standard method are asked to invent another method of arriving at the answer. Some parents have accused reform math advocates of deliberately slowing down students with greater ability in order to \"paper-over\" the inequalities of the American school system. Some teachers supplement such textbooks in order to teach standard methods more quickly. Some curricula do not teach long division. Critics believe the NCTM revised its standards to explicitly call for continuing instruction of standard methods, largely because of the negative response to some of these curricula (see below). College professors and employers have sometimes claimed that students that have been taught using reform curricula do not possess basic mathematical skills. One study found that, although first-grade students in 1999 with an average or above-average aptitude for math did equally well with either teacher-directed or student-centered instruction, first-grade students with mathematical difficulties did better with teacher-directed instruction.\n\nExamples of reform curricula introduced in response to the 1989 NCTM standards and the reasons for initial criticism:\n\nCritics of reform textbooks say that they present concepts in a haphazard way. Critics of the reform textbooks and curricula support traditional textbooks such as Singapore math, which emphasizes direct instruction of basic mathematical concepts, and Saxon math, which emphasizes frequent cumulative review.\n\nReform educators have responded by pointing out that research tends to show that students achieve greater conceptual understanding from standards-based curricula than traditional curricula and that these gains do not come at the expense of basic skills. In fact students tend to achieve the same procedural skill level in both types of curricula as measured by traditional standardized tests. More research is needed, but the current state of research seems to show that reform textbooks work as well as or better than traditional textbooks in helping students achieve computational competence while promoting greater conceptual understanding than traditional approaches.\n\nIn 2000 the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) released the Principles and Standards for School Mathematics (PSSM), which was seen as more balanced than the original 1989 Standards. This led to some calming, but not an end to the dispute. Two recent reports have led to considerably more cooling of the Math Wars. In 2006, NCTM released its \"Curriculum Focal Points\", which was seen by many as a compromise position. In 2008, the National Mathematics Advisory Panel, created by George Bush, called for a halt to all extreme positions.\n\nIn 2006, the NCTM released \"Curriculum Focal Points\", a report on the topics considered central for mathematics in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade. Its inclusion of standard algorithms led editorials in newspapers like the Chicago Sun Times to state that the \"NCTM council has admitted, more or less, that it goofed,\" and that the new report cited \"inconsistency in the grade placement of mathematics topics as well as in how they are defined and what students are expected to learn.\" NCTM responded by insisting that it considers \"Focal Points\" a step in the implementation of the Standards, not a reversal of its position on teaching students to learn foundational topics with conceptual understanding. Francis Fennell, president of the NCTM, stated that there had been no change of direction or policy in the new report and said that he resented talk of “math wars”. The Focal Points were one of the documents consulted to create the new national Common Core Standards, which are being adopted by most of the United States.\n\nOn April 18, 2006, President Bush created the National Mathematics Advisory Panel, which was modeled after the influential National Reading Panel. The National Math Panel examined and summarized the scientific evidence related to the teaching and learning of mathematics, concluding in their 2008 report, \"All-encompassing recommendations that instruction should be entirely 'student centered' or 'teacher directed' are not supported by research. If such recommendations exist, they should be rescinded. If they are being considered, they should be avoided. High-quality research does not support the exclusive use of either approach.\" The Panel effectively called for an end to the Math Wars, concluding that research showed \"conceptual understanding, computational and procedural fluency, and problem solving skills are equally important and mutually reinforce each other. Debates regarding the relative importance of each of these components of mathematics are misguided.\"\n\nThe Panel's final report met with significant criticism within the mathematics education community for, among other issues, the selection criteria used to determine \"high-quality\" research, their comparison of extreme forms of teaching, and the amount of focus placed on algebra.\n\n"}
{"id": "39772605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39772605", "title": "Nadine Wulffius", "text": "Nadine Wulffius\n\nMadame Nadine Wulffius (1899–1992) was a ballet dancer and choreographer and the founder of her own Ballet School in Maddington, Western Australia.\n\nWulffius (née Nadezhda Krivko) was born in Russian ruled Latvia in September 1899 during the reign of the last Romanov Czar Nicholas II. She was the daughter of Fyodor Krivko and Countess Kladiya Alekseyeva-Yaroslavskeya. She recalls in a 1986 Interview with Margita Chudziak the events of her early life. \n\nWulffius as a child saw \"Sleeping Beauty\" done in the German style and this made a deep impression on her and she began to desire to be a dancer. Her parents and aristocratic grandmother were opposed to her becoming a Ballet dancer as it was not considered respectable for a girl of noble origins. However she persisted and due to the fact that on her father's side she had a peasant grandfather she was given permission. Wulffius was firstly instructed by Marietta Balbo a famous former dancer with the Italian Ballet who taught private students in her studio in Latvia. She eventually convinced her family to allow her to enrol in the Maryinski Theatre (Imperial Ballet School) in St Petersburg when she was about 12 or 13. Unlike the other students she was able to travel back and forth from her home in Latvia to St Petersburg for extended periods of time.\n\nWulffius was taught by Maria Anderson in the lower classes and by Olga Preobrajenska in the higher classes. She recalls \n\nWulffius remained at the Imperial Ballet School and the Petersburg University until 1922, when she fled Communist Russia for newly independent Latvia.\n\nIn Riga she joined the Latvian Theatre where she danced under the name of Mirceva. She also taught at the Riga University. Her dancing name was based on her surname from her first marriage to Mario Marceva–Marcenos a Greek mountain engineer and a son of a Greek Ambassador. This first husband escaped Russia at the time of the Revolution via Vladivostok and sailed around Asia but died off the coast of Constantinople on the way to his parents home in Athens. Her second husband was a German Opera singer called Conrad Henzel.\n\nWulffius' parents, who are believed to have lived at Ruskulova Manor in the Salnevas area of Latgale, had left Latvia after its independence and returned to Russian territory in Vitebsk and lived hidden among the peasants until the rise of Stalin when they were killed by the Communists. Two of her brothers (Constantine and Nicolai) who had been Czarist officers were sent into battle in the front lines to be killed in a war against Finland. Wulffius also had another brother (Vladimir) and sister (Alexandra) who died when they were children.\n\nWulffius was friends with the writer Lev Urvancov (Leo Urvantzov)who loosely based his character Vera Mirceva on her and an incident in her life. She would visit Urvancov in Paris until his death in 1929. She strongly disagreed with him about his belief that Anna Anderson was the Grand Duchess Anastasia. Wulffius told her family that she had been a liberal socialist in her younger days as a student whose hope was for Russia to become a democratic constitutional monarchy. The murder of the Tsar and Royal Family which she claimed to have learnt about while travelling on a train shocked her and after this she became anti-communist. In the 1930s she spied on ex-pat communists on behalf of the Latvian government using the name of Vera Mirceva and posing as a Czech socialist. She spied on the communists in Spain during the civil war during her vacations.\n\nHer third husband was a Latvian-German Baron Alf-Paul Oscar Wulffius (Vulffius/ Vulfius) of Salnavas, Latvia. He was killed by the Communists during the Second World War (1941). At this time Wulffius was living in Daugavpils and according to her son Paul his father was living with a pianist who was his father's mistress. It seemed to be an amicable arrangement with Wulffius staying with them both when she was in Riga. This may be the Galina Vulfius (b.1912) mentioned as being taken by the communists with Alf-Paul in 1941.\n\nWulffius also at this time (1941) had a Ballet School in Daugavpils, Latvia. Bernard Levinson mentions her under the name of Madam Mirceva in his article titled \"August in Latvia (For Maja Abramowitch)\" at the time of the German invasion of Latvia. He uses quotes from the book of a Holocaust survivor Maja Abramovitch titled \"To Forgive but not to Forget\" (2002). Wulffius under the name of N.Mircevas is also mentioned in Daugavpils in 1934, 1936 and 1937 in regards to the Ballet and she (as N. Mirceva) and her Ballet School performances is mentioned again in the same Journal in 1938 and 1939.\n\nWulffius fled to Germany with her son where she lived until she came to Australia in 1953. Her son Herman Paul Vulfiuss (1924–1998) had come to Australia in 1949 and married a 4th generation Western Australian Beth Lorraine Bartram (1931–2005) from Dumbleyung.\n\nIn Western Australia in late 1953 Wulffius met Madame Kira Bousloff of the Western Australian Ballet and they became close friends. Madame Kira speaks of her lovingly in an interview with Michelle Potter in 1990. \n\nWulffius founded her own Ballet School in Maddington Western Australia. She ran this school for seven years before handing it over to her close friend Madame Gundi Ferris. She also taught Russian at the University of Western Australia. She was an expert on the History of Dance. She continued until she was 80 to teach Perth's Ballet students the History of Dance and her own unique Ballet head, hand and arm movements (which she said were a cross between the Russian and Italian schools). Joan Woods reports that the hand movements were based on those of Ella Ilbak a famous Estonia solo-dancer and writer who studied in St Petersburg at the same time as Wulffius. Joan Woods writing on the history of the West Australian Ballet says that Wulffius was one of Kira Bousloff's first helpers and was Ballet mistress of the company for 12 months. Joan Woods also writes:\n\nAround 1979 she moved to live with her granddaughter Mrs Tamara Bartram (née Vulfiuss) at \"Hillside\" farm in Dumbleyung. She taught German to the students at the local school. Wulffius was fluent in six languages. She died on 6 February 1992 at Dumbleyung and is buried at the Nippering Cemetery near Dumbleyung.\n"}
{"id": "1179596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179596", "title": "Nelson Goodman", "text": "Nelson Goodman\n\nHenry Nelson Goodman (7 August 1906 – 25 November 1998) was an American philosopher, known for his work on counterfactuals, mereology, the problem of induction, irrealism, and aesthetics.\n\nGoodman was born in Somerville, Massachusetts, the son of Sarah Elizabeth (née Woodbury) and Henry Lewis Goodman. He was of Jewish origins. He graduated from Harvard University, A.B., magna cum laude (1928). During the 1930s, he ran an art gallery in Boston, Massachusetts, while studying for a Harvard Ph.D. in philosophy, which he completed in 1941. His experience as an art dealer helps explain his later turn towards aesthetics, where he became better known than in logic and analytic philosophy. During World War II, he served as a psychologist in the US Army.\n\nHe taught at the University of Pennsylvania, 1946–1964, where his students included Noam Chomsky, Sydney Morgenbesser, Stephen Stich, and Hilary Putnam. He was a research fellow at the Harvard Center for Cognitive Studies from 1962 to 1963 and was a professor at several universities from 1964 to 1967, before being appointed Professor of Philosophy at Harvard in 1968.\n\nIn 1967, at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, he was the founding director of Harvard Project Zero, a basic research project in artistic cognition and artistic education. He remained the director for four years and served as an informal adviser for many years thereafter.\n\nGoodman died in Needham, Massachusetts.\n\nIn his book \"Fact, Fiction, and Forecast\", Goodman introduced the \"new riddle of induction\", so-called by analogy with Hume's classical problem of induction. He accepted Hume's observation that inductive reasoning (i.e. inferring from past experience about events in the future) was based solely on human habit and regularities to which our day-to-day existence has accustomed us. Goodman argued, however, that Hume overlooked the fact that some regularities establish habits (a given piece of copper conducting electricity increases the credibility of statements asserting that other pieces of copper conduct electricity) while some do not (the fact that a given man in a room is a third son does not increase the credibility of statements asserting that other men in this room are third sons). How then can we differentiate between regularities or hypotheses that construe law-like statements from those that are contingent or based upon accidental generality?\n\nHempel's confirmation theory argued that the solution is to differentiate between hypotheses, which apply to all things of a certain class, and evidence statements, which apply to only one thing. Goodman's famous counterargument was to introduce the predicate grue, which applies to all things examined before a certain time \"t\" just in case they are green, but also to other things just in case they are blue and not examined before time \"t\". If we examine emeralds before time \"t\" and find that emerald \"a\" is green, emerald \"b\" is green, and so forth, each will confirm the hypothesis that all emeralds are green. However, emeralds \"a, b, c,\"..etc. also confirm the hypothesis that all emeralds are grue. Thus, before time \"t\", the apparently law-like statements \"All emeralds are green\" and \"All emeralds are grue\" are equally well confirmed by observation, but obviously \"All emeralds are grue\" is not a law-like statement.\n\nGoodman's example showed that the difficulty in determining what constitutes law-like statements is far greater than previously thought, and that once again we find ourselves facing the initial dilemma that \"anything can confirm anything\".\n\nGoodman, along with Stanislaw Lesniewski, is the founder of the contemporary variant of nominalism, which argues that philosophy, logic, and mathematics should dispense with set theory. Goodman's nominalism was driven purely by ontological considerations. After a long and difficult 1947 paper coauthored with W. V. O. Quine, Goodman ceased to trouble himself with finding a way to reconstruct mathematics while dispensing with set theory – discredited as sole foundations of mathematics as of 1913 (Russell and Whitehead, in \"Principia Mathematica\").\n\nThe program of David Hilbert to reconstruct it from logical axioms was proven futile in 1936 by Gödel. Because of this and other failures of seemingly fruitful lines of research, \nQuine soon came to believe that such a reconstruction was impossible, but Goodman's Penn colleague Richard Milton Martin argued otherwise, writing a number of papers suggesting ways forward.\n\nAccording to Thomas Tymoczko's \"afterword\" in \"New directions in the philosophy of mathematics\", Quine had \"urged that we abandon ad hoc devices distinguishing mathematics from science and just accept the resulting assimilation\", putting the \"key burden on the theories (networks of sentences) that we accept, not on the individual sentences whose significance can change dramatically depending on their theoretical context.\" In so doing, Tymoczko claimed, philosophy of mathematics and philosophy of science were merged into quasi-empiricism: the emphasis of mathematical practice as effectively part of the scientific method, an emphasis on method over result.\n\nThe Goodman–Leonard (1940) calculus of individuals is the starting point for the American variant of mereology. While the exposition in Goodman and Leonard invoked a bit of naive set theory, the variant of the calculus of individuals that grounds Goodman's 1951 \"The Structure of Appearance\", a revision and extension of his Ph.D. thesis, makes no mention of the notion of set (while his Ph.D. thesis still did). Simons (1987) and Casati and Varzi (1999) show that the calculus of individuals can be grounded in either a bit of set theory, or monadic predicates, schematically employed. Mereology is accordingly \"ontologically neutral\" and retains some of Quine's pragmatism (which Tymoczko in 1998 carefully qualified as American Pragmatism).\n\nClick here for information about translations of Goodman's books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4513984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513984", "title": "Otl Aicher", "text": "Otl Aicher\n\nOtto \"Otl\" Aicher (13 May 1922 – 1 September 1991) was a German graphic designer and typographer. He is best known for having designed pictograms for the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich that proved influential on the use of stick figures for public signage, as well as designing the typeface Rotis. Aicher also co-founded the Ulm School of Design.\n\nAicher was born in Ulm, in the south-western state of Baden-Württemberg, on 13 May 1922. Aicher was a classmate and friend of Werner Scholl, and through him met Werner's family, including his siblings Hans and Sophie Scholl, both of whom would be executed in 1943 for their membership in the White Rose resistance movement in Nazi Germany. Like the Scholls, Aicher was strongly opposed to the Nazi movement. He was arrested in 1937 for refusing to join the Hitler Youth, and consequently he was failed on his abitur (college entrance) examination in 1941. He was subsequently drafted into the German army to fight in World War II, though he tried to leave at various times. In 1945 he deserted the army, and went into hiding at the Scholls' house in Wutach.\n\nIn 1946, after the end of the war, Aicher began studying sculpture at the Academy of Fine Arts Munich. In 1947, he opened his own studio in Ulm.\n\nIn 1952 he married Inge Scholl, the older sister of Werner, Hans, and Sophie.\n\nIn 1953, along with Inge Scholl and Max Bill, he founded the Ulm School of Design (Hochschule für Gestaltung Ulm), which became one of Germany's leading educational centres for design from its founding until its closure in 1968. Faculty and students included such notable designers as Tomás Maldonado, Peter Seitz, and Anthony Froshaug.\n\nAicher was heavily involved in corporate branding and considered one of the pioneers of Corporate design. Among others he was influential to the corporate identity of the company Braun and he designed the logo for German airline Lufthansa in 1969. \n\nIn 1966 Aicher was asked by the organisers of the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich to become the Olympic Games' lead designer. He was asked to create a design for the Olympics that complemented the architecture of the newly built stadium in Munich designed by Günther Behnisch. Aicher consulted with Masaru Katsumie, who had designed the previous 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games.\n\nBasing his work in part on iconography for the '64 Games, Aicher created a set of pictograms meant to provide a visual interpretation of the sport they featured so that athletes and visitors to the Olympic village and stadium could find their way around. He created pictograms using a series of grid systems and a specific bright colour palette that he chose for these Games. These designs were directly influential on the DOT pictograms, developed in 1974 by the United States Department of Transportation, which applied the same principles to standard public signage such as those for toilets and telephones; the DOT pictograms have in turn been used around the world. The series of pictograms he created was not a simple task; the goal of each pictogram was to function as a clear sign of the activity it represented while simultaneously maintaining its universal comprehension. \n\nOtl Aicher also helped to design the logo of the Munich Olympics. He went through several stages with his design team before finally finding the successful emblem. One of their first ideas was to use an element of the city's coat of arms or Münchner Kindl within the design which showed a monk or child pointing into the distance while clasping a book in his hand. Other ideas were to use the surrounding areas of the city, referencing the sun, mountains and landscape within the design. Finally the \"Strahlenkranz\" was created, a garland which represented the sun but also the five Olympic rings merged in a spiral shape. Designer Coordt von Mannstein reworked Aicher's original design through a mathematical calculation to amalgamate the garland and spiral together to get the final design.\n\nThe colours chosen for the designs of the games were selected to reflect the tones of the Alps. The mountains in blue and white would make up the palette of colours which also included green, orange and silver. The colours were used to identify allocated themes such as media, technical services, celebrity hospitality and public functions and each had a different colour so visitors could differentiate the themes around the stadium and village. Uniforms were colour-coordinated to represent these themes, the Olympic staff could be identified as working for a particular department by the colour they were wearing.\n\nAicher used the typeface Univers for the Olympic designs. The design team produced 21 sports posters to advertise the sports at the games, using the official design colours and also including the logo and \"München 1972\". The design team used a technique called \"posterization\" for the graphics on the posters, separating the tonal qualities from the images in a manual process and using the official munich colours for these games. The first of these posters was a poster of the Olympic stadium which became the official poster for these games. The posters were displayed all around the city of Munich and around the Olympic sites. Posters were hung in twos alongside posters designed by famous artists chosen to represent this Olympics such as David Hockney, R. B. Kitaj, Tom Wesselmann and Allen Jones.\n\nHe also created the first official Olympic Mascot, a striped dachshund named Waldi.\n\nIn 1980 Otl Aicher became a consultant of the kitchen manufacturer bulthaup. He created the rotis font family in 1988, naming it after the domicile of Rotis in the city of Leutkirch im Allgäu, where Aicher lived and kept his studio which is still used today by bulthaup.\n\nHe also designed the logo for the University of Konstanz as well as Munich Airport, the latter consisting of the letter M in a simple sans-serif font.\n\nAicher died in Günzburg on 1 September 1991, after he was struck by a vehicle while mowing the grass at Rotis.\n\nHe was honoured by the Munich City Council on 6 May 2010, when a street, Otl-Aicher-Straße, in the City's Borough No. 12 (Schwabing-Freimann) was named after him. \n\nAicher wrote many books on design and other subjects, including:\n\nPublications on Otl Aicher and his work:\n\n"}
{"id": "2576882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2576882", "title": "Pearson Education", "text": "Pearson Education\n\nPearson Education is a British-owned education publishing and assessment service to schools and corporations, as well as directly to students. Pearson owns educational media brands including Addison–Wesley, Peachpit, Prentice Hall, eCollege, Longman, Scott Foresman, and others.\n\nPearson is part of Pearson plc, which formerly owned the \"Financial Times\". It was created in July 1998 when Pearson plc purchased the education division of Simon & Schuster from Viacom and merged it with its own education division, Addison-Wesley Longman, to form Pearson Education. Pearson Education was rebranded to Pearson in 2011 and split into an International and a North American division.\n\nAlthough Pearson generates approximately 60 percent of its sales in North America, it operates in more than 70 countries.\nPearson International is headquartered in London, and maintains offices across Europe, Asia and South America. Its online chat support is based in the Philippines.\n\nPearson North America is headquartered at 330 Hudson in New York City, New York. It previously was located in Upper Saddle River, New Jersey.\n\nPearson Italia SpA, also known as Pearson Paravia Bruno Mondadori, was created through the purchase of PBM Editori, which was in turn a merge of Paravia (based in Turin) and Bruno Mondadori (based in Milan).\n\nPearson has a number of publishing imprints:\n\nPearson has partnered with five other higher-education publishers to create CourseSmart, a company developed to sell college textbooks in eTextbook format on a common platform. In 2010, Pearson agreed to a 5-year, $32 million, contract with the New York State Department of Education to design tests for students in grades 4–8.\n\nGreyCampus partnered with Pearson for higher-education teaching-learning solutions under the Learningware brand.\n\nQue Publishing, a publishing imprint of Pearson based out of Seattle, partnered with AARP to develop and add to a series of technology books for seniors. The series, which includes \"My iPad For Seniors,\" and \"My Social Media for Seniors,\" are large-print and colourful.\n\nIn the spring of 2012, tests that Pearson designed for the NYSED were found to contain over 30 errors, which caused controversy. One of the most prominent featured a passage about a talking pineapple on the 8th Grade ELA test (revealed to be based on Daniel Pinkwater's \"The Story of the Rabbit and the Eggplant\", with the eggplant changed into a pineapple). After public outcry, the NYSED announced it would not count the questions in scoring. Other errors included a miscalculated question on the 8th Grade Mathematics test regarding astronomical units, a 4th grade math question with two correct answers, errors in the 6th grade ELA scoring guide, and over twenty errors on foreign language math tests. In May 2015, the \"Wall Street Journal\" online reported British comedian John Oliver reviewing problems with Pearson's standardised tests on his HBO series \"Last Week Tonight\".\n\nPearson's products include MyMathLab and Mastering Platform.\n\nPearson owns Cogmed, a brain fitness and working memory training program founded in 1999 by Swedish researcher Torkel Klingberg.\n\nIn 2016 Pearson acquired StatCrunch, a statistical analysis tool created by Webster West in 1997. Pearson had already been the primary distributor of StatCrunch for several years.\n\nInformIT, a subsidiary of Pearson Education, is an online book vendor and an electronic publisher of technology and education content.\n\nInformIT.com is one of the web sites of the Pearson Technology Group, and one of several sites in the \"InformIT Network\". This site features free articles, blogs, and podcasts on IT topics and products, as well as a bookstore carrying all titles from these imprints. Publishing imprints represented on InformIT.com include Addison-Wesley Professional, Cisco Press, IBM Press, Prentice Hall Professional Technical Reference, Que Publishing, and Sams Publishing.\n\nThe other sites in the InformIT Network include:\n\nIn 2001, the Pearson Technology Group and O'Reilly Media LLC formed a joint partnership called Safari Books Online, to offer a web-based electronic library of technical and business books from InformIT's imprint partners and O'Reilly Media. The InformIT Network offers access to this service via its web sites. Pearson sold its interest in Safari Books Online to O'Reilly in 2014.\n\nRealidades is a standards-based high school curriculum that balances communications and grammar. With books for both middle school and high school students, Realidades features insight on the Spanish language, culture and technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22702090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22702090", "title": "Pierre Vladimiroff", "text": "Pierre Vladimiroff\n\nPierre Vladimiroff, or Pyotr Nikolayevich Vladimirov (; born February 13, 1893 in Gatchina, Saint Petersburg Governorate, Russian Empire – died November 25, 1970 in New York City, United States), was a Russian dancer and teacher.\n\nVladimirov graduated from the Imperial Ballet School in 1911 and remained a member of the Imperial Ballet company until 1918. In 1915, he received the title of the first dancer.\n\nIn 1920, he and his later wife Felia Doubrovska emigrated to the West, where they joined the Ballets Russes; all roles of Vaslav Nijinsky went to Pierre Vladimiroff (Nijinsky left the Diaghilev company in 1917). He danced the prince in the 1921 production The Sleeping Princess. Later, he danced with the Mordkin Ballet and joined Anna Pavlova's company on Pavlova's last tour, becoming her last partner.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1967, he taught at the School of American Ballet, being the first teacher of the newly founded school to teach the male students.\n\nAmong his students were Todd Bolender, John Taras, Willam Christensen, William Dollar, Nicholas Magallanes, Francisco Moncion, Tanaquil LeClercq, and Maria Tallchief.\n\nHe was for some time a lover of Mathilde Kschessinska, who at this time was living with Andrei Vladimirovich Romanov. Andrei Romanov called Pierre Vladimiroff to a duel and shot him in the nose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26206335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26206335", "title": "Polytechnic Secondary School", "text": "Polytechnic Secondary School\n\nThe polytechnic secondary school, officially \"ten-class general educational polytechnic secondary school\", abbreviation POS, pronounced P-O-S, was the standard type of school in the school system of East Germany. The POS was established in 1959 to replace the hitherto existing \"Grundschule\". The school structure was a ten-class comprehensive school without any internal or external differentiation. There was a final examination at the end of the 10th grade called \"Abschlußprüfung\", granting the \"Abschlußzeugnis\" which allowed to continue one's education to vocational training. Students with very good achievements at school were admitted to college studies or a unique education program that combined the studies of the extended secondary school and a vocational training. Students with honors got entrance to the extended polytechnic secondary school. The general style of teaching was a rather strict and authoritative version of different, highly efficient techniques of classroom management, used long before Jacob Kounin described this concept in the USA in 1974.\n\nThe German designation of this type of school was officially \"Zehnklassige allgemeinbildende polytechnische Oberschule\", shortened \"polytechnische Oberschule\", later capitalized \"Polytechnische Oberschule\" by the education act of 1965, in documents of the Ministry of People's Education often called ambiguously \"Oberschule\" since 1966.\n\nThe table of lessons determined the workload of a student, in other words the number of lessons which were taught on each subject every week.\nOne lesson lasted 45 minutes.\n\nThe school reform in East Germany in 1965 with its new education act brought a lot of changes to the POS.\nThe compulsory subject Needlework was cancelled and transformed into an elective subject recommended for girls.\nThe successful concept of the school garden and its cultivation was established as a compulsory subject\nto expand the agricultural elements, to directly prepare the subject Biology and to extend the time of being outside in touch with nature. Because of an in-depth revision of the curriculum - the contents of physical geography and earth sciences were reduced, the contents of economic geography and political geography were increased - Geography was not a strong scientific subject anymore and drifted to the subject group of languages, arts and sociological-political studies.\n\nAs the table shows, the number of lessons for one week was distinctly reduced in comparison to 1959. This measure led to vigorous criticism behind closed doors because the POS was initially designed as a further developed concept of the former German Realgymnasium. The tough compulsory workload, which exceeded the workload of any contemporary West German type of school by far, especially in German language, mathematics, sciences and technics, ensured a high academic achievement for all children. The Ministry of People's Education justified the controversial reduction as a reorientation of the curriculum focussing on the essentials and providing more freedom of choice for the students. Nevertheless, even the reduced number of lessons still exceeded the vast majority of West German schools and even today the amount of compulsory teaching of German language, mathematics, sciences and technics has not been reached again. The other side of the non-public criticism was the expansion of the ideology-burdened subjects like politics at the same time.\n\nAdditional elective courses were established at the beginning of the eighties. Each course was built on a specific framework program given by the Ministry of People's education, but the standards were more general and not tight like the curriculum for the compulsory subjects. The teacher could take a lot of liberty to plan and teach an additional elective course. Most of the courses covered topics from mathematics, physics, chemistry, crafts, arts, architecture, music, technical studies and conversation in a foreign language. All of these courses were very popular among students.\n\nAt the end of the 10th grade all students had to pass a number of large-scale compulsory and optionally compulsory exams.\nThere were both written exams and oral exams.\n\n\nAt first the exams in German language, mathematics and sciences were carried out on three consecutive days without any break starting on a Monday, followed by the exam in Russian language on the next Monday. During the seventies the examination week was reorganized and there was a day off between every single exam.\n\nAbout four weeks later the written exams were followed by the oral exams. All students had to take at least two exams and could take five exams at the most. The number of subjects and the subjects the students had to take the exam in, individually were determined by the teacher's council for every student. Students who probably would graduate with honors had to take five oral exams.\n"}
{"id": "40147980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40147980", "title": "Richard Thomas (dancer)", "text": "Richard Thomas (dancer)\n\nRichard Scott Thomas (December 3, 1925 – July 27, 2013) was an American dancer, educator, and co-founder of the New York School of Ballet along with his wife Barbara Fallis. He is known as a teacher of Eliot Feld and Twyla Tharp\n\nThomas was born on December 3, 1925, in Kentucky. Following his first exposure to a performance by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo – while visiting relatives in Seattle, Washington – he entered the tutelage of Russian ballet dancer and choreographer Bronislava Nijinska in Los Angeles, and Vincenzo Celli and Anatole Vilzak in New York. Thomas subsequently appeared on Broadway in Kiss Me Kate and Billion Dollar Baby.\n\nDuring his early career with the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo and Ballet Theatre, Thomas met fellow dancer Barbara Fallis, whom he married in Cuba in 1950 while both were on tour with the Company Alicia Alonso (later the National Ballet of Cuba). Their son – future Emmy-winning actor and \"The Waltons\" star Richard Thomas – was born a year later. Thomas's first teaching experience also occurred there, when Fernando Alonso attempted to develop a school by selecting pupils from a local orphanage and asked Thomas to assist.\n\nThe Thomases returned to Manhattan to dance with the New York City Ballet from 1953 to 1958. During this time Thomas was a frequent soloist and member of the premiere casts of Todd Bolender's \"Souvenirs\", Balanchine's \"Jeux\", and Jerome Robbins's \"The Concert\" (or The Perils of Everybody). Thomas left the New York City Ballet in 1958 to join the circus but soon returned to the city to indulge his overriding desire to teach.\n\nThomas, who was known by his friends and pupils as \"Dick\" or \"Dicky,\" first joined Harry Asmus at a school on Broadway and 54th Street, chiefly working with students from the High School of the Performing Arts. He later was employed at the schools of June Taylor and Robert Joffrey, whose company he escorted to Russia. In 1963 he abandoned a position at American Ballet Theatre to open what would become the New York School of Ballet on West 56th Street, with his wife. Thomas and Fallis alternated shifts at the Pennsylvania Ballet in Philadelphia to fund their fledgling school, out of which Eliot Feld founded the American Ballet Company.\n\nIn 1969 George Balanchine and Lincoln Kerstein offered the couple the former studios of the School of American Ballet, at 2291 Broadway between 82nd and 83rd Street. Thomas taught well-established and up-and-coming students in his daily classes, including Cynthia Gregory, Debbie Allen, Christine Sarry, Twyla Tharp, Sean Lavery, and Feld.\n\nIn 1975 following Feld's departure, the couple formed U.S. Terpsichore, as a touring showcase of the most advanced New York School of Ballet students. Daniel Levans (b. 1953) served as co-artistic director and choreographer of the troupe, composed of approximately 25 to 40 members, mostly teenagers – including Thomas's and Fallis's children Richard and Bronwyn Thomas (b. 1960). Their repertory of over 30 ballets included both the classic and the contemporary, such as the work of Merce Cunningham and Levans.\n\nThomas was one of the first ballet directors to arrange performances for schools. The troupe originally appeared in New York City and Kentucky venues, until a 1976–1977 series of nationwide performances contracted with Columbia Artists Management, inc., who insisted the ten-member troupe appear under the title of \"Richard Thomas Theatre Ballet\"; this led to further extensive traveling through the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. The revenue from sold-out houses helped fund the school. In 1984 he raised $370,000 to organize and host the First International Ballet Competition with co-founder Ilona Copen; the competition – which unconventionally required all participants to perform the same four pas de deux rather than their own selected dances – still continues to this day.\n\nAfter Fallis's death in 1980, Thomas directed the troupe and operated the School until its forced closure in 1985. He continued to teach, chiefly children, commencing work in 1990 at Feld's Ballet Tech School, which educated minority students at New York City public schools. Thomas eventually retired to a farm in Kentucky, where he committed to an already established second career in dog breeding and showing until his death on July 27, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "20021192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20021192", "title": "Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009", "text": "Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009\n\nThe Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act or Right to Education Act (RTE) is an Act of the Parliament of India enacted on 4 August 2009, which describes the modalities of the importance of free and compulsory education for children between the age of 6 to 14 years in India under Article 21A of the Indian Constitution. India became one of 135 countries to make education a fundamental right of every child when the act came into force on 1 April 2010. The title of the RTE Act incorporates the words ‘free and compulsory’. ‘Free education’ means that no child, other than a child who has been admitted by his or her parents to a school which is not supported by the appropriate Government, shall be liable to pay any kind of fee or charges or expenses which may prevent him or her from pursuing and completing elementary education. ‘Compulsory education’ casts an obligation on the appropriate Government and local authorities to provide and ensure admission, attendance and completion of elementary education by all children in the 6-14 age group. With this, India has moved forward to a rights based framework that casts a legal obligation on the Central and State Governments to implement this fundamental child right as enshrined in the Article 21A of the Constitution, in accordance with the provisions of the RTE Act.17.\n\nPresent Act has its history in the drafting of the Indian constitution at the time of Independence but is more specifically to the Constitutional Amendment of 2002 that included the Article 21A in the Indian constitution making Education a fundamental Right. This amendment, however, specified the need for a legislation to describe the mode of implementation of the same which necessitated the drafting of a separate Education Bill. It is the 86th amendment in the Indian Constitution.\n\nA rough draft of the bill was prepared in year 2005. It caused considerable controversy due to its mandatory provision to provide 25% reservation for disadvantaged children in private schools. The sub-committee of the Central Advisory Board of Education which prepared the draft Bill held this provision as a significant prerequisite for creating a democratic and egalitarian society. Indian Law commission had initially proposed 50% reservation for disadvantaged students in private schools.\n\nOn 7 May 2014, The Supreme Court of India ruled that Right to Education Act is not applicable to Minority institutions.\n\nThe bill was approved by the cabinet on 2 July 2009. Rajya Sabha passed the bill on 20 July 2009 and the Lok Sabha on 4 August 2009. It received Presidential assent and was notified as law on 26 August 2009 as The Children's Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act. The law came into effect in the whole of India except the state of Jammu and Kashmir from 1 April 2010, the first time in the history of India a law was brought into force by a speech by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. In his speech, Dr. Singh stated, \"We are committed to ensuring that all children, irrespective of gender and social category, have access to education. An education that enables them to acquire the skills, knowledge, values and attitudes necessary to become responsible and active citizens of India.\"\n\nThe RTE Act provides for the right of children to free and compulsory education till completion of elementary education in a neighbourhood school. It clarifies that ‘compulsory education’ means obligation of the appropriate government to provide free elementary education and ensure compulsory admission, attendance and completion of elementary education to every child in the six to fourteen age group. ‘Free’ means that no child shall be liable to pay any kind of fee or charges or expenses which may prevent him or her from pursuing and completing elementary education.\n\nIt makes provisions for a non-admitted child to be admitted to an age appropriate class.\n\nIt specifies the duties and responsibilities of appropriate Governments, local authority and parents in providing free and compulsory education, and sharing of financial and other responsibilities between the Central and State Governments.\n\nIt lays down the norms and standards relating inter alia to pupil teacher ratios (PTRs), buildings and infrastructure, school-working days, teacher-working hours.\n\nIt provides for rational deployment of teachers by ensuring that the specified pupil teacher ratio is maintained for each school, rather than just as an average for the State or District or Block, thus ensuring that there is no urban-rural imbalance in teacher postings. It also provides for prohibition of deployment of teachers for non-educational work, other than decennial census, elections to local authority, state legislatures and parliament, and disaster relief.\n\nIt provides for appointment of appropriately trained teachers, i.e. teachers with the requisite entry and academic qualifications.\n\nIt prohibits (a) physical punishment and mental harassment; (b) screening procedures for admission of children; (c) capitation fee; (d) private tuition by teachers and (e) running of schools without recognition.\n\nIt provides for development of curriculum in consonance with the values enshrined in the Constitution, and which would ensure the all-round development of the child, building on the child’s knowledge, potentiality and talent and making the child free of fear, trauma and anxiety through a system of child friendly and child centered learning.\n\nThe Act makes education a fundamental right of every child between the ages of 6 and 14 and specifies minimum norms in elementary schools. It requires all private schools(except the minority institutions) to reserve 25% of seats for the poor and other categories of children (to be reimbursed by the state as part of the public-private partnership plan). Children are admitted in to private schools based on caste-based reservations. See Page 9 and Point no 4 of This Document. It also prohibits all unrecognised schools from practice, and makes provisions for no donation or capitation fees and no interview of the child or parent for admission. The Act also provides that no child shall be held back, expelled, or required to pass a board examination until the completion of elementary education. There is also a provision for special training of school drop-outs to bring them up to par with students of the same age.\n\nThe RTE act requires survyus that will monitor all neighbourhoods, identify children requiring education, and set up facilities for providing it.\nThe World Bank education specialist for India, Sam Carlson, has observed:\nThe Right to Education of persons with disabilities until 18 years of age is laid down under a separate legislation- the Persons with Disabilities Act. A number of other provisions regarding improvement of school infrastructure, teacher-student ratio and faculty are made in the Act.\n\nEducation in the Indian constitution is a concurrent issue and both centre and states can legislate on the issue. The Act lays down specific responsibilities for the centre, state and local bodies for its implementation. The states have been clamouring that they lack financial capacity to deliver education of appropriate standard in all the schools needed for universal education. Thus it was clear that the central government (which collects most of the revenue) will be required to subsidise the states.\n\nA committee set up to study the funds requirement and funding initially estimated that Rs 1710 billion or 1.71 trillion (US$38.2 billion) across five years was required to implement the Act, and in April 2010 the central government agreed to sharing the funding for implementing the law in the ratio of 65 to 35 between the centre and the states, and a ratio of 90 to 10 for the north-eastern states. However, in mid 2010, this figure was upgraded to Rs. 2310 billion, and the center agreed to raise its share to 68%.\nThere is some confusion on this, with other media reports stating that the centre's share of the implementation expenses would now be 70%. At that rate, most states may not need to increase their education budgets substantially.\n\nA critical development in 2011 has been the decision taken in principle to extend the right to education till Class X (age 16) and into the preschool age range. The CABE committee is in the process of looking into the implications of making these changes.\n\nThe Ministry of HRD set up a high-level, 14-member National Advisory Council (NAC) for implementation of the Act. The members include\n\nA report on the status of implementation of the Act was released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on the one-year anniversary of the Act. The report admits that 8.1 million children in the age group 6-14 remain out of school and there’s a shortage of 508,000 teachers country-wide. A shadow report by the RTE Forum, representing the leading education networks in the country led by Ambarish Rai (a prominent activist), however, challenging the findings pointing out that several key legal commitments are falling behind the schedule.(http://www.rteforumindia.org/) The Supreme Court of India has also intervened to demand implementation of the Act in the Northeast. It has also provided the legal basis for ensuring pay parity between teachers in government and government aided schools\n\nHaryana Government has assigned the duties and responsibilities to Block Elementary Education Officers–cum–Block Resource Coordinators (BEEOs-cum-BRCs) for effective implementation and continuous monitoring of implementation of Right to Education Act in the State.\n\nIt has been pointed out that the RTE act is not new. Universal adult franchise in the act was opposed since most of the population was illiterate. Article 45 in the Constitution of India was set up as an act:\nAs that deadline was about to be passed many decades ago, the education minister at the time, M C Chagla, memorably said: \n\nIn the 1990s, the World Bank funded a number of measures to set up schools within easy reach of rural communities. This effort was consolidated in the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan model in the 1990s. RTE takes the process further, and makes the enrolment of children in schools a state prerogative.\n\nThe act has been criticised for being hastily drafted, not consulting many groups active in education, not considering the quality of education, infringing on the rights of private and religious minority schools to administer their system, and for excluding children under six years of age. Many of the ideas are seen as continuing the policies of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan of the last decade, and the World Bank funded District Primary Education Programme DPEP of the '90s, both of which, while having set up a number of schools in rural areas, have been criticised for being ineffective and corruption-ridden.\n\nThe quality of education provided by the government school system is not good. While it remains the largest provider of elementary education in the country, forming 80% of all recognised schools, it suffers from shortage of teachers and infrastructural gaps. Several habitations lack schools altogether. There are also frequent allegations of government schools being riddled with absenteeism and mismanagement and of appointments made on political convenience. Despite the allure of free lunch in the government schools, many parents send their children to private schools. Average schoolteacher salaries in private rural schools in some States (about Rs. 4,000 per month) are considerably lower than those in government schools. As a result, the proponents of low-cost private schools critique the government schools as being poor value for money.\n\nChildren attending the private schools are seen to be at an advantage, forming a discrimination against the weakest sections who are forced to go to government schools. Furthermore, the system has been criticised as catering to the rural elites who are able to afford school fees in a country where a large number of families live in absolute poverty.\nThe act has been criticised as discriminatory for not addressing these issues. Well-known educationist Anil Sadgopal said of the hurriedly drafted act: \n\nEntrepreneur Gurcharan Das noted that 54% of urban children attend private schools, and this rate is growing at 3% per year. \"Even the poor children are abandoning the government schools. They are leaving because the teachers are not showing up.\" However, other researchers have countered the argument by saying that the evidence for higher standard of quality in private schools often disappears when other factors (like family income and parental literacy) are accounted for.\n\nTo address these quality issues, the Act has provisions for compensating private schools for admission of children under the 25% quota which has been compared to school vouchers, whereby parents may \"send\" their children in any school, private or public. This measure, along with the increase in PPP (Public Private Partnership) has been viewed by some organisations such as the All-India Forum for Right to Education (AIF-RTE), as the state abdicating its \"constitutional obligation towards providing elementary education\".\n\nThe \"Society for Un-aided Private Schools\", Rajasthan (in \"Writ Petition (Civil) No. 95 of 2010\") and as many as 31 others petitioned the Supreme Court of India claiming that the act violates the constitutional right of private managements to run their institutions without governmental interference. The parties claimed that providing 25 percent reservation for disadvantaged children in government and private unaided schools is \"unconstitutional.\"\n\nForcing unaided schools to admit 25% disadvantaged students has also been criticized on the grounds that the government has partly transferred its constitutional obligation to provide free and compulsory elementary education to children on “non-state actors,” like private schools, while collecting a 2% cess on the total tax payable for primary education.\nOn 12 April 2012, a three judge bench of the Supreme Court delivered its judgement by a majority of 2-1. Chief Justice SH Kapadia and Justice Swatanter Kumar held that providing such reservation is not unconstitutional, but stated that the Act will not be applicable to private minority schools and boarding schools. However, Justice K. S. Panicker Radhakrishnan dissented with the majority view and held that the Act cannot apply to both minority and non-minority private schools that do not receive aid from the government.\n\nIn September 2012, the Supreme Court subsequently declined a review petition on the Act.\n\nIn May 2016, the Chetpet-based CBSE school Maharishi Vidya Mandir became embroiled in a scandal over its circumvention of the 25% quota rule. During its admissions cycle, the school told economically weaker parents \"the RTE does not exist,\" and, \"we do not take these [government RTE] applications.\" The senior principal also informed the Tamil Nadu Regional Director of the CBSE that he intended to \"reject applicants without an email address,\" thereby excluding technically illiterate parents from seeking admissions. In addition, school officials falsified the distance figures of several poorer candidates in attempts to disqualify them from availing of the scheme.\n\nThe Act provides for admission of children without any certification. However, several states have continued pre-existing procedures insisting that children produce income and caste certificates, BPL cards and birth certificates. Orphan children are often unable to produce such documents, even though they are willing to do so. As a result, schools are not admitting them, as they require the documents as a condition to admission.\n"}
{"id": "327999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327999", "title": "SASI (software)", "text": "SASI (software)\n\nSASI (Schools Administrative Student Information) or SASI Student Information System is a computer program developed by Macro Educational Computer Systems, who was acquired by National Computer Systems (NCS) and NCS was acquired by Pearson in 1997. The cross-platform system provides administrators and educators with access to student demographics, attendance, schedules, discipline, grades, extended test histories, and state reporting codes. Features of SASI include SASIxp, InteGrade Pro, classroomXP, and Parent Access. In 2003, more than 16,000 schools nationwide used the software.\n\n"}
{"id": "4995190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995190", "title": "Scripted teaching", "text": "Scripted teaching\n\nScripted teaching or scripted instruction refers to commercial reading programs that have highly structured lessons, often with specific time allotments for teaching specific skills, and often word-for-word scripts of what the teacher is to say. Scripted instruction has often been advocated for schools where teachers have had inadequate teacher training and is also seen as way to standardize the quality of instruction. Critics say that such programs stifle teachers' creativity, undermine teachers' expertise, and fail to provide for the diverse needs of many classrooms. Advocates see it as the easiest way to provide teachers with the essential elements of effective reading instruction. Scripted instruction has also been applied to preparation of lessons in many other subject matter areas.\n\nOne widely used program using scripts is the Success for All reading instruction program.\n\nScripted instruction has been an integral part of the direct instruction (DI) approach to education which has been presented as a structured alternative to the constructionist approaches to teaching such as discovery learning.\n\nThere is extensive additional information on scripted teaching available on the International Reading Association website.\n\nScripted teaching can be traced back as far as 1888 where Samuel and Adeline Monroe published text for teachers that provided them with scripts for teaching reading readiness, phonics, and oral reading (Commeyras 2007). In this method of teaching, the teacher is expected to read the lesson scripts verbatim. It is a form of direct instruction meant to guide teachers in order to sustain consistency in teaching strategies by teachers. It also hopes to eliminate the risk of poor instruction by inexperienced teachers (Lee). Its purpose of strict adherence to the script is targeted more towards schools with low standardized test scores so that the concepts being taught can be delivered in a consistent manner, in hopes that the students will understand the lessons more clearly. This strategy is becoming more prevalent in US school districts, as well as schools throughout the world (Reeves 2010).\n\nMany school districts are moving to scripted teaching programs with a goal of improving students’ standardized test scores. With more pressure being put on teachers to have their students achieve higher standardized test scores, teachers are looking to use scripted teaching programs as an aid to teach these concepts to their students, hoping that it will be a more effective way of teaching (Guccione 2011). Scripts designed for teaching curriculum are not meant to eliminate the amount of teacher preparation, but are to be used as a scaffold for teachers to adhere to the topics and skills required of students. When used properly, scripted teaching programs are used as a tool that teachers can add and subtract parts of the structure to create a learning environment that facilitates appropriate instruction individualized to the needs of their learners (Guccione 2011). Hundreds of schools could be using the same scripted curriculum; however, if used appropriately, their lessons will be carried out differently as a reflection of the diverse learners in their respective classrooms. The goal is that all of the students will learn the same concepts and be able to use the knowledge that comes from the scripted lessons.\n\nScripted teaching is influenced by behaviorist learning theory (Reeves 2010). It uses repetition as a way to reinforce the concepts that students are learning. Some scripted learning programs (for example, Language for Learning) go through an error correction process when a student answers a question incorrectly. Using a behavioral approach to teaching and learning, micro skills such as spelling are practiced meticulously and are perfected before moving onto macro skills such as writing or reading longer passages (Reeves 2010).\n\nA common critique about scripted teaching presumes that any person can come into a classroom and teach a lesson if they follow the script (Commeyras 2007). However, proponents of scripted teaching maintain that just like an actor brings life to his script, a teacher can and must use his own personality to breathe life into the teaching script (Commeyras 2007). Scripted teaching programs are meant to be used as a support for teachers to help them develop their own teaching style and confidence in their teaching ability (Reeves 2010). Teachers who are first introduced to scripted teaching tend to feel that they are being held back from utilizing their own knowledge when they are required to instruct using an external script (Reeves 2010). This also leads to teachers feeling that they cannot respond when a student answers with an unusual answer (Parks & Bridges-Rhoads 2012); however, teachers who are experienced in scripted teaching find a way to build on the unusual answers and find their way back to the script. Teachers who have learned that reading written language involves accuracy, fluency, self-monitoring, and comprehension are more successful at scripted teaching (Commeyras 2007). A final critique is that scripted teaching de-professionalizes teachers, stifling their creative potential (Reeves 2010).\n\nCommeyras, M. (2007, January). Scripted reading instruction? What's a teacher educator to do?. Phi Delta Kappan, Vol. 88, No. 05, January\n2007, pp. 404–407. Retrieved from http://www.pdkmembers.org/members_online/publications/Archive/pdf/k0701com.pdf\n\nEisenbach, B. (2012). Teacher Belief and Practice in a Scripted Curriculum. The Clearing House : A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas, 85:4, pp. 153–156. \n\nGuccione, L. (2011, January). The tale of two schools: Making room for relation within scripted programs. Schools: Studies In Education, 8(2), 252-264\n\nLee, M. (n.d.). Is your child being taught from a script?. Retrieved from http://www.education.com/magazine/article/Scripted_Teaching/\n\nParks, A., & Bridges-Rhoads, S. (2012). Overly Scripted: Exploring the Impact of a Scripted Literacy Curriculum on a Preschool Teacher's Instructional Practices in Mathematics. Journal of Research in Childhood Education, 26(3), 308-324\n\nReeves, J. (2010, July). Teacher learning by script. Language Teaching Research, 14(3), 241-258\n\n"}
{"id": "57823962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57823962", "title": "Sea Trader: Rise of Taipan", "text": "Sea Trader: Rise of Taipan\n\nSea Trader: Rise of Taipan is a simulation video game developed and published by Jaleco Entertainment's American division. The game was released exclusively in North America on November 13, 2002 for the Game Boy Advance. In \"Sea Trader\", the player controls a ship and tries to build a trading empire by selling goods between different ports. Reception was mixed, with praise directed towards the game's addictive nature while criticism focused on its dated graphics and its somewhat bare-bones gameplay.\n\n\"Sea Trader: Rise of Taipan\" is a shipping simulation game, where the player's goal is to make as much money as possible. The player makes profit by buying goods in one port and then selling them in another. Players can also use money to bribe customs officials into allowing them to offload illicit goods that are worth more money. The game takes place over a one, five, or ten year period depending on the player's choice at the beginning of the game. Money is used to upgrade the player's ship, bribe bartenders into getting gossip and tips, as well as buying maps to access more ports among other things. Random encounters with pirates and other events happen during transit between ports—the action is always confined to menus, and contains little gameplay outside the economics simulation of the game.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews from critics, who felt that the game managed to be addictive despite its lackluster gameplay and graphics. It has received a 68% from review aggregator Metacritic. IGN's Craig Harris praised the game's replayability and addictive nature, but criticized its lack of \"pizazz\". GameSpot's Frank Provo called the game a \"welcome change\" and noted that it was a \"relatively unique\" experience for handheld systems like the Game Boy Advance. \"GamePro\" criticized the game for having \"no action to speak of\".\n"}
{"id": "4420298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4420298", "title": "Tatiana Day", "text": "Tatiana Day\n\nTatiana Day (, \"Tatyanin den\") is a Russian religious holiday observed on 25 January according to the Gregorian calendar, January 12 according to the Julian. It is named after Saint Tatiana, a Christian martyr in 3rd-century Rome during the reign of Emperor Alexander Severus.\n\nIn 1755, on the name day of Ivan Shuvalov's mother Tatiana Rodionovna, his mistress Empress Elizabeth of Russia endorsed his petition to establish a university in Moscow. Shuvalov was Minister of Education. The church of Saint Tatiana was later built in the university campus. A traditional service is conducted at the University’s church on 25 January, followed by speeches and the awarding of prizes.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church declared Saint Tatiana the patron saint of students, and Tatiana Day has come to be celebrated as \"Russian Students Day\". The observance has a long tradition of festive activities. In 1885, Chekhov wrote, \"This year everything was drunk, except the water from the Moscow river, and only because it was frozen\". Parties begin with a traditional honey-based mead. Although originating in Moscow, St. Tatiana's Day celebrations have spread to most university towns.\n\nCoincidentally 25 January is also the end of the first term of the traditional academic year for Russian students – the end of winter exams session, followed by a two-week winter holiday.\n\n"}
{"id": "1096936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096936", "title": "The Abolition of Man", "text": "The Abolition of Man\n\nThe Abolition of Man is a 1943 book by C. S. Lewis. Subtitled \"Reflections on education with special reference to the teaching of English in the upper forms of schools,\" it uses that as a starting point for a defense of objective value and natural law as well as a warning of the consequences of doing away with or \"debunking\" those things. It defends science as something worth pursuing but criticizes using it to debunk values, the value of science itself being among them, or defining it to exclude such values. The book was first delivered as a series of three evening lectures at King's College, Newcastle, part of the University of Durham, as the Riddell Memorial Lectures on February 24 to 26, 1943.\n\nLewis begins with a critical response to \"The Green Book\" by \"Gaius and Titius\": \"The Control of Language: A Critical Approach to Reading and Writing\", published in 1939 by Alexander (\"Alec\") King and Martin Ketley. \"The Green Book\" was used as a text for upper form students in British schools.\n\nLewis criticises the authors for subverting student values and claims that they teach that all statements of value (such as \"this waterfall is sublime\") are merely statements about the speaker's feelings and say nothing about the object. Such a view, Lewis argues, makes nonsense of value talk. It implies, for example, that when a speaker who condemns some act as contemptible is really saying, \"I have contemptible feelings.\"\n\nBy denying that values are real or that sentiments can be reasonable, subjectivism saps moral motivation and robs people of the ability to respond emotionally to experiences of real goodness and real beauty in literature and in the world. Moreover, Lewis claims that it is impossible to be a consistent moral subjectivist. Even the authors of \"The Green Book\" clearly believe that some things, such as improved student learning, are truly good and desirable.\n\nLewis cites ancient thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle and Augustine, who believed that the purpose of education was to train children in \"ordinate affections\", to train them to like and dislike what they ought and to love the good and hate the bad. Lewis claims that although such values are universal, they do not develop automatically or inevitably in children. Thus, they are not \"natural\" in that sense of the word, but they must be taught through education. Those who lack them lack the specifically human element, the trunk that unites intellectual man with visceral (animal) man, and they may be called \"men without chests\".\n\nLewis criticizes modern attempts to debunk \"natural\" values, such as those that would deny objective value to the waterfall, on rational grounds. He says that there is a set of objective values that have been shared, with minor differences, by every culture, which he refers to as \"the traditional moralities of East and West, the Christian, the Pagan, and the Jew...\". Lewis calls that the \"Tao\", from the Taoist word for the ultimate \"way\" or \"path\" of reality and human conduct. (Although Lewis saw natural law as supernatural in origin, as evidenced by his use of it as a proof of theism in \"Mere Christianity\", his argument in the book does not rest on theism.)\n\nWithout the \"Tao\", no value judgments can be made at all, and modern attempts to do away with some parts of traditional morality for some \"rational\" reason always proceed by arbitrarily selecting one part of the \"Tao\" and using it as grounds to debunk the others.\n\nThe final chapter describes the ultimate consequences of this debunking: a distant future in which the values and morals of the majority are controlled by a small group who rule by a \"perfect\" understanding of psychology, and who in turn, being able to \"see through\" any system of morality that might induce them to act in a certain way, are ruled only by their own unreflected whims. In surrendering rational reflection on their own motivations, the controllers will no longer be recognizably human, the controlled will be robot-like, and the Abolition of Man will have been completed.\n\nAn appendix to \"The Abolition of Man\" lists a number of basic values seen by Lewis as parts of the \"Tao\", supported by quotations from different cultures.\n\nA fictional treatment of the dystopian project to carry out the \"Abolition of Man\" is a theme of Lewis's novel \"That Hideous Strength.\"\n\nPassages from \"The Abolition of Man\" are included in William Bennett's 1993 book \"The Book of Virtues\".\n\nCritical discussion of \"The Abolition of Man\" often centers on the following points:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27073972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27073972", "title": "The Princeton University Summer Journalism Program", "text": "The Princeton University Summer Journalism Program\n\nThe Princeton University Summer Journalism Program (SJP) is an all-expense paid summer program at Princeton University for rising high school seniors across the country from low-income backgrounds. It was founded in 2002 by four former 'Daily Princetonian' editors. The founding directors include former editor-in-chief of \"The Daily Princetonian\", Richard Just (Princeton Class of 2001), former editor of \"The New Republic\", Michael Koike '01, Gregory Mancini '01 and Rich Tucker '01.\n\nThe program is highly selective and open to outstanding students interested in journalism. Since it was founded, the program has graduated about 200 alumni who have gone on to pursue journalism at Ivy League and other highly selective schools including Princeton. Alumni have received jobs or internships at \"The New York Times\", \"Newsweek\", \"The Miami Herald\", \"The New York Daily News\",\"The Dallas Morning News\", \"The Star-Ledger\", NBC and CBS, among other outlets.\n\nThe Princeton University Summer Journalism Program was founded under the name \"The Daily Princeton Class of 2001 Summer Journalism Program\" in recognition of the founding of the program by 'Prince' editors from the Class of 2001. In 2006, it partnered with Princeton University and was renamed.\n\nOn November 11, 2009, the directors of the program were recognized as 'Tigers of the Week' by the Princeton Alumni Weekly. The program directors were also awarded the Princeton Alumni Award for Community Service in May 2007.\n\nIn January 2008, Richard Just wrote an article about the program in \"The Washington Post\" titled, \"Unmuzzling High School Journalists\".\n\nThe creation of the program was sparked by a series the paper wrote about race on campus, the final one examining diversity within the newsroom at \"The Daily Princetonian\". \"\n\n"}
{"id": "44470312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44470312", "title": "Third World Liberation Front", "text": "Third World Liberation Front\n\nIn 1968, the Third World Liberation Front (TWLF), a coalition of the Black Students Union, the Latin American Students Organization, the Pilipino American Collegiate Endeavor (PACE) the Filipino-American Students Organization, the Asian American Political Alliance, and El Renacimiento, a Mexican-American student organization, formed at San Francisco State University (SFSU) to call for campus reform. Another Third World Liberation Front formed at University of California, Berkeley in January 1969. These coalitions initiated and sustained the longest student strikes in US history.\n\nStudent actions began in June of the 1967-1968 school year, when students protest administration's practice of providing students' academic standing to the Selective Service Office in June 1967. When students returned from summer break, tensions escalated. On 6 November 1967, James Vasko, Gater editor, was assaulted by black students who were offended by the content and tone of one of his articles. Students began to protest both the charges the students were facing and the Vietnam war. As a result of the campus unrest, Dr. John Summerskill, the president of the college, resigned in February 1968, effective in September. On March 23, 1968, the twLF occupied the YMCA office on campus and moved the YMCA out. Student actions continued throughout May, calling for an end to Air-Force ROTC on campus, the need for programs to admit 400 students from the ghetto in the fall semester, and the hiring of nine minority faculty members to help the minority students. 26 people were arrested.\n\nIn June 1968, Dr. Robert Smith was hired to replace Summerskill as the President of San Francisco State College. In the following September, George Mason Murray, a graduate student in English and Black Panther Minister of Education, was hired as a teaching assistant to teach special introductory English classes for 400 special students admitted to the college. President Smith also announced the creation of a Black Studies Department and named Professor of Sociology, Dr. Nathan Hare, Acting Chair. At the end of the month, California State College Trustees voted to ask President Smith to reassign George Murray to a non-teaching position after he reportedly made controversial statements at Fresno State College and at San Francisco State. President Smith refused.\n\nOn 31 October, Chancellor Glenn Dumke ordered President Smith to suspend Murray. The BSU proposed a strike on November 6 if Murray was suspended, and presented their 15 demands. The next day, 1 November, President Smith suspended George Murray.\n\nOn 6 November, exactly a year after the Gater incident, the Black Students Union and Third World Liberation Front members struck for a larger Black Studies Program and for the reinstatement of George Murray. Administration called police after students marched on the Administration Building. The campus closed during the week of 13 November, due to the escalating number of student-police confrontations. \nGovernor Ronald Reagan and school trustees called for the reopening of campus on November 18, 1968. Additionally, a faculty grievance committee reported back that George Murray was suspended without due process.\nOn 20 November, approximately 10% of the students returned to campus for departmental discussions. Administration had also created a Convocation to discuss the protests, which continued throughout the 26th. During this time, President Smith resigned, and his position was filled by Dr. S. I. Hayakawa, whose first official act was to keep the campus closed.\n\nWhen campus was reopened on 2 December, students resumed striking at the corner of 19th and Holloway Avenues, urging students to continue the strike and not attend classes. However, President Hayakawa climbed on top of the truck disconnected the wires from the speakers.\nLater in December, on the 11th, more than 50 American Federation of Teachers members set up an informational picket line around the campus, to pressure the Trustees to negotiate with the students. Two days later, the campus closed for winter holidays, one week earlier than usual.\n\nWhen school resumed on 6 January 1969, actions by teachers and students continued, including more pickets and a \"book-in,\" where students took books from around a library and placed them back at the Circulation Desk, to clog library functions. In a 16 January interview with KQED, Ronald Reagan called the protesters, \"a dissident faction of outright lawbreakers and anarchists.\" On January 24, the New York Times reported that 380 protesters were arrested on campus.\n\nOn 4 February 1969, Judge Henry Rolph of San Francisco Superior Court ordered the San Francisco State AFT local to end the strike. Nathan Hare and George Mason Murray were both not rehired for the second year and strikes continued.\n\nFinally, on March 20, 1969 representatives of the TWLF, the Black Students Union, and the members of the Select Committee signed an agreement concerning the resolution of the fifteen demands and other issues arising from the student strike, and the strike officially ended on the 21st.\n\n\n\nIn January 1969, the Afro-American Studies Union, the Mexican-American Student Confederation (MASC), and the Asian American Political Alliance (AAPA) coalesced to form the Third World Liberation Front at UC Berkeley. The demands were as follows: \"1. Establishment of a Third World College with four departments; 2. Minority persons be appointed to administrative, faculty, and staff positions at all levels in all campus units; 3. Additional demands included Admission, financial aid, and academic assistance for minority students; Work-study positions for minority students in minority communities and on high school campuses; 4. Minorities be allowed to control all minority-related programs on campus; 5. No disciplinary action against student strikers.\" The strike was met with violent opposition with the police using tear gas and beating protesters.\n\nThe third world Liberation Front (twLF) was revived in 1999 at U.C. with a multiracial coalition of students organizing a hunger strike to push for more money for ethnic studies programs. The twLF organized a ten-hour long occupation of Barrows Hall and presented eight demands to the university administration seeking to expand ethnic studies. Six students were involved in a hunger strike outside of California Hall while students set up a twenty-four hour camp drawing hundreds of supporters every day. The Ethnic Studies faculty, including Professor Ron Takaki, Professor Carlos Munoz, and Professor Elaine Kim, joined in supporting the students. On the fourth night of the hunger strike, the University of California Police Department raided the camp and arrested eighty-three protesters. After eight days, the university administration agreed to seven of the eight student demands, and conditionally to the eighth demand. The strike resulted in the creation of the Multicultural Community Center, the Center for Race and Gender, and more faculty hires in the Department of Ethnic Studies.\n"}
{"id": "2340883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340883", "title": "Tirana International School", "text": "Tirana International School\n\nTirana International School, established in 1991, is an English-medium international school in Tirana, Albania. Its curriculum, while similar to US schools, contains links to both local culture and international educational elements. The current enrollment is approximately 200 students from 27 different countries in preK – 12th grade classes. Tirana International School is part of Quality Schools International and is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nThe curriculum focuses on English literacy skills, mathematics, cultural studies, the sciences, computer literacy, art, music, foreign languages (French, Spanish, German, Albanian and Russian) and physical education as part of the regular program. Intensive English classes are provided for those with a limited knowledge of the English language. \nTIS offers onsite College Board Advanced Placement courses. AP courses give students the opportunity to earn a credit or advanced standing at most colleges and universities in the United States and Europe.\n\nTirana International School adheres to a mastery learning approach to education that provides detailed feedback for students as they work toward ownership of the material. Grades reflect the current progress that students have made within a unit of study. The letter grade B is assigned when students demonstrate mastery of the subject, while an A grade represents mastery and the consistent, appropriate use of higher order thinking skills. Students are given opportunities to continue their studies through extension activities that might lead to the upgrading of a B to an A. Students that do not fully master units of study are awarded no passing grade.\n\nThere 23 full-time teachers currently employed at TIS and 3 part-time teachers. There are also 7 paraprofessionals employed that serve as classroom assistants and tutors.\n\nTirana International School offers a range of extra-curricular activities for students in the 5-year-old to the secondary level. Competitive sports and activities include volleyball, soccer, tennis, basketball, swimming, team robotics, model United Nations, cross country, and knowledge bowl. Musical activities include violin, guitar, piano, and choir. Younger children are offered a wide range of interest based activities four times a week after school. \n\nTirana International School is a founding member of the Tirana Association of International Schools (TAIS) and a long standing member of the Central and Eastern European School Association (CEESA). Middle school and secondary students participate in competitive and cultural events with member schools across Europe. \nTirana International School is situated on a 5.5-hectare site at the edge of the city in an upscale, secure residential area. The facility contains ample classroom space, music rooms, a full-size gymnasium, cafeteria, open air terrace, full science lab, two technology labs, and a workout room. The outside territory features a soccer pitch, tennis court, track, and a multi-purpose court.\n\n"}
{"id": "3377003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3377003", "title": "Washington Accord", "text": "Washington Accord\n\nThe Washington Accord is an international accreditation agreement for professional engineering academic degrees between the bodies responsible for accreditation in its signatory countries. Established in 1989, the full signatories as of 2018 are Australia, Canada, Taiwan, Pakistan, China, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Turkey, the United Kingdom, Philippines, Peru and the United States.\n\nThe agreement recognizes that there is substantial equivalence of programs accredited by those signatories. Graduates of accredited programs in any of the signatory countries are recognized by the other signatory countries as having met the academic requirements for entry to the practice of engineering. Recognition of accredited programs is not retroactive but takes effect only from the date of admission of the country to signatory status.\n\nThe Washington Accord covers undergraduate engineering degrees under Outcome-based education approach. Engineering technology and postgraduate engineering programs are not covered by the accord. Engineering technology programs are covered under the Sydney Accord and Dublin Accord. Only qualifications awarded after the signatory country or region became part of the Washington Accord are recognized. The accord is not directly responsible for the licensing of Professional Engineers and the registration of Chartered Engineers, but it does cover the academic requirements that are part of the licensing processes in signatory countries.\n\nThe following are the signatory countries and territories of the Washington Accord, their respective accreditation bodies and years of admission: \n\nThe following countries have provisional signatory status and may become member signatories in the future:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49681978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49681978", "title": "William Lewis Barrett", "text": "William Lewis Barrett\n\nWilliam Lewis Barrett, also W. Lewis Barrett, (1847–1927) was a professional flautist and music teacher.\n\nBarrett was born in 4 January 1847 in London. His parents were Mary (née Lewis) and Thomas Barrett, a violinist. His mother was from Dinas Mawddwy, Wales, where he began his education. Barrett then was schooled in Cemmes, Montgomeryshire. He learned to play the flute and violin, having studied the flute under Richard Shepherd Rockstro.\n\nHe began his career as a flautist by 1868, playing for the Italian Opera. He later played with the Sacred Harmonic Society, Royal Philharmonic Society, and the Carl Rosa Opera Company, having become the principal flautist. In addition to a number of performances for Queen Victoria, he performed in concerts and music festivals in the United Kingdom, United States, and Canada. D. Emlyn Evans said of his performances, \"Those who have heard Mr Barrett's solo work, whether in opera or at festivals, or playing obligato to one of the queens of song on the concert platform, can well understand and endorse Queen Victoria’s appreciation of his quality of tone…\"\n\nBetween 1883 and 1910, he taught the flute at the Royal College of Music. Barrett was also a composer. He died in London at the Savage Club on 10 January 1927, and was buried in Kensal Rise in northwest London.\n"}
{"id": "2822215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2822215", "title": "World Teachers' Day", "text": "World Teachers' Day\n\nWorld Teachers' Day, also known as International Teachers Day, is held annually on October 5. Established in 1994, it commemorates the signing of the 1966 UNESCO/ILO Recommendation concerning the Status of Teachers, which is a standard-setting instrument that addresses the status and situations of teachers around the world. This recommendation outlines standards relating to education personnel policy, recruitment, and initial training as well as the continuing education of teachers, their employment, and working conditions. World Teachers' Day aims to focus on \"appreciating, assessing and improving the educators of the world\" and to provide an opportunity to consider issues related to teachers and teaching. \n\nTo celebrate World Teachers' Day, the UNESCO and Education International (EI) mounts a campaign each year to help give the world better understanding of teachers and the role they play in the development of students and society. They partner with the private sector such as media organizations to achieve this purpose. The campaign focus on different themes for every year. For instance, \"Empowering Teachers” is the theme for 2017. This was the year World Teachers' Day commemorated the 20th anniversary of the 1997 UNESCO Recommendation concerning the Status of Higher-Education Teaching Personnel, bringing the sometimes-neglected area of teaching personnel at Higher Education institutions into the conversation about the status of teachers. \n\nFor 2018, the UNESCO adopted the theme: \"The right to education means the right to a qualified teacher.” It commemorates the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and serves as a reminder that the right to education cannot be realized without trained and qualified teachers. \n\nThe UNESCO cites that everyone can help by celebrating the profession, by generating awareness about teacher issues and by ensuring that teacher respect is part of the natural order of things. Schools and students, for instance, prepare an occasion for teachers during this day. More than 100 countries commemorate World Teachers' Day and each holds its own celebrations such as the case of India, which has been commemorating Teachers' Day every 5th of September.\n\n\n"}
