{"id": "35001881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35001881", "title": "Abbas Noyan", "text": "Abbas Noyan\n\nAbbas Noyan () is an ethnic Hazara politician in Afghanistan who served as a Member of Parliament to Wolesi Jirga, the lower house, representing the people of Kabul province from 2005 to 2010.\nIn 2005, he ranked seventh among candidates from Kabul province, quickly rising to one of the most prominent and active representatives at the Wolesi Jirga.\nDuring his tenure, he advocated for women's rights, education for all, a responsive and accountable government, and a strong rule of law. Noyan has worked across ethnic and sectarian divides in representing his constituents, and sought to bridge those divides by establishing a multi-ethnic political party.\n\nAbbas Noyan hails from Turkman Valley of Parwan province and grew up in Kabul. He was born in a politically active family; his father Haji Saleh Mohammad Khan was one of the elders of the Turkmani Hazaras and served as a Member of Parliament during Dawood Shah's reign. Abbas Noyan became politically active while still in high school, fighting against systematic discrimination of minority groups and for a responsive and accountable government for all. For his peaceful political protests, he was briefly imprisoned, suspended from school, and dispatched to serve his mandatory military service in Asmar district of Kunar province, one of the most dangerous parts of the country. \n\nAbbas Noyan went on to studying civil engineering at Polytechnic Institute. His classmates included Ahmad Shah Masood and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. \n\nAt the time of Abbas's graduation from university, the country was becoming increasingly socially and politically unrestful. To suppress the population, the communist regime of Hafizullah Amin decreed the elimination and execution of any person with influence and prominence and who fought for human and political rights of the people. In 1978, Haji Saleh Mohammad Khan and his three sons were take away in the middle of the night by the secret police and executed. Abbas barely escaped capture. The family learned of the fate of Haji Saleh and his sons 35 years later including the place of their mass burial. \n\nAbbas Noyan became the sole provider for his extended family. He started his business and ran it in Russia, U.S., Japan, and the U.A.E. After establishing himself in business, he returned to his country in 2005 and ran for parliament.\n\nAbbas Noyan is identified as progressive and reformist. He represented the Kabul province in parliament, becoming one of the most vocal critics of widespread corruption. He advocated for women's rights and elimination of violence against women.\n\nAfter his term at the national assembly, he founded the Truth and Justice political party (also known as Rights and Justice) together with Hanif Atmar, Ehsanullah Zia, Sima Samar, Mohammad Sardar Roshan, and Hamidullah Farooqi. The party successfully supported Ashraf Ghani's bid to presidency in 2014. \n\nA life-long supporter of education, he sits on the board of Marefat High School.\n\nNoyan has three sons and two daughters. He lives in Kabul with his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "32222100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32222100", "title": "Abbas Raza", "text": "Abbas Raza\n\nVice-Admiral Abbas Raza (Urdu:عباس رضا ;b. 16 May 1955), is a retired three-star rank admiral in the Pakistan Navy who served as the senior fleet commander in 2010 until retiring in 2012.\n\nAbbas Raza was born in 16 May 1955 in Lahore, Punjab in Pakistan where he secured his matriculation, and joined the Pakistan Navy in June 1973. He was directed to attend the Pakistan Naval Academy in Karachi, and passed out with communications with top of his class when he was conferred with coveted with the Sword of Honor in 1975. He was qualified as the surface officer and served in the Surface Command of the Navy.\n\nHe gained commissioned in the Naval Operations Branch as Sub-Lieutenant, and was later sent to attend and complete the staff course at the Royal Naval Staff College in Greenwich in England. He later went to attend the National Defence University (NDU) in Islamabad and graduated with MSc in Defence studies.\n\nAs Commander, he commanded the boat squadron, and held the commands of the PNS \"Badr\" and \"Tippu Sultan\" as Captain in 1990s. In 2003, Capt. Raza was posted at the Pakistan Embassy in Muscat in Oman as a defence attaché. Capt. Raza also briefly tenured at the Pakistan Embassy in Paris as an air attaché to French Air Force. Upon returning to Pakistan, Cdre. Abbas Raza was appointed to command the 9th Auxiliary Squadron, and briefly tenured as a military secretary to the office of the chief of naval staff at the Navy NHQ in Islamabad as two-star and three-star rank appointments. Rear-Admiral Raza's other appointment at the Navy NHQ also included his role as DCNS (Projects), DNCS (Operations) \nas well as being appointed as the Director-General of the Joint Warfare and Training (DG Joint Trig.) at the Joint Staff HQ in Rawalpindi.\n\nIn 2010, Vice-Admiral Raza was took over the command of the Pakistan Fleet as its senior fleet commander, and later directed to command the Karachi coast as its field commander, COMKAR, and was responsible for naval units stationed in Karachi in 2011. In 2011, V-Adm. Raza faced severe criticism from news media pundits of failing to prevent terrorist attack on naval installations, and reportedly was not investigated in this incident by the Naval Intelligence and the Navy's crime branch.\n\nIn 2011, V-Adm. Raza was among the four senior admirals who were in the race for the promotion to be promoted as a four-star admiral in the Navy, included with seniority:\n\n\nOn 6 October 2011, President Asif Ali Zardari eventually promoted Vice-Admiral Asif Sandila, the senior most admiral, to the four-star rank position while all remaining admirals decided to serve on their respected commands until their retirements were confirmed.\n\nIn 2012, Vice-Admiral Raza retired from his military service, and eventually joining the Bahria Security System, the private military company specializing in escort and security, as its Managing Director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26860166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26860166", "title": "Abdelkarim Badjadja", "text": "Abdelkarim Badjadja\n\nAbdelkrim Badjadja (born March 26, 1945 in Constantine, Algeria) is an Algerian archivist and historian. He has contributed greatly to the development of the National Archives of Algeria (Archives Nationales d'Algerie) and the preservation and dissemination of Algerian history. He published several works on the history of Algeria and the archival profession in Arabic and French.\n\nBadjadja attended the University of Constantine, Algeria where he studied history and geography. He received his license in 1972 and his DEA in 1974.\n\nBadjadja served as the Director of the Archive Department of Constantine from 1974–1991, and then Director of the National Library of Algeria from 1991–1992. He was the Director General of the National Archives of Algeria (Archives Nationales d'Algerie) from 1992–2001. He currently serves as the Consulting Archivist at the Information and Research Center, at the Presidency in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. He was also the director of the Archives de Wilaya de Constantine in Constantine, Algeria.\n\nFrom November 1986 to March 1987, he was placed under town arrest restrictions but no official reasons were ever given.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16010659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16010659", "title": "Alan Myatt", "text": "Alan Myatt\n\nAlan Myatt (born 1957) is a town crier who set two Guinness World Records. As well as being the loudest crier, recording a cry of 112.8 decibels, he also set the Guinness world record for vocal endurance, issuing a one-hundred word proclamation every 15 minutes for a period of 48 hours.\nHe is a crier to commerce, industry and heritage, and can be seen at exhibitions, promotions and trade fairs across Europe. He is also a toastmaster, master of ceremonies and themed character actor.\n\nHe is the official town crier for the City of Gloucester, for Letchworth Garden City and Hitchin in Hertfordshire, for London's Covent Garden and also for various venues in the capital including the Stables Market in Camden Town.\n\nIn July 2015 he crossed the English Channel to France in an attempt to be the first British town crier since 1066 to make an announcement on the French side of the water.\n\nMyatt is a member of the Ancient and Honourable Guild of Town Criers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1833022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1833022", "title": "Angelus of Jerusalem", "text": "Angelus of Jerusalem\n\nSaint Angelus (; 1185 – 5 May 1220) was a Catholic convert from Judaism and a professed priest of the Carmelites. He and his twin brother were converted to the faith once their mother did so while both became ordained priests and Carmelite friars. But unlike his brother he retreated into the desert to a hermitage after his ordination. But he emerged once he was instructed to go to the Italian mainland to evangelize as well as to meet with Pope Honorius III to have him approve a new rule for the Carmelites.\n\nHe was slain whilst preaching and was believed a saint after his death. The Carmelites venerated him as such until Pope Pius II beatified the slain priest during his pontificate circa 1459.\n\nHe was born in Jerusalem in 1185 to the Jewish parents Jesse and Maria. His mother later converted to Roman Catholicism both he and his twin brother John were baptised when she converted. His parents died while he was in his childhood and the Patriarch Nicodemus oversaw their education until the twins turned eighteen. He and his brother John entered the Carmelites aged eighteen at the Saint Anne convent near the Golden Gate to commence their novitiate. The two could speak Greek as well as both Latin and Hebrew.\n\nIn 1210 he was ordained to the priesthood in Jerusalem and he travelled in Palestine. Miraculous cures were attributed to him around this time and his \"acta\" stated that he sought to avoid fame and withdrew to a hermitage in the desert (in imitation of Jesus Christ) when he was becoming popular for his miracles. He remained as a hermit on Mount Carmel when he was instructed in 1218 to leave for the Italian peninsula in order to preach against the patarini as well as the Albigensians and the Bulgars. He had likewise been instructed to go to Rome to obtain from Pope Honorius III confirmation of the new and definitive rule for the order (later granted in 1226).\n\nHe set off on a Genoese ship on 1 April 1219 and stopped first in Messina before heading off to Civitavecchia before he ended up in Rome to meet with the pope. The friar preached in the Basilica of Saint John Lateran while in Rome where he met both Saint Francis of Assisi and Saint Dominic. It is said that he foretold that Francis would receive the stigmata while Francis foretold his premature death. From there he was a guest of the Basilians in Palermo where he was for over a month before preaching in Agrigento for over a month before settling in Licata. He had healed seven lepers and the ailing Archbishop of Palermo Bernardo de Castanea while in Palermo. He settled on the Sicilian island though his fame as a wonderworker caused crowds to flock to him. He also had success in converting some Jews though most Jews in Palermo came to despise him for this since he himself was once Jewish.\n\nHe wanted to convert a Cathar knight named Berenger (known also in sources as Berengarius). Tradition states that Berenger was living in incest and that the friar convinced the knight's companion to leave Berenger. Berenger became enraged and had him attacked in front of the church of Santi Filippo e Giacomo in Licata on 1 May 1220 and was struck with Berenger's sword five times. He died of his wounds within the week on 5 May and according to tradition asked for his assassin to be pardoned while urging the faithful not to avenge his death. He was buried at Santi Filippo e Giacomo.\n\nHis sepulcher at Licata became a site of pilgrimage. The Carmelites venerated him as a saint from at least 1456 and the cult received papal approval from Pope Pius II at some stage during the latter's pontificate. His remains were moved in 1486 from a wooden casket to a silver urn before being moved to a more previous urn on 5 May 1623. His relics were translated to a new church in Licata on 15 August 1662 and are now housed at Santa Maria del Carmine; the ending of a plague in the Kingdom of Naples in 1656 was attributed to his intercession. He has - since 4 May 1626 - been known as the patron saint for Palermo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39187278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39187278", "title": "Batoo Tshering", "text": "Batoo Tshering\n\n\"Goongloen Gongma\" (Lt General) Batoo Tshering, DYG, DW, DT, DK, is the current Chief Operations Officer of the Royal Bhutan Army (COO). He succeeded the outgoing chief, \"Goongloen Gongma\" (Lieutenant General) Lam Dorji on 1 November 2005.\n\nTshering is married to \"Aum\" Pema Choden, who is a graduate of Paro College of Education and they have two daughters, Dechen Yangden & Rinchen Pelden, both of whom are employed with the Royal Government of Bhutan.\nHis Daughter Rinchen Pelden is Married to Singye Namgayl Dorji and they have three children, Tseten Dradul Dorji(14), Thinley Uma Peldron(8), and Zukyi Nema(2).\n\nTshering underwent training at Indian Military Academy and got commissioned into the Royal Bhutan Army in November 1971. Thereafter, he was attached with the Indian Army and underwent Young Officers Course, Commando Course, Intelligence Staff Officers’ Course, Junior Command Course, Senior Command Course in various schools of instruction in India. He is also a graduate of the prestigious Defense Services Staff College, Wellington, Tamil Nadu.\n\nLt Gen Batoo Tshering has held various important staff and command assignments. His first staff posting was at the Army Headquarters (AHQ) as Operations and Training Officer in 1976. He commanded Wing 4 and Wing 7 in succession. He was the Commandant of Military Training Centre in 1988, Deputy Chief Operations Officer (G) in 1991 and Commander of Command Centre at Dewathang in 1997 till the completion of Operation: All Clear in 2003. He took over as the Deputy Chief Operations Officer with effect from 21 February 2005 and was appointed as the Chief Operations Officer by His Majesty King Jigme Singye Wangchuck on 1 November 2005. In addition to his responsibilities as the Chief Operations Officer, he is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Army Welfare Project.\n\nWhile on active duty Tshering survived an ambush from armed insurgents near Nganglam on Oct 31, 1998, during which his car was riddled with bullet shots and he was injured.\n\nFor his dedicated and distinguished service to the \"Tsa-Wa-Sum\" (King, Country and People), he was awarded \"Druk Yugyel\" (DYG), \"Drakpoi Wangyel\" (DW), \"Drakpoi Thugsey\" (DT) and \"Drakpoi Khorlo\" (DK) medals by His Majesty King Jigme Singye Wangchuck. He was also awarded the \"Drakpoi Rinchen Tsugtor\" (DRT) medal by His Majesty the King on 21 February 2013.\n"}
{"id": "41787092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41787092", "title": "Benoni Urey", "text": "Benoni Urey\n\nBenoni W. Urey (born June 22, 1957) is an Americo-Liberian businessman and politician, who was formerly the Liberian Commissioner of Maritime Affairs. In 2014 \"The Economist\" reported that Urey was Liberia's wealthiest man.\n\nUrey was born on June 22, 1957 at his family home in Careysburg, Montserrado County, Liberia. His father was married to three women, his mother, Emma Boyce Urey, Martha Urey and Kpannah Urey. Two of his mothers were Kpelle and one was Americo-Liberian. His father, Daniel Urey, was an Americo-Liberian from Careysburg. Urey’s father met two of his wives in Caresyburg and one in Bong County. Two of Urey's mothers were dominantly native women who never spoke English, while the other was a school teacher. His father was subsistence farmer. This family lived in Careysburg throughout their lives.\n\nBenoni is the eighth of eleven children. He attended kindergarten and first grade at Careysburg Public School. With the aid of a scholarship from the U.S. government through the Voice of America relay station, Urey attended the American Cooperative School (A.C.S), a private American school in Monrovia, from first grade until his graduation from high school in 1976. While attending A.C.S, he participated in almost every varsity sport, including basketball. His love for basketball led him and some friends to form The Uhuru Kings and Queens, a social and sports club that eventually became a first division member of Liberia Basketball Federation. Uhuru Kings still is a member of the Liberian Basketball Federation and has participated in numerous national championships over the years.\n\nAfter high school, Urey attended Cuttington University, in Bong County. He earned a Bachelor of Science Degree in General Science with emphasis in chemistry in 1980. At Cuttington University, Urey served as the President of The Mason Social and Athletic Club, and in his last year, President of the Senior class. Later in 2010, Urey was awarded the Doctor of Humane Letters (L.H.D.) \"Honoris Causa\" from Cuttington University.\n\nAfter university, Urey moved to Monrovia and began to work for the government, at the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC). He worked as a Training Officer until he was awarded a scholarship to pursue a M.A. in Public Finance and Human Resource Development and a M.Sc in Planning from the University of Southern California. He graduated from USC in 1986.\n\nUpon his return to Liberia in 1986, Benoni was appointed Deputy Director General for Planning and Training of the Liberia Electricity Corporation Training Center under the Presidency of the late President Samuel K. Doe. He worked at the corporation until the war broke out.\n\nIn 1989, when the Liberian Civil War broke out, Urey left Liberia and traveled to Sierra Leone and lived there for eight months and later moved to the Ivory Coast. While there, he started to work at African Development Bank as a consultant. In 1994, Urey returned to Bong County, Liberia and started to work as the Managing Director at Liberia Rubber Development Corporation.\n\nUnder the Interim Government of Liberia, chaired by Wilton Sankawulo, in 1995, Urey was appointed President of Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank of Liberia.\n\nIn 1996, the Council of State appointed Urey as Commissioner of Maritime Affairs. When Charles Taylor came to power after winning elections in 1997, Urey was reappointed to his position as Commissioner of Maritime. He served as Commissioner until 2003, when Taylor resigned from office.\n\nIn 2000 Urey was sanctioned by the United Nations for his alleged role in arms procurement (starting in summer of 2002) and also for his alleged “ongoing ties with Charles Taylor”. Urey breached an earlier UN travel ban in August 2001. His name was added to the US Treasury Department's Specially Designated Nationals list, prohibiting him from conducting business with US companies, citizens and residents, and blocking all US based assets. A 2005 report from the Coalition for International Justice reported that Urey helped Taylor \"siphon off\" funds from a shipping firm to pay for arms and was the primary contact between Taylor and Viktor Bout. The United Nations Panel of Experts concluded in their November 2013 report that \"evidence indicates, however, that in approving the funds Urey was acting on the orders of Taylor.\" The Liberian Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) recommended in its final report that Urey be prosecuted for the commission of economic crimes during the civil war and barred from holding public office for 30 years. During the TRC hearings, Urey was identified by witness James Paul as operating the Liberian Rubber Company and exporting \"hundred of thousands of tons of rubber\", the proceeds of which were never accounted for.\n\nUrey has denied any involvement in the violence of the Liberian and Sierra Leone civil conflicts, maintaining that as a civilian being appointed to head the Maritime Commission, he made no war-related decisions. An investigation by the United Nations Panel of Experts on Liberia's political situation in 2013 concluded that it “did not have information suggesting that Urey was involved in activities that would destabilize Liberia and the subregion”. The Panel also stated that “Urey’s business activities, and the profits gained from them, would appear to suggest that civil conflict in Liberia would have a significant negative financial impact on him”. In December 2013, Urey was de-listed from the United Nations Sanction Lists. In November 2015 the US Treasury Department lifted sanctions against a number of Liberians, including Urey. A Liberian newspaper reportedly that Urey was subsequently denied a US entry visa in 2016, a claim which was denied by the All Liberian Party.\n\nIn 2009, Urey was elected Mayor of Careysburg City by the City Council. President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf endorsed the appointment by subsequently appointing him Mayor. He served as Mayor until 2012. President Sirleaf relieved Urey of this post when it became evident that he would not support her in re-election bid in 2011, instead, supporting the Congress for Democratic Change.\n\nUrey currently owns Lonestar Communication Corporation, Liberia's largest mobile phone service provider which is partnered with the MTN Group, through his PLC Investments group. Lonestar is one of the largest taxpayers in Liberia. Urey has served as the Chairman of the Board since the establishment of the corporation.\n\nUrey established an agricultural farm and resort in Careysburg City, Wulki Farms I and Farmers Paradise Resort, developed on land owned by his father, Daniel Webster Urey IV. Benoni’s wife, Mai Urey, is the Managing Director of Wulki Farms and Farmers Paradise. The property includes commercial production of poultry and eggs, fish and fresh produce and guest accommodation.\n\nUrey owns the sixth largest rubber plantation, Wulki Farms II, located in Konola, Margibi County.\n\nOwned solely by Urey, Love Media Incorporated was established in 2003 and comprises radio and television stations and a newspaper. These stations are based in Monrovia and Careysburg City. Shiata FM, another station owned by Urey, was established in 2005 and is based in Careysburg City. During the 2011 election campaign, Love Radio and TV stations were set on fire. Urey accused the Government of being involved in the burning of his stations because he was a financial supporter of the opposition party, Congress for Democratic Change.\n\nU-Housing is a real estate development company owned by Urey. He began developing real estate in 1994 when he returned to Liberia. U-Housing has acquired and developed a wide range of commercial and residential properties throughout the country.\n\nIn December 2013 Urey declared his desire to run for the Presidency of Liberia in 2017, with initial speculation in Liberian media that he would do so with the Congress for Democratic Change party headed by former footballer George Weah. Urey subsequently launched the All Liberian Party in November 2015 at the Antoinette Tubman Stadium in Monrovia.\n\nUrey married to Mai Bright Urey on May 26, 1986. They have four daughters: Danielle Ashlee Urey, Telia Urey, Jebbeh Naomi Urey and Benita Whitney Urey. He is a Christian. He was born and raised Presbyterian and serves as the sexton at the First Presbyterian Church of Careysburg. Urey is fluent in English and his native dialect, Kpelle. Urey also serves as “Deputy District Grand Master” of the Grand Lodge of the Freemasonry Republic of Liberia and Honorable Grand Patron of the Order of the Eastern Star of Liberia.\n"}
{"id": "39973630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39973630", "title": "Bill Chalker", "text": "Bill Chalker\n\nBill Chalker is an Australian author and UFO researcher. \nHe is a contributing editor for the \"International UFO Reporter\" and has been the Australian representative for the Aerial Phenomena Research Organisation (1978 to 1986) and a New South Wales state representative for the Mutual UFO Network (1976 to 1993).\n\nChalker was born in Grafton, New South Wales in 1952. He studied at the University of New England, receiving a degree in chemistry and mathematics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1244900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244900", "title": "Billy Tauzin III", "text": "Billy Tauzin III\n\nWilbert Joseph \"Billy\" Tauzin III was born December 1, 1973 in Thibodaux, Louisiana, the son of Congressman Billy Tauzin and Gayle Clement Tauzin. After graduating from Bishop O'Connell High School in Arlington, VA, as a National Honor Society Student and 3 sport lettermen (football, wrestling and lacrosse), Tauzin accepted an appointment to the United States Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut.\n\nAfter resigning from the Coast Guard Academy his junior year, Tauzin finished his bachelor's degree in marketing at Louisiana State University in 1996. He worked for Bell Atlantic Wireless in Virginia and later BellSouth in Metairie, Louisiana.\n\nIn a decision that provoked internal dissension in the Louisiana Republican Party, the 30-year-old Tauzin was endorsed by the Republican Party executive committee as its candidate to fill the open seat caused by his father's 2004 retirement from the United States House of Representatives due to his battle with intestinal cancer.\n\nTauzin bested a crowded field in the primary and faced Democratic challenger Charlie Melancon, a long-time lobbyist for the sugar cane industry, in the runoff. The hotly contested race ended with both candidates receiving 50% but Melancon edging Tauzin by over 300 votes out of over 100,000 votes cast.\n\nTauzin finished his Masters of Business Administration (MBA) from Nicholls State University in 2006 and currently works for AT&T (merged with BellSouth) as a Sr. Sourcing Manager. Tauzin is also a coach for the Central Catholic Marianist High School Lacrosse team, which competes in Texas High School Lacrosse League (THSLL). He also referees for the local games in the area. In 2010 Tauzin was head coach of the French national lacrosse team at the Lacrosse World Games in Manchester.\n"}
{"id": "57846900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57846900", "title": "Chandan Biswas", "text": "Chandan Biswas\n\nChandan Biswas (born 5 November 1985) is a Bengali Adventure sports personnel and Travel Writer.\n\nBiswas started adventure sports since 2010. He involves with mountaineering, rock climbing and mountain cycling also. He was the first who completed the Solo Trans-Himalaya Cycling Expedition. He took part in February 2017 and successfully finished in July 2017. In this journey Biswas cycled 6,249 km through the countries of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and India. In 2016 he led Intra-Country Cycling and Running Expedition team from Kolkata to Dhaka to pay tribute to the martyrs of the Language Movement ahead of the International Mother Language Day. His upcoming Solo Narmada Walk adventure, throughout the Narmada river will cover 1300 km including 4 states of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "85875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85875", "title": "Cormac mac Airt", "text": "Cormac mac Airt\n\nCormac mac Airt (son of Art), also known as Cormac ua Cuinn (grandson of Conn) or Cormac Ulfada (long beard), was, according to medieval Irish legend and historical tradition, a High King of Ireland. He is probably the most famous of the ancient High Kings, and may have been an authentic historical figure, although many legends have attached themselves to him, and his reign is variously dated as early as the 2nd century and as late as the 4th. He is said to have ruled from Tara, the seat of the High Kings of Ireland, for forty years, and under his rule Tara flourished, he is credited for building many of monuments at the Hill of Tara such as the Banqueting Hall, Cormac's house and Grainne's Enclosure, named after his daughter, Gráinne. He was famous for his wise, true, and generous judgments. In the Annals of Clonmacnoise, translated in 1627, he is described as:\nThe hero Fionn mac Cumhaill is supposed to have lived in Cormac's time, and most of the stories of the Fenian Cycle are set during his reign.\n\nCormac's father was the former High King Art mac Cuinn. His mother was Achtan, daughter of Olc Acha, a smith (or druid) from Connacht. Cormac had a younger brother, Alastir. \n\nAccording to the saga \"The Battle of Mag Mucrama\", Olc gave Art hospitality the night before the Battle of Maigh Mucruimhe. It had been prophesied that a great dignity would come from Olc's line, so he offered the High King his daughter to sleep with that night, and Cormac was conceived (Geoffrey Keating says that Achtan was Art's official mistress, to whom he had given a dowry of cattle).\n\nThe story is told that Achtan had a vision as she slept next to Art. She saw herself with her head cut off and a great tree growing out of her neck. Its branches spread all over Ireland, until the sea rose and overwhelmed it. Another tree grew from the roots of the first, but the wind blew it down. At that she woke up and told Art what she had seen. Art explained that the head of every woman is her husband, and that she would lose her husband in battle the next day. The first tree was their son, who would be king over all Ireland, and the sea that overwhelmed it was a fish-bone that he would die choking on. The second tree was his son, Cairbre Lifechair, who would be king after him, and the wind that blew him down was a battle against the \"fianna\", in which he would fall. The following day Art was defeated and killed by his nephew Lugaid mac Con, who became the new High King.\n\nCormac was carried off in infancy by a she-wolf and reared with her cubs in the caves of Kesh (Keash, Co Sligo), but a hunter found him and brought him back to his mother. Achtan then took him to Fiachrae Cassán, who had been Art's foster-father. On the way they were attacked by wolves, but wild horses protected them.\n\nAt the age of thirty, armed with his father's sword, Cormac came to Tara, where he met a steward consoling a weeping woman. The steward explained that the High King had confiscated her sheep because they had cropped the queen's woad-garden. Cormac declared, \"More fitting would be one shearing for another,\" because both the woad and the sheep's fleeces would grow again. When Lugaid heard this, he conceded that Cormac's judgement was superior to his and abdicated the throne. Other traditions say that Cormac drove Lugaid out by force, or that he left Tara because his druids had prophesied he would not live another six months if he stayed. In all versions he went to his kin in Munster, where the poet Ferches mac Commain killed him with a spear as he stood with his back to a standing stone.\n\nBut Cormac was unable to claim the High Kingship, as the king of the Ulaid, Fergus Dubdétach, drove him into Connacht, and took the throne himself. He turned to Tadg mac Céin, a local nobleman whose father had been killed by Fergus, promising him as much land on the plain of Brega as he could drive his chariot round in a day if he would help him claim the throne. Tadg advised him to recruit his grandfather's brother Lugaid Láma. Cormac sought him out, and when he found him lying in a hunting-booth, wounded him in the back with a spear. Lugaid revealed that it had been he who had killed Cormac's father in the Battle of Maigh Mucruimhe, and Cormac demanded, as \"éraic\" for Art's life, that Lugaid give him Fergus' head.\n\nHaving recruited Tadg and Lugaid, Cormac marched against Fergus, and The Battle of Crinna began. Tadg led the battle, keeping Cormac out of the action at the rear. Lugaid took the head of Fergus' brother, Fergus Foltlebair, and brought it to Cormac's attendant, who told him this was not the head of the king of Ulster. He then took the head of Fergus's other brother, Fergus Caisfhiachlach, but again the attendant told him it was the wrong head. Finally he killed Fergus Dubdétach himself, and when the attendant confirmed he'd got the right man, Lugaid killed him and collapsed from exhaustion and loss of blood.\n\nTadg routed Fergus's army, and ordered his charioteer to make a circuit of the plain of Brega to include Tara itself. He was severely wounded, and fainted during the circuit. When he came to, he asked the charioteer if he had driven around Tara yet. When the charioteer answered no, Tadg killed him, but before he could complete the circuit himself, Cormac came upon him and ordered physicians to treat his wounds - treatment which took a whole year. Cormac took the throne, and Tadg ruled large tracts of land in the northern half of Ireland.\n\nAccording to the saga \"The Melody of the House of Buchet\", Cormac married Eithne Táebfada, daughter of Cathaír Mór and foster-daughter of Buchet, a wealthy cattle-lord from Leinster whose hospitality was so exploited that he was reduced to poverty. However, in other traditions Eithne is the wife of Cormac's grandfather Conn Cétchathach. Keating says the foster-daughter of Buchet that Cormac married was another Eithne, Eithne Ollamda, daughter of Dúnlaing, king of Leinster. Also according to Keating, Cormac took a second wife, Ciarnait, daughter of the king of the Cruthin, but Eithne, out of jealousy of her beauty, forced her to grind nine measures of grain every day. Cormac freed her from this labour by having a watermill built.\n\nCormac is credited with three sons, Dáire, Cellach and Cairbre Lifechair, and ten daughters. Two of his daughters, Gráinne and Aillbe, married the hero Fionn mac Cumhaill. In the well-known story \"The Pursuit of Diarmuid and Gráinne\", Gráinne was betrothed to Fionn, but instead ran off with a young warrior of the \"fianna\", Diarmuid Ua Duibhne. Diarmuid and Fionn were eventually reconciled, but Fionn later contrived Diarmuid's death during a boar hunt, but was shamed by his son Oisín into making amends to Gráinne. Fionn and Gráinne were married, and Gráinne persuaded her sons not to make war against Fionn.\n\nCormac's reign is recorded in some detail in the Irish annals. He fought many battles, subduing the Ulaid and Connacht and leading a lengthy campaign against Munster. In the fourteenth year of his reign he is said to have sailed to Britain and made conquests there. In the fifteenth, thirty maidens were slaughtered in Tara by Dúnlaing, king of Leinster, for which Cormac had twelve Leinster princes put to death. In other texts he is said to have been temporarily deposed twice by the Ulaid, and to have once gone missing for four months. He is also said to have compiled the Psalter of Tara, a book containing the chronicles of Irish history, the laws concerning the rents and dues kings were to receive from their subjects, and records of the boundaries of Ireland.\n\nAlthough he is usually remembered as a wise and just ruler, one story presents him in a less flattering light. Having distributed all the cattle he had received as tribute from the provinces, Cormac found himself without any cattle to provision his own household after a plague struck his herds. A steward persuaded him to treat Munster as two provinces, the southern of which had never paid tax. He sent messengers to demand payment, but Fiachu Muillethan, the king of southern Munster, refused, and Cormac prepared for war. His own druids, who had never advised him badly, foresaw disaster, but he ignored them, preferring to listen to five druids from the \"sidhe\" supplied by his fairy lover, Báirinn.\n\nCormac marched to Munster and made camp on the hill of Druim Dámhgaire (Knocklong, County Limerick). His new druids' magic made the camp impregnable and his warriors unbeatable, dried up all sources of water used by the Munstermen, and nearly drove Fiacha to submission. But Fiacha in desperation turned to the powerful Munster druid Mug Ruith for aid, and his magic was too strong even for Cormac's fairy druids. He restored the water and conjured up magical hounds who destroyed the fairy druids. His breath created storms and turned men to stone. Cormac was driven out of Munster and compelled to seek terms.\n\nIn the tale \"His Three Calls to Cormac\" (IV.11) the Irish King is tempted by the sea-god Manannan mac Lir with treasure, specifically a \"shining branch having nine apples of red gold,\" in exchange for his family. Cormac is led into the Otherworld and taught a harsh lesson by Manannán, but in the end his wife and children are restored to him. Also, Manannán rewards him with a wonderful gold cup which breaks if three lies are spoken over it and is made whole again if three truths are spoken. Cormac used this cup during his kingship to distinguish falsehood from truth. When Cormac died, the cup vanished, just as Manannan had predicted it would.\n\nThe 8th-century text \"The Expulsion of the Déisi\" describes enmity between Cormac and the group known as the Déisi, descendants of Cormac's great grandfather Fedlimid Rechtmar who had been his retainers. Cormac's son Cellach (or Conn) abducts Forach, the daughter of a Déisi leader. Her uncle Óengus Gaíbúaibthech comes to rescue her, but Cellach refuses to release her. Óengus runs Cellach through with his \"dread spear\", which has three chains attached to it; these chains wound one of Cormac's advisers and blind Cormac in one eye. Cormac fights seven battles against the Déisi, and expels them from their lands. After a period of wandering, they settled in Munster. Cormac, having lost an eye, moves into the Tech Cletig on the hill of Achall, as it was against the law for a disfigured king to sit in Tara. His duties as king are taken on by his son Cairbre Lifechair.\n\nAfter ruling for forty years Cormac choked to death on a salmon bone. Some versions blame this on a curse laid by a druid because Cormac had converted to Christianity. Some versions of the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" synchronise his reign with that of the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius (161–180). Keating dates his reign to 204–244; the \"Annals of the Four Masters\" to 226–266. An entry in the \"Annals of Ulster\" dates his death as late as 366. He was succeeded by Eochaid Gonnat.\n"}
{"id": "27155869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155869", "title": "Cundi (Buddhism)", "text": "Cundi (Buddhism)\n\nWhile Cundi is less well known in Tibetan Buddhism, she is revered in Tangmi or East Asian esoteric Buddhism. In China, she is known as \"Zhǔntí Púsà\" (, \"Cundi Bodhisattva\") or \"Zhǔntí Fómǔ\" (, \"Cundi Buddha-Mother\"), \"Chunje\" in Korean, while in Japan she is known as .\n\nIn late imperial China, early traditions of Tangmi were still thriving in Buddhist communities. Robert Gimello has also observed that in these communities, the esoteric practices of Cundi were extremely popular among both the populace and the elite.\n\nThe first textual source of Cundi and the Cundī Dhāraṇī is the ', a sūtra centered around the bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara that introduced the popular mantra '. This text is first dated to around the late 4th century CE to the early 5th century CE. Cundi and the Cundī Dhāraṇī are also featured in the Cundī Dhāraṇī Sūtra, which was translated three times from Sanskrit to Chinese in the late 7th century and early 8th century by the Indian esoteric masters Divākara (685 CE), Vajrabodhi (723 CE), and Amoghavajra (8th century).\n\nAccording to the \"\", the dhāraṇī associated with Cundī is the following:\nIn the sūtra, the Buddha speaks extensively about the various effects and benefits of reciting the Cundī dhāraṇī. Many of the effects are purifying and uplifting in nature. For example, after pronouncing the dhāraṇī, the Buddha then says:\n\nThe dhāraṇī is also closely associated with buddhahood and complete enlightenment (Skt. \"\"). At the end of the sūtra, the Buddha closes the teaching by saying:\nCundi is depicted with eighteen arms, each wielding implements that symbolize upaya. Her eighteen arms also represent the eighteen merits of attaining Buddhahood as described in an appendix to the \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33143772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33143772", "title": "Dugald Semple", "text": "Dugald Semple\n\nDugald Semple (1884–1964), was a Scottish advocate of \"simple living\", a naturalist, prolific author, and fruitarian. He is sometimes credited with cofounding the vegan movement in 1944 (with Dorothy and Donald Watson and other friends) without using the term 'vegan'. Semple's mother hailed from a farm near Beith, and his father worked as a tailor. He was born in Johnstone near Paisley, Scotland. Cathie Amos was his wife, who predeceased him, dying of heart failure in 1941, Dugald died in Fairlie. They had no children, although Cathie had a son, Ian, who was killed in World War I.\n\nDugald won a bursary to Paisley Grammar School and served an apprenticeship as an engineering draughtsman. In 1907 he moved into a tent, and later an old omnibus located on Linwood Moss. In 1916 he was a conscientious objector and thus exempted from military service on condition that he continued lecturing on food economy.\nDugald Semple, vegan and 'Scottish Apostle of the simple life,' farmed at Davie's o'the Mill near Beith in North Ayrshire from the 1930s until around 1950, when it was a smallholding. Dugald was a hippy before hippies officially existed and started living in an army tent from 1907. He was sometimes known as the 'Hut Man' from living in his 'hut on wheels' or caravan and therefore probably did not live in the house. He later lived in Fairlie. Semple preached self-responsibility and care for others. Curiously for a vegetarian he appears in a photograph of Davie's o'the Mill to be keeping chickens. He regularly appeared on radio programmes, including \"Out with Romany\" and \"Hutman of the BBC\". He lived with his wife Cathie in London for two years when he was the secretary of the Vegetarian Society.\n\nA regular visitor to Ailsa Craig, he was known locally as the 'Bird Man' and was an enthusiast for outdoor living, publishing a book entitled \"A Free Man's Philosophy\". He welcomed walkers and cyclists who often camped on his land.\n\nIn 1963 Dugald detailed his journey towards Vegetarianism:\n\n\"I began rather drastically over 50 years ago [~1910] by cutting out not only all meat or flesh foods, but milk, eggs, butter, tea and coffee. Cheese I have never eaten; indeed I hate the very smell of this decayed milk. Next, I adopted a diet of nuts, fruit, cereals and vegetables. On this Edenic fare I lived for some ten years, and found that my health and strength were greatly improved. […] While I was in London (during World War I), I found it necessary to add some dairy products to my meals, but on returning to Scotland I gradually eliminated these again.\"\n\nIn later life he lived in a modern cottage and even owned a car.\n\nThe Fruitarian Society was plagued with disputes over the definition of Fruitarianism from as early as 1907. The Scottish Vegetarian Society featured an article in their 1907 journal entitled \"Fruitarianism\" by Dugald Semple in which he wrote:\n\n\"\"By fruitarianism is meant a dietary consisting chiefly of nuts and fruits. Cooked cereals and vegetables are not necessarily excluded, although the exclusion of all cooked foods, should means and knowledge permit, will lead to better results. For this dietary it will be noticed that not only is flesh and meat omitted, but also the animal products milk and eggs. The use of these products by vegetarians has long been one of the chief objections to vegetarianism, especially in medical circles\".\"\n\nDugald stated, to make the point about 'Lacto-Vegetarianism' stated that he had never tasted cheese, and therefore it could not be considered as an essential 'binding agent' for body and soul!\n\nIn 1912, Dugald stated that he did not believe that milk and eggs were natural foods for man: \"Eggs were meant to produce chickens and not omelettes; and cow's milk is a perfect food for a calf, but most assuredly not for a grown-up human being.\"\n\nIn his 1915 book, \"Joys of the Simple Life\", he wrote an essay entitled 'Alone with Nature', stating that \"I left off eating flesh-meat and drinking tea ten years ago, and for over eight years have rarely used milk, eggs, salt, sugar, dairy butter, white bread, or condiments of any kind. My health has improved considerably and I have never regretted the change.\"\n\nIn 1938 Dugald was the President of the Scottish Vegetarian Society (SVS) and Vice-President of the Vegetarian Society. In 1944 Dugald is recorded as the chairman of the Vegan Society and vice-president of the International Vegetarian Union. In 1953 he was Honorary President of the Scottish Vegetarian Society. In 1954, Dugald was still president of the SVS, one of several Vice-Presidents of IVU.\n\nThe Victoria Advocate newspaper of Texas reported that he lectured on his beliefs and way of life in the USA, Canada, and America.\n\nFrom the August 1910 issue of the \"Vegetarian Messenger\" \n\"Mr. Dugald Semple, the Scottish apostle of the Simple Life, is arranging lecturing tours for the coming winter. He is prepared to give lectures for a modest fee, and we are sure that his services would be appreciated by vegetarian and allied societies. His address is Wheelhouse, Bridge of Weir, Scotland.\" The address appears to refer to his horse drawn caravan that can be seen in the photograph of Davie's o'the Mill.\n\n\nDugald was a delegate from Great Britain to the 1938 10th World Vegetarian Congress held in Norway, attending as President of the Scottish Vegetarian Society and Vice-President of The Vegetarian Society. He delivered a speech on \"Vegetarianism and Peace –\n\"\" Mr.Semple said that the question of peace was one of the most important problems with which the various countries of the world were concerned at the present time, and people were naturally interested in what we, as vegetarians, had to offer in place of war and preparations for war. The situation throughout Europe was tragic because war was no longer confined to armed forces but meant the slaughter of innocent women and children. The relation between food and war may come as a surprise to many people, but Socrates pointed out the relationship many years ago. When Plato first outlined the ideal life for his country he suggested that it might be necessary to introduce flesh-foods into his community. Socrates replied by saying that when you introduce flesh-foods it means that you are not going to have sufficient land to grow food and to raise cattle at the same time, and then you will go to your neighbour's territory and cut a slice off his land, and he will object, and then you will go to war with each other. That was the lesson we saw in the last great war and we observe today that many nations which are not self-supporting have a tendency to quarrel with their neighbours.\n\nIn Great Britain, before the war, there was only 7.6% of the population living on the land, as against 20% in Belgium, 25% in Holland and 30% in Germany. Today we have only 4.6% of the population in Britain living on the land. It means that the more we get away from nature and congregate people in towns and cities, there is more crime, disease and war. We cannot get away from nature without suffering thereby. We have got to live closer to the laws of our being. We must have a healthy body, but that is not enough. We are suffering today from an unbalanced proportion of activities – we seem to know how to do everything, and yet we do not know how to walk properly. We can link up the world by means of electricity, but we cannot link it up with love and human sympathy. Our attitude towards animals must be completely changed. We must cease to refer to them as \"dumb\" animals and \"livestock.\" We must remember that they are our co-partners in civilisation.\n\nVegetarianism is not merely a matter of food reform – it is a philosophy of life, and war will only cease when we cease to live as beasts of prey. So long as we prepare for war we shall get war. We must not only study Darwin but also Kropotkin. Those animals which are carnivorous are becoming less and the vegetarian animals are increasing. Vegetarianism is the first great step. The killing of human beings is akin to the killing of animals and so the exploiting of animal life leads to the selfish exploitation of human beings.\"\"\n\nDugald quoted Robert Burns, appealing for a more widespread appreciation of the real values in life – more sunshine for the body, more love for the soul, peace for every living creature the world over.\n\nIn 1953, at the 15th World Vegetarian Congress held in India, Dugald stated:\n\"What a tragedy it would be if Mother India was to become estranged from her sympathy with the rights of animals, which although it may have been carried to extremes, nevertheless has been a noble example to the flesh-eating and vivisecting nations of the West.\nYes, let us do our utmost to save India from the soulless materialism of imperialistic nations. Let us show that war and disease are the result of disobedience to spiritual and natural law. That if we harden our hearts against the everyday cruelty off flesh-eating and blood sports, we cannot wonder that the whole; so-called civilised world is preparing for another world catastrophe.\nEast and West must meet if we are to hasten the coming of the New JerusaIem. We go forth to show that science is an affair of the heart as well as the head. That the poor Indian need not live on such a meagre diet, and that we must realise that without love the people perish. The basic error, as Maitra, editor of the Indian journal, once told me, \"You people live beside yourself, we live from ourselves. It is only more life in the soul that can unite all people.\"\"\n\nIn 1955, at the World Vegetarian Congress in Paris, Dugald Semple was listed as a speaker.\n\nMorris Krok, born in Johannesburg, South Africa and whilst seeking solutions for his health problems was influenced by natural healing writers of the 20th century such as Dugald Semple, Vincent Priessnitz, Louis Kuhne, etc.\n\nCivilian rationing began at the end of World War I, on 1 January 1918, with sugar, then meat, butter, and margarine. The Government of the day consulted Dugald and a colleague to educate people concerning how to ration available produce and other food and to propose acceptable substitutes for meat, which had become familiar in their diets.\n\nDugald organised a Scottish 'No Stipend League' against the Church of Scotland's practice of levying a tithe on landowners for the minister's stipend. He was particularly offended because the levy applied to landowners regardless of their faith.\n\nIn 1953 Dugald wrote, 'Most people do not die, they kill themselves with their knives and forks.'\n\nDugald Semple died in a nursing home in Fairlie, North Ayrshire aged 79; the cause of his death was not disclosed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154150", "title": "Edvard Kardelj", "text": "Edvard Kardelj\n\nEdvard Kardelj (; 27 January 1910 – 10 February 1979), also known under the pseudonyms Bevc, Sperans and Krištof, was a Yugoslav journalist from Ljubljana, Slovenia, and one of the leading members of the illegal Communist Party of Slovenia before World War II. During the war he was one of the leaders of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People and a Slovene Partisan, and after the war a federal political leader in socialist Yugoslavia who led the Yugoslav delegation that negotiated peace talks with Italy over the border dispute in the Julian March. He is considered the main creator of the Yugoslav system of workers' self-management. He was an economist and a full member of both the Slovene Academy of Sciences and Arts and Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. \n\nKardelj was born in Ljubljana. At the age of 16 he joined the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, where he was drafted under the influence of the Slovenian journalist Vlado Kozak. He studied to become a teacher but never worked as one. In 1930, he was arrested in Belgrade and convicted of being a member of the illegal Communist Party. He was released in 1932 and returned to Ljubljana, where he became one of the leaders of the Slovenian section of the party after most of its former members had either left the party or perished in Joseph Stalin's purges. \n\nIn 1935, he went to Moscow to work for the Comintern. He was part of a group that survived Stalin's purge of the Yugoslav Communist leadership. Following Stalin's appointment of Josip Broz Tito as party leader, Kardelj became a leading member of the Party. The new leadership, centered around Tito, Aleksandar Ranković and Kardelj, returned to Yugoslavia in 1937 and launched a new party policy, calling for a common antifascist platform of all Yugoslav left-wing forces and for a federalization of Yugoslavia. The same year, an autonomous Communist Party of Slovenia was formed, with Kardelj as one of its leaders, together with Franc Leskošek () and Boris Kidrič.\n\nOn 15 August 1939, Kardelj married Pepca Kardelj (), sister of the (later) People's Hero and communist functionary Ivan Maček () (a.k.a. Matija).\n\nAfter the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, he became one of the leaders of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People. In summer and autumn 1941, he helped to set up the armed resistance in Slovenia which fought against the occupying forces till May 1945, jointly with Tito's Partisans in what became known as the People's Liberation War of Yugoslavia.\n\nAfter 1945, he rose to the highest positions in the Yugoslav government and moved into a luxury house in the Tacen neighborhood of Ljubljana that was confiscated from its previous owner, the industrialist Ivan Seunig. The house had been built in 1940 by the architect Bojan Stupica (1910–1970) and was initially occupied by the communist politician Boris Kraigher.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1947, Kardelj led the Yugoslav delegation that negotiated peace talks with Italy over the border dispute in the Julian March. After the Tito-Stalin split in 1948, he helped, with Milovan Đilas and Vladimir Bakarić, to devise a new economic policy in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, known as workers' self-management. In the 1950s, especially after Djilas's removal, he rose to become the main theorist of Titoism and Yugoslav workers' self-management.\n\nKardelj was shot and wounded in 1959 by Jovan Veselinov (). Although the official police investigation concluded that Veselinov had been shooting at a wild boar and Kardelj was struck by a ricochet from a rock, it was suggested at the time that the assassination attempt was orchestrated by his political rival Aleksandar Ranković or Ranković's, ally Slobodan Penezić.\n\nKardelj's role diminished in the 1960s, for reasons that have yet to become clear. He again rose to prominence after 1973, when Tito removed the Croatian, Serbian and Slovenian reformist Communist leaderships, and restored a more orthodox party line. The following year he was one of the main authors of the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution which decentralized decision-making in the country, leaving the single republics under the leadership of their respective political leaderships.\n\nKardelj died of colon cancer in Ljubljana on 10 February 1979.\n\nDuring his lifetime, he was given several honors. He was appointed a member of the Slovene Academy of Sciences and Arts and was officially honored as a People's Hero of Yugoslavia. Apart from many streets, the entire coastal town of Ploče in southern Croatia was renamed \"Kardeljevo\" in his honour in 1950-54 and again in 1980-90. Immediately after his death, the University of Ljubljana changed its name to \"Edvard Kardelj University of Ljubljana\" ().\n\nAfter the collapse of Yugoslavia, most of these were restored to their previous names, but in Slovenia, there are still some street and square names that bear his name, most notably the main town square in Nova Gorica.\n\nEdvard Kardelj was the father of the poet Borut Kardelj (), who committed suicide in 1971. His wife Pepca Kardelj died of a heart attack in 1990 but was widely rumored to have committed suicide. His grandson is Igor Šoltes, a lawyer and politician.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5377292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5377292", "title": "Eli Dingle", "text": "Eli Dingle\n\nElijah \"Eli\" Dingle is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Emmerdale\", played by Joseph Gilgun. He first appeared on screen in the episode which aired on 13 July 2006 and made his last appearance on 30 April 2010. He was the younger brother of Marlon Dingle.\n\nEli was a penniless drifter, just released from prison, now working as a builder turned up unannounced on his uncle Zak Dingle's doorstep and was told he was unwelcome. No one was pleased to see Eli, not even his older brother Marlon. It was soon clear Eli had gotten them into plenty of mischief in the past. Eli then witnessed the terrifying King's River showhome collapse which killed several villagers. Eli helped in the rescue and later defended his cousin Sam Dingle and his terminally ill wife Alice against Cain Dingle. Zak agreed to let Eli stay, but he soon got into trouble when Marlon emotionally blackmailed him into obtaining the morphine Sam used in the assisted suicide of Alice Dingle. Eli was disowned when Zak found out he had provided the morphine. He returned when Sam found him living rough in the woods on the run from some vicious drug dealers. After the men attacked Marlon trying to discover his whereabouts, Eli came up with a plan to frame them for armed robbery at the post office. His scheme worked and Zak accepted Eli back into the family.\n\nEli had several negative encounters with the law and the other villagers, including being wrongly arrested for Tom King's murder after unknowingly stealing the murder weapon from Home Farm. There was some flirtation with Kelly Windsor and after aborting Jimmy King's baby, Kelly ended up drunkenly kissing Eli. This was caught on film by Debbie Dingle who used it to blackmail Kelly. After Jimmy dumped Kelly at the altar, Eli helped her leave town by stealing Debbie's car. Eli later began an on/off relationship with his cousin Debbie after agreeing to help her with some money-making schemes, including pretending to be Scott Windsor in order for her to obtain a loan to buy his garage business.\n\nWhen a local bookmaker refused to pay out, Marlon decided to rob the bookies in revenge. Eli initially tried to talk him out of it, but eventually helped plan the robbery. Marlon was shocked to discover Eli had brought a gun and he pulled out of the plan. Worried, Marlon later intervened to stop Eli, but the gun went off accidentally and Marlon was shot in the chest. Marlon recovered, but was angry with Eli. When a story about him being a hero appeared, Marlon was rewarded for his supposed bravery with enough money to buy himself and Donna a house, Eli was jealous and began to blackmail his brother. Zak eventually found out what was going on and physically attacked Eli, calling him a \"snivelling little traitor\".\n\nInstead of leaving town, Eli lay in wait and kidnapped his brother, driving him to the top of a multi-storey carpark. When a terrified Marlon questioned why Eli was doing this, Eli admitted that it was because he had always resented Marlon. That he had spent his whole life being \"the rubbish one\" nobody loved, whilst everyone loved Marlon. During the argument, Marlon managed to get free and the two brothers had a fight that ended with Eli hanging from the side of the building. Marlon begged him to give him his hand, but Eli refused and when he was rescued anyway, he cried that he hadn't wanted to be saved and ran back to Zak, who furiously told Eli he was disowned.\n\nEli discovered that pensioner Lily Butterfield was using her polytunnel to grow cannabis to help with her arthritis. He began to blackmail her so that he could sell some of the cannabis for money. This led to Sam Dingle becoming unwittingly involved and arrested. Sam confessed and Eli was then arrested and named Lily. Luckily, Zak and Edna destroyed the evidence, and so the police were forced to drop the charges. Zak was disgusted with Eli and once again temporarily disowned him.\n\nDespite knowing that Debbie didn't love him, Eli planned a picnic in order to propose to her. He said he wanted to help her to get custody of her daughter Sarah. Debbie initially agreed, but called it off when she discovered the ring was stolen. Rejected, a heartbroken Eli stole her taxi and ended up knocking over a pedestrian who was revealed to be an ex-girlfriend, Danielle Hutch. Eli had served time in prison for Danielle, but he still had feelings for her and they slept together. It turned out that Danielle was on the run from local criminals the McFarlanes, who she'd stolen drugs from. Danielle was then arrested by Shane Doyle who was working for the McFarlanes. Eli tried looking for her, only to find her at a McFarlane-run nightclub. He tried rescuing her, but Danielle hurt his feelings to make him leave. When Chas Dingle's young son Aaron was being kept as a drugs mule by the McFarlanes, Danielle tipped off the Dingles in order for them to rescue him.\n\nThat same night, Debbie and Jasmine Thomas had uncovered the truth about Shane Doyle and when he attempted to rape Jasmine, she had bludgeoned him to death. Trying to conceal the crime, Debbie went to find Eli and took him back to the crime scene. Horrified, he eventually agreed to help and they disposed of Shane's body in the lake. The body was found in January 2009 and Ross Kirk was arrested after Marlon implicated him following his affair with Marlon's wife. Desperate to free her lover, Donna became suspicious of a guilty Eli and turned him in to the police. He was released, but his unusually withdrawn behaviour worried Zak and Eli started to reveal the truth, but was rearrested before he could. Faced with a life sentence, Eli cracked and confessed everything to the police. Debbie and Jasmine had been planning to run away together and leave Eli to his fate, but his confession led to Debbie being arrested whilst Jasmine escaped. When Zak realised that Eli has told the police the truth, he attacked him and declared him dead to the Dingle family.\n\nOnly Marlon stuck by Eli and took him into his house. Eli tried, but failed to correct his mistake and free Debbie. He tried changing his statement and then ran away from home when that went wrong. Marlon found him sleeping rough and convinced him to come back home. They then tracked Jasmine down to Scotland and tried to convince her to hand herself in, but were interrupted when her grandfather Sandy Thomas entered, wielding a gun. When he found out that Danielle was now in the same prison wing as Debbie, Eli concocted a plan to free both her and Debbie. However, Debbie refused to leave and Danielle was later caught and returned to prison. A guilty Jasmine returned and confessed the truth, leading to Debbie's release a few weeks later. However, Debbie's distress at Jasmine's sentence upset Eli who thought she would now hate him. Depressed about this and Danielle's arrest, he broke down in tears to Marlon and made an emotional speech about how much he secretly hated how he was, before deciding it was best for him to leave the village.\n\nA couple of months later, Laurel Thomas found him living on the streets. He was filthy and confessed he hadn't eaten in days, but revealed he didn't dare to go home. She told Marlon, who went to bring Eli home, but Eli refused, saying that he was cursed and caused his family nothing but misery. Marlon told Eli that he loved him and the two brothers shared a tearful hug before Eli returned to the village to discover that his family were happy welcome him back. Eli moved back in with Marlon, who took in a new lodger called Lizzie Lakely. Eli was initially jealous and suspicious of Lizzie, but they eventually became friends. He was involved in several dodgy schemes before his friendship with Priya Sharma saw him securing a steady job at the Sharma's sweet factory. Eli developed a slight crush on Priya, but it wasn't reciprocated.\n\nWhen Sam Dingle developed feelings for illegal Ukrainian immigrant Olena Petrovich, Zak asked Eli to spy on them. This eventually led to Eli and Olena becoming good friends and she confessed that she did not return Sam's intense feelings for her, but was scared to tell him the truth. Sam picked up on the closeness between the two and became jealous and ever more possessive. Sam decided to propose to Olena so that she could stay in the country and tried to get Cain to obtain a fake passport. Concerned, Zak warned Olena to leave town rather than hurt his son. If she did not, he would turn her into the authorities himself.\n\nFaced with losing Olena, Eli now confessed that he was also in love with her and Olena claimed that she was also falling in love with Eli. They shared a passionate kiss and made a pact to elope. Marlon realised something was going on between them and angrily confronted Eli who tearfully declared that he loved Olena and wanted to help her and her family. Marlon demanded that they tell Sam the truth, but Sam saw the pair kissing in a field and was left heartbroken, In revenge, he reported Olena to Border Control and she was arrested in front of a horrified Eli. Upset, Eli got drunk and began to accuse the other villagers of reporting her, before Sam confessed that it was him. A furious Eli threw a glass at his cousin's head before being dragged away by Marlon, who told him it was partly his own fault for becoming involved with a woman Sam cared for and for not telling Sam the truth. When Eli confronted Sam, Zak threatened him and told Eli that he was no longer a Dingle. In retaliation Eli told Sam that Zak had already ordered Olena to leave town.\n\nDepressed following the loss of Olena, Eli quit his job. He received a letter from Olena revealing that she was back home, but unhappy. Eli told Marlon that Olena had been his one chance of happiness and it had lasted a week and then been taken away from him - just like that. He then sank further into a downward spiral and began to steal again. With Marlon demanding rent, he decided to rob the cash box from the B&B. He made so much noise that he woke up a drunken Eric Pollard, who fell down the stairs and knocked himself unconscious. Horrified, Eli tried to wake him and then struggled with his conscience before greed got the better of him and he took the cash box and ran. As Sam had been the one to find Eric, he was blamed for the theft. Eli planned to run away, but Marlon caught him and warned his brother that he had better get Sam out of this mess. Eli was about to leave, when he had second thoughts and advised Marlon that he was going away forever, so that he wouldn't keep screwing things up for everyone around him.\n\nEli then revealed himself to be the thief, before apologising to Sam. He left before he could be arrested and Marlon followed him, begging his brother not to leave on bad terms. The two had an emotional discussion about their childhood before Marlon kissed his brother goodbye. Eli returned the cash box to Marlon, which was later discovered to be empty apart from a note which read \"IOU £400\". Eli was last seen leaving the village. He took one last tearful look back, then turned and walked away.\n\nEli Dingle was introduced by series producer Kathleen Beedles in 2006 as the previously unmentioned younger brother of Marlon Dingle and the youngest son of Albert Dingle. Joseph Gilgun and Matthew Wolfenden (who went on to play David Metcalfe) were shortlisted for the role of Eli. However, the producers decided that Gilgun was more suited to this role. Before starting on \"Emmerdale\", Gilgun was working as a plasterer and described joining the soap as \"a dream come true\".\n\nEli had a history of getting himself and others into trouble. Scruffy, lazy and impulsive his criminal activities ranged from petty shoplifting to armed robbery. Loud and jovial, Eli was generally portrayed as an immature, lovable rogue who refused to take any responsibility for himself. He also had a far more dangerous, vindictive streak but could sometimes display a sensitive, thoughtful side as well. He had a tendency to fall in love easily and was drawn to women who needed his help. The character hinted at a troubled upbringing including time spent in a Young Offender's Institute. On more than one occasion, he acknowledged that he did not like the person he was, but felt unable to change.\n\nIn November 2009 Gilgun announced his decision to quit in order to pursue other projects, including \"This Is England '86\". He was \"sad to leave\", but felt it was time to move on. An \"Emmerdale\" spokeswoman confirmed his departure but added that they were not \"ruling out\" the possibility of him returning to the show. Gilgun since admitted that he'd \"had enough\" of \"Emmerdale\" and felt that it was mutual. He said that there wasn't much more that could be done with the character of Eli.\n\n"}
{"id": "25351090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25351090", "title": "Eric Arnold", "text": "Eric Arnold\n\nEric Arnold is an American journalist and author, formerly a news editor of \"Wine Spectator\" and wine and spirits writer and lifestyle editor for \"Forbes.com\". In 2010, Arnold joined the online wine community enterprise Bottlenotes as Editorial Director. Arnold has previously worked as a stand-up comedian.\n\nIn September 2007, Arnold published \"First Big Crush\", an account of a year spent immersed in the wine culture of New Zealand. In September 2009, a team of New Zealand filmmakers headed by Ben Ruffell announced intentions to adapt the book into a feature film.\n\n"}
{"id": "612011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612011", "title": "Ernesto Miranda", "text": "Ernesto Miranda\n\nErnesto Arturo Miranda (March 9, 1941 – January 31, 1976) was a laborer whose conviction on kidnapping, rape, and armed robbery charges based on his confession under police interrogation was set aside in the landmark U.S. Supreme Court case \"Miranda v. Arizona\", which ruled that criminal suspects must be informed of their right against self-incrimination and their right to consult with an attorney before being questioned by police. This warning is known as a \"Miranda\" warning.\n\nAfter the Supreme Court decision set aside Miranda's initial conviction, the state of Arizona tried him again. At the second trial, with his confession excluded from evidence, he was again convicted.\n\nErnesto Arturo Miranda was an American citizen born in Mesa, Arizona, on March 9, 1941. Miranda began getting in trouble when he was in grade school. Shortly after his mother died, his father remarried. Miranda and his father didn't get along very well; he kept his distance from his brothers and stepmother as well. Miranda's first criminal conviction was during his eighth grade year. The following year, he was convicted of burglary and sentenced to a year in reform school.\n\nIn 1956, about a month after his release from the reform school, Arizona State Industrial School for Boys (ASISB), he fell afoul of the law once more and was returned to ASISB. Upon his second release from reform school he relocated to Los Angeles, California. Within months of his arrival in LA, Miranda was arrested (but not convicted) on suspicion of armed robbery and for some sex offenses. After two and a half years in custody the 18-year-old Miranda was extradited back to Arizona.\n\nHe drifted through the southern U.S. for a few months, spending time in jail in Texas for living on the street without money or a place to live, and was arrested in Nashville, Tennessee, for driving a stolen car. Miranda was sentenced to a year and a day in the federal prison system because he had taken the stolen vehicle across state lines. He spent his sentence in Chillicothe, Ohio, and later in Lompoc, California.\n\nThe next couple of years Miranda kept out of jail, working at various places, until he became a laborer on the night loading dock for the Phoenix produce company. At that time he started living with Twila Hoffman, a 29-year-old mother of a boy and a girl by another man, from whom she could not afford a divorce.\n\nOn March 13, 1963, Miranda's truck was spotted and license plates recognized by the brother of an 18-year-old kidnapping and rape victim, Lois Ann Jameson (the victim had given the brother a description). With his description of the car and a partial license plate number, Phoenix police officers Carroll Cooley and Wilfred Young confronted Miranda, who voluntarily accompanied them to the station house and participated in a lineup. At the time, Miranda was a person of interest, and not formally in custody.\n\nAfter the lineup, when Miranda asked how he did, the police implied that he was positively identified. The police got a confession out of Miranda after two hours of interrogation, without informing him of his rights. After unburdening himself to the officers, Miranda was taken to meet the beating victim for positive voice identification. Asked by officers, in her presence, whether this was the victim, Miranda said, \"That's the girl.\" The victim stated that the sound of Miranda's voice matched that of the culprit.\n\nMiranda then wrote his confessions down. At the top of each sheet was the printed certification that \"…this statement has been made voluntarily and of my own free will, with no threats, coercion or promises of immunity and with full knowledge of my legal rights, understanding any statement I make can and will be used against me.\" Despite the statement on top of the sheets that Miranda was confessing \"with full knowledge of my legal rights,\" he was not informed of his right to have an attorney present or of his right to remain silent. 73-year-old Alvin Moore was assigned to represent him at his trial. The trial took place in mid-June 1963 before Maricopa County Superior Court Judge Yale McFate.\n\nMoore objected to entering the confession by Miranda as evidence during the trial but was overruled. Mostly because of the confession, Miranda was convicted of rape and kidnapping and sentenced to 20 to 30 years on both charges. Moore appealed to the Arizona Supreme Court, but the conviction was upheld.\n\nFiling as a pauper, Miranda submitted his plea for a writ of certiorari, or request for review of his case to the U.S. Supreme Court in June 1965. After Alvin Moore was unable to take the case because of health reasons, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) attorney Robert J. Corcoran, asked John J. Flynn, a criminal defense attorney, to serve pro bono, along with his partner, John P. Frank, and associates Paul G. Ulrich and Robert A. Jensen of the law firm Lewis & Roca in Phoenix to represent Miranda. They wrote a 2,500 word petition for certiorari that argued that Miranda's Fifth Amendment rights had been violated and sent it to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nIn November 1965, the Supreme Court agreed to hear Miranda's case, \"Miranda v. Arizona\", along with three other similar cases to clear all misunderstandings created by the ruling of \"Escobedo v. Illinois\". That previous case had ruled that: \nUnder the circumstances of this case, where a police investigation is no longer a general inquiry into an unsolved crime but has begun to focus on a particular suspect in police custody who has been refused an opportunity to consult with his counsel and who has not been warned of his constitutional right to keep silent, the accused has been denied the assistance of counsel in violation of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments, and no statement extracted by the police during the interrogation may be used against him at a trial. \"Crooker v. California\", 357 U.S. 433, and \"Cicenia v. Lagay\", 357 U.S. 504, distinguished, and, to the extent that they may be inconsistent with the instant case, they are not controlling. Pp. 479–492.\n\nJanuary 1966, Flynn and Frank submitted their argument stating that Miranda's Sixth Amendment right to counsel had been violated by the Phoenix Police Department. Two weeks later the state of Arizona responded by stating that Miranda's rights had not been violated. The first day of the case was on the last day of February 1966. Because of the three other cases and other information the case had a second day of oral arguments on March 1, 1966.\n\nJohn Flynn and John Paul Frank for Miranda outlined the case and then stated that Miranda had not been advised of his right to remain silent when he had been arrested and questioned, adding the Fifth Amendment argument to his case. Flynn contended that an emotionally disturbed man like Miranda, who had a limited education, should not be expected to know his Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate himself.\n\nGary Nelson spoke for the people of Arizona, arguing that this was not a Fifth Amendment issue but just an attempt to expand the Sixth Amendment \"Escobedo\" decision. He urged the justices to clarify their position, but not to push the limits of \"Escobedo\" too far. He then told the court that forcing police to advise suspects of their rights would seriously obstruct public safety.\n\nThe second day concerned arguments from related cases. Thurgood Marshall, the former NAACP attorney, was the last to argue. In his capacity as the Solicitor General, he presented the Johnson administration's view of the case: that the government did not have the resources to appoint a lawyer for every indigent person who was accused of a crime.\n\nChief Justice Earl Warren wrote the opinion in \"Miranda v. Arizona\". The decision was in favor of Miranda. It stated that:\nThe person in custody must, prior to interrogation, be clearly informed that he has the right to remain silent, and that anything he says will be used against him in court; he must be clearly informed that he has the right to consult with a lawyer and to have the lawyer with him during interrogation, and that, if he is indigent, a lawyer will be appointed to represent him.\n\nThe opinion was released on June 13, 1966. Because of the ruling, police departments around the country started to issue \"Miranda\" warning cards to their officers to recite. They read:\nYou have the right to remain silent. If you give up the right to remain silent, anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to an attorney and to have an attorney present during questioning. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be provided to you at no cost. During any questioning, you may decide at any time to exercise these rights, not answer any questions or make any statements. Do you understand these rights as I have read them to you?\n\nThe Supreme Court set aside Miranda's conviction, which was tainted by the use of the confession that had been obtained through improper interrogation. The state of Arizona retried him. At the second trial, his confession was not introduced into evidence, but he was convicted again, based on testimony given by his estranged common law wife. He was sentenced to 20 to 30 years in prison.\n\nMiranda was paroled in 1972. After his release, he started selling autographed \"Miranda\" warning cards for $1.50. Over the next few years, Miranda was arrested numerous times for minor driving offenses and eventually lost his license. He was arrested for the possession of a gun but the charges were dropped. However, because this violated his parole, he was sent back to Arizona State Prison for another year.\n\nOn January 31, 1976, after his release for violating his parole, a violent fight broke out in a bar in Phoenix. Miranda received a lethal wound from a knife, and he was pronounced dead on arrival at Good Samaritan Hospital. Several Miranda cards were found on his person. Miranda was buried in the City of Mesa Cemetery in Mesa, Arizona.\n\n"}
{"id": "8931674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8931674", "title": "Ezra ben Isaac Fano", "text": "Ezra ben Isaac Fano\n\nEzra ben Isaac Fano was Rabbi of Mantua and cabalist who lived in the 16th and 17th centuries. Fano was a pupil of the cabalist Israel Saruḳ, and among his own pupils were Menahem Azariah da Fano, Jacob the Levite, and Issachar Baer Eulenburg.\n\nOn 14 July 1591, Fano received the title of \"Chief Rabbi Laureate of Mantua.\" He was the possessor of valuable manuscripts, some of which he edited and annotated. He published, under the title of \"Sefer Mishpeṭe Shebu'ot\" (Venice, 1602), a collection of small treatises by Hai Gaon. In conjunction with Meïr of Padua, he edited a manuscript of the \"Midrash Tanḥuma,\" adding a preface, an index, and three tables of practical decisions (Mantua, 1613). His decisions were published in Moses Porto's \"Palge Mayim\" (p. 28b) and in the collection entitled \"Mashbit Milḥamot\" (p. 32b). MS. No. 130 in the \"Codices Hebraic. Biblioth. I. B. de Rossi\" (Parma, 1803) contains a collection of letters written to Fano by Mordecai Dato and Joseph Ḥazaḳ (Cod. 130), and Joseph Gikatilla's \"Sefer ha-Oraḥ,\" with a description by Fano (Cod. 1228). Fano also wrote notes to many cabalistic works.\n\n"}
{"id": "22416970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22416970", "title": "Fanny Ronalds", "text": "Fanny Ronalds\n\nMary Frances \"Fanny\" Ronalds (August 23, 1839 – July 28, 1916) was an American socialite and amateur singer who is best known for her long affair with the composer Arthur Sullivan in London in the last decades of the nineteenth century and for her musical salons.\n\nAfter separating from her husband, Ronalds moved with her children from New York to Paris in 1867, then to Tunis in 1869, and eventually to London in 1875. She was accepted into royal social circles and was a popular hostess. A noted beauty, she became romantically involved with Arthur Sullivan during the 1870s and continued as his companion until his death in 1900. She was much admired as a singer and became famously associated with one of Sullivan's most popular songs, \"The Lost Chord\".\n\nMary Frances Carter was born in Boston, Massachusetts, the daughter of Joseph Ballard Carter (1813–1889) and his wife, Mary (née Chamberlain) Carter (died 1898). In 1859 at age twenty, already known as a beauty with a talent for singing, she married Pierre Lorillard Ronalds (grandson of Pierre Lorillard II), a New Yorker called by \"The New York Times\", \"The Father of American Coaching\". The young Mrs. Ronalds quickly became a noted socialite and hostess. At one magnificent ball that she gave in the early 1860s, Ronalds famously appeared dressed \"as Music, in a white satin gown embroidered with bars from Verdi's \"Un ballo in maschera\"\", wearing a harp-shaped, illuminated crown. The Ronalds had four children. A contemporary account described Ronalds as follows: \"Her face was perfectly divine in its loveliness, her features small and exquisitely regular. Her hair was a dark shade of brown – \"châtain foncé\" [deep chestnut] – and very abundant... a lovely woman, with the most generous smile one could possibly imagine, and the most beautiful teeth.\"\n\nBy 1867, she had separated from her husband, whom she never divorced. She developed a relationship with the wealthy Leonard Jerome (Winston Churchill's grandfather), a notorious womanizer, but somehow maintained a friendship with his wife and daughters, including Jennie Churchill, who remembered Ronalds singing them to sleep. She often visited their home in Newport, Rhode Island, and when Mrs. Jerome moved to Paris with her daughters, Ronalds followed, taking her younger children. There, noted for her beauty and social talents, she joined the court circles of the pleasure-loving Empress Eugénie and Napoleon III. During a party, Napoleon rescued her after she fell into one of his ponds. She soon met Arthur Sullivan during one of his visits to Paris. According to \"The New York Times\", she became the leader of the American community in Paris. In 1868, in the French courts, Ronalds obtained a legal separation from her husband, giving her control over their children.\n\nIntroduced by Napoleon and Eugénie to British society, she quickly became one of the many \"friends\" of the skirt-chasing Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII) and was soon known for hosting fashionable musical entertainments and elegant soirées for artists, musicians and high society. With the faltering of the Second Empire as unrest grew in France, her opportunities there collapsed, and Ronalds moved with her children to Tunis in 1869. There she became a partner in some farm property near Sidi Thabet with the French Count de Sancy.\n\nIn early 1875, Ronalds left Tunis and moved to London. She had continued to maintain her friendship with Jennie Jerome, who became Lady Randolph Churchill in 1874. She later became friendly with Queen Victoria and Queen Alexandra.\n\nRonalds' affair with Sullivan began not long after she moved to London. Though three years his senior, she was still in her mid-thirties and beautiful, with a strong personality. Social conventions of the time compelled them to keep their relationship discreet. She was still married, but even had she been divorced, Sullivan would not have been willing to face the social stigma of marrying a divorcee. Their relationship deepened after the deaths of his brother Fred (1877) and his mother (1882). Sullivan became close with Ronalds' children and parents, especially after his brother Fred's family moved to America in 1883. In his diaries, Sullivan referred to her as \"Mrs. Ronalds\" when he saw her in a public setting, but \"L. W.\" (for \"Little Woman\") when they were alone together, often with a number in parentheses indicating the number of sexual acts completed. It is thought that Ronalds was pregnant on at least two occasions, and she apparently procured an abortion in 1882 and again in 1884. The 1999 biographical film \"Topsy-Turvy\" depicts Sullivan and Ronalds discussing an abortion at around the time of the production of \"The Mikado\". Eleanor David portrays Ronalds in the film.\n\nSullivan had a roving eye, and his diary records the occasional quarrel when one of his many other liaisons was discovered, but he always returned to Ronalds. She was his constant companion until his death in 1900, but by about 1889 or 1890, the sexual relationship seems to have ended. He started to refer to her in the diary as \"Auntie\" (she also was called \"auntie\" by his nephew, Herbert Sullivan), and the tick marks indicating sexual activity were no longer there, although similar notation continued to be used for his relationships with other women who have not been identified and who were always referred to by their initials.\n\nRonalds was an excellent and much admired singer, using her voice for good causes since her days in New York, when she gave concerts in aid of Civil War troops; later \"in Paris she was known as the \"Patti des Salons\". Sullivan described her as \"the best amateur singer in London\". She often performed Sullivan's songs at her famous Sunday soirees. She became particularly associated with one of his most popular songs, \"The Lost Chord\", which he composed in 1877 as he watched over his dying brother. Ronalds became its most famous interpreter, singing it both in private and in public, often with Sullivan himself accompanying her. When Sullivan died, he left her the autograph manuscript of that song, along with other bequests. For Ronalds, Sullivan composed the song \"St. Agnes' Eve\". Ronalds also wrote songs, including \"In Shadow\" (1881).\nIn 1899 when the Boer War broke out, Ronalds was elected treasurer of an effort to finance an American hospital ship, the \"S.S. Maine\", to be sent to South Africa. She was also active in charitable work for the Red Cross and received the Royal Red Cross among other honors. In July 1901 she was appointed an Honorary Lady of Grace of the Order of St. John.\n\nWhen Ronalds died in 1916, at the age of 76, a copy of the manuscript of \"The Lost Chord\" was buried with her, at her request. She is buried in the Brompton Cemetery in London. In an inscription to a wreath that she sent to the funeral, Princess Louise described Ronalds as \"one of the kindest and most unselfish of women\". She was survived by her children, Pierre Lorillard Ronalds, Jr., Reginald Ronalds (who became a Rough Rider) and Fannette (\"Fannie\") Ritchie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1973147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973147", "title": "Franklin Khan", "text": "Franklin Khan\n\nFranklin Khan is a Trinidad and Tobago politician and former Member of Parliament for Ortoire-Mayaro and Chairman of the ruling People's National Movement. \nIn 2005, Khan was indicted on corruption charges, all of which were dropped in a court of law five years later.\n\nHe had been the first politician in Trinidad and Tobago to be indicted for corruption while his party was still in power. Khan was elected in 2002 on a PNM ticket, defeating incumbent Winston Peters. Between September, 2002 and May 8, 2005 Khan served as Minister of Works, resigning in the face of bribery allegations levelled by PNM Councillor Dansam Dhansook, who is now under investigation for allegedly making false statements.\n\nAfter having been cleared of all accusations, Mr. Khan is expected to resume his career in politics.\n"}
{"id": "57703391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57703391", "title": "Héctor Germán Buitrago", "text": "Héctor Germán Buitrago\n\nHéctor Germán Buitrago Parada (January 23, 1968 in Monterrey, Casanare), also known as Martín Llanos, and also as Patezorro or Marroco, is a Colombian right-wing paramilitary leader and drug lord. At the time of his arrest by authorities he was considered the last one of the big paramilitary leaders, as he had been successful in evading capture for years.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s his father, Héctor José Buitrago Rodríguez (also known as \"El Viejo\" or \"Tripas\"), had assembled a group of cattle-raiser families in the municipalities of Monterrey, in the Casanare department, in the region of Colombia's eastern plains, and provided them with weapons so as to fight against extortion and kidnapping by the FARC guerrillas. As this early group, known as \"Los Buitragueños,\" grew up in power and influence it became the basis of the \"Autodefensas Campesinas de Casanare\" (ACC), one of the most powerful paramilitary organizations in Colombia. The growth of the organization was supported by the economic and military support provided by drug lord Gonzalo Rodríguez Gacha, going from a group of about 60 individuals to about 500. It has also been suggested that the organization received support from emerald czar Víctor Carranza. With the death of Rodríguez Gacha in 1989, the ACC became closer to drug trafficking organizations in Venezuela. \n\nBuitrago's father ordered a massacre of eleven members of a judicial commission in 1997, which led to his being arrested in 1998. He was liberated from jail by his sons, Buitrago and his brother Nelson (also known as \"Caballo\"), but eventually recaptured in 2010. With his father's arrest, Buitrago took command of the ACC, expanding their military influence as well as their trade with Mexican drug cartels, and its political influence by funding political campaigns. As the organization grew up in power and influence, however, this growth collided with the interests of the AUC paramilitary organization, which the ACC had never joined. The AUC wanted control of the departments of Meta and Casanare and this led to a violent war between the ACC and the Centaurs Bloc of the AUC under the command of paramilitary leaders including Miguel Arroyave and Cuchillo. Emerald czar Víctor Carranza was accused by paramilitary leader Don Mario as being an instigator of the conflict by telling both paramilitary leaders that the other was attempting to kill them. Other sources have suggested instead that Carranza actually helped the Buitrago side, as he had been long-time friend of Buitrago's father, and pushed local policemen to attack Arroyave's gunmen. Whatever the case, and despite recruiting hundreds of children and teenagers to help with the war, leaving thousands of fatalities behind, the AUC proved superior. This led to Buitrago seeking allegiances with former enemies from the FARC guerrilla, particularly commander Negro Acacio, to no avail. Famously, Arroyave seized a golden pistol that had been given to Buitrago as a gift by Mexican drug cartels. \n\nThe defeat came at the same time as the AUC were negotiating a peace process with the national government of Álvaro Uribe. Buitrago decided not to adhere on the grounds of not wanting to be compared with other paramilitary leaders, and because he felt he could be betrayed and even killed as was the case with Carlos Castaño and even his former enemy Miguel Arroyave. Buitrago then decided to leave the country, spending time in Costa Rica, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Venezuela. While he remained outside of the country, however, his organization regained strength with the assassination of Arroyave and the peace negotiations, and the ACC started regaining control of coca growing lands and drug trafficking routes in Casanare and most of the eastern plains regions. \n\nBuitrago remained relatively anonymous throughout this time, and authorities only had an old picture of him, but after an international operation that involved tracking of Buitrago's wife and mistress they managed to capture him and his brother on February 4, 2012 in the eastern Venezuelan city of Acarigua. Buitrago was condemned to 35 years in prison for the assassination of 34 people. He was also condemned to 14 years for the murder of Casanare's governor Emiro Sossa in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "36072636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36072636", "title": "Ivy Bottini", "text": "Ivy Bottini\n\nIvy Bottini (born August 15, 1926 in New York) is an American women's rights and LGBT rights activist and artist. \n\nFrom 1944 until 1947, she attended Pratt Institute School of Art, where she earned a certificate in advertising graphic design and illustration. She married Edward Bottini in 1951. She was employed for sixteen years at the east coast daily newspaper Newsday, until her move to Los Angeles in 1971.\n\nBottini realized she had same sex attractions at an early age. Her first crush was on her first grade female gym teacher. During an interview with the Lavender Effect, Bottini admitted to falling \"in love with every gym teacher I ever had in my life.\" She also formed a close, platonic relationship with one of her seventh grade teachers, whom became a parental figure for her. \n\nDespite her attraction to women, Bottini did not pursue lesbian relationships, due to cultural norms of the time. She was engaged to several men, with each engagement lasting only a few weeks before she'd end the relationship. She married her husband of sixteen years, Eddie, on January 12, 1952. Leading up to the marriage, Bottini began experiencing physical symptoms involving her ability to swallow food properly. Her doctor realized her symptoms were related to anxiety and referred her to a psychiatrist. She expressed to the psychiatrist that she felt attracted to women, but the psychiatrist told her she was not homosexual. He suggested she abandon her friends and interests and \"cleave\" to soon to be husband, Eddie. She did as her psychiatrist instructed, but her lesbian desires did not subside. \n\nYears later, a coworker, Delores Alexander, introduced Bottini to the National Organization for Women (NOW). Alexander had just interviewed the NOW president Betty Friedan, and felt it would be a useful organization for Bottini to join. Within a month, she had founded the first chapter of NOW in New York City. Soon after becoming president of the New York chapter of NOW she came out as a lesbian. She left her husband and moved in with a woman in New York City. \n\nShe also studied acting at Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute and performed a one-woman show, \"The Many Faces of Women\", nationwide. \n\nBottini now works as a graphic artist.\n\nIn 1966, she helped found the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women. In 1968, she was elected the president of the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women; she came out as a lesbian later that year. In 1969, she designed the logo for the National Organization for Women which is still their logo today. Also in 1969, she held a public forum titled \"Is Lesbianism a Feminist Issue?\", which was the first time lesbian concerns were introduced into the National Organization for Women. In 1970, she led a demonstration at the Statue of Liberty where she and others from the National Organization for Women's New York chapter draped an enormous banner over a railing which read \"WOMEN OF THE WORLD UNITE!\" During her time at the National Organization for Women's New York chapter she also introduced feminist consciousness raising, which was later adapted for all chapters in the organization to participate in. However, later in 1970 Betty Friedan engineered the expulsion of lesbians from the National Organization for Women's New York chapter, including Ivy Bottini.\n\nShe moved to Los Angeles in 1971. There she founded AIDS Network LA, the first AIDS organization in Los Angeles, and the Los Angeles Lesbian/Gay Police Advisory Board. In 1977, she created and hosted the first Lesbian/Gay radio show on a mainstream network (KHJ in Los Angeles.) In 1978, she was the Southern California deputy director of the successful campaign against the Briggs Initiative (No on 6), which would have banned gays and lesbians from teaching in California's public schools. She later chaired the successful No on LaRouche and No on 64 Initiative campaign. The Larouche initiative (Number 64), which was not passed, might have quarantined people with AIDS. In 1981 she was appointed by then-governor Jerry Brown as Commissioner for \"California Commission on Aging\", making her the first \"out\" lesbian or gay person to be appointed to a state board or commission. In 1983 she co-founded AIDS Project Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1993, she co-founded the nonprofit organization Gay & Lesbian Elder Housing, which in 2007 developed Triangle Square, the first affordable housing complex for gay and lesbian senior citizens in the country. From 1998 until 1999, she co-chaired the addiction and recovery city task force, and established the ad hoc committee City of West Hollywood, to publicize the issue of lesbian and gay partner abuse.\n\nAlso in 1999, she chaired the National Organization for Women's annual national conference, called Pioneer Reunion, in Beverly Hills. Shortly after, she co-chaired the Lesbian and Gay Advisory Board for the City of West Hollywood from 2000 to 2010. In 2001, she was part of a lesbian and gay rights coalition that formed the Alliance for Diverse Community Aging Services to help lesbian and gay seniors obtain assisted living and affordable retirement. In 2011, she designed t-shirts for the Dyke March in Los Angeles.\n\nShe and The Lavender Effect, an LGBT history organization, are currently advocating for a LGBT museum in Los Angeles. She is also advocating for the creation of an AIDS memorial in West Hollywood.\n\nHer papers and certain audio recordings are held by ONE National Gay and Lesbian Archives. In 2009, the film \"On These Shoulders We Stand\" profiled Ivy Bottini as well as ten other LGBT activists from the early LGBT rights movement in Los Angeles. She participated in an Oral History project by The Lavender Effect, which documented her personal life and work as an acvivist. \n\nIn 1991, she received Drama Logues' \"Best Performance Award\" for \"Against the Rising Sea.\" \n\nIn 1998, the Ivy Theater was established in her honor in West Hollywood.\n\nIn 2001, in the Matthew Shepard Memorial Triangle a tree was planted in her honor, and a plaque placed at the foot of it.\n\nIn 2007, she received the Morris Kight Lifetime Achievement Award from Christopher Street West Los Angeles LGBT Pride.\n"}
{"id": "56271831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56271831", "title": "James Dolan (computer security expert)", "text": "James Dolan (computer security expert)\n\nJames S. Dolan (July 20, 1981 – December 27, 2017) was an American computer security expert who, with Aaron Swartz and Kevin Poulsen, co-developed SecureDrop, a widely used secure digital platform for sources to anonymously submit materials to journalists.\n\nDolan grew up in Chester, New York. He grew up with four sisters. He went to school at the Tuxedo Park school and was considered gifted at an early age. Later, he moved to Brooklyn, which is where he called home. and Chester, NY.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2006, Dolan served with the Marines in two deployments during the Iraq War where he worked as a data network specialist. In 2003, Dolan served with III Marine Expeditionary Force during the initial Iraq War. In his second deployment, which was from September 2004 to March 2005, Dolan served with 4th Civil Affairs Group in Fallujah, which was one of the centers of the conflict at that time. Dolan was in Fallujah during Operation Phantom Fury, part of the Second Battle of Fallujah\n\nTrevor Timm from the Freedom of the Press Foundation referenced Dolan's military service in his description of Dolan in the obituary he wrote, saying that the impact of serving in Iraq was an often spoke of motivating factor for Dolan's cybersecurity work, with the goal of making metadata \"transparent and accountable.\"\n\nAfter his service in the Iraq War, Dolan worked in computer security at a large IT company.\n\nIn 2012, as a side project to his IT job, Dolan helped develop the open source SecureDrop, initially known as DeadDrop. In 2013, Poulsen and Dolan moved it to the Freedom of the Press Foundation to ensure its continued development and adoption following the death of fellow developer Aaron Swartz. Dolan was the lead maintainer for DeadDrop, and as the Freedom of the Press Foundation's first employee, performed outreach and assisted in installations for news organizations that included \"The New Yorker,\" \"ProPublica,\" \"The Washington Post,\" and \"VICE News,\" among others.\n\nIn 2015, Dolan moved to San Diego, California to work as head of security at Classy, an American software company and an online fundraising platform designed for nonprofit organizations, a position he held at the time of his death.\n\nDolan was found dead in a Brooklyn hotel in December 2017 at the age of 36. Former colleagues speculate James died of suicide (the same fate as Swartz). He reportedly suffered from PTSD from his time in the Marines. Dolan was the second member of the SecureDrop team to commit suicide. A GoFundMe fund was set up by his fellow Marines to establish the James Dolan Memorial Fund, which will annually donate to designated non-profit foundations and projects in his name.\n"}
{"id": "29625912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29625912", "title": "Jeremy Marchant Forde", "text": "Jeremy Marchant Forde\n\nJeremy Neville Marchant Forde, FRSB (né Marchant; born 6 Jan 1966, R.A.F. Akrotiri, Cyprus) is an English/American biologist and Research Animal Scientist at the United States Department of Agriculture - Agricultural Research Service's Livestock Behavior Research Unit, based in West Lafayette, Indiana. He is also a past President of the International Society for Applied Ethology.\n\nJeremy Marchant Forde attended Woodbridge School and subsequently the University of Bristol and St. Catharine's College, Cambridge. He received his BSc degree in biochemistry and Ph.D. degree in applied animal behaviour from Cambridge University, supervised by Prof. Donald Broom. During his time as a graduate student, he was a keen sportsman, representing Cambridge in the 1992 and 1993 Rugby League Varsity Matches, winning 2 Half Blues and being elected to the Hawks' Club. In 1996 he received a Churchill Fellowship which enabled him to spend 3 months visiting research centers throughout Northern Europe, collating research on alternatives to the farrowing crate, and influencing his work on causes of piglet mortality.\n\nPrevious academic positions include Research Associate at the University of Cambridge and Senior Research Fellow at the University of Lincoln. Previous academic roles include Honorary Treasurer of the International Society for Applied Ethology and member of Program Committees for the American Society of Animal Science and British Society of Animal Science. He was Chair of the Organizing Committee for the 45th Congress of the International Society for Applied Ethology held in Indianapolis in 2011. He has served on the Editorial Board for the Journal of Animal Science and as a Section Editor for Livestock Science. He is currently a Specialty Chief Editor for Frontiers in Veterinary Science, with responsibility for the Animal Behavior & Welfare specialty section.\n\nHis early work on the effects of housing systems on the welfare of pregnant sows, specifically on cardiovascular health, bone strength and posture-changing behavior, contributed to the body of evidence that led, eventually, to major changes in animal welfare and the way these animals are kept in many parts of the world, beginning with the European Union and spreading to North America and Oceania. He was also the first animal welfare scientist to publish a study using heart rate variability as a welfare indicator.\n\nHe is a cousin of the cricketer Michael Peck.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6220279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6220279", "title": "Jordan Cronenweth", "text": "Jordan Cronenweth\n\nJordan Scott Cronenweth (February 20, 1935 – November 29, 1996) was an American cinematographer based in Los Angeles, California. He was a member of the American Society of Cinematographers (ASC). His son, Jeff Cronenweth, is also a cinematographer and an active member of said organization.\n\nA contemporary of Conrad Hall, he was recognized for his distinctive style of heavily textured, \"film noir\"-inspired photography, seen in numerous classic films, including \"Zandy's Bride\", \"Gable and Lombard\", \"Altered States,\" and \"Peggy Sue Got Married\". He is perhaps best remembered for his BAFTA Award-winning work on the groundbreaking science fiction film \"Blade Runner,\" which is credited as codifying the cyberpunk aesthetic, and is lauded by some as among the best cinematography of all-time. He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography and received an ASC Award for Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography in Theatrical Releases, and he is widely considered one of the most influential cinematographers of all time.\n\nBorn in Los Angeles, California on February 20, 1935, Cronenweth attended North Hollywood High School and later Los Angeles City College, majoring in Engineering. While in college he interned as a film lab assistant at Columbia Pictures acted as a cameraman on the 1955 musical film \"Oklahoma!\".\n\nCronenweth was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1978. He continued working despite pain for 13 years. His widely acclaimed work on the iconic science fiction-noir \"Blade Runner\" won the Best Cinematography Award from the Los Angeles Film Critics Association and got a BSC Award nomination and BAFTA Film Award. He won a 1987 ASC Award and earned an Academy Award nomination for \"Peggy Sue Got Married\".\n\nCronenweth was initially hired as the director of photography for the film \"The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension\" but halfway through production producers replaced him with Fred J. Koenekamp.\n\nHe was also replaced two weeks into the production of \"Alien³\" after falling ill, and died in 1996 at the age of 61. Cause of death was Parkinson's disease.\n\nA 2003 poll of his peers conducted by the International Cinematographers Guild placed Cronenweth among the ten most influential cinematographers of all time.\n\nHe and his first wife Carol had three children, Christie Cronenweth, Tim Cronenweth, and two-time Oscar-nominated cinematographer Jeff Cronenweth. He was later married to Shane Cronenweth.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10451685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10451685", "title": "Keith DeRose", "text": "Keith DeRose\n\nKeith DeRose (born April 24, 1962) is an American philosopher teaching at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, where he is currently Allison Foundation Professor of Philosophy. He taught previously at New York University and Rice University. His primary interests include epistemology, philosophy of language, philosophy of religion, and history of modern philosophy. He is best known for his work on contextualism in epistemology, especially as a response to the traditional problem of skepticism.\n\nDeRose graduated from Calvin College in 1984 with a B.A. in Philosophy. He then studied at UCLA, earning an M.A. in 1986 and a PhD in 1990; his dissertation was entitled \"Knowledge, Epistemic Possibility, and Skepticism\", under Rogers Albritton. While at UCLA, he won the Robert M. Yost Prize for Excellence in Teaching (1988), was awarded the Griffin Fellowship in 1990, and won the Carnap Essay Prize in 1989 and again in 1990.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5613397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613397", "title": "Leontius, Hypatius and Theodulus", "text": "Leontius, Hypatius and Theodulus\n\nSaints Leontius, Hypatius and Theodolus were Roman soldiers who, according to Christian tradition, were martyred for their faith.\n\nLeontius was Greek by origin, and served as an officer of the imperial army in the Phoenician city of Tripoli during the reign of Vespasian (70-79). Leontius was distinguished for his bravery and good sense, and the people of Tripoli held him in deep respect because of his virtue.\n\nThe emperor appointed the Roman senator Adrian as governor of the Phoenician district, with full powers to hunt out Christians, and in case of their refusal to offer sacrifice to the Roman gods, to give them over to torture and death. On his way to Phoenicia, Adrian received a report that Leontius had turned many away from worshipping the pagan gods. The governor sent the tribune Hypatius with a detachment of soldiers to Tripoli so as to find and arrest the Christian Leontius. Along the way the tribune Hypatius fell seriously ill, and being near death, he saw in a dream an angel, which said: \"If you wish to be healed, you and your soldiers should say three times: 'God of Leontius, help me.'\".\n\nOpening his eyes Hypatius beheld the angel and said, \"I was sent to arrest Leontius, how is it that I should appeal to his God?\" At this moment the angel became invisible. Hypatius told his dream to the soldiers, among whom was his friend Theodolus, and all of them together asked for help from the God whom Leontius confessed. Hypatius was immediately healed, to the great joy of his soldiers, but only Theodolus sat aside, pondering the miracle. His soul was filled with love for God, and he told Hypatius to proceed twice as quickly to the city in search of St Leontius.\n\nUpon their arrival in the city, a stranger met them and invited them to his house, where he lavishly hosted the travelers. Learning that their hospitable host was St Leontius, they fell on their knees and asked him to enlighten them with faith in the True God. They were baptized there, and when Leontius prayed over them calling on the Name of the Most Holy Trinity, a luminous cloud overshadowed the newly baptized and poured forth rain. The remaining soldiers in search of their commander arrived in Tripoli, where the governor Adrian had also arrived. Learning what had happened, he order Leontius, Hypatius and Theodolus to be brought to him. After threatening them with torture and death, he demanded that they renounce Christ and offer sacrifice to the Roman gods.\n\nAll three firmly confessed their faith in Christ. Hypatius was put under a column and raked with iron claws, and Theodolus was mercilessly beaten with rods. Seeing the steadfastness of these saints, they beheaded them. After torture, they sent Leontius to prison. In the morning he came before the governor. Adrian tried to entice him with honors and rewards, but accomplishing nothing, he gave him over to new tortures. Leontius was suspended head downwards from a pillar with a heavy stone about his neck, but nothing could make him renounce Christ. The governor gave orders to beat the sufferer with rods until he died. They then threw Leontius' body outside the city, but Christians reverently buried it near Tripoli.\n\nThe deaths of these martyrs occurred between 70-79. The accusation against St. Leontius and his sufferings and death are recorded on tin tablets prepared by the court scribe (commentarisius). These tablets were placed at the grave.\n\nA cathedral at Bosra was dedicated to Leontius and he was the patron saint of Syria.\n"}
{"id": "1316887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1316887", "title": "List of CKY Crew members", "text": "List of CKY Crew members\n\nThe Camp Kill Yourself Crew (referred to as The CKY Crew) was a group of friends and relatives centered around Bam Margera, many of whom are from or located in and around West Chester, Pennsylvania. The crew was active from Landspeed presents: CKY (1999) to Minghags (2009). Some members of the crew were skateboarders, while others were involved either on-camera or behind-the scenes in Margera's various projects such as the CKY Videos, \"Jackass\", \"Viva La Bam\", \"\", \"Bam's Unholy Union\" and Radio Bam.\n\nThe CKY Crew was closely linked to the band CKY, which features Bam's brother, Jess Margera, on drums. Music by the band was often featured in video projects members of the crew were involved with.\n\nIn 2011, a few members of the crew briefly reunited for MTV's Tribute to the late Ryan Dunn. Bam Margera, Jess Margera, Rake Yohn and Chris Raab were all featured in the special.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, MTV aired a special called \"CKY: The Greatest Hits\". It featured new interviews with Bam Margera, Jess Margera, Rake Yohn, Chris Raab, April Margera, Phil Margera, Dave Battaro and Joe Frantz. With special appearances from Johnny Knoxville, Jeff Tremaine, Kerry Getz and Tim O'Connor. The special also featured unreleased footage documenting the series as a whole. The special was directed by longtime CKY Crew member and cinematographer Joe Frantz.\n\n\n\n \n\nhttp://www.dickhouse.tv\n"}
{"id": "19834909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19834909", "title": "List of Serbians", "text": "List of Serbians\n\nThis is a list of notable people of Serbia. It includes people of the Serbian monarchy (1816–1918), Yugoslavia (1919–91), Serbia and Montenegro (1992–2006), and Republic of Serbia (2006–present).\n"}
{"id": "26644110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26644110", "title": "List of World War I military personnel educated at the United States Military Academy", "text": "List of World War I military personnel educated at the United States Military Academy\n\nThe United States Military Academy (USMA) is an undergraduate college in West Point, New York that educates and commissions officers for the United States Army. This list is drawn from alumni of the Military Academy who are veterans of World War I. This includes Tasker H. Bliss (class of 1875), Hunter Liggett (class of 1879), John J. Pershing (class of 1886), Douglas MacArthur (class of 1903), \"Hap\" Arnold (class of 1907), George S. Patton (class of 1909), and Thomas B. Larkin (class of 1915).\n\n"}
{"id": "519916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519916", "title": "List of people diagnosed with dyslexia", "text": "List of people diagnosed with dyslexia\n\nThe following is a list of notable people who are listed or reported to be dyslexic, or who some people thought were dyslexic, or more generally whenever there is an urban legend or popular myth about their being dyslexic. \n\n"}
{"id": "57145512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57145512", "title": "List of state visits received by King Felipe VI of Spain", "text": "List of state visits received by King Felipe VI of Spain\n\nSince acceding to the throne of Spain in 2014, King Felipe VI has received a number of state and official visits. He usually hosts one or two visiting heads of state each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "58417629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58417629", "title": "Maria Petrova (spree killer)", "text": "Maria Petrova (spree killer)\n\nMaria Aleksandrovna Petrova (born May 15, 1978), known as the \"Zyuzino Maniac\", is a Russian spree killer who killed two men and attempted to kill others. Her crimes, to some extent, are unique in the criminal history of Russia.\n\nMaria Petrova enjoyed swimming since childhood, but was uncommunicative and withdrawn. Once, according to her own statements, she was raped. The rapist, according to Petrova, was a young man. After that, as she claimed, she was molested by an elderly colleague at work, and developed a deep hatred for men.\n\nShe taught physical education at the Moscow Electron-Technological College, showing the following characteristics:Petrova also had a degree in psychoneurology. She had a masculine appearance: a muscular figure, broad shoulders and was pretty tall.\n\nOn March 1, 2002, Petrova killed 20-year-old Sergei Makariev by stabbing him twice with a knife. Subsequently, she explained that he harassed her, but no witnesses confirmed this. The murder took place at the bus stop of the Shalom Theater, near Varshavskaya Metro Station. On March 27, Petrova killed a 60-year-old pensioner, Nikolai Zhabin, by cutting his throat. Subsequently, Petrova committed three more attempted murders (all victims survived), and was suspected of another attack, but was not charged due to lack of evidence. All attacks were carried out in the same way - stab wounds to the peritoneum and neck.\n\nPetrova was not afraid of being caught, as she committed her crimes in front of dozens of people. Having a sufficiently public profession as a teacher and committing crimes in one area, she was soon exposed and arrested on April 23, 2002. Petrova soon confessed to everything. She was charged with killing two and attempting to kill four more people. The forensic psychiatric examination recognized her as insane and sent her for compulsory treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "4066625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4066625", "title": "Michael Howard (Microsoft)", "text": "Michael Howard (Microsoft)\n\nMichael Howard (born 1965) is a software security expert from Microsoft. He is the author of several computer security books, the most famous being Michael Howard is a frequent speaker at security-related conferences and frequently publishes articles on the subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "391106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391106", "title": "Moshé Feldenkrais", "text": "Moshé Feldenkrais\n\nMoshé Pinchas Feldenkrais (Hebrew: משה פנחס פלדנקרייז, May 6, 1904 – July 1, 1984) was an Israeli engineer and physicist and the founder of the Feldenkrais Method,which is claimed to improve human functioning by increasing self-awareness through movement; it is not supported by medical evidence.\n\nFeldenkrais' theory is that \"thought, feeling, perception and movement are closely interrelated and influence each other.\"\n\nHe was born in the Russian Empire city of Slavuta (now in Ukraine) and grew up in Baranovichi, Belarus. In 1918, he immigrated to Palestine. He worked as a laborer and obtained his high school diploma from Gymnasia Herzliya in 1925. After graduation, he worked as a cartographer for the British survey office and began to study self-defense, including Ju-Jitsu. A soccer injury in 1929 promoted the development of his method in later years.\n\nDuring the 1930s, he lived in France, where he earned his engineering degree from the École Spéciale des Travaux Publics and, later, his Doctor of Science in Physics at the University of Paris, where Marie Curie was one of his teachers. \n\nHe worked as a research assistant to nuclear chemist and Nobel Prize laureate Frédéric Joliot-Curie at the Radium Institute. In September 1933, he met Jigoro Kano, the founder of judo in Paris. Kano encouraged him to study Judo under Mikinosuke Kawaishi. Feldenkrais became a close friend of Kano and corresponded with him regularly. In 1936, he earned a black belt in judo, and later gained his 2nd degree black belt in 1938. He was a co-founding member of the Ju-Jitsu Club de France, one of the oldest Judo clubs in Europe, which still exists today. Frédéric and Irène Joliot-Curie and Bertrand Goldschmidt took Judo lessons from him during their time together at the institute.\n\nOn the eve of the Nazi invasion of France in 1940, Feldenkrais fled to Britain with a jar of heavy water and a sheaf of research material, with instructions to deliver them to the British Admiralty War Office. Until 1946, he was a science officer in the Admiralty working on anti-submarine weaponry in Fairlie, Scotland. His work on improving sonar led to several patents. He also taught self-defense techniques to his fellow servicemen. On slippery submarine decks, he re-aggravated an old soccer knee injury. Refusing an operation, he was prompted to intently explore and develop self-rehabilitation and awareness techniques by self-observation that later evolved into the method. His discoveries led him to begin sharing with others (including colleague J. D. Bernal) through lectures, experimental classes, and one-on-one work with a few.\n\nAfter leaving the Admiralty, he lived and worked in private industry in London. His self-rehabilitation enabled him to continue his judo practice. From his position on the International Judo Committee, he began to study judo scientifically, incorporating the knowledge that he had gained by self-rehabilitation. In 1949, he published the first book on his method, \"Body and Mature Behavior: A Study of Anxiety, Sex, Gravitation and Learning\". He studied the work of Gurdjieff, F. Matthias Alexander, Elsa Gindler and William Bates. He also traveled to Switzerland to study with Heinrich Jacoby.\nIn 1951, he returned to Israel. In 1954, after directing the IDF Department of Electronics for several years, he settled in Tel Aviv and began to teach his method full-time. In 1957, he met Mia Segal, who became his assistant and worked with him for thirty years. He also became the personal trainer of David Ben-Gurion, the Prime Minister of Israel, whom he taught to stand on his head in a yoga pose.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, 1970s, and the 1980, he presented his method in Europe and in North America (including an Awareness Through Movement program for human potential trainers at Esalen Institute in 1972). He trained the first group of 13 teachers in the method from 1969 to 1971 in Tel Aviv. Over the course of four summers, from 1975 to 1978, he trained 65 teachers in San Francisco at Lone Mountain College under the auspices of the Humanistic Psychology Institute. In 1980, 235 students began his summer teacher-training course at Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts. After becoming ill in the fall of 1981, after teaching two of the planned four summers, he stopped teaching publicly.\n\nThe Feldenkrais is intended to teach better posture and improve quality of life, by means of instruction and gentle manipulation of the body.\n\nIn 2015 the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance; the Feldenkrais Method was one of 17 therapies evaluated for which no clear evidence of effectiveness was found. The report notes that there is \"a paucity of evidence regarding the effectiveness of Feldenkrais for the improvement of health outcomes for any clinical condition\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4469040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4469040", "title": "Muhammad Alawi al-Maliki", "text": "Muhammad Alawi al-Maliki\n\nMuhammad Alawi al-Maliki (1944–2004) was a Sunni (Sufi) Islamic scholar from Saudi Arabia.\n\nMuhammad Alawi al-Maliki was born in Mecca to a family of well known scholars who, like himself, taught in the Sacred Mosque.\n\nWith his father’s instruction, he also studied and mastered the various traditional Islamic sciences of Aqidah (Islamic theology), Tafsir (Qur'anic exegesis), Hadith (Prophetic tradition), Seerah (Prophetic biography), Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence), Usul (origins and fundamentals), Mustalah (hadith terminology), Nahw (Arabic grammar), etc. Scholars of Mecca, as well as Medina, all of whom granted him full Ijazah (certification) to teach these sciences to others. Some of the scholars from whom he obtained \"ijazahs\" and chains of transmission from include: His father, Shaykh al-Sayyid 'Alawi ibn 'Abbas al-Maliki al-Hasani, Shaykh as-Sayyid al-Habib Ahmad Mashhur TaHa al-Haddad, Shaikh Hasanain Makhlouf, Shaykh Muhammad Hafidh al-Tijani, Shaykh Amin Kutbi, and numerous others.\n\nAfter finishing his traditional education in his hometown of Makkah, he was sent by his father to study at Al-Azhar University of Egypt. He received his Ph.D. from the Al-Azhar University at the age of 25, making him the first and youngest Saudi to earn a Ph.D. from there. His thesis on Hadith was rated excellent and highly praised by the eminent Ulama (Islamic scholar) of the university at that time, such as Muhammad Abu Zahra.\n\nBy the age of 15, al-Maliki started teaching Hadith and Fiqh in the Masjid al-Haram of Makkah to fellow students, by the orders of his teachers.\n\nHe taught a number of students at his own residence, providing them with food, shelter, and learning material free of cost. These students usually stayed with him for many years, learning the various branches of Islamic knowledge, then return to their lands. Hundreds of his students have become savants of Islamic knowledge and spirituality in their own countries, particularly Indonesia, Malaysia, Egypt, and Yemen. After returning from the Al-Azhar University he was an appointed professor of Sharia at the Umm al-Qura University in Mecca, where he taught from 1970. In 1971, after his father’s death, the scholars of Mecca asked him to accept his father’s position as a teacher in the Masjid al-Haram, which he did. Thus, he sat on the Chair from which his family had taught for more than century. He also taught in the Al-Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina occasionally. His lessons were the largest attended lessons in the Two Masjids. The entire family of Al-Maliki follows Shadhiliyah Sufi order and particularly Fassiya branch of it through Qutbul Ujood Imam Fassi who was leading the Sufi order from Makkah. Muhammad alawi al-Maliki took vow from Sheikh Dr. Muhammad bin Ibrahim al Fassi who was the Sheikh-us-Sujjadah and the international leader of the Fassiyatush Shadhiliya sufi order at his times.\n\nIn the early 1980s, he relinquished his teaching position in the Umm al-Qura University as well as his ancestral chair of teaching in the Masjid al-Haram, due to the Fatwās of the Council of the Senior Scholars of Saudi Arabia headed by Mufti Ibn Baaz, who considered his beliefs to be in violation of the purity of the Monotheistic belief (Tawhid). Shaykh Saalih Aal-Shaykh, the incumbent Minister of Islamic affairs authored a book entitled \"Haazihi Mafaahimuna\" [these are our views] in which he attacked the beliefs of the Sayyid, pronouncing him to be deviant and misguided. The book was in fact a rebuttal of Sayyid Al-Maliki's book: \"Mafaahim yajib An Tusahhah\" [Views that must be corrected].\n\nRegardless of criticisms against him, Maliki retained prominence. In an attempt to counter the Islamic revival in the early 1990s, the Government of Saudi Arabia began supporting practitioners of Sufism in the Hijaz region as a way to bolster religious support of the state; Maliki became the self-imposed leader of Hijazi Sufism under state sponsorship, with several thousand supporters.\n\nFrom that time until his death in 2004, he taught Hadith, Fiqh, Tafsir and Tasawwuf at his home and mosque on al-Maliki street in the Rusayfah district of Mecca, and his public lessons, between Maghrib and Isha', were attended by no less than 500 people daily. Many students from the University used to attend his lessons in the evenings. Even the night before he died, his lesson was well attended. Hundreds of students from all over the Islamic world benefited from his lessons in the Masjid al-Haram Makkah and many hold key religious positions in their lands today.\n\nHe was also nominated as the head judge at the international Qira'at (Qur'anic reading) competition in Mecca for three consecutive years.\n\nHe died in 2004 and was buried in Mecca. After his death, Saudi dignitaries made condolence visits to his family. Crown Prince 'Abd Allah (the future king) was quoted as stating that al-Maliki \"was faithful both to his religion and country\" as one western journalist noted, \"the rehabilitation of his legacy was almost complete.\" \n\nAl-Maliki has written on a variety of religious, legal, social and historical topics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18203534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18203534", "title": "Operation Cannonball", "text": "Operation Cannonball\n\nOperation Cannonball is an American Central Intelligence Agency operation that was disclosed in 2008. Beginning in 2006, it was intended as part of an effort to capture Osama Bin Laden and eliminate Al Qaeda forces in Pakistan. There was reportedly \"mounting frustration\" among Pentagon officials due to the ongoing delay and deployment of special forces units, as originally planned in the Cannonball program. The operation was reportedly hampered by conflicts between CIA offices, leading to large delays in the deployment of the program. Partially to blame for the presently failed deployment of the program was conflict among United States intelligence agencies, along with resources having been diverted to the War In Iraq.\n\nThe existence of the covert program, and its various internal conflicts, was revealed to the public by \"The New York Times\" on June 30, 2008. \"The New York Times\" article was said to be \"exposing highly classified Pentagon orders\".\n"}
{"id": "55855224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55855224", "title": "Pamela Wyndham, Lady Egremont", "text": "Pamela Wyndham, Lady Egremont\n\nPamela Wyndham, Lady Egremont (nee Wyndham-Quin, 29 April 1925 – 4 November 2013) was a British society hostess and traveller, who worked at Bletchley Park during the Second World War, before marrying her cousin John Wyndham, 1st Baron Egremont.\n\nShe was born Pamela Wyndham-Quin on 29 April 1925 at 66 Oxford Terrace, Paddington, London, the third and youngest daughter of Royal Navy Captain Valentine Maurice Wyndham-Quin (1890–1983), and his wife, Marjorie Elizabeth Wyndham-Quin, née Pretyman (1897–1969). Her father was the younger son of Windham Wyndham-Quin, 5th Earl of Dunraven and Mount-Earl, and her mother was the daughter of Ernest George Pretyman, a Conservative Party politician and MP, and a former civil lord of the Admiralty. She was educated at home by a long series of governesses, and had two older sisters, Ursula and Mollie.\n\nAt the start of the Second World War, Wyndham joined the Women's Royal Naval Service, who seconded her to Bletchley Park to \"work on secret decoding operations\", thanks to her abilities with foreign languages, and she was based nearby at Woburn Abbey. Near the end of the war, her father was appointed British naval attaché in Argentina, and she went with him.\n\nAfter her marriage in 1947, she became a well-known society beauty and hostess, principally at Petworth House.\n\nNot long after returning to the UK, she met John Wyndham, 1st Baron Egremont, her second cousin once removed, and a nephew to Charles Wyndham, 3rd Baron Leconfield. He was also heir to Petworth House, a 17th-century house with an extensive art collection which included 20 Turner paintings, as well as land in Sussex and Cumbria. He was not able to serve in the armed forces due to poor eyesight, and had spent the war working for Harold Macmillan, a connection that was to continue until his death in 1972.\n\nThey married in 1947, when he was employed in the Conservative Research Department, and resided in London until 1952, when Lord Leconfield died, and they moved into Petworth House. In 1963, her husband was created Lord Egremont in Macmillan's retirement honours list, reviving an old family title. In 1967, he became the 6th Baron Leconfield in 1967 (the title having passed rapidly through two uncles and onto his father). He died of cancer in 1972, aged 52.\n\nIn 1978, she handed over the running of Petworth to their elder son, Max Wyndham, 2nd Baron Egremont (also known as the author Max Egremont), and moved to the family estate of Cockermouth Castle in Cumbria, where she restored the interiors and rejuvenated the gardens, and kept her house in Pimlico, London.\n\nThey had two sons and a daughter, Carlyn Chisholm, Baroness Chisholm of Owlpen.\n\nShe died on 4 November 2013.\n"}
{"id": "34012182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34012182", "title": "Paul Ramírez", "text": "Paul Ramírez\n\nPaul Ramírez (30 July 1986 – 6 December 2011) was a Venezuelan footballer who played at both professional and international levels, as a striker.\n\nRamírez played professional club football in Venezuela, Argentina, Switzerland and Italy for Caracas, Juventud Antoniana, Bellinzona, Udinese, Ascoli, Maracaibo, Minervén and CIV.\n\nHe made one international appearance for Venezuela. He played for the Venezuela national under-20 football team, participating at the 2005 South American Youth Championship in Colombia.\n\nRamírez died of a stroke on 6 December 2011, aged 25.\n"}
{"id": "893056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893056", "title": "Pete Coors", "text": "Pete Coors\n\nPeter Hanson Coors (born September 20, 1946) is an American businessman and politician. He formerly served as the Chairman of the Molson Coors Brewing Company and Chairman of MillerCoors.\n\nPeter Coors was inducted into the Colorado Business Hall of Fame by Junior Achievement-Rocky Mountain and the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce in 2012.\n\nCoors was born in Golden, Colorado. He is the great-grandson of Adolph Coors, the brewing entrepreneur, and the son of Holly Coors (born Edith Holland Hanson) and Joseph Coors. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and then from Cornell University from which he received a degree in engineering. A member of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity, Coors was elected to the Sphinx Head Society during his final year at Cornell. He also received his MBA from the University of Denver in 1970.\n\nCoors has worked all of his life in various positions at his family's firm, the Coors Brewing Company.\n\nIn 1993, Coors became vice chairman and CEO of the company, and in 2002, he was named Chairman of Coors Brewing Company and Adolph Coors Company. In 2004, according to the \"Rocky Mountain News\", Coors \"made $332,402 in salary and a $296,917 bonus as chairman of Adolph Coors. He also received 125,000 stock options with a potential value of $13 million\". He stepped down temporarily from these positions in 2004 to run for the US Senate. After the 2005 merger with Molson, Coors became a Class A Director in the newly formed Molson Coors Brewing Company. \n\nOn May 7, 2018, Coors wrote an open letter criticizing the hostility toward “Big Beer,” i.e., large brewing companies, at a Craft Brewers Conference sponsored by the Brewers Association. “The leadership of the Brewers Association does a great disservice to the entire beer value chain by attempting to pit one part of the industry against another,” he charged.\n\nIn a May 14, 2018 opinion piece for the \"Wall Street Journal\", Coors urged President Trump, whom he respects, to put an end to the Midwest Premium, a “mysterious fee” added to aluminum orders in the U.S. “It is time to fix this mess and end the premium once and for all,” he wrote. “A private solution would be best — one crafted by producers, buyers, market makers and customers like Molson Coors. Let us forge a new deal on aluminum, to the benefit of a hundred million fans of the most American of beverages. President Trump, are you with us?”\n\nIn October 2006, he was appointed by the University of Colorado Hospital Board of Directors as chairman of the board for the new University of Colorado Hospital Foundation.\n\nHe has served on the boards of U.S. Bancorp, H. J. Heinz Company, HOBY (Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership) Colorado, and Energy Corp. of America. He is also involved in civic organizations such as the Denver Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America and the National Western Stock Show Association. He is also part of the ownership group of the Colorado Rockies. He is a member of the Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia. In 1997, Coors was granted an Honorary Doctorate from Johnson & Wales University, where he is a trustee. He sits on the Board of Trustees of the American Enterprise Institute.\n\nWhen U.S. Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell declared in 2004 that he was retiring, Coors announced his candidacy. His opponent in the Republican primary election was another conservative, former congressman Bob Schaffer. During their primary, the two candidates engaged in an ideological disagreement, with Schaffer attacking Coors because his company had provided benefits to the partners of its gay and lesbian employees, in addition to promoting its beer in gay bars. Coors defended himself by saying that he was opposed to same-sex marriage, and supported a constitutional amendment to ban it, although he noted that he supported civil unions for gay couples. According to the \"Rocky Mountain News\", Coors described his company's pro-LGBT practices as \"good business, separate from politics.\" He defeated Schaffer with 61% of the vote in the primary, with many analysts citing his high name recognition in the state as a primary factor. \n\nCoors faced Democrat and Colorado Attorney General Ken Salazar in the November 2004 election, but was defeated by a margin of 51% to 47%.\n\nAccording to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics (CPS), Coors gave his own campaign $1,213,657 and received individual donations of $60,550 from other Coors family members. He was mentioned as a possible contender in the 2008 Senate election.\n\nCoors has been described as “a major donor in Colorado politics.” In 2016, Coors donated $5,000 to Leadership Matters for America, a super PAC supporting the presidential candidacy of Donald Trump, and $5,000 to Right to Rise, which supported Jeb Bush.\n\nCoors is married to Marilyn Coors (born Grosso) and has six children.\n\nOn May 28, 2006, Coors was arrested by the Colorado State Patrol on suspicion of driving under the influence and registering a blood alcohol level higher than the legal limit (0.088). Coors commented on the incident, saying, \"I should have planned ahead for a ride. For years, I've advocated the responsible use of our company's products. That's still my message, and our company's message. I am sorry that I didn't follow it myself.\"\n\nOn August 25, 2006, Coors pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of driving while impaired. A judge sentenced Coors to 24 hours of community service and a suspended fine and ordered him to undergo alcohol education courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "78924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78924", "title": "Phalaris", "text": "Phalaris\n\nPhalaris () was the tyrant of Akragas (now Agrigento) in Sicily, from approximately 570 to 554 BC.\nPhalaris was entrusted with the building of the temple of Zeus Atabyrius in the citadel and took advantage of his position to make himself despot. Under his rule, Agrigentum seemed to have attained considerable prosperity. He supplied the city with water, adorned it with fine buildings, and strengthened it with walls. On the northern coast of the island, the people of Himera elected him general with absolute power, in spite of the warnings of the poet Stesichorus. According to the \"Suda\" he succeeded in making himself master of the whole of the island. He was at last overthrown in a general uprising headed by Telemachus, the ancestor of Theron of Acragas (tyrant c. 488–472 BC), and burned in his own brazen bull.\n\nPhalaris was renowned for his excessive cruelty. Among his alleged atrocities is cannibalism: he was said to have eaten suckling babies.\n\nIn his Brazen bull, said to have been invented by Perillos of Athens, the tyrant's victims were shut in and roasted alive by a fire kindled beneath while their shrieks represented the bellowing of the bull. Some scholars of the early 20th century proposed a connection between Phalaris' bull and the bull-images of Phoenician cults (cf. the Biblical golden calf), and hypothesized a continuation of Eastern human sacrifice practices. This idea has subsequently fallen out of favor.\n\nThe story of the bull cannot be dismissed as pure invention. Pindar, who lived less than a century afterwards, expressly associates this instrument of torture with the name of the tyrant. \n\nThere was certainly a brazen bull at Agrigentum that was carried off by the Carthaginians to Carthage. This is said to have been later taken by Scipio the Elder and restored to Agrigentum circa 200 BC. However, it is more likely that it was Scipio the Younger who returned this bull and other stolen works of art to the original Sicilian cities, after his total destruction of Carthage circa 146 BC, which ended the Third Punic War.\n\nSome four centuries after his death, Phalaris was the object of a literary reinvention whereby he came to be seen as a humane leader who was a patron of philosophy and literature. This new reputation was due to 1) a paradoxical defence of his character attributed to Lucian, and 2) to his supposed authorship of an epistolary corpus. In 1699, Richard Bentley published a famous \"Dissertation on the Epistles of Phalaris\" in which he proved the spuriousness of the epistles.\n\n"}
{"id": "47676576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47676576", "title": "Philip Cabaud", "text": "Philip Cabaud\n\nPhilip Cabaud is a wine maker in Houston, Texas, United States, who's hired a winemaker who has won high marks high marks from well-known wine reviewer, Robert Parker, after just a few short years in the business. After a career in the insurance industry, Philip and his wife, Bonnie Cabaud invested significantly in a new venture: a winery, Cabaud Wines, in 2009. As newcomers to the world of wine making, they sought the insights of Luc Morlet, a well known winemaker who has guided vintages for several well-known labels ranging from the Peter Michael Winery to the Staglin Family Vineyard. Their efforts won them prominence in the NorCal wine blog\". \n"}
{"id": "1642285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1642285", "title": "Saint Marcella", "text": "Saint Marcella\n\nMarcella (325–410) is a saint in the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodox Church. She is known primarily for her role in the founding of monasticism. After the death of her husband, she commenced a life of abstinence and many other women in Rome at the time followed suit. Most of what we know about Marcella is from the letters of Saint Jerome.\n\nGrowing up in Rome, Marcella was influenced by her pious mother, Albina, an educated woman of wealth and benevolence. Childhood memories centered around piety, and one in particular related to the patriarch of Alexandria, Athanasius, who lodged in her home during one of his many exiles. He may have taken special interest in her, thinking back to his own youthful practice of playing church. Athanasius interacted with his hosts on theological matters and recounted anecdotes of his own monastic life. His most spellbinding stories, however, were the miraculous tales of the desert monks. As a parting gift he left behind the first copy of his biography, \"Life of St. Anthony\".\n\nMarcella's wealth and beauty placed her at the center of fashionable Roman society. She married young, to a wealthy aristocrat, but seven months later he died. After her husband's early death, Marcella decided to devote the rest of her life to charity, prayer, and mortification of the flesh and was convinced that God was directing her to a life of poverty and service. She left behind her fashionable dresses for a coarse brown garment and abandoned her usual extravagant hair styling and makeup. Along with other women, Marcella formed a community known as the brown dress society, spending their time praying, singing, reading the Bible, and serving the needy. Her palatial home was now a refuge for weary pilgrims and for the poor.\n\nSummoned by Pope Damasus I (who arranged lodging at Marcella's hospitality house), Jerome arrived in Rome in 382. It was an exhilarating time for Marcella, a woman of letters who had immersed herself in both Greek and Hebrew, to be entertaining one of the great minds of the age. Jerome spent the next three years in what he called her \"domestic church,\" translating the Bible into Latin. She learned under his teaching even as she critiqued his translation. He spoke and wrote of her Christian devotion and scholarship and commended her influence on Pope Anastasius I — particularly in his condemning Origen's doctrines, which Jerome declared a \"glorious victory.\" Indeed, his admiration of Marcella was unbounded, not only for her intellectual acumen but also for her deference to men who might be threatened by her vast store of knowledge.\n\nMost of what we know about Marcella is from the letters of Jerome, most famously his letter 127 to Principia. It was written on the occasion of Marcella's death, paying tribute to her life and consoling her beloved student. In it, he says the following about his relationship with Marcella:\n\n\"As in those days my name was held in some renown as that of a student of the Scriptures, she never came to see me without asking me some questions about them, nor would she rest content at once, but on the contrary would dispute them; this, however, was not for the sake of argument, but to learn by questioning the answers to such objections might, as she saw, be raised. How much virtue and intellect, how much holiness and purity I found in her I am afraid to say, both lest I may exceed the bounds of men's belief and lest I may increase your sorrow by reminding you of the blessings you have lost. This only will I say, that whatever I had gathered together by long study, and by constant meditation made part of my nature, she tasted, she learned and made her own.\"\n\nMarcella was also known for her efforts to restrain Jerome from quarrelling with his opponents — or at least helping him control his legendary temper. Eleven of his extant letters are addressed to her, and she is mentioned in many of his other writings. In one of his letters he responded to her query about the truth of Montanism. Someone was apparently attempting to convert her, and she was deeply interested in what she is hearing, though suspecting that the claim that they possess a more authentic spirituality might have been false. Jerome writes a lengthy point-by-point refutation of the movement.\n\nIt was at the home of Marcella that Jerome first met Paula, a devoted and scholarly woman who would become his long-time intellectual counterpart. When Jerome returned to the Holy Land, Paula relocated there as well. They invited Marcella to join them, but she remained in Rome to oversee her growing house of virgins, where she was addressed as Mother.\n\nThe Goths, led by Alaric, pillaged Rome in 410. Gothic soldiers stormed Marcella's residence, demanding she relinquish her hidden jewels and wealth, which long before had been sold to fund her charitable work. Marcella and her pupil, Principia, went to the church of St. Paul, which had been set up as a sanctuary by Alaric. She died the next day.\n\nHer Aventine Hill palace became a center of Christian activity. She was an associate of Paula. Her feast day in the west is January 31. Jerome's \"To Principia\" is a biography of her life.\n\nThe artwork \"The Dinner Party\" features a place setting for Marcella.\n\n"}
{"id": "11762787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11762787", "title": "Salamu Mezhidov", "text": "Salamu Mezhidov\n\nSalamu Sultanovich Mezhidov (; born 10 February 1981 in Argun, Chechnya) is a Russian judoka.\n"}
{"id": "30872618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872618", "title": "Sister Lúcia", "text": "Sister Lúcia\n\nLúcia de Jesus Rosa dos Santos, O.C.D. (March 28, 1907 – February 13, 2005), also known as Lúcia of Fátima and by her religious name Sister Maria Lúcia of Jesus and of the Immaculate Heart, was a Portuguese Catholic Carmelite nun and one of the three children, including her cousins, Francisco and Jacinta Marto, who claimed to witness Marian apparitions in Fátima in 1917.\n\nLúcia was the youngest child of António dos Santos and Maria Rosa Ferreira (1869-1942), both from Aljustrel, who married on 19 November 1890. She had six brothers and sisters: Maria dos Anjos (1891-1986), Teresa de Jesus Rosa dos Santos, Manuel Rosa dos Santos (1895-1977), Glória de Jesus Rosa dos Santos (1898-1971), Carolina de Jesus Rosa dos Santos (1902-1992), Maria Rosa (died at birth). Although peasants, the Santos family was by no means poor, owning land \"in the direction of Montelo, Our Lady of Ortiga, Fátima, Valinhos, Cabeço, Charneca, and Cova da Iria.\"\n\nEven though Lúcia's birthday is registered as March 22, 1907, her actual date of birth is March 28. In those days it was required that parents bring their children for baptism on the eighth day after birth or face a fine, and, because March 30 was a more convenient day, the 22nd was chosen as her birthday. Lúcia later recalled that, at the time, no one attached much importance to one's birthday.\n\nLúcia's father António, by her report, was a hardworking and generous man. Lúcia remembered him telling fairy tales and singing folk songs, but he was also the one who first taught her to make the Sign of the Cross. Contrary to popular hagiographical accounts of the apparitions, he believed the children and there is some evidence that he conspired to make sure Lúcia got to the Cova for the visitations after her mother had forbidden it. Lúcia said that her father was not a particularly heavy drinker, but liked to socialize in the tavern. Because he did not like Fr. Ferreira, he went to church in a nearby town.\n\nMaria Rosa was literate, although she never taught her children to read. She had a taste for religious literature and storytelling. She gave catechism lessons to her children and the neighbor's children, if they were there, at siesta time during the summer and especially around Lent. During the winter, catechism lessons took place after supper and around the fire. According to her mother, Lúcia repeated everything that she heard \"like a parrot.\"\n\nFr. De Marchi described her features in the following manner: \"She was not a pretty child. The only attractions of her face — which was not on the whole repellent — were her two great black eyes which gazed out from under thick eyebrows. Her hair, thick and dark, was parted in the center over her shoulders. Her nose was rather flat, her lips thick and her mouth large.\"\n\nLúcia was a fabulous storyteller with a \"gift for narration.\" She had a talent for composing original songs, with catchy folk-style tunes and sacred and secular lyrics. Among the songs she invented as a small child are \"In Heaven, I'll Be With My Mother\", \"I Love God in Heaven\", and \"Lady of Carmel\". She set to music the words of the brief prayer she said had been taught to her and her cousins by an angel; \"O God, I believe, I adore...\" She also wrote a poem about Jacinta which appears in her memoirs.\n\nLúcia's First Communion occurred at six years of age despite ten being the usual minimum. Initially, the parish priest refused because of her young age. However, Fr. Cruz, a Jesuit missionary visiting from Lisbon, interviewed Lúcia after finding her in tears that day and concluded that \"she understands what she's doing better than many of the others.\" Because of this intervention, the parish priest admitted Lúcia to Holy Communion. After her First Confession she prayed before the altar of Our Lady of the Rosary and saw the statue smile at her. Upon receiving the Eucharist, Lúcia felt \"bathed in such a supernatural atmosphere that the presence of our dear Lord became as clearly perceptible to me as if I had seen and heard Him with my bodily senses.\" Lúcia's First Communion left a deep impact on her. \"I lost the taste and attraction for the things of the world, and only felt at home in some solitary place where, all alone, I could recall the delights of my First Communion.\"\n\nBy eight years of age she was tending the family's sheep, accompanied by other boys and girls of the village.\n\nBetween May and October 1917, Lúcia and her cousins Jacinta and Francisco Marto reported visions of a luminous lady, who they believed to be the Virgin Mary, in the Cova da Iria fields outside the hamlet of Aljustrel, near Fátima, Portugal. The children said the visitations took place on the 13th day of each month at approximately noon, for six straight months. The only exception was August, when the children were detained by the local administrator. That month they did not report a vision of the Lady until after they were released from jail, two days later.\n\nAccording to Lúcia's accounts, the lady told the children to do penance and to make sacrifices to save sinners. Lúcia said that the lady stressed the importance of saying the Rosary every day, to bring peace to the world. Many young Portuguese men, including relatives of the visionaries, were then fighting in World War I. Lúcia heard Mary ask her to learn to read and write because Jesus wanted to employ her to convey messages to the world about Mary, particularly the Immaculate Heart of Mary.\n\nLúcia's mother did not take kindly to the news that her youngest daughter was having visitations, believing that Lúcia was simply making up lies for attention. Heretofore the favorite, Lúcia suffered beatings and ridicule from her mother. She was especially incredulous of the idea that Lúcia had been asked to learn to read and write.\n\nOn July 13, 1917, around noon, the lady is said to have entrusted the children with three secrets. Two of the secrets were revealed in 1941 in a document written by Lúcia, at the request of the Bishop of Leiria, José Alves Correia da Silva, partly to assist with the publication of a new edition of a book on Jacinta.\n\nOn January 25, 1938, a massive aurora borealis, described variously as \"a curtain of fire\" and a \"huge blood-red beam of light,\" appeared in the skies over Europe and was visible as far away as Gibraltar and even parts of the United States. Lúcia believed this event was the \"night illuminated by a strange light in the sky\" which she had heard Mary speak about as part of the Second Secret, predicting the events which would lead to the Second World War and requesting Acts of Reparation including the First Saturday Devotions, along with the Consecration of Russia.\n\nWhen asked by José Alves Correia da Silva, Bishop of Leiria in 1943 to reveal the third secret, Lúcia struggled for a short period, being \"not yet convinced that God had clearly authorized her to act.\" She was under strict obedience in accordance with her Carmelite life, and conflicted as to whether she should obey her superiors, or the personal orders she had heard from Mary. However, in October 1943 she fell ill with influenza and pleurisy, the same illness which had killed her cousins, and for a time believed she was about to die. Bishop Da Silva then ordered her to put the third secret in writing. Lúcia then wrote down the secret and sealed it in an envelope not to be opened until 1960.\n\nShe designated 1960 because she thought that \"by then it will appear clearer.\" The text of the third secret was officially released by Pope John Paul II in 2000.\nThe Vatican described the secret as a vision of the 1981 assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II.\n\nThe visions increasingly received wide publicity, and an estimated seventy thousand witnesses were reportedly present for the sixth and final apparition. Lúcia had promised for several months that the lady would perform a miracle on that day \"so that all may believe.\" Witnesses present in the Cova da Iria that day, as well as some up to away, reported that the sun appeared to change colors and rotate, like a fire wheel, casting off multicolored light across the landscape. The sun appeared to plunge towards the earth, frightening many into believing that it was the end of the world. Others suggested they had merely witnessed an eclipse. The popular expression, according to the \"O Século\" reporter Avelino de Almeida, was that the sun \"danced.\" The event became known as the Miracle of the Sun. The episode was widely reported by the Portuguese secular media. Some coverage appeared in a small article in the \"New York Times\" on October 17, 1917. Lúcia reported that day that the Lady identified herself as \"Our Lady of the Rosary.\" She thereafter also became known as Our Lady of Fátima.\n\nOn behalf of the Catholic Church, Bishop Da Silva approved the visions as \"worthy of belief\" on October 13, 1930.\n\nLúcia moved to Porto in 1921, and at 14 was admitted as a boarder in the school of the Sisters of St. Dorothy in Vilar, on the city's outskirts. On October 24, 1925, she entered the Institute of the Sisters of St. Dorothy as a postulant in the convent in Tui, Pontevedra, Spain, just across the northern Portuguese border. Lúcia professed her first vows on October 3, 1928, and her perpetual vows on October 3, 1934, receiving the name \"Sister María das Dores\" (Mary of the Sorrows).\n\nShe returned to Portugal in 1946 (where she visited Fátima incognito) and in March 1948, after receiving special papal permission to be relieved of her perpetual vows, entered the Carmelite convent of Santa Teresa in Coimbra, where she resided until her death. She made her profession as a Discalced Carmelite on May 31, 1949, taking the religious name Sister Maria Lúcia of Jesus and the Immaculate Heart.\n\nBecause of the Constitutions of the community, Lúcia was expected to \"converse as little as possible with persons from without, even with their nearest relatives, unless their conversation be spiritual, and even then it should be very seldom and as brief as possible\" and \"have nothing to do with worldly affairs, nor speak of them...\". This has led some people, such as Fr. Gruner of the Fátima Crusaders, to believe in a conspiracy to cover up the Fátima message and silence Lúcia.\n\nShe came back to Fátima on the occasion of four papal pilgrimages—all on May 13—firstly by Paul VI in 1967, and John Paul II in 1982 (in thanksgiving for surviving an assassination attempt the previous year), 1991, and 2000, when her cousins Jacinta and Francisco were beatified. On May 16, 2000, she unexpectedly returned to Fátima to visit the parish church.\n\nSister Lúcia wrote six memoirs during her lifetime. The first four were written between 1935 and 1941, and the English translation is published under the name \"Fatima in Lucia's Own Words\". The fifth and six memoirs, written in 1989 and 1993, are published in English under the name \"Fatima in Lucia's Own Words II\". These latter books were written in her own handwriting.\n\nAn additional book was published in 2001, variously known as \"Calls from the Message of Fatima\" and \"Appeals from the Message of Fatima\", as announced by the Vatican on December 5, 2001.\n\nSister Lúcia also wrote numerous letters to clergy and devout laypeople who were curious about the Third Secret of Fátima and about Lúcia's interpretation of what she had heard Virgin Mary request. Two letters she supposedly wrote concerned the Consecration of Russia, in which she said Our Lady's request had been fulfilled. These letters turned out to be false, primarily from the fact that the letters were typeset, and Sister Lucy always wrote on handwriting, and because it was inconsistent with her constant plea that the consecration of Russia was not done as Our Lady requested. Any and all material written by Sister Lúcia is now held for study by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints.\n\nSister Lúcia had been blind and deaf and ailing for some years prior to her death. She died at the Carmelite convent of Santa Teresa in Coimbra, where she had lived since 1948. The day of her funeral, Pope John Paul II and the future Pope Benedict XVI said that she would go to Heaven. February 15, 2005, was declared a day of national mourning in Portugal; even campaigning for the national parliamentary election scheduled for Sunday, February 20, was interrupted. Sister Lúcia was a registered voter, and her polling place visits were covered by the Portuguese press.\n\nOn February 13, 2008 (the third anniversary of her death), Pope Benedict XVI announced that in the case of Sister Lúcia he would waive the five-year waiting period established by ecclesiastical law before opening a cause for beatification; this rule was also dispensed in the causes for Mother Teresa of Calcutta and Pope John Paul II.\n\nOn February 13, 2017, Sister Lúcia was accorded the title Servant of God, as the first major step toward her canonization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34268139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34268139", "title": "Sumitro Djojohadikusumo", "text": "Sumitro Djojohadikusumo\n\nRaden Mas Sumitro Djojohadikusumo (sometimes spelt \"Soemitro Djojohadikoesoemo\") (29 May 1917 – 9 March 2001) was one of Indonesia's most prominent economists. During his lifetime Sumitro held several prominent roles including the Dean of the Faculty of Economics at the University of Indonesia.\n\nSumitro was born in Kebumen, Central Java, on May 29, 1917, the eldest son in an aristocratic Javanese family. Soemitro was the son of Margono Djojohadikusumo, the founder of Bank Negara Indonesia and the first head of the Temporary Grand Advisory Council (\"Dewan Pertimbangan Agung Sementara\", DPAS) and member of the \"Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence\" (\"Badan Penyelidik Usaha Persiapan Kemerdekaan\", or BPUPK). He spent his childhood in Java before moving to Europe, where he received his academic training, first at the prestigious Sorbonne University in Paris and later at Economische Hogeschool (the College of Economics) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.\n\nHe first won recognition as an economist at the age of 29, serving as an adviser to the Dutch delegation attending the United Nations Security Council meeting in London in 1946.\n\nSumitro married Dora Marie Sigar, born in North Sulawesi in 1921, on 7 January 1946 in Germany. They had 4 children: \nTheir first daughter, Bianti, is married to J. Soedradjad Djiwandono, another Indonesian economist and former Governor of Bank Indonesia, while Prabowo was married to Siti Hediati Hariyadi, the fourth child of then-President of Indonesia Suharto from 1983 to 1998.\n\nHis wife, Dora, outlived him, dying in Singapore on 23 December 2008.\n\nIn March 1946 Sumitro returned to the newly independent Indonesia. He served in a series of successive governments, starting as an assistant to prime minister Sutan Sjahrir. In 1948 he was the deputy chief delegate representing Indonesia at the UN Security Council meeting at Lake Success, New York.\n\nFollowing Indonesia's international recognition in December 1949, Sumitro became chargé d'affaires at the Indonesian Embassy in Washington D.C., before becoming one of five experts assisting the UN secretary-general.\n\nSumitro went on to serve as the a Cabinet Minister for both Sukarno and Suharto.\n\nDuring the late 1950s Sumitro involved in the PRRI/Permesta rebellion during which disgruntled leaders in several provinces in Sumatra and Sulawesi declared secession from the central government in Jakarta. The movement was quickly crushed and Sumitro fled abroad.\n\nA brief summary of Sumitro's career is as follows:\n\n\nSumitro played a prominent role in the Faculty of Economics at the University of Indonesia (FEUI). Following Independence, Sumitro was the only Indonesian with a doctorate in economics. He invited foreign lecturers from the Netherlands and lecturers from other faculties to assist in educating the students in the FEUI. As tensions grew and Dutch professors were pushed out of their roles in the university, Sumitro recognized the need for more Indonesian economists. He asked the Ford Foundation to help support teaching in the Economics Faculty by sending a group of promising Indonesian students to the University of California, Berkeley to study economics. This group of students, who later became known as the \"Berkeley Mafia\", returned to Indonesia to serve in several high profile government positions and are credited as the architects of the modern Indonesian economy. The group included Widjojo Nitisastro, Mohammad Sadli, Emil Salim, Subroto, and Ali Wardhana.\nDespite his socialist views, Sumitro was asked to be one of the founders of the Indonesian Islamic University (Universitas Islam Indonesia, UII) in Yogyakarta. Without buildings, Sumitro and his colleagues taught their classes in a mosque.\n\nSumitro died on March 9, 2001, of heart failure.\n\n\n\nThee Kian Wie. 2001. 'In Memoriam: Professor Sumitro Djojohadikusumo, 1917-2001.' \"Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies\", 37(2), August, pp. 173-181.\n\n"}
{"id": "57208692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57208692", "title": "Suresh Bhattarai", "text": "Suresh Bhattarai\n\nSuresh Bhattarai is a Nepali Physicist, Astrophysicist who is a physics lecturer at the Department Of Physics at Tri-Chandra Multiple Campus and also is the Current Chairperson Of Nepal Astronomical Society (NASO). \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30704529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30704529", "title": "Vistahm", "text": "Vistahm\n\nBistam or Vistahm (also transliterated Wistaxm, ), was a Parthian dynast of the Ispahbudhan house, and maternal uncle of the Sasanian \"shah\" of Persia, Khosrow II (reigned 591–628). Vistahm helped Khosrow regain his throne after the rebellion of Bahram Chobin, but later led a revolt himself, which encompassed the entire Iranian East before being suppressed.\n\nVistahm and his brother Vinduyih were sons of Shapur and grandsons of Bawi. They belonged to the Ispahbudhan, one of the seven Parthian clans that formed the elite aristocracy of the Sasanian Empire. The Ispahbudhan in particular enjoyed such a high status that they were acknowledged as \"kin and partners of the Sasanians\". The family also held the important position of \"spahbed\" of the West, i.e. the Sasanian Empire's southwestern regions (the Sawad). A sister of Vistahm had even married the Sasanian shah Hormizd IV (r. 579–590), and was the mother of Hormizd's heir, Khosrow II.\n\nNevertheless, the family suffered, along with the other aristocratic clans, during the persecutions launched by Hormizd IV in his later years: Shapur was murdered, and Vistahm succeeded his father as \"spahbed\" of the West. Finally, Hormizd's persecutions led to the revolt of the general Bahram Chobin in 590. Bahram, whose revolt quickly attracted widespread support, marched on the capital, Ctesiphon. There Hormizd tried to sideline the two Ispahbudhan, but was dissuaded, according to Sebeos, by his son, Khosrow II. Vinduyih was imprisoned, but Vistahm apparently fled the court; soon after, however, the two brothers appear as the leaders of a palace coup that deposed, blinded and killed Hormizd, raising his son Khosrow to the throne. Unable to oppose Bahram's march on Ctesiphon, however, Khosrow and the two brothers fled to Azerbaijan. Vistahm remained behind to rally troops, while Vinduyih escorted Khosrow to seek aid from the East Romans. On their way, they were overtaken by Bahram's troops, but Vinduyih, pretending to his nephew, allowed himself to be captured to ensure Khosrow's escape. In early 591 Khosrow returned with military aid from the East Romans, and was joined by 12,000 Armenian cavalry and 8,000 troops from Azerbaijan raised by Vistahm. In the Battle of Blarathon, Bahram's army suffered a crushing defeat, and Khosrow II reclaimed Ctesiphon and his throne.\n\nAfter his victory, Khosrow rewarded his uncles with high positions: Vinduyih became treasurer and first minister and Vistahm received the post of \"spahbed\" of the East, encompassing Tabaristan and Khorasan, which according to Sebeos was also the traditional homeland of the Ispahbudhan. Soon, however, Khosrow changed his intentions: trying to disassociate himself from his father's murder, the \"shah\" decided to execute his uncles. The Sasanian monarchs' traditional mistrust of over-powerful magnates and Khosrow's personal resentment of Vinduyih's patronising manner certainly contributed to this decision. Vinduyih was soon put to death, according to a Syriac source captured while trying to flee to his brother in the East.\nAt the news of his brother's murder, Vistahm rose in open revolt. According to Dinawari, Vistahm sent a letter to Khosrow announcing his claim to the throne through his Parthian (Arsacid) heritage: \"You are not worthier to rule than I am. Indeed, I am more deserving on account of my descent from Darius, son of Darius, who fought Alexander. You Sasanians deceitfully gained superiority over us [the Arsacids] and usurped our right, and treated us with injustice. Your ancestor Sasan was no more than a shepherd.\" Vistahm's revolt, like Bahrams's shortly before, found support and spread quickly. Local magnates as well as the remnants of Bahram Chobin's armies flocked to him, especially after he married Bahram's sister Gordiya. Vistahm repelled several loyalist efforts to subdue him, and he soon held sway in the entire eastern and northern quadrants of the Persian realm, a domain stretching from the Oxus river to the region of Ardabil in the west. He even campaigned in the east, where he subdued two Hephthalite princes of Transoxiana, Shaug and Pariowk. The date of Vistahm's uprising is uncertain. From his coinage, it is known that his rebellion lasted for seven years. The commonly accepted dates are ca. 590–596, but some scholars like J.D. Howard–Johnston and P. Pourshariati push its outbreak later, in 594/5, to coincide with the Armenian Vahewuni rebellion.\n\nAs Vistahm began to threaten Media, Khosrow sent several armies against his uncle, but failed to achieve a decisive result: Vistahm and his followers retreated to the mountainous region of Gilan, while several Armenian contingents of the royal army rebelled and defected to Vistahm. Finally, Khosrow called upon the services of the Armenian Smbat Bagratuni, who engaged Vistahm near Qumis. During the battle, Vistahm was murdered by Pariowk at Khosrow's urging (or, according to an alternative account, by his wife Gordiya). Nevertheless, Vistahm's troops managed to repel the royal army at Qumis, and it required another expedition by Smbat in the next year to finally end the rebellion.\n\nFarrukh Hormizd replaced Vistahm as the Spahbed of the East.\n\nDespite Vistahm's rebellion and death, the power of the Ispahbudhan family was too great to be broken. Indeed, one of Vinduyih's sons was instrumental in the trial of Khosrow II after his deposition in 628, and two of the sons of Vistahm, Vinduyih and Tiruyih, along with their cousin Narsi, were commanders in the Persian army that confronted the Muslim Arabs in 634.\n\nThe town of Bastam in Iran may derive its name from Vistahm, as well as the monumental site of Taq-e Bostan.\n\n"}
{"id": "9453528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9453528", "title": "Yaocomico", "text": "Yaocomico\n\nThe Yaocomico, or Yaocomaco, were an Algonquian-speaking Native American group who lived along the north bank of the Potomac River near its confluence with the Chesapeake Bay in the 17th century. They were related to the Piscataway, the dominant nation north of the Potomac.\n\nThe settlers who arrived to found the English colony of Maryland purchased land for their first settlement from the Yaocomico. By the late-17th century, the tribe had disappeared from the historical record. Historians believe this was mostly due to epidemics of newly introduced infectious disease and to pressure from European settlers and other Native groups.\n\nThe Yaocomaco were one of the Algonquian-speaking groups, who lived mostly in the coastal tidewater areas of present-day Maryland. The Piscataway were dominant to the north of the Potomac River, but there were many smaller tribes such as the Yaocomaco. Maryland also had Iroquoian-speaking tribes, particularly the Susquehannock along the Susquehanna River, who had been raiding into Algonquian territory. There were also Siouan-speaking tribes to the west and southwest.\n\nAccording to historical tradition, the first settlers of the Maryland colony purchased the land for their settlement at St. Mary's City from the Yaocomico, who had a settlement in the area. In 1634, Leonard Calvert, the first governor of the Maryland colony, met the Yaocomico along the Potomac below the island the Europeans had named St. Clement's Island. Yaocomico is referred to in different sources as either the name of the natives living in the area or as the name of the leader of the village. It was a tribe. The colonists had previously encountered and traded with Natives further upriver and so had some experience with them. As a result of the meeting, the Yaocomico traded approximately of land for a variety of European-made metal tools and cloth. Apparently the Yaocomico were willing to relocate from this village, and it was an ideal place for European settlement, as it had already been cleared.\n\nFather Andrew White, a Jesuit missionary priest and early Maryland settler, described the Yaocomico in detail. They dressed in deerskin decorated with natural objects such as shells, animal teeth, and feathers. Their bodies were painted in different colors. They drew red and blue lines on their faces. The women wore tattoos on various parts of the body, and used manmade beads to adorn their bodies and clothing. White claimed the Yaocomico were such skilled archers that they could throw a stick in the air and hit it with an arrow before it hit the ground. The Yaocomico had a loose structure of government and generally peaceful relations with other Algonquin groups.\n\nThey cultivated the staple crops of the woodland natives, varieties of corn, beans, and squash. In addition, they gathered foods, fished and hunted in the rich coastal environment. The first European settlers described a number of Native celebrations throughout the year, often involving feasting and music. Their instruments were made from readily available materials and included rattles, drums, and flutes.\n\nEuropean accounts claimed the Yaocomico were ready to sell the land to the Maryland colonists because they were being threatened by Iroquoian-speaking tribes from the north, specifically the Susquehannock and Seneca, the latter part of the Iroquois Confederacy. Despite relations with the Piscataway and the larger Powhatan Confederacy to the south, the Yaocomico had apparently decided to abandon the area before the arrival of Europeans. Both the Yaocomico and their neighbors had been raided repeatedly by groups of Susquehannock warriors based further up the Chesapeake, along what the settlers named the Susquehanna River. Such raids had pushed most Algonquian Natives out of the lands along the upper Chesapeake Bay, concentrating them in the south, where they encountered English settlers. The Yaocomico sought to use the new settlers as buffers against the Susquehannock.\n\nAbout half the Yaocomico left the site of St. Mary's City immediately. The other half left after a year, to allow them to maintain and harvest their crops. In the interim, the Yaocomico proved an invaluable resource to the settlers, teaching them how to survive in the new world. The Europeans, in return, wrote favorably of the Yaocomico. Jesuit priests arriving with the first colonists attempted to convert the Natives to Catholicism. They also continued to trade or share some European goods with the natives.\n\nThe Maryland settlers continued to maintain good relations with the Yaocomico through the next few decades. They included provisions to protect them in treaties with neighboring tribes. But, the Yaocomico disappeared by the 1670s or 1680s. Historians now believe that Eurasian infectious diseases carried by the English were the most likely cause. The Natives had no immunity to such diseases, by then endemic among European populations. There was also continuing encroachment and competition by settlers or other native groups.\n\nModern St. Mary's City includes a mock-up of the original Yaocomico village. The village shows Algonquian-style longhouses as they would have appeared to the first European settlers.\n"}
