{"id": "6675542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6675542", "title": "AOL search data leak", "text": "AOL search data leak\n\nThe AOL search data leak was the release, in August 2006, of detailed search logs by AOL of a large number of AOL users. The release was intentional and intended for research purposes; however, the public release meant that the entire Internet could see the results rather than a select number of academics. AOL did not identify users in the report, but personally identifiable information was present in many of the queries. This allowed some users to be identified by their search queries, prominently a woman named Thelma Arnold.\n\nOn August 4, 2006, AOL Research, headed by Dr. Abdur Chowdhury, released a compressed text file on one of its websites containing twenty million search keywords for over 650,000 users over a 3-month period intended for research purposes. AOL deleted the search data on their site by August 7, but not before it had been mirrored and distributed on the Internet.\n\nAOL did not identify users in the report; however, personally identifiable information was present in many of the queries. As the queries were attributed by AOL to particular user numerically identified accounts, an individual could be identified and matched to their account and search history by such information.\n\"The New York Times\" was able to locate an individual from the released and anonymized search records by cross referencing them with phonebook listings.\nConsequently, the ethical implications of using this data for research are under debate.\n\nAOL acknowledged it was a mistake and removed the data; however, the removal was too late. The data was redistributed by others and can still be downloaded from mirror sites.\n\nIn January 2007, Business 2.0 Magazine on CNNMoney ranked the release of the search data #57 in a segment called \"101 Dumbest Moments in Business.\"\n\nIn September 2006, a class action lawsuit was filed against AOL in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.\n\nAlthough the searchers were only identified by a numeric ID, some people's search results have become notable for various reasons.\n\nThrough clues revealed in the search queries, \"The New York Times\" successfully uncovered the identities of several searchers. With her permission, they exposed user #4417749 as Thelma Arnold, a 62-year-old widow from Lilburn, Georgia. This privacy breach was widely reported, and led to the resignation of AOL's CTO, Maureen Govern, on August 21, 2006. The media quoted an insider as saying that two employees had been fired: the researcher who released the data, and his immediate supervisor, who reported to Govern.\n\nOne product of the AOL scandal was the proliferation of blog entries examining the exposed data. Certain users' search logs were identified as humorous, disturbing, or even dangerous.\n\nConsumer watchdog website \"The Consumerist\" posted a blog entry by editor Ben Popken identifying the anonymous user number 927 as having an especially bizarre and macabre search history.\nThe blog posting has since been viewed nearly 4,000 times and referenced on a number of other high-profile sites. In addition to sparking the interest of the Internet community, User 927 inspired a theatrical production, written by Katharine Clark Gray in Philadelphia. The play, also named \"User 927\", has since been cited on several of the same blogs that originally discovered the real user's existence. As time has passed, more artistic renderings of individual user logs have appeared. A series of movies on the web site Minimovies called \"I Love Alaska\" puts voice and imagery to User 711391 which the authors have labeled as \"an episodic documentary\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1621333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621333", "title": "Against Method", "text": "Against Method\n\nAgainst Method: Outline of an Anarchist Theory of Knowledge is a 1975 book about the philosophy of science by Paul Feyerabend, in which the author argues that science is an anarchic enterprise, not a nomic (customary) one. In the context of this work, the term anarchy refers to epistemological anarchy.\n\nFeyerabend divides his argument into an abstract critique followed by a number of historical case studies.\n\nThe abstract critique is a reductio ad absurdum of methodological monism (the belief that only a single methodology can produce scientific progress). Feyerabend goes on to identify four features of methodological monism: the principle of falsification, a demand for increased empirical content, the forbidding of ad hoc hypotheses and the consistency condition. He then demonstrates that these features imply that science could not progress, hence an absurdity for proponents of the scientific method.\n\nThe historical case studies also act as a reductio. Feyerabend takes the premise that Galileo's advancing of a heliocentric cosmology was an example of scientific progress. He then demonstrates that Galileo did not adhere to the conditions of methodological monism. Feyerabend also argues that, if Galileo had adhered to the conditions of methodological monism, then he could not have advanced a heliocentric cosmology. This implies that scientific progress would have been impaired by methodological monism. Again, an absurdity for proponents of the scientific method.\n\nFeyerabend summarises his reductios with the phrase \"anything goes\". This is his sarcastic imitation of \"the terrified reaction of a rationalist who takes a closer look at history\".\n\nSome have seen the publication of \"Against Method\" as leading to Feyerabend's isolation from the community of philosophers of science, who objected to his view that there is no such thing as the scientific method.\n\nThe first edition of \"Against Method\" went through several reprintings until the revised (second) edition came out in 1988. A further revision produced a third edition in 1993. The most recent edition, the fourth, was published by Verso Books, in 2010, with a new introduction by Ian Hacking.\n\nA French translation by Baudouin Jurdant and Agnes Schlumberger was published by Éditions du Seuil in 1979, as \"Contre la méthode : esquisse d'une théorie anarchiste de la connaissance\". \n\nThe German translation by Hermann Vetter was abridged and reworked by Feyerabend, whose native language was German. It was published by Suhrkamp Verlag in 1983 as \"Wider den Methodenzwang. Skizzen einer anarchistischen Erkenntnistheorie\". This translation went into a paperback edition in 1986, as part of the \"suhrkamp taschenbuch wissenschaft\" series, and has been reprinted several times.\n\nA Dutch translation by Hein Kray was published by Boom in 1977, with the title \"In strijd met de methode\". In 2008 a new translation by Marjolijn Stoltenkamp was published, as \"Tegen de methode\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6994592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6994592", "title": "Alon Ben-Meir", "text": "Alon Ben-Meir\n\nAlon Ben-Meir (born 1937) is an American expert on Middle East politics and affairs, specializing in peace negotiations between Israel and the Arab states. For the past twenty five years, Ben-Meir has been directly involved in various Track II diplomatic negotiations and is a staunch advocate of the Arab Peace Initiative. He operates regularly as a liaison between Arab, Turkish, and Israeli officials. Also, Ben-Meir serves as senior fellow at New York University's Center for Global Affairs where he has taught courses on the Middle East and international negotiations for 18 years, and he is the Middle East Project Director at the World Policy Institute. He hosts \"Global Leaders: Conversations with Alon Ben-Meir,\" a series of debates and conversations with top policy-makers around the world at NYU. He also regularly holds briefings at the US State Department for international visitors.\nBen-Meir writes weekly articles, including a syndicated column in the Jerusalem Post. His articles appear in various newspapers, magazines and websites including, but not limited to: the Middle East Times, the Christian Science Monitor, Le Monde, American Chronicle, the Political Quarterly, Israel Policy Forum, Gulf Times, the Week, the Peninsula, the Jerusalem Post, the World Policy Journal, and Hurriyet. He also makes regular television and radio appearances, and has been featured on networks such as CNN, FOX, PBS, ABC, Al-Jazeera (English and Arabic), Al-Arabiya, Press TV Iran, NPR and Russia Today. He has authored seven books related to Middle East policy and is currently working on a book about the psychological dimensions of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.\n\nOften accused of being overly optimistic in his views, notably concerning the Arab-Israeli conflict, Ben-Meir has responded, \"There is enough pessimism, pain, and disdain, and I do not choose to add my voice to the chorus of doom.…..I envision a Middle East with Arabs and Jews working and living together to achieve greatness perhaps unknown in human experience. Together, they will usher in a renaissance that will spread its light from sea to sea.\"\n\nBen-Meir was born in 1937 to a Jewish family in Baghdad, Iraq.\n\nBen-Meir received his bachelor's degree in journalism at Tel Aviv University, Israel. In addition, at Queen’s College in Oxford University, United Kingdom, he obtained his master's degree in philosophy and his Ph.D. in international relations. He is fluent in English, Arabic and Hebrew.\n\nBen-Meir is a Senior Fellow of International Relations and Middle Eastern studies at New York University’s Center for Global Affairs. Ben-Meir has taught courses in International Negotiation, Peacemaking and Conflict Resolution, Terrorism and Ethnic Conflict, International Relations in the Post-World War II Era, American Hegemony in the Balance, Ethic in International Affairs, and Middle Eastern studies. Additionally, until 2007, Ben-Meir taught courses at New School University in International Negotiations, Conflict Resolution, History of the Middle East, History and the Struggle of the Middle East from Early 1900 to the Present, Forces Shaping the New World Order, the Middle East in the 21st Century, and American Hegemony in the Balance.\n\nThe Global Leaders series events offer the public an opportunity to engage with top policy-makers, officials, and influential thinkers from around the world in an intimate and informal setting. In these sessions, which attract crowds from academia, media, and the general public, Ben-Meir and distinguished guests discuss critical issues facing the international community.\n\nBen-Meir's guests have included: Turki bin Faisal Al Saud of Saudi Arabia; ambassador Hussein Hassouna of the Arab League; ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad of the U.S. to the United Nations; Ambassador John Bruton, Head of EU Commission to the US; Prince Zeid bin Ra'ad, ambassador of Jordan; Ambassor Urs Ziswiler of Switzerland; ambassador Naser Al Belooshi of Bahrain; ambassador Hamid Al Bayati, PR of Iraq to the United Nations; ambassador Imad Moustapha of Syria; Egyptian ambassador Nabil Fahmy to the U.S.; Turkish ambassador Namik Tan; ambassador Gérard Araud, PR of France to the UN; ambassador Gabriela Shalev of Israel to the UN; ambassador Bashar Jaafari, PR of Syria to the UN; ambassador Khalid al-Nafisee, former PR of Saudi Arabia to the UN; ambassador Riyad Mansour, Permanent Observer of Palestine to the United Nations; and president Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia.\n\nBen-Meir is a passionate proponent of the Arab Peace Initiative (API), which aims to create a lasting Israeli-Palestinian peace. In early 2007, he launched a comprehensive campaign to promote the goals and ideas of the Initiative. He frequently speaks at international conferences, dedicates much of his writing to API matters and regularly meets with policy makers from around the world to find allies in an effort to push forward the plan laid out in the API.\n\nBen-Meir regularly engages in Track II diplomacy to enable negotiations between Israeli, Arab, and Turkish officials to achieve greater peace and prosperity. Also, he has actively participated in Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, and he remains a committed and engaged advocate of the Arab Peace Initiative.\n\nBen-Meir founded the Center for Strategic Development. The center dedicates a large part of its work to the promotion of the Arab Peace Initiative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7380180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7380180", "title": "Ambulance chasing", "text": "Ambulance chasing\n\nAmbulance chasing, sometimes known as barratry, is a professional slur which refers to a lawyer soliciting for clients at a disaster site. The term \"ambulance chasing\" comes from the stereotype of lawyers that follow ambulances to the emergency room to find clients. The phrase \"ambulance chaser\" is also used more loosely as a derogatory term for a personal injury lawyer.\n\nAmbulance chasing is prohibited in the United States. Such conduct violates Rule 7.3 of the American Bar Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct. Some bar associations strongly enforce rules against barratry. For example, the State Bar of California dispatches investigators to large-scale disaster scenes to discourage ambulance chasers, and to catch any who attempt to solicit business from disaster victims at the scene.\n\nAmbulance chasing is also illegal in Australia, in accordance with clauses 20 and 22 of the Legal Profession Regulation of 1987.\n\nIn the UK, Indicative Behaviour (IB) 8.5 of the Solicitors Regulation Authority Code of Conduct 2011 specifies that \"approaching people in the street, at ports of entry, in hospital or at the scene of an accident\" is to be taken as an indication of non-compliance with the SRA Principles. \n\n"}
{"id": "1189404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189404", "title": "American Philosophical Association", "text": "American Philosophical Association\n\nThe American Philosophical Association (APA) is the main professional organization for philosophers in the United States. Founded in 1900, its mission is to promote the exchange of ideas among philosophers, to encourage creative and scholarly activity in philosophy, to facilitate the professional work and teaching of philosophers, and to represent philosophy as a discipline.\n\nThe association has three divisions: Pacific, Central and Eastern. Each division organizes a large annual conference. The biggest of these is the Eastern Division Meeting, which usually attracts around 2,000 philosophers and takes place in a different East Coast city each December. The Eastern Division Meeting is also the United States' largest recruitment event for philosophy jobs, with numerous universities sending teams to interview candidates for academic posts. By tradition, the two evening receptions—the first of which features free beer and wine—are referred to as 'smokers'—a carry over from the days in which smoking was common. These events serve the dual purpose of informally continuing interviews and catching up with friends from across the country.\n\nThe presidency of a division of the American Philosophical Association is considered to be a professional honor. Recent presidents of the Eastern Division include Louise Antony, Sally Haslanger, Linda Martín Alcoff, Paul Guyer, Edward S. Casey, Daniel Dennett, Virginia Held, John Cooper, T. M. Scanlon, Stanley Cavell, Alexander Nehamas, Ernest Sosa, Jerry Fodor, Seyla Benhabib, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Christine Korsgaard, and Robert Nozick. Recent presidents of the Central Division include Steven Nadler, Margaret Atherton, Peter van Inwagen, Ted Cohen, Eleonore Stump, Karl Ameriks, Stephen Darwall, Marcia Baron, Allan Gibbard, Alvin Plantinga, Sally Sedgwick, Elliott Sober, Claudia Card and Lawrence Sklar. Recent presidents of the Pacific Division include Terence Parsons, John Martin Fischer, Alison Wylie, Calvin Normore, Jeffrie Murphy, Hubert Dreyfus, Richard Wollheim, and Paul Churchland.\n\nThe American Philosophical Association awards several prizes. A prominent example is the American Philosophical Association Book Prize (formerly known as the Matchette Foundation Book Prize, one of the oldest prizes in philosophy). It is awarded biannually to the best book published in the field over a two-year period by a \"younger scholar\" (defined as someone age 40 or younger at the time of publication or someone who received his or her Ph.D. 10 or fewer years before the time of publication). Awarded for the first time in 2000, the Book Prize is now awarded in odd years, alternating with the Article Prize awarded in even years. The APA Book Prize has been won by such figures as David Kellogg Lewis, Lawrence Sklar, Bas van Fraassen, Michael Friedman, Loran Lomasky, Paul Guyer, John Cooper, Ted Sider, and Michael Smith. Another of the most distinguished prizes is the Royce Lectures in the philosophy of mind, awarded to a distinguished philosopher every four years. They have been delivered by Robert Stalnaker, Jerry Fodor, Hilary Putnam, Sydney Shoemaker, Saul Kripke, and Elizabeth Anscombe. Another such prize is the Rockefeller Prize. The Rockefeller Prize ($1000) is awarded every two years for the best unpublished article length work in philosophy by a non-academically affiliated philosopher. The winner's work will be published in \"The Journal of Value Inquiry\" at the behest of the winner and the journal.\n\nWhile the APA serves as the main learned society for philosophy professors in North America, many other philosophy societies have sprung up to serve as venues for philosophers to specialize. \n\nNext to the APA, the second largest philosophic society is the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, which was created in 1962 by American philosophers who were interested in Continental philosophy, some of whom were dissatisfied with the analytic approach of the APA. Since then, however, many members of SPEP have participated extensively in the APA and have also served in leadership positions, including Linda Alcoff and Edward S. Casey.\n\n"}
{"id": "38113946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38113946", "title": "Andreas Urs Sommer", "text": "Andreas Urs Sommer\n\nAndreas Urs Sommer (born July 14, 1972) is a German philosopher of Swiss origin. He specializes in the history of philosophy and its theory, ethics, philosophy of religion, and Skepticism. His historical studies center on the philosophy of Enlightenment and Nietzsche, but they also deal with Kant, Max Weber, Pierre Bayle, Jonathan Edwards, and others.\n\nAndreas Urs Sommer studied philosophy, theology and German literature in Basel, Göttingen and Freiburg. He obtained his doctorate at Basel University in 1998, and received his \"Habilitation\" in Greifswald in 2004. He was a visiting research fellow at Princeton University in 1998/99 and a fellow at the University of London in 2000/01.\n\nIn 2008 Sommer became responsible for the \"Nietzsche-Kommentar\" of the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences. He was also appointed the director of the Friedrich-Nietzsche-Stiftung in Naumburg (Saale). In 2011 he became a professor for philosophy at the University of Freiburg.\n\nSommer also publishes in the field of numismatics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12251522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12251522", "title": "Antenor Orrego", "text": "Antenor Orrego\n\nAntenor Orrego Espinoza (22 May 1892 – 17 July 1960) was a Peruvian writer and political philosopher of Basque ancestry. He was a member of the American Popular Revolutionary Alliance (APRA). The Universidad Privada Antenor Orrego (Antenor Orrego Private University), founded in Trujillo, Peru in 1988, is named for him.\n\nAntenor Orrego was born in 1892 to José Asunción Orrego and Victoria Espinoza Villanueva in the Santa Cruz Province of the Cajamarca Region of Peru. He died in Lima, Peru in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "10188326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10188326", "title": "B-theory of time", "text": "B-theory of time\n\nThe B-theory of time is the name given to one of two positions regarding philosophy of time. B-theorists argue that the flow of time is an illusion, that the past, present and future are equally real, and that time is tenseless. This would mean that temporal becoming is not an objective feature of reality.\n\nB-theory is often drawn upon in theoretical physics, and in theories such as eternalism.\n\nThe labels, A-theory and B-theory, first coined by Richard Gale in 1966, are derived from the analysis of time and change developed by Cambridge philosopher J. M. E. McTaggart in \"The Unreality of Time\" (1908), in which events are ordered via a tensed A-series or a tenseless B-series. It is popularly assumed that the A theory represents time like an A-series, while the B theory represents time like a B-series. The terms A and B theory are sometimes used as synonyms to the terms presentism and eternalism, but arguably presentism does not represent time being like an A-series since it denies that there is a future and past in which events can be located.\n\nEvents (or \"times\"), McTaggart observed, may be characterized in two distinct, but related, ways. On the one hand they can be characterized as past, present or future, normally indicated in natural languages such as English by the verbal inflection of tenses or auxiliary adverbial modifiers. Alternatively events may be described as earlier than, simultaneous with, or later than others. Philosophers are divided as to whether the tensed or tenseless mode of expressing temporal fact is fundamental. Some philosophers have criticised hybrid theories, where one holds a tenseless view of time, but asserts that the present has special properties, as falling foul of McTaggart's paradox. For a thorough discussion of McTaggart's paradox, see R. D. Ingthorsson (2016).\n\nThe debate between A-theorists and B-theorists is a continuation of a metaphysical dispute reaching back to the ancient Greek philosophers Heraclitus and Parmenides. Parmenides thought that reality is timeless and unchanging. Heraclitus, in contrast, believed that the world is a process of ceaseless change or flux. Reality for Heraclitus is dynamic and ephemeral. Indeed, the world is so fleeting, according to Heraclitus, that it is impossible to step twice into the same river. The metaphysical issues that continue to divide A-theorists and B-theorists concern the reality of the past, the reality of the future, and the ontological status of the present.\n\nThe difference between A-theorists and B-theorists is often described as a dispute about temporal passage or 'becoming' and 'progressing'. B-theorists argue that this notion is purely psychological. Many A-theorists argue that in rejecting temporal 'becoming', B-theorists reject time's most vital and distinctive characteristic. It is common (though not universal) to identify A-theorists' views with belief in temporal passage. Another way to characterise the distinction revolves around what is known as the \"principle of temporal parity\", the thesis that contrary to what appears to be the case, all times really exist in parity. The A-theory (and especially presentism) denies that all times exist in parity, while the B-theory insists all times exist in parity.\n\nB-theorists such as D. H. Mellor and J. J. C. Smart wish to eliminate all talk of past, present and future in favour of a tenseless ordering of events, believing the past, present, and future to be equally real, opposing the idea that they are irreducible foundations of temporality. B-theorists also argue that the past, present, and future feature very differently in deliberation and reflection. For example, we remember the past and anticipate the future, but not vice versa. \nB-theorists maintain that the fact that we know much less about the future simply reflects an epistemological difference between the future and the past: the future is no less real than the past; we just know less about it.\n\nThe B-theory of time has received support from the physics community. This is likely due to its compatibility with physics and the fact that many theories such as special relativity, the ADD model, and brane cosmology, point to a theory of time similar to B-theory.\n\nIn special relativity, the relativity of simultaneity shows that there's no unique present, and that each point in the universe can have a different set of events that are in its present moment.\n\nMany of special relativity's now-proven counter-intuitive predictions, such as length contraction and time dilation, are a result of this.\nRelativity of simultaneity is often taken to imply eternalism (and hence a B-theory of time), where the present for different observers is a time slice of the four dimensional universe. This is demonstrated in the Rietdijk–Putnam argument and additionally in an advanced form of this argument called the Andromeda paradox, created by mathematical physicist Roger Penrose.\n\nIt is therefore common (though not universal), for B-theorists to be four-dimensionalists, that is, to believe that objects are extended in time as well as in space and therefore have temporal as well as spatial parts. This is sometimes called a time-slice ontology.\n\nIn 'Presentism and the Space-Time Manifold', Dean Zimmerman notes that A-theory is 'almost certainly a minority view among philosophers', while B-theory has 'achieved broad acceptance'; despite this there are still a number of philosophers who maintain opposition for B-theory.\n\nEarlier B-theorists argued that one could paraphrase tensed sentences (such as \"the sun is now shining\") into tenseless sentences (such as \"on September 28, the sun shines\") without loss of meaning. Later B-theorists argued that tenseless sentences could give the truth conditions of tensed sentences or their tokens. Quentin Smith states that \"now\" cannot be reduced to descriptions of dates and times, because all date and time descriptions, and therefore truth conditionals, are relative to certain events. Tensed sentences, on the other hand, do not have such truth conditionals. The B-theorist could argue that \"now\" is reducible to a token-reflexive phrase such as \"simultaneous with this utterance,\" yet Smith states that even such an argument fails to eliminate tense. One can think the statement \"I am not uttering anything now,\" and such a statement would be true. The statement \"I am not uttering anything simultaneous with this utterance\" is self-contradictory, and cannot be true even when one thinks the statement. Finally, while tensed statements can express token-independent truth values, no token-reflexive statement can do so (by definition of the term \"token-reflexive\"). Quentin Smith claims that current proponents of the B-theory argue that the inability to translate tensed sentences into tenseless sentences does not prove the A-theory of time.\n\nNoted logician and philosopher Arthur Prior (originator of tense logic) has also drawn a distinction between what he calls A-facts and B-facts. The latter are facts about tenseless relations, such as the fact that the year 2025 is 25 years later than the year 2000. The former are tensed facts, such as the Jurassic age being in the past, or the end of the universe being in the future. Prior asks the reader to imagine having a headache, and after the headache subsides, saying \"thank goodness that's over.\" Prior argues that the B-theory cannot make sense of this sentence. It seems bizarre to be thankful that a headache is earlier than one's utterance, anymore than being thankful that the headache is later than one's utterance. Indeed, most people who say \"thank goodness that's over\" are not even thinking of their own utterance. Therefore, when people say \"thank goodness that's over,\" they are thankful for an A-fact, and not a B-fact. Yet, A-facts are only possible on the A-theory of time. (See also: Further facts.)\n\nOpponents also charge the B-theory with being unable to explain persistence of objects. The two leading explanations for this phenomenon are endurantism and perdurantism. The former states that an object is wholly present at every moment of its existence. The latter states that objects are extended in time and therefore have temporal parts. Hales and Johnson explain endurantism as follows: \"something is an enduring object only if it is wholly present at each time in which it exists. An object is wholly present at a time if all of its parts co-exist at that time.\" Under endurantism, all objects must exist as wholes at each point in time. However, an object such as a rotting fruit will have the property of being not rotten one day and being rotten on another. On eternalism, and hence the B-theory, it seems that one is committed to two conflicting states for the same object. The spacetime (Minkowskian) interpretation of relativity adds an additional problem for endurantism under the B-theory. On the spacetime interpretation, an object may appear as a whole at its rest frame. On an inertial frame, however, that same object will have proper parts at different positions, and therefore will have different parts at different times. Hence, it will not exist as a whole at any point in time, contradicting the thesis of endurantism.\n\nOpponents will then charge perdurantism with having numerous difficulties of its own. First, it is controversial whether perdurantism can be formulated coherently. An object is defined as a collection of spatio-temporal parts, which are defined as pieces of a perduring object. If objects have temporal parts, this leads to difficulties. For example, the rotating discs argument asks the reader to imagine a world containing nothing more than a homogeneous spinning disk. Under endurantism, the same disc endures despite that it is rotating. The perdurantist supposedly has a difficult time explaining what it means for such a disk to have a determinate state of rotation. Temporal parts also seem to act unlike physical parts. A piece of chalk can be broken into two physical halves, but it seems nonsensical to talk about breaking it into two temporal halves. Chisholm argued that someone who hears the bird call \"Bob White\" knows \"that his experience of hearing 'Bob' and his experience of hearing 'White' were not also had by two other things, each distinct from himself and from each other. The endurantist can explain the experience as \"There exists an x such that x hears 'Bob' and then x hears 'White'\" but the perdurantist cannot give such an account. Peter van Inwagen asks the reader to consider Descartes as a four-dimensional object that extends from 1596–1650. If Descartes had lived a much shorter life, he would have had a radically different set of temporal parts. This diminished Descartes, he argues, could not have been the same person on perdurantism, since their temporal extents and parts are so different.\n\n"}
{"id": "46249607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46249607", "title": "Bhrama (illusion)", "text": "Bhrama (illusion)\n\nBhrama (Sanskrit: भ्रम), in the context of Hindu thought, means – error, mistake, illusion, confusion, perplexity. But, it literally means – that which is not steady; and refers to error etc., caused by defects in the perceptive system. The seeing of snake in a rope in darkness, silver nacre in moonlight, water in a mirage on a hot day and a person in a stump of tree are four classic instances quoted in Vedantic texts. \"Bhrama\" is a mistake, it is a confusion about one object which exists for another object which does not exist, it merely refers to the fallibility of human perception.\n\nHuman nature is ordinarily afflicted by - भ्रमप्रमादविप्रलिप्साकरणापाटवदोषाः – i.e. \"bhrama\" (false knowledge or mistakes), \"pramāda\" (inattention or misunderstanding reality), \"vipralipsā\" (cheating propensity) and \"karaṇa-a-pāṭava\" (imperfection of the senses) are four major mind-faults which mislead human beings and do not permit right perception and cognition. Amongst these, the knowledge which is of the nature of \"bhrama\" is the direct thought-wave of \"avidya\". And, the texts speak about there being five theories of illusion or erroneous perception – \"Ātmakhyāti\" (Yogacara theory of subjective apprehension), \"Asatkhyāti\" (Madhyamaka theory of the nonexistent), \"Akhyāti\" (Prabhākara’s theory of non-apprehension), \"Anyathākhyati\" (Nyaya theory of misapprehension) and \"Anirvacanīyakhyāti\" (Advaita Vedanta theory of apprehension of the indeterminate), developed by five schools of thought.\n\nThe Vedantic texts reveal the Self as Pure Consciousness; they reveal the Self as the ever blissful witness who is neither the enjoyer nor the enjoyment or the object of enjoyment. The enjoyer is Chidabhasa or Jiva, the sheath of the intellect, a product or manifestation of Maya, not transcendentally real and subject to change. Vidyaranya in his Panchadasi (VII.9-10) explains:-\n\nSwami Swahananda in his commentary tells us that Kutastha, conventionally identified with ego, is not the object of identification for it is incapable of being associated with ego.\n\nAccording to Shankara, \"atma-anatma adhyasa\", the so-called locus of superimposition, is a mispresentation or \"proksha-aproksha bhrama\". Panchapadika pf Padmapada interprets \"purovasthitava\" (the object in front) as contact with the visual sense, whereas Ratnaprabha of Niścalakara relates it with sense-contact; the former explains that a non-object can become an apparent object and the latter explains that Shankara in no way considers the said locus to be complete and conclusive.\n\n\"Saguna\" (with attributes) worship leads to a typical illusion in as much as the devotee mistakes physical or mental images for the formless God; it is of the nature of the \"Samvadi-bhrama\" that finally leads to the realization of Nirguna Brahman, the endless pursuit after sense-objects is the \"Visamvadi-bhrama\". But, the cumulative subtle awareness of \"bhrama\" need not necessarily result in the awareness of Maya because owing to the latter either one wakes up from a dream or goes on dreaming forever.\n\n\"Svarūpa-bhrama\" (illusion about spirituality) is one the four major \"anarthas\" (useless, meaningless, disastrous, wrongdoings) and is said to be of four kinds – \"sva-tattva\" which is illusion about one’s own spiritual identity, \"para-tattva\" which is illusion about the spiritual identity of the supreme absolute truth, \"sādhya-sādhana-tattva\" which is illusion about the spiritual means and the object gained, and \"māyā-tattva\" which is illusion about the Lord’s external energy. These \"anarthas\" are required to be uprooted in order to develop \"niśṭa\" (devotion). But, \"bhrama\" is not an \"āropa\" (imposing of, imputation, figurative substitution) which is an āhārya (wilfully caused in spite of falsity) cognition.\n\nThe Yoga School of thought adopts the \"Anyathākhyati\" theory of misapprehension of the Nyayas for dealing with \"bhrama\", which theory is based on the premise that \"bhrama\" is thinking of something as that which it is not, like attributing the characteristics of Prakrti to Purusha and vice versa.\n\nIn Ayurveda, \"bhrama\" refers to Vertigo, a discreet disease due to Vata prakopa and Pitta prakopa which shows six distinct stages, and is curable.\n"}
{"id": "3666140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3666140", "title": "Blind date", "text": "Blind date\n\nA blind date is a social engagement between two people who have not previously met, usually arranged by a mutual acquaintance.\n\nA blind date is arranged for by a mutual acquaintance of both participants, whether that person be a friend of both persons or a family member of one. \nThe two people who take part in the blind date have never met or seen each other, thus the name blind date.\nTherefore, it is the responsibility of the person who arranges the date to ensure that they are a good match.\nSometimes one person is more interested in the match than the other, which may make it more difficult on the person arranging the date to judge whether the date will be successful.\n\nThe date is usually two hours or less, as it is just a first date and is really meant to introduce the two people more than it is meant to create a marriage.\nFurthermore, due to the unfamiliarity of the two people the date is shorter than most because they are in the beginning stages of a relationship. \nThe date is also very adventurous in the way that neither party knows what to expect and whether or not they will hit it off. The location of the date is also affected by the spontaneity in that it is often a neutral and public place so that both parties feel comfortable.\n\nFamily and friends have been declining in their influence over the dating market for the past 60 years. In the past 15 years, the rise of the Internet has also displaced the neighborhood, the workplace, and the circle of friends as sources of dating partners. As of May 2013, it was estimated that 11% of adult Americans had used online dating websites or mobile dating applications, and 59% of American Internet users agreed that online dating was a good way to meet people. China's largest online dating site reported over 100 million users in September 2013. For couples that have been together for more than a year, the choice of venue (online vs. real life) had little influence on relationship success.\nOnline dating services ask questions in the form of a survey in order to get to know the user better as a person and to understand what they are looking for in a relationship. Then the online service will find matching users based on various algorithms. The users are enabled to communicate with each other, often after they sign up for the service at a cost.\n\nAccording to a study done by Match.com, in an effort to determine how much impact their services are having on the way relationships develop today, “17% of couples married in the last 3 years, or 1 in 6, met each other on an online dating site” and “1 out of 5 single people have dated someone they met on an online dating site”. \n\nThere are thousands of online dating websites; however, eHarmony has the most participants with 20 million profiles and Match.com has the second most profiles with 15 million.\n\n\n\nParents find their children blind dates in parks. “Spouse-hunting fairs in big city parks by parents eager to see their children tie the knot have made parks in China a haven for relationship hunters and their parents”\n. Zhongshan Park has been the location for six years where parents go to seek partners for their children. This process begins by the parents sitting on a bench with their child’s credentials, such as photos and academic or career information. After information has been exchanged and the parents like what they see, questions are asked about anything ranging from their child’s zodiac sign to their place of residence. If everything runs smoothly during the second step, contact information is exchanged. This process altogether can be very stressful for the parents and the child because they are not always in agreement. This makes it even more difficult for a partner to be found. Li, a middle-aged man who has experienced blind dating says he has met women “who have no intention of finding a boyfriend. Meeting me is merely to indulge their parents”.\n\nSouth Korean blind dating customs are preferred rather than other dating techniques. There are two kinds of blind dates in South Korea: “mee-ting” and “sogeting”. Mee-ting blind dates are group dates with no prior expectations of commitment, and are often used by university students. A sogeting date usually includes less alcohol than a mee-ting date. It is also engaged in by people who are “single and looking”.\n\n"}
{"id": "56905202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56905202", "title": "C. A. Campbell", "text": "C. A. Campbell\n\nCharles Arthur Campbell (13 January 1897 – 17 March 1974) was a Scottish metaphysical philosopher.\n\nC.A. Campbell was born in Glasgow on January the 3rd, 1897. He attended secondary school at the Glasgow Academy and continued to the University of Glasgow where he earned a Bachelor's degree in philosophy. He then entered the Balliol College in Oxford, where would eventually achieve a Doctor of Letters. The First World War began during his time at Oxford, and he set aside his studies to serve as an officer in the British Army, with the 10th Borders Regiment.\n\nCampbell was invalided out of the army (medically discharged) in 1917, and in 1924 he returned to the University of Glasgow as an Assistant Lecturer of Moral Philosophy, where he was given his Doctor of Letters following the 1931 publication of his first book, \"Scepticism and Construction\". Between 1932 and 1938, he served as a Professor of Philosophy at the University College of North Wales in Bangor. After this, he returned to the University of Glasgow as a Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, a title he held until 1961.\n\nBetween 1953 and 1954 Campbell gave his first Gifford Lecture at the University of St. Andrews, followed by another, which ran from 1954 to 1955. These lectures were compiled and released as his second publication, a book called \"On Selfhood and Godhood\". In 1964, he was appointed Dean of Faculties at the University of Glasgow; a position he resigned from in 1966. In 1967 he released his third and final publication, entitled \"In Defense of Freewill\". \nCampbell died in Callender, Perthshire, on the 17th of March, 1974.\n\nCampbell was generally associated with the philosophical school of British Idealism, his philosophy having been strongly influenced by the writing of F.H. Bradley, one of British Idealism’s pioneering figures. Unlike Bradley, Campbell supported the concept of free will, and this side of his work, most clearly outlined in his final book \"In Defence of Free Will\", remains well circulated. Despite the lasting popularity of these findings, Campbell himself seems to have considered his writing on the topic of human cognition and its relationship to a ‘suprarational’, non-physical reality to be of equal importance; work which set the stage for his subsequent discussion of the will. It is on these former topics which he presented a pair of Gifford Lectures later compiled as the book \"On Selfhood and Godhood\".\n\nCampbell was a metaphysical pluralist who believed the world to be made up of many independently real things. This was an important way in which his work diverged from the teachings of Bradley, whose philosophy is generally regarded as a version of monism. Monism is a predominantly fatalist doctrine which does not tend to treat individual motivation as anything more than an illusion, claiming that everything – including our sense of self and an environment we perceive to be external – exists as part of a single supreme being. Bradley and many other idealist philosophers call this supreme being the ‘absolute’. While Campbell believed in a form of the absolute he called the ‘suprarational,’ he did not agree that each part of this greater whole was directly conjoined to every other in a way which disallowed independent movement. This deviation allowed Campbell to embrace the concept of free will later in his career, a step Bradley refused to take based on his belief in the interconnectedness of all things. Campbell expresses the ideas which support this stance most clearly in the Gifford Lecture later published as \"On Selfhood and Godhood\", which begins in a study of human cognition.\n\nIn \"On Selfhood and Godhood,\" Campbell gave a description of the self as an innate feature of human beings. He used two different terms to explain a feeling of individuality seemingly persistent to all humans: the ‘substantival self’ and the character. Campbell discussed the substantival self as something core to each person which determines their actions prior to the engagement of rational thought. This view echoes Aristotle’s description of the soul as an indivisible kind of non-physical substance, as found in his \"Categories\". To Campbell, the substantival self is the part of us that remains stable in the face of change, allowing us to remain the same as other less fundamental features are altered. The part of us that can be altered is what Campbell refers to as our character, which can also be roughly thought of as our personality.\n\nThrough the substantival self’s experience of the world, we develop manners of being which can be referred to in universal terms: one can be kind, for example, though this can change over time if they are treated in a way which encourages them to be more callous in their social interactions. These habits develop through experience and form the character, which grants us the ability to influence an environment defined by the common values that determine the state of natural things. Someone who can be kind has more mobility in the social world, for example, just as a rounder rock will roll faster down a hill than a more angular one of similar size.\n\nCampbell’s view that we develop the characters which grant us influence in the world through engagement with it resembles David Hume’s (a famously anti-metaphysical philosopher) claim that the self is nothing more than a ‘bundle of perceptions’, or ways of understanding and interacting with the world derived solely from sensory experience. Revealed in this similarity, however, is a key contradiction between the work of Campbell and Hume. Hume considered one’s experience of having a character composed as a bundle of perceptions to be the only thing responsible for our feeling of individuality. Without some internal locus for experiences, the self becomes something of an illusion, or at the very least a collection of accidental qualities determined from outside the individual. While such a character would be unique to an individual as something determined circumstantially – having occurred in a specific time and place – Hume’s view of the self eschews any discussion of the individual as unique \"in their own right\", before they are determined by quantifiable experience.\n\nCampbell supported his belief in the substantival self by calling it absurd to suggest – as Hume did – that the character is formed solely by our experience of the world as provided by sensory perception, with no input from any kind of pre-rational self. This, he argued, is fundamentally counterintuitive, as perception is generally understood to be an act whereby a perceiver \"perceives\" something, and must begin with them directing their attention towards the object of their perception. To imply that our characters are entirely determined by our experiences implies that our minds are wholly passive in the process of cognition, and that the objects of our perception are somehow acting on us so as to appear as concepts in our minds. Campbell made the comparison between Hume’s view that the mind is passive and Plato’s theory of the forms, which claims that the world is made up of non-physical values called forms, which accumulate as perceivable objects seemingly of their own volition. This is the kind of agency sense datum would need to have were the mind passive, and the comparison to Plato is piercing because Plato’s philosophy is considered one of the earliest metaphysical doctrines, stating that the forms exist as non-physical determinants of the perceivable world. Discussion of non-physical entities is the kind of thought Hume made a strong habit of rejecting.\n\nBelieving that it was patently illogical to assume that the sense datum responsible for our development of character could plant themselves in our consciousness from the outside, Campbell supported his view of the substantival self by claiming that it plays an active role necessary to our cognition. He thought that its role was to discern between things, and that without this internal capacity to make distinctions between the objects of our perception, we would be overwhelmed by raw sensory input. If one cannot recognise a difference between colours, they all look the same, for example. The same is true for shapes, scale, speed, and so on. Our consciousness and our ability to form conceptual understandings of the world seemingly relies on our ability to make judgements between things, and Campbell referred to this explanation as the ‘judgement theory of cognition’ (the concept of judgement as a trait indicative of an innate human feature had also been discussed by idealist philosophers prior to Campbell, including Bradley). The source of this ability would have to be itself uninfluenced by external circumstances and so could not have come from outside of us, making it a non-materially determined metaphysical entity.\n\nWhile Campbell did not ascribe to Bradley’s belief in an absolute reality which determines the course of all physical and non-physical activity, he did maintain a belief in a form of the absolute he called the ‘suprarational’: an objective non-physical reality which is the ultimate subject of our cognition, and which contains the ordering principles (time, shape, etc.) we access in order to understand and manipulate our material environment. He believed that we have access to these principles because the indivisible substantival self exists as a will, or volition, of the being responsible for creating them.\n\nCampbell refers to this being as God, though he believed that because the creator of the world would have to be a pure self, with no physical component, no collection of universal concepts designed to facilitate an understanding of the physical world (such as language) would be sufficient to describe it. This is because the creator of these principles would have to transcend all difference, existing outside a world defined by contradictory values which can be mentally conceptualised and are therefore accessible to rational thought.\n\nCampbell’s belief in a being determinate of everything accessible to our rational thought might cause his philosophy to appear monistic (see above), although unlike many followers of F.H. Bradley, he maintained a view that humans possess agency—a trait definable as the ability to determine one’s own actions independently of their natural environment, and without direct influence from a supreme being. This is a view Campbell maintained despite believing that our ability to conceptualise and alter things in the physical world exists because the substantival self is a volition of a supreme being. This view that our innate faculties for self-expression come about because our selves are reflections of the absolute also features in Bradley’s idealism, however, Bradley called free will a “lingering chimera”, because his belief in the total interconnectedness of all things would make impossible any deviation from the plan of a supreme being responsible for creating them. In making a decision, one would either be influenced by desires of the character, as formed through interaction with a physical world created by a supreme being, or would be more directly empowered by the supreme being to overcome these baser desires.\n\nCampbell disagreed with Bradley’s brand of metaphysical determinism, referring to two categories of causation: ‘agent’ and ‘event’ causation. Event causation is the only kind of causation accepted by Bradley, and refers to any situation where one’s actions are defined by a pre-determined causal chain. If one person stumbles into another, for example, and that person pushes a third in an attempt to recover, that second person cannot reasonably be said to have chosen to push the third person. Bradley’s philosophy is determinist because it suggests that everything we do occurs this way; that the course of all action is already determined according to the will of an absolute being. Even if a person believes that they are pushing someone intentionally, Bradley would suggest that the force of that intention was provided by the absolute. Campbell however, believed that one person could choose actions of their own accord, using a capacity for independent thought resulting in movement, or agent causation. Campbell believed that we have the freedom to make moral decisions, and that when we resist other reasons to act, and instead act according to a sense of duty, we are exercising this faculty for agent causation which Bradley only considered available to a supreme being.\n\nThis resistance of physically determined temptation comes as a result of what Campbell called an ‘effort of will,’ whereby we prioritise a moral impulse of the self over desires of the character, which are often far stronger and provide what he calls as a ‘path of least resistance’ for the resulting action. He believed that it was entirely up to us when we engaged in this effort, and that we can refer to our experience of having done so as introspective evidence that we were, at those times, legitimately torn between two options and made the choice to engage in an effort of will and carry out the morally righteous action when we could have very easily done otherwise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15967689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15967689", "title": "Claude Frassen", "text": "Claude Frassen\n\nClaude Frassen (1620 – 26 February 1711) was a French Franciscan Scotist theologian and philosopher.\n\nFrassen was born near Péronne, France. He entered the Franciscan Order at Peronne in his seventeenth year; and after the year of novitiate was sent to Paris, where he completed his studies and remained for thirty years as professor of philosophy and theology. In 1662 he was made doctor of the Sorbonne, and as definitor general, to which office he was elected in 1682, he took part in the general chapters of the order at Toledo and Rome.\n\nOutside of the order his counsel was sought not only by ecclesiastics but likewise by secular dignitaries, Louis XIV of France, in particular, holding him in high esteem. He died in Paris, at the age of 91 years, 74 of which he had spent in religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1543775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543775", "title": "Code of conduct", "text": "Code of conduct\n\nA code of conduct is a set of rules outlining the social norms, religious rules and responsibilities of, and or proper practices for, an individual.\nIn its 2007 International Good Practice Guidance, \"Defining and Developing an Effective Code of Conduct for Organizations\", the International Federation of Accountants provided the following working definition:\n\nA common code of conduct is written for employees of a company (a company code of conduct), which protects the business and informs the employees of the company's expectations. It is ideal for even the smallest of companies to form a document containing important information on expectations for employees. The document does not need to be complex or have elaborate policies, but the file needs a simple basis of what the company expects from each employee.\n\nA Code of Conduct can be an important step in establishing an inclusive culture, but it is not a comprehensive solution on its own. An ethical culture is created by the organization's leaders who manifest their ethics in their attitudes and behavior. Studies of codes of conduct in the private sector show that their effective implementation must be part of a learning process that requires training, consistent enforcement, and continuous measurement/improvement. Simply requiring members to read the code is not enough to ensure that they understand it and will remember its contents.\n\nThe proof of effectiveness is when employees/members feel comfortable enough to voice concerns and believe that the organization will respond with appropriate action.\n\n"}
{"id": "1058142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1058142", "title": "David Chadwick (writer)", "text": "David Chadwick (writer)\n\nDavid Chadwick (born 1945) grew up in Texas and moved to California to study Zen as a student of Shunryu Suzuki in 1966. Chadwick was ordained as a Buddhist priest in 1971, shortly before Suzuki's death. He assisted in the operation of the San Francisco Zen Center for a number of years.\n\nChadwick has two children and has married and remarried. He has written several books and continues to \"dabble in Buddhism and related matters\". Among his works is \"Crooked Cucumber\", the biography of Shunryu Suzuki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28951410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951410", "title": "Dominik Szulc", "text": "Dominik Szulc\n\nDominik Szulc (June 10, 1787 – December 27, 1860) was a Polish philosopher, historian, and a significant precursor to Polish positivism.\n\nIn 1814 he began studies at the University of Vilnius. In 1818 became a teacher of Polish language in high school in Vilnius, and from 1823 a teacher of eloquence and logic in the gymnasium of Bialystok . From 1835 he taught at the gymnasium of Lublin, since 1840 in schools in Warsaw. In 1853 he retired. A member of the Kraków Scientific Society correspondence, and the Russian Geographical Society. In his works he defended the thesis of the Polish character of Copernicus. He believed that the discoveries of Copernicus began the development of modern civilization and science.\n\n"}
{"id": "1830721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830721", "title": "Duty to retreat", "text": "Duty to retreat\n\nIn law, the duty to retreat is a legal requirement in some jurisdictions that a threatened person cannot harm another in self-defense (especially lethal force) when it is possible to instead retreat to a place of safety. This requirement contrasts with right in some other jurisdictions to \"stand one's ground\", meaning being allowed to defend one's self instead of retreating.\n\nIt is a specific component which sometimes appears in the criminal defense of self-defense, and which must be addressed if criminal defendants are to prove that their conduct was justified. \n\nSome U.S. jurisdictions require that a person retreat from an attack, and allow the use of deadly force in self-defense only when retreat is not possible or when retreat poses a danger to the person under attack. The duty to retreat is not universal, however. For example, police officers are not required to retreat when acting in the line of duty. \n\nOther states apply what is known as the castle doctrine, whereby a threatened person need not retreat within his or her own dwelling or place of work. Sometimes this has been the result of court rulings that one need not retreat in a place where one has an especial right to be. In other states, this has been accomplished by statute, such as that suggested by the Model Penal Code.\n\nStill other states have passed stand your ground laws that do not require an individual to retreat and allow one to match force for force, deadly force for deadly force. \n\nMost state legal systems began by importing English Common Law such as Acts of Parliament of 2 Ed. III (Statute of Northampton), and 5 Rich. II of 1381 (Forcible Entry Act 1381)—which imposed criminal sanctions intending to discourage the resort to self-help. This required a threatened party to retreat, whenever property was \"involved\" and resolve the issue by civil means.\n\nToday, the majority of American states have construed their statutes of forcible entry, both penal and civil, in such a manner as to abrogate (i.e. abolish) the common law privilege to use force in the recovery of possession of land.\n\nIn \"Erwin v. State\" (1876), the Supreme Court of Ohio wrote that a \"true man\", one without fault, would not retreat. In \"Runyan v. State\" (1877), the Indiana court rejected a duty to retreat, implying it was un-American, writing of a referring to the distinct American mind, \"the tendency of the American mind seems to be very strongly against\" a duty to retreat. The court went further in saying that no statutory law could require a duty to retreat, because the right to stand one's ground is \"founded on the law of nature; and is not, nor can be, superseded by any law of society.\"\n\nIn English law the focus of the test is whether the defendant is acting reasonably in the particular situation. There is no specific requirement that a person must retreat in anticipation of an attack. Although some withdrawal would be useful evidence to prove that the defendant did not want to fight, not every defendant is able to escape. In \"R v Bird\" the defendant was physically attacked, and reacted instinctively and immediately without having the opportunity to retreat. Had there been a delay in the response, the reaction might have appeared more revenge than self-defense.\n\nAs to carrying weapons in anticipation of an attack, \"Evans v Hughes\" held that for a defendant to justify his possession of a metal bar on a public highway, he had to show that there was an imminent particular threat affecting the particular circumstances in which the weapon was carried. Similarly, in \"Taylor v Mucklow\" a building owner was held to be using an unreasonable degree of force in carrying a loaded airgun against a builder who was demolishing a new extension because his bills were unpaid. More dramatically, in \"AG's Reference (No 2 of 1983)\" Lord Lane held that a defendant who manufactured ten petrol bombs to defend his shop during the Toxteth riots could set up the defense of showing that he possessed an explosive substance \"for a lawful purpose\" if he could establish that he was acting in self-defense to protect himself or his family or property against an imminent and apprehended attack by means which he believed to be no more than reasonably necessary to meet the attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25035433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25035433", "title": "Epilogism", "text": "Epilogism\n\nEpilogism is a style of Inference invented by the ancient Empiric school of medicine. It is a theory-free method of looking at history by accumulating fact with minimal generalization and being conscious of the side effects of making causal claims. Epilogism is an inference which moves entirely within the domain of visible and evident things, it tries not to invoke unobservables. It is tightly knit to the famous \"tripos of medicine\".\n\nSee also Doctrines of the Empiric school.\n\nSee also Causal inference.\n\nEpilogism is discussed as a way of viewing history in The Black Swan (Taleb book) by Nassim Nicholas Taleb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9892", "title": "Expert", "text": "Expert\n\nAn expert is someone who has a prolonged or intense experience through practice and education in a particular field. Informally, an expert is someone widely recognized as a reliable source of technique or skill whose faculty for judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely is accorded authority and status by peers or the public in a specific well-distinguished domain. An expert, more generally, is a person with extensive knowledge or ability based on research, experience, or occupation and in a particular area of study. Experts are called in for advice on their respective subject, but they do not always agree on the particulars of a field of study. An expert can be believed, by virtue of credential, training, education, profession, publication or experience, to have special knowledge of a subject beyond that of the average person, sufficient that others may officially (and legally) rely upon the individual's opinion. Historically, an expert was referred to as a sage (Sophos). The individual was usually a profound thinker distinguished for wisdom and sound judgment.\n\nIn specific fields, the definition of expert is well established by consensus and therefore it is not always necessary for individuals to have a professional or academic qualification for them to be accepted as an expert. In this respect, a shepherd with 50 years of experience tending flocks would be widely recognized as having complete expertise in the use and training of sheep dogs and the care of sheep. Another example from computer science is that an expert system may be taught by a human and thereafter considered an expert, often outperforming human beings at particular tasks. In law, an expert witness must be recognized by argument and authority.\n\nResearch in this area attempts to understand the relation between expert knowledge, skills and personal characteristics and exceptional performance. Some researchers have investigated the cognitive structures and processes of experts. The fundamental aim of this research is to describe what it is that experts know and how they use their knowledge to achieve performance that most people assume requires extreme or extraordinary ability. Studies have investigated the factors that enable experts to be fast and accurate.\n\nExpertise characteristics, skills and knowledge of a person (that is, expert) or of a system, which distinguish experts from novices and less experienced people. In many domains there are objective measures of performance capable of distinguishing experts from novices: expert chess players will almost always win games against recreational chess players; expert medical specialists are more likely to diagnose a disease correctly; etc.\n\nThe word expertise is used to refer also to Expert Determination, where an expert is invited to decide a disputed issue. The decision may be binding or advisory, according to the agreement between the parties in dispute.\n\nThere are two academic approaches to the understanding and study of expertise. The first understands expertise as an emergent property of communities of practice. In this view expertise is socially constructed; tools for thinking and scripts for action are jointly constructed within social groups enabling that group jointly to define and acquire expertise in some domain.\n\nIn the second view expertise is a characteristic of individuals and is a consequence of the human capacity for extensive adaptation to physical and social environments. Many accounts of the development of expertise emphasize that it comes about through long periods of deliberate practice. In many domains of expertise estimates of 10 years' experience deliberate practice are common. Recent research on expertise emphasizes the nurture side of the nature and nurture argument. Some factors not fitting the nature-nurture dichotomy are biological but not genetic, such as starting age, handedness, and season of birth.\n\nIn the field of education there is a potential \"expert blind spot\" (see also Dunning–Kruger effect) in newly practicing educators who are experts in their content area. This is based on the \"expert blind spot hypothesis\" researched by Mitchell Nathan and Andrew Petrosino (2003: 906). Newly practicing educators with advanced subject-area expertise of an educational content area tend to use the formalities and analysis methods of their particular area of expertise as a major guiding factor of student instruction and knowledge development, rather than being guided by student learning and developmental needs that are prevalent among novice learners.\n\nThe blind spot metaphor refers to the physiological blind spot in human vision in which perceptions of surroundings and circumstances are strongly impacted by their expectations. Beginning practicing educators tend to overlook the importance of novice levels of prior knowledge and other factors involved in adjusting and adapting pedagogy for learner understanding. This expert blind spot is in part due to an assumption that novices’ cognitive schemata are less elaborate, interconnected, and accessible than experts’ and that their pedagogical reasoning skills are less well developed (Borko & Livingston, 1989: 474). Essential knowledge of subject matter for practicing educators consists of overlapping knowledge domains: subject matter knowledge and pedagogical content matter (Borko, Eisenhart, Brown, Underhill, Jones, & Agard, 1992: 195). Pedagogical content matter consists of an understanding of how to represent certain concepts in ways appropriate to the learner contexts, including abilities and interests. The expert blind spot is a pedagogical phenomenon that is typically overcome through educators’ experience with instructing learners over time.\nIn line with the socially constructed view of expertise, expertise can also be understood as a form of power; that is, experts have the ability to influence others as a result of their defined social status. By a similar token, a fear of experts can arise from fear of an intellectual elite's power. In earlier periods of history, simply being able to read made one part of an intellectual elite. The introduction of the printing press in Europe during the fifteenth century and the diffusion of printed matter contributed to higher literacy rates and wider access to the once-rarefied knowledge of academia. The subsequent spread of education and learning changed society, and initiated an era of widespread education whose elite would now instead be those who produced the written content itself for consumption, in education and all other spheres.\n\nPlato's \"Noble Lie\", concerns expertise. Plato did not believe most people were clever enough to look after their own and society's best interest, so the few clever people of the world needed to lead the rest of the flock. Therefore, the idea was born that only the elite should know the truth in its complete form and the rulers, Plato said, must tell the people of the city \"the noble lie\" to keep them passive and content, without the risk of upheaval and unrest.\n\nIn contemporary society, doctors and scientists, for example, are considered to be experts in that they hold a body of dominant knowledge that is, on the whole, inaccessible to the layman. However, this inaccessibility and perhaps even mystery that surrounds expertise does not cause the layman to disregard the opinion of the experts on account of the unknown. Instead, the complete opposite occurs whereby members of the public believe in and highly value the opinion of medical professionals or of scientific discoveries , despite not understanding it.\n\nA number of computational models have been developed in cognitive science to explain the development from novice to expert. In particular, Herbert A. Simon and Kevin Gilmartin proposed a model of learning in chess called MAPP (Memory-Aided Pattern Recognizer). Based on simulations, they estimated that about 50,000 chunks (units of memory) are necessary to become an expert, and hence the many years needed to reach this level. More recently, the CHREST model (Chunk Hierarchy and REtrieval STructures) has simulated in detail a number of phenomena in chess expertise (eye movements, performance in a variety of memory tasks, development from novice to expert) and in other domains.\n\nAn important feature of expert performance seems to be the way in which experts are able to rapidly retrieve complex configurations of information from long-term memory. They recognize situations because they have meaning. It is perhaps this central concern with meaning and how it attaches to situations which provides an important link between the individual and social approaches to the development of expertise. Work on \"Skilled Memory and Expertise\" by Anders Ericsson and James J. Staszewski confronts the paradox of expertise and claims that people not only acquire content knowledge as they practice cognitive skills, they also develop mechanisms that enable them to use a large and familiar knowledge base efficiently.\n\nWork on expert systems (computer software designed to provide an answer to a problem, or clarify uncertainties where normally one or more human experts would need to be consulted) typically is grounded on the premise that expertise is based on acquired repertoires of rules and frameworks for decision making which can be elicited as the basis for computer supported judgment and decision-making. However, there is increasing evidence that expertise does not work in this fashion. Rather, experts recognize situations based on experience of many prior situations. They are in consequence able to make rapid decisions in complex and dynamic situations.\n\nIn a critique of the expert systems literature suggest:\n\nThe role of long term memory in the skilled memory effect was first articulated by Chase and Simon in their classic studies of chess expertise. They asserted that organized patterns of information stored in long term memory (chunks) mediated experts' rapid encoding and superior retention. Their study revealed that all subjects retrieved about the same number of chunks, but the size of the chunks varied with subjects' prior experience. Experts' chunks contained more individual pieces than those of novices. This research did not investigate how experts find, distinguish, and retrieve the right chunks from the vast number they hold without a lengthy search of long term memory.\n\nSkilled memory enables experts to rapidly encode, store, and retrieve information within the domain of their expertise and thereby circumvent the capacity limitations that typically constrain novice performance. For example, it explains experts' ability to recall large amounts of material displayed for only brief study intervals, provided that the material comes from their domain of expertise. When unfamiliar material (not from their domain of expertise) is presented to experts, their recall is no better than that of novices.\n\nThe first principle of skilled memory, the \"meaningful encoding principle,\" states that experts exploit prior knowledge to durably encode information needed to perform a familiar task successfully. Experts form more elaborate and accessible memory representations than novices. The elaborate semantic memory network creates meaningful memory codes that create multiple potential cues and avenues for retrieval.\n\nThe second principle, the \"retrieval structure principle\" states that experts develop memory mechanisms called retrieval structures to facilitate the retrieval of information stored in long term memory. These mechanisms operate in a fashion consistent with the meaningful encoding principle to provide cues that can later be regenerated to retrieve the stored information efficiently without a lengthy search.\n\nThe third principle, the \"speed up principle\" states that long term memory encoding and retrieval operations speed up with practice, so that their speed and accuracy approach the speed and accuracy of short term memory storage and retrieval.\n\nExamples of skilled memory research described within the Ericsson and Stasewski study include:\n\nMuch of the research regarding expertise involves the studies of how experts and novices differ in solving problems (Chi, M. T. H., Glasser R., & Rees, E.,1982). Mathematics (Sweller, J., Mawer, R. F., & Ward, M. R., 1983) and physics (Chi, Feltovich, & Glaser, 1981) are common domains for these studies.\n\nOne of the most cited works in this area, Chi et al. (1981), examines how experts (PhD students in physics) and novices (undergraduate students that completed one semester of mechanics) categorize and represent physics problems. They found that novices sort problems into categories based upon surface features (e.g., keywords in the problem statement or visual configurations of the objects depicted). Experts, however, categorize problems based upon their deep structures (i.e., the main physics principle used to solve the problem).\n\nTheir findings also suggest that while the schemas of both novices and experts are activated by the same features of a problem statement, the experts’ schemas contain more procedural knowledge which aid in determining which principle to apply, and novices’ schemas contain mostly declarative knowledge which do not aid in determining methods for solution.\n\nRelative to a specific field, an expert has:\n\nMarie-Line Germain (Germain, 2006) developed a psychometric measure of perception of employee expertise called the Generalized Expertise Measure (GEM). She defined a behavioral dimension in experts, in addition to the dimensions suggested by Swanson and Holton (2001). Her 16-item scale contains objective expertise items and subjective expertise items. Objective items were named Evidence-Based items. Subjective items (the remaining 11 items from the measure below) were named Self-Enhancement items because of their behavioral component.\n\n(Condensed from Germain, 2006).\n\n\nScholars in rhetoric have also turned their attention to the concept of the expert. Considered an appeal to ethos or \"the personal character of the speaker\", established expertise allows a speaker to make statements regarding special topics of which the audience may be ignorant. In other words, the expert enjoys the deference of the audience’s judgment and can appeal to authority where a non-expert cannot.\n\nIn The Rhetoric of Expertise, E. Johanna Hartelius defines two basic modes of expertise: autonomous and attributed expertise. While an autonomous expert can \"possess expert knowledge without recognition from other people,\" attributed expertise is \"a performance that may or may not indicate genuine knowledge.\" With these two categories, Hartelius isolates the rhetorical problems faced by experts: just as someone with autonomous expertise may not possess the skill to persuade people to hold their points of view, someone with merely attributed expertise may be persuasive but lack the actual knowledge pertaining to a given subject. The problem faced by audiences follows from the problem facing experts: when faced with competing claims of expertise, what resources do non-experts have to evaluate claims put before them?\n\nHartelius and other scholars have also noted the challenges that projects such as Wikipedia pose to how experts have traditionally constructed their authority. In \"Wikipedia and the Emergence of Dialogic Expertise\", she highlights Wikipedia as an example of the \"dialogic expertise\" made possible by collaborative digital spaces. Predicated upon the notion that \"truth emerges from dialogue\", Wikipedia challenges traditional expertise both because anyone can edit it and because no single person, regardless of their credentials, can end a discussion by fiat. In other words, the community, rather than single individuals, direct the course of discussion. The production of knowledge, then, as a process of dialogue and argumentation, becomes an inherently rhetorical activity.\n\nHartelius calls attention to two competing norm systems of expertise: “network norms of dialogic collaboration” and “deferential norms of socially sanctioned professionalism”; Wikipedia being evidence of the first. Drawing on a Bakhtinian framework, Hartelius posits that Wikipedia is an example of an epistemic network that is driven by the view that individuals’ ideas clash with one another so as to generate expertise collaboratively. Hartelius compares Wikipedia’s methodology of open-ended discussions of topics to that of Bakhtin’s theory of speech communication, where genuine dialogue is considered a live event, which is continuously open to new additions and participants. Hartelius acknowledges that knowledge, experience, training, skill, and qualification are important dimensions of expertise but posits that the concept is more complex than sociologists and psychologists suggest. Arguing that expertise is rhetorical, then, Hartelius explains that expertise: “(...) is not simply about one person’s skills being different from another’s. It is also fundamentally contingent on a struggle for ownership and legitimacy.”. Effective communication is an inherent element in expertise in the same style as knowledge is. Rather than leaving each other out, substance and communicative style are complementary. Hartelius further suggests that Wikipedia’s dialogic construction of expertise illustrates both the instrumental and the constitutive dimensions of rhetoric; instrumentally as it challenges traditional encyclopedias and constitutively as a function of its knowledge production. Going over the historical development of the encyclopedic project, Hartelius argues that changes in traditional encyclopedias have led to changes in traditional expertise. Wikipedia’s use of hyperlinks to connect one topic to another depends on, and develops, electronic interactivity meaning that Wikipedia’s way of knowing is dialogic. Dialogic expertise then, emerges from multiple interactions between utterances within the discourse community. The ongoing dialogue between contributors on Wikipedia not only results in the emergence of truth; it also explicates the topics one can be an expert of. As Hartelius explains: “The very act of presenting information about topics that are not included in traditional encyclopedias is a construction of new expertise.”. While Wikipedia insists that contributors must only publish preexisting knowledge, the dynamics behind dialogic expertise creates new information nonetheless. Knowledge production is created as a function of dialogue. According to Hartelius, dialogic expertise has emerged on Wikipedia not only because of its interactive structure but also because of the site’s hortative discourse which is not found in traditional encyclopedias. By Wikipedia’s hortative discourse, Hartelius means various encouragements to edit certain topics and instructions on how to do so that appear on the site. One further reason to the emergence of dialogic expertise on Wikipedia is the site’s , which function as a techne; explicating Wikipedia’s expert methodology.\n\nBuilding on Hartelius, Damien Pfister developed the concept of \"networked expertise\". Noting that Wikipedia employs a \"many to many\" rather than a \"one to one\" model of communication, he notes how expertise likewise shifts to become a quality of a group rather than an individual. With the information traditionally associated with individual experts now stored within a text produced by a collective, knowing about something is less important than knowing how to find something. As he puts it, \"With the internet, the historical power of subject matter expertise is eroded: the archival nature of the Web means that what and how to information is readily available.\" The rhetorical authority previously afforded to subject matter expertise, then, is given to those with the procedural knowledge of how to find information called for by a situation.\n\nAn expert differs from the specialist in that a specialist has to \"be able to solve\" a problem and an expert has to \"know its solution\". The opposite of an expert is generally known as a layperson, while someone who occupies a middle grade of understanding is generally known as a technician and often employed to assist experts. A person may well be an expert in one field and a layperson in many other fields. The concepts of experts and expertise are debated within the field of epistemology under the general heading of expert knowledge. In contrast, the opposite of a specialist would be a generalist or polymath.\n\nThe term is widely used informally, with people being described as 'experts' in order to bolster the relative value of their opinion, when no objective criteria for their expertise is available. The term crank is likewise used to disparage opinions. Academic elitism arises when experts become convinced that only their opinion is useful, sometimes on matters beyond their personal expertise.\n\nIn contrast to an expert, a novice (known colloquially as a newbie or 'greenhorn') is any person that is new to any science or field of study or activity or social cause and who is undergoing training in order to meet normal requirements of being regarded a mature and equal participant.\n\n\"Expert\" is also being mistakenly interchanged with the term \"authority\" in new media. An expert can be an authority if through relationships to people and technology, that expert is allowed to control access to his expertise. However, a person who merely wields authority is not by right an expert. In new media, users are being misled by the term \"authority\". Many sites and search engines such as Google and Technorati use the term \"authority\" to denote the link value and traffic to a particular topic. However, this authority only measures populist information. It in no way assures that the author of that site or blog is an expert.\n\nSome characteristics of the development of an expert have been found to include\n\nMark Twain defined an expert as \"an ordinary fellow from another town\". Will Rogers described an expert as \"A man fifty miles from home with a briefcase.\" Danish scientist and Nobel laureate Niels Bohr defined an expert as \"A person that has made every possible mistake within his or her field.\"\nMalcolm Gladwell describes expertise as a matter of practicing the correct way for a total of around 10,000 hours.\n\nScholar, Know-how, Skill, Competence, Excellence, Technical government, Insider, Tutor expertise in adult education\nAnti-intellectualism, Denialism, The Death of Expertise, Gibson's law\nDreyfus model of skill acquisition, Dunning–Kruger effect, Pygmalion effect, Rational skepticism\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2202381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202381", "title": "Faint young Sun paradox", "text": "Faint young Sun paradox\n\nThe faint young Sun paradox or faint young Sun problem describes the apparent contradiction between observations of liquid water early in Earth's history and the astrophysical expectation that the Sun's output would be only 70 percent as intense during that epoch as it is during the modern epoch. The issue was raised by astronomers Carl Sagan and George Mullen in 1972. Explanations of this paradox have taken into account greenhouse effects, astrophysical influences, or a combination of the two.\n\nThe unresolved question is how a climate suitable for life was maintained on Earth over the long timescale despite the variable solar output and wide range of terrestrial conditions.\n\nEarly in Earth's history, the Sun's output would have been only 70 percent as intense as it is during the modern epoch. In the environmental conditions existing at that time, this solar output would have been insufficient to maintain a liquid ocean. Astronomers Carl Sagan and George Mullen pointed out in 1972 that this is contrary to the geological and paleontological evidence.\n\nAccording to the Standard Solar Model, stars similar to the Sun should gradually brighten over their main sequence lifetime due to contraction of the stellar core caused by fusion. However, with the predicted solar luminosity ago and with greenhouse gas concentrations the same as are current for the modern Earth, any liquid water exposed to the surface would freeze. However, the geological record shows a continually relatively warm surface in the full early temperature record of Earth, with the exception of a cold phase, the Huronian glaciation, about 2.4 to 2.1 billion years ago. Water-related sediments have been found dating to as early as 3.8 billion years ago. Hints of early life forms have been dated from as early as 3.5 billion years, and the basic carbon isotopy is very much in line with what is found today.\n\nWhen it first formed, Earth's atmosphere may have contained more greenhouse gases. Carbon dioxide concentrations may have been higher, with estimated partial pressure as large as , because there was no bacterial photosynthesis to convert the CO gas to organic carbon and gaseous oxygen. Methane, a very active greenhouse gas that reacts with oxygen to produce carbon dioxide and water vapor, may have been more prevalent as well, with a mixing ratio of 10 (100 parts per million by volume).\n\nBased on a study of geological sulfur isotopes, in 2009 a group of scientists including Yuichiro Ueno from the Tokyo Institute of Technology proposed that carbonyl sulfide (OCS) was present in the Archean atmosphere. Carbonyl sulfide is an efficient greenhouse gas and the scientists estimate that the additional greenhouse effect would have been sufficient to prevent Earth from freezing over.\n\nBased on an \"analysis of nitrogen and argon isotopes in fluid inclusions trapped in 3.0- to 3.5-billion-year-old hydrothermal quartz\" a 2013 paper concludes that \"dinitrogen did not play a significant role in the thermal budget of the ancient Earth and that the Archean partial pressure of CO was probably lower than 0.7 bar\". Burgess, one of the authors states \"The amount of nitrogen in the atmosphere was too low to enhance the greenhouse effect of carbon dioxide sufficiently to warm the planet. However, our results did give a higher than expected pressure reading for carbon dioxide – at odds with the estimates based on fossil soils – which could be high enough to counteract the effects of the faint young Sun and will require further investigation.\" Also, in 2012-2016 the research by S.M. Som, based on the analysis of raindrop impressions and air bubbles trapped in ancient lavas, have further indicated a low atmospheric pressure below 1.1 bar and probably as low as 0.23 bar during an epoch 2.7 bn years from present.\n\nFollowing the initial accretion of the continents after about 1 billion years, geo-botanist Heinrich Walter and others contend that a non-biological version of the carbon cycle provided a negative temperature feedback. The carbon dioxide in the atmosphere dissolved in liquid water and combined with metal ions derived from silicate weathering to produce carbonates. During ice age periods, this part of the cycle would shut down. Volcanic carbon emissions would then restart a warming cycle due to the greenhouse effect.\n\nAccording to the Snowball Earth hypothesis, there may have been a number of periods when Earth's oceans froze over completely. The most recent such period may have been about 630 million years ago. Afterwards, the Cambrian explosion of new multicellular life forms started.\n\nIn the past, the geothermal release of decay heat, emitted from the decay of the isotopes potassium-40, uranium-235 and uranium-238 was considerably greater than it is today. The figure to the right shows that the isotope ratio between uranium-238 and uranium-235 was also considerably different than it is today, with the ratio essentially equivalent to that of modern low-enriched uranium. Therefore, natural uranium ore bodies, if present, would have been capable of supporting natural nuclear fission reactors with common light water as its moderator. Any attempts to explain the paradox must therefore factor in both radiogenic contributions, both from decay heat and from any potential natural nuclear fission reactors.\n\nThe primary mechanism for Earth warming by radiogenic heat is not the direct heating (which contribute less than 0.1% to the total heat input even of early Earth) but rather the establishment of the high geothermal gradient of the crust, resulting in greater out-gassing rate and therefore the higher concentration of greenhouse gases in early Earth atmosphere. Additionally, a hotter deep crust would limit the water absorption by crustal minerals, resulting in a smaller amount of high-albedo land protruding from the early oceans, causing more solar energy to be absorbed.\n\nThe Moon was much closer to Earth billions of years ago, and therefore produced considerably more tidal heating.\n\nA minority view, propounded by the Israeli-American physicist Nir Shaviv, uses climatological influences of solar wind, combined with a hypothesis of Danish physicist Henrik Svensmark for a cooling effect of cosmic rays, to explain the paradox. According to Shaviv, the early Sun had emitted a stronger solar wind that produced a protective effect against cosmic rays. In that early age, a moderate greenhouse effect comparable to today's would have been sufficient to explain an ice-free Earth. Evidence for a more active early Sun has been found in meteorites.\n\nThe temperature minimum around 2.4 billion years goes along with a cosmic ray flux modulation by a variable star formation rate in the Milky Way. The reduced solar impact later results in a stronger impact of cosmic ray flux (CRF), which is hypothesized to lead to a relationship with climatological variations.\n\nAn alternative model of solar evolution may explain the faint young Sun paradox. In this model, the early Sun underwent an extended period of higher solar wind output. This caused a mass loss from the Sun on the order of 5−10 percent over its lifetime, resulting in a more consistent level of solar luminosity (as the early Sun had more mass, resulting in more energy output than was predicted). In order to explain the warm conditions in the Archean era, this mass loss must have occurred over an interval of about one billion years. However, records of ion implantation from meteorites and lunar samples show that the elevated rate of solar wind flux only lasted for a period of 0.1 billion years. Observations of the young Sun-like star π Ursae Majoris matches this rate of decline in the stellar wind output, suggesting that a higher mass loss rate can not by itself resolve the paradox.\n\nExamination of Archaean sediments appears inconsistent with the hypothesis of high greenhouse concentrations. Instead, the moderate temperature range may be explained by a lower surface albedo brought about by less continental area and the \"lack of biologically induced cloud condensation nuclei\". This would have led to increased absorption of solar energy, thereby compensating for the lower solar output.\n\nUsually, the faint young Sun paradox is framed in terms of Earth's paleoclimate. However, the issue also appears in the context of the climate on ancient Mars, where apparently liquid water was present, in significant amounts (hydrological cycle, lakes, rivers, rain, possibly seas and oceans), billions of years ago. Subsequently, significant liquid water disappeared from the surface of Mars. Presently, the surface of Mars is cold and dry. The variable solar output, assuming nothing else changed, would imply colder (and drier) conditions on Mars in the ancient past than they are today, apparently contrary to the empirical evidence from Mars exploration that suggest the wetter and milder past. An explanation of the faint young Sun paradox that could simultaneously account for the observations might be that the Sun shed mass through the solar wind, though sufficient rate of mass shedding is so far unsupported by stellar observations and models.\n\nAn alternative possible explanation posits intermittent bursts of powerful greenhouse gases, like methane. Carbon dioxide alone, even at a pressure far higher than the current one, cannot explain temperatures required for presence of liquid water on early Mars.\n\n"}
{"id": "4797057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4797057", "title": "Feminist philosophy", "text": "Feminist philosophy\n\nFeminist philosophy is an approach to philosophy from a feminist perspective and also the employment of philosophical methods to feminist topics and questions. Feminist philosophy involves both reinterpreting philosophical texts and methods in order to supplement the feminist movement and attempts to criticise or re-evaluate the ideas of traditional philosophy from within a feminist framework.\n\nFeminist philosophy is united by a central concern with gender. It also typically involves some form of commitment to justice for women, whatever form that may take. Aside from these uniting features, feminist philosophy is a diverse field covering a wide range of topics from a variety of approaches. Feminist philosophers, as philosophers, are found in both the analytic and continental traditions, and a myriad of different viewpoints are taken on philosophical issues within those traditions. Feminist philosophers, as feminists, can also belong to many different varieties of feminism.\n\nFeminist philosophy can be understood to have three main functions:\n\n\nFeminist philosophy existed before the twentieth century but became labelled as such in relation to the discourse of second-wave feminism of the 1960s and 1970s. An important project of feminist philosophy has been to incorporate the diversity of experiences of women from different racial groups and socioeconomic classes, as well as of women around the globe.\n\nFeminist philosophers work within a broad range of subfields, including:\n\n\nInfluential feminist philosophers include: \n\n\nCritics of feminist philosophy are not generally critics of feminism as a political or cultural movement but of the philosophical positions put forth under the title \"feminist philosophy\". \n\nWriters and thinkers who have criticised aspects of feminist philosophy include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "203509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203509", "title": "Gerardus Heymans", "text": "Gerardus Heymans\n\nGerardus Heymans (17 April 1857, Ferwert – 18 February 1930, Groningen) was a Dutch philosopher, psychologist, a follower of Gustav Fechner's idea of psychic monism, and from 1890 to 1927 a Professor at Groningen University. His thought was influenced by the work of the Russian philosopher African Spir.\n\nHeymans studied law and philosophy in Leiden University under Jan Pieter Land, Simon Vissering and Joannes Buys. He passed his exams in public law on 23 October 1879 and on 29 June 1880 he was awarded a PhD on a dissertation in Political Economics \"Karakter en methode der staathuishoudkunde\". He continued his philosophical studies in Germany where a year later he earned a second D.Phil degree on a subject on Ethics.\n\nIn 1900 he became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, he resigned in 1919.\n\nHis student Johannes Jacobus Poortman could not agree with his monistic point of view and formulated the concept of hylic pluralism (in Dutch \"hylisch pluralisme\").\n\nOn June 11, 1944, the Heymans-Genootschap, an organisation for the continuation of his work, was established.\n\n\"This section is based on a translation of the Dutch wikipedia page\"\n\nInspired by Ernst Kretschmer and by Jung, he created a personality (or temperament) classification based on a cube with three axes: \n\n\nThis cube gives rise to eight temperaments at its apexes (names for which were inspired by Greek philosophers and physicians such as Galen and Hippocrates):\n\nThis typology was widely used in Dutch-speaking countries, but has been superseded by more modern typologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "6727454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6727454", "title": "Growth of knowledge", "text": "Growth of knowledge\n\nA term coined by Karl Popper in his work \"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\" to denote what he regarded as the main problem of methodology and the philosophy of science, i.e. to explain and promote the further growth of scientific knowledge. To this purpose, Popper advocated his theory of falsifiability, testability and testing.\n\n"}
{"id": "157393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157393", "title": "Guy Debord", "text": "Guy Debord\n\nGuy Louis Debord (; ; 28 December 1931 – 30 November 1994) was a French Marxist theorist, philosopher, filmmaker, member of the Letterist International, founder of a Letterist faction, and founding member of the Situationist International (SI). He was also briefly a member of \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\".\n\nGuy Debord (also known as \"Debord Guy\") was born in Paris in 1931. Debord's father, Martial, was a pharmacist who died due to illness when Debord was young. Debord's mother, Paulette Rossi, sent Guy to live with his grandmother in her family villa in Italy. During World War II, the Rossis left the villa and began to travel from town to town. As a result, Debord attended high school in Cannes, where he began his interest in film and vandalism. As a young man, Debord actively opposed the French war in Algeria and joined in demonstrations in Paris against it. Debord studied Law at the University of Paris, but left early and did not complete his university education. After ending his stint at the University of Paris, he began his career as a writer.\n\nDebord joined the Letterist International when he was 19. The Letterists were led dictatorially by Isidore Isou until a widely agreed upon schism ended Isou's authority. This schism gave rise to several factions of Letterists, one of which was decidedly led by Debord upon Gil Wolman's unequivocal recommendation. In the 1960s, Debord led the Situationist International group, which influenced the Paris Uprising of 1968, during which he took part in the occupation of the Sorbonne. Some consider his book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967) to be a catalyst for the uprising, although perhaps a more immediately significant text was Mustapha Khayati's \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", published in November 1966.\n\nIn 1957, the Letterist International, the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus, and the London Psychogeographical Association gathered in Cosio d'Arroscia (Cuneo), Italy, to found the Situationist International, with Debord having been the leading representative of the Letterist delegation. Initially made up of a number of well-known artists such as Asger Jorn and Pinot Gallizio, the early days of the SI were heavily focused on the formulation of a critique of art, which would serve as a foundation for the group's future entrance into further political critiques. The SI was known for a number of its interventions in the art world, which included one raid against an international art conference in Belgium during 1958 that included a large pamphlet drop and significant media coverage, all of which culminated in the arrest of various situationists and sympathizers associated with the scandal. In addition to this action, the SI endeavored to formulate industrial painting, or, painting prepared en masse with the intent of defaming the original value largely associated with the art of the period. In the course of these actions, Debord was heavily involved in the planning and logistical work associated with preparing these interventions, as well as the work for \"Internationale Situationniste\" associated with theoretical defense of the Situationist International's actions.\n\nIn the early 1960s Debord began to direct the SI toward an end of its artistic phase, eventually expelling members such as Jorn, Gallizio, Troche, and Constant—the bulk of the \"artistic\" wing of the SI—by 1965. Having established the situationist critique of art as a social and political critique, one not to be carried out in traditional artistic activities, the SI began, due in part to Debord's contributions, to pursue a more concise theoretical critique of capitalist society along Marxist lines.\n\nWith Debord's 1967 work, \"The Society of the Spectacle\", and excerpts from the group's journal, \"Internationale Situationniste\", the Situationists began to formulate their theory of the spectacle, which explained the nature of late capitalism's historical decay. In Debord's terms, situationists defined the spectacle as an assemblage of social relations transmitted via the imagery of class power, and as a period of capitalist development wherein \"all that was once lived has moved into representation\". With this theory, Debord and the SI would go on to play an influential role in the revolts of May 1968 in France, with many of the protesters drawing their slogans from Situationist tracts penned or influenced by Debord.\n\nIn 1972, Debord disbanded the Situationist International after its original members, including Asger Jorn and Raoul Vaneigem, quit or were expelled. (Vaneigem wrote a biting criticism of Debord and the International.) Debord then focused on filmmaking with financial backing from the movie mogul and publisher, Gérard Lebovici (éditions Champ Libre), until Lebovici's mysterious death. Debord was suspected of Lebovici's murder. Distraught by the accusations and his friend's death, Debord took his films and writings out of production until after his death. He had agreed to have his films released posthumously at the request of the American researcher, Thomas Y. Levin. Debord's two most recognized films are \"Society of the Spectacle\" (1973) and \"\" (1978).\n\nAfter dissolving the Situationist International, Debord spent his time reading, and occasionally writing, in relative isolation in a cottage at Champot with Alice Becker-Ho, his second wife. He continued to correspond on political and other issues, notably with Lebovici and the Italian situationist Gianfranco Sanguinetti. He focused on reading material relating to war strategies, e.g. Clausewitz and Sun Tzu, and he designed a war game with Alice Becker-Ho.\n\nDebord married twice, first to Michèle Bernstein and then Alice Becker-Ho. Debord had affairs with other women, including Michèle Mochot-Bréhat. Bernstein wrote a vaguely fictional but detailed account of the open relationships Mochot and she had with Debord in her novel \"All The King's Horses\".\n\nJust before Debord's death, he filmed (although did not publish) a documentary, \"Son art et son temps\" (\"His Art and His Times\"), an autobiography of sorts that focused primarily on social issues in Paris in the 1990s. It has been suggested that his dark depiction of this period was a suicide note of sorts. Both Debord's depression and alcohol consumption had become problematic, resulting in a form of polyneuritis. Perhaps in order to end the suffering caused by these conditions, Debord committed suicide by shooting himself in the head (or possibly heart) on 30 November 1994. This was not the first time he attempted to end his life.\n\nDebord's suicide is as controversial as it is unclear. Some assert it was a revolutionary act related to his career. Due to his involvement with the radical Situationist International (SI), as well as his sadness at 'the society as a spectacle' being considered a cliché in later life, many think that Debord felt hopeless about the very society he was trying to shed light on. Debord was said to be \"victim of the Spectacle he fought\". Among the many commentaries on Debord's demise, one scholar noted: \"Guy Debord did not kill himself. He was murdered by the thoughtlessness and selfishness of so-called scholars (primarily trendy lit-criters) who colonized his brilliant ideas and transformed his radical politics into an academic status symbol not worth the pulp it's printed on…\"\n\nOn 29 January 2009, fifteen years after his death, Christine Albanel, Minister of Culture, classified the archive of his works as a \"national treasure\" in response to a sale request by Yale University. The Ministry declared that \"he has been one of the most important contemporary thinkers, with a capital place in history of ideas from the second half of the twentieth century.\" Similarly, Debord once called his book, \"The Society of the Spectacle\", \"the most important book of the twentieth century\". He continues to be a canonical and controversial figure particularly among European scholars of radical politics and modern art.\n\nGuy Debord's best known works are his theoretical books, \"The Society of the Spectacle\" and \"Comments on the Society of the Spectacle\". In addition to these he wrote a number of autobiographical books including \"Mémoires\", \"Panégyrique\", \"Cette Mauvaise Réputation...\", and \"Considérations sur l'assassinat de Gérard Lebovici\". He was also the author of numerous short pieces, sometimes anonymous, for the journals \"Potlatch\", \"Les Lèvres Nues\", \"Les Chats Sont Verts\", and \"Internationale Situationniste\". The \"Society of the spectacle\" was written in an \"interesting prose\", unlike most writings in that time or of that nature. For Debord, the Spectacle is viewed as false representations in our real lives. The Spectacle is a materialized worldview. The spectacle 'subjects human beings to itself'.\n\nDebord was deeply distressed by the hegemony of governments and media over everyday life through mass production and consumption. He criticized both the capitalism of the West and the dictatorial communism of the Eastern bloc for the lack of autonomy allowed to individuals by both types of governmental structure. Debord postulated that Alienation had gained a new relevance through the invasive forces of the 'spectacle' - \"a social relation between people that is mediated by images\" consisting of mass media, advertisement, and popular culture. The spectacle is a self-fulfilling control mechanism for society. Debord's analysis developed the notions of \"reification\" and \"fetishism of the commodity\" pioneered by Karl Marx and Georg Lukács. Semiotics was also a major influence, particularly the work of his contemporary, Roland Barthes, who was the first to envisage bourgeois society as a spectacle, and to study in detail the political function of fashion within that spectacle. Debord's analysis of \"the spectaclist society\" probed the historical, economic, and psychological roots of the media and popular culture. Central to this school of thought was the claim that alienation is more than an emotive description or an aspect of individual psychology: rather, it is a consequence of the mercantile form of social organization that has reached its climax in capitalism, as theorized by Herbert Marcuse of the Frankfurt School. \n\nThe Situationist International (SI), a political/artistic movement organized by Debord and his colleagues and represented by a journal of the same name, attempted to create a series of strategies for engaging in class struggle by reclaiming individual autonomy from the spectacle. These strategies, including \"dérive\" and \"détournement,\" drew on the traditions of Lettrism. As founder of the SI, it has been suggested that Debord felt driven to generalize and define the values, ideas, and characteristics of the entire group, which may have contributed to his hand-picking and expulsion of members. The hierarchical and dictatorial nature of the SI existed, however, in the groups that birthed it, including the Letterists and the Surrealists.\n\nDebord's first book, \"Mémoires\", was bound with a sandpaper cover so that it would damage other books placed next to it.\n\nDebord has been the subject of numerous biographies, works of fiction, artworks, and songs, many of which are catalogued in the bibliography by Shigenobu Gonzalves, \"Guy Debord ou la Beauté du Negatif.\"\n\nOften, it is suggested that Debord was opposed to the creation of art, however, Debord writes in the Situationist International magazine (\"Contre le Cinema\") that he believes that \"ordinary\" (quotidian) people should make \"everyday\" (quotidian) art; art and creation should liberate from the spectacle, from capitalism, and from the banality of everyday life in contemporary society. In \"The Society of the Spectacle,\" Debord argues that it is the price put on art that destroys the integrity of the art object, not the material or the creation itself. It is important to note that Debord does not equate art to \"the spectacle.\"\n\nDebord began an interest in film early in his life when he lived in Cannes in the late 1940s. Debord recounted that, during his youth, he was allowed to do very little other than attend films. He said that he frequently would leave in the middle of a film screening to go home because films often bored him. Debord joined the Lettrists just as Isidore Isou was producing films and the Lettrists attempted to sabotage Charlie Chaplin's trip to Paris through negative criticism.\n\nOverall, Debord challenged the conventions of filmmaking; prompting his audience to interact with the medium instead of being passive receivers of information. As a matter of fact, his film \"Hurlements\" exclusively consists of a series of black and white screens and silence with a bit of commentary dispersed throughout. Debord directed his first film, \"Hurlements en faveur de Sade\" in 1952 with the voices of Michèle Bernstein and Gil Wolman. The film has no images represented; instead, it shows bright white when there is speaking and black when there is not. Long silences separate speaking parts. The film ends with 24 minutes of black silence. People were reported to have become angry and left screenings of this film. The script is composed of quotes appropriated from various sources and made into a montage with a sort of non-linear narrative.\n\nLater, through the financial support of Michèle Bernstein and Asger Jorn, Debord produced a second film, \"Sur le passage de quelques personnes à travers une assez courte unité de temps\", which combined scenes with his friends and scenes from mass media culture. This integration of Debord's world with mass media culture became a running motif climaxing with \"The Society of the Spectacle\". Debord wrote the book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" before writing the movie. When asked why he made the book into a movie, Debord said, \"I don't understand why this surprised people. The book was already written like a script\". Debord's last film, \"Son Art et Son Temps\", was not produced during his lifetime. It worked as a final statement where Debord recounted his works and a cultural documentary of \"his time\".\n\n\"Complete Cinematic Works\" (AK Press, 2003, translated and edited by Ken Knabb) includes the scripts for all six of Debord's films, along with related documents and extensive annotations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175081", "title": "Humanitarianism", "text": "Humanitarianism\n\nHumanitarianism is an active belief in the value of human life, whereby humans practice benevolent treatment and provide assistance to other humans, in order to better humanity for moral, altruistic and logical reasons. It is the philosophical belief in movement toward the improvement of the human race in a variety of areas, used to describe a wide number of activities relating specifically to human welfare. A practitioner is known as a humanitarian.\n\nHumanitarianism is an informal ideology of practice; it is \"the doctrine that people's duty is to promote human welfare.\" \n\nHumanitarianism is based on a view that all human beings deserve respect and dignity and should be treated as such. Therefore, humanitarians work towards advancing the well-being of humanity as a whole. It is the antithesis of the \"us vs. them\" mentality that characterizes tribalism and ethnic nationalism. Humanitarians abhor slavery, violation of basic and human rights, and discrimination on the basis of features such as skin colour, religion, ancestry, or place of birth. Humanitarianism drives people to save lives, alleviate suffering, and promote human dignity in the middle of man-made or natural disasters. Humanitarianism is embraced by movements and people across the political spectrum. The informal ideology can be summed up by a quote from Albert Schweitzer: \"Humanitarianism consists in never sacrificing a human being to a purpose.\"\n\nJean Pictet, in his commentary on The Fundamental Principles of the Red Cross, argues for the universal characteristics of humanitarianism: \n\nHistorically, humanitarianism was publicly seen in the social reforms of the late 1800s and early 1900s, following the economic turmoil of the Industrial Revolution in England. Many of the women in Great Britain who were involved with feminism during the 1900s also pushed humanitarianism. The atrocious hours and working conditions of children and unskilled laborers were made illegal by pressure on Parliament by humanitarians. The Factory Act of 1833 and the Factory Act of 1844 were some of the most significant humanitarian bills passed in Parliament following the Industrial Revolution.\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, humanitarianism was central to the work of Florence Nightingale and Henry Dunant in emergency response and in the latter case led to the founding of the Red Cross.\n\nToday, humanitarianism is particularly used to describe the thinking and doctrines behind the emergency response to humanitarian crises. In such cases it argues for a humanitarian response based on humanitarian principles, particularly the principle of humanity. \nNicholas de Torrente, Executive Director of MSF-USA writes:\n\"The most important principles of humanitarian action are humanity, neutrality, independence and impartiality, which posits the conviction that all people have equal dignity by virtue of their being human based solely on need, without discrimination among recipients. Humanitarian organizations must refrain from taking part in hostilities or taking actions that advantage one side of the conflict over another, the §action serves the interests of political, religious, or other agendas.\n\n\"These fundamental principles serve two essential purposes. They embody humanitarian action’s single-minded purpose of alleviating suffering, unconditionally and without any ulterior motive. They also serve as background document to develop operational tools that help in obtaining both the consent of communities for the presence and activities of humanitarian organizations, particularly in highly volatile contexts.\n\nPatrick Meier, first started using the term 'digital humanitarianism' after crowdmapping for the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In 2011, Paul Conneally gave a TED talk on digital humanitarianism in which he states that humanitarianism's \"origins are firmly routed in the analogue age\" with \"a major shift coming\". In 2015 he authored the book \"Digital Humanitarians: How Big Data Is Changing the Face of Humanitarian Response\".\n\nVincent Fevrier notes that \"social media can benefit the humanitarian sector [...] by providing information to give better situational awareness to organisations for broad strategic planning and logistics\" and that \"crisis mapping really emerged in 2010 during the Haiti earthquake\" with \"software and digital humanitarian platforms such as Standby Task Force, OpenStreetMap, and many others\" being active during many disasters since then.\n\nIn fact, the role of social media in digital humanitarian efforts is a considerable one. During the summer of 2010, when open fires raged across Russia, causing many to die from smog inhalation, the use of social media allowed digital humanitarians to map the areas in need of support. This is because Russians who were hoping to be evacuated were posting online about the conditions they were in which prompted thousands of Russian bloggers to coordinate relief efforts online. The digital humanitarian efforts in Russia were crucial to responding to the fires in 2010 considering the Russian government was vastly unprepared to deal with such a large-scale disaster.\n\nWithin digital humanitarianism, big data has featured strongly in efforts to improve digital humanitarian work and produces a limited understanding of how a crisis is unfolding. It has been argued that Big Data is constitutive of a social relation in which digital humanitarians claim both the formal humanitarian sector and victims of crises need the services and labor that can be provided by digital humanitarians.\n\nEarlier in 2005, a question was raised as to whether Wikipedia can be seen as digital humanitarianism.\n\n"}
{"id": "18247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247", "title": "Index of philosophy articles (A–C)", "text": "Index of philosophy articles (A–C)\n"}
{"id": "873532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873532", "title": "Jacques Ellul", "text": "Jacques Ellul\n\nJacques Ellul (; ; January 6, 1912 – May 19, 1994) was a French philosopher, sociologist, lay theologian, and professor who was a noted Christian anarchist. Ellul was a longtime Professor of History and the Sociology of Institutions on the Faculty of Law and Economic Sciences at the University of Bordeaux. A prolific writer, he authored 58 books and more than a thousand articles over his lifetime, many of which discussed propaganda, the impact of technology on society, and the interaction between religion and politics. The dominant theme of his work proved to be the threat to human freedom and religion created by modern technology. Among his most influential books are \"The Technological Society\" and \"\".\n\nConsidered by many a philosopher, Ellul was by training a sociologist who approached the question of technology and human action from a dialectical viewpoint. His constant concern was the emergence of a technological tyranny over humanity. As a philosopher and theologian, he further explored the religiosity of the technological society. In 2000 the International Jacques Ellul Society was founded by a group of former Ellul students. The society, which includes scholars from a variety of disciplines, is devoted to continuing Ellul's legacy and discussing the contemporary relevance and implications of his work.\n\nJacques Ellul was born in Bordeaux, France on 6 January 1912 to Marthe Mendes (Protestant; French-Portuguese) and Joseph Ellul (initially an Orthodox Christian, but then a Voltarian deist by conviction; born in Malta of an Italo-Maltese father and Serb mother). As a teenager he wanted to be a naval officer but his father made him read law. He married Yvette Lensvelt in 1937.\n\nEllul was educated at the universities of Bordeaux and Paris. In World War II, he was a leader in the French resistance. For his efforts to save Jews he was awarded the title \"Righteous among the Nations\" by Yad Vashem in 2001. He was a layman in the Reformed Church of France and attained a high position within it as part of the National Council.\n\nEllul was best friends with , who was also a writer from the Aquitaine region and a protagonist of the French personalism movement. They met through the Protestant Student Federation during the academic school year of 1929–1930. Both men acknowledged the great influence one had on each other. \n\nBy the early 1930s, Ellul's three primary sources of inspiration were Karl Marx, Søren Kierkegaard, and Karl Barth. Ellul was first introduced to the ideas of Karl Marx during an economics lecture course taught by Joseph Benzacar in 1929–30; Ellul studied Marx and became a prolific exegete of his theories. During this same period, he also came across the Christian existentialism of Kierkegaard. According to Ellul, Marx and Kierkegaard were his two greatest influences, and the only two authors of which he read all of their work. Also, he considered Karl Barth, who was a leader of the resistance against the German state church in World War II, the greatest theologian of the 20th century. In addition to these intellectual influences, Ellul also said that his father played a great role in his life and considered him his role model.\n\nThese ideological influences earned him both devoted followers and vicious enemies. In large measure, and especially in those of his books concerned with theological matters, Ellul restates the viewpoints held by Barth, whose polar dialectic of the Word of God, in which the Gospel both judges and renews the world, shaped Ellul's theological perspective. In \"Jacques Ellul: A Systemic Exposition\" Darrell J. Fasching claimed Ellul believed \"That which desacralizes a given reality, itself in turn becomes the new sacred reality\".\n\nIn 1932, after what he describes as \"a very brutal and very sudden conversion\", Ellul professed himself a Christian. Ellul believes he was about 17 (1929–30) and spending the summer with some friends in Blanquefort, France. While translating \"Faust\" alone in the house, Ellul knew (without seeing or hearing anything) he was in the presence of a something so astounding, so overwhelming, which entered the very center of his being. He jumped on a bike and fled, concluding eventually that he had been in the presence of God. This experience started the conversion process which Ellul said then continued over a period of years thereafter.\n\nHe was also prominent in the worldwide ecumenical movement, although he later became sharply critical of the movement for what he felt were indiscriminate endorsements of political establishments, primarily of the Left. However, he was no friendlier in his assessment of those of the Right; he fashioned an explicitly anti-political stance as an alternative to both.\n\nEllul has been credited with coining the phrase, \"Think globally, act locally.\" He often said that he was born in Bordeaux by chance, but that it was by choice that he spent almost all his academic career there.\n\nOn 19 May 1994, after a long illness, he died in his house in Pessac, just a mile or two from the University of Bordeaux campus and surrounded by those closest to him. His wife had died a few years prior, on 16 April 1991.\n\nWhile Ellul is perhaps most noted for his sociological work, especially his discussions of technology, he saw his theological work as an essential aspect of his career, and began publishing theological discussions early, with such books as \"The Presence of the Kingdom\" (1948).\n\nAlthough a son of the minority French Reformed tradition and thus a spiritual heir of thinkers like John Calvin and Ulrich Zwingli, Ellul departed substantially from Reformed doctrinal traditions, but unlike other European Protestant thinkers, utterly rejected the influence of philosophical idealism or romanticism upon his beliefs about God and human faith. In articulating his theological ideas, he mainly drew upon the corpus of works by the Swiss-German theologian Karl Barth and the critiques of European state Christianity made by Dane Søren Kierkegaard. Thus, some have considered him one of the more ardent expositors of dialectical theology, which was in decline elsewhere in the Western theological scene during Ellul's heyday. Much like Barth, Ellul had no use for either liberal theology (to him dominated by Enlightenment notions about the goodness of humanity and thus rendered puerile by its naïveté) or orthodox Protestantism (e.g., fundamentalism or scholastic Calvinism, both of which to him refuse to acknowledge the radical freedom of God and humanity) and maintained a roughly un-Catholic view of the Bible, theology, and the churches.\n\nOne particular theological movement that aroused his ire was death of God theology. Some within this movement held the conviction that the traditional Christian conceptions of God and humanity arise from a primitive consciousness, one that most civilized people have quite overcome. This line of thought affirmed the ethical teachings of Jesus but rejected the idea that he represented anything more than a highly accomplished human being. Ellul attacked this school, and practitioners of it such as Harvey Cox, as out of accord not with Christian doctrinal traditions, but reality itself, namely what he perceived as the irreducible religiosity of the human race, a devotion that has worshiped idols such as rulers, nations, and in more recent times, materialism, scientism, technology and economics. To Ellul, people use such fallen images, or powers, as a substitute for God, and are, in turn, used by them, with no possible appeal to innocence or neutrality, which, although possible theoretically, does not in fact exist. Ellul thus renovates in a non-legalistic manner the traditional Christian understanding of original sin and espouses a thoroughgoing pessimism about human capabilities, a view most sharply evidenced in his \"The Meaning of the City\". Ellul stated that one of the problems with these \"new theologies\" was:\n\nEllul espouses views on salvation, the sovereignty of God, and ethical action that appear to take a deliberately contrarian stance toward established, \"mainstream\" opinion. For instance, in the book \"What I Believe,\" he declared himself to be a Christian Universalist, writing \"that all people from the beginning of time are saved by God in Jesus Christ, that they have all been recipients of His grace no matter what they have done.\" Ellul formulated this stance not from any liberal or humanistic sympathies, but in the main from an extremely high view of God's transcendence, that God is totally free to do what God pleases. Any attempts to modify that freedom from merely human standards of righteousness and justice amount to sin, to putting oneself in God's place, which is precisely what Adam and Eve sought to do in the creation myths in Genesis. This highly unusual juxtaposition of original sin and universal salvation has repelled liberal and conservative critics and commentators alike, who charge that such views amount to antinomianism, denying that God's laws are binding upon human beings. In most of his theologically-oriented writings, Ellul effectively dismisses those charges as stemming from a radical confusion between religions as human phenomena and the unique claims of the Christian faith, which are not predicated upon human achievement or moral integrity whatsoever.\n\nThe Ellulian concept of technique is briefly defined within the \"Notes to Reader\" section of \"The Technological Society\" (1964). It is \"the totality of methods rationally arrived at and having absolute efficiency (for a given stage of development) in every field of human activity.\" He states here as well that the term technique is not solely machines, technology, or a procedure used to attain an end.\n\nWhat many consider to be Ellul's most important work, \"The Technological Society\" (1964) was originally published in French as \"La Technique: L'enjeu du siècle\" (literally, \"The Stake of the Century\"). In it, Ellul set forth seven characteristics of modern technology that make efficiency a necessity: rationality, artificiality, automatism of technical choice, self-augmentation, monism, universalism, and autonomy. The rationality of technique enforces logical and mechanical organization through division of labor, the setting of production standards, etc. And it creates an artificial system which \"eliminates or subordinates the natural world.\"\n\nRegarding technology, instead of it being subservient to humanity, \"human beings have to adapt to it, and accept total change.\" As an example, Ellul offered the diminished value of the humanities to a technological society. As people begin to question the value of learning ancient languages and history, they question those things which, on the surface, do little to advance their financial and technical state. According to Ellul, this misplaced emphasis is one of the problems with modern education, as it produces a situation in which immense stress is placed on information in our schools. The focus in those schools is to prepare young people to enter the world of information, to be able to work with computers but knowing only their reasoning, their language, their combinations, and the connections between them. This movement is invading the whole intellectual domain and also that of conscience.\n\nEllul's commitment to scrutinize technological development is expressed as such:\nThe sacred then, as classically defined, is the object of both hope and fear, both fascination and dread. Once, nature was the all-encompassing environment and power upon which human beings were dependent in life and death, and so was experienced as sacred. The Reformation desacralized the church in the name of the Bible, and the Bible became the sacred book. But since then, scientism (through Charles Darwin's theory of evolution) and reason (higher criticism and liberal theology) have desacralized the scriptures, and the sciences, particularly those applied sciences that are amenable to the aims of collective economic production (be it capitalist, socialist, or communist), have been elevated to the position of sacred in Western culture. Today, he argues, the technological society is generally held sacred (cf. Saint Steve Jobs). Since he defines technique as \"the totality of methods rationally arrived at, and having absolute efficiency (for a given stage of development) in every field of human activity\", it is clear that his sociological analysis focuses not on the society of machines as such, but on the society of \"efficient techniques\":\nIt is useless, he argues, to think that a distinction can be made between technique and its use, for techniques have specific social and psychological consequences independent of human desires. There can be no room for moral considerations in their use:\nEllul identified himself as a Christian Anarchist. Ellul explained his view in this way: \"By anarchy I mean first an absolute rejection of violence.\" And, \"...Jesus was not only a socialist but an anarchist – and I want to stress here that I regard anarchism as the fullest and most serious form of socialism.\" For him, this meant that nation-states, as the primary sources of violence in the modern era, should neither be praised nor feared, but continually questioned and challenged. For Ellul, human government is largely irrelevant in that the revelation of God contained in Scripture is sufficient and exclusive. That is, being a Christian means pledging absolute allegiance to Christ, which makes other laws redundant at best or counter to the revelation of God at worst. Despite the initial attraction of some evangelicals to his thinking because of his high view of Biblical texts (i.e., generally eschewing the historical-critical method), this position alienated some conservative Protestants. Later, he would attract a following among adherents of more ethically-compatible traditions such as the Anabaptists and the house church movement. Similar political ideas to Ellul's appear in the writings of a corresponding friend of his, the American William Stringfellow, and long-time admirer Vernard Eller, author of \"Christian Anarchy\". Ellul identified the State and political power as the Beast in the Book of Revelation.\n\nJacques Ellul discusses anarchy on a few pages in \"The Ethics of Freedom\" and in more detail within his later work, \"Anarchy & Christianity\". Although he does admit that anarchy does not seem to be a direct expression of Christian freedom, he concludes that the absolute power he sees within the current (as of 1991) nation-state can only be responded to with an absolute negative position (i.e. anarchy). He states that his intention is not to establish an anarchist society or the total destruction of the state. His initial point in \"Anarchy & Christianity\" is that he is led toward anarchy by his commitment to an absolute rejection of violence. However, Ellul does not entertain the idea that all Christians in all places and all times will refrain from violence. Rather, he insisted that violence could not be reconciled with the God of Love, and thus, true freedom. A Christian that chooses the path of violence must admit that he or she is abandoning the path of freedom and committing to the way of necessity.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War Spanish anarchist friends of Ellul's soon-to-be wife came to France in search of weapons. He tried to get some for them through an old school friend of his and claimed that this was probably the one time in his life when he was sufficiently motivated to commit an act of violence. He did not go with the anarchists primarily because he had only recently met the woman that would become his wife and did not wish to leave her.\n\nEllul states in \"The Subversion of Christianity\" that he thinks \"that the biblical teaching is clear. It always contests political power. It incites to 'counterpower,' to 'positive' criticism, to an irreducible dialogue (like that between king and prophet in Israel), to antistatism, to a decentralizing of the relation, to an extreme relativizing of everything political, to an anti-ideology, to a questioning of all that claims either power or dominion (in other words, of all things political), and finally, if we may use a modern term, to a kind of \"anarchism\" (so long as we do not relate the term to the anarchist teaching of the nineteenth century).\"\n\nEllul states in \"Violence\" that idealism serves to justify the use of violence, including:\n\n3. pacifist idealism (beliefs and lifestyles which are only possible within a larger violence-based society)\n\n4. Christian idealism (which is always concerned with the moral goodness of the human world). This leads to concepts of progressiveness and unreserved participation with good conscience in political or scientific action. \"In their idyllic world, harshness, torture, and war seem abnormal and almost incomprehensible. But it is only gross, highly visible, undeniable violence that evokes this scandalized reaction. They deny the existence of masked, secret, covert violence—insofar as this can be concealed...\"\n\nEllul believed that social justice and true freedom were incompatible. He rejected any attempt to reconcile them. He believed that a Christian could choose to join a movement for justice, but in doing so, must admit that this fight for justice is necessarily, and at the same time, a fight against all forms of freedom. While social justice provides a guarantee against the risk of bondage, it simultaneously subjects a life to necessities. Ellul believed that when a Christian decides to act it must be in a way that is specifically Christian. \"Christians must never identify themselves with this or that political or economic movement. Rather, they must bring to social movements what they alone can provide. Only so can they signalize the kingdom. So far as they act like the others—even to forward social justice, equality, etc.—I say that there is no sense and nothing specifically Christian in acting like the others. In fact the political and revolutionary attitude proper to the Christian is radically different than the attitude of others; it is specifically Christian or else it is nothing.\n\nIn \"Violence\" Ellul states his belief that only God is able to establish justice and God alone who will institute the kingdom at the end of time. He acknowledges that some have used this as an excuse to do nothing, but also points out how some death-of-God advocates use this to claim that \"we ourselves must undertake to establish social justice\". Ellul maintained that without a belief in the traditional Judeo-Christian conception of God, love and the pursuit for justice becomes selective for the only relation left is the horizontal one. Ellul asks how we are to define justice and claims that followers of death-of-God theology and/or philosophy clung to Matthew 25 stating that justice requires them to feed the poor. Ellul says that many European Christians rushed into socialist circles (and with this began to accept the movement's tactics of violence, propaganda, etc.) mistakenly thinking socialism would assure justice when in fact it only pursues justice for the chosen and/or interesting poor whose condition (as a victim of capitalism or some other socialist enemy) is consistent with the socialist ideology.\n\nEllul states in \"The Subversion of Christianity\" that \"to proclaim the class conflict and the 'classical' revolutionary struggle is to stop at the same point as those who defend their goods and organizations. This may be useful socially but it is not at all Christian in spite of the disconcerting efforts of theologies of revolution. Revelation demands this renunciation-the renunciation of illusions, of historic hopes, of references to our own abilities or numbers or sense of justice. We are to tell people and thus to increase their awareness (the offense of the ruling classes is that of trying to blind and deaden the awareness of those whom they dominate). Renounce everything in order to be everything. Trust in no human means, for God will provide (we cannot say where, when, or how). Have confidence in his Word and not in a rational program. Enter on a way on which you will gradually find answers but with no guaranteed substance. All this is difficult, much more so than recruiting guerillas, instigating terrorism, or stirring up the masses. And this is why the gospel is so intolerable, intolerable to myself as I speak, as I say all this to myself and others, intolerable for readers, who can only shrug their shoulders.\" \n\nEllul discusses these topics in detail in his landmark work, \"\". He viewed the power of the media as another example of technology exerting control over human destiny. As a mechanism of change, the media are almost invariably manipulated by special interests, whether of the market or the state.\n\nAlso within \"Propaganda\" Ellul claims that \"it is a fact that excessive data do not enlighten the reader or the listener; they drown him. He cannot remember them all, or coordinate them, or understand them; if he does not want to risk losing his mind, he will merely draw a general picture from them. And the more facts supplied, the more simplistic the image\". Additionally, people become \"caught in a web of facts they have been given. They cannot even form a choice or a judgment in other areas or on other subjects. Thus the mechanisms of modern information induce a sort of hypnosis in the individual, who cannot get out of the field that has been laid out for him by the information\". \"It is not true that he can choose freely with regard to what is presented to him as the truth. And because rational propaganda thus creates an irrational situation, it remains, above all, propaganda—that is, an inner control over the individual by a social force, which means that it deprives him of himself\".\n\nEllul agreed with who stated that \"All individual passion leads to the suppression of all critical judgment with regard to the object of that passion\".\n\nIn response to an invitation from Protestant associations, Ellul visited Germany twice (1934 and 1935). On the second visit he attended a Nazi meeting out of curiosity which influenced his later work on propaganda and its ability to unify a group.\n\n\"To throw this wager or secular faith into the boldest possible relief, Ellul places it in dialectical contrast with Biblical faith. As a dialectical contrast to \"La Technique,\" for instance, Ellul writes \"Sans feu ni lieu\" (published in 1975, although written much earlier.)\"\n\nIn explaining the significance of freedom and the purpose for resisting the enslavement of humans via acculturation (or sociological bondage), Ellul rejects the notion that this is due to some supposed supreme importance linked to humanity. He states that modern enslavement expresses how authority, signification, and value are attached to humanity and the beliefs and institutions it creates. This leads to an exaltation of the nation or state, money, technology, art, morality, the party, etc. The work of humanity is glorified and worshiped, while simultaneously enslaving humankind.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24599111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24599111", "title": "James Griffin (philosopher)", "text": "James Griffin (philosopher)\n\nJames Patrick Griffin (born 8 July 1933), is an American-born philosopher, who was White's Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford from 1996 to 2000.\n\nGriffin was educated at Choate School in Wallingford, Connecticut before studying at Yale University, obtaining a BA in 1955. He was then a Rhodes Scholar at Corpus Christi College, Oxford (1955–58), then a Senior Scholar at St Antony's College, Oxford (1958–60), obtaining his doctorate in 1960.\n\nAfter lecturing at Christ Church, Oxford from 1960 to 1966, he was appointed a Fellow of Keble College, Oxford in 1966, a position he held until 1996. He was then appointed White's Professor of Moral Philosophy at Oxford, becoming a Fellow of Corpus Christi College; he was appointed an Honorary Fellow of Keble in 1996, and is now also an Emeritus Fellow of Corpus Christi.\n\nIn 2000 Griffin became Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy at Rutgers University and in 2002 Adjunct Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics in Australia in Canberra.\n\nHis publications include:\n"}
{"id": "29609229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609229", "title": "Jesper Hoffmeyer", "text": "Jesper Hoffmeyer\n\nJesper Hoffmeyer (born 1942) is emeritus professor at the University of Copenhagen Institute of Biology, and is a leading figure in the emerging field of biosemiotics. He is President of the International Society for Biosemiotic Studies (ISBS), co-editor of the journal \"Biosemiotics\" and the Springer Book series in Biosemiotics. He has authored the book \"Biosemiotics: An Examination into the Signs of Life and the Life of Signs\", \"Signs of Meaning in the Universe\" and edited \"A Legacy for Living Systems: Gregory Bateson as Precursor to Biosemiotics\".\n\nJesper Hoffmeyer was born in Slangerup, Denmark in 1942. He received his Cand. Scient. in biochemistry from the University of Copenhagen in 1967, and from 1967-1968 he was Science Fellow at the Institut de Biochemie Génerale et Comparée of the Collège de France, Paris.\n\nHe began his teaching career in 1968 as an assistant professor at the University of Copenhagen's Institute for Biological Chemistry, where he became an associate professor in 1972, and served as the Head of the Institute from 1978-1980. Hoffmeyer was the recipient of the Poul Henningsen Award in 1985, the 1991 Mouton d’Or Award, and named a Thomas Sebeok Fellow by the Semiotic Society of America on the occasion of its 25th annual meeting in 2000.\n\nHoffmeyer was awarded a doctorate in philosophy (Dr. Phil.) at Aarhus University in 2005, and since 2007 has served as President of the International Society for Biosemiotic Studies.\n\nSince 2009, Hoffmeyer has been a professor emeritus at the University of Copenhagen.\n\nJesper Hoffmeyer's research interests have changed considerably through the years. An early engagement in the social and political consequences of his own discipline, biochemistry, led him in the 1970s to take up studies of the technological, ecological and historical dimensions of science. The results of these investigations can be found in his 1982 book \"Samfundets naturhistorie\" (The Natural History of Society).\n\nAt the same time, Hoffmeyer also embarked upon a parallel track of inquiry, based on a growing awareness that the reductionist tendencies of modern biology and science systematically legitimized and guided the technological horizon towards developments that were inherently damaging to natural systems, including that of human health. This inquiry led him towards questions of theoretical biology and philosophy. Eventually these two research tracks ran together, when, in a collaboration with Claus Emmeche, he initiated an analysis of the concepts of information in both its bio-ontological dimension, as well as in its applied contexts dealing with biological (e.g. genetic) and cultural information, and the then-upcoming 'smart' information and biotechnologies\n\nHoffmeyer traces much of the development of his thinking during this period to the semiotic traditions of the late 1980s, as well as to such scientific systems theorists as Gregory Bateson, Michael Polanyi, Anthony Wilden, Howard Pattee and Peder Voetmann Christiansen. Eventually making the acquaintance of Thomas Sebeok in the United States, Thure von Uexküll in Germany and Kalevi Kull in Estonia, by the beginning of the 1990s, Hoffmeyer had formulated a new programme for a scientific biology that would define life as a signbased phenomenon. Hoffmeyer's first comprehensive essay outlining this of biosemiotics and its implication for a non-dualist understanding of the embodied self was his \"Signs of Meaning in the Universe\" (in Danish, \"En snegl på vejen\", 1993).\n\nSince 2001, when the yearly annual international ‘Gatherings in Biosemiotics’ conferences began, Hoffmeyer has been a central figure in establishing biosemiotics as a scientific cross-disciplinary field, assembling scientists and humanities scholars to jointly investigate how a semiotic analysis can inform current biological thinking, and how the findings\nof biology provide general semiotics with a firmer ground for the naturalization of 'meaning'.\n\nIn 2005, Hoffmeyer was conferred with a Danish doctoral degree for his treatise \"Biosemiotics: An Examination into the Signs of Life and the Life of Signs\". Translated into an English-language edition in 2008, this work examines the semiotics of living nature, from the origin of life with its self-organizing code-duality in evolution and development, to the complex endosemiosis of living bodies, to the ‘semiotic niches’ in ecosystems, and the species-specific peculiarities of human semiosis, such as language.\n\nSemiotic freedom. The increase in 'depth' of meaning that can be communicated or interpreted.\n\nSemiome. In biosemiotics: the entirety of semiotic tool sets available to the species.\n\nSemiotic scaffolding operates by assuring higher level performance through semiotic interactions inside a living system or between living systems and cue elements in their environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3565103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3565103", "title": "John Heron", "text": "John Heron\n\nJohn Heron (born 1928) is a pioneer in the creation of a participatory research method in the social sciences, called co-operative inquiry, which was based on his work in 1968-69 on the phenomenology of social encounter, and which has been applied by practitioners in many fields of professional and personal development. He is committed to the process of co-operative inquiry, in whatever field it is applied, as a basic form of relational and participative spiritual practice.\n\nHeron was the founder and director of the Human Potential Research Project, University of Surrey from 1970 to 1977, the first university-based centre for humanistic and transpersonal psychology and education in Europe. He was Assistant Director of the British Postgraduate Medical Federation at the University of London from 1977 to 1985, in charge of an innovative programme of personal and professional development for hospital doctors and GPs, including a co-operative inquiry into whole-person medicine, out of which the British Holistic Medical Association was formed. He was the director of the International Centre for Co-operative Inquiry at Volterra, Tuscany, Italy, from 1990 to 2000, where radical forms of spiritual inquiry were developed. He is co-director of the South Pacific Centre for Human Inquiry at Auckland, New Zealand from 2000 to the present, focussing on long-term co-operative inquiries into charismatic and relational spiritual practices.\n\nHeron is a group facilitator and trainer in the fields of co-counselling (in 1974 he was one of the founders of Co-Counselling International after a split from the Re-evaluation Counseling of Harvey Jackins), co-operative inquiry and new paradigm research, educational and staff development, group facilitation and interactive skills, management development, personal and transpersonal development, professional development in medicine, psychotherapy and the helping professions. He is also a researcher and author.\n\nHeron was a group facilitator on UK TV programmes on the following topics: medical stress (ITV, 1981), racism (BBC2, 1985), AIDS (Channel 4, 1987), Salman Rushdie's \"The Satanic Verses\" (BBC2, 1990), divorce (BBC2, 1991), parents and teenagers (BBC1, 1994).\n\nOne of the founders in the UK of each of the following: Association of Humanistic Psychology Practitioners, Co-counselling International, Institute for the Development of Human Potential, New Paradigm Research Group, Research Council for Complementary Medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4225206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225206", "title": "Keith Yandell", "text": "Keith Yandell\n\nKeith Yandell is a philosopher of religion who has become notable by his teaching and his writings.\n\nYandell began teaching in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin, Madison in 1966. He had become the Julius R. Weinberg Professor of Philosophy when he retired in 2011.\n\nAfter his retirement from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Yandell became an Affiliate Professor of Philosophy at the \nTrinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, IL. \n\nYandell earned a BA and an MA from Wayne State University. He received a PhD from, Ohio State University.\nHis fields of expertise include: History of Modern Philosophy, Metaphysics, Philosophy of Religion, Ethics, Indian Philosophy.\n\nYandell has over 60 articles and reviews in journals listed in EBSCO. His books including those co-authored or edited follow:\n\"Free Will and Evil\" (Wayne State, 1960)\n\"Metaphysical Systems and Decision Procedures\" (Ohio State, 1966)\n\"Basic Issues in the Philosophy of Religion\" (Allyn and Bacon, 1971)\n\"Problems in Philosophical Inquiry: Theory of Knowledge\" (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1971)\n\"Metaphysics\" (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1971)\n\"God, Man, and Religion\" (McGraw-Hill, 1973)\n\"Christianity and Philosophy\" (Eerdmans, 1984)\n\"Hume's Inexplicable Mystery: His Views on Religion\" (Temple University, 1990)\n\"The Epistemology of Religious Experience\" (Cambridge University Press, 1994)\n\"Philosophy of Religion: A Contemporary Introduction\" (Routledge, 1999)\n\"Religion and Public Culture: Encounters and Identities in Modern South India\" (Routledge, 2000)\n\"Faith and Narrative\" (Oxford University Press, 2001)\n\"Buddhism: A Christian Exploration and Appraisal\" (InterVarsity Press/Paternoster, 2009) \n\"Spirituality Without God?: Buddhist Enlightenment and Christian Salvation\" (Paternoster, 2009)\n\"The Soul (Defence of the Evidential Value of)\" (Ashgate, 2015)\n"}
{"id": "8562054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8562054", "title": "Kora (pilgrimage)", "text": "Kora (pilgrimage)\n\nKora (, THL Simplified Phonetic Transcription: kor ra) is a transliteration of a Tibetan word that means \"circumambulation\" or \"revolution\". Kora is both a type of pilgrimage and a type of meditative practice in the Tibetan Buddhist or Bon traditions. A \"Kora\" is performed by the practitioner making a circumambulation around a sacred site or object, typically as a constituent part of a pilgrimage, ceremony, celebration or ritual. In broader terms, it is a term that is often used to refer to the entire pilgrimage experience in the Tibetan regions.\n\nFor \"pilgrimage\", Tibetans generally use the term \"nékor\" (), \"circling around an abode\" (, THL: né), referring to the general practice of circumambulation as a way of relating to such places. In the context of kora, the \"né\" or \"néchen\" () is rendered as \"empowered\", \"sacred\" or \"holy\" place/object, and the \"né\" is credited with the ability to transform those that circumambulate it. Aspects of both the natural and the man-made world are also considered to be the \"né\" of a wide variety of nonhuman beings such as iṣṭadevatās or ḍākinīs.\n\n\"Né\" generally fall into the following four types:\n\n\n\nThe pilgrim is known as a \"né korwa\" \"one who circles a \"né\"\" (), thus defining them by the ritual circumambulation(s) they perform as part of their journey. Pilgrims seek to generate merit (see Merit (Buddhism) by performing koras, which are a major merit generator. The more potent the power place destination the greater the merit. A kora is performed by walking or repeatedly prostrating oneself. Prostration (e.g., versus walking), circumambulating repeatedly or an auspicious number of times all produce greater merit. Kora may be also be performed while spinning prayer wheels, chanting mantra, or counting rosary beads. Buddhist pilgrims most typically emulate the path of the sun and circumambulate in a clockwise direction. Bön pilgrims traditionally circumambulate counterclockwise.\n\n"}
{"id": "50373480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373480", "title": "Kris (magazine)", "text": "Kris (magazine)\n\nKris (meaning Crisis in English) was a culture magazine published in Sweden. It existed from 1975 to 1997. \n\nThe magazine was established by Stig Larsson and Åke Sandgren in Umeå in 1975. It was first named \"CODE\" and it was renamed as \"Kris\" in 1977. The magazine was published between 1977 and 1997 by Föreningen KRIS. \n\nThe magazine featured articles on critique, philosophy and æsthetics. Horace Engdahl and Anders Olsson were part of the editorial staff.\n"}
{"id": "56012095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56012095", "title": "Letter on Humanism", "text": "Letter on Humanism\n\nLetter on Humanism () refers to a famous letter written by Martin Heidegger in December 1946 in response to a series of questions by Jean Beaufret (10 November 1946) about the development of French existentialism. Heidegger reworked the letter for publication in 1947. He distanced himself from Sartre's position and existentialism in general in this letter.\n\nSartre, popularly understood as misreading Heidegger (an understanding supported by Heidegger's essay \"Letter on Humanism\" which responds to Sartre's famous address, \"Existentialism is a Humanism\"), employs modes of being in an attempt to ground his concept of freedom ontologically by distinguishing between being-in-itself and being-for-itself.\n\nIn \"Letter on Humanism\", Heidegger criticized Sartre's existentialism:\n\nExistentialism says existence precedes essence. In this statement he is taking \"existentia\" and \"essentia\" according to their metaphysical meaning, which, from Plato's time on, has said that \"essentia\" precedes \"existentia\". Sartre reverses this statement. But the reversal of a metaphysical statement remains a metaphysical statement. With it, he stays with metaphysics, in oblivion of the truth of Being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3116539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116539", "title": "Levon Shant", "text": "Levon Shant\n\nLevon Shant (; born Levon Nahashbedian, then changed to Levon Seghposian; 6 April 1869 – 29 November 1951) was an Armenian playwright, novelist, poet and founder of the Hamazkayin Armenian Educational and Cultural Society.\n\nHe was a lifelong member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation and is the namesake of the ARF's Shant Student Association. He attended Armenian school at Scutari (Uskudar) until 1884 and then went to the Gevorgian seminary at Echmiadzin until 1891. He returned to Constantinople to teach and write; his first literary work was accepted by the daily Hairenik of that city in 1891. He departed to Germany in 1893 for six years to study science, child psychology, education, literature and history in the universities of Leipzig, Jena and Munich. Afterwards he returned to Constantinople, where he continued working as a teacher. As an author, he was most renowned for his plays: Hin Astvadsner ('Ancient Gods', 1908), Kaisre ('The Emperor', 1914), Inkads Berdi Ishkhanuhin ('The Princess of the Fallen Castle', 1921), Oshin Payl (1929). He was one of the vice-presidents of the Armenian Parliament during the Republic and led a delegation to Moscow in April 1920 to negotiate with the communist regime. He left Armenia after its sovietization in 1921, and settled in Paris, Cairo, and eventually in Beirut. He was one of the founders of the Hamazkayin cultural association in Cairo (1928). The next year, he was founding principal of the Nshan Palandjian Djemaran (College), Beirut, from 1929 until his death. One of many authors banned in Armenia for his political views, a volume of his plays was exceptionally published in Soviet Armenia in 1968. Levon Shant is regarded by many as the greatest Armenian playwright. His plays The Emperor and Ancient Gods remain among the most frequently staged Armenian dramas. The latter revolutionized the Armenian literary world when it was premiered in Tiflis in 1913. Translated into English, German, Italian, French, and Russian, it was directed by Konstantin Stanislavski in 1917.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40360200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40360200", "title": "Mauro Carbone", "text": "Mauro Carbone\n\nMauro Carbone (Mantua, 8 December 1956) is an Italian philosopher. Since 2009, he has been a full professor at the Faculté de Philosophie of the Jean Moulin University Lyon 3 in Lyon, France. Since 2012, he has been a senior member of the Institut Universitaire de France.\n\nAfter studying at the University of Bologna and the University of Padua, Carbone received his PhD in 1990 at the \"Institut Supérieur de Philosophie\" of the Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium, with a dissertation entitled \"À partir de Cézanne et de Proust. La philosophie de l'expression de Maurice Merleau-Ponty\" [Moving from Cézanne and from Proust: Maurice Merleau-Ponty’s philosophy of expression], awarded by the Royal Academy of Belgium. In 1993 he became a lecturer at the University of Milan, Italy, where in 2001 he was nominated associate professor of aesthetics. Three years later he inaugurated the chair of contemporary aesthetics, which he held until 2009.\n\nCarbone is the founder of the journal \"Chiasmi International. Trilingual Studies concerning Merleau-Ponty’s Thought\", which he co-directed since its foundation in 1999.\n\nHe has been visiting professor in France, in Mexico, at The New School for Social Research of New York (2007), at the Beida Peking University (2009) and at the Chinese University of Hong Kong (2010). During the Spring Semester 2005 he has been fellow of the Italian Academy for Advances Studies at Columbia University in New York and during the Spring Semester 2011 he was a distinguished visiting international scholar at the University of Rhode Island.\n\nIn 2005 he wrote, in collaboration with Paolo Bignamini, \"Condannati alla libertà\" [Condemned to freedom], a theatrical adaptation of Jean-Paul Sartre's novel \"The Age of Reason\", which was staged that same year.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2000 he was a member of the Board of Directors of the International Symposium on Phenomenology, and from 2008 to 2010 he co-founded and co-directed the ENCFP (European Network in Contemporary French Philosophy) together with Miguel de Beistegui, University of Warwick (UK), Arnold Davidson, Università degli Studi di Pisa (Italy) and Frédéric Worms, École Normale Supérieure (France).\n\nSince 2002 Carbone has been the director of the Italian book series \"L’occhio e lo spirito. Estetica, fenomenologia, testi plurilingui\" and co-director of the French book series \"L’œil et l’esprit. Esthétique, phénoménologie, textes plurilingues\" for the publishing house Mimesis. He is currently the director of the Master Program in Aesthetics and Visual Cultures at the philosophy faculty at the Jean Moulin University Lyon 3, France.\n\nCarbone initially focused his research on the phenomenology of Maurice Merleau-Ponty, specifically the intersection of perceptive and artistic experiences through the examination of Merleau-Ponty's parallel interest in the pictorial work of Paul Cézanne and the literary work of Marcel Proust. His first work published in French, \"La visibilité de l’invisible. Merleau-Ponty entre Cézanne et Proust\" (2001), was praised for its \"mosaic\" of voices - Franco Paracchini, in a review in \"Les Études philosophiques\", distinguished the voices of Merleau-Ponty, of Carbone, and later of Proust and Cézanne, and admired the overview of the landscape of Merleau-Ponty's thought created by Carbone.\nSuch a direction of study has broadened, at first, to a larger consideration of phenomenology, and, later on, to that of the post-structuralist thought developed in France, even if still remaining bound to the parallel interest towards the philosophical reflection on modern painting and literature. Such a widening has led Carbone’s studies to facing gnoseological and ontological topics, pushing him to examine the traditional relationship between philosophy and “non-philosophy”.\n\nMore recently, such directions have turned out in a reflection on the peculiar status of images in our time, on the possible ethical and political implications of our relationship with them, and on the ontological dimension of the “Being in common” that would find its expression in such implications. This reflection is currently devoted to examine the influence of screens – understood as optical apparatuses by now dominant – on our collective and personal individuation.\n\nMauro Carbone has edited, among other works, the Italian edition of four Merleau-Ponty writings (\"Il visibile e l’invisibile\", Bompiani, Milano, 1993; \"Linguaggio Storia Natura. Corsi al Collège de France\", 1952-1961, Bompiani, Milano, 1995; \"La natura. Lezioni al Collège de France 1956-1960\", Milano, Raffaello Cortina, 1996, \"È possible oggi la filosofia? Lezioni al Collège de France\", 1958-1959 e 1960-1961, Milano, Raffaello Cortina, 2003, 20112), of a work by Jan Patočka \"Saggi eretici sulla filosofia della storia\" (Torino, Einaudi, 2008) and one by Ernst Cassirer, \"Eidos ed Eidolon. Il problema del bello e dell’arte nei dialoghi di Platone\" (Milano, Raffaello Cortina, 1998, 20092).\n\nThe main influence on Mauro Carbone’s thought has been that of Maurice Merleau-Ponty. Carbone has developed in a theoretically personal way certain notions that the French philosopher only managed to sketch before his sudden death. Among these, the notion of “sensible idea” stands out, meant as the becoming essence inaugurated in our encounter with the sensible, and from the sensible remaining inseparable, lying at work in a peculiar retroflected temporality that Carbone, along with Merleau-Ponty, calls “mythical time”.\n\nCarbone's two volumes \"Ai confini dell'esprimibile. Merleau-Ponty a partire da Cézanne e da Proust\" (1990) and \"Una deformazione senza precedenti. Marcel Proust e le idee sensibili\" (2004) form a diptych devoted to the notion of \"sensible idea\". In the latter volume, Carbone synthesizes the philosophical implications of the above-mentioned notions in the original idea of “unprecedented deformation”, by which he means to characterize the peculiar status that, in his opinion, the deformation assumes in the art of the Twentieth Century in order to leave behind the mimetic principle of representation and thus the conception of model meant as a preliminary given form.\n\nAccording to what Leonard Lawlor wrote in a review in \"Continental Philosophy Review\", \"\"An Unprecedented Deformation\" seems to open onto something like a meta- or super-philosophical level\". In other words, with this book, Carbone develops also a critical thought about the status of Philosophy itself, reconsidering the way we actually think.\n\nLater on, another notion began to connect to the above-mentioned ones, namely, that of mutual precession between imaginary and real, which Carbone proposed – by developing a Merleau-Pontian formulation – so as to account for the producing of the peculiar retroflected temporality called mythical time. Moreover, Carbone attempted to develop the ethical and political implications of the conception of memory connected to the idea of unprecedented deformation in his reflection on the event of 9/11. Carbone highlighted the irreducible visual feature of 9/11, and thus approached it from an aesthetic perspective. He also searched the ontological roots of such ethical and political implications in the thought of Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Jan Patocka, Gilbert Simondon and Gilles Deleuze, proposing the notions of “a-individual” and “dividual” so as to point out the intimate relational issue of any identity (and hence its becoming and its divisibility).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1396131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396131", "title": "Meditations", "text": "Meditations\n\nMeditations (, literally \"things to one's self\") is a series of personal writings by Marcus Aurelius, Roman Emperor from 161 to 180 AD, recording his private notes to himself and ideas on Stoic philosophy.\n\nMarcus Aurelius wrote the 12 books of the \"Meditations\" in Koine Greek as a source for his own guidance and self-improvement. It is possible that large portions of the work were written at Sirmium, where he spent much time planning military campaigns from 170 to 180. Some of it was written while he was positioned at Aquincum on campaign in Pannonia, because internal notes tell us that the first book was written when he was campaigning against the Quadi on the river Granova (modern-day Hron) and the second book was written at Carnuntum.\n\nIt is unlikely that Marcus Aurelius ever intended the writings to be published and the work has no official title, so \"Meditations\" is one of several titles commonly assigned to the collection. These writings take the form of quotations varying in length from one sentence to long paragraphs.\n\nThe \"Meditations\" is divided into 12 books that chronicle different periods of Marcus' life. Each book is not in chronological order and it was written for no one but himself. The style of writing that permeates the text is one that is simplified, straightforward, and perhaps reflecting Marcus' Stoic perspective on the text. Depending on the English translation, Marcus' style is not viewed as anything regal or belonging to royalty, but rather a man among other men, which allows the reader to relate to his wisdom. \n\nA central theme to \"Meditations\" is the importance of analyzing one's judgment of self and others and the development of a cosmic perspective. As he said \"You have the power to strip away many superfluous troubles located wholly in your judgment, and to possess a large room for yourself embracing in thought the whole cosmos, to consider everlasting time, to think of the rapid change in the parts of each thing, of how short it is from birth until dissolution, and how the void before birth and that after dissolution are equally infinite\". He advocates finding one's place in the universe and sees that everything came from nature, and so everything shall return to it in due time. Another strong theme is of maintaining focus and to be without distraction all the while maintaining strong ethical principles such as \"Being a good man\".\n\nHis Stoic ideas often involve avoiding indulgence in sensory affections, a skill which will free a man from the pains and pleasures of the material world. He claims that the only way a man can be harmed by others is to allow his reaction to overpower him. An order or \"logos\" permeates existence. Rationality and clear-mindedness allow one to live in harmony with the \"logos\". This allows one to rise above faulty perceptions of \"good\" and \"bad\" – things out of your control like fame and health are (unlike things in your control) irrelevant and neither good nor bad.\n\nMarcus Aurelius has been lauded for his capacity \"to write down what was in his heart just as it was, not obscured by any consciousness of the presence of listeners or any striving after effect\". Gilbert Murray compares the work to Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Confessions\" and St. Augustine's \"Confessions\". Though Murray criticizes Marcus for the \"harshness and plainness of his literary style\", he finds in his \"Meditations\" \"as much intensity of feeling...as in most of the nobler modern books of religion, only [with] a sterner power controlling it\". \"People fail to understand Marcus\", he writes, \"not because of his lack of self-expression, but because it is hard for most men to breathe at that intense height of spiritual life, or, at least, to breathe soberly\".\n\nD.A. Rees calls the \"Meditations\" \"unendingly moving and inspiring\", but does not offer them up as works of original philosophy. Bertrand Russell found them contradictory and inconsistent, evidence of a \"tired age\" where \"even real goods lose their savour\". Using Marcus as an example of greater Stoic philosophy, he found their ethical philosophy to contain an element of \"sour grapes\". \"We can't be happy, but we can be good; let us therefore pretend that, so long as we are good, it doesn't matter being unhappy\". Both Russell and Rees find an element of Marcus' Stoic philosophy in the philosophical system of Immanuel Kant.\n\nGerman philosopher Georg Hegel offers a critique of Stoicism that follows similar lines, albeit covering different trajectories. In his \"Phenomenology of Spirit\", Hegel attacks the preoccupation with the inner self as a severing, fatalistic barrier to consciousness. A philosophy that reduces all states of harm or injustice to emotional states \"could only appear on the scene in a time of universal fear and bondage.\" The Stoic refusal to meet the world is anathema to Life, a central value in Hegel's philosophical work: \"whether on the throne or in chains, in the utter dependence of its individual existence, its aim is to be free, and to maintain that lifeless indifference which steadfastly withdraws from the bustle of existence...\" M.L. Clarke concurs in his historical work on philosophical ideas, \"The Roman Mind\", where he states \"[p]olitical liberty could hardly flourish after so many years of despotism and the indifference to public affairs which it bred. And philosophy fostered the same spirit.\"\n\nIn the Introduction to his 1964 translation of \"Meditations\", the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact of Stoicism on Christianity. Michael Grant called Marcus Aurelius \"the noblest of all the men who, by sheer intelligence and force of character, have prized and achieved goodness for its own sake and not for any reward\". Gregory Hays' translation of \"Meditations\" for The Modern Library made the bestseller list for two weeks in 2002.\n\nThe book has been described as a prototype of reflective practice by Seamus Mac Suibhne. United States President Bill Clinton said that \"Meditations\" is his favorite book, and United States Secretary of Defense James Mattis carried his own personal copy of \"The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius\" throughout his deployments as a Marine Corps officer in the Persian Gulf, Afghanistan and Iraq.\n\nThe \"editio princeps\" of the original Greek (the first print version) was published by Conrad Gessner and his cousin Andreas in 1559. Both it and the accompanying Latin translation were produced by Wilhelm Xylander. His source was a manuscript from Heidelberg University, provided by Michael Toxites. By 1568, when Xylander completed his second edition, he no longer had access to the source and it has been lost ever since. The first English translation was published in 1634 by Meric Casaubon.\n\nSome popular English translations include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13420314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13420314", "title": "Moving the goalposts", "text": "Moving the goalposts\n\nMoving the goalposts (or shifting the goalposts) is a metaphor, derived from goal-based sports, that means to change the criterion (goal) of a process or competition while it is still in progress, in such a way that the new goal offers one side an intentional advantage or disadvantage.\n\nThis phrase is British in origin and derives from sports that use goalposts. The figurative use alludes to the perceived unfairness in changing the goal one is trying to achieve after the process one is engaged in (e.g., a game of football) has already started.\n\nMoving the goalposts is an informal fallacy in which evidence presented in response to a specific claim is dismissed and some other (often greater) evidence is demanded. That is, after an attempt has been made to score a goal, the goalposts are moved to exclude the attempt. The problem with changing the rules of the game is that the meaning of the result is changed, too.\n\nSome include this metaphor as description of the tactics of harassment. In such cases, a re-defining of another's goals may in reality be intentionally devised so as to assure that an athlete, for example, will ultimately never be able to finally achieve the ever shifting goals.\n\nIn workplace bullying, shifting the goalposts is a conventional tactic in the process of humiliation.\n\nMoving the goalposts may also refer to feature creep, in which the completion of a product like software is not acknowledged because an evolving list of required features changes over time, which in extreme cases may even require rewriting the entire program. Thus, the goal of \"completing\" the product for a client may never occur.\n\nThe term is often used in business or politics to imply bad faith on the part of those setting goals for others to meet, by arbitrarily making additional demands just as the initial ones are about to be met. Accusations of this form of abuse tend to occur when there are unstated assumptions that are obvious to one party but not to another.\n\nKarl Popper coined the concept conventionalist twist or conventionalist stratagem in Conjectures and Refutations with similar use with this fallacy but in the context of the falsifiability of certain scientific theories.\n\nIn 2009, Danish association football goalkeeper Kim Christensen was recorded on camera moving the goalposts in order to gain advantage over the opposing team. Christensen's moving the goalposts was discovered by a referee about 20 minutes into the game, but Christensen did not suffer a suspension or any fines for his actions.\n\nDeliberately moving the goalposts constitutes a professional foul in rugby football and an unfair act in gridiron football. The officials are granted \"carte blanche\" to assess whatever penalty they see fit, including awarding the score for any attempt at a goal missed or invalidating any goal scored as a result of the moved goalposts. In both rugby and gridiron, goalposts are anchored into the ground; the distance they can be moved (most easily in gridiron by pulling down on one end of the crossbar to tilt both posts either to the left or the right) is far more restricted.\n\nMoving goalposts is common in ice hockey, where physical contact with the posts is common. If the goalposts are knocked off their moorings in the course of play, play is stopped until the goal is put back in place. If the goalposts are deliberately moved to stop an opponent from scoring, the opponent may be granted a penalty shot; if the goaltender does so, the goaltender may be ejected from the game, a rule imposed at most levels of the game in 2014 after David Leggio deliberately moved the goalposts during a two-person breakaway, believing he would have a better chance of stopping a penalty shot. Leggio later used the tactic in the Deutsche Eishockey Liga, where he had played since 2015; that league had not yet outlawed the maneuver. but promptly did so after Leggio's first attempt at using the tactic. The DEL instead automatically awards the goal to the opposing team.\n"}
{"id": "21178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21178", "title": "Non-cognitivism", "text": "Non-cognitivism\n\nNon-cognitivism is the meta-ethical view that ethical sentences do not express propositions (i.e., statements) and thus cannot be true or false (they are not truth-apt). A noncognitivist denies the cognitivist claim that \"moral judgments are capable of being objectively true, because they describe some feature of the world\". If moral statements cannot be true, and if one cannot know something that is not true, noncognitivism implies that moral knowledge is impossible.\n\nNon-cognitivism entails that non-cognitive attitudes underlie moral discourse and this discourse therefore consists of non-declarative speech acts, although accepting that its surface features may consistently and efficiently work as if moral discourse were cognitive. The point of interpreting moral claims as non-declarative speech acts is to explain what moral claims mean if they are neither true nor false (as philosophies such as logical positivism entail). Utterances like \"Boo to killing!\" and \"Don't kill\" are not candidates for truth or falsity, but have non-cognitive meaning.\n\nEmotivism, associated with A. J. Ayer, the Vienna Circle and C. L. Stevenson, suggests that ethical sentences are primarily emotional expressions of one's own attitudes and are intended to influence the actions of the listener. Under this view, \"Killing is wrong\" is translated as \"Killing, boo!\" or \"I disapprove of killing.\"\n\nA close cousin of emotivism, developed by R. M. Hare, is called universal prescriptivism. Prescriptivists interpret ethical statements as being universal \"imperatives\", prescribing behavior for all to follow. According to prescriptivism, \nphrases like \"Thou shalt not murder!\" or \"Do not steal!\" are the clearest expressions of morality, while reformulations like \"Killing is wrong\" tend to obscure the meaning of moral sentences.\n\nOther forms of non-cognitivism include Simon Blackburn's quasi-realism and Allan Gibbard's norm-expressivism.\n\nArguments for prescriptivism focus on the \"function\" of normative statements.\n\nPrescriptivists argue that factual statements and prescriptions are totally different, because of different expectations of change in cases of a clash between word and world.\nIn a descriptive sentence, if one premises that \"red is a number\" then according to the rules of English grammar said statement would be false. Since said premise describes the objects \"red\" and \"number\", anyone with an adequate understanding of English would notice the falseness of such description and the falseness of said statement. However, if the norm \"thou shalt not kill!\" is uttered, and this premise is negated (by the fact of a person being murdered), the speaker is not to change his sentence upon observation of this into \"kill other people!\", but is to reiterate the moral outrage of the act of killing. Adjusting statements based upon objective reality and adjusting reality based upon statements are contrary uses of language, so descriptive statement are a different kind of sentences than norms. If truth is understood according to correspondence theory, the question of the truth or falsity of sentences not contingent upon external phenomena cannot be tested (see tautologies).\n\nSome cognitivists argue that some expressions like \"courageous\" have both a factual as well as a normative component which cannot be distinguished by analysis. Prescriptivists argue that according to context, either the factual or the normative component of the meaning is dominant. The sentence \"Hero A behaved courageously\" is wrong, if A ran away in the face of danger. But the sentence \"Be brave and fight for the glory of your country!\" has no truth value and cannot be falsified by someone who doesn't join the army.\n\nPrescriptivism is also supported by the actual way of speaking. Many moral statements are de facto uttered as recommendations or commands, e.g. when parents or teachers forbid children to do wrong actions. The most famous moral ideas are prescriptions: the Ten Commandments, the command of charity, the categorical imperative, and the Golden Rule command to do or not to do something rather than state that something is or is not the case.\n\nPrescriptivism can fit the theist idea of morality as obedience towards god. It is however different from the cognitivist supernaturalism which interprets morality as subjective will of god, while prescriptivism claims that moral rules are universal and can be found by reason alone without reference to a god.\n\nAccording to Hare, prescriptivists cannot argue that amoralists are logically wrong or contradictive. Everyone can choose to follow moral commands or not. This is the human condition according to the Christian reinterpretation of the Choice of Heracles. According to prescriptivism, morality is not about knowledge (of moral facts), but about character (to choose to do the right thing). Actors cannot externalize their responsibility and freedom of will towards some moral truth in the world, virtuous people don't need to wait for some cognition to choose what's right.\n\nPrescriptivism is also supported by imperative logic, in which there are no truth values for imperatives, and by the idea of the naturalistic fallacy: even if someone could prove the existence of an ethical property and express it in a factual statement, he could never derive any command from this statement, so the search for ethical properties is pointless.\n\nAs with other anti-realist meta-ethical theories, non-cognitivism is largely supported by the argument from queerness: ethical properties, if they existed, would be different from any other thing in the universe, since they have no observable effect on the world. People generally have a negative attitude towards murder, which presumably keeps most of us from murdering. But does the actual \"wrongness\" of murder play an \"independent\" role? Is there any evidence that there is a property of wrongness that some types of acts have? Some people might think that the strong feelings we have when we see or consider a murder provide evidence of murder's wrongness. But it is not difficult to explain these feelings without saying that \"wrongness\" was their cause. Thus there is no way of discerning which, if any, ethical properties exist; by Occam's razor, the simplest assumption is that none do. The non-cognitivist then asserts that, since a proposition about an ethical property would have no referent, ethical statements must be something else.\n\nArguments for emotivism focus on what normative statements \"express\" when uttered by a speaker. A person who says that killing is wrong certainly expresses her disapproval of killing. Emotivists claim that this is \"all\" she does, that the statement \"killing is wrong\" is not a truth-apt declaration, and that the burden of evidence is on the cognitivists who want to show that in addition to expressing disapproval, the claim \"killing is wrong\" is also true. Emotivists ask whether there really is evidence that killing is wrong. We have evidence that Jupiter has a magnetic field and that birds are oviparous, but as yet, we do not seem to have found evidence of moral properties, such as \"goodness\". Emotivists ask why, without such evidence, we should think there \"is\" such a property. Ethical intuitionists think the evidence comes not from science or reason but from our own feelings: good deeds make us feel a certain way and bad deeds make us feel very differently. But is this enough to show that there are genuinely good and bad deeds? Emotivists think not, claiming that we do not need to postulate the existence of moral \"badness\" or \"wrongness\" to explain why considering certain deeds makes us feel disapproval; that all we really observe when we introspect are feelings of disapproval. Thus the emotivist asks why not adopt the simple explanation and say that this is all there is, rather than insist that some intrinsic \"badness\" (of murder, for example) must be causing feelings when a simpler explanation is available.\n\nOne argument against non-cognitivism is that it ignores the external \"causes\" of emotional and prescriptive reactions. If someone says, \"John is a good person,\" something about John must have inspired that reaction. If John gives to the poor, takes care of his sick grandmother, and is friendly to others, and these are what inspire the speaker to think well of him, it is plausible to say, \"John is a good person because he gives to the poor, takes care of his sick grandmother, and is friendly to others.\" If, in turn, the speaker responds positively to the idea of giving to the poor, then some aspect of that idea must have inspired a positive response; one could argue that that aspect is also the basis of its goodness.\n\nAnother argument is the \"embedding problem.\" Consider the following sentences:\n\nAttempts to translate these sentences in an emotivist framework seem to fail (e.g. \"She does not realize, 'Boo on eating meat!'\"). Prescriptivist translations fare only slightly better (\"She does not realize that she is not to eat meat\"). Even the act of forming such a construction indicates some sort of cognition in the process.\n\nAccording to some non-cognitivist points of view, these sentences simply assume the false premise that ethical statements are either true or false. They might be literally translated as:\n\nThese translations, however, seem divorced from the way people actually use language. A non-cognitivist would have to disagree with someone saying, \"'Eating meat is wrong' is a false statement\" (since \"Eating meat is wrong\" is not truth-apt at all), but may be tempted to agree with a person saying, \"Eating meat is not wrong.\"\n\nOne might more constructively interpret these statements to describe the underlying emotional statement that they express, i.e.: I disapprove/do not disapprove of eating meat, I used to, he doesn't, I do and she doesn't, etc.; however, this interpretation is closer to ethical subjectivism than to non-cognitivism proper.\n\nA similar argument against non-cognitivism is that of ethical argument. A common argument might be, \"If killing an innocent human is always wrong, and all fetuses are innocent humans, then killing a fetus is always wrong.\" Most people would consider such an utterance to represent an analytic proposition which is true \"a priori\". However, if ethical statements do not represent cognitions, it seems odd to use them as premises in an argument, and even odder to assume they follow the same rules of syllogism as true propositions. However, R.M. Hare, proponent of universal prescriptivism, has argued that the rules of logic are independent of grammatical mood, and thus the same logical relations may hold between imperatives as hold between indicatives.\n\nMany objections to non-cognitivism based on the linguistic characteristics of what purport to be moral judgments were originally raised by Peter Glassen in \"The Cognitivity of Moral Judgments\", published in \"Mind\" in January 1959, and in Glassen's follow-up article in the January 1963 issue of the same journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1079181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079181", "title": "Paul Carus", "text": "Paul Carus\n\nPaul Carus (; 18 July 1852 – 11 February 1919) was a German-American author, editor, a student of comparative religion and philosopher.\n\nCarus was born in Ilsenburg, Germany, and educated at the universities of Strassburg (then Germany, now France) and Tübingen, Germany. After obtaining his PhD from Tübingen in 1876 he served in the army and then taught school. He had been raised in a pious and orthodox Protestant home, but gradually moved away from this tradition.\n\nHe left Bismarck's Imperial Germany for the United States, \"because of his liberal views\". After he immigrated to the USA (in 1884) he lived in Chicago, and in LaSalle, Illinois. Paul Carus married Edward C. Hegeler's daughter Mary (Marie) and the couple later moved into the Hegeler Carus Mansion, built by her father. They had six children.\n\nIn the United States, Carus briefly edited a German-language journal and wrote several articles for the \"Index\", the Free Religious Association organ.\n\nSoon after, he became the first managing editor of the Open Court Publishing Company, founded in 1887 by his father-in-law. The goals of Open Court were to provide a forum for the discussion of philosophy, science, and religion, and to make philosophical classics widely available by making them affordable.\n\nHe also acted as the editor for two periodicals published by the company, \"The Open Court\" and \"The Monist\".\n\nHe was introduced to Charles Sanders Peirce, the founder of American Pragmatism, by Judge Francis C. Russell of Chicago. Carus stayed abreast of Peirce's work and would eventually publish a number of his articles.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Carus published 75 books and 1500 articles, mostly through Open Court Publishing Company. He wrote books and articles on history, politics, philosophy, religion, logic, mathematics, anthropology, science, and social issues of his day. In addition, Carus corresponded with many of the greatest minds of the late 19th and early 20th century, sending and receiving letters from Leo Tolstoy, Thomas Edison, Nikola Tesla, Booker T. Washington, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Ernst Mach, Ernst Haeckel, John Dewey, and many more.\n\nCarus considered himself a theologian rather than philosopher. He referred to himself as \"an atheist who loved God\".\n\nCarus is proposed to be a pioneer in the promotion of interfaith dialogue. He explored the relationship of science and religion, and was instrumental in introducing Eastern traditions and ideas to the West. He was a key figure in the introduction of Buddhism to the West, sponsoring Buddhist translation work of D.T. Suzuki, and fostering a lifelong working friendship with Buddhist Master, Soyen Shaku. Carus' interest in Asian religions seems to have intensified after he attended the World's Parliament of Religions (in 1893).\n\nFor years afterwards, Carus was a strong sympathizer of Buddhist ideas, but stopped short of committing fully to this, or any other, religion. Instead, he ceaselessly promoted his own rational concept which he called the \"Religion of Science.\" Carus had a selective approach and he believed that religions evolve over time. After a battle for survival, he expected a \"cosmic religion of universal truth\" to emerge from the ashes of traditional beliefs.\n\nCarus proposed his own philosophy similar to panpsychism known as 'panbiotism', which he defined as \"everything is fraught with life; it contains life; it has the ability to live.\"\nCarus was a follower of Benedictus de Spinoza; he was of the opinion that Western thought had fallen into error early in its development in accepting the distinctions between body and mind and the material and the spiritual. (Kant's phenomenal and noumenal realms of knowledge; Christianity's views of the soul and the body, and the natural and the supernatural). Carus rejected such dualisms, and wanted science to reestablish the unity of knowledge. The philosophical result he labeled \"Monism\".\n\nHis version of \"monism\" is more closely associated with a kind of pantheism, although it was occasionally identified with positivism. \nHe regarded every law of nature as a part of God's being. Carus held that God was the name for a \"cosmic order\" comprising \"all that which is the bread of our spiritual life.\" He held the concept of a personal God as untenable. He acknowledged Jesus Christ as a redeemer, but not as the only one, for he believed that other religious founders were equally endowed with similar qualities.\n\nHis beliefs attempted to steer a middle course between idealistic metaphysics and materialism. He differed with metaphysicians because they \"reified\" words and treated them as if they were realities, and he objected to materialism because it ignored or overlooked the importance of form. Carus emphasized form by conceiving of the divinity as a cosmic order. He objected to any monism which sought the unity of the world, not in the unity of truth, but in the oneness of a logical assumption of ideas. He referred to such concepts as \"henism\", not monism.\n\nCarus held that truth was independent of time, human desire, and human action. Therefore, science was not a human invention, but a human revelation which needed to be apprehended; discovery meant apprehension; it was the result or manifestation of the cosmic order in which all truths were ultimately harmonious.\n\nIt is claimed that Carus was dismissed by Orientalists and philosophers alike because of his failure to comply with the rules of either discipline.\n\nThe legacy of Paul Carus is honored through the efforts of the \"Hegeler Carus Foundation\", the \"Carus Lectures\" at the \"American Philosophical Association (APA)\", and the \"Paul Carus Award for Interreligious Understanding\" by the \"Council for a Parliament of the World's Religions (CPWR)\".\n\nHis publications include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "41182386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41182386", "title": "Peter Poellner", "text": "Peter Poellner\n\nPeter Poellner is a Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick. He is considered by many to be Britain's foremost expert on the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. His more general research interests are related most strongly to 19th- and 20th-century European Continental Philosophy (especially phenomenologists such as Edmund Husserl, Max Scheler, Jean-Paul Sartre and the early Martin Heidegger).\n\nAccording to Brian Leiter, he has challenged the view that libertarian views of free will and moral responsibility are central to Western religious, moral, and cultural traditions.\n"}
{"id": "3789862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3789862", "title": "Philip J. Ivanhoe", "text": "Philip J. Ivanhoe\n\nPhilip J. Ivanhoe (born January 17, 1954) is an historian of Chinese thought, particularly of Confucianism and Neo-Confucianism. He is a professor at the City University of Hong Kong. Ivanhoe is perhaps best known for two claims: that Neo-Confucian philosophers such as Zhu Xi and Wang Yangming have systematically misinterpreted earlier Confucians such as Confucius, himself, and Mengzi; and that Confucianism may usefully be understood as a version of virtue ethics.\n\nIvanhoe was raised in New Jersey (US) by parents who owned a variety of small businesses, including a butcher shop, where he worked until leaving for college. He attended Stanford University on a scholarship, where he earned a B.A. (1976) in Philosophy, and also studied the Chinese language. From 1976 to 1978, Ivanhoe stayed on at Stanford to work with David S. Nivison on a project to generate computerized concordances of Chinese texts. From 1974 to 1978, he served in the United States Marine Corps, PLC and was honorably discharged at the rank of sergeant. From 1978 to 1982, he served in the U. S. Army. He left the army at the rank of sergeant, with an honorable discharge, and returned to Stanford to pursue his doctorate in Religious Studies (awarded 1987), also completing the requirements for a minor in Asian Languages. At Stanford, Ivanhoe studied under Nivison, a leading Sinologist who had applied the methods of analytic philosophy to the study of Chinese thought, and Lee H. Yearley, a scholar of Thomas Aquinas and comparative religion. Upon Nivison's retirement, Ivanhoe was given a joint appointment as an assistant professor in both the Philosophy Department and the Religious Studies Department at Stanford (1991). In 1993, Ivanhoe won the Lloyd W. Dinkelspiel Award for Outstanding Service to Undergraduate Education. In 1996, Ivanhoe was promoted to associate professor. Then in 1998 Ivanhoe moved to the University of Michigan, where he was hired at the associate professor level in the Philosophy Department and the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures. In 2003, Ivanhoe left Michigan and became Findlay Visiting Professor of Philosophy at Boston University.\n\nIn 2006 he accepted his current appointment at City University of Hong Kong. His courses include Feminism and Family Ethics, Philosophy of Life, and Ethics and Practice.\n\nIvanhoe is married and has two children, a daughter and a son. He currently lives in Hong Kong.\n\nIvanhoe was influenced by Nivison's suggestion that Neo-Confucians, although they were harsh critics of Buddhism, were more deeply influenced by Buddhist philosophical concepts than they realized. As a result, Neo-Confucians misinterpreted their own intellectual tradition. Ivanhoe developed Nivison's insight in great detail in his doctoral dissertation, a revised version of which was later published as a book, \"Ethics in the Confucian Tradition: The Thought of Mengzi and Wang Yangming.\" In this book, Ivanhoe contrasts the views of the ancient Confucian Mengzi (also known as \"Mencius\") with that of the Neo-Confucian Wang Yangming on several topics, including \"sagehood\" and \"ethical cultivation,\" and demonstrates how the influence of Buddhist ideas on Wang leads him to mis-read Mengzi, even when he believes that he is explicating him.\n\nIvanhoe applied this idea more broadly in his next major book, \"Confucian Moral Self Cultivation.\" In the first edition of this book, Ivanhoe argued that Chinese philosophers can be categorized in terms of whether they use a \"development,\" \"discovery\" or \"re-formation\" model of ethical cultivation. (Ivanhoe was one of the co-developers of this terminology, along with A.C. Graham, his classmate Kwong-loi Shun, and his student Jon Schofer.) In a development model, ethical cultivation is a process of beginning from innate but incipient tendencies and gradually developing them. (So, for example, the ancient Confucian Mengzi says that \"sprouts\" of virtue must be cultivated to develop into full virtues.) According to a discovery model, humans have within themselves everything that is necessary for full virtue, but this capacity is somehow impeded or obscured, and cultivation is a process of realizing what is present within oneself. (Ivanhoe argues that Chinese Buddhists and Neo-Confucians, despite their genuine differences on many topics, share a discovery model of ethical cultivation.) Finally, in a re-formation model, human nature is originally resistant to cultivation, and must be laboriously re-shaped in order to create virtue. (Ivanhoe argues that the ancient Confucian Xunzi held such a view.) In the second edition of \"Confucian Moral Self Cultivation,\" Ivanhoe further subdivided the types of self-cultivation models.\n\nIvanhoe's influence on themes such as the virtues, ethical cultivation and human nature reflects the influence of Yearley's view that Confucianism may be understood as a form of virtue ethics. Ivanhoe has co-edited a number of anthologies of secondary essays on Chinese thought, and has published a large number of essays and articles in reference works on Confucianism, Mohism and Daoism.\n\n"}
{"id": "8745091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8745091", "title": "Philipp Stauff", "text": "Philipp Stauff\n\nPhilipp Stauff (1876–1923) was a prominent German/Austrian journalist and publisher in Berlin. He was an enthusiastic Armanist, a close friend of Guido von List, and a founding member of the Guido-von-List-Society. He was also the obituarist for List in the \"Münchener Beobachter\".\n\nStauff joined the List Society in 1910 and swiftly graduated to the High Armanen Order, the intimate inner circle around List. In 1912 he became a committee member of the List Society and a generous patron. He was the chief German representative of the High Armanen Order at Berlin.\n\nHis esoteric treatise \"Runenhäuser\" (\"Rune Houses\"), published in 1912, \"extended the Listian thesis of 'armanist' relics with the claim that the ancient runic wisdom had been enshrined in the geometric configuration of beams in half-timbered houses throughout Germany\". (See also Runic significance of timber framing.)\n\nHe was active in both the Reichshammerbund and the Germanenorden (pre-World War I \"völkisch\" leagues). He was one of the principal officers in the loyalist Berlin province of the original Germanenorden after a splinter group led by Hermann Pohl broke away in 1916.\n"}
{"id": "4262238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4262238", "title": "Renato Janine Ribeiro", "text": "Renato Janine Ribeiro\n\nRenato Janine Ribeiro is a Brazilian political philosopher and full professor of ethics and political philosophy at the University of São Paulo. As of April 6, 2015 he was named Minister of Education of Brazil in the cabinet of Dilma Rousseff.\n"}
{"id": "18044579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18044579", "title": "Science &amp; Religion: A Symposium", "text": "Science &amp; Religion: A Symposium\n\nScience & Religion: A Symposium (1931) is a book first published in 1931, consisting of a lightly edited transcription of twelve talks broadcast on the BBC between September and December 1930. In contrast to the 1920s conflicts between science and religion in the U.S. (e.g., the Scopes trial), 1920's Great Britain experienced a concerted effort at reconciliation. These efforts bore some fruit in the early 1930s such as in BBC radio broadcasts (e.g., this text), but ultimately these efforts broke down due in part to rejection from both 1930's conservative Christians and arch secularists (e.g., H.G. Wells).\n\nThe book contains a foreword by Mihajlo Pupin and twelve talks by Julian Huxley, J. Arthur Thomson, J.S. Haldane, E.W. Barnes, B. Malinowski, H. R. L. Sheppard, B. H. Streeter, C.W. O'Hara, Arthur S. Eddington, S. Alexander, W.R. Inge, and L.P. Jacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "6042463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6042463", "title": "Secret law", "text": "Secret law\n\nSecret law refers to legal authorities that require compliance that are classified or otherwise withheld from the public. Such non-promulgated laws were common in the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc countries. The term has been used in reference to some counterterrorist measures taken by the Bush Administration in the United States following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The Patriot Act has been referred to as having secret interpretations.\n\nSince about 2015 the branches of the United States federal government have accused one another of creating secret law. Journalists, scholars, and anti-secrecy activists have also made similar allegations. Scholarly analysis has shown that secret law is present in all three branches. One scholar, Professor Dakota Rudesill, recommends that the country affirmatively decide whether to tolerate secret law, and proposes principles for governing it, including: public law’s supremacy over secret law; no secret criminal law; public notification of creation of secret law; presumptive sunset and publication dates; and availability of all secret law to Congress.\n\nIn Britain many open places freely accessible by the public are actually privately owned public spaces (POPS). Information on ownership is considered confidential, and not provided either by the owners, or by local councils that have the information. As in any private property the owner may require visitors to abide by specified rules; but people freely accessing the place are not informed of the rules, which may nevertheless be enforced by security guards. Typical prohibitions which do not apply to genuinely public spaces include protesting, and photography.\n\nCouncils mostly refused to provide information on existing and planned pseudo-public spaces. They also refused to say how information could be obtained, or to provide information on private restrictions on exercising the other rights people have on genuinely public land. Councils were criticised for being under the influence of property developers and corporate owners. A member of the London Assembly said \"Being able to know what rules you are being governed by, and how to challenge them, is a fundamental part of democracy\".\n\nSecret laws and their negative effects are described in Franz Kafka's novel \"Der Prozess\" (\"The Trial\").\n\n"}
{"id": "309812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309812", "title": "Stanford prison experiment", "text": "Stanford prison experiment\n\nThe Stanford Prison Experiment (SPE) was a 1971 social psychology experiment that attempted to investigate the psychological effects of perceived power, focusing on the struggle between prisoners and prison officers. It was conducted at Stanford University between August 14–20, 1971, by a research group led by psychology professor Philip Zimbardo using college students. In the study, volunteers were randomly assigned to be either \"guards\" or \"prisoners\" in a mock prison, with Zimbardo himself serving as the superintendent. Several \"prisoners\" left mid-experiment, and the whole experiment was abandoned after six days. Early reports on experimental results claimed that students quickly embraced their assigned roles, with some guards enforcing authoritarian measures and ultimately subjecting some prisoners to psychological torture, while many prisoners passively accepted psychological abuse and, by the officers' request, actively harassed other prisoners who tried to stop it. The experiment has been described in many introductory social psychology textbooks, although some are beginning to exclude it because its methodology is questioned.\n\nThe U.S. Office of Naval Research funded the experiment as an investigation into the causes of difficulties between guards and prisoners in the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps. Certain portions of it were filmed, and excerpts of footage are publicly available.\n\nSome of the experiment's findings have been called into question, and the experiment has been criticized for unscientific methodology and possible fraud. Critics have noted that Zimbardo instructed the \"guards\" to exert psychological control over the \"prisoners\", and that some of the participants behaved in a way that would help the study, so that, as one \"guard\" later put it, \"the researchers would have something to work with.\" Variants of the experiment have been performed by other researchers, but none of these attempts have replicated the results of the SPE.\n\nThe (archived) official website of the Stanford Prison Experiment describes the experiment goal as follows:\n\nWe wanted to see what the psychological effects were of becoming a prisoner or prison guard. To do this, we decided to set up a simulated prison and then carefully note the effects of this institution on the behavior of all those within its walls.\n\nA 1997 article from the Stanford News Service described experiment goals in a more detailed way:\n\nZimbardo's primary reason for conducting the experiment was to focus on the power of roles, rules, symbols, group identity and situational validation of behavior that generally would repulse ordinary individuals. \"I had been conducting research for some years on deindividuation, vandalism and dehumanization that illustrated the ease with which ordinary people could be led to engage in anti-social acts by putting them in situations where they felt anonymous, or they could perceive of others in ways that made them less than human, as enemies or objects,\" Zimbardo told the Toronto symposium in the summer of 1996.\n\nMale participants were recruited and told they would participate in a two-week prison simulation. The team selected the 24 applicants whose test results predicted they would be the most psychologically stable and healthy. These participants were predominantly white and of the middle class. The group was intentionally selected to exclude those with criminal backgrounds, psychological impairments, or medical problems. They all agreed to participate in a 7- to 14-day period and received $15 per day (roughly equivalent to $94 per day in 2018).\n\nThe experiment was conducted in a 35-foot (10.5 m) section of a basement of Jordan Hall (Stanford's psychology building). The prison had two fabricated walls, one at the entrance, and one at the cell wall to block observation. Each cell (6 × 9 feet, or 1.8 × 2.7 m), contained only a cot for the prisoners. In contrast, the guards lived in a very different environment, separated from the prisoners. They were given rest and relaxation areas, and other comforts.\n\nTwelve of the 24 participants were assigned the role of prisoner (9 plus 3 potential substitutes), while the other 12 were assigned the role of guard (also 9 plus 3 potential substitutes). Zimbardo took on the role of the superintendent and an undergraduate research assistant took on the role of the warden. Zimbardo designed the experiment in order to induce disorientation, depersonalization, and deindividuation in the participants.\n\nThe researchers held an orientation session for the guards the day before the experiment, during which guards were instructed not to harm the prisoners physically or withhold food or drink. In the footage of the study, Zimbardo can be seen talking to the guards: \"You can create in the prisoners feelings of boredom, a sense of fear to some degree, you can create a notion of arbitrariness that their life is totally controlled by us, by the system, you, me, and they'll have no privacy ... We're going to take away their individuality in various ways. In general what all this leads to is a sense of powerlessness. That is, in this situation we'll have all the power and they'll have none.\"\n\nThe researchers provided the guards with wooden batons to establish their status, clothing similar to that of an actual prison guard (khaki shirt and pants from a local military surplus store), and mirrored sunglasses to prevent eye contact. Prisoners wore uncomfortable, ill-fitting smocks and stocking caps, as well as a chain around one ankle. Guards were instructed to call prisoners by their assigned numbers, sewn on their uniforms, instead of by name.\n\nThe prisoners were \"arrested\" at their homes and \"charged\" with armed robbery. The local Palo Alto police department assisted Zimbardo with the arrests and conducted full booking procedures on the prisoners, which included fingerprinting and taking mug shots. The prisoners were transported to the mock prison from the police station, where they were strip searched and given their new identities.\n\nThe small mock prison cells were set up to hold three prisoners each. There was a small corridor for the prison yard, a closet for solitary confinement, and a bigger room across from the prisoners for the guards and warden. The prisoners were to stay in their cells and the yard all day and night until the end of the study. The guards worked in teams of three for eight-hour shifts. The guards were not required to stay on site after their shift.\n\nGuards had differing responses to their new roles. Dave Eshelman, described by Stanford Magazine as \"the most abusive guard\" felt his aggressive behavior was helping experimenters to get what they wanted. John Mark, who had joined the experiment hoping to be selected as a prisoner, instead recalls \"At that time of my life, I was getting high, all day every day... I brought joints with me, and every day I wanted to give them to the prisoners. I looked at their faces and saw how they were getting dispirited and I felt sorry for them.\" \"Warden\" David Jaffe intervened with Mark to get him to change his behavior, to \"participate\" more and become more \"tough.\"\n\nAfter a relatively uneventful first day, on the second day the prisoners in Cell 1 blockaded their cell door with their beds and took off their stocking caps, refusing to come out or follow the guards' instructions. Guards from other shifts volunteered to work extra hours, to assist in subduing the revolt, and subsequently attacked the prisoners with fire extinguishers without being supervised by the research staff. Finding that handling nine cell mates with only three guards per shift was challenging, one of the guards suggested they use psychological tactics to control them. They set up a \"privilege cell\" in which prisoners who were not involved in the riot were treated with special rewards, such as higher quality meals. The \"privileged\" inmates chose not to eat the meal in commiseration with their fellow prisoners.\n\nAfter only 35 hours, one prisoner began to act \"crazy\", as Zimbardo described: \"#8612 then began to act crazy, to scream, to curse, to go into a rage that seemed out of control. It took quite a while before we became convinced that he was really suffering and that we had to release him.\" \nGuards forced the prisoners to repeat their assigned numbers to reinforce the idea that this was their new identity. Guards soon used these prisoner counts to harass the prisoners, using physical punishment such as protracted exercise for errors in the prisoner count. Sanitary conditions declined rapidly, exacerbated by the guards' refusal to allow some prisoners to urinate or defecate anywhere but in a bucket placed in their cell. As punishment, the guards would not let the prisoners empty the sanitation bucket. Mattresses were a valued item in the prison, so the guards would punish prisoners by removing their mattresses, leaving them to sleep on concrete. Some prisoners were forced to be naked as a method of degradation. Several guards became increasingly cruel as the experiment continued; experimenters reported that approximately one-third of the guards exhibited genuine sadistic tendencies. Most of the guards were upset when the experiment was halted after only six days.\n\nZimbardo mentions his own absorption in the experiment. On the fourth day, some of the guards stated they heard a rumor that the released prisoner was going to come back with his friends and free the remaining inmates. Zimbardo and the guards disassembled the prison and moved it onto a different floor of the building. Zimbardo himself waited in the basement, in case the released prisoner showed up, and planned to tell him that the experiment had been terminated. The released prisoner never returned, and the prison was rebuilt in the basement.\n\nZimbardo argued that the prisoners had internalized their roles, since some had stated they would accept \"parole\" even if it would mean forfeiting their pay, despite the fact that quitting would have achieved the same result without the delay involved in waiting for their parole requests to be granted or denied. Zimbardo argued they had no reason for continued participation in the experiment after having lost all monetary compensation, yet they did, because they had internalized the prisoner identity.\n\nPrisoner No. 416, a newly admitted stand-by prisoner, expressed concern about the treatment of the other prisoners. The guards responded with more abuse. When he refused to eat his sausages, saying he was on a hunger strike, guards confined him to \"solitary confinement\", a dark closet: \"the guards then instructed the other prisoners to repeatedly punch on the door while shouting at 416.\" The guards said he would be released from solitary confinement only if the prisoners gave up their blankets and slept on their bare mattresses, which all but one refused to do.\n\nZimbardo aborted the experiment early when Christina Maslach, a graduate student in psychology whom he was dating (and later married), objected to the conditions of the prison after she was introduced to the experiment to conduct interviews. Zimbardo noted that, of more than 50 people who had observed the experiment, Maslach was the only one who questioned its morality. After only six days of a planned two weeks' duration, the experiment was discontinued.\n\nOn August 20, 1971, Zimbardo announced the end of the experiment to the participants.\n\nAccording to Zimbardo's interpretation of the SPE, it demonstrated that the simulated-prison situation, rather than individual personality traits, caused the participants' behavior. Using this situational attribution, the results are compatible with those of the Milgram experiment, where random participants complied with orders to administer seemingly dangerous and potentially lethal electric shocks to a shill.\n\nThe experiment has also been used to illustrate cognitive dissonance theory and the power of authority.\n\nParticipants' behavior may have been shaped by knowing that they were watched (Hawthorne effect). Instead of being restrained by fear of an observer, guards may have behaved more aggressively when supervisors observing them did not step in to restrain them.\n\nZimbardo instructed the guards before the experiment to disrespect the prisoners in various ways. For example, they had to refer to prisoners by number rather than by name. This, according to Zimbardo, was intended to diminish the prisoners' individuality. With no control, prisoners learned they had little effect on what happened to them, ultimately causing them to stop responding, and give up. Quick to realize that the guards were the highest in the hierarchy, prisoners began to accept their roles as less important human beings.\n\nOne positive result of the study is that it has altered the way US prisons are run. For example, juveniles accused of federal crimes are no longer housed before trial with adult prisoners, due to the risk of violence against them.\n\nShortly after the study was completed, there were bloody revolts at both the San Quentin and Attica prison facilities, and Zimbardo reported his findings on the experiment to the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary.\n\nThere has been controversy over both the ethics and scientific rigor of the Stanford prison experiment since nearly the beginning, and it has never been successfully replicated. French academic and filmmaker Thibault Le Texier, in a 2018 book about the experiment, \"Histoire d'un mensonge\" (\"Story of a lie\"), wrote that it could not be meaningfully described as an experiment and that there were no real results to speak of.\nIn response to criticism of his methodology, Zimbardo himself has agreed that the SPE was more of a \"demonstration\" than a scientific \"experiment\":\n\nFrom the beginning, I have always said it's a demonstration. The only thing that makes it an experiment is the random assignment to prisoners and guards, that's the independent variable. There is no control group. There's no comparison group. So it doesn't fit the standards of what it means to be \"an experiment.\" It's a very powerful demonstration of a psychological phenomenon, and it has had relevance.\n\nIn 2018, in response to criticism by Le Texier and other, Philip Zimbardo wrote a detailed rebuttal on his website. In his summary, he wrote:\n\nI hereby assert that none of these criticisms present any substantial evidence that alters the SPE's main conclusion concerning the importance of understanding how systemic and situational forces can operate to influence individual behavior in negative or positive directions, often without our personal awareness. The SPE's core message is not that a psychological simulation of prison life is the same as the real thing, or that prisoners and guards always or even usually behave the way that they did in the SPE. Rather, the SPE serves as a cautionary tale of what might happen to any of us if we underestimate the extent to which the power of social roles and external pressures can influence our actions.\nSome of the guards' behavior allegedly led to dangerous and psychologically damaging situations. According to Zimbardo's report, one third of the guards were judged to have exhibited \"genuine sadistic tendencies\", while many prisoners were emotionally traumatized, and five of them had to be removed from the experiment early. Zimbardo concluded that both prisoners and guards had become deeply absorbed in their roles and realized that he had likewise become as deeply absorbed in his own, and he terminated the experiment.\n\nEthical concerns surrounding the experiment often draw comparisons to a similar experiment, conducted ten years earlier in 1961 at Yale University by Stanley Milgram.\n\nBecause of the nature of the experiment, Zimbardo found it impossible to keep traditional scientific controls in place. He was unable to remain a neutral observer, since he influenced the direction of the experiment as the prison's superintendent. Conclusions and observations drawn by the experimenters were largely subjective and anecdotal, and the experiment is practically impossible for other researchers to accurately reproduce. Erich Fromm claimed to see generalizations in the experiment's results and argued that the personality of an individual does affect behavior when imprisoned. This ran counter to the study's conclusion that the prison situation itself controls the individual's behavior. Fromm also argued that the amount of sadism in the \"normal\" subjects could not be determined with the methods employed to screen them.\n\nCarlo Prescott, who was Zimbardo's \"prison consultant\" during the experiment by virtue of having served 17 years in San Quentin for attempted murder, spoke out against the experiment publicly in a 2005 article he contributed to the \"Stanford Daily\", after he had read about the various ways in which Zimbardo and others used the experiment to explain atrocities that had taken place in real prisons. In that article, entitled \"The Lie of the Stanford Prison Experiment\", Prescott wrote:\n\n[...] ideas such as bags being placed over the heads of prisoners, inmates being bound together with chains and buckets being used in place of toilets in their cells were all experiences of mine at the old \"Spanish Jail\" section of San Quentin and which I dutifully shared with the Stanford Prison Experiment braintrust months before the experiment started. To allege that all these carefully tested, psychologically solid, upper-middle-class Caucasian \"guards\" dreamed this up on their own is absurd. How can Zimbardo and, by proxy, Maverick Entertainment express horror at the behavior of the \"guards\" when they were merely doing what Zimbardo and others, myself included, encouraged them to do at the outset or frankly established as ground rules?\n\nLike Zimbardo, Prescott has spoken before Congress on issues of prison reform.\n\nIn 2018, digitized recordings available on the official SPE website were widely discussed, particularly one where \"prison warden\" David Jaffe tried to influence the behavior of one of the \"guards\" by encouraging him to \"participate\" more and be more \"tough\" for the benefit of the experiment.\nIn his 2018 response, Zimbardo wrote that the instructions they gave to the guards were \"mild compared to the pressure exerted by actual wardens and superior officers in real-life prison and military settings, where guards failing to participate fully can face disciplinary hearings, demotion, or dismissal.\"\n\nThe study was criticized in 2013 for demand characteristics by psychologist Peter Gray, who argued that participants in psychological experiments are more likely to do what they believe the researchers want them to do, and specifically in the case of the Stanford prison experiment, \"to act out their stereotyped views of what prisoners and guards do.\" Gray stated that he did not include the experiment in his introductory textbook, \"Psychology\", because he thought it lacked scientific rigor.\n\n\"John Wayne\" (the real-life Dave Eshelman), one of the guards in the experiment, said that he caused the escalation of events between guards and prisoners after he began to emulate a character from the 1967 film \"Cool Hand Luke\". He further intensified his actions because he was nicknamed \"John Wayne\" by the other participants, even though he was trying to mimic actor Strother Martin, who had played the role of the sadistic prison Captain in the movie. As he described it:\n\nIn his 2018 rebuttal, Zimbardo wrote that Eshelman's actions went \"far beyond simply playing the role of a tough guard\", and that his and the other guards' acts, given \"their striking parallels with real-world prison atrocities\", \"tell us something important about human nature\".\n\nTwo students from the \"prisoners\" group left the experiment before it was terminated on the sixth day. Douglas Korpi was the first to leave, after 36 hours; he had a seeming mental breakdown in which he yelled \"Jesus Christ, I'm burning up inside!\" and \"I can't stand another night! I just can't take it anymore!\" His outburst was captured by a camera, and has become, in one commentator's words, \"a defining moment\" of the study. In a 2017 interview, Korpi stated that his breakdown had been fake, and that he did it only so that he could leave and return to studying. (He had originally thought that he could study while \"imprisoned\", but the \"prison staff\" would not allow him.) Zimbardo later stated that participants only had to state the phrase \"I quit the experiment\" in order to leave, but transcripts from a taped conversation between Zimbardo and his staff show him stating \"There are only two conditions under which you can leave, medical help or psychiatric.\" In the 2017 interview, Korpi expressed regret that he had not filed a false imprisonment charge at the time.\n\nIn his 2018 rebuttal, Zimbardo noted that Korpi's description of his actions had changed several times before the 2017 interview, and that in Zimbardo's 1992 documentary \"Quiet Rage\" Korpi had stated that the experiment \"was the most upsetting experience of his life\".\n\nCritics contend that not only was the sample size too small for extrapolation, but also having all of the experimental subjects be US male students gravely undercut the experiment's validity. In other words, it is conceivable that replicating the experiment using a diverse group of people (with different objectives and views in life) would have produced radically distinct results; that is, had the test subjects come from divergent socio-economic and psychological groups, different experimental results may well have resulted.\n\nResearchers from Western Kentucky University argued that selection bias may have played a role in the results. The researchers recruited students for a study using an advertisement similar to the one used in the Stanford Prison Experiment, with some ads saying \"a psychological study\" (the control group), and some with the words \"prison life\" as originally worded in Dr. Zimbardo's experiment. It was found that students who responded to the classified advertisement for the \"prison study\" were higher in traits such as social dominance, aggression, authoritarianism, etc. and were lower in traits related to empathy and altruism when compared to the control group participants.\n\nThe experiment was perceived by many to involve questionable ethics, the most serious concern being that it was continued even after participants expressed their desire to withdraw. Despite the fact that participants were told they had the right to leave at any time, Zimbardo did not allow this.\n\nSince the time of the Stanford experiment, ethical guidelines have been established for experiments involving human subjects. The Stanford Prison Experiment led to the implementation of rules to preclude any harmful treatment of participants. Before they are implemented, human studies must now be reviewed and found by an institutional review board (US) or ethics committee (UK) to be in accordance with ethical guidelines set by the American Psychological Association. These guidelines involve the consideration of whether the potential benefit to science outweighs the possible risk for physical and psychological harm.\n\nA post-experimental debriefing is now considered an important ethical consideration to ensure that participants are not harmed in any way by their experience in an experiment. Though Zimbardo did conduct debriefing sessions, they were several years after the Stanford Prison Experiment. By that time numerous details were forgotten; nonetheless, many participants reported that they experienced no lasting negative effects. Current standards specify that the debriefing process should occur as soon as possible to assess what psychological harm, if any, may have been done and to rehabilitate participants, if necessary. If there is an unavoidable delay in debriefing, the researcher is obligated to take steps to minimize harm.\n\nWhen acts of prisoner torture and abuse at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq were publicized in March 2004, Zimbardo himself, who paid close attention to the details of the story, was struck by the similarity with his own experiment. He was dismayed by official military and government representatives' shifting the blame for the torture and abuses in the Abu Ghraib American military prison onto \"a few bad apples\" rather than acknowledging the possibly systemic problems of a formally established military incarceration system.\n\nEventually, Zimbardo became involved with the defense team of lawyers representing one of the Abu Ghraib prison guards, Staff Sergeant Ivan \"Chip\" Frederick. He was granted full access to all investigation and background reports, and testified as an expert witness in SSG Frederick's court martial, which resulted in an eight-year prison sentence for Frederick in October 2004.\n\nZimbardo drew from his participation in the Frederick case to write the book \"The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil,\" published by Random House in 2007, which deals with the similarities between his own Stanford Prison Experiment and the Abu Ghraib abuses.\n\nPsychologists Alex Haslam and Steve Reicher conducted the BBC Prison Study in 2002 and published the results in 2006. This was a partial replication of the Stanford prison experiment conducted with the assistance of the BBC, which broadcast events in the study in a documentary series called \"The Experiment\". Their results and conclusions differed from Zimbardo's and led to a number of publications on tyranny, stress, and leadership. The results were published in leading academic journals such as \"British Journal of Social Psychology\", \"Journal of Applied Psychology\", \"Social Psychology Quarterly\", and \"Personality and Social Psychology Review\". The BBC Prison Study is now taught as a core study on the UK A-level Psychology OCR syllabus.\n\nWhile Haslam and Reicher's procedure was not a direct replication of Zimbardo's, their study casts further doubt on the generality of his conclusions. Specifically, it questions the notion that people slip mindlessly into role and the idea that the dynamics of evil are in any way banal. Their research also points to the importance of leadership in the emergence of tyranny of the form displayed by Zimbardo when briefing guards in the Stanford experiment.\n\nThe Stanford prison experiment was in part a response to the Milgram experiment at Yale beginning in 1961 and published in 1963.\n\nThe Third Wave experiment involved the use of authoritarian dynamics similar to Nazi Party methods of mass control in a classroom setting by high school teacher Ron Jones in Palo Alto, California, in 1967 with the goal of demonstrating to the class in a vivid way how the German public in World War II could have acted in the way it did. Although the veracity of Jones' accounts has been questioned, several participants in the study have gone on record to confirm the events.\n\nIn both experiments, participants found it difficult to leave the study due to the roles they were assigned. Both studies examine human nature and the effects of authority. Personalities of the subjects had little influence on both experiments despite the test prior to the prison experiment.\n\nIn the Milgram and the Zimbardo studies, participants conform to social pressures. Conformity is strengthened by allowing some participants to feel more or less powerful than others. In both experiments, behavior is altered to match the group stereotype.\n\nThe 2015 film \"The Stanford Prison Experiment\" is based on the experiment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Abu Ghraib and the experiment:\"\n"}
{"id": "36114709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36114709", "title": "Tetsuo Sōkatsu", "text": "Tetsuo Sōkatsu\n\nTetsuo Sōkatsu (1870–1954) was a Japanese Rinzai-master. He was a dharma heir of Soyen Shaku.\n\nTetsuo Sokatsu received dharma transmission from Soyen Shaku at the age of 29. There-after he traveled throughout Japan, on \"a pilgrimage of great Zen temples\". Sokatsu continued his travels outside Japan for two years, visiting Burma, Ceylon and India, wehere he lived with \"barefoot sadhus\".\n\nSoyen Shaku put him in charge of Ryōbō Kai, and gave him the hermitage-name \"Ryobo-an\". Sokatsu opened the hermitage for lay-practice, opening up the possibility of dharma transmission to lay practitioners. At the end of World War II Sokatsu closed Ryōbō Kai, but the lay practice was continued by his dharma heir Koun-an Roshi.\n\nIn 1906 Sokatsu went to California with a group of fourteen students, including Gotō Zuigan and Sokei-an Shigetsu Sasaki. He stayed there for four years, Sokei-an Sasaki being the only one to stay in the USA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1492275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1492275", "title": "The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception", "text": "The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception\n\nThe Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception or Mystic Christianity (also known as Western Wisdom Teachings) is a Rosicrucian text by Max Heindel, first published in 1909.\n\nThe first edition was printed in November 1909. The order of publication was placed by Max Heindel on the New Moon of November 1909 and the book was published a couple of weeks later by the Full Moon, some 5 short weeks before the end of the first decade of the 1900s. It has little changed since then and it is considered to be Max Heindel's \"magnum opus\". It is a reference work in the Christian mysticism practice and in the Occult study literature, containing the fundamentals of Esoteric Christianity from a Rosicrucian perspective. The \"Cosmo\" contains a comprehensive outline of the evolutionary process of man and the universe, correlating science with religion. It is, till current days, the basic book for the philosophy courses of the school, the Rosicrucian Fellowship, founded by the author on August 8, 1909.\n\nThe first edition of this work, containing more than 700 pages of in depth teachings into the major themes of the \"occult science\", was dedicated to a knowledgeable lecturer of the occult field called Rudolf Steiner, to whom Max Heindel felt greatly indebted. It had the subtitle \"Occult Science\" instead of \"Mystic Christianity\" and just above the message and mission (\"A Sane Mind, a Soft Heart and a Sound Body\", \"Service\") there was a quotation from Paul of Tarsus: \"PROVE ALL THINGS\".\nIn the subsequent edition, Heindel removed the initial dedication and changed the mentioned elements. The first dedication became a controversial issue among some students of both teachers down to the present. However, as both Heindel and Steiner appear to have been influenced by the same Elder Brother of the Rose Cross, to some extent and at some stage of their lives, it becomes an accessory issue that may only be unveiled through the discernment of the student along her/his path of spiritual unfoldment.\n\nThe author talks about the true man and his journey through involution, spiritual evolution and epigenesis, presenting practical methods to help the development of latent potentials in each one of us and how to transmute our latency into dynamic powers in order to achieve, according to the author, direct knowledge and conscientious work in the inner planes.\n\nIt deals with many esoteric topics and also metaphysics, physiology and cosmology (the visible and invisible worlds, human evolution, death and rebirth, nutrition, esoteric training, ...). It contains a history of the evolution of the human spirit and related bodies (from before awareness, through various incarnations of our planet on various planes, and into the future development) and of animal, vegetable and mineral life waves (the myriad life forms and types of consciousness on this physical plane, experiencing their own points in evolution). It also presents an esoteric interpretation about the mission of Christ and an occult analysis of Biblical texts which include the fall of man, the Law of Cause and Consequence and Bible and rebirth, and many other themes which were further developed in the subsequent books, lectures and lessons given by the author at the time (1910s) in the United States.\n\n\"The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception\" is divided in three parts:\nPart I: the Visible and the Invisible Worlds, Man and the Method of Evolution, Rebirth and the Law of Cause and Effect; \nPart II: the scheme of Evolution in general and the Evolution of the Solar System and the Earth in particular; \nPart III: Christ and His Mission, Future Development of Man and Initiation, Esoteric Training and a Safe Method of Acquiring Firsthand Knowledge.\n\nAccording to the \"Western Wisdom Teachings\", in the beginning of a \"Day of Manifestation\" a certain collective Great Being, God, limits Himself to a certain portion of space, in which He elects to create a Solar System for the evolution of added self-consciousness.\nIn God there are contained hosts of glorious Hierarchies and lesser beings of every grade of intelligence and stage of consciousness, from omniscience to an unconsciousness deeper than that of the deepest trance condition.\nDuring the current period of manifestation these various grades of beings are working to acquire more experience than they possessed at the beginning of this period of existence. Those who, in previous manifestations, have attained the highest degree of development work on those who have not yet evolved any consciousness.\n\nThe period of time devoted to the attainment of self-consciousness and to the building of the vehicles through which the spirit in man manifests, is called \"Involution\". The succeeding period of existence, during which the individual human being develops \"self-consciousness\" into \"divine omniscience\", is called \"Evolution\". Every evolving being has within him a \"force\" which makes evolution not to be a mere enfoldment of latent germinal possibilities but a process where each individual differ from that of every other. This force, called \"Epigenesis\", provides the element of originality and gives scope to the creative ability which the evolving being is to cultivate that he may become a God.\n\n\"The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception\" describes that in the Solar system, God's Habitation, there are seven Worlds differentiated by God, within Himself, one after another. These Worlds have each a different \"measure\" and rate of vibration and are not separated by space or distance, as is the earth from the other planets. They are states of matter, of varying density and vibration (as are the solids, liquids and gases of the physical Earth). These Worlds are not instantaneously created at the beginning of a day of Manifestation, nor do they last until the end. The evolutionary scheme is carried through five of these Worlds in seven great Periods of manifestation, during which the evolving virgin spirit becomes first human and then a God.\nThe highest Worlds are created first, and as involution is to slowly carry the life into denser and denser matter for the building of forms, the finer Worlds gradually condense and new Worlds are differentiated within God to furnish the necessary links between Himself and the Worlds which have consolidated. In due time the point of greatest density, the nadir of materiality, is reached. From that point the life begins to ascend into higher Worlds, as evolution proceeds. That leaves the denser Worlds depopulated, one by one. When the purpose has been served for which a particular World was created, God ends its existence, which has become superfluous, by ceasing within Himself the particular activity which brought into being and sustained that World.\n\nThe Rosicrucians teach that the above referred seven Worlds belong to the lowest of the seven \"Cosmic Planes\". The Worlds and Cosmic Planes are not one above another in space, but the seven Cosmic Planes inter-penetrate each other and all the seven Worlds. They are states of spirit-matter, permeating one another, so that God and the other great Beings pervade every part of their own realms and realms of greater density than their own, including our world: \"in Him we live and move and have our being\". Proceeding from the physical world to the inner worlds, God - the \"Architect of the Solar System\", the Source and goal of human existence – is found in the highest division of the seventh Cosmic Plane: this is His World. In order to trace the origin of the Architect of the Solar System, one must pass to the highest of the seven Cosmic Planes: the \"Realm of the Supreme Being\", Who emanated from \"The Absolute\". The Absolute is beyond comprehension and, as manifestation implies limitation, He may be best described as \"Boundless Being\": the \"Root of Existence\".\n\nFrom The Absolute proceeds the Supreme Being, at the dawn of manifestation: this is \"The One\", the \"Great Architect of the Universe\". The first aspect of the Supreme Being may be characterized as \"Power\", from this proceeds the second aspect, \"the Word\", and from both of these proceeds the third, aspect, \"Motion\". From the threefold Supreme Being proceed the \"seven Great Logoi\". They contain within Themselves all the great Hierarchies which differentiate more and more as they diffuse through the various Cosmic Planes. In the Highest World of the seventh Cosmic Plane dwells the God of the Solar Systems in the Universe. These great Beings are also threefold in manifestation, like the Supreme Being. Their three aspects are \"Will\", \"Wisdom\" and \"Activity\".\n\nBy Max Heindel in \"A Word to the Wise\":\n\n\nBy Charles Weber in \"The Mystic and Occult in Max Heindel's Writings\":\n\n\nThe first edition was printed in 1909 and has changed little since then.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31792", "title": "Utilitarianism", "text": "Utilitarianism\n\nUtilitarianism is an ethical theory that states that the best action is the one that maximizes utility, which is usually defined as that which produces the greatest well-being of the greatest number of people, and in some cases, sentient animals. Jeremy Bentham, the founder of utilitarianism, described utility as the sum of all pleasure that results from an action, minus the suffering of anyone involved in the action. Utilitarianism is a version of consequentialism, which states that the consequences of any action are the only standard of right and wrong. Unlike other forms of consequentialism, such as egoism and altruism, utilitarianism considers the interests of all beings equally.\n\nProponents of utilitarianism have disagreed on a number of points, such as whether actions should be chosen based on their likely results (act utilitarianism) or whether agents should conform to rules that maximize utility (rule utilitarianism). There is also disagreement as to whether total (total utilitarianism), average (average utilitarianism) or minimum utility should be maximized.\n\nThough the seeds of the theory can be found in the hedonists Aristippus and Epicurus, who viewed happiness as the only good, the tradition of utilitarianism properly began with Bentham, and has included John Stuart Mill, Henry Sidgwick, R. M. Hare, David Braybrooke, and Peter Singer. It has been applied to social welfare economics, the crisis of global poverty, the ethics of raising animals for food and the importance of avoiding existential risks to humanity.\n\nBenthamism, the utilitarian philosophy founded by Jeremy Bentham, was substantially modified by his successor John Stuart Mill, who popularized the word 'Utilitarianism'. In 1861, Mill acknowledged in a footnote that, though \"believing himself to be the first person who brought the word 'utilitarian' into use, he did not invent it. Rather, he adopted it from a passing expression in\" John Galt's 1821 novel \"Annals of the Parish\". Mill seems to have been unaware that Bentham had used the term 'utilitarian' in his 1781 letter to George Wilson and his 1802 letter to Étienne Dumont.\n\nThe importance of happiness as an end for humans has long been recognized. Forms of hedonism were put forward by Aristippus and Epicurus; Aristotle argued that eudaimonia is the highest human good and Augustine wrote that \"all men agree in desiring the last end, which is happiness.\" Happiness was also explored in depth by Aquinas. Different varieties of consequentialism also existed in the ancient and medieval world, like the state consequentialism of Mohism or the political philosophy of Niccolò Machiavelli. Mohist consequentialism advocated communitarian moral goods including political stability, population growth, and wealth, but did not support the utilitarian notion of maximizing individual happiness. Machiavelli was also an exponent of consequentialism. He believed that the actions of a state, however cruel or ruthless they may be, must contribute towards the common good of a society. Utilitarianism as a distinct ethical position only emerged in the eighteenth century.\n\nAlthough utilitarianism is usually thought to start with Jeremy Bentham, there were earlier writers who presented theories that were strikingly similar. In \"An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals\", David Hume writes:\n\nHume studied the works of, and corresponded with, Francis Hutcheson, and it was he who first introduced a key utilitarian phrase. In \"An Inquiry into the Original of Our Ideas of Beauty and Virtue\" (1725), Hutcheson says when choosing the most moral action, virtue is in proportion to the number of people a particular action brings happiness to. In the same way, moral evil, or vice, is proportionate to the number of people made to suffer. The best action is the one that procures the greatest happiness of the greatest numbers—and the worst is the one that causes the most misery.\n\nIn the first three editions of the book, Hutcheson included various mathematical algorithms \"...to compute the Morality of any Actions.\" In this, he pre-figured the hedonic calculus of Bentham.\n\nSome claim that John Gay developed the first systematic theory of utilitarian ethics. In \"Concerning the Fundamental Principle of Virtue or Morality\" (1731), Gay argues that:\nThis pursuit of happiness is given a theological basis:\n\nGay's theological utilitarianism was developed and popularized by William Paley. It has been claimed that Paley was not a very original thinker and that the philosophical part of his treatise on ethics is \"an assemblage of ideas developed by others and is presented to be learned by students rather than debated by colleagues.\" Nevertheless, his book \"The Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy\" (1785) was a required text at Cambridge and Smith says that Paley's writings were \"once as well known in American colleges as were the readers and spellers of William McGuffey and Noah Webster in the elementary schools.\" Although now largely missing from the philosophical canon, Schneewind writes that \"utilitarianism first became widely known in England through the work of William Paley.\" The now forgotten significance of Paley can be judged from the title of Thomas Rawson Birks's 1874 work \"Modern Utilitarianism or the Systems of Paley, Bentham and Mill Examined and Compared\".\n\nApart from restating that happiness as an end is grounded in the nature of God, Paley also discusses the place of rules. He writes:\n\nBentham's book \"An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\" was printed in 1780 but not published until 1789. It is possible that Bentham was spurred on to publish after he saw the success of Paley's \"The Principles of Moral and Political Philosophy\". Bentham's book was not an immediate success but his ideas were spread further when Pierre Étienne Louis Dumont translated edited selections from a variety of Bentham's manuscripts into French. \"Traité de legislation civile et pénale\" was published in 1802 and then later retranslated back into English by Hildreth as \"The Theory of Legislation\", although by this time significant portions of Dumont's work had already been retranslated and incorporated into Sir John Bowring's edition of Bentham's works, which was issued in parts between 1838 and 1843.\n\nBentham's work opens with a statement of the principle of utility:\n\nIn Chapter IV, Bentham introduces a method of calculating the value of pleasures and pains, which has come to be known as the hedonic calculus. Bentham says that the value of a pleasure or pain, considered by itself, can be measured according to its intensity, duration, certainty/uncertainty and propinquity/remoteness. In addition, it is necessary to consider \"the tendency of any act by which it is produced\" and, therefore, to take account of the act's fecundity, or the chance it has of being followed by sensations of the same kind and its purity, or the chance it has of not being followed by sensations of the opposite kind. Finally, it is necessary to consider the extent, or the number of people affected by the action.\n\nPerhaps aware that Hutcheson eventually removed his algorithms for calculating the greatest happiness because they \"appear'd useless, and were disagreeable to some readers\", Bentham contends that there is nothing novel or unwarranted about his method, for \"in all this there is nothing but what the practice of mankind, wheresoever they have a clear view of their own interest, is perfectly conformable to.\"\n\nRosen warns that descriptions of utilitarianism can bear \"little resemblance historically to utilitarians like Bentham and J. S. Mill\" and can be more \"a crude version of act utilitarianism conceived in the twentieth century as a straw man to be attacked and rejected.\" It is a mistake to think that Bentham is not concerned with rules. His seminal work is concerned with the principles of legislation and the hedonic calculus is introduced with the words \"Pleasures then, and the avoidance of pains, are the ends that the legislator has in view.\" In Chapter VII, Bentham says: \"The business of government is to promote the happiness of the society, by punishing and rewarding… In proportion as an act tends to disturb that happiness, in proportion as the tendency of it is pernicious, will be the demand it creates for punishment.\"\n\nThe question then arises as to when, if at all, it might be legitimate to break the law. This is considered in \"The Theory of Legislation\", where Bentham distinguishes between evils of the first and second orders. Those of the first order are the more immediate consequences; those of the second are when the consequences spread through the community causing \"alarm\" and \"danger\".\n\nIt is true there are cases in which, if we confine ourselves to the effects of the first order, the good will have an incontestable preponderance over the evil. Were the offence considered only under this point of view, it would not be easy to assign any good reasons to justify the rigour of the laws. Every thing depends upon the evil of the second order; it is this which gives to such actions the character of crime, and which makes punishment necessary. Let us take, for example, the physical desire of satisfying hunger. Let a beggar, pressed by hunger, steal from a rich man's house a loaf, which perhaps saves him from starving, can it be possible to compare the good which the thief acquires for himself, with the evil which the rich man suffers? … It is not on account of the evil of the first order that it is necessary to erect these actions into offences, but on account of the evil of the second order.\n\nMill was brought up as a Benthamite with the explicit intention that he would carry on the cause of utilitarianism. Mill's book \"Utilitarianism\" first appeared as a series of three articles published in \"Fraser's Magazine\" in 1861 and was reprinted as a single book in 1863.\n\nMill rejects a purely quantitative measurement of utility and says:\nThe word utility is used to mean general well-being or happiness, and Mill's view is that utility is the consequence of a good action. Utility, within the context of utilitarianism, refers to people performing actions for social utility. With social utility, he means the well-being of many people. Mill's explanation of the concept of utility in his work, Utilitarianism, is that people really do desire happiness, and since each individual desires their own happiness, it must follow that all of us desire the happiness of everyone, contributing to a larger social utility. Thus, an action that results in the greatest pleasure for the utility of society is the best action, or as Jeremy Bentham, the founder of early Utilitarianism put it, as the greatest happiness of the greatest number.\n\nMill not only viewed actions as a core part of utility, but as the directive rule of moral human conduct. The rule being that we should only be committing actions that provide pleasure to society. This view of pleasure was hedonistic, as it pursued the thought that pleasure is the highest good in life. This concept was adopted by Jeremy Bentham, the founder of Utilitarianism, and can be seen in his works. According to Mill, good actions result in pleasure, and that there is no higher end than pleasure. Mill says that good actions lead to pleasure and define good character. Better put, the justification of character, and whether an action is good or not, is based on how the person contributes to the concept of social utility. In the long run the best proof of a good character is good actions; and resolutely refuse to consider any mental disposition as good, of which the predominant tendency is to produce bad conduct. In the last chapter of Utilitarianism, Mill concludes that justice, as a classifying factor of our actions (being just or unjust) is one of the certain moral requirements, and when the requirements are all regarded collectively, they are viewed as greater according to this scale of \"social utility\" as Mill puts it.\n\nHe also notes that, contrary to what its critics might say, there is \"no known Epicurean theory of life which does not assign to the pleasures of the intellect… a much higher value as pleasures than to those of mere sensation.\" However, he accepts that this is usually because the intellectual pleasures are thought to have circumstantial advantages, i.e. \"greater permanency, safety, uncostliness, &c.\" Instead, Mill will argue that some pleasures are intrinsically better than others.\n\nThe accusation that hedonism is \"doctrine worthy only of swine\" has a long history. In Nicomachean Ethics (Book 1 Chapter 5), Aristotle says that identifying the good with pleasure is to prefer a life suitable for beasts. The theological utilitarians had the option of grounding their pursuit of happiness in the will of God; the hedonistic utilitarians needed a different defence. Mill's approach is to argue that the pleasures of the intellect are intrinsically superior to physical pleasures.\n\nFew human creatures would consent to be changed into any of the lower animals, for a promise of the fullest allowance of a beast's pleasures; no intelligent human being would consent to be a fool, no instructed person would be an ignoramus, no person of feeling and conscience would be selfish and base, even though they should be persuaded that the fool, the dunce, or the rascal is better satisfied with his lot than they are with theirs… A being of higher faculties requires more to make him happy, is capable probably of more acute suffering, and certainly accessible to it at more points, than one of an inferior type; but in spite of these liabilities, he can never really wish to sink into what he feels to be a lower grade of existence… It is better to be a human being dissatisfied than a pig satisfied; better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied. And if the fool, or the pig, are of a different opinion, it is because they only know their own side of the question…\n\nMill argues that if people who are \"competently acquainted\" with two pleasures show a decided preference for one even if it be accompanied by more discontent and \"would not resign it for any quantity of the other\", then it is legitimate to regard that pleasure as being superior in quality. Mill recognizes that these \"competent judges\" will not always agree, and states that, in cases of disagreement, the judgment of the majority is to be accepted as final. Mill also acknowledges that \"many who are capable of the higher pleasures, occasionally, under the influence of temptation, postpone them to the lower. But this is quite compatible with a full appreciation of the intrinsic superiority of the higher.\" Mill says that this appeal to those who have experienced the relevant pleasures is no different from what must happen when assessing the quantity of pleasure, for there is no other way of measuring \"the acutest of two pains, or the intensest of two pleasurable sensations.\" \"It is indisputable that the being whose capacities of enjoyment are low, has the greatest chance of having them fully satisfied; and a highly-endowed being will always feel that any happiness which he can look for, as the world is constitute, is imperfect.\"\n\nMill also thinks that “intellectual pursuits have value out of proportion to the amount of contentment or pleasure (the mental state) that they produce”. Mill also says that people should pursue these grand ideals, because if they choose to have gratification from petty pleasures, “some displeasure will eventually creep in. We will become bored and depressed.” Mill claims that gratification from petty pleasures only gives short- term happiness and, subsequently, worsens the individual who may feel that his life lacks happiness, since the happiness is transient. Whereas, intellectual pursuits give long term happiness because provide the individual with constant opportunities throughout the years to improve his life, by benefiting from accruing knowledge. It should be noted that Mill’s views intellectual pursuits as “capable of incorporating the 'finer things' in life” while petty pursuits do not achieve this goal. Mill is saying that intellectual pursuits gives the individual the opportunity to escape the constant depression cycle since these pursuits allow them to achieve their ideals, while petty pleasures do not offer this. Although debate persists about the nature of Mill's view of gratification, this suggests that his was a bifurcated position.\n\nIn Chapter Four of \"Utilitarianism\", Mill considers what proof can be given for the principle of utility. He says:\nIt is usual to say that Mill is committing a number of fallacies. He is accused of committing the naturalistic fallacy, because he is trying to deduce what people ought to do from what they in fact do; the fallacy of equivocation, because he moves from the fact that (1) something is desirable, i.e. is capable of being desired, to the claim that (2) it is desirable, i.e. that it ought to be desired; and the fallacy of composition, because the fact that people desire their own happiness does not imply that the aggregate of all persons will desire the general happiness.\n\nSuch allegations began to emerge in Mill's lifetime, shortly after the publication of \"Utilitarianism\", and persisted for well over a century, though the tide has been turning in recent discussions.\n\nA defence of Mill against all three charges, with a chapter devoted to each, can be found in Necip Fikri Alican's \"Mill's Principle of Utility: A Defense of John Stuart Mill's Notorious Proof\" (1994). This is the first, and remains the only, book-length treatment of the subject matter. Yet the alleged fallacies in the proof continue to attract scholarly attention in journal articles and book chapters.\n\nHall and Popkin defend Mill against this accusation pointing out that he begins Chapter Four by asserting that \"questions of ultimate ends do not admit of proof, in the ordinary acceptation of the term\" and that this is \"common to all first principles.\" According to Hall and Popkin, therefore, Mill does not attempt to \"establish that what people do desire is desirable but merely attempts to make the principles acceptable.\" The type of \"proof\" Mill is offering \"consists only of some considerations which, Mill thought, might induce an honest and reasonable man to accept utilitarianism.\"\n\nHaving claimed that people do, in fact, desire happiness, Mill now has to show that it is the \"only\" thing they desire. Mill anticipates the objection that people desire other things such as virtue. He argues that whilst people might start desiring virtue as a \"means\" to happiness, eventually, it becomes part of someone's happiness and is then desired as an end in itself.\n\nThe description of ideal utilitarianism was first used by Hastings Rashdall in \"The Theory of Good and Evil\" (1907), but it is more often associated with G. E. Moore. In \"Ethics\" (1912), Moore rejected a purely hedonistic utilitarianism and argued that there is a range of values that might be maximized. Moore's strategy was to show that it is intuitively implausible that pleasure is the sole measure of what is good. He says that such an assumption:\nMoore admits that it is impossible to prove the case either way, but he believed that it was intuitively obvious that even if the amount of pleasure stayed the same a world that contained such things as beauty and love would be a better world. He adds that, if a person was to take the contrary view, then \"I think it is self-evident that he would be wrong.\"\n\nIn the mid-twentieth century a number of philosophers focused on the place of rules in utilitarian thinking. It was already accepted that it is necessary to use rules to help you choose the right action because the problems of calculating the consequences on each and every occasion would almost certainly result in you frequently choosing something less than the best course of action. Paley had justified the use of rules and Mill says:\n\nHowever, rule utilitarianism proposes a more central role for rules that was thought to rescue the theory from some of its more devastating criticisms, particularly problems to do with justice and promise keeping. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, articles were published both for and against the new form of utilitarianism, and through this debate the theory we now call rule utilitarianism was created. In an introduction to an anthology of these articles, the editor was able to say: \"The development of this theory was a dialectical process of formulation, criticism, reply and reformulation; the record of this process well illustrates the co-operative development of a philosophical theory.\"\n\nSmart and McCloskey initially used the terms 'extreme' and 'restricted' utilitarianism but eventually everyone settled on the terms 'act' and 'rule' utilitarianism.\n\nThe essential difference is in what determines whether or not an action is the right action. Act utilitarianism maintains that an action is right if it maximizes utility; rule utilitarianism maintains that an action is right if it conforms to a rule that maximizes utility.\n\nIn 1956, Urmson published an influential article arguing that Mill justified rules on utilitarian principles. From then on, articles have debated this interpretation of Mill. In all probability, it was not a distinction that Mill was particularly trying to make and so the evidence in his writing is inevitably mixed. A collection of Mill's writing published in 1977 includes a letter in which he says:\nThis seems to tip the balance in favour of saying that Mill is best classified as an act utilitarian.\n\nSome school level textbooks and at least one UK examination board make a further distinction between strong and weak rule utilitarianism. However, it is not clear that this distinction is made in the academic literature.\n\nIt has been argued that rule utilitarianism collapses into act utilitarianism, because for any given rule, in the case where breaking the rule produces more utility, the rule can be refined by the addition of a sub-rule that handles cases like the exception. This process holds for all cases of exceptions, and so the \"rules\" have as many \"sub-rules\" as there are exceptional cases, which, in the end, makes an agent seek out whatever outcome produces the maximum utility.\n\nIn \"Principles\" (1973), R. M. Hare accepts that rule utilitarianism collapses into act utilitarianism but claims that this is a result of allowing the rules to be \"as specific and un-general as we please.\" He argues that one of the main reasons for introducing rule utilitarianism was to do justice to the general rules that people need for moral education and character development and he proposes that \"a difference between act-utilitarianism and rule-utilitarianism can be introduced by limiting the specificity of the rules, i.e., by increasing their generality.\" This distinction between a \"specific rule utilitarianism\" (which collapses into act utilitarianism) and \"general rule utilitarianism\" forms the basis of Hare's two-level utilitarianism.\n\nWhen we are \"playing God or the ideal observer\", we use the specific form, and we will need to do this when we are deciding what general principles to teach and follow. When we are \"inculcating\" or in situations where the biases of our human nature are likely to prevent us doing the calculations properly, then we should use the more general rule utilitarianism.\n\nHare argues that in practice, most of the time, we should be following the general principles:\n\nIn \"Moral Thinking\" (1981), Hare illustrated the two extremes. The \"archangel\" is the hypothetical person who has perfect knowledge of the situation and no personal biases or weaknesses and always uses critical moral thinking to decide the right thing to do; the \"prole\" is the hypothetical person who is completely incapable of critical thinking and uses nothing but intuitive moral thinking and, of necessity, has to follow the general moral rules they have been taught or learned through imitation. It is not that some people are archangels and others proles, but rather that \"we all share the characteristics of both to limited and varying degrees and at different times.\"\n\nHare does not specify when we should think more like an \"archangel\" and more like a \"prole\" as this will, in any case, vary from person to person. However, the critical moral thinking underpins and informs the more intuitive moral thinking. It is responsible for formulating and, if necessary, reformulating the general moral rules. We also switch to critical thinking when trying to deal with unusual situations or in cases where the intuitive moral rules give conflicting advice.\n\nThe concept of preference utilitarianism was first proposed in 1977 by John Harsanyi in \"Morality and the theory of rational behaviour\", but preference utilitarianism is more commonly associated with R. M. Hare, Peter Singer and Richard Brandt.\n\nHarsanyi claimed that his theory is indebted to Adam Smith, who equated the moral point of view with that of an impartial but sympathetic observer; to Kant, who insisted on the criterion of universality, which may also be described as a criterion of reciprocity; to the classical utilitarians who made maximizing social utility the basic criterion of morality; and to \"the modern theory of rational behaviour under risk and uncertainty, usually described as Bayesian decision theory\".\n\nHarsanyi rejects hedonistic utilitarianism as being dependent on an outdated psychology saying that it is far from obvious that everything we do is motivated by a desire to maximize pleasure and minimize pain. He also rejects ideal utilitarianism because \"it is certainly not true as an empirical observation that people's only purpose in life is to have 'mental states of intrinsic worth'.\"\n\nAccording to Harsanyi, \"preference utilitarianism is the only form of utilitarianism consistent with the important philosophical principle of preference autonomy. By this I mean the principle that, in deciding what is good and what is bad for a given individual, the ultimate criterion can only be his own wants and his own preferences.\"\n\nHarsanyi adds two caveats. People sometimes have irrational preferences. To deal with this, Harsanyi distinguishes between \"manifest\" preferences and \"true\" preferences. The former are those \"manifested by his observed behaviour, including preferences possibly based on erroneous factual beliefs, or on careless logical analysis, or on strong emotions that at the moment greatly hinder rational choice\" whereas the latter are \"the preferences he would have if he had all the relevant factual information, always reasoned with the greatest possible care, and were in a state of mind most conducive to rational choice.\" It is the latter that preference utilitarianism tries to satisfy.\n\nThe second caveat is that antisocial preferences, such as sadism, envy and resentment, have to be excluded. Harsanyi achieves this by claiming that such preferences partially exclude those people from the moral community:\n\nIn \"The Open Society and its Enemies\" (1945), Karl Popper argued that the principle \"maximize pleasure\" should be replaced by \"minimize pain\". He thought \"it is not only impossible but very dangerous to attempt to maximize the pleasure or the happiness of the people, since such an attempt must lead to totalitarianism.\" He claimed that:\n\nThe actual term \"negative utilitarianism\" was introduced by R.N.Smart as the title to his 1958 reply to Popper in which he argued that the principle would entail seeking the quickest and least painful method of killing the entirety of humanity.\n\nNegative \"total\" utilitarianism, in contrast, tolerates suffering that can be compensated within the same person.\n\nNegative \"preference\" utilitarianism avoids the problem of moral killing with reference to existing preferences that such killing would violate, while it still demands a justification for the creation of new lives. A possible justification is the reduction of the average level of preference-frustration.\n\nOthers see negative utilitarianism as a branch within modern hedonistic utilitarianism, which assigns a higher weight to the avoidance of suffering than to the promotion of happiness. The moral weight of suffering can be increased by using a \"compassionate\" utilitarian metric, so that the result is the same as in prioritarianism.\n\nPessimistic representatives of negative utilitarianism can be found in the environment of Buddhism.\n\nMotive utilitarianism was first proposed by Robert Merrihew Adams in 1976. Whereas act utilitarianism requires us to choose our actions by calculating which action will maximize utility and rule utilitarianism requires us to implement rules that will, on the whole, maximize utility, motive utilitarianism \"has the utility calculus being used to select motives and dispositions according to their general felicific effects, and those motives and dispositions then dictate our choices of actions.\"\n\nThe arguments for moving to some form of motive utilitarianism at the personal level can be seen as mirroring the arguments for moving to some form of rule utilitarianism at the social level. Adams refers to Sidgwick's observation that \"Happiness (general as well as individual) is likely to be better attained if the extent to which we set ourselves consciously to aim at it be carefully restricted.\" Trying to apply the utility calculation on each and every occasion is likely to lead to a sub-optimal outcome. Applying carefully selected rules at the social level and encouraging appropriate motives at the personal level is, so it is argued, likely to lead to a better overall outcome even if on some individual occasions it leads to the wrong action when assessed according to act utilitarian standards.\n\nAdams concludes that \"right action, by act-utilitarian standards, and right motivation, by motive-utilitarian standards, are incompatible in some cases.\" The necessity of this conclusion is rejected by Fred Feldman who argues that \"the conflict in question results from an inadequate formulation of the utilitarian doctrines; motives play no essential role in it…(and that)… Precisely the same sort of conflict arises even when MU is left out of consideration and AU is applied by itself.\" Instead, Feldman proposes a variant of act utilitarianism that results in there being no conflict between it and motive utilitarianism.\n\nBecause utilitarianism is not a single theory but a cluster of related theories that have been developed over two hundred years, criticisms can be made for different reasons and have different targets.\n\nA common objection to utilitarianism is the inability to quantify, compare, or measure happiness or well-being. Ray Briggs writes in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy:\n\nUtility understood this way is a personal preference, in the absence of any objective measurement.\n\nAs Rosen has pointed out, claiming that act utilitarians are not concerned about having rules is to set up a \"straw man\". Similarly, Hare refers to \"the crude caricature of act utilitarianism which is the only version of it that many philosophers seem to be acquainted with.\" Given what Bentham says about second order evils it would be a serious misrepresentation to say that he and similar act utilitarians would be prepared to punish an innocent person for the greater good. Nevertheless, whether they would agree or not, this is what critics of utilitarianism claim is entailed by the theory. A classic version of this criticism was given by H. J. McCloskey:\nBy \"extreme\" utilitarian, McCloskey is referring to what later came to be called \"act\" utilitarianism. He suggests one response might be that the sheriff would not frame the innocent negro because of another rule: \"do not punish an innocent person\". Another response might be that the riots the sheriff is trying to avoid might have positive utility in the long run by drawing attention to questions of race and resources to help address tensions between the communities.\n\nIn a later article, McCloskey says:\nSome argue that it is impossible to do the calculation that utilitarianism requires because consequences are inherently unknowable. Daniel Dennett describes this as the Three Mile Island effect. Dennett points out that not only is it impossible to assign a precise utility value to the incident, it is impossible to know whether, ultimately, the near-meltdown that occurred was a good or bad thing. He suggests that it would have been a good thing if plant operators learned lessons that prevented future serious incidents.\n\nRussell Hardin rejects such arguments. He argues that it is possible to distinguish the moral impulse of utilitarianism (which is \"to define the right as good consequences and to motivate people to achieve these\") from our ability to correctly apply rational principles that, among other things, \"depend on the perceived facts of the case and on the particular moral actor's mental equipment.\" The fact that the latter is limited and can change doesn't mean that the former has to be rejected. \"If we develop a better system for determining relevant causal relations so that we are able to choose actions that better produce our intended ends, it does not follow that we then must change our ethics. The moral impulse of utilitarianism is constant, but our decisions under it are contingent on our knowledge and scientific understanding.\"\n\nFrom the beginning, utilitarianism has recognized that certainty in such matters is unobtainable and both Bentham and Mill said that it was necessary to rely on the \"tendencies\" of actions to bring about consequences. G. E. Moore, writing in 1903, said:\nAct utilitarianism not only requires everyone to do what they can to maximize utility, but to do so without any favouritism. Mill said, \"As between his own happiness and that of others, utilitarianism requires him to be as strictly impartial as a disinterested and benevolent spectator.\" Critics say that this combination of requirements leads to utilitarianism making unreasonable demands. The well-being of strangers counts just as much as that of friends, family or self. \"What makes this requirement so demanding is the gargantuan number of strangers in great need of help and the indefinitely many opportunities to make sacrifices to help them.\" As Shelly Kagan says, \"Given the parameters of the actual world, there is no question that …(maximally)… promoting the good would require a life of hardship, self-denial, and austerity…a life spent promoting the good would be a severe one indeed.\"\n\nHooker describes two aspects to the problem: act utilitarianism requires \"huge\" sacrifices from those who are relatively better off and also requires sacrifice of your own good even when the aggregate good will be only \"slightly\" increased. Another way of highlighting the complaint is to say that in utilitarianism, \"there is no such thing as morally permissible self-sacrifice that goes above and beyond the call of duty.\" Mill was quite clear about this, \"A sacrifice which does not increase, or tend to increase, the sum total of happiness, it considers as wasted.\"\n\nOne response to the problem is to accept its demands. This is the view taken by Peter Singer, who says: \"No doubt we do instinctively prefer to help those who are close to us. Few could stand by and watch a child drown; many can ignore the avoidable deaths of children in Africa or India. The question, however, is not what we usually do, but what we ought to do, and it is difficult to see any sound moral justification for the view that distance, or community membership, makes a crucial difference to our obligations.\"\n\nOthers argue that a moral theory that is so contrary to our deeply held moral convictions must either be rejected or modified. There have been various attempts to modify utilitarianism to escape its seemingly over-demanding requirements. One approach is to drop the demand that utility be maximized. In Satisficing Consequentialism, Michael Slote argues for a form of utilitarianism where \"an act might qualify as morally right through having good enough consequences, even though better consequences could have been produced.\" One advantage of such a system is that it would be able to accommodate the notion of supererogatory actions.\n\nSamuel Scheffler takes a different approach and amends the requirement that everyone be treated the same. In particular, Scheffler suggests that there is an \"agent-centered prerogative\" such that when the overall utility is being calculated it is permitted to count our own interests more heavily than the interests of others. Kagan suggests that such a procedure might be justified on the grounds that \"a general requirement to promote the good would lack the motivational underpinning necessary for genuine moral requirements\" and, secondly, that personal independence is necessary for the existence of commitments and close personal relations and that \"the value of such commitments yields a positive reason for preserving within moral theory at least some moral independence for the personal point of view.\"\n\nRobert Goodin takes yet another approach and argues that the demandingness objection can be \"blunted\" by treating utilitarianism as a guide to public policy rather than one of individual morality. He suggests that many of the problems arise under the traditional formulation because the conscientious utilitarian ends up having to make up for the failings of others and so contributing more than their fair share.\n\nHarsanyi argues that the objection overlooks the fact that \"people attach considerable utility to freedom from unduly burdensome moral obligations… most people will prefer a society with a more relaxed moral code, and will feel that such a society will achieve a higher level of average utility—even if adoption of such a moral code should lead to some losses in economic and cultural accomplishments (so long as these losses remain within tolerable limits). This means that utilitarianism, if correctly interpreted, will yield a moral code with a standard of acceptable conduct very much below the level of highest moral perfection, leaving plenty of scope for supererogatory actions exceeding this minimum standard.\"\n\nThe objection that \"utilitarianism does not take seriously the distinction between persons\" came to prominence in 1971 with the publication of John Rawls' \"A Theory of Justice\". The concept is also important in animal rights advocate Richard Ryder's rejection of utilitarianism, in which he talks of the \"boundary of the individual\", through which neither pain nor pleasure may pass. However, a similar objection was noted in 1970 by Thomas Nagel (who claimed that consequentialism \"treats the desires, needs, satisfactions, and dissatisfactions of distinct persons as if they were the desires, etc., of a mass person\"), and even earlier by David Gauthier, who wrote that utilitarianism supposes \"that mankind is a super-person, whose greatest satisfaction is the objective of moral action. . . . But this is absurd. Individuals have wants, not mankind; individuals seek satisfaction, not mankind. A person's satisfaction is not part of any greater satisfaction.\" Thus, the aggregation of utility becomes futile as both pain and happiness are intrinsic to and inseparable from the consciousness in which they are felt, rendering impossible the task of adding up the various pleasures of multiple individuals.\n\nA response to this criticism is to point out that whilst seeming to resolve some problems it introduces others. Intuitively, there are many cases where people do want to take the numbers involved into account. As Alastair Norcross has said, \"suppose that Homer is faced with the painful choice between saving Barney from a burning building or saving both Moe and Apu from the building…it is clearly better for Homer to save the larger number, precisely because it is a larger number… Can anyone who really considers the matter seriously honestly claim to believe that it is worse that one person die than that the entire sentient population of the universe be severely mutilated? Clearly not.\"\n\nIt may be possible to uphold the distinction between persons whilst still aggregating utility, if it accepted that people can be influenced by empathy. This position is advocated by Iain King, who has suggested the evolutionary basis of empathy means humans can take into account the interests of other individuals, but only on a one-to-one basis, \"since we can only imagine ourselves in the mind of one other person at a time.\" King uses this insight to adapt utilitarianism, and it may help reconcile Bentham's philosophy with deontology and virtue ethics.\n\nThe philosopher John Taurek also argued that the idea of adding happiness or pleasures across persons is quite unintelligible and that the numbers of persons involved in a situation are morally irrelevant. Taurek's basic concern comes down to this: we cannot explain what it means to say that things would be five times worse if five people die than if one person dies. \"I cannot give a satisfactory account of the meaning of judgments of this kind,\" he wrote (p. 304). He argues that each person can only lose one person's happiness or pleasures. There isn't five times more loss of happiness or pleasure when five die: who would be feeling this happiness or pleasure? \"Each person's potential loss has the same significance to me, only as a loss to that person alone. because, by hypothesis, I have an equal concern for each person involved, I am moved to give each of them an equal chance to be spared his loss\" (p. 307). Parfit and others have criticized Taurek's line, and it continues to be discussed.\n\nAn early criticism, which was addressed by Mill, is that if time is taken to calculate the best course of action it is likely that the opportunity to take the best course of action will already have passed. Mill responded that there had been ample time to calculate the likely effects:\nMore recently, Hardin has made the same point. \"It should embarrass philosophers that they have ever taken this objection seriously. Parallel considerations in other realms are dismissed with eminently good sense. Lord Devlin notes, 'if the reasonable man \"worked to rule\" by perusing to the point of comprehension every form he was handed, the commercial and administrative life of the country would creep to a standstill.\n\nIt is such considerations that lead even act utilitarians to rely on \"rules of thumb\", as Smart has called them.\n\nUtilitarianism's assertion that well-being is the only thing with intrinsic moral value has been attacked by various critics.\n\nKarl Marx, in \"Das Kapital\", criticises Bentham's utilitarianism on the grounds that it does not appear to recognise that people have different joys in different socioeconomic contexts:\n\nWith the driest naivete he takes the modern shopkeeper, especially the English shopkeeper, as the normal man. Whatever is useful to this queer normal man, and to his world, is absolutely useful. This yard-measure, then, he applies to past, present, and future. The Christian religion, e.g., is \"useful,\" \"because it forbids in the name of religion the same faults that the penal code condemns in the name of the law.\" Artistic criticism is \"harmful,\" because it disturbs worthy people in their enjoyment of Martin Tupper, etc. With such rubbish has the brave fellow, with his motto, \"nulla dies sine linea [no day without a line]\", piled up mountains of books.\n\nPope John Paul II, following his personalist philosophy, argued that a danger of utilitarianism is that it tends to make persons, just as much as things, the object of use. \"Utilitarianism,\" he wrote, \"is a civilization of production and of use, a civilization of things and not of persons, a civilization in which persons are used in the same way as things are used.\"\n\nIn \"The Methods of Ethics\", Henry Sidgwick asked, \"Is it total or average happiness that we seek to make a maximum?\" He noted that aspects of the question had been overlooked and answered the question himself by saying that what had to be maximized was the average multiplied by the number of people living. He also argued that, if the \"average happiness enjoyed remains undiminished, Utilitarianism directs us to make the number enjoying it as great as possible.\" This was also the view taken earlier by Paley. He notes that, although he speaks of the happiness of communities, \"the happiness of a people is made up of the happiness of single persons; and the quantity of happiness can only be augmented by increasing the number of the percipients, or the pleasure of their perceptions\" and that if extreme cases, such as people held as slaves, are excluded the amount of happiness will usually be in proportion to the number of people. Consequently, \"the decay of population is the greatest evil that a state can suffer; and the improvement of it the object which ought, in all countries, to be aimed at in preference to every other political purpose whatsoever.\" A similar view was expressed by Smart, who argued that all other things being equal a universe with two million happy people is better than a universe with only one million happy people.\n\nSince Sidgwick raised the question it has been studied in detail and philosophers have argued that using either total or average happiness can lead to objectionable results.\n\nAccording to Derek Parfit, using total happiness falls victim to the repugnant conclusion, whereby large numbers of people with very low but non-negative utility values can be seen as a better goal than a population of a less extreme size living in comfort. In other words, according to the theory, it is a moral good to breed more people on the world for as long as total happiness rises.\n\nOn the other hand, measuring the utility of a population based on the average utility of that population avoids Parfit's repugnant conclusion but causes other problems. For example, bringing a moderately happy person into a very happy world would be seen as an immoral act; aside from this, the theory implies that it would be a moral good to eliminate all people whose happiness is below average, as this would raise the average happiness.\n\nWilliam Shaw suggests that the problem can be avoided if a distinction is made between potential people, who need not concern us, and actual future people, who should concern us. He says, \"utilitarianism values the happiness of people, not the production of units of happiness. Accordingly, one has no positive obligation to have children. However, if you have decided to have a child, then you have an obligation to give birth to the happiest child you can.\"\n\nUtilitarianism is typically taken to assess the rightness or wrongness of an action by considering just the consequences of that action. Bentham very carefully distinguishes motive from intention and says that motives are not in themselves good or bad but can be referred to as such on account of their tendency to produce pleasure or pain. He adds that, \"from every kind of motive, may proceed actions that are good, others that are bad, and others that are indifferent.\" Mill makes a similar point and explicitly says that \"motive has nothing to do with the morality of the action, though much with the worth of the agent. He who saves a fellow creature from drowning does what is morally right, whether his motive be duty, or the hope of being paid for his trouble.\"\n\nHowever, with intention the situation is more complex. In a footnote printed in the second edition of \"Utilitarianism\", Mill says: \"the morality of the action depends entirely upon the intention—that is, upon what the agent wills to do.\" Elsewhere, he says, \"Intention, and motive, are two very different things. But it is the intention, that is, the foresight of consequences, which constitutes the moral rightness or wrongness of the act.\"\n\nThe correct interpretation of Mill's footnote is a matter of some debate. The difficulty in interpretation centres around trying to explain why, since it is consequences that matter, intentions should play a role in the assessment of the morality of an action but motives should not. One possibility \"involves supposing that the 'morality' of the act is one thing, probably to do with the praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of the agent, and its rightness or wrongness another.\" Jonathan Dancy rejects this interpretation on the grounds that Mill is explicitly making intention relevant to an assessment of the act not to an assessment of the agent.\n\nAn interpretation given by Roger Crisp draws on a definition given by Mill in \"A System of Logic\", where he says that an \"intention to produce the effect, is one thing; the effect produced in consequence of the intention, is another thing; the two together constitute the action.\" Accordingly, whilst two actions may outwardly appear to be the same they will be different actions if there is a different intention. Dancy notes that this does not explain why intentions count but motives do not.\n\nA third interpretation is that an action might be considered a complex action consisting of several stages and it is the intention that determines which of these stages are to be considered part of the action. Although this is the interpretation favoured by Dancy, he recognizes that this might not have been Mill's own view, for Mill \"would not even allow that 'p & q' expresses a complex proposition. He wrote in his \"System of Logic\" I iv. 3, of 'Caesar is dead and Brutus is alive', that 'we might as well call a street a complex house, as these two propositions a complex proposition'.\"\n\nFinally, whilst motives may not play a role in determining the morality of an action, this does not preclude utilitarians from fostering particular motives if doing so will increase overall happiness.\n\nIn \"An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\" Bentham wrote \"the question is not, Can they reason? nor, Can they talk? but, Can they suffer?\" Mill's distinction between higher and lower pleasures might suggest that he gave more status to humans but in \"The Methods of Ethics\", philosopher Henry Sidgwick says \"We have next to consider who the 'all' are, whose happiness is to be taken into account. Are we to extend our concern to all the beings capable of pleasure and pain whose feelings are affected by our conduct? or are we to confine our view to human happiness? The former view is the one adopted by Bentham and Mill, and (I believe) by the Utilitarian school generally: and is obviously most in accordance with the universality that is characteristic of their principle ... it seems arbitrary and unreasonable to exclude from the end, as so conceived, any pleasure of any sentient being.\"\n\nMoreover, John Stuart Mill himself, in \"Whewell on Moral Philosophy\", defends Bentham's advocacy for animal rights, calling it a 'noble anticipation', and writing: \"Granted that any practice causes more pain to animals than it gives pleasure to man; is that practice moral or immoral? And if, exactly in proportion as human beings raise their heads out of the slough of selfishness, they do not with one voice answer 'immoral', let the morality of the principle of utility be for ever condemned.\"\n\nThe utilitarian philosopher Peter Singer and many other animal rights activists have continued to argue that the well-being of all sentient beings ought to be seriously considered. Singer suggests that rights are conferred according to the level of a creature's self-awareness, regardless of their species. He adds that humans tend to be speciesist (discriminatory against non-humans) in ethical matters, and argues that, on utilitarianism, speciesism cannot be justified as there is no rational distinction that can be made between the suffering of humans and the suffering of nonhuman animals; all suffering ought to be reduced. Singer writes: \"The racist violates the principle of equality by giving greater weight to the interests of members of his own race, when there is a clash between their interests and the interests of those of another race. Similarly the speciesist allows the interests of his own species to override the greater interests of members of other species. The pattern is the same in each case ... Most human beings are speciesists.\"\n\nIn his 1990 edition of \"Animal Liberation\", Peter Singer said that he no longer ate oysters and mussels, because although the creatures might not suffer, they might, it's not really known, and it's easy enough to avoid eating them in any case (and this aspect of seeking better alternatives is a prominent part of utilitarianism).\n\nThis view still might be contrasted with deep ecology, which holds that an intrinsic value is attached to all forms of life and nature, whether currently assumed to be sentient or not. According to utilitarianism, the forms of life that are unable to experience anything akin to either enjoyment or discomfort are denied moral status, because it is impossible to increase the happiness or reduce the suffering of something that cannot feel happiness or suffer. Singer writes:\nThe capacity for suffering and enjoying things is a prerequisite for having interests at all, a condition that must be satisfied before we can speak of interests in any meaningful way. It would be nonsense to say that it was not in the interests of a stone to be kicked along the road by a schoolboy. A stone does not have interests because it cannot suffer. Nothing that we can do to it could possibly make any difference to its welfare. A mouse, on the other hand, does have an interest in not being tormented, because it will suffer if it is. If a being suffers, there can be no moral justification for refusing to take that suffering into consideration. No matter what the nature of the being, the principle of equality requires that its suffering be counted equally with the like suffering—in so far as rough comparisons can be made—of any other being. If a being is not capable of suffering, or of experiencing enjoyment or happiness, there is nothing to be taken into account.\n\nThus, the moral value of one-celled organisms, as well as some multi-cellular organisms, and natural entities like a river, is only in the benefit they provide to sentient beings. Similarly, utilitarianism places no direct intrinsic value on biodiversity, although the benefits that biodiversity bring to sentient beings may mean that, on utilitarianism, biodiversity ought to be maintained in general.\n\nIn John Stuart Mill's essay \"On Nature\" he argues that the welfare of wild animals is to be considered when making utilitarian judgments. Tyler Cowen argues that, if individual animals are carriers of utility, then we should consider limiting the predatory activity of carnivores relative to their victims: \"At the very least, we should limit current subsidies to nature's carnivores.\"\n\nAn article in the American journal for Economics has addressed the issue of Utilitarian ethics within redistribution of wealth. The journal stated that taxation of the wealthy is the best way to make use of the disposable income they receive. This says that the money creates utility for the most people by funding government services. Many utilitarian philosophers, including Peter Singer and Toby Ord, argue that inhabitants of developed countries in particular have an obligation to help to end extreme poverty across the world, for example by regularly donating some of their income to charity. Peter Singer, for example, argues that donating some of one's income to charity could help to save a life or cure somebody from a poverty-related illness, which is a much better use of the money as it brings someone in extreme poverty far more happiness than it would bring to oneself if one lived in relative comfort. However, Singer not only argues that one ought to donate a significant proportion of one's income to charity, but also that this money should be directed to the most cost-effective charities, in order to bring about the greatest good for the greatest number, consistent with utilitarian thinking. Singer's ideas have formed the basis of the modern effective altruist movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1102521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102521", "title": "Value judgment", "text": "Value judgment\n\nA value judgment (or value judgement) is a judgment of the rightness or wrongness of something or someone, or of the usefulness of something or someone, based on a comparison or other relativity. As a generalization, a value judgment can refer to a judgment based upon a particular set of values or on a particular value system. A related meaning of value judgment is an expedient evaluation based upon limited information at hand, an evaluation undertaken because a decision must be made on short notice.\n\nThe term \"value judgment\" can be used objectively to refer to any injunction that implies an obligation to carry out an act, implicitly involving the terms \"ought\" or \"should\". It can be used either in a positive sense, signifying that a judgment must be made taking a value system into account, or in a disparaging sense, signifying a judgment made by personal whim rather than objective thought or evidence.\n\nIn its positive sense, a recommendation to make a value judgment is an admonition to consider carefully, to avoid whim and impetuousness, and search for consonance with one's deeper convictions, and to search for an objective, verifiable, public, and consensual set of evidence for the opinion.\n\nIn its disparaging sense the term \"value judgment\" implies a conclusion is insular, one-sided, and not objective — contrasting with judgments based upon deliberation, balance and public evidence.\n\n\"Value judgment\" also can refer to a tentative judgment based on a considered appraisal of the information at hand, taken to be incomplete and evolving—for example, a \"value judgment\" on whether to launch a military attack, or as to procedure in a medical emergency. In this case the quality of judgment suffers because the information available is incomplete as a result of exigency, rather than as a result of cultural or personal limitations.\n\nMost commonly the term \"value judgment\" refers to an individual's opinion. Of course, the individual's opinion is formed to a degree by their belief system, and the culture to which they belong. So a natural extension of the term \"value judgment\" is to include declarations seen one way from one value system, but may be seen differently from another. Conceptually this extension of definition is related both to the anthropological axiom \"cultural relativism\" (that is, that cultural meaning derives from a context) and to the term \"moral relativism\" (that is, that moral and ethical propositions are not universal truths, but stem from cultural context). A value judgment formed within a specific value system may be parochial, and may be subject to dispute in a wider audience.\n\n \nNonjudgmental is a descriptor that conveys the opposite meaning to the pejorative sense of value judgment: it expresses avoidance of personal opinion and reflex \"knee-jerk\" reactions.\n\nNonjudgmental implies open-mindedness, rejection of uninformed assumptions, and avoidance of blame. It may also suggest a capacity for compassion and empathy.\n\nJudgment call is a term describing decision made on a personal basis.\n\nValue-neutral is a related adjective suggesting independence from a value system. The object itself is considered value-neutral when it is neither good nor bad, neither useful nor useless, neither significant nor trite, until placed in some social context. For example, the classification of an object sometimes depends upon context: Is an object a tool or a weapon, is a human remain an artifact or an ancestor?\n\nA famous quote from mathematician G.H. Hardy indicates how he places the \"value-neutral\" subject of mathematics into a particular social context:\nFor a discussion of whether technology is value neutral, see Martin and Schinzinger, and Wallace.\n\nAn item may have value and be value-neutral \"regardless\" of social context if its utility or importance is more-or-less self-evident, for example, oxygen supports life in all societies.\n\nSome argue that true objectivity is impossible, that even the most rigorous rational analysis is founded on the set of values accepted in the course of analysis.\nConsequently, all conclusions are necessarily value judgments (and therefore may be parochial). Of course, putting all conclusions in one category does nothing to distinguish between them, and is therefore a useless descriptor. Categorizing a conclusion as a value judgment takes substance when the context framing the judgment is specified.\nAs an example, scientific \"truths\" are considered objective, but are held tentatively, with the understanding that more careful evidence and/or wider experience might change matters. Further, a scientific view (in the sense of a conclusion based upon a value system) is a \"value judgment\" that is socially constructed based upon rigorous evaluation and wide consensus. With this example in mind, characterizing a view as a \"value judgment\" is vague without description of the context surrounding it.\n\nHowever, as noted in the first segment of this article, in common usage the term \"value judgment\" has a much simpler meaning with context simply implied, not specified.\n\n"}
