{"id": "48277368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48277368", "title": "Aluck Akech", "text": "Aluck Akech\n\nAluck Akech Mabior (born February 8, 1994), known as Aluck Akech (Aweil, South Sudan), also spelled as Aluk Akec in Dinka language, is a South Sudanese professional footballer who plays for Sudanese club Al-Merreikh SC. Aluck started his football career as street football in the Sudan before South Sudan gained its independence. In 2009 Aluck returned to the south, and Aweil Stars administrators realised that Aluck was footballer and that great realisation brought them to registration of Aluck. And in the year 2012 Aluck joined Salaam Aweil from Aweil Stars. And he spent two years with Salaam Aweil than Salaam Aweil sold him to Malakia in 2014. When Aluck was playing in Juba (the South Sudanese capital) for Malakia; South Sudan national football team administrators realized that he was capable for South Sudan national football team. And Malakia sold him to Sudanese club Al-Merreikh Costi in 2014. And Merreikh Kosti sold him to Al-Merreikh SC.\n\nAluck first started his national games with South Sudan faced Kenya, Mali, Equatorial Guinea and Mauritania. Aluck is the first South Sudanese player who was given red card in the World Cup record in Nouakchott the Mauritanian capital. On September 4, 2016 Aluck was included in the squad of South Sudan against Equatorial Guinea in last match of South Sudan in the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualification Group C.\n\nAluck was signed by Sudanese club Merreikh Omdurman-based club in 2015 and was said registered as a local Sudanese player despite representing South Sudan at international level. The Sudan Football Association have largely banned him from playing in that year, Sudan Premier League until the matter is resolved.\n"}
{"id": "6645713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6645713", "title": "Amelita Baltar", "text": "Amelita Baltar\n\nAmelita Baltar (September 24, 1940) is an Argentine singer, one of the leading voices of tango, that appeared in the 60's to be considered, along with Susana Rinaldi, as a modern counterpart of older divas such as Libertad Lamarque and Tita Merello. She is mostly known for her collaboration with composer Astor Piazzolla and writer Horacio Ferrer, specially as first performer of their song “Balada para un loco”. She starred in places such as Olympia (Paris), De Kleine Komedie (Amsterdam), Cemal Reşit Rey Concert Hall (Istanbul, Turkey), Cocoanut Grove at Ambassador Hotel (Los Angeles) or Ginásio do Maracanãzinho (Rio de Janeiro) and shared the stage with celebrities such as Charles Aznavour, Franck Pourcel, Henry Mancini, Gerry Mulligan, Gary Burton and Chick Corea.\n\nUnlike most tango artists she was born in the upper-class neighbourhood of Barrio Norte, Buenos Aires and was raised at the countryside in Junín, Buenos Aires Province.\n\nShe studied to become a school teacher and started her musical career as a singer of Argentine folk music with the band “Sombras”.\n\nPiazzolla discovered her by chance and offered her to star in his opera María de Buenos Aires.\n\nHe also started to write along with Ferrer songs for her to sing, among which “Balada para un loco” is the most famous one. Its first performance at Estadio Luna Park in 1969 aroused a scandal reminiscent of Igor Stravinsky's “The rite of spring” riot in 1913. Immediately released as a single by CBS Records International, it sold 200.000 copies in just a few weeks, thing that could only be achieved at the time in Argentina by foreigner stars such as The Beatles or local pop singers such as Palito Ortega and Sandro de América.\nInternational success followed with performances all around the world, including a half-Italian version which was broadcast on RAI TV.\n\nBack in Argentina, she performed “El gordo triste”, Piazzolla and Ferrer's tribute to Aníbal Troilo, in the presence of the honoree.\n\nAfter the split with Piazzolla in 1975 she started singing traditional tangos such as “El día que me quieras”, “Volver” and “Soledad” by Carlos Gardel, “Uno”and “Grisel” by Mariano Mores, “Cambalache” and “Yira yira” by Enrique Santos Discépolo or “La última copa” by Francisco Canaro.\n\nBut, just as Piazzolla kept performing the Ferrer songs with Italian singer Milva, so did Amelita, and in 2002 she returned to the Estadio Luna Park to perform again “Balada para un loco”, this time for international ballet star Julio Bocca to dance to.\nIn 2010 she appeared in the “Buenos Aires by night: The ultimate electronic tango voyage” DVD with the song “Frío Intenso”.\n\nIn 2012 she released the CD “El nuevo rumbo” featuring the famous rock singers Fito Páez, Pedro Aznar, Fernando Ruiz Díaz from Catupecu Machu and specially Luis Alberto Spinetta in one of his last recordings before passing away.\n\nIn her CD “Amelita Baltar canta Vinicius y Piazzolla – Bossa & Tango” released in July 2015 beside the Piazzolla classics she performs Bossa nova songs by their friend Vinicius de Moraes.\n\nA symphonic tribute to Horacio Ferrer recorded at the Solís Theatre (Montevideo) in June 2015 is due to be released.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26575463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26575463", "title": "Aqil Agha", "text": "Aqil Agha\n\nAqil Agha al-Hasi (, given name also spelled \"Aqil\", \"Aqila\", \"Akil\" or \"Akili\"; military title sometimes spelled \"Aga\") (died 1870) was the strongman of northern Palestine in the mid-19th century, during Ottoman rule. He was originally a commander of Arab irregular soldiers, known as the Hawwara tribe, in the service of the Ottoman governors of Acre. His influence in the Galilee grew as he strengthened his alliances with the powerful Beni Sakhr and Anizzah tribes of Transjordan, and recruited unemployed Bedouin irregulars from Egypt into his own band of irregulars, who thenceforth became known as the Hanadi tribe. He was known by his men and Western travelers to be courageous, cunning and charismatic, all qualities that contributed to his rise as the \"de facto\" ruler of Galilee.\n\nThroughout his rule, Aqil remained at least nominally in service to the Ottoman Empire, which paid him for protecting the roads of northern Palestine from Bedouin raids and for maintaining the security of this region. He also exacted his own tolls on the local population in return for ensuring their security. His friendly ties with the European governments were partially due to his protection of the local Christian and Jewish communities in Galilee, including his protection of Nazareth from the 1860 massacres that occurred in Ottoman Syria. Aqil's relationship with the authorities was generally tense and he rebelled directly or indirectly against their local representatives. As a consequence of this frayed relationship, Aqil's employment would frequently be terminated when his activities or influence perturbed the authorities and then reinstated when his services were needed. By the time of his death, his influence had declined significantly. He was buried in his Galilee stronghold of I'billin.\n\nWhile Palestine had been under the rule of the Ottoman Empire from the early 16th century, direct imperial administrative rule was challenged by a series of tribal leaders who exhibited vast influence over local affairs between the 17th and 19th centuries. With the Ottoman Empire embroiled in the Crimean War, the power vacuum created in the area in the wake of Zahir al-Umar's rule in the Galilee (1730–1775), Ahmad Pasha al-Jazzar's rule (1776–1804), and Muhammad Ali's rule (1831–1840), was filled by Aqil. Aqil's demise represented the end of the last local obstacle to Ottoman centralization in Palestine.\n\nBesides anecdotes provided in the writings of European consuls, most of the information on Aqil's life indirectly traces back to a history of the man written by Mikha'il Qa'war, a Nazareth clergyman. Aqil was born into a Bedouin family, known later as the Hanadi tribe. The actual Hanadi were an unrelated tribe that came to Palestine from Egypt during Egyptian rule in Palestine (1831–1840) and around 1840 joined Aqil's Hawwara tribesmen, who also had migrated from Egypt. The name \"Hanadi\" translates in Arabic as \"Indians\" and the Hanadi irregulars were referred to as such by the inhabitants of Palestine because of their dark skin.\n\nAqil's Hawwara tribesmen in Galilee were not related to the well-known Hawwara tribe of Upper Egypt, who were noted for their \"bravery, horsemanship, and equipments\" according to the Palestine Exploration Fund. The Hawwara of Galilee were actually from the Ainawiyeh tribe of the Lower Egyptian desert region who had entered the service of Ahmad Pasha al-Jazzar while the latter was based in Egypt in the late 18th century. They came with al-Jazzar to northern Palestine when al-Jazzar became the powerful Acre-based Ottoman governor of Sidon after the death of the Arab strongman of Galilee, Zahir al-Umar, in 1776. Al-Jazzar honored the Ainawiyeh tribesmen by giving them the name \"Hawwara\" to associate them with the famed Hawwara of Upper Egypt.\n\nAqil's father, Musa Agha al-Hasi, himself a commander of Hawwara irregulars in the service of Acre's Ottoman governors, had left Egypt for Gaza in 1814. He was not directly related to the Ainawiyeh or Hawwara tribes, but claimed descent from the Hawwara as a matter of convenience and prestige. Musa originally hailed from the al-Bara'asa tribe of Cyrenaica (modern-day eastern Libya). Likewise, James Finn, the British consul in Jerusalem (1846–1863), claims Aqil's family was of Algerian or North African origin. Musa Agha resided in the Galilee around 1820 and married a Turkmen woman. Aqil was born to the couple in the Nazareth area. According to historian Adel Manna, Aqil was born in Gaza. Musa had two other sons, Ali and Salih. Musa died in Gaza in 1830.\n\nAqil's power base consisted of his tribesmen and alliances with other Bedouin tribes, who inhabited both sides of the Jordan River. Aqil's brother, Salih Agha, held substantial influence in the Haifa region. Mary Rogers, the sister of the English vice consul, described in detail a banquet in Shefa-'Amr and a gazelle hunt at the invitation of Salih Agha, while another traveler witnessed the lavish wedding between a son of Salih Agha and a daughter of Aqil Agha on \"the plains of I'billin\", in circa 1857. Aqil married off another of his daughters to a Bedouin sheikh (chieftain) in Gaza, paying the highest dowry registered at the time in Gaza: 11,000 piasters. The governor of Hebron was reported to be a brother-in-law of Aqil.\n\nLike his father before him, Aqil served various masters, among whom was Ibrahim Pasha, the son of Muhammad Ali of Egypt. Aqil defected from Ibrahim Pasha's army and joined local rebels in the 1834 peasants' revolt against Egyptian conscription and disarmament measures, leading his Hawwara irregulars in the Galilee. At some point during the revolt, Aqil helped save the mostly Druze village of Isfiya from being destroyed by Ibrahim Pasha's troops after its inhabitants paid Aqil for protection. As the revolt was suppressed, Aqil and his men left Palestine for Transjordan, where they sought the protection of that region's major Bedouin tribes. During his time in Transjordan he strengthened relations with these tribes. When the Ottomans regained control of Palestine in 1840–1841, Aqil returned to the Lower Galilee and was commissioned as a captain of ten mounted irregulars. He recruited Egyptian irregulars from the Hanadi tribe and others who were left unemployed following the Egyptian withdrawal. Together with Aqil's Hawwara, they became a formidable local force. In 1843, Aqil became the chief of irregulars, known as \"bashi-bazouk\", in northern Palestine, and his command was expanded to fifty horsemen. Aqil's irregulars became known in the area as the Hanadi, although the group's tribal composition was mixed.\n\nAqil angered the \"kaimakam\" (district governor) of Acre, Muhammad Kubrisi, for his intervention in a dispute between two factions of the Catholic Church in Nazareth. One of the leaders of the Catholic factions, Sheikh Yusef Elias, had been dismissed by the church and subsequently entered Aqil's protection. He requested Aqil's intercession with Kubrisi, which was unsuccessful. When Sheikh Yusef decided to take matters into his own hands by raising a group of armed partisans in Nazareth, the church was compelled to restore his employment. Kubrisi believed Aqil had backed Sheikh Yusef's actions and accused Aqil of sedition. Kubrisi recalled Aqil and his Hawwara irregulars to Acre, verbally lambasted them and dismissed them all from service. Aqil was deeply insulted by Kubrisi's words and actions, and subsequently left for Transjordan where he sought the protection of the Beni Sakhr tribe.\n\nAqil secured a durable alliance with the Beni Sakhr, consecrated through his marriage to a woman from the tribe. From Transjordan, he and his band of irregulars raided areas on both sides of the Jordan River until he was invited back to the Galilee by Acre's \"kaimakam\" in 1847. The latter had sought to neutralize Aqil and his allies' marauding activities, and thus pardoned Aqil. He was also given command of 75 \"bashi-bazouk\" in Lower Galilee. Thereafter, he was commissioned with overseeing that region's security. In particular, the successive governors of Acre entrusted him with protecting the Galilee's trade routes and maintaining general security in the area, which he did successfully. With time, he became an unofficial \"mutasallim\" (tax collector) for much of northern Palestine, including the Jezreel Valley, Safad, Tiberias and Nazareth. The tax he collected was not on behalf of the authorities, but rather a tribute payment (\"khuwwa\") to receive his protection. While this unofficial system proved successful in guaranteeing local security, later historians criticized it as akin to a protection racket.\n\nIn 1848, Aqil assisted an expedition headed by US Navy captain William Francis Lynch to the Dead Sea, and became known in the United States and Europe through the publication of Lynch's book that year. Vivid descriptions of Aqil by Lynch are quoted at length in the works of Finn. Lynch's first encounter with Aqil was in the \"divan\" of Said Bey, the Ottoman \"kaimakam\" of Acre, and is recorded as follows:But what especially attracted my attention was a magnificent savage enveloped in a scarlet cloth pelisse richly embroidered with gold. He was the handsomest, and I soon thought also the most graceful being I had ever seen. His complexion was of a rich mellow indescribable olive tint, and his hair a glossy black; his teeth were regular and of the whitest ivory, and the glance of his eye was keen at times, but generally soft and lustrous. With the tarboosh upon his head which he seemed to wear uneasily, he reclined, rather than sat upon the opposite side of the divân, while his hand played in unconscious familiarity with the hilt of his yataghan. He looked like one who would be 'Steel amid the din of arms, and wax when with the fair.'</small>\n\nIn this meeting, Said Bey had attempted to dissuade Lynch of his plans to travel to the Dead Sea, with Aqil remarking that the Bedouin of the Ghor (Jordan Valley) would \"eat them up\". Lynch's reply was that \"they would find us difficult of digestion,\" but he suggested that as Aqil seemed to hold influence with these tribes, he would be prepared to pay him to make the trip a more peaceable one.\n\nAfter the meeting ended, Lynch pursued Aqil to speak with him alone. He showed him his sword and revolver, which Aqil examined and declared to be the \"Devil's invention\". Lynch described the weaponry at the disposal of his men and asked Aqil if he thought it sufficient to make the journey to the Jordan, and Aqil replied that, \"You will, if anyone can.\" Lynch later secured Aqil's accompaniment on the trip to the Dead Sea, through the intervention of an ex-Sharif of Mecca, describing the latter as \"our counsellor, sagacious and prudent,\" and Aqil as, \"the bold warrior and the admirable scout.\" Aqil and his Beni Sakhr allies quashed a party of 'Adwan Bedouin tribesmen when they attempted to rob Lynch's party. Lynch's record of Aqil's feat made him well known in Europe.\n\nAqil's irregulars attracted the membership of local individuals and small clans. Along with his alliance with the two powerful tribes of the region, the Beni Sakhr and the Anizzah, Aqil's autonomy in the Galilee was further strengthened, although he was nominally subordinate to the Ottoman authorities. He based himself in the Zaydani fortress of I'billin, a mixed Muslim-Christian village between Acre and Nazareth that was previously fortified by the family of Zahir al-Umar. By 1852, Aqil ceased residing in I'billin, preferring the traditional Bedouin lifestyle, dwelling in encampments and among his livestock. At this point, he ruled the area between Shefa-'Amr to Baysan. He and his Hanadi tribesmen characteristically dressed in brown-striped robes.\n\nIn 1852, he was commissioned by the Ottoman authorities to prevent the spread of a Druze rebellion from Hauran to northern Palestine. He successfully satisfied this request, aided by his Bedouin allies. Among his assignments during the rebellion was the protection from Bedouin raiders of a supply route which the Ottomans used to send ammunition to their troops in Hauran. Aqil and his men accomplished the task successfully.\n\nDespite his successes during the Druze revolt, the authorities, with whom he always had a tense relationship, grew wary of his strength and subsequently arrested him in a nighttime raid. He was sent to Istanbul by sea and from there he was sent to serve a prison sentence at the Widin fortress on the Danube River. Aqil was apparently loaned some money from the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, who had accompanied him on the ship ride to Istanbul, and Aqil used those funds to purchase a fake passport. With the passport and a disguise, he and an Albanian inmate named Hasan Agha escaped Widin in 1854 and reached Salonica. From there, Aqil departed to Anatolia and then Aleppo. Aqil resumed his Bedouin lifestyle of raiding and nomadic dwelling.\n\nAt the time of Aqil's escape, the Ottomans were engaged in the Crimean War with the Russian Empire, which left a domestic security void in its provinces due to the large number of provincial troops deployed to Crimea. To restore security in the Galilee, Aqil was reassigned to his powerful post in the region in 1855. On his return to Palestine, Aqil's Hanadi tribesmen abandoned their conscription orders to serve with the Ottoman Army in the Crimean War and instead returned to Aqil's service. Aqil was once again charged with protecting the routes of rural Palestine and occasionally Transjordan. He was once commissioned to collect taxes from Karak.\n\nIn Aqil's absence, a garrison of Kurdish irregulars based in Damascus had been left in charge of security in the Galilee. They were commanded by Shamdin Agha, but their employment was terminated by Aqil in 1855. Meanwhile, scores of Bedouin tribesmen from Faiyum with kinship ties to Aqil's tribal irregulars had migrated to the Levant as a result of their suppression by Sa'id Pasha of Egypt. Aqil welcomed their membership into his tribal band and their numbers subsequently swelled. He consecrated his relationship with the new arrivals by marrying a daughter of one of their \"sheikhs\". In May 1856, he defeated the Abd al-Hadi clan of Arraba in a major clash that ended encroachments by the Abd al-Hadis on Aqil's territory.\n\nIn 1857, the Beirut-based governor of Sidon Eyalet agreed to Shamdin's request to eliminate Aqil, who, to the consternation of the Ottoman authorities, was ruling the Galilee autonomously by that time. Shamdin, who sought vengeance against Aqil for terminating his service in Galilee, had complained to the Sidon governor that Aqil was committing treachery by collaborating with the Bedouin tribes against Ottoman authority. The Ottomans, whose dependence on Aqil had decreased with the end of the Crimean War in 1856, found in Shamdin's request a convenient way to end Aqil's growing autonomy. When Aqil visited Beirut to pay his respects to the governor of Sidon, he traveled with \"the air of a sultan\", according to the American missionary Henry H. Jessup, bringing with him a large and heavily armed Bedouin entourage.\n\nShamdin's forces, amounting to 600–700 Kurdish irregulars, massed in Tiberias. They were commanded by Shamdin's sons Muhammad Sa'id and Hasan Agha. Curious at this deployment, Aqil had requested an explanation from the \"kaimakam\" of Acre, but received no response. Thus Aqil concluded that the deployment was part of a conspiracy to upend his rule. In response, Aqil assembled his entire force of irregulars, amounting to some 300–400 men, and marched towards Shamdin's troops. Other Arab tribes volunteered their service, but Aqil declined their participation.\n\nOn 30 March, the Kurdish irregulars confronted Aqil's irregulars and Bedouin allies at the Horns of Hattin, near the village of Hattin. For the most part, both sides were armed with swords and spears and to a lesser extent, rifles, rather than the modern weaponry at the Ottoman military's disposal. Initially, the battle was going in Shamdin's favor and a portion of Aqil's troops began to flee. However, Salih Agha, Aqil's brother, led his group in a surprise attack against the Kurds. As a result, Shamdin's forces were dealt a decisive blow and commander Hasan Agha was among the 150 fatalities of that battle.\n\nAqil's victory entrenched his rule over Galilee and afterward he established stronger relations with the Europeans. After Aqil's victory at Hattin, the Ottoman authorities distanced themselves from the incident in their correspondence with Aqil, but he accepted their explanations with a grain of salt. In September 1858, Aqil was residing in Nazareth and decided not to intervene and put a stop to tribal clashes in the Jezreel Valley.\n\nAqil had been previously courted by European powers to secure protection for their Christian and Jewish protégés. During the 1860 Mount Lebanon civil war, anti-Christian animosity spread to Damascus where Christians were massacred by Druze and Muslim mobs. It appeared that the violence would spread to Acre as well, but Aqil issued direct orders to Acre's Muslim residents not to bring harm to the city's Christians, stating he would \"chastise ... with his sword\" anyone who violated the orders. Aqil also protected the Christian community of Nazareth from harm as their coreligionists elsewhere in Ottoman Syria faced massacres. Part of this protection included warnings to local Bedouin tribes to refrain from assaulting the town and warnings to its Christian and Muslim residents to prepare themselves militarily in case of attack. Aqil maintained a close friendship with Tannous Qawwar, a prominent Greek Orthodox resident of the town.\n\nIn gratitude for protecting the Christians in Nazareth and Acre, Napoleon III of France presented Aqil a gun and the Legion of Honor medal in April 1861 aboard his French vessel docked at Haifa Bay. Edward, Prince of Wales (later King of the United Kingdom) personally visited Aqil two years later to show his appreciation. Aqil offered Edward four Arabian horses, but Edward politely declined. As a token of his appreciation, Edward gave Aqil a revolver.\n\nHis protection of the local Christians and his reputed Algerian origins drew comparisons with Abd al-Qader al-Jaza'iri, the exiled Algerian rebel who saved many Christians from harm during the 1860 riots in Damascus, and with whom Aqil developed ties. Aqil realized that European protection would strengthen his position towards the Ottoman rulers. After 1860, he courted the French, once sending a tiger as a present to \"his Emperor\" through the French consul in Beirut. According to Finn, Aqil was under special \"French consideration\".\n\nThe Ottoman imperial government adopted its Tanzimat modernization reforms in 1862 and originally entrusted Aqil with enforcing the new law of the land in northern Palestine. Part of these measures were stronger efforts to suppress the Bedouin tribes and decisively end their raiding activities. Aqil was given orders to prevent them from setting up camps in the cultivated lands of Galilee and forbade the collection of \"khuwwa\" tolls from the local inhabitants. Aqil resigned from his post when he was informed that as part of his new assignment he and his men were required to don Ottoman uniforms. He objected to the requirement, insisting that as Bedouin, they were not accustomed to wearing uniforms. He was replaced by one of his Hawwara tribesmen, but Aqil compelled his successor to resign as well. Shortly after his resignation, the requirement of uniforms was canceled and Aqil resumed his assignment.\n\nAqil's closeness with the Europeans disturbed the Ottomans. His relations with the \"kaimakam\" of Acre, who in 1863 was Hasan Effendi, were also deteriorating. Since his return to Palestine in 1854, he avoided setting foot in the city, instead assigning a resident representative who engaged the \"kaimakam\" on his behalf. Hasan Effendi lodged complaints to the provincial governor in Beirut, Kapuli Pasha, about the misconduct of Aqil's men who extorted the local peasantry. Indeed, Aqil's protection was generally limited to those who could pay for his services or otherwise benefit his interests, including merchants, travelers, monks, pilgrims, Christians and Jews.\n\nThe Tanzimat proved unpopular with large segments of the population and a Bedouin revolt broke out, with Transjordanian tribes launching raids against Tiberias and its countryside in the summer of 1863. Aqil was unable to stop the raids, and may have played a role in the revolt. In response, the Ottomans dispatched a 2,000-strong, artillery-backed force from Damascus and Acre to Tiberias. The presence of artillery caused the Transjordanian tribes to retreat. Aqil viewed this deployment as an attack on his jurisdiction and issued his resignation in protest, all the while hoping Kapuli Pasha would back down and reject his resignation. To that end, he had Jewish notables from Tiberias and the French consul of Beirut lobby on his behalf, but without success, as Kapuli Pasha, content to see the elimination of a local power such as Aqil, accepted his resignation.\n\nAfter resigning, Aqil left Galilee for Tell el-Hesi in the region of Gaza. Around this time, Aqil married off a daughter of his to the leading Bedouin \"sheikh\" of the area, Rabbah al-Wahaidi. Bedouin raiding, now with the participation of the smaller tribes of Galilee, resumed not long after Aqil's resignation and concerns by the local merchants and European consuls were voiced to Kapuli Pasha due to the incoming harvest season for cotton and grain from Galilee and Hauran. Hasan Effendi sought to stem the tide of looting by attempting to play one Bedouin tribe off of the other. Kapuli Pasha was doubtful of this policy's effectiveness and strove to use military force instead. He personally led a contingent of troops in Galilee and ensured a peaceful harvest through the end of 1863. However, Kapuli Pasha determined that he could not keep a large, permanent military contingent in Galilee and decided to reinstate Aqil to his former position after lobbying from the British consul of Haifa.\n\nKapuli Pasha's successor, Kurshid Pasha, resumed the anti-Bedouin operations in Galilee in 1864 and sought to establish in the eastern Galilee four heavily armed forts as a bulwark against further raiding. Aqil entered into a conflict with the governor of Nablus and member of the Abd al-Hadi family, who tried to arrest Aqil. Kurshid Pasha dismissed Aqil by the end of the year. Fearing his arrest or death in light of the Ottomans' subsequent deployment of 200 Kurdish irregulars to Tiberias and the presence of military forces from Acre and Beirut in western Galilee, Aqil fled to Salt in the Balqa area of Transjordan.\n\nAqil later moved to Egypt. Abd al-Qadir al-Jaza'iri and Isma'il Pasha lobbied the Ottoman government on Aqil's behalf and he was given permission to return to Galilee in 1866. He subsequently inhabited the area of Mount Tabor. Despite his return and the reinstatement of a government salary, he was not able to restore his semi-autonomous authority in the region. In late 1869 he was awarded a medal of honor from the Habsburg dynasty of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nAqil died in 1870, although his death was erroneously recorded by R. A. Stewart Macalister to have occurred in 1867. According to Macalister, Aqil died in the vicinity of Shefa-'Amr. He was buried in I'billin, his previous Galilee headquarters. As of the early 1980s, descendants of Aqil still inhabited I'billin.\n\nAqil's son Quwaytin succeeded him as the chief of the Hanadi tribesmen who continued to inhabit the Galilee and its vicinity. In the late 19th century, Quwaytin's tribe had some 900 members and was based in the northern Jordan Valley. Quwaytin donned the honor cross medallions given to his father by various European governments. However, Hanadi influence and strength in the region diminished under Quwaytin and was gradually suppressed by various Ottoman actors, eventually reducing the Hanadi to an ineffectual tribe. Quwaytin's son and successor Rida also entered into Ottoman service and held the title of \"agha\" like Aqil. In the early 20th century, Rida Agha held the equivalent rank of a lieutenant and served as commander of police in the Balqa Sanjak in Transjordan.\n\nFor nearly two decades Aqil had been a major local power in northern Palestine. He asserted to other tribal \"sheikhs\" that the land they roamed in belonged to the Arabs and that one day they would take it back from the Turkish Ottoman \"conquerors\". According to Finn, Aqil may have ultimately envisioned forming an Arab confederation in the southern Levant independent of the Ottomans and backed by France. However, despite these perceived intentions, Aqil ruled under the auspices of the Ottoman authorities, was paid by them, and was at least partially dependent upon their support. His ties with France and Europe contributed to his power, but he lacked the necessary support from these countries to pursue any desire of independence that he had. Aqil's death marked the removal of \"the last obstacle to the implementation of full centralized Ottoman rule\" in northern Palestine, according to historian Mahmoud Yazbak. When full Ottoman centralization in the Galilee was realized, local powers permanently lost their influence over the region's development. That power was instead passed on to wealthy businessmen from Haifa and Beirut, ultimately leaving the Sursock family of Beirut as the new \"masters\" of the Galilee, according to anthropologist Alexander Schölch.\n\nOne of the factors Schölch attributes to Aqil's failure to secure an autonomous rule similar to that of the Arab \"sheikh\" Zahir al-Umar was Aqil's refusal to accept a sedentary life. While I'billin frequently functioned as a headquarters of sorts for Aqil, he did not take up permanent residence there, or anywhere. Instead it served as a symbol of his authority in the Galilee. Aqil was adamantly a Bedouin and once remarked to William Lynch that it would be a \"disgrace\" to \"till the ground like a \"fellah\"\". The nomadic, marauding lifestyle of Aqil ran counter to the modernization efforts of the Ottomans, which strongly encouraged settlement of the land and centralization. These processes were eventually embraced by the peasantry and the urban notables, but resisted by the Bedouin tribes whose traditional livelihoods were at risk.\n\nSchölch asserts that Aqil contributed little to the socio-economic development of Palestine, and was not a \"benefactor of the peasants\". However, Aqil is described in a mostly positive light by modern-day sources and in local tradition. In the Arab nationalist political atmosphere that followed the Ottoman Empire's fall in 1917, Aqil's Arab identity and his struggles against the Ottomans contributed to the prevailing positive commemoration of his life. Palestinian Christians in particular remember him fondly for protecting Christians during his rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "17360263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17360263", "title": "Bijay Kumar Gachhadar", "text": "Bijay Kumar Gachhadar\n\nBijaya Kumar Gachhadar () is a Nepalese politician and veteran leader of the Nepali Congress. He was deputy prime minister of Nepal under the government of PM KP Oli .\n\nIn April 2008, he won the Constituent Assembly election, 2013 with 23769 votes. Gachhadar was previously in the Madhesi people forum and Nepali Congress (Democratic), and was Minister of Water Resources. Gachhadar was formally expelled from the Nepali Congress in March 2008, by that time he had already joined PRF. He was subsequently appointed as Minister and sworn in on August 22, 2008.\n\nHe contributed to establish Madhav Kumar Nepal's administration, and on June 4, 2009 he was appointed as the deputy prime minister of the cabinet.\n\nAgain as per the poll in the cabinet, he was again appointed as the deputy prime minister and Ministry of Home Affair of the government led by Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai. On 16 Oct 2017 his party Nepal Democratic Forum merged with Nepali Congress. Gachhadar returns to his old party after 11 years.\n"}
{"id": "11387551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11387551", "title": "Brian Doyle (baseball)", "text": "Brian Doyle (baseball)\n\nBrian Reed Doyle (born January 26, 1954 in Glasgow, Kentucky) is a former Major League Baseball infielder who played for the New York Yankees and Oakland A's. He played primarily as a second baseman. Although a reserve for most of his career, Doyle starred in the 1978 World Series for the World Champion Yankees that beat the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nDoyle was drafted by the Texas Rangers in the 1972 amateur draft. Before playing a game for the Rangers he was traded to the Yankees along with Greg Pryor in exchange for Sandy Alomar. Doyle joined the Yankees in 1978. He played parts of three seasons for the Yankees as a reserve infielder through 1980.\n\nHowever, when Willie Randolph was injured for the 1978 World Series, Doyle filled in as the Yankee second baseman. In six World Series games, he batted .438 with seven hits in 16 at bats, one double, four runs scored and two runs batted ins, leading the World Series in batting average while helping the Yankees to their second straight World Series victory.\n\nAfter the end of the 1980 season, Doyle was selected by the Oakland Athletics in the Rule 5 draft. He played for the Athletics in 1981, his last season in the Major Leagues. Doyle played 110 games in his career,\n\nHis brother, Denny, also played in the major leagues. \n\nHis twin brother, Blake, played only in the minor leagues before becoming a major league coach. \n\nIn 1978, Brian and his brothers founded Doyle Baseball, a baseball school.\n\nIn the 1990s, Doyle was diagnosed with leukemia, and was later on diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "48812018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48812018", "title": "Charbel Georges Merhi", "text": "Charbel Georges Merhi\n\nCharbel Georges Merhi, MLM (born on 12 October 1937 in Edde, Lebanon) is a retired eparch of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of San Charbel in Buenos Aires.\n\nOn August 29, 1964 Merhi was ordained priest and became Chaplain of the MLM. His appointment as first bishop of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of San Charbel in Buenos Aires took place on 5 October 1990. Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, Nasrallah Pierre Sfeir consecrated him bishop on 2 December 1990. His co-consecrators were Bishop Georges Abi-Saber, OLM, from Canada and Roland Aboujaoudé, auxiliary bishop of Antioch. Merhi was installed as eparchy on 17 March 1991. As a participant in the Special Assembly of the Synod of Bishops for the Middle East, in October 2010, he stressed the need for peace between Christians and Muslims, because, as he pointed out, they are all children of Abraham.\n\nOn April 17, 2013 Pope Francis accepted his age-related resignation.\n\n"}
{"id": "43804124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43804124", "title": "Charles Wesley Powell", "text": "Charles Wesley Powell\n\nCharles Wesley Powell (May 5, 1854 – August 18, 1927) was an American hobbyist turned horticulturist specializing in the study of orchids (Orchidaceae). He is credited with providing scientists the first large-scale collection of orchid specimens found in Panama. In the early 1900s, he became internationally famous for his new discoveries and valuable contributions to orchidology by gathering, \"rediscovering\", cultivating, preserving, documenting, and submitting-for-study a diverse assortment of hundreds of distinct specimens: yielding many new to science species.\n\nPowell's specimen records (also known as herbarium specimens) and his Panama garden were studied by researchers at the Royal Botanical Gardens, the Berlin Botanical Garden, the Orchid Herbarium of Oakes Ames at Harvard University, the National Museum of Natural History at the Smithsonian Institution, and the Missouri Botanical Garden (MBG). Dozens of orchid species were named in his honor. In 1922, German botanist Rudolf Schlechter published his 95-page \"Orchidaceae Powellianae Panamenses\" (Panama orchid collections by C. Powell): principally on the basis of\nPowell's efforts. Powell's work remains relevant not only because his records document valuable scientific data, but they continue to provide material for study – many of his digitized herbarium specimens are freely available online via virtual herbaria.\n\nIn 1926, Powell donated his world-class orchid garden (orchidarium) to the renowned MBG of St. Louis, Missouri. Under Powell's direction, a Tropical Station was created by the MBG in Balboa, Panama; 7,000 plants from Powell's orchid garden populated the satellite operation. For the MBG, a snowball effect occurred in the tropics; orchid collecting began there in earnest and over the next 13 years, orchids from its Tropical Station would appreciably augment the collection of the parent garden in St. Louis. \"Today, the Missouri Botanical Garden’s orchid collection represents one of the largest and finest in the United States.\"\n\nKnown to orchid enthusiasts as C. W. Powell, he was born Charles Lesslie Pullen in Richmond, Virginia, to Benjamin King Pullen Sr. and Minerva \"Minnie\" Anner (née Smith) Pullen. He was the first-born of eight children. In a letter to Minnie dated July 29, 1854, from Richmond, Ben Pullen writes about his son: \n\nIn 1860, 6 year old Lesslie and his family moved, by train, southwest to Memphis, Tennessee, for the opening of his father's china store. Shortly thereafter, Lesslie was uprooted again when his family relocated south for several years. There they struggled to survive on a cousin’s farm near Sardis, Mississippi, during the Union Army's occupation of Memphis in the American Civil War and Ben Pullen Sr.'s service as a Confederate Army officer. Perhaps this experience was Lesslie's introduction to agriculture.\n\nAfter the War, the Pullens moved back to Memphis. In 1871, hard times in the South forced Lesslie’s father to advertise his store's closing. By the mid-1870s, Ben Pullen Sr. was a bookkeeper for the State National Bank and Lesslie, now calling himself Charles, was a collector for the bank.\n\nIn 1877 he married Adelaide \"Addie\" Belle Prince (1858-1901), the daughter of a Mississippi antebellum cotton planter. In 1879, the couple's first child, Charles Lesslie was born (living only a few months). Six more children would follow: Bessie, an unnamed infant, David (died young), Adelaide \"Addie\", Minerva \"Minnie\", and Margaret. Bessie was born in 1880, and the couple's latter three daughters were born in 1887, 1891, and 1898 respectively.\n\nThe Epidemic hit Memphis in 1878 claiming, among thousands, the life of Pullen’s mother.\nIn the early 1880s, Pullen was appointed to serve Memphis in several leadership positions. Detail oriented, well-read, and popular, he served as Secretary of the Legislative Council of Memphis; Secretary of the Fire and Police Commissioners Board; and Clerk for the Supervisors of Public Works, earning $100 per month. Documenting the day-to-day business of a struggling city, he proved valuable to the citizens who put him in office. \"Memphis began to recover quickly after [the Yellow Fever Epidemic of] 1878. Its artesian water supply was discovered and turned into one of the purest water supplies in the nation in the 1880s. Its charter was restored. Its sanitation and sewer systems became models for other cities.\" In 1885 he bought part-interest in a weekly paper \"The Sunday Times\" and was its business manager. He was not only a bookkeeper, but also a book-lover; Pullen collected rare books. His interests went beyond the literary world, however. He conducted exhaustive research on his Pullen and Smith genealogy. Relentless in his pursuit of ancestral names and important dates, he advertised for information throughout New England.\n\nLegal troubles plagued the Pullen family in 1890. By 1894, Pullen, his father, two brothers, a sister, and their families had moved south, settling in Houma and New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1895 he was bookkeeping for the Mutual Insurance Company in New Orleans, and his younger brother, Benjamin K. Pullen Jr., was a travel agent there.\nIn the 1900 U.S. Census, Pullen, his wife, and 4 daughters are found living in New Orleans. His father died in July of that year; his wife died shortly thereafter in February 1901. In 1902, Pullen's eldest daughter, Bessie, married Ernest Johnson and moved to Texas. His younger girls would be cared for by an aunt living in Central America. His daughter Minnie would marry Texan Joseph Ross, a railroad superintendent, and spend time in Guatemala where their second son was born in 1913. Addie married Charles Foster who worked throughout Central America and Jamaica. About his life in New Orleans and his budding interest in flowers he would say: \"I had a little greenhouse in New Orleans before I went to the Canal Zone.\"\n\nSome combination of events prompted a relatively unconnected Charles L. Pullen to move south to Panama. Exactly when and why he reinvented himself as Charles Wesley Powell is a mystery. In a 1928 biography of Powell, some elements of his pre-Panama days are not supported by facts: leading one to wonder why and by whom (probably Powell, for reasons best known by himself) the details of his life in the U. S. were altered. From 1907–1927 he would support himself by working in various positions in a Canal Zone dispensary (basic medical facility) or hospital. With a salary of $60 per month, he started out dispensing quinine (antimalarial drug) at a labor camp in old Gatun (now covered by 80 feet of rock and earth under Gatun Dam). It is not surprising he would be hired for a position in which precise record keeping was important. To better communicate with patients, he studied Spanish. Soon he was certified as a nurse. The front side of his employment record; immigration records in 1913 and 1926 (including addresses in the U.S. of daughter Bessie Johnson and the MBG); and the 1920 U.S. Census (including married daughter Addie in his household) find him using variations of the name Charles Wesley Powell.\n\"In 1908 Powell transferred to Porto Bello [on the Caribbean Sea] as a dispensary assistant and took up fishing as a hobby, using a row-boat. Early 1910 finds Powell working in a dispensary in [old] Gorgona (now submerged 80 feet below the surface of Gatun Lake) and fishing in Panama Bay. The local fishermen called him 'Pescadore Grande' (great fisherman). Switching his fishing from Panama Bay to Gatun Lake soon followed.\"\n\nThe immense Gatun Lake, a part of the Panama Canal, was created when the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers dammed the Rio Chagres in the early 1900s. About 1912, Powell and his botanist friend Abel A. Hunter (1877-1935), bought a motor boat for fishing in the newly formed lake. \"The waters had risen until they presented a surface through which the upper portions of thousands of tall trees protruded. Their craft cut paths between treetops. Hunter exclaimed, 'Look, Powell–orchids! Oodles of orchids! Treefuls of orchids! Let's get some of 'em.'\" \"The men knew the dove orchids would soon be submerged by the rising waters of the Chagres River. \n'We were rewarded by a boat-load of the 'El Spirito Santo' or Holy Ghost Orchid.' The orchids were brought back to Gorgona and disseminated over the Canal Zone, the United States, and Europe. Soon, the level of the Lake was encroaching on Gorgona, and necessitated a transferring of the workers to Balboa [Pacific side].\"\n\n\"I can remember my first orchid, I was just looking over the country one Sunday, about 18 months after I got down there when I saw it way up near the top of a tall tree. 'You're certainly a beauty,' I said. 'I must have you.' While I was standing there wondering how on earth to climb that tree a bare-footed Indian came along. 'I'll give you 25 cents gold to get that flower,' I said. The Indian used the vines to swing to the tree [like Tarzan] and cut off the orchid.\" \"For about five years, I suppose, I would pull the orchids apart and study them, but never keep the plants.\" \"He studied the orchid intelligently: learning, throughout the years about orchids from books, worldwide correspondence, and visitors.\" About the books he remarked: \"I couldn't read a French or German newspaper, but with a little Latin I could make out the technical works.\" In February 1916, Powell was pondering his many memorable orchid-related experiences: echoing in his mind, no doubt, were those at Gatun Lake. A watershed moment occurred; \"he lost no time starting an orchid garden.\" \"Powell started his collection on his front porch. When that got so packed with plants he couldn't move, he started an annex by building a tier of shelves on the rear wall of his house.\" \"It wasn't long until both were overflowing and he had to construct a latticed roof and screened-in, vine-clad, wire mesh walls.\" \"The establishing of the garden was actuated by the act of Mrs. A. H. Bryan presenting Mr. Powell with about a thousand plants, and a further donation by Charles H. Beetham.\" There was nothing published on growing orchids outdoors; Powell \"pioneered\" the techniques.\n\nReferences to the power and allure of the wild orchid are peppered throughout the world's cultural, historical, and contemporary beliefs. As far back as the fifth century BC, the Chinese philosopher Confucius used wild orchids as symbolism to deepen the meaning of his poems; \"he compared the virtuous man to an orchid. Echoing this thought, Chinese artists sometimes placed orchids in their work to evoke the Confucian qualities of humility, integrity, refinement—in fact, all the virtues of a perfectly cultured gentleman and scholar.\" \"The ancient Greeks associated it with virility, and the Aztecs were said to drink a mixture of the vanilla orchid and chocolate to give them power and strength.\" To others, \"orchids possess a sensual, quasi-mystical aura: thought of as sexual, wild, rare creatures.\" In the 1939 book \"The Orchid Hunters\", Norman MacDonald wrote: \"For when a man falls in love with orchids, he'll do anything to possess the one he wants. It's like chasing a green-eyed woman [being consumed by desire] or taking cocaine. A sort of madness...\" In a 2002 \"NOVA\" interview, Susan Orlean (Author, \"The Orchid Thief\", non-fiction) revealed her research findings: \"Nothing in science can account for the way people feel about orchids. Orchids arouse passion more than romance. They are the sexiest flowers on Earth.\"\nAnd in 2006, an article about \"Fanatical collectors driving a £6 billion black market of 'trophy' specimens\" was published in \"The Telegraph.\" In this article, Eric Hansen (Author, \"Orchid Fever\", non-fiction) recalls a flower-grower telling him: 'You can get off alcohol, drugs, women, food and cars, but once you're hooked on orchids you're finished. You never get off orchids. Never.'\"\n\nSpecifically, the prevailing belief about orchids during Powell's lifetime was described thusly: \"There is one plant, which stands so far above all the rest for unique beauty and grandeur that it is universally regarded as the aristocrat of the floral kingdom, namely, the orchid. The Central American orchids, above all others in North or South America, are regarded as furnishing the climax [occupying the highest point] and should be called the 'aristocrat of the aristocrats.'\"\n\nFalling under the wild orchid's powerful spell, Powell fit the profile of a classic orchid hunter with one exception–he was not interested in selling his treasures–he wanted to collect them. Some biographical sources indicate Powell collected orchids beginning with his arrival in Panama in 1907; however, it seems more likely his collecting began after he settled in Balboa. At first he collected locally; ultimately, his objective was to \"assemble a complete collection of Panama species.\" \"Powell and Hunter went on collecting trips in the Chiriquí region in 1918, 1920, and 1922; Powell went there without Hunter in 1924. Powell's last collecting trip was to the Veraguas Province in March, 1925.\" In 1931, George T. Moore, director of the MBG wrote: \"The perils and experiences of the early orchid hunters were as thrilling and romantic as those of any arctic explorer.\" About the typical orchid hunter, Susan Orlean had this to say: \"Orchid hunting hasn't really changed over the last 200 years and orchid hunters haven't really changed. You have to be brave; you have to be somewhat foolish.\"\n\nGeorge Harry Pring (see below) elaborated on collecting bucket orchids: \"Removing a clump of these plants may be compared with disturbing a hornet's nest, but, according to Mr. Powell, who had experienced both adventures, the hornets are easier to combat than the thousands of small stinging ants.\" Pring then told of a fourth collection technique used by Powell and Hunter; one Pring himself used. \"In many instances, to dislodge the epiphyte [an \"air plant\", \"growing non-parasitically\", sometimes 40–50 feet from the ground] without climbing the tree, it is necessary to cut a sapling with a forked-top as long as the distance up to where it clings. Its roots in some cases are three to four feet long, and great dexterity is required to dislodge it as to not cause injury. During this operation, clouds of dust, granulated bark and moss which rain down from above almost blind the collector.\" \"These men got many fine specimens through this method.\"\n\nAs his garden expanded over the next few years, Powell's orchid documentation and explorations took a new path. All the while working full-time in the dispensary, the care, documenting, and pursuit of his beloved orchids occupied most of his spare time—quite an accomplishment. \"Although 193 [now 215] of Powell’s specimens were recorded without dates; the first dated records of collections began in 1915. In early 1918, realizing that many of his plants were not described in his books, he made contact with R. Allen Rolfe at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England.\" A package \"C. W. P.\" (Powell) sent Rolfe was acknowledged by the latter via \"The Orchid Review\" (May 1918): \"The package duly arrived, but was badly broken and the contents missing. Perhaps further materials can be sent. In practice we find the most successful method is to press small specimens in a fold of blotting paper and enclose in an ordinary letter.\" On a February 12, 1919 specimen (\"Mormodes powellii\" Schltr.) sent to Rolfe, Powell remarked: \"Metallic bees nearly ate it up before I could cut it.\"\n\n\nTransitioning from hobbyist to horticulturist, Powell needed a way to forward his finds to researchers and preserve them for future reference. He studied the standardized method for specimen preservation and storage. Specimens were dried by extracting moisture in a device called a plant press; however in one instance he noted: \"Live flower mashed flat with finger.\" Although he was initially cautioned against it, he added artificial heat (an electric light bulb or electric iron) which aided in the quality of the results in the tropics. In a letter to Rolfe, Powell asks: \"It [the drying] was done over an Electric Light Bulb while lighted up. I have done a lot of experimenting in the drying of flowers, both with stove and sun heat, but this seems to have been the most successful. How is it for a Specimen?\" The pressed plant could then be affixed to a mounting sheet (11 X 17 inch paper). Label data (essential documentary information) was added. Once label data was added to the mounting sheet, it was ready for shipping. The mounting sheet (specimen) became a candidate for long-term storage in a repository (like the Harvard University Herbaria). Once accepted, the mounting sheet would then be known as a herbarium specimen. At first he sent just the preserved flowers, but soon he was asked to send preserved plants that included the roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and seeds. Powell painstakingly crafted his mounting sheets; he enhanced them with fieldnotes, illustrations, flower cutouts, and photographs. His original sheets would stand on their own as works of art; over time they have evolved into beautiful, remarkably detailed documents.\n\nMany of Powell's earliest specimens–most now available as digitized images–are found in the herbarium at Kew; some records there include letters from Powell to Rolfe.\nOver 400 distinct examples of Powell's collection records, many with images of his herbarium specimens, are found in a virtual herbarium at the Harvard University Herbaria and Libraries. Tropicos (maintained by the MBG), The Swedish Museum of Natural History, and other repositories (to a lesser extent) provide additional sources for online viewing of herbarium specimens.\n\nFor No. 1 \"Oncidium oerstedii\" with photographs.\n\nFor No. 20 \"Cyncnoches guttulatum\" with photos, letter, sprays. Curated at Kew Royal Botanic Gardens, England.\n\nFor his spider orchid (\"Brassia caudata\") with cutout.\n\nFor his \"Prosthechea fragrans\" (Sw.) W.E. Higgins showing the evolution of a herbarium specimen.\n\nPowell's signature, CWP. (CW is overlapping), is found in the lower right.\n\n\"Epidendrum fragrans\" enhanced with Powell's flower-only drawing\n\nIn July 1918, Powell began to send Rolfe a series of herbarium specimens. It took roughly 8 months for a portion (29) to be identified, communication slowed; Rolfe was in ill health and died before he had a chance to [fully] study Powell’s collection. Rolfe's death was a great disappointment to Powell; he had derived much encouragement and help from Rolfe's kindly cooperation and guidance.\"\n\nAccustomed to dogged pursuit in genealogy research, Powell pressed on. He realized the need to \"systematically\" document the \"Orchids of Panama\" for study. He was energized by the thrill of the hunt. His fellow researchers began to take notice. Powell was persistent, he infused enthusiasm in his dealings, and he instilled in his fellow researchers the confidence that—he had something to offer in the confusing world of the Orchidaceae. \"Mr. Powell's enthusiasm for these plants has caused him to be locally termed 'the Orchid Man' ('Parasita Grande'), and his garden is one of the show places in Balboa to both the botanist and tourist.\" Perhaps while acting as tour guide, the idea sprouted—to someday donate his garden; little did he know how much joy and peaceful beauty his expanding orchid collection would one day bring to visitors of a botanical garden away. The reputation of Powell's Horticultural Garden, Balboa, Canal Zone began to grow on a global scale.\n\n\"Orchids are surprisingly difficult to see in the wild; the majority being epiphytic, growing high in the canopy on trunks, branches or in crotches out of sight.\" In Powell's garden they were at eye-level—a sight to behold. \"A rustic gate gives entrance to this miniature paradise. The gate posts are formed of dead jungle trees covered with Orchids. The walks, bordered with beautiful ferns and lilies, lead between Orchid-covered dead trees that are a riot of colour.\" \"Much painstaking labor has converted it into a miniature jungle—plus all the beauty and minus all the dangers of a real jungle. There are few thrills equal to seeing in the early morning a host of these beautiful flowers that have suddenly burst in full blossom, nodding a merry good morning.\"\n\nSix images are hosted in an online exhibit by Missouri Digital Heritage: contributions by Missouri Botanical Garden.\nThumbnail image of Powell captured in 1923, examining a night-blooming cereus from his garden: hosted by the Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation.\n\nThe relationships between the orchid experts of the time were complicated; mutual respect, admiration, cooperation and financial support of each other were interwoven with intense competition, rivalry, and double-dealing. Regarding multi-country cooperation via plant exchanges, in 1938, the Missouri Botanical Garden Bulletin reported: \"A system of exchange of plants with other countries, begun by Mr. Powell, had been discontinued for some years. During the year it was re-established and exchanges were made with nine countries.\"\nBeginning in 1919, thanks to a tip from a correspondent in Costa Rica, German botanist, taxonomist, and author Rudolf Schlechter (curator of the herbarium at the Berlin Botanical Garden) began corresponding with and receiving numerous duplicate specimens (ones originally sent to Rolfe) from Powell. \"Schlechter immediately recognized the importance of the plant collection, and encouraged Mr. Powell in every way to send in further specimens.\" \"Schlechter took up the taxonomy (classification) of Panamanian orchids in August, 1920.\" \"An astonishing number of plants proved to be entirely new to science (not less than 75).\" Schlechter added: \"Just as important as the new species is the rediscovery of a whole series of species, having originally been discovered by Warszewicz, but never found again.\" \"Schlechter wrote to Powell: 'Your exploration of the orchid flora of Panama is one of the most important facts in orchidology during the later years.'\" Schlechter named dozens of species in Powell's honor (see Schlechter's author abbreviation, Schltr., in \"Legacy\" below). Waiting until after Rolfe's death (1921), in 1922, Schlechter published his 95-page \"Orchidaceae Powellianae Panamenses\" (collections by C. Powell) part of which transcribes as follows: \"It is sure that no one has made such a contribution to our knowledge of these orchids as Mr. Powell through his 'exceedingly mighty collection,' which contains not only species with conspicuous flowers, but also those in which the size of the blooms scarcely exceeds that of a pin-head.\" \"We cannot thank Mr. Powell enough for this self-sacrificing research that he has undertaken in spite of his age. For the orchidology of Panama he has done more than any of his predecessors.\" Sadly, most of Schlechter's specimens were destroyed in 1943, during the bombing of Berlin, in the Second World War.\n\nIn 1922, Powell began relations with Harvard University’s Oakes Ames, a botanist, and the most eminent American orchid authority at the time. Due to intense competition with Schlechter, \"Ames went so far as to sign with Powell a formal contract in which the latter would collect orchids for him for U.S. $100 per month. From that point forward, Powell only sent Schlechter duplicate specimens. Ames, his wife Blanche, and daughter Pauline traveled to Central America in early 1923, partly to meet Powell and see his garden; after this visit, Ames received some of Powell’s specimens. Of these, 29 were new to science. Based on an orchid from Powell's garden, Blanche, recognized as an outstanding botanical illustrator, enriched one of her husband's specimens by painting this captivating watercolor. That same year, Ames praised the quality of Powell’s work: 'His indefatigable zeal is one of the joys in my contemplation of Central American orchidology. His specimens are often works of art.'\" Ames dedicated several orchid species to Powell and cited Powell's specimens throughout his \"Schedulae Orchidianae\" (1922-1930) publications. Today, the Economic Herbarium of Oakes Ames at Harvard University has a searchable specimen database which includes many of Powell's original works.\n\nIn September 1922, Powell sent a letter to Ames introducing \"my good friend\" . Lankester, a British coffee grower, naturalist, and orchidologist, was living in Cartago, Costa Rica, a country with great potential for new to science orchid species. Powell facilitated what would become a \"deep friendship between Lankester and Ames that lasted 25 years.\" Traveling to Costa Rica in 1925, Powell visited Lankester, who in turn traveled to Panama in 1927. \"I have just spent a fortnight with my fellow sufferer from orchiditis, CWP, + it was a very delightful time of talk and talk and then talk.\" Lankester's orchid garden transformed over time into the Lankester Botanical Gardens. Located outside of Cartago, Costa Rica, the garden is now operated by the University of Costa Rica as a research center and is open to tourists.\n\n\nIn the 1924 Annual Report to the Board of Regents of The Smithsonian Institution, Paul C. Standley reported about Powell: \"Years of experience, through which the best methods have been discovered, combined with the attention to details such as other collectors rarely attain, have enabled him to make specimens which are unsurpassed. Among the vines that cover the trellises in the Powell garden are various plants of Vanilla, of which there are two common species in Panama, V. \"planifolia\" with narrow leaves (see image above) and V. \"pompona\" with wide leaves.\"\n\nGeorge H. Pring, a horticulturist at the MBG, made many trips to remote locations in Central and South America. \"In 1923 Pring visited the Panama Canal Zone, where he spent six months, weeks of which were at Powell's garden talking orchids from 6 a.m. to 3 a.m.\" \"Powell, in turn, was overjoyed to entertain a man who knew orchids from the outside in.\" Pring presented Powell with rare plants gathered in the Andes and Powell reciprocated with 300 plants from his garden for the MBG. This association would prove mutually beneficial; back at the MBG, \"a great interest arose for Panama’s orchids.\" In 1926, Powell and Pring would be together again: this time in Missouri. \"They appeared to take up the conversation where they left off three years ago. Long botanical names crackled in their dialogue.\"\n\nKnowing the time would come when he could no longer care for the 7,000 plants (including cacti, palms, ferns, lilies, and roughly 500 orchid species) in his astonishing garden, \"On March 1, 1926, Powell, Pring, and George Moore (Director of the MBG-aka Shaw's Garden) met in Panama and finalized the details of a great gift—Powell generously presented the Missouri Botanical Garden with his world-wide-known collection of orchids.\" \"For the benefit of orchid growers throughout the world,\" the MBG's 1926 bulletin gives an accounting of some the orchids gifted by Powell. \"At age 72, Powell had one of the greatest private orchid collections in the world; his donation made the Shaw's Garden orchid collection the finest in the world.\"\n\n\"The MBG created a ‘tropical station’ at the foot of Ancon Hill (hill overlooking Panama City, Panama), on lands [] granted by the Canal Zone Government. Then Secretary of War and former Park Commissioner of St. Louis, Missouri, Dwight F. Davis, approved the MBG's application for this land grant.\" \"Powell's collection became the [nucleus of the] Panama Extension Station of the MBG; he was appointed its first director and a residence was built for him on the grounds.\" \"Powell’s collection marked the beginning of the Garden’s reputation in orchid horticulture.\" \"After Powell’s death there was a good deal of confusion regarding the care of the plants; they were neglected and many died. Pring and Hunter spent two months restocking the grounds. Hunter took over the direction of the Tropical Station and maintained this position until his own death in 1935. In 1939, the Tropical Station was transferred to the Canal Zone Government. During its almost 13 years of existence, the Tropical Station supplied the greenhouses in Saint Louis with a constant flow of living plants.\" \"Today, Ancon Hill is a popular jogging and hiking trek. All manner of vegetation and birds can be seen, including a large number of orchids (which are protected by CITES).\"\n\nOn August 30, 1926, Powell travelled from Panama to the United States on the , a Panama Railway Company steamship and the first ship to officially transit the Panama Canal in 1914. \"He met, sometimes for the first time, his 'Brothers in Science.' Visits to New York, Philadelphia and Washington preceded his arrival in St. Louis, Missouri. Everywhere he was greeted as an old friend by scientists and orchid enthusiasts. These knew him through a decade of learned correspondence and others had made pilgrimages to his famous garden for it is a mecca of the orchid world.\" After spending more than 10 years searching any possible habitat for orchids–from the lakes at sea-level, to the hillsides, and up into the higher elevations of mountainous Panama–he was lionized as \"The Canal Zone's exotic plant specialist.\"\n\nCharles W. Powell was awarded the Roosevelt Medal with two service bars (second bar awarded on March 1, 1913) for continuous distinguished civilian work as an employee of the Isthmian Canal Commission (or the Panama Railroad Company). Of roughly 50,000 workers, only 1,661 medalists earned the second bar.\n\nRetiring on October 10, 1926, Powell's service record in the Canal Zone's Sanitation department documents his annuity.\n\nLife in early 1900s Panama presented a unique opportunity for Powell to find his passion in orchids. The labor requirement for the construction of the Panama Canal provided him with a livelihood; and an outing on the newly created Gatun Lake awakened a desire to \"catch\" orchids instead of fish. Soon, he would become a man on a mission: a man with direction and purpose. Powell searched high and low for beautiful, diverse, rare and new-to-science orchids with great vigor. He risked life and limb to acquire his specimens. The worldwide correspondence, camaraderie, conversation and competition among like-minded orchid lovers suited his nature. Through his later life's love, Powell caught the world by surprise; he may have caught himself by surprise. Charles Wesley Powell's donation was the manifestation of his calling to serve mankind by contributing to the greater common good: a permanent legacy of his work. As a late bloomer, he made his mark with orchids.\n\n\"Desiderata\" (Latin: \"desired things\"):\n\"Charles Wesley Powell's health failed him at the very beginning of the peaceful and interesting years which he had planned. He died of heart disease, very suddenly, on August 18, 1927, at the age of 73.\" Three daughters survived him. He and his daughter, Addie (née Pullen) Foster (1887-1925), were buried in the Corozal American Cemetery and Memorial in Panama.\n\n\"Orchids are an ancient plant family that has evolved an amazing array of flower types, pollination mechanisms and complex interactions with animals and fungi. In the plant world, orchids reign supreme as about 10 percent of all plant species are orchids.\" \"The Orchid family (Orchidaceae) contains the largest number of plant species in the world - up to 30,000. Panama alone has about 1,100 known species.\" Powell submitted at least 496 distinct specimens; in 1926, 109 were reported as new to science.\n\n\"Orchids are a difficult and confusing taxonomic group. People who specialize in the Orchid family usually spend years naming different species based on DNA and morphology.\"\nA partial list of species or synonyms (and examples of common names) named in Powell's honor:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37784034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37784034", "title": "Charlotte Williams-Wynn (aristocrat)", "text": "Charlotte Williams-Wynn (aristocrat)\n\nCharlotte Williams-Wynn (\"née\" Grenville; c. 1754 – 29 September 1830) was a British aristocrat.\n\nWilliams-Wynn was born in Llanforda, Oswestry. She was the eldest child of the Prime Minister George Grenville and his wife Elizabeth, daughter of the Tory statesman Sir William Wyndham, 3rd Baronet, and she was related to both Prime Minister William Pitts through her paternal aunt Hester Grenville, who married Pitt the Elder (the 1st Earl of Chatham) and became mother of William Pitt the Younger. Her mother and father died in 1769 and 1770 respectively, and guardianship of their daughter Charlotte was assumed by George's elder brother, Richard Grenville-Temple, 2nd Earl Temple. In December 1771, she married Sir Watkin Williams-Wynn, 4th Baronet, and became known as Lady Williams-Wynn. The couple had eight children, six of whom survived to adulthood, including Watkin (who went on to be the 5th Baronet), Charles and Henry. Upon her husband's death, Lady Williams-Wynn became the sole administrator of his Welsh estates under the terms of his will, and functioned as such until her eldest son reached the age of majority.\n"}
{"id": "1721539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1721539", "title": "Chaviva Hošek", "text": "Chaviva Hošek\n\nChaviva Milada Hošek, ; (born 6 October 1946) is a Canadian academic, feminist and former politician.\n\nHošek was born in Chomutov, Czechoslovakia. Her mother was imprisoned in Auschwitz during World War II. The family initially moved to Israel but then emigrated to Montreal in 1952. She received her undergraduate degree from McGill University and earned a doctorate in English literature from Harvard in 1973.\n\nShe worked as a professor of English Literature at the University of Toronto for thirteen years, achieved tenured status and served on the University's governing council. In 1985 she was appointed co-chairman of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's National Economic Conference. In 1986 she resigned from the university and went to work for Gordon Capital Corp. as a pension consultant. An active feminist, she served as president of the National Action Committee on the Status of Women from 1984 to 1986. She later described her time at the NAC as \"the harshest political experience I ever had\", claiming that the group was polarized by internal divisions during this period. Hošek was named B'nai Brith Woman of the Year in 1984 and received the YWCA Woman of Distinction Award in 1986 for Community and Public Service.\n\nIn the 1987 Ontario election, Hošek won a seat in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as the Liberal Member of Provincial Parliament for the Toronto riding of Oakwood, defeating Ontario New Democratic Party incumbent Tony Grande by 1,331 votes. She was appointed to David Peterson's cabinet as Minister of Housing, and embarked on a program to expand social housing.\n\nIn the spring of 1989, Hošek was implicated in the Patti Starr affair. Starr, a close associate of Hošek, was a Liberal fundraiser who was head of the National Council of Jewish Women (Toronto Section) who misused her position to illegally contribute funds to the 1987 election campaigns of several Liberal MPPs. Peterson shuffled his cabinet on August 1, 1989 and Hošek was not included. Hošek did not receive funds from Starr but several key members of the Housing Ministry were implicated in the scandal. Hošek had also made an unpopular decision to not reappoint former Toronto mayor John Sewell to the board of the Metro Toronto Housing Authority.\n\nThe Peterson government was defeated in the 1990 Ontario election, Hošek lost her riding to Tony Rizzo of the NDP by 2,280 votes.\n\nHošek became director of the Liberal Party of Canada's caucus research bureau in 1990. Along with Paul Martin, she co-authored \"Creating Opportunity\", as the party's campaign platform for the 1993 federal election was called. After Liberal leader Jean Chrétien became Prime Minister of Canada, Hošek was appointed Director of Policy and Research in the Prime Minister's Office, and wrote the Liberal platforms for the 1997 and 2000 federal elections\n\nIn 2001, Hošek left the PMO to become president and CEO of the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research. She retired from this position in May 2012.\n\nOn October 27, 2002, she received an honorary doctorate from the University of Ottawa.\n\nOn October 5, 2006, she was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, she received an honorary doctorate from York University (Ontario).\n"}
{"id": "57239826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57239826", "title": "Claude Tayag", "text": "Claude Tayag\n\nClaudio Suarez Tayag (born 7 August 1956), more popularly known as Claude Tayag, is a Filipino artist, restaurateur and food writer. He is best known for depicting scenes of impressionistic landscapes and scenes of Philippine folk festivals and religious imagery in his art. In recent years, he has written and been involved with Philippine gastronomy both as renowned chef and as food writer with his weekly column, \"Turo-Turo\" (Filipino for pinpoint) on \"The Philippine Star\". A scion of the Tayag family of Pampanga, he is the son of author and journalist, Renato D. Tayag.\n\nTayag was born in Angeles City in the province of Pampanga on 7 August 1956 to Renato \"Katoks\" D. Tayag, a journalist for the \"Manila Times\"; and Adoracion Suarez. Tayag married Mary Ann Quioc, a former flight attendant and trainer of Cathay Pacific and have a son Victor Nicolo.\n\nTayag graduated with a bachelors degree in economics at the University of the Philippines Diliman, but also undertook several courses in architecture at the same time.\n\nFrom the circle of friends cultivated by his father, Tayag was surrounded by the noted personalities in the Philippine arts and letters including Emilio Aguilar Cruz, Sofronio Mendoza (SYM), Romulo Galicano, Adrian Cristobal Cruz and Ibarra dela Rosa who will later be collectively known as the Dimasalang Group. His encountering with Aguilar Cruz and others, spawned his oeuvre of painting in plein air leading to his first one-man exhibition at ABC Galleries in Manila in 1978 on his acrylic and watercolor landscapes.\n\nConsequently, in 1979, Tayag encountered the works of French-based Philippine painter Macario Vitalis while doing his travels on an eleven-month travel around Europe. Tayag and Vitalis became acquainted with each and whom he frequently visited in his residence in Plestin-les-Grèves in Brittany.\n\nSubsequently, his paintings revolved on themes ranging from the local festivals in particular the Moriones and the Ati-atihan, Philippine folk religious imagery (better known as santos), landscapes of the Cordillera region and a travelogue of sceneries in Europe and Japan from 1979 to 1980. By 1990, Tayag delved towards woodwork and sculpture by forming sculptures delving in waves and abstractions by means of wood lamination. His sculptures and his wood furniture are mainly reminiscent of the works of Constantin Brâncuși and Alexander Calder.\n\nIn 1989, after receiving a grant from the Cultural Center of the Philippines (CCP), Tayag made a large-scale black and white sumi painting known as \"Black Mountain\" which was later mounted in the lobby of the Little Theater of the CCP. The painting however was destroyed in a fire in the late 1990s.\nTayag has actively participated in several one-man and group exhibitions in the Philippines, China, the United States, and Spain, where he exhibited with both Filipino, Southeast Asian and Spanish artists.\n\nIn 2003, he held a three-man show with Ben Cabrera and Patis Tesoro in a museum in his hometown, Angeles City. Other Filipino artists who exhibited in group shows with him include Ofelia Gelvezon-Tequi, Phyllis Zaballero, Soler Santos, Abdulmari Imao, and Sajid Imao. Tayag also participated in the 20th Asian International Art Exhibition at the Ayala Museum in 2005.\n\nIn 2011, alongside with co-curator Ofelia Gelvezon-Tequi, Tayag curated the retrospective of the early works of French-based Philippine painter Vitalis at the Total Gallery space of the Alliance Française de Manille in Makati City from 1 to 31 March 2011.\n\nTayag's work is displayed in numerous public and private collections, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20470908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20470908", "title": "Commandants of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School", "text": "Commandants of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School\n\nThe commanding officer of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School (USAF TPS) is known as its Commandant. The commandant manages the school which is a military unit that operates in a distinctly academic atmosphere. The position is usually held by a colonel selected by the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) commander although this authority may be delegated to the commander of the Air Force Flight Test Center (AFFTC). The commandant oversees all flying training, academic instruction, budgeting, and curriculum administration at the school. The commandant also chairs a board of officers that selects the school's students. The selection board consists of flight test squadron commanders with a majority of the board members being TPS graduates. Every three years, the commandant conducts a review of the school's curriculum with participation from flight test squadrons, the U.S. Naval TPS, and operational squadrons.\n\nThe school's mission is to produce experimental test pilots, flight test engineers, and flight test navigators to lead and conduct test and evaluation of aerospace weapon systems. The school was established on September 9, 1944 as the Flight Test Training Unit at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (AFB) in Dayton, Ohio. To take advantage of the uncongested skies and superb flying weather, the school was moved on February 4, 1951 to its present location at Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert of Southern California. Edwards AFB is the home of the Air Force Flight Test Center and has been an integral part of flight testing for over fifty years. \n\nBetween 1962 and 1972, the Test Pilot School expanded its role to include astronaut training for military test pilots. Thirty-seven TPS graduates of this era were selected for the U.S. space program, and twenty-six went on to earn astronaut's wings by flying in the X-15, Gemini, Apollo, and Space Shuttle programs. Although the school no longer trains astronauts, many TPS graduates since 1972 have been selected by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for duties in space. The school encourages applications from civilians, personnel from other U.S. military services, and individuals from foreign countries. An exchange program allows selected students to attend other test pilot schools including the United States Naval Test Pilot School, the United Kingdom's Empire Test Pilots' School (ETPS), and France's École du personnel navigant d'essais et de réception (EPNER).\n\nThe following list provides a complete list of commandants of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School. The table contains their name, rank, dates as commandant, the TPS class from which they graduated (if applicable), and notable events that occurred during their tenure at the school.\n\n Individual was killed in an aviation-related accident.<br>\n\nUSAF TPS has produced many notable alumni including astronauts, record-setting aviators, and senior Air Force leaders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14285137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285137", "title": "Daizangi (Hazara tribe)", "text": "Daizangi (Hazara tribe)\n\nDaizangi (or Dhaizangi), (), is one of the major tribe of the Hazaras of Hazarajat in central Afghanistan. They inhabit the Bamyan, Yakawlang, Panjab and Waras districts of Bamyan Province, the Shahristan in Daikundi Province, Lal Wa Sarjangal District in Ghor Province and the Gizab District in Uruzgan Province. They are said (in the absence of any reliable statistics) to be the largest tribe of the Hazaras. The 19th-century Hazara Mir Elkhani,Mir Naser Baig, Mir (Chieftain) Mir Azeem Beg was the mir of the Daizangi who led the final battle of the Hazaras against the Afghan Amir (Abdur Rahman Khan) in the battle of Urozgan. He was exiled to Bokhara in present day Uzbekistan, where he wrote his memoirs \"Yad e Guzishta\", Memories of the past. Most Notable person from the Daizangi tribe is General Khudadad Khan.Their subtribes include the Bubali, Gedi, Kamyaba, Kut-daghi, Khushamadi, Kirigu, Miramur, Qaraqul Daghi, Sag Deh, Sag Jui, Sag-Pae, Sehpai, Takana, Takash, Urarus, and Yangur.\n\n"}
{"id": "47053929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47053929", "title": "Dirty Dishes", "text": "Dirty Dishes\n\nDirty Dishes is a New York City-based American rock band founded by songwriter/singer/guitarist Jenny Tuite. Dirty Dishes' style is described as heavy-laden hooks blasting headfirst into speaker-shredding fuzz. Sonically the band has been compared to Smashing Pumpkins, My Bloody Valentine, Radiohead, and Sonic Youth.\n\nOn January 27, 2015, Dirty Dishes released their debut album “Guilty” on Exploding in Sound Records. Recording for the album was split between Los Angeles, CA and Chelsea, MA.\nThe album was engineered by Chris Thompson and recorded in Thompson’s garage.\nThe album was well-received and described as \"enduring a waking dream — it’s both a harrowing and totally beautiful experience” by Stereogum. \"Dirty Dishes’ composition is refreshing and intense. Guilty is clearly the result of Tuite's significant growth as a songwriter, and is the kind of record that a band can build a following on.\"\nThe album cover is a photo of a school that expelled Tuite.\nOn January 28, 2015 the band released the music video for “Thank You Come Again” The video premiered on The A.V Club and was directed by Pat Bishop of the comedy group Women. The video was inspired by Tuite's experience working at grocery store in Silverlake.\n\nOn January 29, 2016 the band released the music video for \"Guilty.\" The video premiered on Independent Music News, and was directed by The Current Sea, the creative team of Sarah Zucker and Brian Griffith. The video features an alien figurine taking a miniature fern out for a walk, eventually liberating the fern on a mountain overlooking Los Angeles, with psychedelic analog visuals. \n\nOn February 8th, 2016 the band released their single \"All of Me.\" The track premiered on Noisey, along with a long string of national U.S. tour dates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34137127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137127", "title": "Eleanor Ambrose", "text": "Eleanor Ambrose\n\nEleanor Ambrose (1718–1816) was a celebrated beauty and Catholic heiress. Her father, Michael, was well-educated but disbarred from several professions by his religion. He became a brewer and made his fortune. He resided at Mount Ambrose, Swords, County Dublin.\n\nEleanor was described as \"beautiful, witty, intellectual and a fevent patriot\" who \"managed to penetrate Dublin society, despite the fact that she was a Catholic. Indeed, she became a darling of the Viceregal Court, and during the Viceroyalty of Lord Chesterfield, she and her sister Clara were the prominent socialites of the Castle set. Chesterfield was attracted to her, and she soon accompanied him to all official ceremonies. Influenced by her opinions, Chesterfield is reported to have told George II that \"poverty not Popery was to be feared in Ireland\", he had found \"only one dangerous papist, the brightness of whose eyes and charms, and whose conversation were indeed dangerous\", and her name was Eleanor Ambrose\".\n\nHowever, Eleanor ensured the relationship stayed platonic.\n\nIn 1752 she married Roger Palmer of Castle Lackin, County Mayo (created baronet 1777) and had issue. She died at her house on Henry Street, Dublin, in 1816, \"retaining to the last a vehement hatred of the wrongs under which her Catholic fellow-countrymen laboured.\"\n\nA song written about her story by Aido Lawlor - from Rush North Co Dublin - was recorded by the singer Aoife Scott on her 2016 album Carry the Day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52990301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52990301", "title": "Estelle Mouzin affair", "text": "Estelle Mouzin affair\n\nThe Estelle Mouzin affair is a French criminal case which began on 9 January 2003 with the disappearance of Estelle Mouzin in the city of Guermantes in France. Estelle Mouzin was a nine-year-old girl who was returning from school when she disappeared.\n\nOn Thursday 9 January 2003, Estelle Mouzin, a nine-year-old girl, disappeared on the way back from school in Guermantes. She was seen for the last time in front of a bakery, while she was coming back to her mother's home, Suzanne Mouzin, who was in the process of divorce with the girl's father, Eric Mouzin. Her mother reported the fact she was missing to the local police station shortly after 7 P.M. Her disappearance had a huge media coverage all over the country.\n\nThe first person to be suspected was serial killer Michel Fourniret, who was arrested in June 2003 in Belgium. However, after consideration, the police discounted Fourniret because he had an alibi: a phonecall was made from his home at the time of Estelle Mouzin's disappearance.\n\nTwo weeks before Estelle's disappearance, a girl of the same age was almost kidnapped by a man in a white van, from which she was able to make a facial composite. When Fourniret was suspected, investigators showed his photo to the girl, and he says it wasn't him who tried to kidnap her. While taking the police to a place he buried one of his victims, Fourniret described the clothes his victim was wearing, and it was very close to those Estelle wore the day she disappeared.\n\nDespite his alibi and the fact Fourniret denied any involvement in this case, the fact it could be Fourniret was taken into consideration when the police found a television recording and photos of the girl at the suspect's home and on his computer. The hypothesis of the implication of Fourniret is abandoned in 2007, for lack of sufficient proofs, and the fact he has an alibi.\n\nThe inquiry, led by the commissioner Jean-Marc Bloch, employed unprecedented means in French history; more than 130 persons were interrogated by the police and all the houses of the city were seized.\n\nEach year, a march is organised in memory of Estelle Mouzin.\n\nSeveral arrests took place on Thursday 31 January 2008 in the cities of Brie-Comte-Robert and Lognes (Seine-et-Marne). A search was conducted at the Royal Wok restaurant in Brie-Comte-Robert, where it was suspected human remains were used. On February 1, this track proved to be unsuccessful; only the remains of an animal were found in the place.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1737961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737961", "title": "Franco-Columbian", "text": "Franco-Columbian\n\nFranco-Columbians () are French Canadians or French-speaking Canadians (Francophones) living in the Canadian province of British Columbia.\n\nBritish Columbia is, geographically, the farthest-removed province from Canada's historic francophone population, thus it is not surprising to find that francophone British Columbians are few in number. The 2001 census placed the number of British Columbians with French as a mother tongue at 57,280, 1.3% of BC's population, ranking seventh after English (3,062,430), 'other Chinese' (357,865), Cantonese (133,245), Punjabi (94,055), German (73,625), and Tagalog (66,120). A good number of these listed francophones would be European and African immigrants or migrants from eastern Canada making the Franco-Columbian community a diverse one encompassing many places of origin and differing roots in the province. The popularity of French immersion education programmes have also meant that the population of second-language French speakers outnumbers the francophone population.\n\nWhile Francophones have a significant history in the province due to the founders of the Hudson's Bay and North West companies, who were mostly Metis, and during the gold rushes of the 1860s, when many from France and Belgium became notable in business and society, organized migration from Quebec did not happen until the early 19th century, when the owners of Fraser Mills imported mill workers from that province, forming the community of Maillardville, a neighbourhood of Coquitlam in suburban Vancouver. In 1909 mill workers were brought from Quebec to Maillardville and their descendants constitute a small and proud community. Today Maillardville describes itself as \"a community with a francophone heart\" and is home to a number of francophone community organizations, schools, churches, a retirement home, the annual \"Festival du Bois\", and an organization of francophone scouts and guides. Community organizations place the francophone population of the Coquitlam area at 13,000.\n\nFrancophone community centres and resources also exist in Vancouver, Prince George, Nelson,Kelowna, Penticton, Victoria, Nanaimo and Kamloops. The Fédération des Francophones de la C.-B. (www.ffcb.ca) is the giant umbrella organization assembling all other francophone associations in BC - see https://web.archive.org/web/20140810040706/http://www.ffcb.ca/nos-membres/liste-des-membres/\n\nThe province is served by a francophone school board (Le Conseil scolaire francophone de la Colombie-Britannique) which operates 40 schools offering education from kindergarten through grade 12 in the Lower Mainland, Sunshine Coast, Vancouver Island, Okanagan, Kootenays, Prince George, Fraser Valley, and other parts of the province. A large and vibrant French immersion programme, although intended for anglophones, also includes some francophone students. The province hosts an active chapter of Canadian Parents for French (BC-Yukon Branch).\n\nAlthough French courses, and training for French immersion teaching are offered at the province's universities, there is no bilingual or French-language university in the province. Simon Fraser University, however, offers five degree programmes that can be completed entirely in French. Educacentre College is the province's only French-language college with campuses in Vancouver, Victoria and Prince George as well as distance education options.\n\nVancouver-based television station CBUFT-DT broadcasts throughout the province via relay transmitters, as do French-language radio stations CBUF-FM (Première Chaîne) and, to a lesser extent, CBUX-FM (Espace musique). Other French-language media such as CBC's \"Ici RDI\", TV5 and \"MusiquePlus\" are also available but not locally based. TVA's owned-and-operated station in Montreal (CFTM-DT) is also available on basic cable.\nBetween 1968 and 1998, the province had a newspaper called \"Le Soleil de la Colombie-Britannique\". A digitized version of the complete run of the newspaper is available online. There is now a newspaper published out of Vancouver called \"L'Express du Pacifique\".\nThe Société radio communautaire Victoria, started in 1999 as an offshoot of the Société francophone de Victoria, was incorporated in 2004 and started on-air FM radio programming on 7 November 2007 non-stop as CILS-FM at 107.9 MHz and 250 watts - see www.cilsfm.ca\n\nIn addition to Coquitlam's annual Festival du Bois, Canadian Parents for French host an annual French Celebration Week, Francapalooza, a French film festival and French-language youth camps targeting both Francophone and French immersion students. \"L'Association des Ecrivains de la Colombie Britannique\" publishes a monthly youth magazine called \"La Moustique\". A French-language theatre group called \"Théâtre la Seizième\" is also active in the province as well as the dance troupes \"Danseurs du Pacifique\" and \"Les Cornouillers\", and the annual BC Francophone Games. The \"Conseil Culturel et Artistique de la Colombie Britannique\" serves as a community organization in the area of arts and culture.\nThe Association Historique Francophone de Victoria (https://sites.google.com/site/associationhistoriquevictoria/), started in 1985 as an offshoot of the Société francophone de Victoria, has published a book called \"Présence francophone à Victoria (1843 - 1987)\" - see http://www.espacesfrancophones.uwaterloo.ca/images/documents/PresenceFrancophoneAVictoriaC.pdf\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39207787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39207787", "title": "Franco Reviglio", "text": "Franco Reviglio\n\nFranco Reviglio (born 1935) is an Italian academic, businessman and socialist politician, who served in various capacities in the public administration of Italy.\n\nReviglio was born in Turin in 1935. He was also educated in Turin. His undergraduate thesis was about improving efficiency in state-owned companies.\n\nReviglio worked as a professor of public finance at the University of Turin. He was a member of the Socialist Party and served as the minister of finance from 4 August 1979 to 28 June 1981 in the Cabinet led by Prime Minister Francesco Cossiga. After working at the University of Turin for two more years he left his job in 1983 and became the president of the Italian energy firm Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, which is commonly known as ENI. He was appointed to the post in order to reorganize and improve the firm. He achieved these goals in large degree. In fact, ENI witnessed one of its most successful periods when he led the firm. He supported privatization as a means of reorganizing asset portfolios and investment strategies. Reviglio's tenure at the firm ended in November 1989, and Umberto Colombo succeeded him as president of the firm. He was one of the directors of the Aspen Institute in Italy during that time.\n\nOn 5 June 1990, Reviglio joined as a senior advisor to Wasserstein Perella & Co.'s team in regard to its European operations and held the post until 1992. In 1992, he was appointed budget minister in the Cabinet led by Prime Minister Giuliano Amato. His tenure lasted until February 1993, and he was replaced by Beniamino Andreatta as budget minister. Reviglio was appointed finance minister in a cabinet reshuffle on 21 February 1993. He succeeded Giovanni Goria in the post. Reviglio resigned from office on 30 March 1993 due to his alleged involvement in bribery scandal. He also served as a member of municipal council of Turin and as a senator (1992 – 1994).\n\nAfter leaving office and politics, Reviglio returned to his teaching post at the University of Turin. He also assumed the role of senior advisor to Lehman Brothers from 2002 to 2007. He is the former president and CEO of Azienda Energetica Metropolitana Torino SpA (Turin Energy Company; 2000 – 2006) as well as the president of NNOICOM, TLC company. He is the emeritus professor at the University of Turin.\n"}
{"id": "1287060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1287060", "title": "Frederick Dobson Middleton", "text": "Frederick Dobson Middleton\n\nGeneral Sir Frederick Dobson Middleton (4 November 1825 – 25 January 1898) was a British general noted for his service throughout the Empire and particularly in the North-West Rebellion.\n\nEducated at Maidstone Grammar School and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, Middleton was commissioned into the 58th Regiment of Foot in 1842.\n\nHe served in the New Zealand Wars and in 1845, he was mentioned in dispatches for his part in the capture of the stronghold of Māori chief Te Ruki Kawiti.\n\nIn 1848 he transferred to the 96th Regiment of Foot in India and took part in the suppression of the Indian Mutiny in which campaign he was recommended for, but not actually awarded, the Victoria Cross. He went on to be Commandant of the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, in 1879.\n\nHe was appointed General Officer Commanding the Militia of Canada in 1884. In 1885 a group of Métis launched the North-West Rebellion, and Middleton was named commander of the main force sent to put it down. After a defeat at the Battle of Fish Creek, his force arrived at Batoche, Saskatchewan and was victorious in the Battle of Batoche.\n\nMiddleton left Ottawa and arrived in Winnipeg to evaluate Military District 10 which covered the Prairies as the officer in charge of District 10 had just been dismissed on the account of his alcoholism, the same day as the Battle of Duck Lake, where the North-West Mounted Police were defeated by the \"Métis\". Through Middleton was elderly and cautious, his response to the news of Duck Lake was swift and on the same day, he departed Winnipeg on a train bound for Qu'Apelle with a company of Manitoba militia. The major difficulty for Middleton was mobilizing the militia who had to travel from Ontario and Quebec on the partially completed Canadian Pacific Railway, requiring that the militiamen march through the snows and rocks of northern Ontario to reach Winnipeg. The Canadian historian Desmond Morton described Middleton as an experienced soldier who \"...mixed common sense and pomposity in equal measure\", whose plan was to take Batoche, the capital of the Métis \"exovedate\" (council), which he predicated would end the rebellion. As the rebellion had shaken international confidence in the credit-worthiness of Canada, Middleton was under immense pressure from the Prime Minister, Sir John A. Macdonald, to end the rebellion as soon as possible. The militiamen arriving in Winnipeg were mostly untrained, and Middleton had to train them as they marched to Saskatchewan.\n\nOn 6 April 1885, Middleton set off on a march to Batoche. On 23 April 1885, the \"Métis\" and Cree Indians under Gabriel Dumont ambushed the Canadians at Fish Creek. Despite Middeton's orders, Colonel William Dillon Otter after reaching Battleford, set out to do battle with the Cree, and was defeated by Chief Poundmaker at the Battle of Cut Knife Hill; only the latter's unwillingness to have his warriors take advantage of the rout saved the Canadians from being annihilated. Poundmaker was a reluctant rebel against Canada, and did not want the Canadian forces annihilated, believing this would save his people from reprisals. Middleton planned to advance on Batchoe with river streamers owned by the Hudson's Bay Company bringing up supplies along the South Saskatchewan river, and as streamers were not available at first, Middleton chose to wait. Despite their own panic at Fish Creek, many of the militiamen came to curse \"Old Fred\" as too timid, but Middleton had sound reasons for not wishing to advance without a means of resupply. Middleton knew that the \"Métis\" and the Cree were expert horsemen and believed they would ambush any supply wagons, which is why he preferred to bring up supplies and reinforcements via the river.\n\nOn 5 May 1885, the streamer \"Northcote\" was ready and Middleton set off for Batoche. On 9 May 1885, the \"Northcote\" was stopped by a cable that Dumont had laid across the river outside of Batoche, and its American captain turned back when the boat came under fire. The \"Northcote\" was a diversion to draw out the \"Métis\" and at the same time, the Field Force under Middleton arrived at Batchoe. Seeing his troops beginning to panic again, Middleton ordered his wagons to be drawn into a circle to form a strong defensive position. On 11 May 1885, Middleton observed that the outnumbered \"Métis\" and Cree had to rush from position to position on the Prairies and on the morning of 12 May 1885, Middleton ordered his artillery would open fire on his opponents to pin them down while his infantry would advance. Nothing had happened as infantry claimed not to hear the fire of the artillery; after accusing his men of cowardice, Middleton attacked again on the afternoon and with a battalion commanded by a Conservative MP, Colonel Arthur Williams leading the attack. Inspired by the example of Williams's battalion, other battalions began to charge forward. Shouting enthusiastically, the Canadians raced down from the hill, and disheartened \"Métis\" and Cree were soon defeated.\n\nMorton described Middleton as cautious, but highly professional officer who was a better tactician than Dumont, who brought the war to a swift conclusion in a manner that was much less bloodier than it could have been. For his service in the war, Middleton was knighted by Queen Victoria in 1885. He also received the thanks of the Parliament of Canada and the sum of $20,000.\n\nHe resigned as head of the Militia in 1890 when a select committee of the House of Commons criticized him for the misappropriation of furs from a Métis prisoner, Charles Bremner, during the rebellion.\nThere were also other criticisms of Middleton's command during the Rebellion, such as his hesitancy to unleash the Canadian militia troops to assault the Metis positions at Batoche, and unfair treatmant and poor maintenance accorded the troops under his command.<ref</ref>\n\nFrederick Dobson Middleton married, as his first wife, Mary Emily Hassall.\n\nHe married in February 1870 as his second wife, Marie Cecile Eugénie Doucet, daughter of Theodore Doucet, N.P., of Montreal. She was born in Montreal in 1846, and was educated at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, Sault-au-Recollet. The couple had two sons and a daughter. She died at Tateley, Hants, England, 1 November 1899.\n"}
{"id": "7991473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7991473", "title": "Frederick Francis IV, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin", "text": "Frederick Francis IV, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin\n\nFrederick Francis IV (Friedrich Franz Michael; 9 April 1882 – 17 November 1945) was the last Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and regent of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. He inherited the throne when he was fifteen years old in 1897 and was forced to renounce it in 1918.\n\nHe was born in Palermo the son of Friedrich Franz III, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, and Grand Duchess Anastasia Mikhailovna of Russia. He succeeded his father as Grand Duke upon his death on 10 April 1897, but due to his minority the grand duchy was governed by his uncle Duke Johann Albrecht as regent until Friedrich Franz came of age on 9 April 1901.\n\nOn 7 June 1904, Frederick Francis married Princess Alexandra of Hanover and Cumberland in Gmunden. She was the second eldest daughter of Ernest Augustus, Crown Prince of Hanover, and his wife Princess Thyra of Denmark, a daughter of Christian IX of Denmark.\n\nThey had five children:\n\n\nFollowing the 1918 suicide of Grand Duke Adolphus Frederick VI of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, Frederick Francis took up the regency of Strelitz. This happened because the heir presumptive Duke Charles Michael was serving in the Russian Army at the time and had indicated that he wished to renounce his succession rights. Friedrich Franz abdicated the grand ducal throne on 14 November 1918 following the German Empire's defeat in World War I; the regency ended at the same time.\n\nAfter his abdication, he was initially not allowed to live in Mecklenburg and had to move to Denmark. A year later, he was permitted to return. He recovered some of his former properties and occupied some of his former homes. Frederick Francis died on 17 November 1945 in Flensburg after being arrested by No6 RAF Security section on 9 November 1945. He was succeeded as head of the grand ducal house by his son Hereditary Grand Duke Friedrich Franz. However, his former states became part of East Germany. His widow and children were forced to move to the West.\n\n"}
{"id": "32577659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32577659", "title": "Greg Hyatt", "text": "Greg Hyatt\n\nGregory Sol \"Greg\" Hyatt is an American political activist and a former attorney and politician. He was a candidate for Governor of Massachusetts in 1986, but dropped out of the race due to allegations of forging names on his nomination papers, having ties to organized crime, and erratic personal behavior.\n\nHyatt was born and raised in Methuen, Massachusetts. His father was a local doctor. In 1971 he graduated from Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts. He was class valedictorian. Hyatt attended Yale University, where he was a member of the Yale Debate Association and the floor leader of the Party of the Right in the Yale Political Union. In 1979 he graduated from Boston College Law School and began practicing law.\n\nHyatt served as executive director of Citizens for Limited Taxation from 1979 to 1980. He was one of the architects of Proposition 2½, a ballot measure that limits property tax increases by Massachusetts municipalities and traveled the state to drum up support for the measure. During the Reagan administration, Hyatt worked in the Department of Education and the Small Business Administration.\n\nHyatt's political career began in 1984 when he was a candidate for the 5th congressional district. He defeated Thomas P. Tierney for the Republican nomination and faced Democratic State Senator Chester G. Atkins in the general election. In a heavily Democratic district, Hyatt was able to finish a close second to Atkins.\n\nIn 1985, Hyatt, along with radio host Jerry Williams, led the effort to gather signatures to place a measure to repeal Massachusetts' mandatory seat belt law on the 1986 ballot. The question made it to the ballot and would be passed by the voters.\n\nOn March 13, 1986, Hyatt became the first Republican to enter the gubernatorial race.\n\nHyatt ran on a platform of limiting state taxes, bringing back the death penalty, providing state aid to private schools, and competency testing and merit pay for teachers. He opposed the state law that made wearing a seat belt mandatory, the use of roadblocks to crack down on drunken driving, busing, and the use of public funds for abortions.\n\nShortly before the Republican convention in April 1986, Associated Builders and Contractors, a group of Massachusetts builders and contractors that had hired Hyatt as a consultant on a petition drive, announced that they had fired him for ineffectuality and erratic behavior, including staring off into space, heavy coffee drinking, talking on the phone when no one was on the other end, and twice appearing naked before a secretary in his office.\n\nAt the convention, Hyatt was challenged by former Metropolitan District Commissioner Guy Carbone, and state representative Royall H. Switzler, who was drafted at the convention by anti-Hyatt Republicans. After a strong showing for Switzler on the first ballot (891 votes for Hyatt, 775 votes for Switzler, 258 votes for Carbone), some of Hyatt's major supporters, including Ray Shamie and Papa Gino's founder Michael Valerio, announced that they would not oppose Switzler's nomination. On the second ballot, Switzler won the nomination with 975 votes to Hyatt's 876 and Carbone's 60. Despite losing the nomination, Hyatt chose to stay in the race and run against Switzler in the Republican primary.\n\nDuring the campaign, Hyatt and his aides were investigated by the Massachusetts Attorney General's office on charges for forging names on his nomination papers. He was also recorded discussing politics and accepting a cash gift from New England mobster George Kattar on a Federal Bureau of Investigation wiretap. Charges were not brought against him in either case.\n\nIn June, Switzler dropped out of the race after inaccuracies about his military record were revealed, leaving Hyatt the only Republican candidate for Governor.\n\nOn July 14, Hyatt dropped out of the race. Despite dropping out, Hyatt won the Republican primary. He declined the nomination and write-in candidate George Kariotis was declared the nominee. Hyatt later stated he declined the nomination because Valerio and former Governor John A. Volpe promised to retire his campaign debts in exchange for not accepting the party's nomination, which they never followed up on. Ann Kramer, a Republican State Committee member who was at the meeting with Hyatt, Valerio, Volpe, and other party leaders stated that they agreed to help Hyatt raise money to help him repay his debt, but did not promise to retire it entirely.\n\nIn November 1989, Hyatt gave his first interview after dropping out of the election. Hyatt described himself as still being in a \"state of emotional shock\" and feeling \"gypped and violated\". At the time of the interview he had been unable to find work for several months, was living off of a stipend provided to him by his father, going through a divorce, and undergoing psychological counseling. Since the election, Hyatt had gained 35 pounds and grew a mustache.\n\nThat same year, Hyatt sued Associated Builders and Contractors and its former executive Stephen Tocco for slander. During the suit it was revealed that Hyatt's psychiatrist had described him as having narcissistic personality disorder and having been in \"hypomanic stages.\" Most of his defamation suit was dismissed, however the court allowed Hyatt's charge that Associated Builders had defamed him by claiming he had been fired stand (Hyatt contended that he was not fired, but quit). In September 1993, the case was settled out of court.\n\nIn 1992, Hyatt changed his voter registration to Democrat so he could vote for Paul Tsongas in the Democratic presidential primary. He also voted for Marty Meehan in that year's United States House of Representatives election. While he described himself as \"still basically a conservative\" he also stated that he \"believe[d] societies should be judged by how they treat their less fortunate\".\n\nIn 1992, Hyatt was elected to the Methuen Charter Commission. In 1993 and 2003, he was an unsuccessful candidate for Mayor of Methuen.\n\nHyatt ran a website, thebulldogedition.com, where he wrote about politics in Massachusetts and Methuen. The site was described by \"Boston Globe\" columnist Alex Beam as \"belligerent\" and \"off-the-wall\". A portion of the website had to be taken down due to a judge's order. As he did not have a computer, Hyatt updated the site from the Nevins Memorial Library in Methuen. In a 2005 Boston Globe column, Hyatt was described as occasionally working as a political or media consultant, on probation for making hostile threats, not having a car or computer, being in poor health, and described his living situation by stating \"I bounce around\". Hyatt said that he saw himself as a good candidate to host a talk show. He also stated that he rekindled his religious faith.\n\nHe later moved to Amesbury, Massachusetts. In 2007, he was a leader in the effort to get Proposition 1, a proposed initiative petition that would which would cap increases in property tax levies to 1% a year and eliminate the auto excise tax, on the ballot. On September 26, 2007 he was disbarred by the Board of Bar Overseers for \"serious crimes\", including intimidation of a witness and violating a protective order. Hyatt maintained his innocence and stated that he had only pleaded guilty because he did not have enough money to fight the charges in court. He had not practiced law since 2000, when he stopped paying his bar association dues.\n"}
{"id": "12499397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12499397", "title": "Hamka Hamzah", "text": "Hamka Hamzah\n\nHamka Hamzah (born 29 January 1984 in Makassar, South Sulawesi) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Arema FC as a defender. In the past, he once played as a striker and playmaker. Hamka also has one appearance as a goalkeeper in Persik Kediri.\n\nHe signed a three-year contract with Pusamania Borneo on November 11, 2014.\n\nWinner\n\nWinner\n\nWinner\n\n"}
{"id": "18914127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18914127", "title": "Hani Al-Dhabit", "text": "Hani Al-Dhabit\n\nHani Al-Dhabit Faraj Bait Al-Noobi (; born 15 October 1979), commonly known as Hani Al-Dhabit, is an Omani footballer who plays for Dhofar S.C.S.C. in Oman Professional League.\n\nHani Al-Dhabit is a long-time veteran of the most successful sports club in Oman, Dhofar S.C.S.C. and has been in the squad for over 10 years. He is the captain of Dhofar and wears the number 14 jersey, as he had previously worn throughout his career with the national team.\n\nHe has also played for various clubs in GCC like for Baniyas SC of the United Arab Emirates, Al Sadd SC of Qatar and Al Jahra SC of Kuwait.\n\nHe played for the Oman national football team from 1998 to 2008 and was the captain of the team in 2002 and 2003. His most successful season for the national team was during 2001-02 and he was the world's leading goalscorer in international matches in 2001.\n\nHani has made appearances in the 14th Arabian Gulf Cup, the 15th Arabian Gulf Cup, the 16th Arabian Gulf Cup and the 17th Arabian Gulf Cup.\n\nIn the 14th Arabian Gulf Cup in 1998, despite his young age, he scored a goal in a 2-2 draw against Bahrain. In the tournament, Oman finished at the fourth place with four points from one win and one draw.\n\nHe first showed his talent during the 15th Arabian Gulf Cup in 2002 scoring five goals, a hat-trick in a 3-1 win over the then powerhouse 9-time competition winners, Kuwait, a goal in a 1-2 loss against Qatar and another in a 1-1 draw against Bahrain. At the end of the competition he was awarded with the \"Top Goal Scorer\" award. In the tournament, Oman finished at the fifth place with four points from one win and one draw.\n\nAlthough not being successful in scoring any goals in both the 16th Arabian Gulf Cup and the 17th Arabian Gulf Cup, he still made many appearances, and was handed the captain's band once again in the 16th Arabian Gulf Cup in 2003–04. This time Hani led Oman to its most successful position ever yet in the Arabian Gulf Cup competition, reaching the final four round for the first time with eight points from two wins and two draws.\n\nDuring the 17th Arabian Gulf Cup in 2004, he was not assigned captaincy by Czech coach, Milan Macala. He was featured widely as a substitute, but still received an adequate amount of playing time, and scored a goal in the penalty-kick shootout during the final in which Oman lost to the hosts Qatar in a penalty shootout after the goalkeeping sensation Ali Al-Habsi missed a penalty. Qatar won the match 6-5 on penalties after the match had ended 1-1 at normal time. Amad Al-Hosni was awarded the \"Top Goal Scorer\" award of the competition with a total of four goals.\n\nHe scored five goals in the qualification for the 2004 AFC Asian Cup, one in a 7-0 win over Nepal, a brace in a 6-0 win over Vietnam, other in a 3-1 win over South Korea and another in a 2-0 win over Vietnam hence helping his team to qualify for the 2004 AFC Asian Cup. In the tournament, Oman won four points in a 2-0 win over Thailand and a 2-2 draw against Iran and hence failed to qualify for the quarter-finals.\n\nHe has made fourteen appearances in 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification and has represented the national team in 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification.\n\nHe scored eleven goals in 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification, five goals in a 12-0 win over Laos, a brace in the return leg in a 7-0 win over Laos, a brace in a 7-0 win over Philippines and another in a 2-2 draw against the United Arab Emirates. During the qualifications, Oman had scored some of the most goals in the shortest period of time, with the largest margin wins in the team's history. Many of the goals were scored by Hani.\n\nAfter eventually being knocked out of qualification, Hani had scored a total of 11 goals in 4 matches out of the 12 matches Oman had played. In one match, he was on the brink of a double hat-trick but unfortunately he couldn't. At the end of the year, he was awarded the 2001 Top Goal Scorer Award with a total of 22 international goals, beating Spain's Raúl, England's Michael Owen, and Portugal's Luís Figo, becoming the first Omani and only third Arab, to win the title.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7088730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7088730", "title": "Harry Julian Allen", "text": "Harry Julian Allen\n\nHarry Julian Allen (1 April 1910 – 29 January 1977), also known as Harvey Allen, was an aeronautical engineer and a Director of the NASA Ames Research Center, most noted for his \"Blunt Body Theory\" of atmospheric entry which permitted successful recovery of orbiting spacecraft. His technique is still used to this day.\n\nAllen was born in Maywood, Illinois. He attended Stanford University, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in engineering in 1932 and an Aeronautical Engineer professional degree in 1935. In 1936, he joined the NACA's Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory. In 1940, he moved to the Ames Research Laboratory, where he served as Chief of the Ames Theoretical Aerodynamics Branch (starting in 1941), Chief of the High-Speed Research Division (starting in 1945), Assistant Director for Astronautics (starting in 1959), and finally Center Director (1965-1969).\n\nAllen was interested in the full range of aerodynamics research, and made contributions to the study of subsonic, transonic, supersonic and hypersonic flow. When the United States became interested in the design of ballistic missiles, Allen began research in the dynamics and thermodynamics of atmospheric reentry, as well as the effects of radiation and meteorites on space vehicles. His most significant contribution in this area was the idea of using a blunt nose for reentry vehicles, otherwise known as his \"Blunt Body Theory\". Earlier ballistic missiles, developed by both the United States and the Soviet Union, featured long nose cones with very narrow tips, which had relatively low drag when entering the atmosphere at high speeds. However, Allen demonstrated that a blunt body, although it had greater drag, would have a detached shock wave which would transfer far less heat to the vehicle than the traditional shape with its attached shock wave. Excessive heating was the greatest concern in the design of ballistic missiles and spacecraft, since it could melt their surface; the blunt body design solved this problem. Allen's theory led to the design of ablative heat shields that protected the astronauts of the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs as their space capsules re-entered the atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41532928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41532928", "title": "Heimo Korth", "text": "Heimo Korth\n\nHeimo Korth is an American outdoorsman. He and his wife Edna are among the only permanent residents of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. They live along the Coleen River, just south of the Brooks Range, and move between cabins seasonally. Striving to be self-reliant, they hunt and fish for their own food.\n\nThe Korths' lifestyle came to public attention with James Campbell's 2004 book \"The Final Frontiersman: Heimo Korth and His Family, Alone in Alaska's Arctic Wilderness\". In 2009, VBS.tv produced \"Surviving Alone in Alaska\", a documentary film showing Korth's lifestyle.\nHe was also featured among others on PBS's \"Braving Alaska\" in 1992.\n\nReliant on bush pilots to transport him in and out of his home in the bush, he was incidentally featured in \"Flying Wild Alaska\" 2011 - 2012, as Korth had hired the series' protagonist Jim Tweto to fly him out of Fairbanks.\n\nHeimo, Edna and their family, alongside 4 other families, make up the Discovery series \"The Last Alaskans\" which premiered in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "525926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525926", "title": "Intelligence officer", "text": "Intelligence officer\n\nAn Intelligence Officer is a person employed by an organization to collect, compile and/or analyze information (known as intelligence) which is of use to that organization. The term of 'Officer' is a working title, and is not to be confused with rank as in the police services, where Sergeants are also 'Police Officers,' or with Non-Commissioned Military ranks that can be Intelligence Officers as well. Organizations which employ intelligence officers include armed forces, police, civilian intelligence agencies, customs agencies and private corporations.\n\nIntelligence officers make use of a variety of sources of information, including\n\n\nPlease note, the difference between MASINT and TECHINT is that TECHINT involves analysis of weapons systems in the custody of the organization which commissions such tests, while MASINT involves analysis, or remote sensing, of trace evidence left behind by the weapons systems (unintended emissive byproducts, or \"trails\"—the spectral, chemical or RF emissions an object leaves behind which serve as distinctive signatures).\n\nThe actual role carried out by an intelligence officer varies depending on the remit of his/her parent organization. Officers of foreign intelligence agencies (e.g. the United States' Central Intelligence Agency, the United Kingdom's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) and the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS)) may spend much of their careers abroad. Officers of domestic intelligence agencies (such as the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation, the UK's Security Service (MI5) and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO)) are responsible for counter-terrorism, counter-espionage, counter-proliferation and the detection and prevention of serious organized crime within their own countries (although, in Britain, the Serious Organised Crime Agency had been set up to take care of serious organized crime).\n\nTitles and responsibilities common among intelligence officers include:\n\n\nIntelligence agents are individuals that work for or have been recruited by an Intelligence Officer, but who are not employed by the intelligence agency of the intelligence officer. Sometime around 2000, the United States Intelligence Community adopted a more \"corporate\" vocabulary and began referring to agents as assets. Intelligence agents can be of several types:\n\n\nContrary to popular belief or what is seen in Hollywood films, professionally trained intelligence officers are never referred to as agents, secret agents or special agents, they are referred to as case officers or operations officers. Agents are the foreigners who betray their own countries to pass information to the officer; agents are also known as confidential informants or assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "56352543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56352543", "title": "Isabella Montagu, Duchess of Manchester", "text": "Isabella Montagu, Duchess of Manchester\n\nIsabella Montagu, Duchess of Manchester (c.1706 – 20 December 1786), formerly Lady Isabella Montagu, was the wife of William Montagu, 2nd Duke of Manchester.\n\nShe was the daughter of John Montagu, 2nd Duke of Montagu and his wife, the former Lady Mary Churchill. Her sister, Mary, became Countess of Cardigan. Their three brothers all died in childhood.\n\nShe married the Duke of Manchester on 16 April 1723, about two years after he had inherited the dukedom. They were childless, and remained married until the duke's death in 1739.\n\nThe duchess remarried, in 1743, the politician Edward Hussey-Montagu, who was raised to the peerage in 1762 as Baron Beaulieu and in 1784 was created Earl Beaulieu.\n\nThere were two children from this second marriage:\n\n\nIsabella was one of the twenty-one 'ladies of quality and distinction' who supported Thomas Coram's efforts to establish a Foundling Hospital, who are now credited with making the endeavour a success by lending it respectability and style. She added her name to his petition on 6 January 1730, at the age of only twenty-two, which was later presented to King George II in 1735.\n\nThe duchess was known as a talented amateur artist, who, according to Horace Walpole, \"painted remarkably well in crayons\".\n"}
{"id": "13536966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536966", "title": "John Elder Robison", "text": "John Elder Robison\n\nJohn Elder Robison (born August 13, 1957) is the author of the 2007 memoir \"Look Me in the Eye\", detailing his life with undiagnosed Asperger syndrome and savant abilities, and of three other books. Robison has had several careers. In the 1970s he worked as an engineer in the music business where he is best known for creating the signature special effects guitars played by the band KISS. In the 1980s Robison worked for electronics manufacturers Milton Bradley Company (electronic games), Simplex (fire alarms and building control), and ISOREG (power conditioning systems). Robison wrote his first book at age 49.\n\nRobison was born in Athens, Georgia, while his parents were attending the University of Georgia. He is the son of poet Margaret Robison and John G. Robison (1935–2005), former head of the philosophy department at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Robison dropped out of high school in the tenth grade.\n\nHe married three times and has one son (Jack Robison a.k.a. Cubby).\n\nHe is the elder brother of memoirist Augusten Burroughs, who also wrote about his childhood in the memoir \"Running with Scissors\".\n\nHe was diagnosed with Asperger's at 40.\n\nIn 2011, Robison was featured on an episode of \"Ingenious Minds\", which discussed some of the transcranial magnetic stimulation experiments he underwent to improve his social cognition.\n\nIn \"Look Me in the Eye\", Robison describes growing up with no diagnosis of his autism, but aware that he was different, and how he was first diagnosed by a therapist friend when he was 40 years old. After writing that book, Robison became active in the planning of autism research and in autism advocacy.\n\nRobison is also the author of \"Be Different\" (2011), a how-to guide for grown ups with autism; \"Raising Cubby\" (2013), the story of raising his autistic son; and \"Switched On\" (2016), which tells the story of his participation as a research subject in brain studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, a teaching hospital of Harvard Medical School.\n\nRobison taught himself about electric circuits and sound waves. He used his self-taught knowledge to design guitars for the rock band KISS and toys for Milton Bradley.\n\nRobison runs a successful car specialty shop. He is the founder of J.E. Robison Service Co., Inc. in Springfield, Mass. Robison Service is an authorized Bosch Car Service Center that specializes in high-end European automobile service and restoration. Robison Service is also part of the Springfield Automotive Complex, which is also home to the TCS Auto Program, a licensed special education high school that teaches life skills in the context of a working commercial auto complex. The school is a partnership of Robison and Tri County Schools, a part of Northeast Center for Youth and Families of Easthampton, Mass.\n\nRobison is active in the autism rights movement. He volunteered at Autism Speaks as a member of their treatment and advisory boards, claiming that he was interested in helping remediate the disabling aspects of autism. He resigned in 2013 following an op-ed released by Suzanne Wright, a co-founder of Autism Speaks. Robison and other members of the autism community criticized Wright for proclaiming that families affected by autism lived in \"despair\" and in \"fear of the future\".\n\nSince 2012, Robison has been the Neurodiversity Scholar in Residence at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, VA. Robison is also co-chair of the campus neurodiversity committee, which is housed in the president's office of diversity. Robison co-teaches neurodiversity courses at the Williamsburg and Washington, D.C. campuses.\n\nSince 2012, Robison has served as a member of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee (IACC) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The committee is responsible for producing the \"Strategic Plan for Autism\" for the federal government, and the \"Annual Summary of Advances in Autism Research\". The committee reports to the secretary of Health and Human Services, who oversees the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) autism programs. The committee also coordinates autism efforts with other government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of Education and the Social Security Administration (SSA).\n\nWithin the IACC and other government committees, Robison is known for taking the position that people with autism should have the lead voice in defining autism research goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "742088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742088", "title": "John William Draper", "text": "John William Draper\n\nJohn William Draper (May 5, 1811 – January 4, 1882) was an English-born American scientist, philosopher, physician, chemist, historian and photographer. He is credited with producing the first clear photograph of a female face (1839–40) and the first detailed photograph of the moon in 1840. He was also the first president of the American Chemical Society (1876–77) and a founder of the New York University School of Medicine. One of Draper's books, the \"History of the Conflict between Religion and Science\", popularised the conflict thesis proposing intrinsic hostility in the relationship between religion and science. It was widely read and was translated into several languages. His son, Henry Draper, and his granddaughter, Antonia Maury, were astronomers, her younger sister, Carlotta Maury, was a paleontologist, his eldest son, John Christopher Draper, was a chemist, and son , was a meteorologist.\n\nJohn William Draper was born May 5, 1811, in St. Helens, Lancashire, England, to John Christopher Draper, a Wesleyan clergyman and Sarah (Ripley) Draper. He also had three sisters, Dorothy Catherine (August 6, 1807 – December 10, 1901), Elizabeth Johnson, and Sarah Ripley. On June 23, he was baptized by the Wesleyan minister Jabez Bunting. His father often needed to move the family due to serving various congregations throughout England. John Wm. Draper was home tutored until 1822, when he entered Woodhouse Grove School. He returned to home instruction (1826) prior to entering University College London in 1829. While at University College London, Draper studied chemistry under the direction of Edward Turner (chemist).\n\nOn September 13, 1831, John William Draper married Antonia Caetana de Paiva Pereira Gardner (c. 1814–1870), the daughter of Daniel Gardner, a court physician to John VI of Portugal and Charlotte of Spain. Antonia was born in Brazil after the royal family fled Portugal with Napoleon's invasion. There is dispute as to the identity of Antonia's mother. Around 1830, Antonia was sent with her brother Daniel to live with their aunt in London.\n\nFollowing his father's death in July 1831, John William's mother was urged to move with her children to the US state of Virginia. John William hoped to acquire a teaching position at a local Methodist college.\n\nIn 1832, the family settled in Mecklenburg County, Virginia, east of Christiansville (now Chase City). Although he arrived too late to obtain the prospective teaching position, John William established a laboratory in Christiansville. Here he conducted experiments and published eight papers before entering medical school. His sister, Dorothy Catherine Draper provided finances through teaching drawing and painting for his medical education. In March 1836, he graduated from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. That same year, he began teaching at Hampden–Sydney College in Virginia.\n\nIn 1837, Draper accepted an appointment to be head of chemistry in a proposed medical school at New York University, but sufficient funds were not available to go ahead with the project. In 1839, Draper was elected undergraduate professor of chemistry and botany at the university, and moved with his family to New York City . Once there he helped to found the New York University Medical School, acting as a professor there from 1840 to 1850, president of the school from 1850 to 1873, and as a professor of chemistry until 1881.\n\nDraper did important research in photochemistry, made portrait photography possible by his improvements (1839) on Louis Daguerre's process, and published a textbook on Chemistry (1846), textbook on Natural Philosophy (1847), textbook on Physiology (1866), and Scientific Memoirs (1878) on radiant energy.\nIn 1839–1840, Draper produced clear photographs, which at that time were regarded as the first life photographs of a human face. Draper took a series of pictures, with a 65-second exposure in sunlight. The first ones, of a female assistant whose face was covered with a thin layer of flour to increase contrast, were not preserved. Draper also photographed his sister, Dorothy Catherine Draper, and one of those pictures (see image) became known to the public via the letter which Draper sent to John Herschel in 1840. Several copies were made of this picture in the 19th century, and the photograph attached with Draper's letter was also likely a copy made by Draper himself.\n\nIn March 1840 Draper became the second person to produce photographs of an astronomical object, the Moon, considered the first astrophotographs. In 1843 he made daguerreotypes of the solar spectrum that revealed new infra-red and ultra violet lines. In 1850 he was making photomicrographs and engaged his then teenage son, Henry, into their production.\n\nDraper developed the proposition in 1842 that only light rays that are absorbed can produce chemical change. It came to be known as the Grotthuss–Draper law when his name was teamed with a prior but apparently unknown promulgator Theodor Grotthuss of the same idea in 1817.\n\nIn 1847 he published the observation that all solids glow red at about the same temperature, about 977 °F (798 K), which has come to be known as the Draper point.\n\nOn Saturday 30 May the 1860 Oxford evolution debate featured Draper's lecture on his paper \"On the Intellectual Development of Europe, considered with reference to the views of Mr. Darwin and others, that the progression of organisms is determined by law.\" Draper's presentation was an early example of applying a Darwinian metaphor of adaptation and environment to social and political studies, but was thought to be long and boring. The hall was crowded to hear Bishop Samuel Wilberforce's views on Charles Darwin's recent publication of \"On the Origin of Species\", and the occasion was a historically significant part of the reaction to Darwin's theory due to reports of Thomas Henry Huxley's response to Wilberforce.\n\nContributions to the discipline of history: Draper is well known also as the author of \"The History of the Intellectual Development of Europe\" (1862), applying the methods of physical science to history, a \"History of the American Civil War\" (3 vols., 1867–1870), and a \"History of the Conflict between Religion and Science\" (1874). The last book listed is among the most influential works on the conflict thesis, which takes its name from Draper's title. His book examined the relationship between religion and science, dismissing ideas of harmony and presenting the history of science as \"not a mere record of isolated discoveries; it is a narrative of the conflict of two contending powers, the expansive force of the human intellect on the one side, and the compression arising from traditionary faith and human interests on the other.\" After outlining the origins of science in ancient Greek philosophy, Draper presented the development of Christianity as leading to repression of science. His argument, aimed at his fellow Protestants, employed anti-Catholic rhetoric, but also said that these \"two rival divisions of the Christian church\" were \"in accord on one point: to tolerate no science except such as they considered agreeable to the Scriptures\", and both were liable to \"theological odium\". The book went through fifty printings in the United States alone, and was translated into ten languages.\n\nDraper served as the first president of the American Chemical Society in 1876.\nHe was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1877.\n\n\nHe died on January 4, 1882 at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, New York at the age of 70. The funeral was held at St Mark's Church in-the-Bowery in New York City. He was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery, Brooklyn, New York.\n\nIn 1975, Draper's house in Hastings was designated a National Historic Landmark.\n\nIn 1976, New York University founded the John W. Draper Interdisciplinary Master's Program in Humanities and Social Thought (Draper Program) in honor of his lifelong commitment to interdisciplinary study.\n\nIn 2001, Draper and the founding of the American Chemical Society were designated a National Historic Chemical Landmark at New York University.\n\nDraper wrote a number of books and articles for magazines and journals (Google Scholar). His books include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4029268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4029268", "title": "Karen National Liberation Army", "text": "Karen National Liberation Army\n\nThe Karen National Liberation Army (; abbreviated KNLA) is the military branch of the Karen National Union (KNU), which campaigns for the self-determination of the Karen people of Myanmar (formerly Burma). The KNLA has been fighting the Burmese government since 1949.\n\nThe KNLA was reported to have had a strength of roughly 5,000 soldiers in 2006, 6,000 in 2012 and 7,000 in 2014. The army is divided into seven brigades and a 'Special Force' reserved for special operations.\n\nAt the time of Burmese independence from the British in 1948, there was considerable tension between the Karen community and the Burmese majority. Some Karens sought independence while others attempted co-existence within Burma. The KNLA was previously called the Karen National Defence Organisation (KNDO). The KNDO was an armed organisation which was formed by the KNU in 1947 to defend Karen communities and interests. Most KNDO soldiers had previously served in the forces of British Burma.\n\nIn early 1949, the Burmese government arrested the Karen leader of the armed forces and replaced him with radical Burmese anti-Karen nationalist Ne Win. Continued attacks against Karen dominated townships around Rangoon and the arrest of Karen political leaders led the Karen national Union to declare armed struggle, and the world's longest running civil war began.\n\nEarly in the fighting, Karen forces overran much of northern Burma including towns such as Mandalay and established strong positions outside Rangoon at Insein Township. But lacking a port from which to receive military supplies, the Karen forces gradually withdrew to the southeast of Burma.\n\nIn 1976, the Karen National Union changed its policy on wanting an independent state, and joined a new alliance, the National Democratic Front. This alliance of armed ethnic political parties supported a federal union of Burma.\n\nIn 1994 a group of Buddhist soldiers in the KNLA, claiming that the KNLA was unfairly dominated by Christians, broke away from the KNLA to form a new force, the DKBA, which soon organised a cease-fire with the Burmese military government.\n\nIn 1995 KNLA lost Kawmoora and Myawaddy to the DKBA. This considerably reduced the KNLA's border trade taxation.\n\nA group calling itself the KNU/KNLA Peace Council, led by the former KNLA brigade 7 commander Brig-Gen Htay Maung (Htein Maung), broke away from the KNLA in February 2007, and organised a peace talk as well as a cease-fire agreement with the Burmese military government without the approval of the KNU central committee.\n\nOn 14 February 2008, Padoh Mahn Sha Lah Phan, the KNU secretary-general, was assassinated in Thailand.\n\nOn 13 May 2009, a senior Myanmar Army officer, Brig.-Gen. Kaung Myat, was killed by the KNLA. He had been the commander of the No. 5 Military Operations Command. The next month, on 19 June, DKBA soldiers began attacking the KNLA Brigade 7 headquarters, which they then captured on 23 June.\n\nDuring 2010, increasing numbers of Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA) soldiers defected to the KNLA, or fled to Thailand, following the announcement that the DKBA would be absorbed into the Burmese military government's Border Guard. The DKBA had previously been allied to, but distinct from, government forces.\n\nIn November 2010, following the general election of 2010, large parts of the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army are alleged to have mutinied and re-aligned themselves with the KNLA, resulting in the escalating conflict with junta troops. The two rebel armies have formed an alliance, in advance of a possible crackdown by the military government.\n\nThe KNLA, along with its parent organisation the KNU, signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) with the government of Myanmar on 15 October 2015, along with several other insurgent groups.\n\nIn September 2016, KNLA fighters began clashing with members of the Mon National Liberation Army (MNLA), the armed wing of the New Mon State Party (NMSP), in the Tanintharyi Region. Both the KNU and NMSP were signatories of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) at the time of the fighting. A temporary bilateral truce was reached between the two groups on 14 March 2018.\n\nA number of foreigners have gone to Myanmar to fight for the KNLA.\n\nDave Everett, a former Australian SAS soldier, fought for the KNLA and was later arrested in Australia for trying to steal money to fund the KNLA. Des Ball, Professor at ANU, has advised them on military strategy.\n\nThomas Bleming, an American, claims to have fought for the Karen and has written a book called \"War in Karen Country\".\n\nThree of the KNLA's French volunteers were killed in action fighting for the KNLA: Jean-Phillipe Courreges (killed 1985), Olivier Thiriat (killed 1989), and Guillaume Oillic (killed 1990).\n\n"}
{"id": "579381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579381", "title": "Karl Shuker", "text": "Karl Shuker\n\nKarl Shuker (born 9 December 1959) is a British zoologist, cryptozoologist and author. He currently lives in the Midlands, England, where he works as a zoological consultant and writer. A columnist in \"Fortean Times\" and contributor to various magazines, Shuker is also the editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Cryptozoology\", which began in November 2012.\n\nShuker received a B.Sc.(Hons) in zoology from the University of Leeds and a PhD in zoology and comparative physiology from the University of Birmingham.\nHe is a Scientific Fellow of the Zoological Society of London, a Fellow of the Royal Entomological Society, a consultant for the Centre for Fortean Zoology, and a member of the Society of Authors.\n\nSome of his larger works include \"Mystery Cats of the World\" (1989), \"The Lost Ark: New and Rediscovered Animals of the 20th Century\" (1993; expanded in 2002 as \"The New Zoo\"), and \"In Search of Prehistoric Survivors\" (1995), as well as two worldwide bestsellers – \"Dragons: A Natural History\" (1995; reissued in 2006), and \"The Unexplained\" (1996; reissued in 2002). Shuker also published \"Star Steeds and Other Dreams\", a book of poetry which appeared in 2009.\n\nAccording to Jonathan Downes, there are a number of little-known cryptids to which Shuker was the first cryptozoologist to bring widespread public attention. These include the Sri Lankan horned jackal and Devil Bird, Gambo the Gambian sea serpent, Goodenough Island mystery bird, New Guinea ropen and devil pig or gazeka, Scottish earth hound, Indonesian veo and horned cat, New Caledonian du, Irish dobhar-chú, Shatt al Arab venomous mystery fish, Zanzibar makalala, Ethiopian death bird, Zululand kondlo, Arctic North American waheela, Kellas cat, Mongolian Death Worm, Hungarian reedwolf, Fujian blue or Maltese tiger as shown on the cover of \"Mysteries of Planet Earth\" (1999), Welsh cenaprugwirion, bigfin squid, St Helena sirenian, Timor Sea ground shark, and crowing crested cobra.\n\nShuker pens two cryptozoological columns (\"Alien Zoo\" and \"The Lost Ark\") in \"Fortean Times\", and contributes regularly to \"Strange Magazine\", to \"Fate Magazine\", and to \"Paranormal Magazine\". In addition, he is the zoological consultant for \"Guinness World Records\".\n\nIn a 2012 interview, Shuker stated that three of the most important zoological discoveries of the twentieth century were the okapi, the coelacanth and the saola (or Vu Quang ox). Shuker's 2012 volume, \"The Encyclopaedia of New and Rediscovered Animals\" provides a detailed discussion of similar discoveries, including discoveries made as recently as 2011.\n\nIn November 2012, Shuker launched the \"Journal of Cryptozoology\". As the journal's founding editor-in-chief, Shuker has the stated goal of \"providing an outlet for cryptozoological research with a genuinely scientific approach,\" with the hope of elevating the field's reputation among the scientific community. Upon announcing plans to start the new journal, Shuker had expressed \"hope that cryptozoological researchers will submit papers to the journal that are totally worthy of publication in mainstream zoological journals but which may not be accepted by them simply because their subject is cryptozoological.\" Remarking that many newly discovered or rediscovered species begin as cryptids, Shuker believes that the field of cryptozoology is at a disadvantage, noting \"as soon as one of its subjects is confirmed to be real, it is no longer cryptozoological but zoological instead.\"\n\nShuker engages in what he describes as the scientific investigation of \"animals still awaiting formal zoological detection and description in the 21st century.\" However, Shuker is critical of investigators who set out to uncritically validate their preconceptions, stating that such activity is not serious cryptozoology.\n\nShuker's approach also sometimes leads to a more reserved position regarding cryptid claims. Having investigated the mystery of the chupacabra, Shuker noted in an interview with Benjamin Radford that the inconsistencies surrounding descriptions and accounts of the creature made it difficult to separate actual reports from folklore.\n\nBased on his interpretation of available accounts and evidence of the creature, Shuker hypothesized that the chupacabra itself might be \"a nonexistent composite\" resulting from accounts of \"different entities [...] all being lumped together.\"\n\nIn a 1996 review of Shuker's book \"Dragons: A Natural History\" in \"Natural History\", Richard Ellis discussed the \"impressive assortment of illustrations,\" as well as Shuker's coverage of dragon imagery and icons throughout history, but criticized a lack of focus on \"the 'real' animals held to be responsible for some of the dragon or sea serpent stories, such as the crocodile, the Komodo dragon, the African rock python, and the oarfish.\" Ellis found fault with coverage of \"aquatic serpent dragons\" such as the Loch Ness monster, lamenting that \"despite corroborated evidence that the famous Loch Ness monster's 'surgeon's photograph' was a hoax, [...] 'Nessie' is one of the contemporary 'dragons' in this book.\"\n\nIn June 1997 Shuker criticized \"Fortean Times\" publisher Mike Dash, who has described most reports of strange phenomena to be products of the imagination, to which Shuker stated, \"there are some intriguing pieces of evidence for the existence of a large underwater mammal in Loch Ness, not least the sonar soundings of 1972 which showed the presence of a 6-ft flipper.\" However, in a 1998 \"Sunday Times\" interview, Shuker suggested that the Loch Ness monster was losing traction, with more attention going toward large cat sightings, stating, \"They're more tangible,\" and that \"[a]ny scientist who these days decides to take the Loch Ness monster seriously knows that it will damage his reputation.\"\n\nReviewing Shuker's 2003 book \"The Beasts that Hide from Man\", Mark Bayless described the work as \"thought provoking and well researched,\" contrasting Shuker's work favorably against other cryptozoology texts as providing a \"scholarly, reader-friendly format,\" and addressing a wider range of cryptids that are not covered in comparable sources.\n\nA March 2013 review of the \"Journal of Cryptozoology\" in Brazilian journal \"Revista Piauí\" was generally positive regarding Shuker's efforts at a scientific approach to documenting cryptozoological findings, noting an article which put forth a giant oarfish as the most likely candidate to explain a recent sighting, but noted the professional challenges that cryptozoological researchers seeking to document findings may face, suggesting some are met with ridicule from colleagues due to a large portion of the cryptozoological community not being scientifically regarded.\n\nIn 2005, a new species of Loricifera was named \"Pliciloricus shukeri\", after Shuker.\n\nIn November 2001, Karl Shuker won £250,000 on \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4114915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4114915", "title": "Lehideux and Isorni v France", "text": "Lehideux and Isorni v France\n\nLehideux and Isorni v. France (case no. 55/1997/839/1045, application no. 24662/94, Publication 1998-VII, no. 92), was a case heard by the European Court of Human Rights on punishing statements praising collaborators. In a judgement handed down 23 September 1998, the court has held by fifteen votes against six that the conviction of applicants for their article in favour of Philippe Pétain was prescribed by law and pursued a legitimate aim, but wasn't necessary in a democratic society and therefore violated Article 10 (freedom of expression).\n\nBesides, the court has ruled that the case \"does not belong to the category of clearly established historical facts – such as the Holocaust – whose negation or revision would be removed from the protection of Article 10 by Article 17\" (Para. 47). In doing so the court has ruled that the protections in Article 17, the prohibition of abuse of rights, could restrict the right of free speech granted under Article 10.\n\nThis ruling has had a direct influence on International treaty law. The \"Additional Protocol to the Convention on cybercrime, concerning the criminalisation of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems\" requires participating States to criminalize the dissemination of racist and xenophobic material through computer systems, as well as of racist and xenophobic-motivated threats and insults. Article 8, Section 1 of the protocol specifically covers the denial of the Holocaust and other genocides recognised as such by other international courts set up since 1945 by relevant international legal instruments. The Council of Europe \"Explanatory Report\" of the protocol states \"European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that the denial or revision of “clearly established historical facts – such as the Holocaust – […] would be removed from the protection of Article 10 by Article 17” of the ECHR (see in this context the Lehideux and Isorni judgment of 23 September 1998)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11627089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11627089", "title": "Licinia", "text": "Licinia\n\nLicinia is the name used by ancient Roman women of the \"gens Licinia\", including\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18317701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18317701", "title": "List of U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School alumni", "text": "List of U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School alumni\n\nThe U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School (TPS) graduated the following notable alumni who made significant contributions to the aerospace field. The school's mission is to produce experimental test pilots, flight test engineers, and flight test navigators to lead and conduct test and evaluation of aerospace weapon systems. The school was established on September 9, 1944, as the Flight Test Training Unit at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (AFB) in Dayton, Ohio. To take advantage of the uncongested skies and superb flying weather, the school was moved on February 4, 1951, to its present location at Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert of Southern California. Edwards AFB is the home of the Air Force Flight Test Center and has been an integral part of flight testing for over fifty years.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1972, the Test Pilot School expanded its role to include astronaut training for military test pilots. Thirty-seven TPS graduates of this era were selected for the U.S. space program, and twenty-six went on to earn astronaut's wings by flying in the X-15, Gemini, Apollo, and Space Shuttle programs. Although the school no longer trains astronauts, many TPS graduates since 1972 have been selected by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for duties in space. The school encourages applications from civilians, personnel from other U.S. military services, and individuals from foreign countries. An exchange program allows selected students to attend other test pilot schools including the United States Naval Test Pilot School, the United Kingdom's Empire Test Pilots' School, and France's EPNER.\n\nThe following graduates of the USAF Test Pilot School are listed in the roles for which they are most notable. These roles include:\n\n Individual was killed in a work-related (aviation) accident.<br>\n\n Individual was killed in a work-related (aviation) accident.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "38333522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38333522", "title": "Mary Greyeyes", "text": "Mary Greyeyes\n\nMary Greyeyes Reid (November 14, 1920 – March 31, 2011) was a Canadian World War II servicewoman. A Cree from the Muskeg Lake Cree Nation in Saskatchewan, she was the first First Nations woman to enlist in the Canadian Armed Forces. After joining the Canadian Women’s Army Corps (CWAC) in 1942, she became the subject of an internationally famous army publicity photograph, and was sent overseas to serve in London, England, where she was introduced to public figures such as George VI and his daughter Elizabeth. Greyeyes remained in London until being discharged in 1946, after which she returned to Canada. \n\nMary Greyeyes was born November 14, 1920, in the Muskeg Lake Cree Nation reserve in Marcelin, Saskatchewan. She had ten siblings: six sisters and four brothers. She was raised by her widowed grandmother, Sarah Greyeyes.\n\nWhen she was five years old, Greyeyes was sent to the St. Michael's residential school in Duck Lake, Saskatchewan. The school only taught students up to grade 8, but Greyeyes managed to obtain additional tutoring in later years from a nun at the school, attending evening lessons while helping with cooking and cleaning during the day. She was known for her eagerness for knowledge.\n\nThe Muskeg Lake Cree Nation reserve had been heavily impacted by the Great Depression, and by the early 1940s there was little work for youth on the reserve. Greyeyes' favourite brother, David Greyeyes, left the reserve in search of work to help support the family, and in 1940, David enlisted in the Canadian Army. Greyeyes subsequently decided to do the same, seeing enlistment as a valuable chance to expand her own knowledge and experience. \n\nIn June 1942, Greyeyes travelled to Regina in order to take the test for enlistment. The Women's Royal Canadian Naval Service and the women's division of the Royal Canadian Air Force both required that new recruits be \"a British subject, of white race\", but recruitment for the Canadian Women's Army Corps (CWAC) was open to citizens of \"any of the United Nations\" and all races. Although Greyeyes worried that her grade 8 certification from the residential school would be inadequate, she passed the CWAC test and was accepted.\n\nUpon completing the test, Greyeyes became the first First Nations woman to join the Canadian Armed Forces. \n\nShortly after enlisting, Greyeyes became the subject of an army publicity photograph that showed her kneeling in her army uniform to receive a \"blessing\" from a man dressed in Plains Cree Chief regalia. \n\nDuring the war, Canadian MLA and public relations officer Louis LeBourdais often visited the training bases with photographers to take pictures of new CWAC recruits for newspaper publication. In June 1942, not long after she had enlisted, Greyeyes was approached and asked to participate in a photo-shoot to encourage more women to join the army. Harry Ball, a Cree man and World War I veteran from the Piapot First Nation, was convinced to pose for the photo in Plains Chief regalia. He was not an actual Chief himself at the time, though he would become one later, and had never met Greyeyes before. Ball had to cobble together a costume from borrowed items. In return for the photo-shoot, which was staged on Piapot land, Ball was paid $20, while Greyeyes received a free lunch and a new uniform.\n\nThe photograph appeared in the \"Winnipeg Tribune\" and the \"Regina Leader-Post\", and soon spread overseas to England, appearing in multiple British newspapers.\n\nFor decades, the photo would be identified only by a caption reading \"Unidentified Indian princess getting blessing from her chief and father to go fight in the war\". This sixteen-word caption contained no fewer than five inaccuracies. Greyeyes was not a \"princess,\" a title European settlers often bestowed upon young women related to chiefs. Ball was not \"her chief,\" since they were from different tribes. Ball was in fact not a \"chief\" at all. He was not her father. And there was no actual blessing being bestowed - only the hasty facsimile of one for the lens.\n\nIt was only around 1995 that the record was finally corrected, when Greyeyes's daughter-in-law, Melanie Fahlman Reid, learned that the photo hung in the Canadian War Museum with the incorrect caption. Reid, who had discussed the photo personally with Greyeyes, provided a more accurate explanation of the photograph from her mother-in-law's recollection.\n\nAlthough officially integrated as part of the Canadian Army, CWAC did not train its members for combat roles, instead training women to support the war efforts through cooking, laundering, and clerical work. Greyeyes was sent overseas to Aldershot, England, to work at the Aldershot Base Laundry. She disliked her position there, and requested a transfer. Her superior tried to sabotage her transfer by writing the false statement \"Does not speak English\" on Greyeyes' papers, but she was granted her transfer anyway and went to work as a cook in the war centre at London. The Canadian Military Headquarters, in London was at 2–4 Cockspur Street next to Canada House.\n\nAs a result of the \"Indian princess\" photo, Greyeyes became famous in London as \"the Indian\" who had joined the army in support of the Empire and its colonies, receiving letters from strangers offering to marry her. She was even introduced to King George VI, Queen Elizabeth, and Princess Elizabeth. Greyeyes was photographed with a number of public figures.\n\nAlthough Greyeyes sometimes encountered racism while in service – once resulting in her boarding outside the barracks – she found her overall army experience a positive one, later commenting that her wartime years had been \"the best days of her life\". She enjoyed the publicity she gained from being in the famous photo. Her love of learning was often noticed by others. One of her fellow corps members later recalled that Greyeyes was \"a lovely young woman ... who spent much of her spare time reading and studying literature.\"\n\nAccording to an interview with her daughter-in-law, Mary Greyeyes was approached by government officials for a second publicity photo towards the end of the war. It was an election year, and Indigenous people did not have the right to vote in Canadian elections at the time, but Indigenous veterans from World War II were being offered the choice to give up their treaty rights and Indian status in return for voting rights. Greyeyes was urged to visit a polling station and have her picture taken while voting. Instead of agreeing to the photo-shoot this time, she pointed out the unfairness of the voting laws:So Mary says to them, she says, \"Can my mom vote?\" And they said, \"No, she didn't fight in the war.\" She said, \"Well, what about my cousins over there, can they vote?\" And they said no. They said, \"C'mon Mary, you gotta come, we've got the photographer.\" And she said, \"All those years, I said nothing. Now I'm saying \"no\".\" It was only in 1960 that all First Nations people were granted the right to vote in Canadian federal elections.\n\nWhen the war ended, Greyeyes continued working in London until she was discharged in 1946. Afterwards, she returned to Canada and went back to the Muskeg Lake reserve to spend time with family. She met her future husband, Alexander Reid, in Winnipeg, Manitoba. They moved to Victoria and had two children. Greyeyes worked as a restaurant cook in Victoria, later finding employment as an industrial seamstress when the family moved to Vancouver in the 1960s.\n\nIn August 1994, Greyeyes attended a reunion of over 400 CWAC members in Vermilion, Alberta. She received a pension from the Department of Veterans Affairs for her wartime service. In 2003, in recognition that post-war benefits had been poorly managed and delivered to Indigenous servicemen and women, the Canadian government paid compensation packages to Greyeyes and other surviving Indigenous veterans.\n\nGreyeyes died on March 31, 2011, in Vancouver, British Columbia. She was 90 years old. Greyeyes was buried on the Muskeg Lake Cree Nation reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "178972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178972", "title": "Max Nordau", "text": "Max Nordau\n\nMax Simon Nordau (born \"Simon Maximilian Südfeld\"; July 29, 1849 – January 23, 1923), was a Zionist leader, physician, author, and social critic.\n\nHe was a co-founder of the World Zionist Organization together with Theodor Herzl, and president or vice president of several Zionist congresses.\n\nAs a social critic, he wrote \"The Conventional Lies of Our Civilisation\" (1883), \"Degeneration\" (1892), and \"Paradoxes\" (1896). Although not his most popular or successful work whilst alive, \"Degeneration\" is the book most often remembered and cited today.\n\nSimon (Simcha) Maximilian Südfeld (later Max Nordau) was born in Pest, Kingdom of Hungary, then part of the Austrian Empire. His father, Gabriel Südfeld, was a rabbi, but earned his livelihood as a Hebrew tutor. As an Orthodox Jew, Nordau attended a Jewish elementary school and earned a medical degree from the University of Budapest in 1872. He then traveled for six years, visiting the principal countries of Europe. He changed his name before going to Berlin in 1873. In 1878, he began the practice of medicine in Budapest. In 1880 he went to Paris. He worked in Paris as a correspondent for \"Die Neue Freie Presse\", and it was in Paris that he spent most of his life.\n\nBefore entering the university, he had begun his literary career at Budapest as contributor and dramatic critic for \"Der Zwischenact\". Subsequently, he was an editorial writer and correspondent for several other newspapers. His newspaper writings were collected and furnished the material for his earlier books. He was a disciple of Cesare Lombroso.\n\nNordau was an example of a fully assimilated and acculturated European Jew. Despite being raised religious, Nordau was an agnostic. He married a Christian woman of Danish origin. Despite his Hungarian background, he felt affiliated to German culture, writing in an autobiographical sketch, \"When I reached the age of fifteen, I left the Jewish way of life and the study of the Torah... Judaism remained a mere memory and since then I have always felt as a German and as a German only.\" Max Nordau was the father of painter Maxa Nordau (1897–1991).\n\nNordau's conversion to Zionism was eventually triggered by the Dreyfus Affair. Many Jews, amongst them Theodor Herzl, saw in the Dreyfus Affair evidence of the universality of antisemitism.\n\nNordau went on to play a major role in the World Zionist Organisation; indeed Nordau's relative fame certainly helped bring attention to the Zionist movement. He can be credited with giving the organisation a democratic character.\n\nWhen World War I broke out he, a native of Hungary, was accused of German sympathies. He denied the charge and afterward went to reside in Madrid. An attempt to assassinate him was made in the latter part of 1903.\n\nNordau's conversion to Zionism is in many ways typical of the rise of Zionism amongst Western European Jewry. The Dreyfus affair was central to Theodor Herzl's conviction that Zionism was now necessary. Herzl's views were formed during his time in France where he recognised the universality of antisemitism; the Dreyfus Affair cemented his belief in the failure of assimilation. Nordau also witnessed the Paris mob outside the École Militaire crying \"à morts les juifs!\".\n\nHis role of friend and advisor to Herzl, who was working as the correspondent for the Viennese \"Neue Freie Presse\", began here in Paris. This trial went beyond a miscarriage of justice and in Herzl's words \"contained the wish of the overwhelming majority in France, to damn a Jew, and in this one Jew, all Jews.\" Whether or not the antisemitism manifested in France during the Dreyfus Affair was indicative of the majority of the French or simply a very vocal minority is open to debate. However the very fact that such sentiment had manifested itself in France was particularly significant. This was the country often seen as the model of the modern enlightened age, that had given Europe the Great Revolution and beginnings of Jewish Emancipation.\n\nNordau's work as a critic of European civilisation and where it was heading certainly contributed to his eventual role in Zionism. One of the central tenets of Nordau's beliefs was evolution, in all things, and he concluded that emancipation was not born out of evolution. French rationalism of the 18th century, based on pure logic, demanded that all men be treated equally. Nordau perceived Jewish Emancipation the result of 'a regular equation: Every man is born with certain rights; the Jews are human beings, consequently the Jews are born to own the rights of man.' This Emancipation was written in the statute books of Europe, but contrasted with popular social consciousness. It was this which explained the apparent contradiction of equality before the law. Yet the existence of antisemitism, and in particular 'racial' antisemitism, was no longer based on old religious bigotry. Nordau cited England as an exception to this continental antisemitism that proved the rule. \"In England, Emancipation is a truth…It had already been completed in the heart before legislation expressly confirmed it.\" Only if Emancipation came from changes within society, as opposed to abstract ideas imposed upon society, could it be a reality. This rejection of the accepted idea of Emancipation was not based entirely on the Dreyfus Affair. It had manifested itself much earlier in \"Die Konventionellen Lügen der Kulturmenschheit\" reviling 'degenerate' and 'lunatic' antisemitism in \"Die Entartung.\"\n\nNordau also, at the 1898 Zionist Congress, coined the term \"muscular Judaism\" (\"muskel-Judenthum\") as a descriptor of a Jewish culture and religion which directed its adherents to reach for certain moral and corporeal ideals which, through discipline, agility and strength, would result in a stronger, more physically assured Jew who would outshine the long-held stereotype of the weak, intellectually sustained Jew. He would further explore the concept of the \"muscle Jew\" in a 1900 article of the Jewish Gymnastics Journal.\n\nNordau was central to the Zionist Congresses which played such a vital part in shaping what Zionism would become. Herzl had favoured the idea of a Jewish newspaper and an elitist \"Society of Jews\" to spread the ideas of Zionism. It was Nordau, convinced that Zionism had to at least appear democratic, despite the impossibility of representing all Jewish groups, who persuaded Herzl of the need for an assembly. This appearance of democracy certainly helped counter accusations that the \"Zionists represented no one but themselves.\" There would be eleven such Congresses in all. The first, which Nordau organised, was in Basle, 29–31 August 1897. His fame as an intellectual helped draw attention to the project. Indeed, the fact that Max Nordau, the trenchant essayist and journalist, was a Jew came as a revelation for many. Herzl obviously took centre stage, making the first speech at the Congress; Nordau followed him with an assessment of the Jewish condition in Europe. Nordau used statistics to paint a portrait of the dire straits of Eastern Jewry and also expressed his belief in the destiny of Jewish people as a democratic nation state, free of what he saw as the constraints of Emancipation.\n\nNordau's speeches to the World Zionist Congress reexamined the Jewish people, in particular stereotypes of the Jews. He fought against the tradition of seeing the Jews as merchants or business people, arguing that most modern financial innovations such as insurance had been invented by gentiles. He saw the Jewish people as having a unique gift for politics, a calling which they were unable to fulfil without their own nation-state. Whereas Herzl favoured the idea of an elite forming policy, Nordau insisted the Congress have a democratic nature of some sort, calling for votes on key topics. According to a 2004 article in the left-wing newspaper Haaretz, Nordau was at one time a staunch eugenicist.\n\nNordau died in Paris, France in 1923.\n\nNordau's major work \"Entartung\" (\"Degeneration\") is a moralistic attack on what he believed to be degenerate art, as well as a polemic against the effects of a range of the rising social phenomena of the period, such as rapid urbanization and its perceived effects on the human body.\n\nIn \"Réflexions sur la question gay\" (translated into English as \"Insult and the Making of the Gay Self\" ), Didier Eribon refers to a whole section in Nordau’s book targeting Oscar Wilde in aggressive terms: \"Wilde loves immorality, sin, and crime\". \nAccording to Eribon, the two volumes of \"Degeneration\" are centred around a description of the artistic and literary currents of an \"end-of-century\" that was leading society to \"ruin\". \nNordau attacks symbolists, mystics, Pre-Raphaelites, Wagnerism, Aestheticism, Decadentism. \nHuysmans and Zola are also targeted by him as \"neurotics\" and \"the worst kind of enemies of society\", against whom the latter had \"a duty to defend itself\". He sustained that society was \"at the highest of a serious intellectual epidemic, some kind of Black Death of degeneration and hysteria, such that it is only natural to hear a generalized, anguished questioning: ‘What is going to happen?’\" \nTherefore, he called upon judges, teachers, politicians, all those who wished to protect civilization, to organize repression and censorship. \nAs for psychiatrists, their role would be predominant in such academia of \"honest people\" in charge of condemning \"works that speculate on immorality\". Any artist whom this small cluster of \"the most qualified men of the people\" might dislike would be doomed, because in such case \"both the man and his work would be annihilated».\n\nNordau’s \"Degeneration\" is cited by William James in his lecture on Neurology and Religion at the beginning of \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". James mocks the author for his \"bulky book\" on the grounds that he exemplifies the then-current school of medical materialism, stating that Nordau \"has striven to impugn the value of works of genius in a wholesale way (such works of contemporary art, namely, as he himself is unable to enjoy, and they are many) by using medical arguments\".\n\nHe is currently the namesake of Kansas City Council's BBYO chapter Nordaunian AZA #22.In 1926 his remains were moved to Tel Aviv's Trumpeldor Cemetery. A major Tel Aviv street was named \"\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36925210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36925210", "title": "Mel Clarke", "text": "Mel Clarke\n\nMel Clarke (born on 2 September 1982) is an English competitive archer.\n\nClarke was born on 2 September 1982 in Norwich, Norfolk, England. \n\nSince the age of 11 she has used a wheelchair because of an arthritic condition. In 2003 Lyme disease caused her to lose sight in one eye.\n\nClarke first tried archery as a member of the Girl Guides in 1998. She took part in her first international competition in 2002.\n\nIn 2003, she became the first disabled archer from Europe to take part in an able-bodied event at international level, however it was during this event that she contracted Lyme disease. She lost sight in her aiming eye and had to remodel her shooting style to compensate, developing a stance with her head tilted back to make best use of her working eye.\n\nAt the 2008 Summer Paralympics, held in Beijing, China, she won a bronze medal in the women's individual compound event. Having been defeated by fellow British competitor Danielle Brown in the semifinal with a score of 113-105, Clarke beat Turkey's Gulbin Su in the bronze playoff to win the medal.\n\nIn 2009, she won a gold medal in the team event and a silver in the individual at the World Championships held in the Czech Republic. She was overwhelmed 114-107 by teammate and reigning Paralympic Champion Danielle Brown in the final of the individual event. \n\nIn the 2010 European Championships Clarke did not rank highly in the individual event, but won a silver medal with the women's compound team. Teammates Danielle Brown and Pippa Britton won the individual gold and silver respectively. Clarke also failed to make the team for the 2011 World Championships, beaten to the mark by Danielle Brown, Pippa Britton and Sarah Beamish.\n\nClarke was selected to compete for Great Britain at the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London, United Kingdom. She took part in the women's individual compound event and advanced to the final to face compatriot Brown. The first two sets were tied before Brown won the third and Clarke the fourth to force a fifth set. Clarke was left needing to score a ten with her final arrow to take the match to a shoot-off, however she was unable to capitalise on this and scored a seven meaning she won the silver medal.\n"}
{"id": "11791193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11791193", "title": "Mohamed Rabie Meftah", "text": "Mohamed Rabie Meftah\n\nMohamed Rabie Meftah (born 5 May 1985 in Tizi Ouzou) is an Algerian footballer. He currently plays for USM Alger in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1.\n\nMeftah comes from a family of footballers. His cousin Mahieddine Meftah was a former Algerian international and played for JS Kabylie and USM Alger. Another cousin, Rahim Meftah, was also a former player who played for the two clubs, as well as MO Constantine. Two other cousins, Chaâbane Meftah and Jugurtha Meftah are also footballers and currently play for JS Kabylie.\n\nA product of the JS Kabylie junior ranks, Meftah was promoted to the first team in 2004. After a couple of seasons, he became a regular starter, forcing Algerian international Slimane Raho to the bench, and eventually out the door. In 2008, he was made captain of the club, replacing midfielder Chérif Abdeslam.\n\nMeftah was chosen as the top player in the Algerian Championnat National for the 2008–09 season in a vote conducted by sports daily newspaper \"Maracana\".\n\nAt the end of the 2009–10 season, and despite the club qualifying for the group stage of the 2010 CAF Champions League, Meftah announced that was he leaving the club.\n\nOn June 20, 2010, Meftah signed a one-year contract with JSM Béjaïa.\n\nOn July 12, 2010, Meftah signed a two-year contract with USM Alger.\n\nOn August 15, 2006, Meftah made his debut for the Algerian National Team in a friendly against Gabon. Meftah has made five appearances in total for the Algerian National Team since his debut in 2006. He was selected as a reserve player by Rabah Saadane for the 2010 African Cup of Nations and 2010 FIFA World Cup but did not make the final squad both times.\n\nMeftah has also made four appearances for the Algeria A' team, the local team which participates in the African Championship of Nations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35913836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35913836", "title": "P. Chenchiah", "text": "P. Chenchiah\n\nPandipeddi Chenchiah (1886–1959), spelt also as Pandippedi Chenchiah, a second generation indigenous convert to Christianity, was a jurist, South Indian Christian theologian, and radical thinker of \"Rethinking Christianity in India\" group for Indianisation of Christianity. He published \"Rethinking Christianity in India\", as an Indian Christian answer to the Hendrik Kraemer's \"The Christian Message in a Non-Christian World\".\n\nHe along with his brother-in-law Vengal Chakkarai were the founders of \"Madras Christo Samaj\", influenced by \"Calcutta Christo Samaj\" founded by K.C. Banerjee and J.G. Shome—Both Madras Presidency and Calcutta were British East India Company provinces - later part of British Raj.\n\nChenchiah was born into a Hindu Brahmin home in Nellore, Andhra Pradesh (India), in 1886. He was the oldest of 12 children who grew up together. At the age of 15, Chenchiah converted to Christianity, along with his family and he was baptized by William Miller, a Scottish Missionary. Chenchiah went on to marry Matilda Raghaviah, and had 1 son and 4 daughters.\n\nChenchiah got his education from Madras Christian College that grew enormously under William Miller — Scottish missionary, principal. He received a degree in philosophy in 1906, where he received a Gold medal for \"proficiency in Philosophy.\" He then did his Bachelor of Laws degree (BL) in 1908, and a Master of Laws degree (ML) in 1913, from Madras Law College. He started his practice as an advocate of High Court of Madras, served as government servant in various offices. One source states that Chenchiah became the Judge of the district of Pudukottah, in the Madras Presidency (now Tamil Nadu), in 1928. Another source provides a later date, saying that Chenchiah became a Judge in 1935. According to V. Devasahayam, Chenchiah \"retired from that position after refusing to yield to Government pressure to pass a verdict in their favor.\" Chenchiah rejoined the Madras High Court, and became the Chief Examiner of the Law exams for the Madras and Andhra Universities.\n\nChenchiah was a \"voracious reader,\" and \"it was through this interest in philosophy and ethics that Chenchiah grew in prominence in Christian circles.\" He pursued \"active friendships with people of others faiths\" and was involved in several formal and informal inter-faith discussions.\n\nChenchiah \"wrote for two prominent Christian journals, \"Guardian\" and \"The Pilgrim\".\" Chenchiah served as the editor of \"The Pilgrim\" from 1949 to 1952. He was also on the editorial committee of the \"Christian Patriot\", an Indian Christian nationalistic organ, between 1916 and 1924. He was a member of Board of Directors of the Young Men's Christian Association(YMCA), Madras(\"present\" Chennai). He also served as a member of Executive committee of the National Missionary Society. He was one of the founders of \"Madras Christo Samaj\" in Madras Presidency, and has been actively associated with the Bangalore Continuation conference for the discussion association with problems of Indian Christian life. Apart from this, Chenchiah represented the South Indian Union Church at the International Missionary Conference at Jerusalem (1928) and was listed as a \"Judge\" at the International Missionary Conference at Tambaram (1938).\n\nHis most significant association was with the \"Madras Rethinking Group.\" Some have pointed out that it was William Miller, who played a major role in encouraging Chenchiah and his brother-in-law Vengal Chakkarai Chetti to rethink Christianity within the Indian context, possibly in an effort to integrate Hinduism and Christianity. The results of the Group were printed as a book called \"Rethinking Christianity in India.\" \n\nChenchiah died \"due to a short illness on April 19, 1959, in Madras.\"\n\nChenchiah was a prolific writer and wrote on several themes, but mainly about rethinking Christianity in the Indian context. His literary contributions are in the form of numerous articles he contributed to the periodicals, \"The Guardian,\" \"The Patriot,\" and two books he co-authored with others, \"Rethinking Christianity in India,\" and \"Āsramās Past and Present.\" Two of his most significant works are long reviews of two books. The first is his review written as an Indian reply to Hendrik Kraemer’s Barthian broadside, \"The Christian Message in a Non-Christian World,\" appeared in 1938 on the eve of the International Missionary Council’s world conference at Tambaram, Madras, South India. This review is included in the book \"Rethinking Christianity in India.\" His other major review of Marcus Ward’s \"Our Theological Task\" appeared in The Guardian 1947.\n\nChenchiah is one of the Christian theologians featured in Robin Boyd's \"Introduction to Indian Christian Theology.\" In it, Boyd states that Chenchiah was primarily Christological in his thinking and focussed upon the integration of Hinduism and Christianity.\n\nChenchiah spoke against the Western Christian theology and Church practice; inspired by the teachings of Aurobindo Ghose, Teilhard de Chardin, and Master C.V.V, and also basing his thoughts on New Testament, he developed a new interpretation of Christian doctrine. He was one of the founders of \"Christo Samaj of Madras\" in 1908 with an aim of coordinating the country, the church, and the mission to the supreme purpose of Jesus Christ. Its leaders, including V. Chakkarai, S.K. George, P.A. Thangasami, and others met every year in South India to discuss political, economical, and religious issues. The members of this group later came to be known as \"The Rethinking Group\".\n\nHe was instrumental in the formation of \"Rethinking Christianity Group in India\", after the publication of \"Rethinking Christianity in India\", in 1938, as Indian Christian's reply to Church-centered missiology of V.S. Azariah and Hendrik Kraemer's \"The Christian Message in a Non-Christian World\", a Barthian theology. He led the group of Indian Christians along with Vengal Chakkarai, and formed \"Rethinking Christianity Group\" in Madras that argued that Indian Christian community could not ignore the common Hindu heritage, its culture, and traditions.\n\nIn his article \"Rethinking Christianity in India\", Chenchiah countered Kraemer's understanding of religion. He believed there are two possible realities at the core of every religion; one, a pivotal personality like Rama, Krishna, Jesus, or Budha; two, the discovery of a truth or principle as the all-inclusive nature of Brahman. According to Chenchiah, \"A religion grows up around one or both of these realities, providing different means to comprehend the principle and follow and emulate the personality.\" Though Chenchaih agreed Kraemer's belief that religion is a human creation, both Chenchaih and Kraemer took different approaches to the study of religion; Kraemer on one hand, advocated missionary's approach—the missionary perceives Christianity as the one means to understand God and studies other religions either out of curiosity or to affirm his conviction of Christianity's superiority - Christian revelation is the only means to understand God, an approach pivotal to the Kraemer's missiology; Chenchaiah on the other hand, being a second generation convert, seems to had grown dissatisfied with what the Church had to offer in response to the Indian context in which he lived and through which he was trying to understand the faith. He, like other Indian indigenous converts, studied other religions to rediscover the message of Christianity. In addition, Chenchiah seems to had interest in comparing religions as systems and then showing what they have in common and where they differ.\n\nHe considered Christianity to have represented a new stage in the evolution of man; hence, with the power of the Holy Spirit, Christians can become one with Him, and so become a \"new creature.\" He advocated his entire life the policy of \"Christian policy\"—to live Christ is to preach Christ. According to him, human history has begun a new revolutionary chapter in Jesus—the fact of Christ is the birth of a new order in creation; Christianity is not primarily a doctrine of salvation but the announcement of the advent of a new creative order in Jesus—The Christian is a new creation - The Holy Spirit is the new cosmic energy - the kingdom of God is the new order - the children of God, the new type that Christ had inaugurated.\n\nHe was baptized along with his father, when he was a boy and raised as a Christian from infancy; however, he believed that the Christian faith must be open to receive new insights from Indian culture. He felt uneasy with Western concept of Church and advocated for a new indigenized Christ-ism from the gospels, using his Hindu perspective.\n\nCritics pointed Chenchiah for giving undue weightage to the epic figures like Krishna and Rama; in spite of, being mythic figures of Hinduism, yet not the core personalities in their tradition as Jesus in Christian tradition and Buddha in Buddhism tradition. Both Chenchiah and Kraemer differed the way Christian religion is differentiated with Christian faith. According to Chenchiah:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23005187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23005187", "title": "Paul Steven Miller", "text": "Paul Steven Miller\n\nPaul Steven Miller (May 4, 1961 – October 19, 2010) was the Henry M. Jackson Professor of Law at the University of Washington School of Law. He was a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for almost 10 years, and in 2009 he was chosen to serve as a special assistant to President Barack Obama. Miller, who had the genetic condition achondroplasia (a type of dwarfism) was tall. He was known as a leader in the disability rights movement, and an expert on anti-discrimination law and international disability rights.\n\nMiller was born in Flushing, New York and attended John Glenn High School in Elwood, New York. Miller attended the University of Pennsylvania, where he was active in the comedy troupe Mask and Wig, received his B.A. \"cum laude\" in 1983, and subsequently served as a university trustee. He went to Harvard Law School and received his J.D. in 1986.\n\nWhen Miller graduated from Harvard Law, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 had not yet been adopted and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act did not do enough; despite his academic credentials of graduating near the top of his class, Miller encountered considerable resistance in his efforts to find a job. Initially he had over 40 firms seeking his application, but later said that he received 45 rejection letters without a single callback. He repeatedly found that law firms would show interest in him, based on his resume, and then lose interest when they discovered his height. He said that one firm told him they were afraid clients would consider his employment a \"circus freak show\". A hiring committee told him, \"We're not going to hire you because we think our clients would think we are running a freak circus if they saw you.\" Miller eventually became a litigation associate at the Los Angeles law firm then known as Manatt, Phelps, Phillips & Kantor. (Miller's stint at Manatt Phelps has been identified as an inspiration for the character \"Hamilton Schuyler\", a dwarf lawyer portrayed by actor David Rappaport in the television series \"L.A. Law\".)\n\nIn 1990 Miller became director of litigation for the Western Law Center for Disability Rights at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. After the election of Bill Clinton as president in 1992, Miller worked for the transition team as a disability outreach and search manager. He subsequently held posts as deputy director of the U.S. Office of Consumer Affairs and White House liaison to the disability community.\n\nIn 1994 President Clinton appointed Miller to be a Commissioner of the EEOC, Miller served a total of ten years, one of the longest tenures of any commissioner in EEOC history. At the EEOC, he worked to develop an alternative dispute resolution program to resolve discrimination claims before litigation. In August 2004 Miller resigned to become a professor at the University of Washington (UW) Law School; his seat on the EEOC remained empty until January 2006, when it was finally filled by another noted disability activist, Christine M. Griffin. UW made Miller the Henry M. Jackson Professor of Law in January 2008. At the installation ceremony for this position, Miller's law school colleague Anna Mastroianni commented,\"Paul Miller may have been born a dwarf, but in reality he is a giant. We are all better for seeing a little further from the perch of his shoulders.\"\n\nIn his later career, Miller wrote about the interplay of disability rights and genetic science, writing papers with titles such as \"Is There a Pink Slip in My Genes?\" and \"Avoiding Genetic Genocide\". Among other issues, Miller discussed the potential for people to lose their jobs because of the disclosure of their future health risks. Dr. Francis S. Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health and leader of the Human Genome Project, noted that Miller's \"persistence paid off: after more than a decade of frustration, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act was finally signed into law in 2008. Paul was one of its biggest heroes.\"\n\nIn 2007 Miller was recruited to join then Senator Obama's Disability Policy Committee by his long-time friend and protege, Rebecca Cokley. In February 2009, Miller was appointed as a special assistant to President Barack Obama, with responsibility for managing political appointments at the U.S. Department of Justice and other positions in the new administration, as well as for positions relating to disability programs. \n\nMiller suffered from tumors in his arm during the last decade of his life. An amputation did not prevent the cancer's recurrence, and he died on October 19, 2010.\n\nEarly in his career Miller had become a leader of the Little People of America. In 2002 this organization presented Miller with its annual Award for Promoting Awareness of Individuals with Dwarfism.\n\nMiller was a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, Parsons Visiting Scholar at the University of Sydney Faculty of Law, and a Fellow of the British-American Project. In 2003 Miller was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by City University of New York School of Law.\n\nMiller married Jennifer Coletti Mechem, a disability policy coordinator, in 1997; They had two children, Naomi and Delia, who were 10 and 5 when their father died.\n\n"}
{"id": "19230475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230475", "title": "Quetzalcoatl", "text": "Quetzalcoatl\n\nQuetzalcoatl (; ; , in honorific form: \"Quetzalcohuātzin\", ) is a deity in Mesoamerican culture and literature whose name comes from the Nahuatl language and means \"feathered serpent\" or \"Quetzal-feathered Serpent\". The worship of a Feathered Serpent is first documented in Teotihuacan in the first century BC or first century AD. That period lies within the Late Preclassic to Early Classic period (400 BC – 600 AD) of Mesoamerican chronology, and veneration of the figure appears to have spread throughout Mesoamerica by the Late Classic period (600–900 AD).\n\nIn the Postclassic period (900–1519 AD), the worship of the feathered serpent deity was based in the primary Mexican religious center of Cholula. It is in this period that the deity is known to have been named \"Quetzalcoatl\" by his Nahua followers. In the Maya area, he was approximately equivalent to Kukulkan and Gukumatz, names that also roughly translate as \"feathered serpent\" in different Mayan languages.\n\nQuetzalcoatl, the Aztec god of wind, air, and learning, wears around his neck the \"wind breastplate\" \"ehecailacocozcatl\", \"the spirally voluted wind jewel\" made of a conch shell. This talisman was a conch shell cut at the cross-section and was likely worn as a necklace by religious rulers, as they have been discovered in burials in archaeological sites throughout Mesoamerica, and potentially symbolized patterns witnessed in hurricanes, dust devils, seashells, and whirlpools, which were elemental forces that had significance in Aztec mythology. In codex drawings, Quetzalcoatl and Xolotl were both pictured as wearing an \"ehecailacocozcatl\" around each of their necks. There has additionally been at least one major cache of offerings with knives and idols adorned with the symbols of more than one god, some of which were adorned with wind jewels.\n\nIn the era following the 16th-century Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, a number of sources were written that conflate Quetzalcoatl with Ce Acatl Topiltzin, a ruler of the mythico-historic city of Tollan. It is a matter of much debate among historians to which degree, or whether at all, these narratives about this legendary Toltec ruler describe historical events. Furthermore, early Spanish sources written by clerics tend to identify the god-ruler Quetzalcoatl of these narratives with either Hernán Cortés or Thomas the Apostle—an identification which is also a source of a diversity of opinions about the nature of Quetzalcoatl.\n\nAmong the Aztecs, whose beliefs are the best-documented in the historical sources, Quetzalcoatl was related to gods of the wind, of the planet Venus, of the dawn, of merchants and of arts, crafts and knowledge. He was also the patron god of the Aztec priesthood, of learning and knowledge. Quetzalcoatl was one of several important gods in the Aztec pantheon, along with the gods Tlaloc, Tezcatlipoca and Huitzilopochtli. Two other gods represented by the planet Venus are Quetzalcoatl's ally Tlaloc who is the god of rain, and Quetzalcoatl's twin and psychopomp, who is named Xolotl.\n\nAnimals thought to represent Quetzalcoatl include resplendent quetzals, rattlesnakes (\"coatl\" meaning serpent in Nahuatl), crows, and macaws. In his form as Ehecatl he is the wind, and is represented by spider monkeys, ducks, and the wind itself. In his form as the morning star, Venus, he is also depicted as a harpy eagle. In Mazatec legends, the astrologer deity Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli, who is also represented by Venus, bears a close relationship with Quetzalcoatl.\n\nA feathered serpent deity has been worshiped by many different ethnopolitical groups in Mesoamerican history. The existence of such worship can be seen through studies of the iconography of different Mesoamerican cultures, in which serpent motifs are frequent. On the basis of the different symbolic systems used in portrayals of the feathered serpent deity in different cultures and periods, scholars have interpreted the religious and symbolic meaning of the feathered serpent deity in Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nThe earliest iconographic depiction of the deity is believed to be found on Stela 19 at the Olmec site of La Venta, depicting a serpent rising up behind a person probably engaged in a shamanic ritual. This depiction is believed to have been made around 900 BC. Although probably not exactly a depiction of the same feathered serpent deity worshipped in classic and post-classic periods, it shows the continuity of symbolism of feathered snakes in Mesoamerica from the formative period and on, for example in comparison to the Mayan Vision Serpent shown below.\nThe first culture to use the symbol of a feathered serpent as an important religious and political symbol was Teotihuacan. At temples such as the aptly named \"Quetzalcoatl temple\" in the Ciudadela complex, feathered serpents figure prominently and alternate with a different kind of serpent head. The earliest depictions of the feathered serpent deity were fully zoomorphic, depicting the serpent as an actual snake, but already among the Classic Maya, the deity began acquiring human features.\n\nIn the iconography of the classic period, Maya serpent imagery is also prevalent: a snake is often seen as the embodiment of the sky itself, and a vision serpent is a shamanic helper presenting Maya kings with visions of the underworld.\n\nThe archaeological record shows that after the fall of Teotihuacan that marked the beginning of the epi-classic period in Mesoamerican chronology around 600 AD, the cult of the feathered serpent spread to the new religious and political centers in central Mexico, centers such as Xochicalco, Cacaxtla and Cholula. Feathered serpent iconography is prominent at all of these sites. Cholula is known to have remained the most important center of worship to Quetzalcoatl, the Aztec/Nahua version of the feathered serpent deity, in the post-classic period.\n\nDuring the epi-classic period, a dramatic spread of feathered serpent iconography is evidenced throughout Mesoamerica, and during this period begins to figure prominently at sites such as Chichén Itzá, El Tajín, and throughout the Maya area. Colonial documentary sources from the Maya area frequently speak of the arrival of foreigners from the central Mexican plateau, often led by a man whose name translates as \"Feathered Serpent.\" It has been suggested that these stories recall the spread of the feathered serpent cult in the epi-classic and early post-classic periods.\n\nRepresented as the plumed serpent, Quetzalcoatl was also manifest in the wind, one of the most powerful forces of nature, and this relationship was captured in a text in the Nahuatl language:\n\nQuetzalcoatl; yn ehecatl ynteiacancauh yntlachpancauh in tlaloque, yn aoaque, yn qujqujiauhti. Auh yn jquac molhuja eheca, mjtoa: teuhtli quaqualaca, ycoioca, tetecujca, tlatlaiooa, tlatlapitza, tlatlatzinj, motlatlaueltia.\n\nQuetzalcoatl—he was the wind, the guide and road sweeper of the rain gods, of the masters of the water, of those who brought rain. And when the wind rose, when the dust rumbled, and it crack and there was a great din, became it became dark and the wind blew in many directions, and it thundered; then it was said: \"[Quetzalcoatl] is wrathful.\"\n\nQuetzalcoatl was also linked to rulership and priestly office; additionally, among the Toltec, it was used as a military title and emblem.\n\nIn the post-classic Nahua civilization of central Mexico (Aztec), the worship of Quetzalcoatl was ubiquitous. Cult worship may have involved the ingestion of hallucinogenic mushrooms (psilocybes), considered sacred. The most important center was Cholula where the world's largest pyramid was dedicated to his worship. In Aztec culture, depictions of Quetzalcoatl were fully anthropomorphic. Quetzalcoatl was associated with the wind god Ehecatl and is often depicted with his insignia: a beak-like mask.\n\nOn the basis of the Teotihuacan iconographical depictions of the feathered serpent, archaeologist Karl Taube has argued that the feathered serpent was a symbol of fertility and internal political structures contrasting with the War Serpent symbolizing the outwards military expansion of the Teotihuacan empire. Historian Enrique Florescano also analyzing Teotihuacan iconography argues that the Feathered Serpent was part of a triad of agricultural deities: the Goddess of the Cave symbolizing motherhood, reproduction and life, Tlaloc, god of rain, lightning and thunder and the feathered serpent, god of vegetational renewal. The feathered serpent was furthermore connected to the planet Venus because of this planet's importance as a sign of the beginning of the rainy season. To both Teotihuacan and Mayan cultures, Venus was in turn also symbolically connected with warfare.\n\nWhile not usually feathered, classic Maya serpent iconography seems related to the belief in a sky-, Venus-, creator-, war- and fertility-related serpent deity. In the example from Yaxchilan, the Vision Serpent has the human face of the young maize god, further suggesting a connection to fertility and vegetational renewal; the Mayan Young Maize god was also connected to Venus.\n\nIn Xochicalco, depictions of the feathered serpent are accompanied by the image of a seated, armed ruler and the hieroglyph for the day sign 9 Wind. The date 9 Wind is known to be associated with fertility, Venus and war among the Maya and frequently occurs in relation to Quetzalcoatl in other Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nOn the basis of the iconography of the feathered serpent deity at sites such as Teotihuacan, Xochicalco, Chichén Itzá, Tula and Tenochtitlan combined with certain ethnohistorical sources, historian David Carrasco has argued that the preeminent function of the feathered serpent deity throughout Mesoamerican history was the patron deity of the Urban center, a god of culture and civilization.\n\nTo the Aztecs, Quetzalcoatl was, as his name indicates, a feathered serpent, a flying reptile (much like a dragon), who was a boundary-maker (and transgressor) between earth and sky. He was a creator deity having contributed essentially to the creation of Mankind. He also had anthropomorphic forms, for example in his aspects as Ehecatl the wind god. Among the Aztecs, the name Quetzalcoatl was also a priestly title, as the two most important priests of the Aztec Templo Mayor were called \"Quetzalcoatl Tlamacazqui\". In the Aztec ritual calendar, different deities were associated with the cycle-of-year names: Quetzalcoatl was tied to the year Ce Acatl (One Reed), which correlates to the year 1519.\n\nThe exact significance and attributes of Quetzalcoatl varied somewhat between civilizations and through history. There are several stories about the birth of Quetzalcoatl. In a version of the myth, Quetzalcoatl was born by a virgin named Chimalman, to whom the god Onteol appeared in a dream. In another story, the virgin Chimalman conceived Quetzalcoatl swallowing an emerald. A third story narrates that Chimalman was hit in the womb by an arrow shot by Mixcoatl and nine months later she gave birth to a child which was called Quetzalcoatl. A fourth story narrates that Quetzalcoatl was born from Coatlicue, who already had four hundred children who formed the stars of the Milky Way.\n\nAccording to another version of the myth, Quetzalcoatl is one of the four sons of Ometecuhtli and Omecihuatl, the four Tezcatlipocas, each of whom presides over one of the four cardinal directions. Over the West presides the White Tezcatlipoca, Quetzalcoatl, the god of light, justice, mercy and wind. Over the South presides the Blue Tezcatlipoca, Huitzilopochtli, the god of war. Over the East presides the Red Tezcatlipoca, Xipe Totec, the god of gold, farming and springtime. And over the North presides the Black Tezcatlipoca, known by no other name than Tezcatlipoca, the god of judgment, night, deceit, sorcery and the Earth. Quetzalcoatl was often considered the god of the morning star, and his twin brother Xolotl was the evening star (Venus). As the morning star, he was known by the title \"Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli\", meaning \"lord of the star of the dawn.\" He was known as the inventor of books and the calendar, the giver of maize (corn) to mankind, and sometimes as a symbol of death and resurrection. Quetzalcoatl was also the patron of the priests and the title of the twin Aztec high priests. Some legends describe him as opposed to human sacrifice while others describe him practicing it.\n\nMost Mesoamerican beliefs included cycles of suns. Often our current time was considered the fifth sun, the previous four having been destroyed by flood, fire and the like. Quetzalcoatl went to Mictlan, the underworld, and created fifth-world mankind from the bones of the previous races (with the help of Cihuacoatl), using his own blood, from a wound he inflicted on his earlobes, calves, tongue, and penis, to imbue the bones with new life.\n\nIt is also suggested that he was a son of Xochiquetzal and Mixcoatl.\n\nIn the Codex Chimalpopoca, it is said Quetzalcoatl was coerced by Tezcatlipoca into becoming drunk on pulque, cavorting with his sister, Quetzalpetlatl, a celibate priestess, and neglecting their religious duties. (Many academics conclude this passage implies incest.) The next morning, Quetzalcoatl, feeling shame and regret, had his servants build him a stone chest, adorn him in turquoise, and then, laying in the chest, set himself on fire. His ashes rose into the sky and then his heart followed, becoming the morning star (see Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli).\n\nSince the sixteenth century, it has been widely held that the Aztec Emperor Moctezuma II initially believed the landing of Hernán Cortés in 1519 to be Quetzalcoatl's return. This view has been questioned by ethno-historians who argue that the Quetzalcoatl-Cortés connection is not found in any document that was created independently of post-Conquest Spanish influence, and that there is little proof of a pre-Hispanic belief in Quetzalcoatl's return. Most documents expounding this theory are of entirely Spanish origin, such as Cortés's letters to Charles V of Spain, in which Cortés goes to great pains to present the naive gullibility of the Aztecs in general as a great aid in his conquest of Mexico.\n\nMuch of the idea of Cortés being seen as a deity can be traced back to the Florentine Codex written down some 50 years after the conquest. In the Codex's description of the first meeting between Moctezuma and Cortés, the Aztec ruler is described as giving a prepared speech in classical oratorial Nahuatl, a speech which, as described in the codex written by the Franciscan Bernardino de Sahagún and his Tlatelolcan informants, included such prostrate declarations of divine or near-divine admiration as:\n\nand:\n\nSubtleties in, and an imperfect scholarly understanding of, high Nahuatl rhetorical style make the exact intent of these comments tricky to ascertain, but Restall argues that Moctezuma's politely offering his throne to Cortés (if indeed he did ever give the speech as reported) may well have been meant as the exact opposite of what it was taken to mean: politeness in Aztec culture was a way to assert dominance and show superiority. This speech, which has been widely referred to, has been a factor in the widespread belief that Moctezuma was addressing Cortés as the returning god Quetzalcoatl.\n\nOther parties have also promulgated the idea that the Mesoamericans believed the conquistadors, and in particular Cortés, to be awaited gods: most notably the historians of the Franciscan order such as Fray Gerónimo de Mendieta. Some Franciscans at this time held millennarian beliefs and some of them believed that Cortés' coming to the New World ushered in the final era of evangelization before the coming of the millennium. Franciscans such as Toribio de Benavente \"Motolinia\" saw elements of Christianity in the precolumbian religions and therefore believed that Mesoamerica had been evangelized before, possibly by St. Thomas whom legend had it had \"gone to preach beyond the Ganges\". Franciscans then equated the original Quetzalcoatl with St. Thomas and imagined that the Indians had long-awaited his return to take part once again in God's kingdom. Historian Matthew Restall concludes that:\n\nSome scholarship maintains the view that the Aztec Empire's fall may be attributed in part to the belief in Cortés as the returning Quetzalcoatl, notably in works by David Carrasco (1982), H. B. Nicholson (2001 (1957)) and John Pohl (2016). However, a majority of Mesoamericanist scholars such as Matthew Restall (2003), James Lockhart (1994), Susan D. Gillespie (1989), Camilla Townsend (2003a, 2003b), Louise Burkhart, Michel Graulich and Michael E. Smith (2001) among others, consider the \"Quetzalcoatl/Cortés myth\" as one of many myths about the Spanish conquest which have risen in the early post-conquest period. It should be furthered noted that the idea that Cortes or Spaniards as a group or specific other individuals were a specific god (e.g., Quetzalcoatl) or gods in general is not present among any other Mesoamerican peoples (Zapotecs, Mixtecs, Maya, Quiche, Tzeltal, Tzotzil, etc.).\nThere is no question that the legend of Quetzalcoatl played a significant role in the colonial period. However, this legend likely has a foundation in events that took place immediately prior to the arrival of the Spaniards. A 2012 exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Dallas Museum of Art, \"The Children of the Plumed Serpent: the Legacy of Quetzalcoatl in Ancient Mexico,\" demonstrated the existence of a powerful confederacy of Eastern Nahuas, Mixtecs and Zapotecs, along with the peoples they dominated throughout southern Mexico between 1200–1600 (Pohl, Fields, and Lyall 2012, Harvey 2012, Pohl 2003). They maintained a major pilgrimage and commercial center at Cholula, Puebla which the Spaniards compared to both Rome and Mecca because the cult of the god united its constituents through a field of common social, political, and religious values without dominating them militarily. This confederacy engaged in almost seventy-five years of nearly continuous conflict with the Aztec Empire of the Triple Alliance until the arrival of Cortés. Members of this confederacy from Tlaxcala, Puebla, and Oaxaca provided the Spaniards with the army that first reclaimed the city of Cholula from its pro-Aztec ruling faction, and ultimately defeated the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City). The Tlaxcalteca, along with other city-states across the Plain of Puebla, then supplied the auxiliary and logistical support for the conquests of Guatemala and West Mexico while Mixtec and Zapotec caciques (Colonial indigenous rulers) gained monopolies in the overland transport of Manila galleon trade through Mexico, and formed highly lucrative relationships with the Dominican order in the new Spanish imperial world economic system that explains so much of the enduring legacy of indigenous life-ways that characterize southern Mexico and explain the popularity of the Quetzalcoatl legends that continued through the colonial period to the present day.\n\nSome Mormons believe that Quetzalcoatl was historically Jesus Christ, but believe His name and the details of the event were gradually lost over time. According to the Book of Mormon, the resurrected Christ came down from the clouds and visited the people of the American continent, shortly after his resurrection. Quetzalcoatl is not a religious symbol in the Latter-day Saint faith, and is not taught as such, nor is it in their doctrine. One President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, John Taylor, wrote:\n\"The story of the life of the Mexican divinity, Quetzalcoatl, closely resembles that of the Savior; so closely, indeed, that we can come to no other conclusion than that Quetzalcoatl and Christ are the same being. But the history of the former has been handed down to us through an impure Lamanitish source, which has sadly disfigured and perverted the original incidents and teachings of the Savior's life and ministry.\" (Mediation and Atonement, p. 194.)\"\nLatter-day Saint author Brant Gardner, after investigating the link between Quetzalcoatl and Jesus, concluded that the association amounts to nothing more than folklore. In a 1986 paper for \"Sunstone\", he noted that during the Spanish Conquest, the Native Americans and the Catholic priests who sympathized with them felt pressure to link Native American beliefs with Christianity, thus making the Native Americans seem more human and less savage. Over time, Quetzalcoatl's appearance, clothing, malevolent nature, and status among the gods were reshaped to fit a more Christian framework.\n\nQuetzalcoatl was fictionalized in the 1982 film \"Q\" as a monster that terrorizes New York City. The deity has been featured as a character in the manga and anime series \"Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's\" , \"Beyblade\" and \"Miss Kobayashi's Dragon Maid\" (the latter depicting Quetzalcoatl as a female dragon deity); the Persona video game franchise; the video games \"Fate/Grand Order\", \"Final Fantasy VIII\", \"Final Fantasy XV\", \"Smite\" (as an alternate costume for his Mayan counterpart, Kukulkan), and \"Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine\"; and in the last of \"The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel\" books. Quetzelcoatl also appeared on (Season 3) of the \"Animal Planet\" mockumentary \"Lost Tapes\" in an episode entitled \"Q the Serpent God\".\nIn 1971 Tony Shearer published a book called \"Lord of the dawn: Quetzalcoatl and the Tree of Life\", inspiring New Age followers to visit Chichen Itza at the summer solstice when dragon-shaped shadows are cast by the Kulkulcan pyramid.\n\n"}
{"id": "46707070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46707070", "title": "Ronald H. Fritze", "text": "Ronald H. Fritze\n\nRonald H. Fritze (born 1951) is an American encyclopedist, historian, and writer known for his criticism of pseudohistoric ideas.\n\nFritze earned his BA in history at Concordia College in 1974. He obtained a master's degree from Louisiana State University and a PhD from Cambridge University in 1981. He has worked at Lamar University in Beaumont and the University of Central Arkansas in 2001 as chair of the history department. He is currently Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Athens State University.\n\nFritze is the author of \"Invented Knowledge: False History, Fake Science, and Pseudo-religions\" (2009) a book which critically examines the pseudohistoric claims of Martin Bernal's \"Black Athena\", Erich von Däniken, Immanuel Velikovsky, Atlantis, Christian Identity, Nation of Islam, and fringe related pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact theories. According to Fritze pseudohistory is a \"charlatan's playground\" targeting those too \"willing to suspend disbelief\" and slip into an \"abyss of fantasy\". Fritze considers such pseudohistoric ideas to be irrational and misleading the public. The book has received positive reviews.\n\n\nAncient astronauts\nKenneth Feder\n\n"}
{"id": "41905827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41905827", "title": "Rory Enrique Conde", "text": "Rory Enrique Conde\n\nRory Enrique Conde (born June 14, 1965), a.k.a. \"The Tamiami Trail Strangler\", is a Colombian serial killer who killed 6 prostitutes in Florida. He was sentenced to death on March 7, 2000.\n\nRory Conde was born on June 14, 1965 in Barranquilla, Colombia. His mother died of tetanus when he was six years old. Conde and his sister Nelly were then raised by their paternal grandmother. When Conde was twelve, they moved to Miami to live with Conde's father, Gustavo Conde. Conde did not like his father and thought he was emotionally abusive. Conde's future wife, Carla Conde, thought that Rory's outbursts were a result of sexual abuse at the hands of his father.\n\nRory and Carla were married in 1987, when he was 21 and she was 15, eventually having two kids. Rory was an abusive husband and had a stint in jail in 1992 as a result of a fight with Carla over Rory bringing girls over. They later moved to a condo off the Tamiami Trail. They stopped having sex and Rory would disappear at night. In July, 1994 Carla moved out to her parents' house with the two kids. Rory threatened to kill her if she dated anyone else.\n\nOn September 17, 1994, Conde killed cross dressing male prostitute, Lazaro Comesana. He later said that he killed Lazaro after finding out he was a man during sex.\n\nConde then killed two more prostitutes, Elisa Martinez on October 8 and Charity Nava on November 20. On the back and buttocks of Charity he wrote \"THIRD! (A happy face dotting the 'i') I will call Dwight Chan 10. (A reference to WPLG anchor Dwight Lauderdale) [See] if you can catch me. (Using two eyes instead of the word 'See')\"\n\nConde then killed three more prostitutes: Wanda Crawford on November 25, Necole Schneider on December 17, and Rhonda Dunn on January 12, 1995.\n\nHe strangled his victims to death and would have anal sex with the corpses afterward.\n\nConde was arrested on June 19, 1995 when Gloria Maestre, a prostitute he had bound head to toe, made enough noise to attract neighbors while Conde was in court for a shoplifting charge.\n\nHe was sentenced to death on March 7, 2000 for the murder of Rhonda Dunn. He later pleaded guilty to the murder of five others and was sentenced to five consecutive life terms without parole on April 5, 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "1910192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1910192", "title": "Shaima Rezayee", "text": "Shaima Rezayee\n\nShaima Rezayee () (1981 – May 18, 2005) was a TV presenter on the Afghan music television channel, Tolo TV. Rezayee was a rising star in the post-Taliban ruled Afghanistan, specially very popular among the youth. She was also the first female western-style music presenter to appear on television in Afghanistan's conservative history.\n\nIn March 2005, Shaima Rezayee lost her job on the popular show \"Hop\", an Afghan programme with content similar to the global music video channel MTV, after the programme was criticised by local Islamic clerics. One of the most outspoken critics of \"Hop\" was Fazl Hadi Shinwari, a chief justice of the Afghan Supreme Court.\n\nHe was quoted as saying \"It [Hop] will corrupt our society, culture and most importantly, it will take our people away from Islam and destroy our country... This will make our people accept another culture, and make our country a laughing stock around the world.\"\n\nRezayee herself was a central focus of the criticism, mainly for her western style of dress. This was believed by the religious authorities to be 'corrupting' the youth of Afghanistan. The only female presenter on the show, Rezayee with her family had fled her home in Kabul to neighboring Pakistan during the five years that the Taliban controlled Kabul.\n\nOn 18 May 2005, Rezayee was shot dead at her home in Char Qala, a neighbourhood of Kabul. She was the first journalist to be killed in Afghanistan since the end of the Afghan civil war in 2001. Press freedom organisation Reporters sans frontières and local authorities believe her killing was linked to her work as a presenter on Tolo TV. Tolo TV is the first private TV station established in Afghanistan. Previously, there has always been only one TV station in Kabul which was run and controlled by the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "40732699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40732699", "title": "Spencer Cox (activist)", "text": "Spencer Cox (activist)\n\nPatrick Spencer Cox (March 10, 1968 – December 18, 2012) was an American HIV/AIDS activist. He was involved in ACT UP New York and the Treatment Action Group during the height of the AIDS Crisis in New York. He helped facilitate the production of protease inhibitors, which revolutionized AIDS care in the 1990s.\n\nCox was born in Atlanta, Georgia. He came out as gay while he was in high school. He attended Bennington College for three years, where he studied theater and literature. He moved to New York City in 1989, to pursue acting. He joined the ACT UP that year and was soon thereafter diagnosed with HIV.\n\nIn 1992, Cox joined with other ACT UP members to form the Treatment Action Group, which worked to further treatment advances in HIV. He worked with the Food and Drug Administration's Anti-Viral Advisory Committee to hasten the approval time for new HIV medications, including the new drug class of protease inhibitors. Cox designed a clinical trial to examine the effectiveness of ritonavir, which led to its approval, which had a dramatic effect on the treatment of HIV.\n\nCox founded the Medius Institute for Gay Men's Health in 2006, concerned with issues faced by gay men, including loneliness, depression and substance abuse. With a lack of funding, Cox abandoned the effort and began using methamphetamine. He moved back to Atlanta to recuperate. He returned to New York in 2012, and appeared in the documentary film \"How to Survive a Plague\". He also wrote for \"POZ\".\n\nCox died at The Allen Hospital in Upper Manhattan, on December 18, 2012, of AIDS-related causes, after he stopped taking his HIV medications.\n\nSt. Luke's–Roosevelt Hospital Center renamed their HIV clinic, formerly the Center for Comprehensive Care, as the Spencer Cox Center for Health, in June 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2870428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2870428", "title": "Stefano Magaddino", "text": "Stefano Magaddino\n\nStefano \"The Undertaker\" Magaddino (October 10, 1891 – July 19, 1974) was a Sicilian mafioso who became the boss of the Buffalo crime family in western New York. His underworld influence stretched from Ohio to Southern Ontario and as far east as Montreal, Quebec. Known as \"Don Stefano\" to his friends and \"The Undertaker\" to others, he was also a charter member of the American Mafia's ruling council, otherwise known as The Commission.\n\nBorn in Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily, Magaddino emigrated to the United States in 1909 and settled in Brooklyn, New York. One of Magadinno's cousins from Sicily was Joseph Bonanno, the future boss of the Bonanno crime family in New York City.\n\nIn 1921, in Avon, New Jersey, Magaddino was arrested for his involvement in the murder of Camillo Caiozzo, a member of the rival Buccellato clan from Castellammare del Golfo. In 1924, Magaddino became a naturalized U.S. citizen.\n\nMagaddino eventually moved to Niagara Falls, New York, then in later years further north to Lewiston, another town on the Niagara River facing the Canada–US border. Although he was a successful mortician operating his legitimate Magaddino Memorial Chapel funeral home business in Niagara Falls, with Prohibition in effect in the United States, Maggadino made his real money running a profitable bootlegging business by smuggling wine and spirits across the Niagara River into New York State, thereby supplying the needs of speakeasies located in Buffalo and the very \"Honky-tonk\" Niagara Falls. After Prohibition ended, Magaddino and his crime family made their money by means of loan sharking, illegal gambling, extortion, carjacking and labor racketeering as well as other legitimate lucrative businesses such as linen service businesses that served the needs of most of the hotels located throughout the region as well as taxicab companies and other service-oriented businesses.\n\nMagaddino's crime family held power in the underworld territories of Upstate and Western New York, namely, Buffalo, New York, bordering Canada and situated on Lake Erie, Rochester and Utica, along the Mohawk River as far east as Amsterdam, New York; from Eastern Pennsylvania as far west as Youngstown, Ohio, and in Canada from Fort Erie (opposite Buffalo, NY) to Toronto, Ontario and as far east as Montreal, Quebec. Magaddino led his Buffalo family through its glory years and its most powerful and profitable era in La Cosa Nostra. He was an old-style boss who preferred to stay in the background and not draw any attention to himself or his criminal activities if possible. Due to his territory's remoteness yet the vast amount of it he controlled and being geographically insulated from the inter-family squabbles of the New York City-based families, he was held in high regard and was at times called upon to be an arbiter involving territorial disputes between crime families based there.\n\nFor fifty years, Magaddino was a dominant presence in the Buffalo underworld. He was the longest tenured boss in the history of the American Mafia. Magaddino was also involved in national La Cosa Nostra affairs. Magaddino was a charter member of Charles \"Lucky\" Luciano's Mafia Commission and attended important underworld summits such as the 1946 Havana Conference and the 1957 Apalachin Conference.\n\nIt is believed Magaddino, along with Antonio and Johnny Papalia, played a role in notorious Hamilton bootlegger Rocco Perri's disappearance in 1944 in order to gain more Canadian market control.\n\nAlthough fairly popular, Magaddino had enemies and survived several assassination attempts. In 1936, rival gangsters attempted to kill Magaddino with a bomb, killing his sister instead. In 1958, an assassin tossed a hand grenade through his kitchen window, which failed to explode. This second attempt on his life was said to be directed by mobsters who blamed Magaddino for the failed Apalachin Meeting, which was raided by New York State Police.\n\nMagaddino had never spent any significant time in prison. However, in 1968, he and his son Peter were arrested and charged with interstate bookmaking. A raid on his son's home in Niagara Falls led to the discovery of approximately $473,134 in a suitcase. This created great animosity between the Buffalo family members and the Magaddinos and led to a breakdown of their cooperation concerning criminal activities. The Buffalo family split into dissident factions; the leaders met in Rochester at the end of 1968 and by early 1969, ousted Magaddino as boss, leaving him to lead a faction made up of his once powerful in-laws and older crime family members, from 1969 until he died several years later.\n\nStefano Magaddino died of a heart attack on July 19, 1974, at age 82 at Mount Saint Mary's Hospital in Lewiston, New York. His funeral mass was celebrated at St. Joseph's Roman Catholic church and he was buried in St. Joseph's Cemetery on Pine Avenue in Niagara Falls.\n\n\"Mob Boss\", written by Mike Hudson, is a book about Magaddino's life as a mob boss. Magaddino is also mentioned in \"Niagara Falls Confidential\", also written by Mike Hudson. He also gets a passing mention in \"The Valachi Papers\" by Peter Maas.\n\nMagaddino is an unseen character in the third season of the hit HBO series, Boardwalk Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "47019019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47019019", "title": "Sugata", "text": "Sugata\n\n\"Sugata\" is an epithet for Gautama Buddha. \n\nAccording to Bhikkhu Khantipalo, the term \"sugato\" can be translated as \"auspicious\", \"fortunate\" or more literally \"well gone\", \"one who has gone to goodness\", \"one whose going was good\". This refers to both the fact that his nirvana was good and that his awakening was a good for the world. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42735027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42735027", "title": "Summer Wesley", "text": "Summer Wesley\n\nSummer Wesley (born 1981 in Choctaw), who also goes by Chahta Summer, is an attorney, writer, and activist from Oklahoma. She is a member of the Choctaw Nation.\n\nSummer Wesley was born and raised in rural Southeastern Oklahoma and is a citizen of the Choctaw Nation. She attended school in the small town of Rattan, graduating high school a year early, in 1998.\n\nWesley earned four degrees from the University of Oklahoma: A Bachelor of Liberal Studies (2005), a master's in Administrative Leadership (2008), during which time she also completed the course requirements for a master's in Interprofessional Health & Human Services. She completed her Juris Doctor and Master of Arts in Native American Studies as part of a dual-degree program. Additionally, Wesley received a Certificate in American Indian Law.\n\nWesley began writing early, publishing poetry while in her teens.\n\nDuring law school, Wesley spent a semester as a writer for the \"Oklahoma Journal of Law & Technology\" (OKJOLT) and was on OKJOLT's 2012–13 board of editors. Her published Master's thesis, \"Trademarking Tradition: Intellectual Property and Native American Tribes\" is deposited in the University of Oklahoma's Bizzell Library.\n\nIn 2012, Wesley interned at Oklahoma Indian Legal Services, where she developed her skills in Federal Indian Law and the Indian Child Welfare Act. Since graduating law school, Wesley has been an advocate for Indian Country and has represented clients in tribal courts.\n\nPrior to attending law school, Wesley was active as a volunteer, frequently speaking to Scout groups about racism and stereotypical representations of Native Americans in popular culture.\n\nIn addition to her professional work representing Native Americans, Wesley has become an activist on several issues affecting her people. She has taken part in campaigns to eliminate race-based mascots for sports teams, as well as advocating for positive representations of Indigenous peoples.\n\nWesley is often quoted by her social media name of \"Chahta Summer.\" She was featured in the National Congress of American Indian's 2014 #ProudToBe project.\n\nIn August 2014, Wesley criticized the Choctaw Nation's inviting Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin to participate in their annual Labor Day Festival, stating: \"Mary Fallin has demonstrated to not be an ally to Native tribes, yet has been chosen to not only appear at Choctaw Fest, but to unveil a statue in honor of our women . . .As a Choctaw woman, I am appalled that she is being given a platform for her insincere pandering and her participation in the unveiling causes the statue to lose all honor to me. Further, I think this sends the wrong message to Indian Country regarding the Choctaw Nation's priorities and loyalties. Fallin's participation implies that our Nation condones her anti-Native policies.\" As a result of the social media protests, the tribe pulled its announcement about the Fallin appearance from its website and all mention of the appearance was removed from Fallin's social media accounts. In the end, Fallin made an appearance at the festival to sign a tribal tag compact, and left without participating in the honors she had previously been invited to.\n\nDays later, Wesley commented on the poor taste of Oklahoma State University students who made a banner with a flip reference to the Trail of Tears.\n\nIn September 2014 Wesley was quoted as criticizing Governor Fallin for cancelling a second scheduled meeting with the mother of Mah-Hi-Vist (Redbird) Goodblanket, a young Cheyenne Arapaho man who had been killed by police. Reporters found that Fallin staged a media event instead. Wesley was among Native American activists who expressed the belief that the Governor was sending \"the message that the issue holds no importance to her. Indian Country had long felt that she is no ally, but this is a bigger issue. Police brutality affects all communities...\"\n\nIn November 2014, Wesley used social media to report on the federal trial of Jason Merida, former Executive Director of the Choctaw Nation, who was convicted on all but one charge of counts of embezzlement of tribal funds and corruption. She criticized the media for not covering the trial adequately, leaving tribal citizens unaware of the serious case. She coined the hashtag #ChoctawCorruptionTrial and posted updates to various sites.\n\nAlso in November 2014, Wesley spoke out in support of three young rape victims from Norman, Oklahoma. They left school after being bullied following reporting the attacks on them.\n\nWesley was quite vocal in her support of the Oklahoma City Public School's decisions to end land run reenactments, as well as the board's vote to eliminate the \"redskins\" mascot used by Capital Hill High School. Wesley live-tweeted meetings on the topic and her account of a community educational forum on the topic was published.\n"}
{"id": "34247415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34247415", "title": "Tolekan Ismailova", "text": "Tolekan Ismailova\n\nTolekan Ismailova (Russian: Толекан Асаналиевна Исмаилова, Kyrgyz: Төлөкан Асаналиевна Исмаилова) is a Kyrgyz human rights defender and director of Bir Duino Kyrgyzstan (formerly known as Citizens Against Corruption) since May 2000, the Executive Secretary of the Kyrgyzstan NGOs Forum and founding president of Kyrgyzstan's Coalition for Democracy and Civil Society.\n\nhttps://www.frontlinedefenders.org/ru/case/case-history-tolekan-ismailova\n\nhttps://centralasien.org/en/40-women-of-kyrgyzstan-portraits/tolekan-ismailova/\nhttp://knews.kg/2016/06/pravozashhitnitsa-tolekan-ismailova-poprosila-gknb/\nhttps://kloop.kg/blog/2016/10/22/pravozashhitnitsa-tolekan-ismailova-napravila-isk-protiv-prezidenta-v-verhovnyj-sud/\nhttp://civicsolidarity.org/article/1163/kyrgyzstan-stop-threatening-human-rights-defenders\n\n\nhttps://www.hivos.nl/hivos-partner-ontvangt-franse-mensenrechtenprijs/"}
