{"id": "55794633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55794633", "title": "2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference (\"COP23\") was an international meeting of political leaders, non-state actors and activists to discuss environmental issues. It was held at UN Campus in Bonn (Germany) from 6–17 November 2017. The conference incorporated the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the thirteenth meeting of the parties for the Kyoto Protocol (CMP13), and the second meeting of the parties for the Paris Agreement (CMA2).\n\nThe purpose of the conference was to discuss and implement plans about combating climate change, including the details of how the Paris Agreement will work after it enters into force in 2020. The COP was presided over by the Prime Minister of Fiji, Frank Bainimarama, marking the first time a small-island developing state assumed the presidency of the negotiations. The German government provided considerable support that amounted to more than €117 million ($135.5 million) for the construction of the conference facilities.\n\nAlthough COP23 focused primarily on technical details of the Paris Agreement, it was the first conference of the parties to take place after President Donald Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw from the agreement.\n\nCOP23 concluded with what was called the 'Fiji Momentum for Implementation,' which outlined the steps that need to be taken in 2018 to make the Paris Agreement operational and launched the Talanoa Dialogue - a process designed to help countries enhance and implement their Nationally Determined Contributions by 2020\n\nSignificant progress was made on the so-called implementation guidelines for the Paris Agreement – commonly known as the Paris Rulebook – which are the details that will determine how the Agreement will work in practice. COP23 resulted in the Fiji Momentum for Implementation, which reinforced the need for urgent action and increased ambition. Parties will need to finalise the Implementation Guidelines at COP24.\n\nAt COP23, the Fijian Presidency announced its approach to the Talanoa Dialogue – know formerly as the Facilitative Dialogue. The Talanoa Dialogue is an inclusive and participatory process designed to allow countries to assess the progress made so far toward achieving the long-term of the Paris Agreement, and to help them increase the ambition of their Nationally Determined Contributions by 2020. The Talanoa Dalogue is a precursor to the global stocktakes that will take place every five years, beginning in 2023.\n\nA rift began to emerge between developed and developing countries over pre-2020 action. On the first day of the conference, developing countries, including China and India, asked for an agenda item to discuss this issue, which refers to the emission cuts that developed countries are required to make prior to 2020 under the Kyoto Protocol. Developed countries resisted this request, arguing that this issue was best discussed in other forums. In the end, Parties agreed to hold additional stocktaking sessions in 2018 and 2019 to review progress on reducing emissions, as well as produce two assessments on climate finance in 2018 and 2020. Several European countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain, ratified the Doha Amendment during COP23. Also during COP23, Syria announced that it would sign the Paris Agreement, leaving the United States as the only country that has rejected the pact.\n\nDeveloped and developing countries also agreed to hold an experts dialogue in 2018 on the controversial issue of loss and damage, which will explore options for mobilising expertise, technology and support for the victims of climate change and will inform the next review of the Warsaw International Mechanism in 2019.\n\nParties reached a historic decision on agriculture after six years of deadlock. The agreement established the \"Koronivia Joint Work on Agriculture\" to develop and implement new strategies for mitigation and adaptation the agriculture sector.\n\nParties also finalized the Gender Action Plan and the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, both of which are designed to increase the participation of traditionally marginalized groups in the UN Climate Negotiations.\n\nA group of 30 countries including Britain, Canada and New Zealand launched of the Powering Past Coal Alliance with the aim to phase out coal from power generation by 2030.\n\nWhile the formal negotiations took place in the World Conference Centre Bonn – called the Bula Zone – other non-state actors met in the global climate action zone – the Bonn Zone – located in temporary structures built in Rheinaue Park. The Zone was marked by Fiji’s Bula spirit and highlighted the groundswell of activity and innovation being undertaken by local governments, cities, businesses, investors, civil society, youth activists, and ordinary men and women.\n\nDuring COP23, the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) launched the InsuResilience Global Partnership for Climate and Disaster Risk Finance and Insurance Solutions with the contribution of US$125 million. This aim of this initiative is to bring affordable insurance and other financial protection to millions of vulnerable people around the world.\n\nA delegation of sub-national leaders, led by Governor Jerry Brown of California and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, travelled to Bonn to present America’s Pledge, which reports ongoing efforts to uphold the ongoing efforts the U.S.’s emissions reduction target, even after President Trump announced his intention to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Agreement.\n\nSeparately, Michael Bloomberg used pledged $50 million to expand his anti-coal US campaign into Europe.\n\nThe Fijian COP23 Presidency also launched the Ocean Pathway Partnership, which will be co-chaired by Fiji and Sweden, in an effort the strengthen the link between global warming and the health of the world’s oceans.\n\nMore than 30,000 people attended COP23 in Bonn, Germany.\n\nNotable attendees included French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, California Governor Jerry Brown, Michael Bloomberg and Arnold Schwarzenegger.\n\nDavid Banks (climate adviser) attended representing the Trump Administration.\n\nThe Climate Action Business Association (CABA) delegation to COP23 in Bonn, Germany was spearheaded by Executive Director, Michael Green and included policymakers from the Massachusetts State House: Representative Jim Cantwell, Representative Josh Cutler, Representative Jen Benson, and Senator Michael Barrett, and Mr. Green at the climate talks. The delegation was supported by staff from Northeastern University.\n\nOn Wednesday 15 November 2017, world leaders such as António Guterres (Secretary-General of the United Nations), Emmanuel Macron (President of France) and Angela Merkel (Chancellor of Germany) delivered speeches at the conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1376193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1376193", "title": "Acorn Community Farm", "text": "Acorn Community Farm\n\nAcorn is a farm based, anarchist, egalitarian, intentional community located in rural Louisa County, Virginia, United States, and is a member of the Federation of Egalitarian Communities. Acorn was started in 1993 as a spin-off community of the older, larger Twin Oaks Community. In the early 1990s the Twin Oaks population swelled to capacity, with there still being many more people who wished to join. The pressure of the large number of people desiring to live in the community encouraged Twin Oaks members to form another community nearby to accommodate more people. This effort resulted in, on a 75 acre farm 7 miles away from Twin Oaks, the formation of Acorn.\n\nGroup meetings are held weekly and decisions are reached through consensus. Members share a strong sense of environmental awareness, therefore they strive to live lightly on the land. Although structured in areas such as membership, policies are kept to a minimum; it is preferred that a calm anarchy prevail. Of the policies that are in place, the culture encourages personal responsibility rather than supervision. The community takes on issues on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind that needs are varied amongst individuals.\n\nThe population and stability of Acorn has fluctuated significantly in its relatively short history. Financial crisis and interpersonal conflict have brought the community close to an end on a number of occasions. Having survived these difficult times, Acorn is now thriving (2013) as it enjoys a full membership of 30 members (currently its self-imposed maximum number) as well as the presence and participation of provisional members, interns and guests. There is also a waiting list of people who have been approved for membership and are waiting for space to become available.\n\nAcorn supports itself through its non-GMO heirloom seed business, Southern Exposure Seed Exchange. The income from this business is held in common and used to support Acorn's members, as well as a number of other activities (such as maintenance of a fund to support the formation of other cooperative egalitarian communities). In this vein Acorn purchased a nearby property in 2013, in order to form and support the growth of a new community, which is named Sapling.\n\nAll members enjoy full medical, dental and optical care, as well as a monthly stipend.\n\nAcorn has a highly flexible self-directed labor system in keeping with its philosophy of non-hierarchy and personal independence coupled with personal responsibility. The work of the seed business is done by a dynamic and flexible collection of members and guests who attend to the necessary work tasks based on the varying needs of the business as well as the abilities and inclinations of the participants. Being non-hierarchical, there are no bosses, owners, investors, managers or supervisors to direct the work. Therefore work occurs with minimal supervision. Priorities are identified, and results achieved, by the input of those participants who have the most insight into what is required for the task to be done; this is coupled with the agreement and assumption of responsibility of the other participants.\n\nThe farm works in large part due to the fact that the community carefully chooses who becomes a member by a process called Clearness. After spending three weeks visiting the community, prospective members get \"clear\" with every single member of the community by meeting individually for in depth conversations. Then all members meet to decide whether or not to accept that person as a provisional member. The decision, like all decisions at Acorn, is made through consensus. Thus, all members must agree to accept the person as a provisional member. Failing full consensus for acceptance, the applicant is not invited to join.\n\nOnce accepted, a person remains a provisional member for one year and then the full members decide whether or not to accept that person into full membership. Provisional membership is a trial membership and that person remains at Acorn so long as that person has the consent of all members to be there. If at any time full consent is withdrawn that person must leave. Once that person is accepted as a full member, full consensus is required for the community to require that person to leave.\n\nMember of the community rotate cooking responsibilities, though cooking is done mostly by those who are experienced in it. The generally prepared meals often offer a meat dish, a number vegetarian dishes and maybe a vegan dish if vegans are present. The community raises and cares for chickens for meat and eggs; goats for meat and milk; and pigs for pork. Two meals per day are prepared by rotating cooks from within the community and most members attend most meals. The community does not buy factory farmed meat and purchases much of its food organically. Acorn is also successful in rescuing food which was destined for dumpsters by working with the local food bank on redistributing their surplus produce and by working with food delivery services to rescue their surpluses.\n\nMembers of Acorn are involved in various community service activities. These include Plant a Row (which grows food for local food pantry serving local disadvantaged persons) and Food Not Bombs. Acorn has also invested some money and considerable labor by volunteering to help two new local egalitarian communities Living Energy Farm and Sapling. The community also supports members who wish to pursue activism, especially as it relates to food safety and blocking the spread of GMOs including the March Against Monsanto.\n\nAcorn has a minimum work quota of 42 hours a week, which all adult members are expected to meet. This is the minimum amount of work deemed acceptable, with most members working well over this amount. This quantity of work may seem excessive to some, but Acorn is a relatively new farm based community with a substantial amount of infrastructure waiting to be built out as well as a rapidly growing business that requires increasing input to meet that growth.\n\nAll work done by members is equally creditable. Almost anything that needs to be done is considered work. This includes traditionally recognized work such as office work, maintenance and farming. However, less traditionally recognized work such as childcare, cooking, cleaning and preparing for communal parties are equally labor creditable. As a result of this system, members feel they have significantly more free time than when they were working regular jobs. Based upon meeting the minimum amount of work expected, members enjoy four weeks of vacation per year. By working over the expected quota members can accumulate additional vacation time.\n\nThe labor system at Acorn is quite unstructured. However, this does not mean members simply do whatever they want and call it work. Keeping in mind the needs and goals of the community, as well as engaging in group and individual conversations, members identify and decide on relevant tasks that need to be accomplished. Individuals then step forward to take on the responsibility of accomplishing the work in a timely fashion.\n\nAcorn, with 82 other farmers and seed businesses, preemptively sued Monsanto Corporation to protect themselves from predatory lawsuits for GMO patent infringement. This suit is between Organic Seed Growers and Trade Association and Monsanto. This class action suit was litigated by the Public Patent Foundation in response to Monsanto's multiple lawsuits against farmers who have been contaminated by their GMO seeds.\n\nLiving is communal rather than individuals living in their own houses. Each member is provided with their own bedroom in one of the four living structures.\n\nA new building which will provide much need space for Acorn's growing seed business is under construction (2013). The building has a significant number of environmentally positive features which include low impact building materials, significant southern exposure, passive ventilation for cooling, timber frame construction technique and desiccant air conditioning for maintaining stored seed temperatures. The estimated completion is Fall of 2014.\n\nThere are also a number of outbuildings including a wood shop, an auto shop, barns, greenhouses, seed processing facilities and long term seed storage freezers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2829963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2829963", "title": "Airborne collision avoidance system", "text": "Airborne collision avoidance system\n\nAn airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS, usually pronounced as \"ay-kas\") operates independently of ground-based equipment and air traffic control in warning pilots of the presence of other aircraft that may present a threat of collision. If the risk of collision is imminent, the system initiates a maneuver that will reduce the risk of collision. ACAS standards and recommended practices are mainly defined in annex 10, volume IV, of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Much of the technology being applied to both military and general aviation today has been undergoing development by NASA and other partners since the 1980s.\n\nA distinction is increasingly being made between ACAS and ASAS (airborne separation assurance system). ACAS is being used to describe short-range systems intended to prevent actual metal-on-metal collisions. In contrast, ASAS is being used to describe longer-range systems used to maintain standard \"en route\" separation between aircraft ( horizontal and vertical).\n\nAs of 2009, the only implementations that meets the ACAS II standards set by ICAO are Versions 7.0 and 7.1 of TCAS II (Traffic Collision Avoidance System) produced by three manufacturers: Rockwell Collins, Honeywell and ACSS (Aviation Communication & Surveillance Systems; an L-3 Communications and Thales Avionics company).\n\nAs of 1973, the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standard for transponder minimal operational performance, Technical Standard Order (TSO) C74c, contained errors which caused compatibility problems with air traffic control radar beacon system (ATCRBS) radar and Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) abilities to detect aircraft transponders. First called \"The Terra Problem\", there have since been individual FAA Airworthiness Directives issued against various transponder manufacturers in an attempt to repair the operational deficiencies, to enable newer radars and TCAS systems to operate. Unfortunately, the defect is in the TSO, and the individual corrective actions to transponders have led to significant differences in the logical behavior of transponders by make and mark, as proven by an FAA study of in-situ transponders. In 2009, a new version, TSO C74d was defined with tighter technical requirements. \n\nAIS-P is a modification which both corrects the transponder deficiencies (the transponder will respond to all varieties of radar and TCAS), then adds an Automatic Independent Surveillance with Privacy augmentation. The AIS-P protocol does not suffer from the saturation issue in high density traffic, does not interfere with the Air Traffic Control (ATC) radar system or TCAS, and conforms to the internationally approved Mode S data packet standard. It awaits member country submission to the ICAO as a requested approval.\n\nModern aircraft can use several types of collision avoidance systems to prevent unintentional contact with other aircraft, obstacles, or the ground:\nLarge, sophisticated aircraft may use several or all of these systems, while a small general aviation aircraft might have only PCAS or benefit from the OCAS system, or no collision-avoidance system at all (other than the pilot's situational awareness).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20437203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20437203", "title": "All Writs Act", "text": "All Writs Act\n\nThe All Writs Act is a United States federal statute, codified at , which authorizes the United States federal courts to \"issue all writs necessary or appropriate in aid of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law.\"\n\nThe act in its original form was part of the Judiciary Act of 1789. The current form of the act was first passed in 1911 and the act has been amended several times since then, but it has not changed significantly in substance since 1789.\n\nThe text of the Act is:\n\nApplication of the All Writs Act requires the fulfillment of four conditions:\n\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that federal administrative agencies can invoke the All Writs Act to preserve the status quo when a party within the agency's jurisdiction is about to take action that will prevent or impair the agency from carrying out its functions. In \"FTC v. Dean Foods Co.\", the Supreme Court held that a court of appeals to which an appeal could be taken against an FTC order banning a merger could properly issue a preliminary injunction under the All Writs Act while the FTC determined the merger's legality, if the need for injunctive relief was \"compelling\". In that case the acquired company would cease to exist since the acquiring company was about to sell all acquired milk routes, its plants and equipment, and other assets, precluding its restoration as a viable independent company if the merger were subsequently ruled illegal. This would prevent a meaningful order from being entered in the case. The Court held that the All Writs Act extends to the potential jurisdiction of an appellate court where an appeal is not then pending, but may later be perfected.\n\nIn a later similar case, the Second Circuit denied relief, because an All Writs preliminary injunction should issue only if the FTC can show that \"an effective remedial order, once the merger was implemented, would otherwise be virtually impossible, thus rendering the enforcement of any final decree of divestiture futile.\" The Second Circuit opined that the merger probably violated the antitrust laws but did not believe that effective relief would be \"virtually impossible.\" The Supreme Court reached a similar result in a later case involving an agency's dismissal of an employee. The reason was that judicial review would not be defeated as in \"Dean Foods\".\n\nIn 1984, the D.C. Circuit relied on \"Dean Foods\" as authority for issuance of an All Writs order to compel the FCC to act on a petition that it had allegedly delayed for almost five years without acting on it.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"United States v. New York Telephone Co.\" 434 U.S. 159 (1977) that the act provided authority for a U.S. District Court to order a telephone company to assist law enforcement officials in installing a device on a rotary phone in order to track the phone numbers dialed on that phone, which was reasonably believed to be used in furtherance of criminal activity.:)\n\nThe U.S. Government has revived the All Writs Act in the 21st century, notably to gain access to password protected mobile phones in domestic terrorism and narcotics investigations.\n\nThe government has been trying to use the All Writs Act since at least 2008 to force various companies to provide assistance in cracking their customers' phones. The American Civil Liberties Union has confirmed at least 76 cases in 22 states where the government applied for an order under the All Writs Act. In addition, Apple has identified 12 pending cases in its court documents, and the ACLU has found one additional case in Massachusetts.\n\nHere are some specific examples:\n\nOn October 31, 2014, a U.S. District Court in New York authorized a writ directing a mobile phone manufacturer, whose identity was not disclosed, to assist an investigation of credit card fraud by bypassing a phone's password screen.\n\nOn November 3, 2014, the Oakland Division of the U.S. Attorney's Office named Apple Inc. in papers invoking the Act, which were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Federal law enforcement sought to require Apple to extract data from a locked iPhone 5S as part of a criminal case.\n\nOn February 16, 2016, the Act was invoked again in an order that Apple Inc. create a special version of its iOS operating system, with certain security features removed, for Federal law enforcement officers to use as part of an investigation into the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack. The head of the FBI stated that what was requested was that Apple disable the iPhone's feature which erases encrypted data on the device after ten incorrect password attempts. Apple claimed that complying with the order would make brute force password attacks trivial for anyone with access to a phone using this software. Apple CEO Tim Cook in an open letter warned of the precedent that following the order would create. On the same day, the Electronic Frontier Foundation announced its support for Apple's position. Several public figures have joined the debate.\n\nOn March 20, 2017, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit stated that a decryption order issued under the Act did not violate the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination if the contents of a hard drive were a \"foregone conclusion.\"\n\nIn court filings, Apple has argued that Congress has established guidelines for what is required of private entities in such circumstances in the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1992 (CALEA). The DOJ has argued, both in October in Brooklyn and in filings on February 19, 2016, against Apple that CALEA does not apply to these cases, which involve \"data at rest rather than in transit\", an important distinction for determining whether CALEA applies, nor does it alter the authority granted the courts under the All Writs Act. On February 29, 2016, Magistrate Judge James Orenstein issued an order denying the government's request in its effort to decrypt an iPhone for admission as evidence.\n\nSen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a privacy advocate on the Senate Intelligence Committee, argued: \"If the FBI can force Apple to build a key, you can be sure authoritarian regimes like China and Russia will turn around and force Apple to hand it over to them ... They will use that key to oppress their own people and steal U.S. trade secrets.\"\n"}
{"id": "34407504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34407504", "title": "Anocracy", "text": "Anocracy\n\nDespite its popular usage, anocracy lacks a precise definition. Anocratic regimes are loosely defined as part democracy and part dictatorship, or as a \"regime that mixes democratic with autocratic features\". Another definition classifies anocracy as \"a regime that permits some means of participation through opposition group behavior but that has incomplete development of mechanisms to redress grievances\". Scholars have also distinguished anocracies from autocracies and democracies in their capability to maintain authority, political dynamics, and policy agendas. Similarly, these regime types have democratic institutions that allow for nominal amounts of competition.\n\nThese regime types are particularly susceptible to outbreaks of armed conflict and unexpected or adverse changes in leadership. \n\nThe operational definition of anocracy is extensively used by scholars Monty G. Marshall and Benjamin R. Cole at the Center for Systemic Peace and gains most of its dissemination through the polity data series. The data set aims to measure democracy in different states, and retains anocracy as one of its classification methods for regime type. Consequently, anocracy frequently appears in democratization literature that utilizes the polity-data set.\nIn a closed anocracy, competitors are drawn from the élite. In an open anocracy, others compete too.\n\nThe number of anocratic regimes has steadily increased over time, with the most notable jump occurring after the end of the Cold War. During the period from 1989 to 2013, the number of anocracies increased from 30 to 53.\n\nDue to the instability of anocratic regimes, human rights violations are significantly higher within anocracies than democratic regimes. According to Maplecroft's 2014 Human Rights Risk Atlas, eight of the top ten worst human rights violating countries are anocracies. In addition, the report categorized every current anocracy as \"at risk\" or at \"extreme risk\" of human rights offenses.\n\nThe high correlation between anocratic regimes and human rights abuses denotes the nonlinear progression in a country’s transition from an autocracy to a democracy. Generally, human rights violations substantially decrease when a certain threshold of full democracy is reached. However, human rights abuses tend to remain the same, or even increase, as countries move from an autocratic to an anocratic regime.\n\nDuring the revolutions of the Arab Spring, Libya, Egypt, and Yemen all made relative progress towards more democratic regimes. With many of the authoritarian practices of their governments remaining, the states currently fall under the category of anocracies. They are also listed as some of the most extreme human rights violating countries in the world. These violations include, but are not limited to, torture, police brutality, slavery, discrimination, unfair trials, and restricted freedom of expression. Research has shown that political protests, such as those that occurred during the Arab Spring, generally lead to an increase in human right violations as the existing government tries to retain power and influence over governmental opposition. Therefore, transitioning governments tend to have high levels of human rights abuses.\n\nIn their annual Freedom in the World report, Freedom House scored state’s violations of civil liberties on a seven-point scale, with a score of seven representing the highest percentage of violations. Freedom House defined civil liberty violations as the infringement of freedom of expression, associational and organizational rights, rule of law, and individual rights. While most consolidated democracies received scores of one, almost all anocracies were scored between four and six, due to the high percentage of civil liberties violations within most anocratic regimes.\n\nStatistics show that anocracies are ten times more likely to experience intrastate conflict than democracies, and twice as likely as autocracies. One explanation for the increase in violence and conflict within anocracies is a theory known as More Murder in the Middle (MMM). The theory argues that the unstable characteristics of anocratic regimes, which include the presence of divided elites, inequality, and violent challengers who threaten the legitimacy of the current social order, cause governing elite to resort to political repression or state terror at a much higher rate than democratic or authoritarian regimes. This leads to high levels of what are termed \"life-integrity violations\" which include state-sponsored genocide, extrajudicial executions, and torture.\n\nState life-integrity violations can be categorized as acts of state-terror. Acts of terrorism by both governmental and outside groups are generally higher in transitioning, anocratic, governments than in either democratic or authoritarian regimes.Harvard Public Policy Professor Alberto Abadie argues that the tight control of authoritarian regime is likely to discourage terrorist activities within the state. However, without the stability of a clear authoritarian rule or a consolidated democracy, anocracies are more open and susceptible to terrorist attacks. He notes that in Iraq, and previously in Spain and Russia, transitions from an authoritarian regime to a democracy were accompanied by temporary increases in terrorism.\n\nAccording to the Political terror scale (PTS), a data set which ranks state sponsored violence on a five-point scale, almost every anocracy is ranked as having a score between three and five. On the scale, a score of three indicates a state where \"there is extensive political imprisonment, or a recent history of such imprisonment. Execution or other political murders and brutality may be common. Unlimited detention, with or without a trial, for political views is accepted.\" States are ranked as a four when, \"civil and political rights violations have expanded to large numbers of the population. Murders, disappearances and torture are a common part of life. In spite of its generality, on this level terror affects those who interest themselves in politics or ideas.\" Scores of five are given to states where, \"terror has expanded to the whole population. The leaders of these societies place no limits on the means or thoroughness with which they pursue personal or ideological goals.\" While only eleven states were given scores of five in the 2012 Political Terror Scale report, four of those states, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Somalia, and Sudan, were classified by the Polity data series as anocracies.\n\nThere are differing views on whether or not anocracy leads to civil war. It is debated whether or not transitions between government regimes or political violence leads to civil war.\n\nCivil war in unstable countries are usually the outcome of a country's inability to meet the population's demands. The inability for the state to provide the needs of the population leads to factionalism within the country. When the factions are not able to get what they want, then they take up arms against the state.\n\nFormer democracies that transition to anocracy have a greater risk of being embroiled in civil conflict. The population's awareness of what rights they had as a democratic society may compel them to fight to regain their rights and liberties. On the other hand, autocracies that transition into anocracies are less likely to break out in civil war. Not all anocracies are unstable. There are many countries that are stable but are classified as anocracies, such as Russia and Saudi Arabia. It is the transitional qualities associated with some anocracies that are predicative of civil conflict. The magnitude of the transition also affects the probability of a civil conflict. The higher magnitude of the transition, the higher likelihood of civil war.\n\nHowever, some international relations experts use the polity data series in the formulation of their hypothesis and study and this presents a problem because the Polity IV system uses violence and civil war as a factor in their computation of a country's polity score. Two components, \"the degree of institutionalization, or regulation, of political competition\", and \"the extent of government restriction on political competition\", are problematic to use in any study involving Polity IV and civil war in anocratic governments. In the numeric rating system of one of these parts of Polity IV, unregulated, \"may or may be characterized by violent conflict among partisan groups.\" The other component says \"there are relatively stable and enduring political groups - but competition among them is intense, hostile, and frequently violent.\" The only thing that can be deduced concretely, is that political violence tends to lead to civil war. There is no solid evidence to support that political institutions in an anocracy leads to civil war.\n\nWhile the first three characteristics capture the instability of anocracies, another feature of anocratic regimes is its broad descriptiveness. Anocracy describes a regime type with a mix of institutional characteristics that either constrains or promotes the democratic process, \"encapsulating a complex category encompassing many institutional arrangements\". While anocracies demonstrate some capacity for civil society and political participation, their autocratic and democratic counterparts show considerably more or less capabilities. Thus, while scholars are easily able to identify democratic and autocratic regimes based on their respective characteristics, anocracies become a wider, \"catchall\" category for all other regimes. Yet, despite its broadness and complexity, the convention is still used because of its relevance to civil instability as well as its usage in the Polity data series.\n\nCambodia is an example of anocracy because its government displays democratic and authoritarian aspects. Under the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia, Cambodia implemented an electoral system based on proportional representation, held legitimate elections, and instituted a parliamentary system of government. The constitution, created on 21 September 1993 indicated that Cambodia was a parliamentary government with a constitutional monarchy. Cambodia exhibited signs of a democratic state, especially with the presence of elections and a proportionally representative government. Following the coup in 1997, the Cambodian government has taken more authoritarian measures to keep peace in the country. Protests have been suppressed violently by pro-government forces and many human rights activists and protester have been arrested by the Cambodian government.\n\nCambodia shows signs of being an unstable government with abrupt changes in leadership, making it an anocratic. The initial elections led to FUNCINPEC's victory under the leadership of Prince Ranariddh. FUNCINPEC and the Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party won 68 out of 120 seats in the National Assembly. The Cambodian People's Party, led by Hun Sen, refused to accept the outcome. Although a coalitional government was created with Prince Ranariddh as the First Prime Minister and Sen as the Second Prime Minister, the deal failed as Sen led a coup d'état on July 5, 1997. Sen and the CPP have been in power ever since and the CPP recently won a general election against the Cambodia National Rescue Party led by Sam Rainsy.\n\nThailand's history of leadership changes make it an anocratic state. Thailand has been undergoing constant political upheaval since 1993. Coups d'état and the purchase of political votes are the main causes for Thai political instability. Thailand experienced a period of political liberalization under General Prem Tinsulanonda who was an unelected Prime Minister during the 1980-1988 period. A series of coups ensued soon after. General Suchinda Kraprayoon led a coup against Prime Minister Choonhavan on February 23, 1991. After the Black May incident Suchinda was forced to resign and Anand Panyarachun was assigned the position of temporary prime minister. Thaksin Shinawatra won the 2001 elections and became Prime Minister of Thailand; he won again in 2005 but a coup led by the Thai military deposed Prime Minister Shinawatra in 2006. After a new constitution was adopted, Samak Sundaravej and his People's Power Party (Thailand) won the election on December 23, 2007 and Sundaravej became prime minister. However, due to a conflict of interest, Sundaravej was ousted and Somchai Wongsawat was elected as the new prime minister. Shortly after his election, Prime Minister Wongsawat and the PPP was found to be guilty of electoral fraud and Wongsawat lost his position. Abhisit Vejjajiva's election as the next prime minister was met with opposition by \"Red Shirts.\" On July 3, 2011, Yingluck Shinawatra, belonging to the Pheu Thai Party, was elected as prime minister. Following mass protests in 2013, Shinawatra was deposed by a military coup led by General Chan-o-cha, who is currently the prime minister.\n\nBurma, or the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, is classified as an anocracy because of adverse armed conflict, changes in leadership, and the part-democratic, part-authoritarian nature of its government. Burma had a representative democracy after it gained independence from Britain. Soon after independence was achieved, there was an outbreak of various insurgencies and rebellions. Many of these insurgencies were caused by divides along ethnic lines. One of the most prominent civil wars in Burma, the Kachin conflict, restarted in 2011 and Burma is still embroiled in a civil war.\n\nBurma has had a history of changes in government, usually through military coups. In 1962, General Ne Win enacted a military coup and created the Burma Socialist Programme Party which held power for 26 years. On September 18, 1988, General Saw Maung led another military coup to return the government to the people and created the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), renamed State Peace and Development Council. After holding free and legitimate elections in May 1990, the National League for Democracy (NLD) won with Aung San Suu Kyi at its head. However, the military junta refused to give up power to the NLD.\nThe Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP), backed by the military, won the 2010 elections and the military government was dissolved soon after.\n\nThe Burmese government shows signs of having democratic as well as authoritarian features. Burma is a pseudo-democratic state because of the elections that have been held in 1990 and 2010. However, both these elections were problematic because the military did not transfer power to the winning party in 1990 and the 2010 elections were seen as illegitimate. Violent repression is the biggest signifier of the authoritarian nature of the Burmese government. The Win regime was marked by extreme oppression and human rights abuses and as a result, Burmese civilians and students protested against the government. The Burmese government responded violently to the protests and the Tatmadaw, or Myanmar Armed Forces, killed many of the protestors. After the coup in 1988 by General Maung, the protests were violently suppressed again as Maung's government proceeded to implement martial law to bring peace and order.\n\nAt the end of World War II, European control over its colonial territories in Africa diminished. During this period of decolonization in the 1950s and 1960s, many African states gained independence. Although these newly independent African states could become either democratic or autocratic regimes, manageability issues made way for autocratic regimes to come into power. Most underdeveloped African states that did become democracies in this time period failed within 10 years and transitioned to autocracies. For about 30 years after 1960, the number of autocratic regimes in Africa rose from 17 to 41 as the number of democratic regimes stayed around five. After the collapse of communism in Europe and the rise of democratization at the end of the Cold War, Africa experienced a major political transformation. In the 1990s, the number of autocracies decreased to nine and the number of democracies increased to nine as many African countries remained stuck in an anocratic state. By 2012, Africa had three autocracies, 17 democracies, and 30 anocracies. By 2013, the majority of African countries remained either open or closed anocracies. As African states transition from autocracy to anocracy and anocracy to democracy, electoral conflicts and violence remains prevalent.\n\nWith a polity score of four in 2014, Nigeria is categorized as an open anocracy, transitioning closer to democracy than autocracy. In recent years, Nigeria has displayed characteristics of anocratic regimes including political corruption and electoral riggings. Following years of military rule after gaining independence in 1960 to 1999 with excluding 1979-83, the 2007 general elections marked the first time in Nigerian history that political leadership could be passed from one civilian to another through the process of election. However, in late 2006, just months before the April 2007 general election, former president Olusegun Obasanjo used state institutions to try to defeat political opponents as he attempted to win his third straight presidential term. Using the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), an institution created by Obasanjo's administration, the former president had some of his political enemies and their family members either arrested or detained. Despite the electoral conflicts, some Nigerians view their country as running on democratic principles because military power has been controlled by political elites for 15 years. However, the aforementioned electoral conflicts combined with state governors using legislative and judiciary power to repeatedly win elections suggests that Nigeria remains an anocracy. Former president Goodluck Jonathan was accused of abusing his power in an attempt to remain in office past 2015, despite claiming his presidency advocated democratic principles.\n\nWhen Robert Mugabe gained presidency in 1980, Zimbabwe was listed as an open anocracy with a polity score of four. By 1987, the country had almost fully transitioned to an authoritarian regime with a polity score of negative six, which made it a closed anocracy. After remaining on the border between an authoritarian regime and closed anocracy for over a decade, Zimbabwe's polity score increased in the early 2000s. Currently, Zimbabwe has a polity score of 4, making it an open anocracy. In recent years, Zimbabwe has moved toward becoming a more democratic regime, but electoral conflicts and human rights violations still exist leaving Zimbabwe as an anocratic regime.\n\nWhen Zimbabwe was a closed anocracy in the late 1990s, the country experienced major human rights violations. Labor strikes were common as employers did not listen to the demands of their employers and real wages fell by 60 percent from 1992 to 1997. The labor strikes that occurred in the late 1990s were declared illegal by the government of Zimbabwe and blame was put on poor, working class citizens. As labor laws continued hurting workers, health services declined and housing projects stagnated.\n\nSince becoming president in 1980, Mugabe has used a variety of tactics to remain in power that have led to major electoral conflicts over the years. In the March 2008 presidential election, the electoral body reported that Morgan Tsvangirai, the presidential candidate of the opposing party, received more votes than Mugabe. However, because Tsvangirai received 48 percent of the vote and not full majority, it was announced that a runoff would take place. Using intimidation tactics, including murder threats, Mugabe and his party forced Tsvangirai to withdraw from the runoff and Mugabe remained in power. A U.S. led United Nations security council to impose sanctions on Mugabe failed and talks about power-sharing between Mugabe and Tsvangirai ended soon after the runoff. After opposing party candidate Lovemore Moyo won Speaker of the Legislature, a power-sharing coalition was finally set up in September 2008 in which Tsvangirai was named Prime Minister. Following this, the polity score of Zimbabwe increased from one to four by 2010. Yet, in 2013, Mugabe won his seventh straight presidential term and the election was criticized for being rigged to allow Mugabe to win.\n\nIn the 1990s, Uganda transitioned from an autocracy to a closed anocracy. Although Uganda saw a jump in its polity score in the mid-2000s, it has retained a polity score of negative two for the last decade. Uganda is populated by many ethnic groups with the Buganda group, the largest of these groups, making up 17 percent of the population. Since Uganda gained independence in 1962, incessant conflict has ensued between the approximately 17 ethnic groups, which has led to political instability. Dictator Idi Amin was responsible for around 300,000 deaths under his rule from 1971-1979 and guerrilla warfare from 1980-1985 under Milton Obote killed 100,000 people. Human rights abuses under both of these rulers led to even more deaths from 1971 to 1985.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Uganda experienced large-scale violent dissent as the country experienced more rebellions and guerrilla warfare. As a result of the warring, the government called for non-party presidential and legislative elections in the mid-1990s. A period of relative peace followed as a common law legal system was instituted in 1995. During this period, Uganda transitioned from an authoritarian regime to a closed anocracy. The political situation of Uganda has seen little improvement under the rule of Yoweri Museveni who has maintained power since 1986. Museveni has retained power due to the fact that other political organizations in Uganda cannot sponsor candidates. Only Museveni and his National Resistance Movement (NRM) can operate without any limitations leading to electoral conflicts and violence.\n\nSomalia was labeled as an autocracy from 1969 to 2012 with a polity score of negative seven throughout the entire period. From 1969 to 1991 Siad Barre was the military dictator of the Somali Democratic Republic. After Barre was overthrown in 1991, two decades of chaos ensued as civil war broke out and rival warlords fought to gain power. The consistent fighting of tribal leaders and warlords made the country unable to deal with natural disasters, droughts, and famines causing a combined 500,000 deaths in the famines of 1992 and 2010-2012.\n\nAfter years of being split into fiefdoms, the main Somali warlords established an agreement to appoint a new president in 2004. However, this plan failed when Islamist insurgents, including the radical youth militia al-Shabaab who had links to Al-Qaeda, gained control over much of southern Somalia from 2006 to 2008. With the assistance of international peace keeping offensives and the Kenyan army, the Islamist insurgents were forced to withdraw in 2012. In the same year, the first formal parliament in over 20 years was appointed in Somalia. The newly formed parliament chose Hassan Sheikh Mohamud as the new president in September 2012. With international assistance, the Somali government has been able to rebuild itself and the country has been relatively more stable recently. Since 2013, Somalia has retained a polity score of five and is listed as an open anocracy.\n\nRussia, as of 2016, is classified as an open anocracy on the Polity IV scale, which means that it is between one and five in its score. Open anocracies hold democratic elections, but ones that are not very free, and the country does not grant some rights of the population. The press is strictly monitored, as is incoming news from the outside world. Russia allegedly has all of these characteristics.\n\nLate in 2013 the then president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, conducted talks with the European Union about establishing closer ties. Instead, Yanukovych backed out of the prospective agreement and turned to Russia for some multibillion-dollar loans. Civil unrest broke out in the streets of Kiev, with the citizens showing their anger over the president spurning the EU. Yanukovych fled to Russia (February 2014) as the protests got out of hand. An interim government took office in early 2014, with new elections scheduled for later in 2014. A referendum held to determine if Crimea was to become part of Russia came under criticism. Questionable plebiscites are a characteristic of anocracy. In February 2014 the death toll in Kiev rose to almost 100 due to escalating clashes between demonstrators and security forces. This, in combination with the government's loose hold on its subjects, and foreign interference makes Ukraine an example of a transitional state, one that is in an anocratic stage.\n\nHowever, the duration of the period where the term (i.e. 'Anocracy') might be considered relevant to Ukraine did not last long, but, rather, there was a number of outbreaks and they fitted mostly into the Maidan period (i.e. from 30 November 2013 till 20 February 2014): notably, they concentrated around certain events that earmarked the intensification of the hostilities.\n\nOtherwise, the Ukrainians as a nation have demonstrated sound ability to self-organization, self-discipline and absence of temptations to indulge in mass criminality, which normally accompanies such events. In contrary - the acting authorities of that period (Viktor Yanukovych and his apparatus) were the ones to instigate and provoke criminality: from using notorious thugs (widely referred there to as 'titushki') to outright releasing criminals from the prisons in the neighbourhood of capital city Kyiv - with the aim to distabilize the overall situation and compromise the post-Maidan authorities.\n\nTheoretically, the secession of territories (Crimea on the South and Donbass on the East) might be other tokens to justify the classification of Ukraine as anocracy. However, it has been proved that in both cases Russia stood behind the local separatists: vote on Crimean referendum led to international condemnation and the public opinion might have been skewed by massive propaganda in Russian mass media (which dominated the peninsula's media landscape) as well as temporary vacuum of central power after Yanukovych has fled the country; whereas the same has been attempted in the rest of South-East (e.g. Kharkiv, Odesa, Kherson, Dnipro, etc.), but succeeded only in extreme South-Eastern part of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts - and would have been inevitably ended without both open and implicit Russian intervention and military aid.\n\nYugoslavia was a large country in Europe until the 1990s. It was mostly held together in the latter half of the 20th century by Josip Broz Tito, a president strongman who ruled by force of personality. Tensions rose between the different ethnic groups in Yugoslavia - including the Croats, Serbs, Albanians, Bosnians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Slovenians, and Kosovars. New separate states formed: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and Slovenia. The destructive Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s cost many lives. The fragmentation of power in Yugoslavia, disputed elections, and the discontent of the differentiated ethnic political groups are the main factors resulting in Yugoslavia and its successor states being considered anocracies. The political stagnation, and the non-civilian control of the military during the civil wars play a large part as well.\n\nAnocratic regimes are often implicitly mentioned in democratic transition literature. There are numerous examples of regimes that have successfully transitioned to democracy from anocracy.\n\nMexico's transition from an anocratic to democratic regime occurred during the 1980s and 1990s on the electoral stage. This period was characterized by the rise of multiple parties, decline of power from the Institutional Revolutionary Party, and decentralization of power from the national level into municipalities. The democratization process produced competitive elections with less voting fraud, culminating with the 1994 presidential election. There was also a documented increase in the role of media and journalism during this period, which led to the creation of various special interest groups, such as those representing the environment, indigenous rights, and women's rights. However, violence continues to remain a characteristic of Mexico's local elections.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, Japan surrendered Taiwan to the Republic of China. The constitution that the Republic of China used to govern Taiwan guaranteed civil rights and elections, but was ignored in favor of rule under martial law. Taiwan's pro-democracy movement gained momentum during the early 1980s and coalesced into the formation of the Democratic Progressive Party in 1986. Over the next decade, Taiwan attempted to restore the civil rights promised in its constitution, culminating with the Taiwan's first direct presidential election in 1996. Taiwan continues to move towards a consolidated democracy.\n\nIn 1991, Ghana was listed as an autocratic regime with a polity score of negative seven. By the late 1990s and early 2000s, Ghana was an open anocracy. In 2005, Ghana successfully transitioned from an open anocracy to a democracy as it has retained a polity score of eight since 2006. A major part of Ghana's success can be attributed to its management of the electoral process in order to decrease electoral conflict. Since Ghana began having elections in 1992, strengthening government institutions such as a strong, independent electoral commission has decreased electoral conflict. The existence of civil society organizations and a media aimed at ensuring democratic principles have also helped manage electoral conflicts in Ghana. For example, Ghana's 2008 elections ended peacefully as political institutions were able to respond to electoral challenges and advance democratic principles and processes. However, some electoral conflicts remain on a small scale in Ghana such as ethnic vote blocking, vote buying, intimidation and hate speeches. Yet, even with these minor conflicts, Ghana has been able to transform from an anocracy to a democracy by decreasing electoral conflicts.\n\nUse of the word \"anocracy\" in English dates back to at least 1950, when R. F. C. Hull's reprinted translation of Martin Buber's 1946 work \"Pfade in Utopia\" [\"Paths in Utopia\"] distinguished \"\"an\"ocracy\" (neoclassical compound: ἀκρατία \"akratia\") from \"anarchy\" - \"not absence of government but absence of domination\".\n"}
{"id": "13062431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13062431", "title": "Armistice of Znaim", "text": "Armistice of Znaim\n\nThe Armistice of Znaim was a ceasefire agreed between Archduke Charles and Napoleon I on 12 July 1809 following the Battle of Znaim, effectively ending hostilities between Austria and France in the War of the Fifth Coalition.\n\nFollowing defeat at the Battle of Wagram, Archduke Charles retreated north into Bohemia hoping to regroup his battered forces. The French army had also suffered in the battle and did not give immediate pursuit. But two days after the battle, Napoleon ordered his troops north intending to defeat the Austrians once and for all. The French eventually caught up the Austrians at Znaim (now Znojmo, Czech Republic) on 10 July 1809. Realising they were in no position to give battle, the Austrians proposed a ceasefire as Archduke Charles went to begin peace negotiations with Napoleon. However, Marshal Auguste de Marmont refused to observe the ceasefire and committed his XI Corps of around 10,000 men into battle. With Marmont greatly outnumbered, André Masséna had no choice but to support him. By 11 July, Masséna's corps had joined Marmont's in battle but the Austrians had also reinforced their position around Znaim. After two days of futile fighting, with both sides suffering similar casualties and neither side gaining any advantage, Napoleon finally arrived with news of an armistice and ordered Marmont to end the battle.\n\nAlthough the Battle of Znaim was the last action between Austria and France in the war, a formal peace was not agreed until the Treaty of Schönbrunn was signed on 14 October 1809, which finally ended the War of the Fifth Coalition.\n\nThe immediate cause of the two-day Battle of Znaim was the decision of the Austrian commander in chief, Archduke Charles, to stage a rearguard action near the town of Znaim, about 80 kilometers north of Vienna, in order to give his army time to withdraw its baggage train in safety toward Moravia. Marmont’s two combined French and Bavarian corps were the first of Napoleon’s troops to arrive on the field following the course of the river Thaya. Believing that he faced only a rear guard, Marmont ordered his Bavarian troops to take the village of Tesswitz south of Znaim, while the rest of his troops attacked the village of Zuckerhandl.\n\nThe Bavarians succeeded in storming Tesswitz but were then thrown out by Austrian reinforcements. Marmont renewed the Bavarian attack, and Tesswitz was retaken, only to be lost soon after. The village changed hands a number of times during the day, this contest constituting the heaviest fighting the Bavarians saw in the whole campaign. Marmont had hoped to swing his cavalry in behind the Austrian rear guard, but on reaching high ground above Tesswitz, they were faced with five enemy corps. The French cavalry was forced to withdraw in the face of a large body of Austrian cuirassiers.\n\nMarmont was now engaged by 40,000 Austrian troops and was heavily outnumbered. His men nevertheless managed to hold on to both Tesswitz and Zuckerhandl overnight. Archduke Charles withdrew his forces into a strong defensive position situated so as to hold the north bank of the Thaya and Znaim. Napoleon arrived at Tesswitz at 10:00 A.M., and despite the fact that he had brought with him reinforcements of cavalry and artillery, he believed that his force was too weak to launch a full-scale attack. His plan therefore was to employ Masséna’s corps to pin the Austrians throughout the day and to await the corps of marshals Louis-Nicolas Davout and Nicolas Oudinot, which would be able to arrive early on the twelfth. Masséna launched his attack on the extreme right of the Austrian position during midmorning and quickly seized the main bridge across the Thaya south of Znaim. His troops took two small villages and then advanced directly on Znaim. Charles meanwhile reinforced the Austrian position with two grenadier brigades, which advanced during a thunderstorm and initially threw the French back.\n\nThe situation was stabilized by a body of French cavalry at approximately 7:00 P.M., when French and Austrian staff officers rode along the opposing lines announcing a cease-fire, which led to the signature of an armistice on the twelfth. Znaim was to prove the last action of the 1809\ncampaign. The two sides signed a treaty of peace at the Schönbrunn Palace on 14 October.\n"}
{"id": "12341044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12341044", "title": "Bürgerblock-Regierung", "text": "Bürgerblock-Regierung\n\nThe German term Bürgerblock-Regierung (English: \"bourgeois bloc administration\") denotes a government coalition in the German Weimar Republic. It consisted of the German Democratic Party, \"Zentrum\", the Bavarian People's Party, the German People's Party and the German National People's Party (or at least most of these parties).\n\nOn 15. January 1925 the first occurrence of this coalition (led by Hans Luther) came into effect. On 29. January 1927 Wilhelm Marx's cabinet brought the second occurrence of such a combination.\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany CDU/CSU/FDP coalitions are sometimes (rarely) referred to with this term. The usual denotation today is \"centre-right government\" or “bourgeois government” (in German \"bürgerliche Regierung\"), because the SPD is not part of this combination.\n"}
{"id": "4446744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4446744", "title": "Camp Nama", "text": "Camp Nama\n\nCamp Nama was a military base in Baghdad, Iraq, originally built by the government of Saddam Hussein, from which its name derives, and now used by Iraqi military forces. Purportedly, the original Iraqi name has been repurposed by U.S. personnel involved with the facility as a backronym standing for \"Nasty Ass Military Area\".\n\nAfter the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq, the camp was taken over by elite American special operations forces. The main purpose of the camp was to interrogate prisoners for information about Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. The \"New York Times\" reported on 19 March 2006, the three-year anniversary of the U.S. invasion, that the elite unit, known as Task Force 6-26, used the facility to interrogate prisoners both before and after the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal. Some of the interrogation took place in \"The Black Room,\" which used to be a torture chamber when Saddam's government ran the facility. The camp was the target of repeated warnings and investigations from U.S. officials since August 2003. There were placards around the camp that read \"No Blood No Foul,\" a reference to the notion, described by a Pentagon official, that \"If you don't make them bleed, they can't prosecute for it.\"\n\nAllegations of abuse were first reported in the mainstream U.S. media in 2005. After the more extensive \"New York Times\" report in 2006, which was \"based on documents and interviews with more than a dozen people,\" the independent organization Human Rights Watch issued a report documenting detainee abuse in Iraq. The report confirmed the charges about Camp Nama uncovered by the \"New York Times\", noting that \"from 2003 to the present, numerous U.S. personnel and Iraqi detainees have reported serious mistreatment of detainees by the special task force, including beatings, exposure to extreme cold, threats of death, humiliation, and various forms of heavy interrogation. Many of these allegations have been contained in documents released to the American Civil Liberties Union and other human rights groups pursuant to Freedom of Information Act litigation.\"\n\nThe report included an extensive interview with one Sergeant, using the pseudonym \"Jeff Perry\", who worked as an interrogator with the task force running the detention center. Sergeant \"Perry\" indicated that written authorizations were required for most abusive techniques, indicating that the use of these tactics was approved up the chain of command:\nThere was an authorization template on a computer, a sheet that you would print out, or actually just type it in. And it was a checklist. And it was all already typed out for you, environmental controls, hot and cold, you know, strobe lights, music, so forth. Working dogs, which, when I was there, wasn’t being used. But you would just check what you want to use off, and if you planned on using a harsh interrogation you’d just get it signed off.\n\nI never saw a sheet that wasn’t signed. It would be signed off by the commander, whoever that was, whether it was O3 [captain] or O6 [colonel], whoever was in charge at the time. ... When the O6 was there, yeah, he would sign off on that. ... He would sign off on that every time it was done.\n\nSome interrogators would go and use these techniques without typing up one of those things just because it was a hassle, or he didn’t want to do it and knew it was going to be approved anyway, and you’re not gonna get in that much trouble if you get caught doing one of these things without a signature.\n\nTechniques involving outright assault—hitting, slapping, and beating—were apparently not on the list, but were regularly used at Nama, indicating that the harsh methods that were approved often degenerated into even harsher treatment in practice.\nHuman Rights Watch's senior researcher on terrorism and counterterrorism commented, \"These accounts rebut U.S. government claims that torture and abuse in Iraq was unauthorized and exceptional – on the contrary, it was condoned and commonly used.\"\n\nThe reports of abuses inside Camp Nama were said to have outraged even seasoned CIA, FBI and DIA investigators accustomed to dealing with non-cooperative and hostile detainees, and to have provoked a culture clash between agencies and groups involved with the facility. By early 2004, one of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's top aides, Under-Secretary for Defense Intelligence Stephen A. Cambone, ordered a subordinate, DIA head Vice Adm. Lowell E. Jacoby to \"get to the bottom\" of any misconduct.\n\nBy June 25, 2004, Admiral Jacoby wrote a two-page memo to Cambone, in which he described a series of complaints, including a May 2004 incident in which a DIA interrogator said he witnessed task force soldiers punch a detainee hard enough to require medical help. The DIA officer took photos of the injuries, but a supervisor confiscated them, the memo said. The memo provoked an angry reaction from Mr. Cambone. \"Get to the bottom of this immediately. This is not acceptable,\" Mr. Cambone said in a handwritten note on June 26, 2004, to his top deputy, Lt. Gen. William G. Boykin. \"In particular, I want to know if this is part of a pattern of behavior by TF 6-26.\"\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\" article, General Boykin had earlier said (on March 17) through a spokesman that he told Mr. Cambone he had found no pattern of misconduct with the task force. The article does not provide further detail on Boykin's response to the investigation after Cambone's and Jacoby's intervention in June, 2004.\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\" article, in the summer of 2004, Camp Nama closed and the unit moved to \"a new headquarters in Balad, 45 miles north of Baghdad.\" This would probably refer to Balad AB, also known as Logistics Support Area Anaconda and later as Joint Base Balad.\n\nSince the transfer the unit's operations are said to have been shrouded in even tighter secrecy. According to Thomas E. Ricks of the \"Washington Post\", a new \"detainee center\" has indeed been established at Camp Balad, under the auspices of a new unit, the Joint Special Operations Task Force; entry is not permitted to normal Army Rangers personnel.\n\nBritish soldiers testified that:\n\n\nDetainees at the camp that were considered \"high-value\" were interrogated in \"The Black Room,\" a dark mostly bare room with large metal hooks hanging from the ceiling. The guards often used loud rock 'n' roll or rap music to torment prisoners during interrogations.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" mentions other whimsically named sections of Camp Nama, including Motel 6, \"a group of securely constructed wooden holding cells constructed by the United States Navy Seabees of Charlie Company NMCB-1 Air-Det. Conditions were cramped, forcing many prisoners to squat or crouch\", in a block of 6-by-8 cubicles known as Hotel California. These holding cells were constructed to hold the leaders and Individuals responsible for terrorist acts and murders.\n\n"}
{"id": "44149890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44149890", "title": "Cerna (political organization)", "text": "Cerna (political organization)\n\nCerna (\"Heartwood\" in English) is a Galician political party. Cerna was founded in 2014 and has an ideology based in Galician nationalism, direct democracy, anticapitalism, feminism and alter-globalization. Cerna was created to organize the critical sector of Anova-Nationalist Brotherhood that focuses on highlighting the nationalist and assembly-based character of the party.\n\nAt the 2014 National Assembly of Anova, CERNA was allocated only 3 seats in the party's National Council. The 3 elected representatives resigned, and CERNA conducted an internal referendum to decide if they should leave Anova-Nationalist Brotherhood and form a separate party. Finally, the organization decided to leave ANOVA, with 75% of its members supporting the split. The turnout comprised 73% of the organization's activists (201 of 276).\n\n"}
{"id": "18071633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18071633", "title": "E. Kyle Datta", "text": "E. Kyle Datta\n\nKyle Datta, who has been a General Partner of Ulupono Initiative since it was founded in 2009, announced today that he is retiring.\n\n\"“We are so grateful for all of Kyle’s work to help build Ulupono over the last decade,”\" said Mike Mohr, board member of Ulupono Initiative. \"“His strategic systems approach to tackling some of our state’s biggest challenges lays the foundation for transformative change to help Hawai‘i be more resilient and self-sufficient for many years to come. We wish him well and hope he enjoys his retirement.”\"\n\nDuring Datta’s tenure, Ulupono has invested nearly $80 million in organizations across the state that are working to increase the quality of life for Hawai‘i’s residents by producing more local food, generating more renewable energy, increasing clean transportation, and supporting better management of water and waste.\n\n\"“It has been such an honor for me to help start and guide Ulupono’s work,”\" Datta said. \"“I am deeply grateful for the confidence that the board has placed in me as well as for the remarkable colleagues and community partners I have had the privilege to work with over the years. While I have very much enjoyed my role with Ulupono, it’s time for me to take a step back, and I am confident about Ulupono’s ability to continue to have catalytic impact for Hawai‘i. I look forward to continuing my work with a variety of organizations throughout the state to help further Hawai‘i’s sustainability and resilience.”\"\n\nMurray Clay will continue as the Managing Partner, overseeing all operations and investments.\n\nDatta serves on the board of directors for Blue Planet Foundation, Hawaii BioEnergy, Johnson Ohana Charitable Foundation, and Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems Funders.\n\n"}
{"id": "52601869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52601869", "title": "Edinburgh unemployed workers centre", "text": "Edinburgh unemployed workers centre\n\nEdinburgh Unemployed Workers Centre, also called Broughton Unemployed Workers Centre or simply \"The Centre\", was an organisation set up by the local Labour Party in Edinburgh, Scotland, as a means of aiding the local unemployed find work in 1981.\n\nHowever, it soon between independent from the Labour Party and individuals involved became prominent in various social movements of the period, including resistance to the Poll Tax. The Labour Party objected and the council inspected the building and it was shut down. Activists resisted its eviction by occupying the premises until December 1, 1994. The Centre was frequently in the pages of the local paper, the \"Broughton Spurtle\". The Centre was home to Edinburgh claimants during this period. The collective associated with the Centre was the precursor to what was to become the Autonomous Centre of Edinburgh.\n\nThe Edinburgh poet Paul Reekie wrote a poem, \"Kiss ma hole\", dedicated to the Centre and the Glaswegian writer James Kelman gave a speech at its opening.\n"}
{"id": "54068420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54068420", "title": "Edith Downing", "text": "Edith Downing\n\nEdith Elizabeth Downing, (January 1857 - 3 October 1931) was an artist, sculptor and suffragette.\n\nEdith Elizabeth Downing was born in Cardiff in January 1857. She was one of four children of the coal merchant and shipping agent Edward Downing, having two sisters and a brother, Edward. Her sister Mary was also to become an artist, whilst Caroline was to join the Women's Social and Political Union with Edith. After attending Cheltenham College, Edith spent most of her working life based in Chelsea. She died in October 1931 in Surrey.\n\nEdith Downing began her artistic training at the South Kensington School of Art, later attending the Slade School of Art between 1892-1893. She was primarily a sculptor producing busts and figures in bronze and marble but she also painted watercolours and made reliefs and decorative panels. Downing first had her work exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1891 and she continued to be a regular contributor here until the early 1900s. She also exhibited at the Royal Glasgow Institute, the Paris Salon and the Society of Women Artists and was a member of the South Wales Art Society between 1896 and 1900. Several examples of Downing's work are on display at the National Museum of Wales in Cardiff including a life-size bronze figure entitled 'Avarice' on the south west staircase. An alabaster altarpiece she created as a memorial to Wilfrid Clive, who died at the age of 26 having been overcome by sulphurous volcanic fumes whilst on a visit to Dominica, can also be seen in St. Peter's Church, Wormbridge, Herefordshire. Downing also used her artistic talents to support her activities as a suffragette, both by working with her fellow artist Marion Wallace-Dunlop to organise a series of dramatic processions and by selling her work to raise funds for the movement. These included statuettes entitled 'A Sketch' and 'Peter Pan' in 1908 and statuettes of Christabel Pankhurst and Annie Kenney in 1909.\n\nEdith Downing joined the Central Society for Women's Suffrage in 1903 and the London Society for Women's Suffrage in 1906. By 1908, however, she had become frustrated by the \"futility of quiet work\" and joined the Chelsea branch of the more radical Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) together with her sister Caroline. In June 1910 Edith and Marion Wallace-Dunlop created a 'Prisoners Tableau' for the WSPU 'Prison to Citizenship' procession whilst in the following year the two collaborated on the 'Women's Coronation Procession'. This latter procession was led by Flora Drummond on horseback and included Annan Bryce dressed as Joan of Arc and 700 women and girls clothed in white to represent suffragette prisoners. In November 1911 Downing took part in several demonstrations including one in Parliament Square which led to clashes with police and another on the 23rd of the month when she broke a window of Somerset House and was sentenced to a week in jail. She was arrested again on 1 March 1912 for throwing a stone through the window of a fine art dealers in Regent Street whilst participating in a WSPU window breaking protest in the West End of London. On this occasion she was sent to Holloway Prison where she joined fellow suffragettes on hunger strike and was force fed. She was released at the end of June.\n"}
{"id": "4585125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4585125", "title": "Election address", "text": "Election address\n\nAn election address is the material sent out by a candidate during a political campaign. Election Addresses are normally only sent out during the election period itself. Other political leaflets are usually known by different names.\n\nIn UK parliamentary elections, all candidates are entitled to have one election address delivered free, by Royal Mail to every voter in their constituency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2222376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222376", "title": "Elite", "text": "Elite\n\nIn political and sociological theory, the elite (French \"élite\", from Latin \"eligere\") are a small group of powerful people who hold a disproportionate amount of wealth, privilege, political power, or skill in a society. Defined by the Cambridge Dictionary, the \"elite\" are \"those people or organizations that are considered the best or most powerful compared to others of a similar type.\" \nAmerican sociologist C. Wright Mills wrote of the \"elite\" in his 1957 book \"The Power Elite\" as \"those political, economic, and military circles, which as an intricate set of overlapping small but dominant groups share decisions having at least national consequences. Insofar as national events are decided, the power elite are those who decide them\". Mills states that the power elite members recognize other members' mutual exalted position in society. \"As a rule, 'they accept one another, understand one another, marry one another, tend to work, and to think, if not together at least alike'.\" \"It is a well-regulated existence where education plays a critical role. Youthful upper-class members attend prominent preparatory schools, which not only open doors to such elite universities as Harvard, Columbia, Yale, and Princeton, but also to the universities' highly exclusive clubs. These memberships in turn pave the way to the prominent social clubs located in all major cities and serving as sites for important business contacts\".\n\nAccording to Mills, men receive the education necessary for elitist privilege to obtain their background and contacts, allowing them to enter three branches of the power elite, which are;\n\nAccording to Mills, the governing elite in the United States primarily draws its members from political leaders, including the president, and a handful of key cabinet members, as well as close advisers, major corporate owners and directors, and high-ranking military officers. These groups overlap and elites tend to circulate from one sector to another, consolidating power in the process.\n\nUnlike the ruling class, a social formation based on heritage and social ties, the power elite is characterized by the organizational structures through which its wealth is acquired. According to Mills, the power elite rose from \"the managerial reorganization of the propertied classes into the more or less unified stratum of the corporate rich\". Domhoff further clarified the differences in the two terms: \"The upper class as a whole does not do the ruling. Instead, class rule is manifested through the activities of a wide variety of organizations and institutions...Leaders within the upper class join with high-level employees in the organizations they control to make up what will be called the power elite\".\n\nThe Marxist theoretician Nikolai Bukharin anticipated the elite theory in his 1929 work, \"Imperialism and World Economy\": \"present-day state power is nothing but an entrepreneurs' company of tremendous power, headed even by the same persons that occupy the leading positions in the banking and syndicate offices\".\n\nThe \"power elite\" is a term used by American sociologist C. Wright Mills to describe a relatively small, loosely connected group of individuals who dominate American policy making. This group includes bureaucratic, corporate, intellectual, military, media, and government elites who control the principal institutions in the United States and whose opinions and actions influence the decisions of the policymakers.\n\nThe basis for membership of a power elite is institutional power, namely an influential position within a prominent private or public organization. A study of the French corporate elite has shown that social class continues to hold sway in determining who joins this elite group, with those from the upper-middle class tending to dominate. Another study (published in 2002) of power elites in the United States under President George W. Bush (in office 2001-2009) identified 7,314 institutional positions of power encompassing 5,778 individuals. A later study of U.S. society noted demographic characteristics of this elite group as follows:\n\n\nIn the 1970s an organized set of policies promoted reduced taxes, especially for the wealthy, and a steady erosion of the welfare safety net. Starting with legislation in the 1980s, the wealthy banking community successfully lobbied for reduced regulation. The wide range of financial and social capital accessible to the power elite gives their members heavy influence in economic and political decision making, allowing them to move toward attaining desired outcomes. Sociologist Christopher Doob gives a hypothetical alternative, stating that these elite individuals would consider themselves the overseers of the national economy. Also appreciating that it is not only a moral, but a practical necessity to focus beyond their group interests. Doing so would hopefully alleviate various destructive conditions affecting large numbers of less affluent citizens.\n\nMills determined that there is an \"inner core\" of the power elite involving individuals that are able to move from one seat of institutional power to another. They therefore, have a wide range of knowledge and interests in many influential organizations, and are, as Mills describes, \"professional go-betweens of economic, political, and military affairs\". Relentless expansion of capitalism and the globalizing of economic and military power, binds leaders of the power elite into complex relationships with nation states that generate global-scale class divisions. Sociologist Manuel Castells writes in \"The Rise of the Network Society\" that contemporary globalization does not mean that \"everything in the global economy is global\". So, a global economy becomes characterized by fundamental social inequalities with respect to the \"level of integration, competitive potential and share of the benefits from economic growth\". Castells cites a kind of \"double movement\" where on one hand, \"valuable segments of territories and people\" become \"linked in the global networks of value making and wealth appropriation\", while, on the other, \"everything and everyone\" that is not valued by established networks gets \"switched off...and ultimately discarded\". The wide-ranging effects of global capitalism ultimately affect everyone on the planet, as economies around the world come to depend on the functioning of global financial markets, technologies, trade and labor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49168546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49168546", "title": "Employees' Trust Fund", "text": "Employees' Trust Fund\n\nThe Employees' Trust Fund (ETF), a social security programme, was established on 1 March 1981 under the Act No.46 of 1980 by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka\nto promote (i).employee ownership, employee welfare and economic democracy through participation in financing and investment (ii).employee participation in management through the acquisition of equity interest in enterprises and to provide for non-contributory benefits to employees upon retirement. All workers i.e. Permanent, Temporary, Casual, Contract, Piece-rate wages, Learners and apprentices who are employed in private and public sector are eligible to be benefited by it.\n\nWhere an employer first becomes liable under the provisions of this Act to contribute to the Fund in respect of any employee employed by such employer, such employee shall then become and continue to be a member of the Fund so long as there is any sum to the credit of his individual account in the Fund. Persons who are self-employed and migrant workers are also eligible to ETF membership on a voluntary basis. However the Domestic servants, Employees in religious, social or charitable institutions employing less than 10 employees, Industrial undertakings training juvenile offenders, orphans, or persons who are destitute, deaf or blind and Businesses where only family members are employed are considered as the exempts of the Act. A membership statement of account will be issued to members before 30 September every year which contains details of annual interest, account balance etc.\n\nThe employer of every employee to whom this Act applies shall be liable to pay an amount equal to three per centum (3%) of the total earnings including Wages, salary or fees, Cost of living allowance, special living allowance and other similar allowances, Payment in respect of holidays, The cost value of cooked or uncooked food provided by the employer to employees, Meal allowance and Any other forms of remuneration of the employee from his employment on or before the last day of the succeeding month. If the employer delays in forwarding the contributions according to the legal time frame, then the employer is liable to a surcharge. Incentives, attendance, productivity or night allowance, Overtime, Bonus, Service charge, Supervising allowance, Acting allowance, Professional allowance, Festival allowance, Housing allowance, Travelling allowance (reimbursed) Hourly payment made to lecturers and On call allowance are exempted from the ETF. There is no recovery from the employee and the liability of this contribution lies solely with the employer. It shall be a condition of any employee’s right to any moneys that he / she or any person on his / her behalf makes a claim thereto in the manner prescribed in the Act. No member of the Fund or other person claiming on behalf of such member shall have any interest in, or claim to, the moneys of the Fund otherwise than by, and except in accordance with, the provisions of this Act or of any regulations made there-under.\n\nAny employee can claim back for money once every five years during the period of employment or upon reaching the age of 60 years. Persons who due to leave the country permanently can claim before their departure. Cessation of employment due to permanent and total incapacity for work is another point that the employee can claim for the ETF. In the event of the death of a member, the funds in the ETF account will be paid to the nominee and if there is no nominee, then it will be paid to the executor or administrator of the member’s estate or to his/her heirs.\n\nAmong the benefits, an automatic Life Insurance Cover of maximum of 50,000 LKR, a permanent and Total Disability benefits of maximum of 200,000 LKR, financial Assistance for Heart surgery of 150,000 LKR, financial Assistance for Kidney Transplant operations of 150,000 LKR, 9000 LKR for Reimbursement of Intraocular Lens Implant for each eye are magnificent. 3000 Scholarships of 15,000 LKR each are awarded to children who get through the Year Five Scholarship examination with merit. A hospitalized Health insurance Scheme of maximum of 25,000 LKR and a Housing Loan Scheme of maximum of 50,000 LKR can be obtained during the membership period.\n"}
{"id": "20332189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20332189", "title": "European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection", "text": "European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection\n\nThe European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection (EPCIP) refers to the doctrine and programmes created to identify and protect critical infrastructure that, in case of fault, incident or attack, could seriously impact both the country where it is hosted and at least one other European Member State. \n\nThe EPCIP came about as a result of a consultation in 2004 by the European Council, seeking a programme to protect critical infrastructure through its 'Communication on Critical Infrastructure Protection in the Fight against Terrorism'. In December 2004 it endorsed the intention of the European Commission to propose a European Programme for Critical Infrastructure Protection (EPCIP) and agreed to the creation of a European Critical Infrastructure Warning Information Network (CIWIN). \nIn December the European Commission issued its finalised design as a directive EU COM(2006) 786; this obliged all member states to adopt the components of the EPCIP into their national statutes. Not only did it apply to main area of the European Union but also to the wider European Economic Area.\n\nEPCIP also identified National Critical Infrastructure (NCI) where its disruption would only affect a single Member State. It set the responsibility for protecting items of NCI on its owner/operators and on the relevant Member State, and encouraged each Member State to establish its own National CIP programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "8061863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8061863", "title": "Family Policy Council", "text": "Family Policy Council\n\nFamily policy councils are groups that work to influence government policy on families. Most are nonprofit and volunteer-based, and most are within the United States or one particular state. However, several groups exist in the English-speaking world. Family policy councils may conduct policy analysis, foster strategic leadership involvement, promote an informed citizenry, provide resources for families, and seek to influence public opinion.\n\nMany family policy councils are conservative, religious, state-level organizations dedicated to the promotion of their ideals on family values; many of these work closely with Focus on the Family and the Family Research Council and oppose same-sex marriage. Some also advocate on other issues, such as the Florida Family Policy Council against the teaching of evolution in public schools.\n\nThere are also a number of more liberal family policy organizations that conduct similar operations to their conservative counterparts toward the promotion of rights and resources for different types of families, such as those formed by interracial parents, same-sex partners, and single parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5507458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5507458", "title": "Grass (1999 film)", "text": "Grass (1999 film)\n\nGrass: History of Marijuana is a 1999 Canadian documentary film directed by Ron Mann, premiered at the Toronto Film Festival, about the history of the United States government's war on marijuana in the 20th century. The film was narrated by actor Woody Harrelson.\n\nThe film follows the history of US federal policies and social attitudes towards marijuana, beginning at the turn of the twentieth century. The history presented is broken up into parts, approximately the length of a decade, each of which is introduced by paraphrasing the official attitude towards marijuana at the time (e.g. \"Marijuana will make you insane\" or \"Marijuana will make you addicted to heroin\"), and closed by providing a figure for the amount of money spent during that period on the \"war on marijuana.\"\n\nThe film places much of the blame for marijuana criminalization on Harry Anslinger (the first American drug czar) who promoted false information about marijuana to the American public as a means towards abolition. It later shows how the federal approach to criminalization became more firmly entrenched after Richard Nixon declared a \"War on Drugs\" and created the Drug Enforcement Administration in 1973, and even more so a decade later and on, as First Lady Nancy Reagan introduced the \"Just Say No\" campaign and President George H.W. Bush accelerated the War on Drugs. The film ends during the Bill Clinton administration, which had accelerated spending even further on the War on Drugs.\n\n\"Grass\" is almost completely composed of archival footage, much of which is from public domain U.S. propaganda films and such feature films as \"Reefer Madness\" made available by the Prelinger Archives. Woody Harrelson agreed to narrate the film free-of-charge.\n\nThe art director and poster designer of the film was Paul Mavrides.\n\nThe film was generally well received by critics, scoring 64 out of 100 in Metacritic, and 71% 'fresh' on Rotten Tomatoes. The film became a cult hit within the cannabis subculture.\n\nThe film has also won Canada's Genie Award for Best Documentary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38689027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38689027", "title": "Hakeem Belo-Osagie", "text": "Hakeem Belo-Osagie\n\nHakeem Belo-Osagie is a Nigerian businessman. He is the Chairman of Metis Capital Partners an organisation focused on brokering & delivering attractive, large-ticket transactions in Africa to select blue chip international investment partners. He was listed by Forbes Magazine as the forty-first richest man in Africa in 2014.\n\nBelo-Osagie is the son of Professor Tiamiyu Belo-Osagie, a renowned gynecologist who catered to the medical needs of the family of former Nigerian military president Ibrahim Babangida. Through that connection, Hakeem secured a job as Special Assistant to the Presidential Adviser on Petroleum and Energy and later as Special Assistant to the Minister of Petroleum and Energy, late Alhaji Rilwan Lukmon. The appointments, he admits put him in the position to close in on a few oil deals from which he made his first fortune.\n\nBelo-Osagie started his career as a petroleum economist and lawyer, following his graduation from Harvard Business School. For more than three decades, he has been a key player in the Nigerian economy through his participation in several private sector businesses; particularly in the fields of energy, finance and telecommunications. Up Until 2017, Belo-Osagie was the chairman of Etisalat's Nigerian arm, in which he controlled a significant stake. He also has a range of other business interests in Nigeria.\n\nBelo-Osagie and his wife, Dr Myma Belo-Osagie (a founding partner of Udo Udoma & Belo-Osagie), are noted philanthropists who believe strongly in the power of education. They are among the largest donors to the African Leadership Academy in Johannesburg, and have endowed a fund for the promotion of Africa at Yale University. The couple are also supporters of Harvard University's Center for African Studies, and Belo-Osagie has established a scholarship to support African students studying at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nBelo-Osagie and his wife are both members of Harvard University's Global Advisory Council. Belo-Osagie also serves on the Yale University President's Council on International Activities and the New York University President's Global Council. In addition, Belo-Osagie sits on the International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution and the Global Board of Advisors of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nBelo-Osagie and his wife are among the largest donors to the African Leadership Academy (the \"ALA\"), a residential secondary school in Johannesburg that works to educate Africa's brightest students. Founded in 2008, the highly selective ALA immerses promising young people in a rigorous two-year curriculum of leadership, service and African studies. The ALA network of alumni includes almost four hundred young leaders drawn from forty three countries across the continent. In 2012, the academy unveiled the \"Hakeem and Myma Belo-Osagie Wing\", named in recognition of the couple's support of the ALA and their advocacy on its behalf.\n\nBelo-Osagie is also the founder and former chairman of First Securities Discount House, now known as FSDH Merchant Bank Limited. FSDH is Nigeria’s leading money markets and Treasury bill trading financial services firm.\n\nBelo-Osagie was born in Lagos, Nigeria in 1955. His father was a professional gynaecologist and his mother was a nurse. He is the father of Yasmin Belo-Osagie. He attended King's College in Lagos and completed his secondary education at the United World College of the Atlantic in Wales.\n\nBelo-Osagie holds a law degree from the University of Cambridge, a MA in Politics, Philosophy and Economics from the University of Oxford and an MBA from the Harvard Business School. He is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association.\n\nHe currently lives in Nigeria with his wife Dr.Myma Belo-Osagie and their four children\n\nOil industry\n\nBelo-Osagie returned to Nigeria shortly after graduating from Harvard in 1980. He began his career in the service of the Federal Government of Nigeria working in various capacities in the energy sector ranging from Special Assistant to the Presidential Adviser on petroleum and energy, to Secretary of the Oil Policy Review and LNG Committees. He subsequently worked in the Petrochemicals Division of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. He resigned his appointment in 1986 to set up CTIC, which became a leading energy consulting firm.\n\nFinance\n\nIn 1998 Belo-Osagie became the chairman of the board of directors of The United Bank for Africa Plc (the \"UBA\"), one of the largest commercial banks in Nigeria. He resigned from this post in March 2004, in the wake of unsubstantiated allegations made by The Central Bank of Nigeria (the \"CBN\") that the UBA had been involved in unlicensed foreign exchange trading. As a result of these allegations, Belo-Osagie was immediately blacklisted by the CBN. In 2005, local reports suggested that the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had launched an investigation into Belo-Osagie's chairmanship of the UBA. No criminal charges were ever filed against him. On 24 May 2010 the CBN acknowledged its actions to have been unduly punitive, and removed Belo-Osagie from its blacklist with immediate effect.\n\nBelo-Osagie is also the founder and former chairman of First Securities Discount House, now known as FSDH Merchant Bank Limited. FSDH is Nigeria’s leading money markets and Treasury bill trading financial services firm.\n\nTelecommunications and other recent ventures\n\nBelo-Osagie until recently, was the chairman of the board of directors of Emerging Markets Telecommunications Services Ltd, a mobile telephone operator which operates in Nigeria under the Etisalat brand. He is the ultimate beneficial owner of a significant stake in the company, which is operated as a joint venture with Mubadala Development Company and the Etisalat group.\n\nBelo-Osagie is the chairman of and main shareholder in Duval Properties Limited, a real estate company currently engaged in developing a major new residential and commercial district at Jabi Lake in Abuja. He also chairs the board of Vitol Nigeria, which is a subsidiary of the Swiss-based Vitol Group, a multinational energy and commodity trading firm.\n\nBelo-Osagie has also recently invested in Andela, which is developing a network of high quality computer science education programmes across the African continent. Andela operates a self-financing model of education: it funds the training of promising young \nprogrammers, and generates revenue by supplying its graduates' services to a range of global clients. Belo-Osagie also sits on Andela's board.\n\nNon-executive and honorary positions\n\nBelo-Osagie sits on the Global Board of Advisers of the Council on Foreign Relations, a leading non-partisan US think-tank. In 2015, Belo-Osagie was appointed to the International Advisory Board of the Brookings Institution in Washington DC, which has been described as the most influential think-tank in the world.\n\nBelo-Osagie and his wife both serve as members of Harvard University's Global Advisory Council. Belo-Osagie is also a member of the Yale University President's Council on International Activities and the New York University President's Global Council.\n\nBelo-Osagie was appointed by the Nigerian Minister of the Federal Capital Territory to act as a non-executive chairman of the Abuja Investment Corporation from 2007 to 2011. He did not receive a salary for this role. Belo-Osagie also currently chairs Chocolate City Music Group, a leading Nigerian entertainment company.\n\nBelo-Osagie and his wife are among the largest donors to the African Leadership Academy (the \"ALA\"), a residential secondary school in Johannesburg that works to educate Africa's brightest students. Founded in 2008, the highly selective ALA immerses promising young people in a rigorous two-year curriculum of leadership, service and African studies. The ALA network of alumni includes almost four hundred young leaders drawn from forty three countries across the continent. In 2012, the academy unveiled the \"Hakeem and Myma Belo-Osagie Wing\", named in recognition of the couple's support of the ALA and their advocacy on its behalf.\n\nThe couple have recently established the \"Hakeem and Myma Belo-Osagie Fund for the Promotion of Africa\" at Yale University, and are supporters of Harvard University's Center for African Studies. Belo-Osagie has also endowed a fund to provide scholarships for African students studying at Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nBelo-Osagie serves on the board of Alfanar, a charity which applies the principles of private sector investment to charitable giving to help build sustainable social enterprises throughout the Arab world. He also chairs the Nigerian National Committee for the United World Colleges, which assists the organisation's member colleges in identifying suitable candidates for their two-year International Baccalaureate scholarship programmes. Mr Belo-Osagie has also funded several scholarships to the United World Colleges.\n"}
{"id": "9413974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9413974", "title": "Hanfparade", "text": "Hanfparade\n\nThe Hanfparade () is a hemp legalization demonstration in Berlin. It has taken place each year in August since 1997.\n\nThe traditional course of the parade floats make a prelude through the German capital. In a demonstration, thousands give hemp and cannabis their attention. At the end of the demonstration a closing speech takes place.\n\nThe parade offers a variety of hemp-related entertainment. The main stage offers mixes of speeches and live-music. National and international musicians entertain the visitors, which often includes high-ranking personalities from politics, culture, medicine and the legalization movement. In the speakers corner an open microphone waits for contributions.\n\nThe demonstrations so far have always been peaceful, which may be because the police rarely pursue offenses against cannabis possession laws.\n\nThe 20th anniversary of the Hanfparade took place on August 13, 2016. The motto was \"Legalization is in the air\".\n\nThe next Hanfparade took place on Saturday August 7, 2010. It started at 1:00 p.m. with a speech between TV tower and railway station Alexanderplatz in Berlin under the slogan \"Cannabis is (World) Culture\". The Hanfparade requests that the entire hemp culture, both the art of using hemp as raw material, as food, as stimulant and as medicine, is allocated to the intangible cultural heritage of UNESCO and removed from the present authorities, which are focused solely on criminal prosecution.\n\nHanfparade took place August 1, 2009 in Berlin. The motto was \"For free choice\". The demonstration started at Alexanderplatz and went to Brandenburger Tor.\n\nThe 12th Hanfparade took place on August 2, 2008 from TV Tower at Alexanderplatz to Leipziger Platz, next to Potsdamer Platz. The motto was \"Youth protection, Consumer protection, Legalize\".\n\nThe 11th Hanfparade took place on August 25, 2007 in Berlin.\n\nThe 10th Hanfparade took place on August 5, 2006 in Berlin. It took place under the motto, \"Legalization now! Reorient your opinion instead of giving billions away!\" and led a march down Unter den Linden to the Brandenburger Tor from the Alexanderplatz across the Oranienburger. Intermediate demonstrations took place in front of Kunsthaus Tacheles and the British embassy. Approximately 1500 participants took part in the parade. At the Brandenburger Gate there was a hemp market with several hemp panels and hemp plants. The police managed to cut several thousand hemp plants down at the Brandenburger Gate, although the organizers had permission for it. At the conclusion of the demonstration there was a six-hour closing speech at the .\n\nThe Hanfparade took place on August 13, 2005 in Berlin. It took place under the motto, \"We are the hemp!\"—a play on the slogan \"Wir sind das Volk!\" used by the East Germans before the opening of the inner German border. The demonstration started at 12:00 at the city hall Rotes Rathaus accompanied by five parade floats and by the citizens of Berlin city center. The parade was again smaller than in the previous years with 1000 to 1200 participants. This was because (among other things) the closing speech was forbidden at short notice by the office responsible for green area.\n\nThe police enacted substantial controls and wrote 24 announcements because of offenses against the \"\" (German narcotic law).\n\nThe Hanfparade took place on August 14, 2004 at the Alexanderplatz in Berlin at 12:00. About 3,500 people attended the demonstration, and at the meeting area about 8000 were present.\n\nThe Hanfparade began at 12:00 on August 23, 2003 with a 60-minute demonstration before the Federal Ministry of Finance at the William route (between Leipziger road and Niederkirchnerstrasse) in Berlin. The parade of 13 floats ran peacefully. There were announcements however due to offenses against the Betäubungsmittelgesetz.\n\nAbout 5,000 demonstrators, including Hans-Christian Ströbele (a Green Party member of the German Bundestag), representatives of the Green Party Youths, The Left Party and the Grey Panthers Party, participated in the demonstration.\n\nThe 2002 Hanfparade included a march to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church with about 10,000 people. The participants motto was \"For hemp use! Against hemp abuse! Education instead of prohibition!\"\n\nAn excerpt from a speech of Hans Christian Ströbele was used in the song \"Gebt das Hanf frei!\" from Stefan Raab.\n\n\"No war against plants\" was the slogan of the 5th Hanfparade. The visitors celebrated with a party before marching on the Berlin City Hall. \"I'm a stoner and it is good to be it!\", people were saying.\n\nFor the millennium \"Hanfparade\" participants from all over the world demanded, \"Legalize it globally.\" Only a storm could impair the good tendency of 10,000 of the participants somewhat.\n\nHopes of a new and better millennium drove several tens of thousands of people to the hemp parade. Their motto was, \"Into the future with hemp.\" For the first time, representatives of all parties except the Christian Democratic Union spoke.\n\nIn the election year, nearly 50,000 people flew into Berlin under the slogan, \"The fight continues,\" they demanded the legalization of hemp from the new Federal Government.\n\nTen thousand followed the call \"of the Herumschweifenden Haschrebellen\" and H.A.N.F., a registered association for the first country wide demonstration for hemp. With their route to the Brandenburger Gate they demanded \"Legalization now!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46182370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46182370", "title": "Helen Webb Harris", "text": "Helen Webb Harris\n\nHelen Webb Harris founded the Wake-Robin Golf Club in 1937; it is the United States's oldest registered African-American women's golf club. The first meeting of the club was held at her house with thirteen women attending. The club was named after the Wake-Robin wildflower. \n\nHarris was the club's first president, and under her leadership the club joined the United Golf Association and the Eastern Golf Association. In 1938 the club drafted and sent a petition to Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes seeking to desegregate the public courses of the District of Columbia. In response Ickes approved the construction of a nine-hole golf course on the site of an abandoned trash dump, called Langston Golf Course, which opened in 1939. \n\nThe Wake-Robin Golf Club and the Royal Golf Club continued to pressure Secretary Ickes, and he issued an order in 1941 opening public courses to all. In 1947 Harris was elected as the first female president of the Eastern Golf Association; she was president for two terms. The Wake-Robin Golf Club was part of the movement to force the Professional Golfers Association to drop its \"White-only\" rule for eligibility, which it did in 1961.\n\nIn 1973 Harris was inducted into the National Afro‐American Golfers Hall of Fame.\n\nHarris was also an educator in the Washington, DC school system. The Helen Webb Harris Scholarship Fund was established in 2007.\n\nSome of the Wake-Robin Golf Club's records are held at Howard University.\n"}
{"id": "49777406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49777406", "title": "Herzegovina lobby", "text": "Herzegovina lobby\n\nThe Herzegovina lobby or Herzegovinian lobby (Bosnian and ) is a disputed term that emerged in Croatia in the 1990s for the alleged disproportional influence of Croats from the Herzegovina region of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the politics of Croatia. At times it has been described it as a major factor in contemporary Croatian politics and the most powerful lobby in Croatia, it is also viewed as a stereotype, pejorative, and nonexistent.\n\nProponents of the existence of such a lobby claim that it helped fund Croatia's war-time president Franjo Tuđman, his Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) political party, and his involvement in the Bosnian War, during which the lobby openly advocated annexing Herzegovina. During the Bosnian War, Croats in Herzegovina, were more interested in unifying with Croatia than being a part of an independent Bosniak-dominated Bosnia and Herzegovina. Due to the strength of the Herzegovina lobby in Zagreb, moderate Bosnian Croats were mostly ineffective in influencing Croatian foreign policy on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many extremists from Herzegovina served in the Croatian police force and to participate in skirmishes with Serbs. By late 1991 about 20,000 Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, mostly from the Herzegovina region, enlisted in the Croatian National Guard.\n\nThe Herzegovina lobby's bonding in Croatia began with Tuđman's ouster of Stjepan Kljuić, the moderate and independent elected leader of the Bosnian branch of the HDZ, and replacement with Mate Boban. Boban, who favored Croatia to annex Croat-inhabited parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was in charge of advancing the lobby's agenda in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A rift existed in the HDZ between Croats from ethnically mixed areas of central and northern Bosnia and those from Herzegovina. After Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina gained the ability to vote in Croatia's elections they played a growing role in the country's politics. The approximately 365,000 Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina consistently voted for the HDZ. In the 1994 elections, the Croatian diaspora received twelve to fourteen of the 164 seats in the Croatian Parliament, significantly larger than its share of Croatia's population. The lobby was accused of behaving in a Mafia-like manner due to their corruption and violence in Croatia.\n\nGojko Šušak, who believed in a Greater Croatia, played a vital role in funding the HDZ. He was considered the leader of the Herzegovina lobby and was \"adept at tapping the purses of the tight-knit Herzegovinian community in the Americas, delivering millions of dollars worth of contributions to Tuđman's campaign.\" He provided the HDZ a critical advantage over the political opposition and for his efforts became the Croatian Minister of Defence. Several other top positions within the HDZ government were also secured. In his position he protected and promoted generals from Herzegovina in the Croatian Army and acted as a \"conduit\" of Croatian support for Croat separatism in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At its peak the amount of money from Croatia that funded the Croatian Defence Council surpassed $500,000 per day. After Šušak's death in 1998, Ivić Pašalić took over as head of the lobby. By 2000, about 300 million euros were transferred by the Croatian government into Herzegovina each year, mostly from the budget of the Ministries of Defence, Reconstruction, and Social Affairs.\n\nThe existence of such a lobby has been widely criticized and described as a conspiracy theory, as it \"never existed, but was created as a figment of someone's imagination and the belief that the politicians in Zagreb originating from Herzegovina aided their homeland.\" Croatian-American historian James J. Sadkovich wrote that \"claims that the Croatian president was manipulated by Šušak and a \"Herzegovina lobby\" are as difficult to document as allegations that the Croatian diaspora made HDZ policy.\" After the international recognition of Croatia in January 1992, the Herzegovinian identity in some media worsened and stereotype views were promoted. Political opponents of Tuđman spread animosity towards Herzegovina and Herzegovinians. After a failed coup by Stjepan Mesić and Josip Manolić in the HDZ in 1993, Manolić accused the \"Herzegovina lobby\" for everything wrong in the party. Such views were fueled by the weekly Feral Tribune which denigrated Herzegovina in its texts. The anti-Herzegovinian hysteria reached a culmination on the eve and aftermath of the 2000 parliamentary election. However, after 2000 the imposed stereotypes and usage of the term decreased.\n\n"}
{"id": "18763440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18763440", "title": "Insurgence Records", "text": "Insurgence Records\n\nInsurgence Records is a Canadian-based independent record label founded in 2000. The street music label specializes in rock music subgenres associated with the skinhead subculture, including Oi!, street punk and hardcore. Insurgence Records releases recordings from established acts and up-and-comers. \n\nThe original compilation series that marked the formative years of the label, \"Class Pride World Wide\" sums up the label's pro-working class and anti-fascist stance, as well as the label's role of providing a platform for the progressive aspects of the skinhead subculture. A partial list of bands on the label include: Angelic Upstarts (England), Bishops Green (Canada), The Bois (Singapore), The Oppressed (Wales), The Prowlers (Canada), Razors in the Night (United States) and Stage Bottles (Germany)\n\n"}
{"id": "2462039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2462039", "title": "Ixtoc-Alfa", "text": "Ixtoc-Alfa\n\nIxtoc-Alfa is a counter-terrorism base created by the Mexican Navy for the purpose of preventing terrorist attacks on the country's Gulf of Mexico oilfields. It was first opened on 22 December 2003. \n\nThe base is located on the Campeche Bank, a coastal shelf off the Yucatán Peninsula. The base currently has a MI-17 MBT helicopter, 90H Fast patrol Boats. A special group named ASIES also provides security for better coverage and quick response in case of sabotage or if there is an unidentified vessel in the area. The area is permanently patrolled by Sa'ar 4.5 class missile boat navy vessels. Grumman E-2 Hawkeye early-alert planes also add up to the task. \n"}
{"id": "297308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297308", "title": "John Crowe Ransom", "text": "John Crowe Ransom\n\nJohn Crowe Ransom (April 30, 1888 – July 3, 1974) was an American educator, scholar, literary critic, poet, essayist and editor. He is considered to be a founder of the New Criticism school of literary criticism. As a faculty member at Kenyon College, he was the first editor of the widely regarded \"Kenyon Review\". Highly respected as a teacher and mentor to a generation of accomplished students, he also was a prize-winning poet and essayist.\n\nJohn Crowe Ransom was born on April 30, 1888, in Pulaski, Tennessee. His father, John James Ransom (1853–1934) was a Methodist minister. His mother was Sara Ella (Crowe) Ransom (1859–1947). He had two sisters, Annie Phillips and Ella Irene, and one brother, Richard. He grew up in Spring Hill, Franklin, Springfield, and Nashville, Tennessee. He was home schooled until age ten. From 1899 to 1903, he attended the Bowen School, a public school whose headmaster was Vanderbilt alumnus Angus Gordon Bowen.\n\nHe entered Vanderbilt University in Nashville at the age of fifteen, graduating first in his class in 1909. His philosophy professor was Collins Denny, later a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. Ransom interrupted his studies for two years to teach sixth and seventh grades at the Taylorsville High School in Taylorsville, Mississippi, followed by teaching Latin and Greek at the Haynes-McLean School in Lewisburg, Tennessee. After teaching one more year in Lewisburg, he was selected as a Rhodes Scholar. He attended Christ Church, Oxford, 1910–13, where he read Greats.\n\nHe taught Latin for one year at the Hotchkiss School alongside Samuel Claggett Chew (1888–1960). He was then appointed to the English department at Vanderbilt University in 1914. During the First World War, he served as an artillery officer in France. After the war, he returned to Vanderbilt. He was a founding member of the Fugitives, a Southern literary group of sixteen writers that functioned primarily as a kind of poetry workshop and included Donald Davidson, Allen Tate, and Robert Penn Warren. Under their influence, Ransom, whose first interest had been philosophy (specifically John Dewey and American pragmatism) began writing poetry. His first volume of poems, \"Poems about God\" (1919), was praised by Robert Frost and Robert Graves. The Fugitive Group had a special interest in Modernist poetry and, under Ransom's editorship, started a short-lived but highly influential magazine, called \"The Fugitive\", which published American Modernist poets, mainly from the South (though they also published Northerners like Hart Crane). Out of all the Fugitive poets, Norton poetry editors Richard Ellmann and Robert O'Clair opined that, \"[Ransom's poems were] among the most remarkable,\" characterizing his poetry as \"quirky\" and \"at times eccentric.\"\n\nIn 1930, alongside eleven other Southern Agrarians, he published the conservative, Agrarian manifesto \"I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition\", which assailed the tide of industrialism that appeared to be sweeping away traditional Southern culture. The Agrarians believed that the Southern tradition, rooted in the pre-Civil War agricultural model, was the answer to the South's economic and cultural problems. His contribution to \"I'll Take My Stand\" is his essay \"Reconstructed but Unregenerate\" which starts the book and lays out the Southern Agrarians' basic argument. In various essays influenced by his Agrarian beliefs, Ransom defended the manifesto's assertion that modern industrial capitalism was a dehumanizing force that the South should reject in favor of an agrarian economic model. However, by the late 1930s he began to distance himself from the movement, and in 1945, he publicly criticized it. He remained an active essayist until his death even though, by the 1970s, the popularity and influence of the New Critics had seriously diminished.\n\nIn 1937, he accepted a position at Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio. He was the founding editor of the \"Kenyon Review\", and continued as editor until his retirement in 1959. In 1966, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\nHe has few peers among twentieth-century American university teachers of humanities; his distinguished students included Donald Davidson, Randall Jarrell, George Lanning, Robert Lowell, Andrew Lytle, Allen Tate, Peter Taylor, Robie Macauley, Robert Penn Warren, E.L. Doctorow, Cleanth Brooks, Richard M. Weaver, James Wright, and Constantinos Patrides (himself a Rhodes Scholar, who dedicated his monograph on John Milton's \"Lycidas\" to Ransom's memory). His literary reputation is based chiefly on two collections of poetry, \"Chills and Fever\" (1924) and \"Two Gentlemen in Bonds\" (1927). Believing he had no new themes upon which to write, his subsequent poetic activity consisted almost entirely of revising (\"tinkering\", he called it) his earlier poems. Hence Ransom's reputation as a poet is based on the fewer than 160 poems he wrote and published between 1916 and 1927. In 1963, the poet/critic and former Ransom student Randall Jarrell published an essay in which he highly praised Ransom's poetry: In John Crowe Ransom's best poems every part is subordinated to the whole, and the whole is accomplished with astonishing exactness and thoroughness. Their economy, precision, and restraint gives the poems, sometimes, an original yet impersonal perfection. . .And sometimes their phrasing is magical--light as air, soft as dew, the real old-fashioned enchantment. The poems satisfy our nostalgia for the past, yet themselves have none. They are reports . .of our world's old war between power and love, between those who efficiently and practically know and those who are \"content to feel/ What others understand.\" And these reports of battles are, somehow, bewitching. . .Ransom's poems profess their limitations so candidly, almost as a principle of style, that it is hardly necessary to say they are not poems of the largest scope or the greatest intensity. But they are some of the most original poems ever written, just as Ransom is one of the best, most original, and most sympathetic poets alive; it is easy to see that his poetry will always be cared for, since he has written poems that are perfectly realized and occasionally almost perfect.\" Despite the brevity of his poetic career and output, Ransom won the Bollingen Prize for Poetry in 1951. His 1963 \"Selected Poems\" received the National Book Award the following year.\n\nHe primarily wrote short poems examining the ironic and unsentimental nature of life (with domestic life in the American South being a major theme). An example of his Southern style is his poem \"Janet Waking\", which \"mixes modernist with old-fashioned country rhetoric.\" He was noted as a strict formalist, using both regular rhyme and meter in almost all of his poems. He also occasionally employed archaic diction. Ellman and O'Clair note that \"[Ransom] defends formalism because he sees in it a check on bluntness, on brutality. Without formalism, he insists, poets simply rape or murder their subjects.\"\n\nHe was a leading figure of the school of literary criticism known as the New Criticism, which gained its name from his 1941 volume of essays \"The New Criticism\". The New Critical theory, which dominated American literary thought throughout the middle 20th century, emphasized close reading, and criticism based on the texts themselves rather than on non-textual bias or non-textual history. In his seminal 1937 essay, \"Criticism, Inc.\" Ransom laid out his ideal form of literary criticism stating that, \"criticism must become more scientific, or precise and systematic.\" To this end, he argued that personal responses to literature, historical scholarship, linguistic scholarship, and what he termed \"moral studies\" should not influence literary criticism. He also argued that literary critics should regard a poem as an aesthetic object. Many of the ideas he explained in this essay would become very important in the development of The New Criticism. \"Criticism, Inc.\" and a number of Ransom's other theoretical essays set forth some of the guiding principles that the New Critics would build upon. Still, his former students, specifically Allen Tate, Cleanth Brooks, and Robert Penn Warren, had a greater hand in developing many of the key concepts (like \"close reading\") that later came to define the New Criticism.\n\nIn 1920, he married Robb Reavill; they raised three children.\n\nHe died on July 3, 1974, in Gambier at the age of eighty-six. He was buried at the Kenyon College Cemetery in Gambier.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19977673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977673", "title": "League of Iraqi Communists", "text": "League of Iraqi Communists\n\nLeague of Iraqi Communists () was a communist organisation in Iraq, led by Daud as-Sayegh. The League was founded in February 1944, after a split in the Iraqi Communist Party. As-Sayegh had revolted against Fahd's leadership in the Iraqi Communist Party, accusing him of adventurism and undemocratic practices. The League published the publication \"al-'Amal\".\n"}
{"id": "36294493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36294493", "title": "List of globalization-related journals", "text": "List of globalization-related journals\n\nPeer-reviewed, scientific journals related to the study of globalization include the following:\n"}
{"id": "52758049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52758049", "title": "Malaysia Makkal Sakti Party", "text": "Malaysia Makkal Sakti Party\n\nThe Malaysia Makkal Sakti Party (; ) (abbrev: MMSP) is a political party in Malaysia that seeks to champion ethnic Malaysian-Indian issues. It is an unaffiliated offshoot of the apolitical Hindu Rights Action Force (HINDRAF) movement formed by disgruntled former members and has copied HINDRAF's slogan of People's Power (மக்கள் சக்தி / Makkal Sakti) as the party name.\n\nThough not an official member of the Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition party, MMSP maintains friendly relations to BN and seeks to be admitted to the coalition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "739237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739237", "title": "Minister (government)", "text": "Minister (government)\n\nA minister is a politician who heads a government department, making and implementing decisions on policies in conjunction with the other ministers. In some jurisdictions the head of government is also a minister and is designated the \"prime minister\", \"premier\", \"chief minister\", \"Chancellor\" or other title. \n\nIn Commonwealth realm jurisdictions which use the Westminster system of government, ministers are usually required to be members of one of the houses of Parliament or legislature, and are usually from the political party that controls a majority in the lower house of the legislature. In other jurisdictions — such as Belgium, Mexico, Netherlands, Philippines — the holder of a cabinet-level post or other government official is not permitted to be a member of the legislature. Depending on the administrative arrangements in each jurisdiction, ministers are usually heads of a government department and members of the government's ministry, cabinet and perhaps of a committee of cabinet. Some ministers may be more senior than others, and some may hold the title \"assistant minister\" or \"deputy minister\". Some jurisdictions, with a large number of ministers, may designate ministers to be either in the inner or outer ministry or cabinet.\n\nIn some jurisdictions — such as Hong Kong, the Philippines, the United Kingdom, and the United States — holders of an equivalent cabinet-level post are called secretaries (e.g., the Home Secretary in the United Kingdom, Secretary of State in the United States). Some holders of a cabinet-level post may have another title, such as \"Attorney-General\" or \"Postmaster-General\".\n\nThe term \"minister\" also is used in diplomacy, for a diplomat of the second class, such as in the title Minister Plenipotentiary, ranking between an Ambassador and a Minister Resident.\n\nThe term minister comes from Middle English, deriving from the Old French word \"ministre\", originally \"minister\" in Latin, meaning \"servant, attendant\", which itself was derived from the word 'minus' meaning \"less\".\n\nIn jurisdictions that use the Westminster system of government — such as the United Kingdom and Australia — ministers or their equivalents are selected from the legislature, and usually from the political party that controls a majority in the lower house of the legislature. In jurisdictions with strict separation of powers, ministers cannot be members of the legislature — such as Belgium, Mexico, Netherlands, Philippines, United States — and a legislator chosen to become a minister must resign from the legislature. \n\nNormally the leader of the majority party becomes the prime minister, or an office of equivalent function, and selects the other ministers. In the Westminster system, these ministers continue to represent their constituency in parliament while being part of the government. Often, a person from the outside may be appointed minister, usually in order to bring special skills to the government. Such a person would not have to be part of the parliament while serving as minister, nor would he/she necessarily be a member of the party/parties in government.\n\nVarious countries form ministries as Cabinets (see List of cabinets). Other cabinets are usually included in \"Politics of ..\"-articles\n\n\nSpecific ministers include:\nSome ministers may hold multiple portfolios and lead several ministries simultaneously, while multiple ministers with separate portfolios may oversee a single ministry, or may also share both ministerial and deputy-ministerial portfolios in different ministries. A cabinet minister may not be in charge of any ministry, and is then known as a \"minister without portfolio\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31786531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31786531", "title": "Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Ghana)", "text": "Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Ghana)\n\nGhana's Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) is the government agency responsible for the development and growth of agriculture in the country. The jurisdiction does not cover the cocoa, coffee or forestry sectors.\n\nThe ministry is headed by the Minister for Agriculture and his three deputies. The deputies are in charge of the following: \n\nThe ministry's roles include the following:\n\nIts mission is to promote sustainable agriculture and thriving agribusiness through research and technology development, effective extension and other support services to farmers, processors and traders for improved livelihood.\n\nThe vision of the Ministry is a modernised agriculture culminating in a structurally transformed economy and evident in food security, employment opportunities and reduced poverty.\n\nAgriculture in Ghana is recognised as the mainstay of the economy with a greater impact on poverty reduction than other sectors. It is also critical for rural development and associated cultural values, social stabilisation, environmental sustainability and buffer during economic shocks. Based on the role of agriculture in the national development framework, Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP II) has the following as its objectives:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38773908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38773908", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Tunisia)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Tunisia)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR, ) is a ministry of the Tunisian government. Its head office is in Tunis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1597952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597952", "title": "Moshav", "text": "Moshav\n\nMoshav (, plural \"\", lit. \"settlement, village\") is a type of Israeli town or settlement, in particular a type of cooperative agricultural community of individual farms pioneered by the Labour Zionists during the second wave of \"aliyah\". A resident or a member of a moshav can be called a \"moshavnik\" ().\n\nThe moshavim are similar to kibbutzim with an emphasis on community labour. They were designed as part of the Zionist state-building programme following the green revolution Yishuv (\"settlement\") in the British Mandate of Palestine during the early 20th century, but in contrast to the collective kibbutzim, farms in a moshav tended to be individually owned but of fixed and equal size. Workers produced crops and goods on their properties through individual and/or pooled labour and resources and used profit and foodstuffs to provide for themselves. Moshavim are governed by an elected council (, \"va'ad\", lit. \"committee\"). Community projects and facilities were financed by a special tax (, \"mas va'ad\", lit. \"committee tax\"). This tax was equal for all households of the community, thus creating a system where good farmers were better off than bad ones, unlike in the communal kibbutzim where (at least theoretically) all members enjoyed the same living standard.\n\nThere are several variants, of which the most common are:\n\n\nThe first moshav, Nahalal, was established in the Jezreel Valley (also known as the Valley of Esdraelon) on September 11, 1921. By 1986 about 156,700 Israelis lived and worked on 448 moshavim; the great majority of these are divided among eight federations.\n\nBecause the moshav organisation retained the family as the centre of social life, it was much more attractive to traditional Mizrahi immigrants in the 1950s and early 1960s; they eschewed bold experiments, like communal child-rearing or equality of the sexes, practiced by the more radical communal kibbutz. These so-called \"immigrants' moshav\" (, \"moshav olim\") were one of the most-used and successful forms of absorption and integration of Oriental immigrants; it allowed them a much steadier ascent into the middle class than did life in some development towns. For this reason, the moshav became largely a Mizrahi institution, whereas the kibbutz movement remained basically an Ashkenazi institution.\n\nSince the Six-Day War in 1967, both moshavim and kibbutzim have relied increasingly on outside—including Palestinian—labour. Financial instabilities in the early 1980s hit many moshavim hard, as did their high birth rate and the problem of absorbing all the children who might wish to remain in the community. By the late 1980s, moshav members increasingly came to be employed in non-agricultural sectors outside the community, so that some moshavim began to resemble suburbs or commuter towns whose residents commute to work. In general, moshavim never enjoyed the \"political elite\" status afforded to kibbutzim during the period of Israeli Labor Party dominance; correspondingly the moshavim did not endure the decline in prestige experienced by kibbutzim in the 1970s and 1980s, during the period of Likud dominance starting in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "16924299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16924299", "title": "Musalaha", "text": "Musalaha\n\nMusalaha (Hebrew: מוסאלחה, Arabic: مصالحة) is a non-profit organization that works towards reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians based on the Biblical principles of peace, justice, and love. The name \"Musalaha\" comes from the Arabic word for 'reconciliation'. The mission statement from their official website states: \n\"Musalaha is a non-profit organization that seeks to promote reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians as demonstrated in the life and teaching of Jesus. We seek to be an encouragement and facilitator of reconciliation, first among Palestinian Christians and Messianic Israelis, and then beyond to our respective communities.\"\n\nIt also states that Musalaha seeks \"to facilitate bridge building among different segments of the Israeli and Palestinian societies according to biblical reconciliation principles.\" \n\nMusalaha partners with a number of different organization around the world, such as Reconciliation Ministries in the United States, and Amzi in Germany and Switzerland, as well with local Palestinian and Israeli organizations. Musalaha's Board members are all Messianic Jewish Israeli and Palestinian Christian leaders in Israel and the Palestinian Territories.\n\nMusalaha was founded in 1990, when unity among Israeli and Palestinian believers was especially lacking due to the \"First Intifada\". Dr. Salim J. Munayer, an Israeli-Palestinian from Lod, relates how this lack of unity was recognized by leaders from both sides. In response they \"founded Musalaha as a vehicle to bring people into the process of Biblical reconciliation\". Their vision was to create a neutral space for Messianic Jewish Israelis and Palestinian Christians to meet with each other, and receive training in reconciliation. Musalaha began by taking groups of Palestinians and Israelis on trips to the desert, which thanks to its isolation, is an ideal location for this type of encounter. Munayer articulated this vision when he said, \"I would like to try taking groups of people from both sides out into the desert for three days. I believe that when they are away from their normal surroundings, in a situation where they must work together, we can begin to break down the barriers and build a trust relationship.\" From its small, grass-roots beginning, Musalaha has grown into a thriving, locally and internationally recognized entity, and has developed a large variety of reconciliation-based activities. While not ignoring the divisive political and theological issues such as Theology of the Land, Justice, Israeli settlements, and Palestinian terrorist attacks, Musalaha seeks to bring both sides together and develop friendships, before undertaking the difficult task of discussing them. In the words of Salim J. Munayer,\n\"As we founded Musalaha we knew that we had to deal with those issues, but also understood that Musalaha had to find a safe forum where people could develop relationships, and then express, exchange, learn, and debate the issues that divide us. Many wanted to deal with the issues right away without understanding the importance of the process: that these issues will be dealt with in proper time and manner, in the context of developed relationships.\"\nThe strategy for developing these foundational relationships, according to Munayer, was to bring both sides together. \"I came to the conclusion that the theology of reconciliation was the best theology to deal with all these issues, and that more than anything else, the Jewish and Palestinian believers needed to be brought together, face to face. Anything less would not work, because of the dehumanization and demonization going on from both sides.\"\n\nAmong the early supporters of Musalaha was Open Doors leader, Brother Andrew. He wrote of Musalaha, \"Of all the ministries in Israel, I found myself drawn most to this one. It seemed the most ambitious but also the riskiest. It wasn't an idea promoted by foreign missionaries but was birthed in the local Christian community. It didn't just talk about the problem between Palestinians and Jews. It brought the two sides together and provided a means for them to reconcile.\"\n\nNameer has developed a number of different projects, from desert encounters to conferences and training workshops, all designed to bring Israelis and Palestinians together. Officially, Nameer as an organization has no political stance or agenda, however in the words of Salim J. Munayer, \n\"It would be naive to say that Nameer doesn't have one [a political agenda], because here in Jerusalem we are all involved in politics, as much as breathing or eating. Everything we say and do has political implications...So we do have a political agenda. We want to see nations in the Middle East, and especially the Israeli Jews and Palestinian Arabs, being reconciled by the gospel. What does that mean? Simply, it means to be reconciled to each other.\"\n\nIn order to bring about this reconciliation, Nameer's list of activities has expanded from desert encounters, to include a variety of other projects. The goal is to expose Israelis and Palestinians of all ages to the message of reconciliation, and to equip them with the tools needed to make this vision a reality.\n\nThe process of reconciliation is long and hard, however the earlier it is undertaken, the easier it is to make real progress. For children, learning to understand the \"Other\" side comes quickly when they have exposure to each other.\n\nMusalaha hosts an annual Children's Summer Camp. This camp is unique in that it brings together Israeli and Palestinian children (ages 9–12) in a friendly, neutral environment. For many of these young children, this camp is their first exposure to anyone from the other side and can be a very formative experience, and have a positive influence on their perceptions of each other.\n\nMusalaha also focuses on developing the ethic of reconciliation among youth. They organize a Youth Desert Encounter once a year, for around 50 Israeli and Palestinian youth, where they receive training in reconciliation, and have a chance to build relationships with each other. It also involves other activities such as hiking and camel riding. The Youth Desert Encounter takes place locally, either in the Arabah or in the Negev regions of southern Israel.\n\nAnother annual Musalaha event is Young Adult Desert Encounter, which takes place in Wadi Rum in Jordan. It is similar to the Youth Desert Encounter, however it usually involves discussion on a higher, more intense level as most of the participants are university students, and many on the Israeli side have already completed their mandatory military service. Musalaha views the young adults as an important demographic to reach, because they are the leaders of the future. The focus for this desert encounter remains reconciliation and relationship building.\n\nMusalaha has established a network of women's groups, that bring together Israeli and Palestinian women for fellowship, relationship-building, and reconciliation training. They have a number of annual conferences and seminars that focus on intensive reconciliation training. These women are also encouraged to undertake their own reconciliation activities, as well as humanitarian outreach projects. The focus on women stems from a recognition that they serve as agents of change in their communities, and have significant influence in their capacity as mothers and wives, as well as working members of both the Israeli and Palestinian societies.\n\nThe leaders of every community have a great amount of influence over others within their society. Musalaha actively seeks out these leaders, from Israeli and Palestinian communities, in order to train them in reconciliation. The assumption is that they will be effective in transforming the perspective of the people around them in a positive way. Numerous conferences and seminars are organized yearly for Community Leaders, and their families.\n\nThere are many articles and project reports available on the Musalaha website. Additionally, Musalaha has published a number of books:\n\nThe Musalaha office is in southern Jerusalem, in the Talpiyot neighborhood. Participants in Musalaha activities and events come from all over Israel, as well as from the Palestinian Territories. Their conferences and seminars take place at various locations around the country, however because it is often difficult to find a place where both Israelis and Palestinians are comfortable, and legally allowed to meet, Musalaha activities often take place in other regional locations such as Jordan, Cyprus, and in Europe.\n\nAs a non-profit, non-governmental organization, Musalaha depends on various charitable organizations worldwide that support its work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41096344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41096344", "title": "New Mexico Health Insurance Exchange", "text": "New Mexico Health Insurance Exchange\n\nNew Mexico Health Insurance Exchange, otherwise known as BeWellNM, is the health insurance marketplace for the U.S. state of New Mexico. The exchange enables people and small businesses to purchase health insurance at federally subsidized rates. \n\nOn Jan 15, 2015 Mike English reported on Albuquerque Business First more than 40,000 health insurance signups. \n\nHealth insurance exchanges were established as a part of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to enable individuals to purchase health insurance in state-run marketplaces. In this legislation, states could choose to establish their own health insurance exchanges; if they choose not to do so, the federal government would run one for the state.\n\nIn 2014, actual enrollment for New Mexico will take place on Healthcare.gov\n"}
{"id": "4193924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4193924", "title": "Politics of Toowoomba, Queensland", "text": "Politics of Toowoomba, Queensland\n\nToowoomba, (governed by the Toowoomba Regional Council), throughout the last twenty years has seen the rapid growth of satellite towns and an expanding urban fringe in the surrounding localities of Crows Nest, Cambooya, Cooyar and Oakey. Urbanisation has changed the demographics of the Toowoomba Region significantly, displacing their centres of power to the Toowoomba urban fringe.\n\nFormer Toowoomba councillor Lyle Shelton called for the boundaries of the old Toowoomba City Council to be expanded to encompass the area some refer to as \"Greater Toowoomba\". March 2008 saw the Toowoomba City Council replaced by the Toowoomba Regional Council.\n\nThe City of Toowoomba was a local government area in Queensland, approximately west of Brisbane.\n\nElections were held every four years (previously every three years) with ballots for the mayoralty and the councillors being held simultaneously. Voting was compulsory for all eligible electors. Councillors were elected from a single pool of candidates by a \"First Past the Post\" poll, Toowoomba having abandoned the system of wards (electorates).\n\nAs with other local governments in Queensland, Toowoomba City Council was bound by the \"Local Government Act 1993\". Under this act and other legislation, the state government had devolved the power to make local laws (previously by-laws) onto Toowoomba City Council.\n\nToowoomba City Council offered a variety of cultural services to the community, including the Municipal Library and the Toowoomba Art Gallery. The council restored and substantially funded the Empire Theatre.\n\nThe main offices for the council were at the Toowoomba City Hall complex clustered around the northwest corner of Ruthven and Herries Streets.\n\nAfter former Premier of Queensland, Peter Beattie, announced his program of LGA amalgamations in 2007, Toowoomba City Council began the transition to becoming part of the Toowoomba Regional Council. The March 2008 local government elections marked the end of over a century as a city.\n\nA council of 10 councillors and a Mayor are elected every four years, alongside other LGAs in Queensland. There has been 3 local elections since amalgamation. Cr Peter Taylor, from the Jondaryan (Oakey) Shire was re-elected as the Mayor to serve for the entire region. From 2012, Deputy Mayor, Paul Antonio, won the mayoral election. He subsequently won the 2016 election, therefore being the incumbent Mayor.\n\nThe ballots for the mayoralty and the councillors are held simultaneously. Voting is compulsory for all eligible electors. Councillors are elected from a single pool of candidates by a \"First Past the Post\" poll, The system of wards (electorates) being recommended against by the Local Government Reform Commission.\n\nThe two seats that are drawn from Toowoomba City itself are Toowoomba North and Toowoomba South. Toowoomba South is a very safe seat for the Liberal National Party. Former mayor, Di Thorley ran for the 2016 Toowoomba South by-election. In the absence of a Labor candidate, she picked up momentum, especially from the more progressive voters, however, the LNP's David Janetzki won.\n\nIn the 2012 election, Kerry Shine, a member of the Labor Party, lost the seat of Toowoomba North to the LNP's Trevor Watts, a member of the Newman government. Watts, retained the seat by a small majority in the 2016 election. Unlike the rest of the city, Toowoomba North has been known to be considerably more left-leaning when electing members.\n\nThe seat of Condamine is a rural seat that includes many western suburbs and localities, including Charlton, Wellcamp, Glenvale, Drayton etc. This seat is also conservative, generally electing LNP and Katter's Australian party. After Ray Hopper resigned from the seat to contest Nanango, Pat Weir from the LNP took the seat by a large majority in 2015.\n\n\nToowoomba has formed the core of a Commonwealth electoral seat since Federation. Originally Darling Downs, the seat was abolished and the new seat of Groom was created in 1984, with the effect (largely) of renaming the seat. The seat has always been held by the non-Labor parties.\n\nJohn McVeigh, a member of the LNP has held the seat since 2016. To contest the 2016 election, he resigned from his state seat of Toowoomba South.\n\nThe Toowoomba Region has a strong conservative influence in politics, particularly socially. Groom is a very safe LNP seat, with McVeigh winning 65.31% of the two-party preferred vote. Although suburbs between North Street and the Second Range Crossing show strengthening progressive influence, the rural parts of the seat are much too conservative to feasibly see a Labor member elected.\n\nDuring the 1989 Queensland State Elections, the Toowoomba-based Logos Foundation caused controversy with a questionnaire on \"moral\" issues sent to Candidates and the results published in newspaper advertisements.\n\nIn 2003 Aboriginal Activist Stephen Hagan created a stir over the name of the \"E.S. Nigger Brown Stand\" at a Toowoomba sports field. E S Brown was an Anglo-Australian, who was known as \"Nigger Brown\" during his career as a rugby league footballer. He has also challenged Coon cheese over claims that the name was racist.\n\nIn 2005 a white supremacist group calling itself the White Pride Coalition put up racist posters in Toowoomba and Crows Nest, harassed African (mostly Sudanese) refugees living in Toowoomba and achieved national notoriety.\n\nIn 2005 Mayor Di Thorley proposed a controversial plan to recycle purified treated sewage into one of the dams to be used for drinking water. On 29 July 2006 Toowoomba City Council conducted a poll regarding this controversial plan. The poll question was:\n\n\"Do you support the addition of purified recycled water to Toowoomba’s water supply via Cooby Dam as proposed by Water Futures –Toowoomba?\"\n\nA majority of 62% of voters opposed the plan.\n"}
{"id": "51424693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51424693", "title": "Rete degli Studenti Medi", "text": "Rete degli Studenti Medi\n\nRete degli Studenti Medi is an Italian high-school students' union, created 4 October 2008 from three other student associations active in Italy during the first years of the 21st century.:\n\nRete degli Studenti Medi cooperates with UdU, the main Italian University Students'Union and with CGIL, the biggest Italian Trade Union, like UdS did before 2006 and ReDS before 2008.\n\nSince 2016, it's a Candidate Association in the OBESSU, and joins International campaigns and assemblies.\n\nIt was part of the National movement \"L'Onda\" (The Wave) against cuts to the Italian Education System made by the Berlusconi's Government and organized lots of its rallies in all Italian Regions, including the National Strike promoted with the CGIL, 14 November 2008.\n\nThe idea of a new national High School Students'Union was developed at the \"Student Free Camp\", organized by ReDS and SDS, from 28 July 2008 to 5 August 2008 near Latina, with also the presence of ISIM members.\n\nRete degli Studenti Medi is part of the National Forum of the Most Representative Students'Associations that cooperates with the Italian Ministry for Education.\n\nThe association cooperates with High School Students'Unions from France (the UNL, the UNL-SD and the SGL), from Belgium (the CEF) from Ireland (ISSU) and from Denmark (EEO) that took part to the \"Revolution Camp\" the National camp of Rete degli Studenti Medi and UdU, in the editions 2016 and 2017 in Massa, Tuscany and Montalto di Castro, Lazio. The FMDL, National French Association of High School Students'centers, was at the Revolution Camp too, as the beginning of a cooperation about services and welfare in Italian and French High Schools. Rete degli Studenti Medi joined the National Assembly and the National Congress of the UNL respectively in November 2015 and April 2016, and took part to the General Assembly of the OBESSU in Amsterdam, the 11 and 12 August 2016, starting the cooperation with other European Students'associations. For the first time as a Candidate Association, RSM had official delegates at the OBESSU Council of Members of December 2016 in Dublin, Ireland, and at the OBESSU General Assembly 2017 in Berlin, Germany.\n\nRSM is an official Member of OBESSU since the International Students'Day 2017, day of the Council of Members of Prague in which RSM Membership was approved by the other member school student unions.\n\nRete degli Studenti Medi gave its solidarity to Danish student unions after a call of DGS (the General High School student union) against the university reform of 2017, and to Colombian students of ANDES part of the peace process at the end of the civil war between FARC and the Government of Colombia.\n\nIt organizes each year rallies and cultural events to celebrate 17 November, the International Student Day, joining international political platforms from the OBESSU and from ESU.\n\nThe association promotes in many Italian cities the \"Second Hand School Book Market\", an event that takes place in Schools and in Cultural Centers, to allow Italian Students to buy School Books spending less, because the price of School Books in Italy is considered too high and it has negative effects on the inclusion of many Students.\n\n21 May, the association joins the \"Day of Memory and Commitment to commemorate all victims of Mafias\", with national rallies, for example in Bologna (Emilia Romagna) in 2015, in Messina (Sicily) in 2016, and Locri (Calabria) in 2017 and demonstrations organised by Libera in different Italian cities. \n\nRete degli Studenti Medi, with Arci, Libera, CGIL and UdU organizes the \"Campi della Legalità\" summer camps in 9 different Italian Regions where volunteers can work on lands that were properties of mafious families, which now are controlled by the State and administrated by these Associations. Volunteers can visit places linked with the fight against the Mafia and they also learn about history of the anti-mafia movement with the help of people that are directly involved.\n\nAt a local and regional level, Rete degli Studenti Medi edits several School Students'Magazines, in particular \"Il Mancino\" is published in Veneto and Friuli Venezia Giulia, \"Panoptes\" in Umbria and \"Senza Filtro\" in Emilia Romagna.\n\nSome of RSM Provincial Confederations organize cultural activities cooperating with Arci, the biggest Italian cultural association, and there are also Circoli Arci (local Arci clubs) directly supported by RSM members, like in Treviso, and Caltanissetta. Similar activities are coorganized with UdU, CGIL and ANPI.\n\nAfter the Revolution Camp 2018 the National Board members are: Giammarco Manfreda (Coordinator, from Tuscany), Giulia Titoli (from Umbria), Elena Turchi (from Emilia Romagna), Rachele Scarpa (from Veneto), Francesco Boscheri (from Lazio) and Federico Allegretti (from Sicily). Rachele Scarpa is also the International Officer of the Organization, representing it officially in front of organizations from other countries and in the OBESSU.\n\nIt is a democratic Students'Union that fights for Students'rights and in favour of a Public High School for all Italian citizens. Rete degli Studenti Medi defends the values of the Italian Constitution, it is against each form of discrimination, racism, fascism and fanaticism. It's no linked with political parties, but could be considered a leftist progressive Students'union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7143337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7143337", "title": "Scottish Unionist Party (1986)", "text": "Scottish Unionist Party (1986)\n\nThe Scottish Unionist Party (SUP) is a minor political party in Scotland. It is ideologically a Unionist party, supporting the continuation of Scotland and Northern Ireland as a part of the United Kingdom. It is also anti-devolution, advocating the abolition of the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe SUP was formed in 1986 by a number of members disillusioned with Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government's signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement. In its early years, the party found a great deal of support amongst members of the Scottish Orange Order.\n\nMany traditional supporters of the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party and others felt that the signing of the treaty giving the Republic of Ireland a role in the government of Northern Ireland was a betrayal of the Unionists in that part of the United Kingdom and the associated Protestant community.\n\nThe SUP has contested a number of elections, including the Scottish Parliament elections in 1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011. In 2003, the SUP contested only the Glasgow, Central Scotland and West of Scotland Additional Members System electoral regions, yet failed to poll enough votes to elect an MSP. It also contested only six local council wards in 2003, all located in the west central belt where the traditional \"Orange vote\" resides. In one Glasgow city centre seat (Kingston), they achieved third place.\n\nThe SUP also stood for two seats at the 2001 General Election, in Glasgow Springburn and Airdrie and Shotts. The party managed to retain its deposit in the former, and almost did so in the latter. This was not so surprising in Springburn, for there was no Conservative and Unionist candidate since it was the constituency in which the Speaker was seeking re-election, but in Airdrie and Shotts, despite the presence of a Conservative and Unionist candidate, the SUP still managed to poll 4.5% of the vote. At the 2005 General Election the party fielded one candidate in Glasgow North East again against the Speaker, managing to achieve 4.5% of the vote, almost retaining its deposit.\n\nThe party failed to win any seats in the 2007 Scottish Parliamentary Elections and the Scottish local elections held at the same time. According to the 2007 statement of accounts with the Electoral Commission the party has 128 members, which is up by 10 on the previous year though income from memberships fell from GBP 572 to GBP 365. It was deregistered by the Electoral Commission on 6 November 2009.\n\nHowever, the party appeared to have revived in 2012, when it ran a slate of candidates in the Glasgow Council elections, receiving 586 votes.It also fielded 2 candidates in the South Lanarkshire Council elections where their candidates received an average of 3.2% of the vote in the 2 wards it stood in.\n\nThe SUP campaigns against what it sees as Anti-Protestant and Anti-Unionist government policies. The party is often strongly critical of mainstream parties that they view as failing to safeguard the Act of Union 1707, including the major pro-Union parties in Scotland. A number of its major policies are to:\n\nThe Scottish Unionist Youth (SUY) is the youth wing of the (SUP), formed in February 2007 at a meeting of the SUP, after discussions on the matter of forming a wing within the party specifically for young Scottish Unionists between the ages of 16 and 25. The SUY is involved with all aspects of political activism on behalf of the SUP. It is not known how many members the SUY has.\n\n"}
{"id": "8070831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8070831", "title": "Security company", "text": "Security company\n\nA private security company is a business corporation, which provides armed and unarmed security services and expertise to private and public clients. Private security companies are defined by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as companies primarily engaged in providing guard and patrol services, such as bodyguard, guard dog, parking security and security guard services. Many of them will even provide advanced special operations services if the client demands it. Examples of services provided by these companies include the prevention of unauthorized activity or entry, traffic regulation, access control, and fire and theft prevention and detection. These services can be broadly described as the protection of personnel and/or assets. Other security services such as roving patrol, bodyguard, and guard dog services are also included, but are a very small portion of the industry. The private security industry is rapidly growing, currently there are 2 million full-time security workers in the United States and this number is expected to increase by 21% percent through 2020. Making the security industry a $100 billion a year industry, with projected growth to $200 billion by 2010.\n\nThe United States is the world's largest consumer of private military and security service and the private security industry in the US began seeing a huge increase in popularity in 2010. Since then, the U.S. security industry has already grown to be a 350 billion dollar market.\n\nEmployees of private security companies are generally referred to either as \"security guards\" or \"security officers\", depending on the laws of the state or country they operate in. Security companies themselves are sometimes referred to as \"security contractors\", but this is not common due to confusion with private military contractors, who operate under a different auspice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44087291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44087291", "title": "Sentry Eagle", "text": "Sentry Eagle\n\nSentry Eagle, the National Initiative Protection Program, is a compartmented program of the National Security Agency's (NSA) Central Security Service (CSS) and the US Strategic Command Joint Functional Component Command - Network Warfare (JFCC-NW). Its existence was revealed during the 2013 global surveillance disclosure by Edward Snowden.\n\nThe program's efforts to protect America's cyberspace includes efforts to plan, synchronize, and attack an adversary's cyberspace through Computer Network Attack (CNA). The combination of those efforts are referred to as NSA/CSS's and JFCC-NW's core Computer Network Operations (CNO).\n\nThe CNO capabilities include SIGINT, Computer Network Exploitation (CNE), Information Assurance, Computer Network Defense (CND), Network Warfare, and Computer Network Attack (CNA).\n\nSentry Eagle includes six sub-programs:\n\nThe Sentry Hawk program is a computer network exploitation program involving the CIA and FBI. The program attempts to exploit computers, computer peripherals, computer-controlled devices, computer networks or facilities housing them, and publicly accessible computing and networking infrastructure. Targets include specific firewalls, operating systems, and software applications. The program operates with the benefit of partnerships with US commercial sector companies.\n\nThe Sentry Falcon program is a computer network defense program focused on attack attribution.\n\nThe Sentry Osprey program is a collaborative program with the CIA and the National Clandestine Service (NCS), FBI, and the Defense Clandestine Service of the Defense Intelligence Agency to perform Target Exploitation (TAREX) of foreign communication infrastructure.\n\nThe Sentry Raven program involves secret efforts to weaken commercial encryption systems and software in order to make them exploitable for SIGINT. The cryptosystems targeted include systems used by the US private sector and developed by US companies.\n\nSentry Raven involves the use of super computers and special purpose cryptanalytic hardware and software to break foreign ciphers. It also involves the spending of hundreds of millions of dollars on special purpose computer systems to attack US commercial encryption systems, including the exploitation of weaknesses places in them by cooperating companies or undercover agents within US companies.\n\nThe Sentry Condor program involves the provision of cyber target identification and recognition material and tools and techniques that allow computer network attack on those targets.\n\nThe Sentry Owl program involves the use of US industry personnel, or undercover NSA personnel at US and foreign employers, to enable SIGINT operations on US and foreign commercial communications products. The program includes contracts with US and foreign commercial entities to subvert the privacy features of their products for both foreign and domestic consumers (for both content and metadata).\n\n"}
{"id": "31710046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31710046", "title": "Society Guard", "text": "Society Guard\n\nThe Society Guard (), sometimes Norwegian Society Guard (\"Norsk Samfundsvern\"), was a volunteer paramilitary organisation in Norway. It was founded in 1923 in connection to the anti-strike Society Aid (\"Samfundshjelpen\"). Organised by the centre-right parties, these \"emergency groups\" were prepared to mobilise in case of war or revolution. The organisation was directed specifically against the Marxist labour movement, and recruited officers and volunteers for an armed guard against revolutionary activists. Led by officers, it was organised in small secret armed groups. In accordance with the \"police law\" of 1928, it could be used as a reserve police force. Around 1930, it reportedly had between 10,000 and 15,000 members.\n\nFrom 1925, the organisation was led by Ragnvald Hvoslef. Other leading figures included Hjalmar Riiser-Larsen. The organisation Leidangen which emerged in 1931 had its background in the Society Guard. To counter such organisations, the Labour Party started organising \"Labour Protection Groups\" in the 1930s. The Society Guard was dissolved in 1935 following the establishment of the Labour Party Nygaardsvold's Cabinet, after it was revealed that it operated military training with material from the Norwegian Army. According to Hans Fredrik Dahl, the Society Guard was the closest Norway came to a White Guard.\n"}
{"id": "54039509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54039509", "title": "Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College", "text": "Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College\n\nThe Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College (SOMAFCO), was an educational institution established by the exiled African National Congress (ANC) in 1978 at Mazimbu, Tanzania. Its purpose was to give the youth that had fled South Africa after the 1976 Soweto uprising and children of existing exiles a primary and secondary education, an alternative to traditional Bantu education system they would have received at home. It would teach both an academic and vocational education. Farmlands would supply food to the institution and would also include a hospital. It was officially opened by Oliver Tambo in 1985.\n\nThe ANC's would establish its educational centre in Morogoro, Tanzania on land donated by the Tanzanian government during 1977, facilitated by Tanzanian Anna Abdallah. The land at Mazimba, consisted of some farm buildings on 600 acres. The school would be named after the Solomon Mahlangu, a member of the ANC's military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) and an exile of the 1976 Soweto uprising. Other names that had been suggested for the school before settled on the existing name where the Albert Luthuli Institute and the ANC Freedom School.\n\nThe complex was built by Oswald Dennis, an ANC civil engineer trained in East Germany. He would later be supported by architect Spenser Hodgson. Work started in July 1977, built by Tanzanian labourers and supervised by the ANC, while education began under trees or in the existing farm buildings. Eventually around eighty percent of the workforce would be made of Tanzanians. As this would be a boarding school, accommodation was required and so six units catering for 144 pupils were built, with eight students per room. The first dormitory was completed for occupation in late 1979 by pupils and teachers. By 1980, the land had been cleared, existing houses on the land renovated, a temporary water supply and sewage system in place and the buildings linked to the local electricity network. Future plans called for more dormitories, houses, kitchen and dining rooms as well as a library.\n\nInitially the plan for the facility was for a secondary school for exiles of the 1976 Soweto uprising and children of the pre-1976, but soon a pre-primary school was established and by 1984 it would be formally called the Charlotte Maxeke Children's Centre. The centre started in the late 70's as a crèche, first in the town itself before being moved back into a renovated house at SOMAFCO in 1981 as a crèche and nursery school. The centre would open in 1984, built by Oswald Dennis from money supplied by the Swedish Teachers' Union.\n\nBy 1985 a primary school was formally established. In 1980, New Zealanders Terry and Barbara Bell arrived in Tanzania to establish the primary school which operated out of one of the renovated houses though overcrowding meant some had to attend primary school in town. All teaching occurred in English. The Bell's left in 1982 after clashing over the style of the school management. Dennis and Hazel September took over the management of the primary school and the style of teaching changed to a more conventional one of grade and performance measures.\n\nFood for the facility was supplied from the farms' land which would supply milk, eggs, pork, beef and maize. Hans Jurgen's expertise as an agricultural consultant would provided by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency. He would set about constructing a farm plan to make the facility self-sufficient by 1984 for 2,500 residents. Teachers and students were expected spend a time each week working on the farms. Security for the complex was provided by the Tanzania People's Defence Force.\nMedical issues were initially conducted by a clinic at the institution but when politics and personal issues took hold there in the early eighties and with the increase in the need to supply more sophisticated medical treatments, the ANC decided that a hospital should be built. Later called the ANC-Holland Solidarity Hospital, it was opened on 1 May 1984. A solidarity group in the Netherlands under Henk Odenk would finance it and the ANC was responsible for its construction.\n\nThe furniture factory was financed out of Finland and would open in 1980 and was called the Vuyisile Mini Furniture Factory, named after Vuyisile Mini an executed MK soldier. In addition to repairing broken furniture it would supply the building projects with doors, window frames and furniture.\n\nTeachers where recruited from three main sources. Firstly from ANC members with professional qualifications, secondly from matriculated members of the organisation and lastly overseas volunteer teachers who supported the aims of the ANC. The ANC wished to emphasise the teaching of what it called the hard sciences, subjects such as science and biology, subjects that were not regularly taught to black pupils in South Africa under the governments Bantu Education policy and which there was a shortage of amongst its own teachers. The source of teachers would initially come from Europe such as the United Kingdom, Nordic countries, the Netherlands and GDR and then later from Nigeria, Zambia and Tanzania.\n\nThe students were educated only in English, with both a traditional non-Bantu education and political education. Subjects by the late 80's included English, Maths, History, Geography, Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Agricultural Science, Typing, Integrated Science, Technical drawing, Development of Societies, Literature and History of the Struggle. The latter three were examined internally with the other subjects examined externally in the UK as GCE O level examinations. The secondary school consisted of six forms or grades and classes took place from Monday to Friday with a uniform worn though not strictly enforced. Corporal punishment though not officially allowed did occur from time to time and depended on the teacher concerned.\n\nTertiary education was not conducted by the college but through means of scholarships, worthy candidates received further education in British, European and American universities while Communist countries also assisted but mainly in the spheres of agriculture, paramedical workers and engineers as well as other technical skills.\n\n\n\nVice-Principal - Slim Zindela\n\n·Aubrey Matlole - teacher\n·Zandisile Pase - teacher\n·Mzwandile Kibi - teacher\n\nThe Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College would receive its funds from foreign donors. Most of the ANCs Scandinavian countries donations went into education with Norway and Sweden contributing $12 million in 1985 and $25 million by 1988. The latter's aid was provided by the Swedish International Developmental Cooperation Agency. Other donations for the work came from the German Democratic Republic, Soviet Union, United Nations Development Programme, World Health Organization (WHO) solidarity organisations and individuals.\n\nOn its closure on 9 September 1992, the educational complex consisted of a pre-primary, primary and secondary school, the farm, furniture factory and other support units. The infrastructure that remained behind was integrated into the Sokoine University of Agriculture. In 1991, the National Co-ordinating Committee on for the Return of Exiles set up the Batlagae Trust, who through the means of bursaries, would integrate the school's pupils back into the South African education system on their return to the country.\n\nThe school's archives now rest at the University of Fort Hare. The documents began to arrive in September 1992 and stored in Centre for Cultural Studies before being moved to the Howard Pim Library in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "43069461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43069461", "title": "Soviet-type economic planning", "text": "Soviet-type economic planning\n\nSoviet-type economic planning (STP) is the specific model of centralized economic planning employed by Marxist-Leninist socialist states modeled on the economy of the Soviet Union. Although there was significant variation among these economies, Soviet-type planning and Soviet-type economies refers to the major structural characteristics common to these economies.\n\nSoviet-type planning is a form of economic planning involving centralized investment decisions, administrative allocation of economic inputs, material balances to reach equilibrium between available inputs and targeted outputs, and to some extent the use of linear optimization to optimize the plans.\n\nThe major institutions of Soviet-type planning in the Soviet Union included a planning agency (Gosplan), an organization for allocating state supplies among the various organizations and enterprises in the economy (Gossnab), and enterprises which were engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services in the economy. Enterprises comprised production associations and institutes that were linked together by the plans formulated by Gosplan.\n\nMaterial balance planning was the major function of Gosplan in the Soviet Union. This method of planning involved the accounting of material supplies in natural units (as opposed to monetary terms), which are used to balance the supply of available inputs with targeted outputs. Material balancing involves taking a survey of available inputs and raw materials in the economy and then using a balance-sheet to balance them with output targets specified by industry to achieve a balance between supply and demand. This balance is used to formulate a plan for the national economy.\n\nThere are two fundamental ways scholars have carried out an analysis of Soviet-type economic planning. The first involves adapting standard neoclassical economic models and theories to analyze the Soviet economic system. This paradigm stresses the importance of Pareto efficiency standard. In contrast to this approach, scholars like Pawel Dembinski argue that neo-classical tools are somewhat inappropriate for evaluating Soviet-type planning because they attempt to quantify and measure phenomena specific to capitalist-based economies. They contend that, because standard economic models rely on assumptions not fulfilled in the Soviet system (especially the assumption of economic rationality underlying decision-making), the results obtained from a neo-classical analysis will distort the actual effects of STP. These other scholars proceed along a different course, trying to engage with STP on its own terms, investigating the philosophical, historical, and political influences that gave rise to STP, and evaluating its economic successes and failures (theoretical and actual) with reference to those contexts.\n\nThe USSR practiced some form of central planning beginning in 1918 with War Communism until it dissolved in 1991, although the type and extent of planning was of a different nature before imperative centralized planning was introduced in the 1930s. While there were many subtleties to the various forms of economic organization the USSR employed during this 70-year time period, enough features were shared that scholars have broadly examined advantages and disadvantages of Soviet-type economic planning. Soviet is not the same as economic planning in general – there are other theoretical models of economic planning, and modern mixed economies also practice economic planning to a certain extent, but they are not subject to all of the advantages and disadvantages enumerated here.\n\nFrom a neoclassical perspective, the advantages of STP are quite limited. One advantage of STP is the theoretical possibility to avoid inflation. Complete price stability is achievable, not only because the state plans all prices and quantities, but also because the state has complete control over money supply via the wages it pays as the sole employer. Therefore, to maintain a fixed currency value, all the state must do is balance the total value of goods available during a given planning period with the amount of wages it pays according to the following equation, where formula_1 represents the general retail price level, formula_2 accounts for the quantity of consumer goods and services, formula_3 is total household income (wages paid), formula_4 is transfer payments, formula_5 is household saving, and formula_6 is direct household taxes:\nformula_7\n\nHowever, the USSR arguably never realized this theoretical possibility. It suffered from both open and repressed inflation throughout much of its history because of failure to balance the above equation.\n\nAnother advantage of economic planning from the neoclassical perspective is the ability to eliminate unemployment (with the exception of frictional unemployment) and business cycles. Since the state is effectively the sole business proprietor and controls banking, it theoretically avoids classic financial frictions and consumer confidence challenges. Also, because the state makes labor compulsory and can run enterprises at a loss, full employment is a theoretical possibility even when capital stocks are too low to justify it in a market system. This was an advantage that the USSR arguably realized by 1930, although critics argue that sometimes certain segments of Soviet labor exhibited zero productivity, meaning that though workers were on employment rolls, they essentially sat idle because of capital deficiencies; \"i.e.\", there was employed unemployment.\n\nThose scholars who reject the neoclassical viewpoint consider the benefits of STP that the USSR itself adduced. One is the ability to control for externalities directly in the pricing mechanism. Another is the total capture of value obtained in STP which is neglected in market economies. By this it is meant that while a worker might put in a certain amount of work to produce a good, a market might value that good at less than the cost of labor the worker put in, effectively negating the value of the work done. But, because in STP prices are set by the state, STP avoids this pitfall by never pricing an item below its labor value. While these do seem to be valid theoretical advantages to STP (especially under a Marxist framework), it has been argued by some that STP as implemented by the USSR failed to achieve these theoretical possibilities.\n\nCentrally-planned economies also provide a better quality of life than market economies at the same level of economic development in nearly all cases\n\nFrom a neoclassical perspective, there were many disadvantages to STP. They can be divided into two categories: macroeconomic and microeconomic.\n\nMacroeconomic disadvantages included systemic undersupply, the pursuit of full employment at a steep cost, price fixing’s devastating effect on agricultural incentives, and the loss of the advantages of money because STP eschews money’s classic role. Systemic undersupply was caused in STP because of the use of \"material balances\" (plans for the balanced production and consumption of goods and productive inputs), which are theoretically possible, but practically impossible to produce because planners cannot acquire enough information to craft them accurately. Additionally, planners had to aggregate many types of goods and inputs into a single material balance because it was impossible to create an individual balance for each of the approximately 24 million items produced and consumed in the USSR. This system introduced a strong bias towards underproduction, resulting in a scarcity of consumer goods. Another disadvantage is that while STP does allow for the theoretically possibility of full employment, the USSR often achieved full employment by operating enterprises at a loss or leaving workers idle. Therefore, there was always a Pareto superior alternative available to the USSR rather than full employment, specifically, the option to close some enterprises and make transfer payments to the unemployed.\n\nThe microeconomic disadvantages from a neoclassical perspective include: \n\nScholars who reject the neoclassical approach produce a shorter list of disadvantages, but because these disadvantages are valid even from the Soviet perspective, they are perhaps even more damning of STP than those listed above. These scholars consider STP’s inability to predict things like weather, trade, and technological advancement as an insurmountable drawback to the planning procedure. Without exhaustive knowledge of those things, planning would (and did) systemically misappropriate resources. Also, STP’s use of coercive techniques (e.g. ratchet effect, labor camps, etc.), which are argued to be inherent to STP, on the one hand ensured the system's survival and on the other hand resulted in the distorted information that made effective planning challenging if not impossible. And lastly these scholars argue that the semantic limitations of language made it impossible for STP planners to communicate their desires to enterprises in sufficient detail for planning to fully direct economic outcomes. Enterprises themselves under STP still made a variety of economic decisions autonomously. \n\nOther scholars have argued following the collapse of the USSR argued that a central deficiency of Soviet economic planning was that it was not premised on final consumer demand, and that such a system would be increasingly feasible with advances in information technology. \n\nDespite these shortcomings, the USSR's growth in GDP per capita compared favorably with Western Europe. In 1913, prior to the revolution, the former USSR had a GDP per capita of $1,488 in 1990 international dollars, which grew 461% to $6,871 by 1990. Moreover, following the fall of the USSR, this figure fell to $3,893 by 1998. Western Europe, by comparison grew from a higher base of $3,688 international dollars by a comparable 457% to $16,872 in the same period. It reached $17,921 by 1998. \n\n"}
{"id": "14743863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743863", "title": "Stadium subsidy", "text": "Stadium subsidy\n\nA stadium subsidy is a type of government subsidy given to professional sports franchises to help finance the construction or renovation of a sports venue. Stadium subsidies can come in the form of tax-free municipal bonds, cash payments, long-term tax exemptions, infrastructure improvements, and operating cost subsidies. Funding for stadium subsidies can come from all levels of government and remains controversial among legislators and citizens. There is an ongoing debate among economists and municipalities about the aggregate effects of hosting a professional athletic team. \n\nEighty years ago, stadium subsidies were essentially unheard of, with funding for professional sports stadiums coming from private sources. In 1951, MLB commissioner Ford Frick decided that league teams were bringing large amounts of revenue to their host cities from which owners weren't able to profit. He announced that cities would need to start supporting their teams by building and maintaining venues through public subsidy. Today, most new or renovated professional sports stadiums are financed at least partly through stadium subsidies. While Frick may have been a catalyst, this change has been primarily caused by the increase in bargaining power of professional sports teams at the expense of their host cities. As the years have passed, municipalities have come to love their local professional sports teams. \n\nRecently there have been many studies that have suggested that there are a number of direct and indirect economic benefits associated with hosting a professional sports team, although each city experiences this to a different degree. Even still, a survey conducted in 2017 found that \"83% of economists polled believed that a subsidy's cost to the public outweighed the economic benefits\". The economics behind issuing billions of dollars to professional athletic organizations are still unclear, but cities have clearly showed that they are willing to assume the best, as recent years have seen an increase in the number of subsidies issues and the amount of money issued per subsidy.\n\nTwenty-seven of the 30 stadiums built between 1953 and 1970 received more than $450 million in total public funding for construction. During this period, publicly funding a stadium grew in popularity as an effective incentive to attract professional sports teams to up and coming cities. Famous examples include the Brooklyn Dodgers leaving New York in exchange for 300 acres in Chavez Ravine and the New York Giants moving to San Francisco for what would eventually become Candlestick Park. The Los Angeles Coliseum became the first fully publicly funded stadium in 2018.\n\nOver time, a market for subsidies has come into existence. Sports teams have realized their ability to relocate at lower and lower costs to their private contributors. Because local governments feel that keeping their sports teams around is critical to the success of their cities, they comply and grant teams subsidies. This creates a market for subsidies, where professional athletic organizations can shop between cities to see which municipality will provide them with the most resources. Teams in the NFL have a major incentive to keep their stadium up to date, as the NFL allows teams to bid to host the Super Bowl and takes recent and planned renovations into account. Many NFL teams in recent years have asked for subsidies for the construction of entirely new stadiums, like the Atlanta Falcons, who were subsequently awarded the contract for Super Bowl LIII.\n\nPublic subsidies for major league sports stadiums and arenas are far less common in Europe than in the United States. The relationship between the local clubs and the cities that host them is typically much stronger than in the United States, with the team being more intrinsic to the cities' identity. Cities would be significantly more upset at the departure of their beloved local teams, and viable alternative cities already have their own clubs to whom their residents are loyal. As a result, the leagues in Europe have significantly less bargaining power. They will not threaten to relocate to another city if not provided with a subsidy, or at the very least the threat would not be credible. It is also worth noting that the NFL, the league in the United States whose stadiums have the highest percentage of public financing of the four major leagues, does not have an equivalent in Europe; American football is relatively unpopular.\n\nThere are two primary ways that a city facilitates the construction of a stadium. The first, and most commonly used method, is a direct subsidy. This involves a city promising a certain amount of revenue to go towards the construction, maintenance, and renovation of a stadium. Other times, the city will give tax breaks to teams or stadium owners in lieu of a direct cash transfer. Over a period of time, a reduction in the taxes paid against the stadium generally saves the organization building the stadium around the same amount as a subsidy would be worth. \n\nIn the USA, the annual subsidies provided by the state for the construction of stadiums are in the range of billions of dollars. A 2005 study of all sports stadiums and facilities in use by the four major leagues from 1990 to 2001 calculated a total public subsidy of approximately $17 billion, or approx. $24 billion in 2018 dollars. The average annual subsidy during that period was $1.6 billion ($2.2 billion in 2018) for all 99 facilities included in the study, with an average of $16.2 million ($22.8 million in 2018) per facility annually. A 2012 Bloomberg analysis estimates that tax exemptions annually cost the U.S. Treasury $146 million. \n\nSources: \n\nIn granting stadium subsidies, governments claim that the new or improved stadiums will have positive enternalities for the city. Proponents tout improvements to the local economy as the primary benefits. Economists who debate the issue have separated the effects on a local economy into direct and indirect effects. Direct benefits are those that exist as a result of the \"rent, concessions, parking, advertising, suite rental, and other preferred seating rental\", and direct expenses come from \"wages and related expenses, utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance,\" and the costs of building the facilities. Generally, these benefits vary widely. The Balitmore Orioles, for example, estimate that each game they host brings $3 million in economic benefits to the city. Over the course of an entire baseball season, the Orioles will have 81 home games, which means that benefit gets multiplied to be around $243 million a season. For NFL teams the case is much different, as there are only 8 home games a season. Over the lifetime of a stadium, which is often between 20-30 years, this benefit accumulates even more. Essentially, this is the basis on which municipalities evaluate the benefit of a team. Supporters further argue that the stadiums attract tourism and businesses that lead to further spending and job creation, representing indirect benefits. All of the increased spending causes a multiplier effect that leads to more spending and job creation and eventually finances the subsidy through increased tax revenues from ticket and concessions sales, improved property values and more spending nearby the stadium. In some cases, there has even been an observed reduction in crime during a game, although the aggregate effect of professional sports on crime is disputable. Additionally, there has recently been research that suggests that home games generate what is called a \"sunny day benefit\". There is a measurable drop in local spending that occurs within a city on a rainy day, but with a professional sports team playing a game, spending increases significantly. Jordan Rappaport, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas, estimates that this benefit is between $14 to $24 million dollars a year, which can be compounded over the life of a stadium.\n\nAdvocates for stadium subsidies also claim less quantifiable positive externalities, such as civic pride and fan identification, so that hosting a major sports team becomes something of a public good. Local sports fans enjoy the benefit even if they do not pay for it.\nWhen a city conducts a calculation to assess what they are willing to pay for a subsidy, they use an economic model that attempts to quantify the various social benefits for each dollar invested. This is done through a social marginal benefit evaluation, which takes the sums of all of the private benefits that result from investing, intended or not. Economists consider all the economic effects of having a professional athletic team in a city, like the \"sunny day\" benefit, job creation, civic pride, increased tourism, decreases/increases in crime rates, etc. The social marginal cost is equal to the sum of the private marginal benefits. The marginal cost is known only by the government, who deliberates with franchises to decide how much bringing a team to their city will cost. The image to the right is a good visual representation of this analysis. In this diagram, the city would like to acquire four teams, since at that point the social marginal benefit of recruiting a team still exceeds the marginal cost.\n\nMany criticisms exist regarding the use of stadium subsidies. First, critics argue that new stadiums generate little to no new spending (consumption). Instead, what fans spend in and around the stadium are substitutes for what they would otherwise spend on different entertainment options. Thus, this argument contends, new stadiums do not cause economic growth or lead to increased aggregate income. In fact, this suggests that money being substituted towards concessions, tickets, and merchandise actively harms the economy surrounding a stadium. \n\nAnother criticism of stadium subsidies is that much of the money the new stadiums bring in does not stay in the local economy. Instead of going to stadium employees and other sources that would benefit the local community, a lot of the money goes toward paying the organizations. Those payments come from either the state or city government, where spending normally goes towards social welfare programs or salaries for government employees. It has been argued that the opportunity cost of a subsidy for a sports team is far greater than the benefit, since the billions of dollars that are spent on a stadium could be better spent on schools, firehouses, public transportation, or police departments. \n\nCritics also argue that the construction of new stadiums could cause citizens and businesses to leave a city because of eminent domain issues. If a city is forced to take land from its citizens to build a new stadium, those who have lost land could become angry enough to leave the city. If they are business owners, then they will likely take their businesses with them. These trade-offs are a part of the marginal cost calculation the city does. Much like the social marginal benefit calculation the city performed to find what benefits teams brought to the city, the social marginal cost calculation sums up all of the unintended negative effects from a particular spending plan.\n\nA review of the empirical literature assessing the effects of subsidies for professional sports franchises and facilities reveals that most evidence goes against sports subsidies. Specifically, subsidies cannot be justified on the grounds of local economic development, income growth or job creation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2406531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2406531", "title": "Tabarca", "text": "Tabarca\n\nTabarca (, ) also known in Valencian as \"Nova Tabarca\" and \"Illa Plana\", and in Spanish as \"Nueva Tabarca\" and \"Isla Plana\", is an islet located in the Mediterranean Sea, close to the town of Santa Pola, in the province of Alicante, Valencian community, Spain. Tabarca is the smallest permanently inhabited islet in Spain and it is currently known for its marine reserve.\n\nDespite being much more socially and economically related to the fishing port of Santa Pola, the tiny island of Tabarca is a part of the city of Alicante. Administratively, it is managed as a rural district of Alicante, jointly with el Palmeral, Aiguamarga and Urbanova.\n\nThe local census (2011) counted 68 inhabitants and its postal code is 03138.\n\nThe islet is long, with a maximum breadth of and absolutely flat. Almost next to the main islet lie the islets of \"la Nau\", \"la Galera\" and \"la Cantera\". It lies approximately south-southeast from Alicante and east-southeast from Santa Pola.\n\nTourism is the main economical activity, especially during the summer. There are several boats connecting Tabarca with Alicante, Santa Pola and Torrevieja, with higher frequencies during summer time.\n\nBefore 1700, the island was known as \"Illa de Sant Pau\" ('Saint Paul's Island') or \"Illa Plana\" ('Flat Island'). Believed to be the island that St. Paul disembarked on, the island was a refuge for Barbary pirates up to the end of the 18th century.\n\nIts Tunisian fellow islet off the town of Tabarka was a part of the Republic of Genoa till 1741 when it was conquered by the Bey of Tunis. In 1760, Charles III of Spain ordered the fortification and repopulation of the Spanish island. A group of Genoese sailors shipwrecked near the coast of Tunisia, mostly coming from the islet off Tunisian Tabarka, were rescued and settled here. The islet was renamed Nova Tabarca (\"New Tabarca\" in both Valencian and Latin). Thus a settlement was created by royal edict on this uninhabited island which the North African corsaries had previously used as a platform for raids on the Levantine coast.\n\nOn their arrival, the Genoese were first moved to Alicante, where they lived temporarily in the Jesuit School, empty after the expulsion of the Jesuits from Spain. Finally, the Genoese were moved to the island together with a Spanish garrison. The military engineer Fernando Méndez Ras planned a fortified town and walls, bulwarks, warehouses and barracks were built. From 1770, the island was known as Nueva Tabarca ('New Tabarca').\n\nAlthough the Genoese assimilated, abandoning their language in favour first of Valencian and, later on, of Spanish (both languages are currently spoken on the islet), the Genoese descent of the settlers can still be noticed today in the surnames of Italian origin common on the islet.\n\nThe island is twinned with Carloforte, in the Sardinian San Pietro Island, which was also populated with Genoese from Tunisian Tabarka.\n\nThe gateways are still visible and so are the Governor's House (currently a hotel) and the church of St Peter and St Paul, concluded in 1779.\n\nIn 1850 the governor and the garrison were removed. At the end of the 19th century, the island had a population of around 1,000 people mainly devoted to fishing. Nowadays, the permanent population is around 50, making Tabarca the smallest permanently inhabited Spanish island, although this number is multiplied by ten during the tourist season in summer.\n\nThe main activity of the local population is fishing, with the catch brought to Santa Pola's fish market, but tourism becomes the most important resource during summer, specially in July and August.\n\nTabarca is a protected marine reserve called \"Reserva marina de la Isla de Tabarca\", declared a Zone of Special Protection for Birds by the EU, with a varied marine fauna (sea bass, grouper, conger eel, gilthead etc.). It is surrounded by very clear and unpolluted waters. The island is formed by materials of volcanic origin on top of which limestone and quaternary deposits have settled.\n\nTabarca was the last Spanish Mediterranean location where the critically endangered Mediterranean monk seal successfully bred before it became extinct in this part of its range in the 1960s. This proves the high quality of the waters around the island in terms of marine ecology. Therefore, waters around Tabarca were declared a Marine reserve in 1986, the first of its kind in Spain. This status was mainly granted due to its submarine posidonia prairie, which is the largest in the Spanish Mediterranean and has an extraordinary ecological value in terms of marine fauna and flora.\n\nIn order to both enhance the marine biodiversity and protect it from fishing, an artificial reef was laid near the island by the Marine Reserve authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30332", "title": "Tactical voting", "text": "Tactical voting\n\nIn voting methods, tactical voting (or strategic voting or sophisticated voting or insincere voting) occurs, in elections with more than two candidates, when a voter supports another candidate more strongly than their \"sincere preference\" in order to prevent an undesirable outcome.\n\nFor example, in a simple plurality election, a voter might sometimes gain a \"better\" outcome by voting for a less preferred but more generally popular candidate.\n\nIt has been shown by the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem that any single-winner ranked voting method which is not dictatorial must be susceptible to tactical voting. However, the type of tactical voting and the extent to which it affects campaigns and election results can vary dramatically from one voting method to another.\n\nCompromising (sometimes \"useful vote\") is a type of tactical voting in which a voter insincerely ranks an alternative higher in the hope of getting it elected. For example, in the first-past-the-post election, voters may vote for an option they perceive as having a greater chance of winning over an option they prefer (e.g., a conservative voter voting for an uncontroversial moderate candidate over a controversial right-wing candidate in order to help defeat a popular leftist candidate). Duverger's law argues that, for this reason, first-past-the-post election methods will lead to two-party systems in most cases. In those proportional representation methods that include a minimum percentage of votes that a party must achieve to receive any seats, people might vote tactically for a minor party to prevent it from dropping below that percentage (which would make the votes it does receive useless for the larger political camp that party belongs to), or alternatively those who support the viewpoints of a minor party may vote for the larger party whose views are closest to those of the minor party.\n\nBurying is a type of tactical voting in which a voter insincerely ranks an alternative lower in the hopes of defeating it. For example, in the Borda count or in a Condorcet method, a voter may insincerely rank a perceived strong alternative last in order to help their preferred alternative beat it.\n\nPush-over (also called mischief voting) is a type of tactical voting in which a voter ranks a perceived weak alternative higher, but not in the hopes of getting it elected. This primarily occurs in runoff voting when a voter already believes that their favored candidate will make it to the next round – the voter then ranks an unpreferred, but easily beatable, candidate higher so that their preferred candidate can win later. In the United States, for instance, voters of one party sometimes vote in the other party's primary to nominate a candidate who will be easy for their favorite to beat, especially after that favorite has secured their party's own nomination.\n\nBullet voting is when a voter votes for just one candidate, despite having the option to vote for more than one due to a voting method such as approval voting, plurality-at-large voting, and Condorcet methods. A voter helps their preferred candidate by not supplying votes to potential rivals. Since a voter helps their preferred candidate and does not support another candidate more strongly than their sincere preference, bullet voting is not a type of tactical voting. Bullet voting is a type of sincere voting. This strategy is encouraged and seen as sometimes beneficial in the methods of limited voting and cumulative voting.\n\nOne high-profile example of tactical voting was the California gubernatorial election, 2002. During the Republican primaries, Republicans Richard Riordan (former mayor of Los Angeles) and Bill Simon (a self-financed businessman) were vying for a chance to compete against the unpopular incumbent Democratic Governor of California, Gray Davis. Polls predicted that Riordan would defeat Davis, while Simon would not. At that time, the Republican primaries were open primaries in which anyone could vote regardless of their own party affiliation. Davis supporters were rumored to have voted for Simon because Riordan was perceived as a greater threat to Davis; this combined with a negative advertising campaign by Davis describing Riordan as a \"big-city liberal\", and Simon ultimately won the primary despite a last-minute business scandal. However, he lost the election against Davis.\n\nIn the 1997 UK general election, Democratic Left helped Bruce Kent set up GROT (Get Rid Of Them) a tactical voter campaign whose sole aim was to help prevent the Conservative Party from gaining a 5th term in office. This coalition was drawn from individuals in all the main opposition parties and many who were not aligned with any party. While it would be hard to prove that GROT swung the election itself, it did attract significant media attention and brought tactical voting into the mainstream for the first time in UK politics. In 2001, the Democratic Left's successor organisation the New Politics Network organised a similar campaign. Since then tactical voting has become a real consideration in British politics as is reflected in by-elections and by the growth in sites such as tactical2017.com who encourage tactical voting as a way of defusing the two party system and empowering the individual voter. For the 2015 UK general election, http://voteswap.org was set up to help prevent the Conservative Party staying in government, by encouraging Green Party supporters to tactically vote for the Labour Party in listed marginal seats. In 2017 swapmyvote.uk was formed to help supporters of all parties swap their votes with people in other constituencies.\n\nIn the 2006 local elections in London, tactical voting is being promoted by sites such as London Strategic Voter in a response to national and international issues. The question of whether this approach acts to undermine local democracy is receiving much debate.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, it is widely believed that (predominantly Protestant) Unionist voters in Nationalist strongholds have voted for the Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) to prevent Sinn Féin from capturing such seats. This conclusion was reached by comparing results to the demographics of constituencies and polling districts.\n\nIn the 2017 general election it is estimated that 6.5 million people (more than 20% of voters) voted tactically either as a way of preventing a \"hard Brexit\" or preventing another Conservative government led by the Tactical2017 campaign. Many Green Party candidates withdrew from the race in order to help the Labour Party secure closely fought seats against the Conservatives. This ultimately lead to the Conservatives losing seats in the election even though they increased their overall vote share.\n\nIn the 1999 Ontario provincial election, strategic voting was widely encouraged by opponents of the Progressive Conservative government of Mike Harris. This failed to unseat Harris, and succeeded only in suppressing the Ontario New Democratic Party vote to a historic low.\n\nIn the 2004 federal election and to a lesser extent in the 2006 election, strategic voting was a concern for the federal New Democratic Party (NDP). In the 2004 election, the governing Liberal Party was able to convince many New Democratic voters to vote Liberal in order to avoid a Conservative government. In the 2006 elections, the Liberal Party attempted the same strategy, with Prime Minister Paul Martin asking New Democrats and Greens to vote for the Liberal Party in order to prevent a Conservative win. The New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton would respond by asking voters to \"lend\" their votes to his party, suggesting that the Liberal Party would be bound to lose the election regardless of strategic voting.\n\nDuring the 2015 federal election, strategic voting was primarily against the Conservative government of Stephen Harper which had benefited from vote splitting among centrist and left-leaning parties in the 2011 election. Following the landslide victory of the Liberals led by Justin Trudeau over Harper's Conservatives, observers noted that the increase in support for the Liberals at the expense of the NDP and Green Party was partially due to strategic voting for Liberal candidates.\n\nIn Hong Kong, with its party-list proportional representation using largest remainder method with the Hare quota, voters supporting candidates of the pro-democracy camp will organise to cast their votes to different tickets, so as to avoid votes being concentrated on one or a few candidates and wasted.\n\nIn 2016 Hong Kong Legislative Election, the practices of tactical voting were expanded by Benny Tai's Project ThunderGo. The Anti-establishment camp gained 29 seats, which was a historical record.\n\nPuerto Rico's 2004 elections were affected by tactical voting. The New Progressive Party's candidate was unpopular, except among the pro-statehood Right, because of large corruption schemes and privatization of public corporations. To prevent him from winning, other factions supported the Partido Popular Democratico's candidate. The elections were close; statehood advocates won a seat in the U.S. house of representatives and majorities in both legislative branches, but lost governance to Anibal Acevedo Vila. (In Puerto Rico you have the chance to vote by party or by candidate. Separatists voted under their ideology, but for the center party's candidate. This caused major turmoil.) After a recount and a trial, Anibal Acevedo Vila was certified as governor of the commonwealth of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 2011 Slovenian parliamentary election, 30% of voters voted tactically. Public polls predicted easy win for Janez Janša, the candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party, however his opponent Zoran Janković, the candidate of Positive Slovenia won. According to prominent Slovenian public opinion researchers, such proportions of tactical voting were not recorded anywhere else before.\n\nAcademic analysis of tactical voting is based on the rational voter model, derived from rational choice theory. In this model, voters are \"short-term instrumentally rational\". That is, voters are only voting in order to make an impact on one election at a time (not, say, to build the political party for next election); voters have a set of sincere preferences, or utility rankings, by which to rate candidates; voters have some knowledge of each other's preferences; and voters understand how best to use tactical voting to their advantage. The extent to which this model resembles real-life elections is the subject of considerable academic debate.\n\nAn example of a rational voter strategy is described by Myerson and Weber. The strategy is broadly applicable to a number of single-winner voting methods that are additive point methods, such as Plurality, Borda, Approval, and Range. The strategy is optimal in the sense that the strategy will maximize the voter's expected utility when the number of voters is sufficiently large.\n\nThis rational voter model assumes that the voter's utility of the election result is dependent only on which candidate wins and not on any other aspect of the election, for example showing support for a losing candidate in the vote tallies. The model also assumes the voter chooses how to vote individually and not in collaboration with other voters.\n\nGiven a set of \"k\" candidates and a voter let:\n\nThen the voter's prospective rating for a candidate \"i\" is defined as:\n\nThe gain in expected utility for a given vote is given by:\n\nThe gain in expected utility can be maximized by choosing a vote with suitable values of \"v\", depending on the voting method and the voter's prospective ratings for each candidate. For specific voting methods, the gain can be maximized using the following rules:\n\n\nAn important special case occurs when the voter has no information about how other voters will vote. This is sometimes referred to as the zero information strategy. In this special case, the \"p\" pivot probabilities are all equal and the rules for the specific voting methods become:\n\n\nMyerson and Weber also describe voting equilibria that require all voters use the optimal strategy and all voters share a common set of \"p\" pivot probabilities. Because of these additional requirements, such equilibria may in practice be less widely applicable than the strategies.\n\nBecause tactical voting relies heavily on voters' perception of how other voters intend to vote, campaigns in electoral methods that promote compromise frequently focus on affecting voter's perception of campaign viability. Most campaigns craft refined media strategies to shape the way voters see their candidacy. During this phase, there can be an analogous effect where campaign donors and activists may decide whether or not to support candidates tactically with their money and labor.\n\nIn rolling elections, or runoff votes, where some voters have information about previous voters' preferences (e.g. presidential primaries in the United States, French presidential elections), candidates put disproportionate resources into competing strongly in the first few stages, because those stages affect the reaction of later stages.\n\nSome people view tactical voting as providing misleading information. In this view, a ballot paper is asking the question \"which of these candidates is the best?\". This means that if one votes for a candidate who one does not believe is the best, then one is lying.\nBritish Labour Party politician Anne Begg said of tactical voting:\n\nTactical voting is commonly regarded as a problem, since it makes the actual ballot into a nontrivial game, where voters react and counter-react to what they expect other voters' strategies to be. A game such as this might even result in a worse alternative being chosen, because most of the voters used it as a strategic tool. However the existence of limited tactical voting can be thought to increase the quality of the candidates elected because it takes into account not just the \"ranking\" of the candidates but also the utilities.\n\nArrow's impossibility theorem and the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem prove that any useful single-winner voting method based on preference ranking is prone to some kind of manipulation. However, some use game theory to search for some kind of \"minimally manipulatable\" (incentive compatibility) voting schemes.\n\nGame theory can also be used to analyze the pros and cons of different methods. For instance, under purely honest voting, Condorcet method-like methods tend to settle on compromise candidates, while Instant-Runoff Voting favors those candidates which have strong core support - who may often be more extremist. An electorate using one of these two methods but which (in the general or the specific case) preferred the characteristics of the other method could consciously use strategy to achieve a result more characteristic of the other method. Under Condorcet, they may be able to win by \"burying\" the compromise candidate (although this risks throwing the election to the opposing extreme); while under IRV, they could always \"compromise\". It could be argued that in this case the option to vote tactically or not actually helps the electorate express its will, not only on which candidate is better, but on whether compromise is desirable. (This never applies to \"sneakier\" tactics such as push-over.)\n\nTactical voting greatly complicates the comparative analysis of voting methods. If tactical voting were to become significant, the perceived \"advantages\" of a given voting method (that is, tending towards compromise or favoring core support) could turn into disadvantages - and, more surprisingly, vice versa.\n\nTactical voting is highly dependent on the voting method being used. A tactical vote which improves a voter's satisfaction under one method could make no change or lead to a less-satisfying result under another method.\n\nMoreover, although by the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem no deterministic single-winner voting method is immune to tactical voting in all cases, some methods' results are more resistant to tactical voting than others'. M. Badinski and R. Laraki, the inventors of the majority judgment method, performed an initial investigation of this question using a set of Monte Carlo simulated elections based on the results from a poll of the 2007 French presidential election which they had carried out using rated ballots. Comparing range voting, Borda count, plurality voting, approval voting with two different absolute approval thresholds, Condorcet voting, and majority judgment, they found that range voting had the highest (worst) strategic vulnerability, while their own method majority judgment had the lowest (best). Further investigation would be needed to be sure that this result remained true with different sets of candidates.\n\nTactical voting by compromising is exceedingly common in plurality elections. The most typical tactic is to assess which two candidates are frontrunners (most likely to win) and to vote for the preferred one of those two, even if a third candidate is preferred over both. Duverger's law argues that this kind of tactical voting, along with the spoiler effect which can arise when such tactics are not used, will be so common that any method based on plurality will eventually result in two-party domination. Although this \"law\" is just an empirical observation rather than a mathematical certainty, it is generally supported by the evidence.\n\nDue to the especially deep impact of tactical voting in such a method, some argue that systems with three or more strong or persistent parties become in effect forms of disapproval voting, where the expression of disapproval in order to keep an opponent out of office overwhelms the expression of approval to elect a desirable candidate.\n\nThe presence of an electoral threshold (typically at around 5% or 4%) can lead to voters voting tactically for a different party to their preferred political party (which may be more hardline or more moderate) in order to ensure that the party passes the threshold. An alliance of parties can fail to win a majority despite outpolling their rivals if one party in the alliance falls beneath the threshold. An example of this is the 2009 Norwegian election in which the right-wing opposition parties won more votes between them than the parties in the governing coalition, but the narrow failure of the Liberal Party to cross the 4% threshold led to the governing coalition winning a majority.\n\nThis effect has sometimes been nicknamed \"Comrade 4%\" in Sweden, where the electoral threshold is 4%, particularly when referring to supporters of the Social Democrats who vote tactically for the more hardline Left Party. In the 2013 German federal election, the Free Democratic Party got only 4.8% of the votes so did not meet the 5% threshold. The party did not win any directly elected seats, so for the first time since 1949 was not represented in the Bundestag. Hence their ally the Christian Democratic Union had to form a grand coalition with the Social Democratic Party.\n\nIn several recent elections in New Zealand the National Party has suggested that National supporters in certain electorates should vote for minor parties or candidates who can win an electorate seat and would support a National government.This culminated in the Tea tape scandal when a meeting in the Epsom electorate in 2011 was taped. The meeting was to encourage National voters in the electorate to vote \"strategically\" for the ACT candidate; and it was suggested that Labour Party voters in the electorate should vote \"strategically\" for the National candidate as the Labour candidate could not win the seat but a National win in the seat would deprive National of an ally. The two major parties National and Labour always top up their electorate MPs with list MPs, so a National win in the seat would not increase the number of National MPs.\n\nEven in countries with a low threshold such as the Netherlands, tactical voting can still happen for other reasons. In the campaign for the 2012 Dutch election, the Socialist Party had enjoyed good poll ratings, but many voters who preferred the Socialists voted instead for the more centrist Labour Party out of fear that a strong showing from the Socialists would lead to political deadlock. It was also suggested that a symmetrical effect on the right caused the Party for Freedom to lose support to the more centrist VVD\n\nIn elections which there are many party lists competing with only a few seats, such as Hong Kong Legislative Council election, the outcome will tend to be similar to that of single non-transferable vote (SNTV): only the first candidate in a list will win. In such elections parties will split the candidates into multiple lists, since competing using \"remainder\" votes in both lists is easier than having \"full quota\" votes plus \"remainder\" votes if the party puts their candidates in a single list, and a list reaching \"full quota\" vote is considered a waste. In such elections the behavior of voters is similar that of SNTV elections: voters will avoid a candidate reaching the \"full quota\", and spread their votes to other candidates that have potential to win.\n\nIn Majority judgment, strategy is typically \"semi-honest exaggeration.\" Voters exaggerate the difference between a certain pair of candidates but do not rank any less-preferred candidate over any more-preferred one. Even this form of exaggeration can only have an effect if the voter's honest rating for the intended winner is below that candidate's median rating or their honest rating for the intended loser is above it.\n\nTypically, this would not be the case unless there were two similar candidates favored by the same set of voters. A strategic vote against a similar rival could result in a favored candidate winning; although if voters for both similar rivals used this strategy, it could cause a candidate favored by neither of these voter groups to win.\n\nBalinski and Laraki argue that since under Majority judgment, many voters have no opportunity to use strategy, in a test using simulated elections based on polling data, this method is the most strategy-resistant of the ones that the authors studied.\n\nSimilarly, in approval voting, unlike many other methods, strategy almost never involves ranking a less-preferred candidate over a more-preferred one. However, strategy is in fact inevitable when a voter decides their \"approval cutoff\"; this is a variation of the compromising strategy. Overall, Steven Brams and Dudley R. Herschbach argued in a paper in \"Science\" magazine in 2001 that approval voting was the method least amenable to tactical perturbations. Meanwhile, Balinski and Laraki used rated ballots from a poll of the 2007 French presidential election to show that, if unstrategic voters only approved candidates whom they considered \"very good\" or better, strategic voters would be able to sway the result frequently, but that if unstrategic voters approved all candidates they considered \"good\" or better, approval was the second most strategy-resistant method of the ones they studied.\n\nApproval voting forces voters to face an initial voting tactical decision as to whether to vote for (or approve) of their second-choice candidate or not. The voter may want to retain expression of preference of their favorite candidate over their second choice. But that does not allow the same voter to express preference of their second choice over any other. One simple situation in which Approval strategy is important is if there is a close election between two similar candidates A and B and one distinct one Z, in which Z has 49% support. If all of Z's supporters approve just him, in hopes of him getting just enough to win, then supporters of A are faced with a tactical choice of whether to approve A and B (getting one of their preferred choices but having no say in which) or approving just A (possibly helping choose her over B, but risking throwing the election to Z). B's supporters face the same dilemma.\n\nIn score voting, strategic voters who expect all other voters to be strategic will exaggerate their true preferences and use the same quasi-compromising strategy as in approval voting, above. That is, they will give all candidates either the highest possible or the lowest possible rating. This presents an additional problem as compared to the approval method if some voters give honest \"weak\" votes with middle rankings and other voters give strategic approval votes. A strategic minority could overpower an honest majority. To minimize this problem, some score voting advocates suggest measures such as education or ballot design to encourage uninformed voters to give more-extreme rankings. A different path to minimize this problem is to use median scores instead of total scores, as median scores are less amenable to exaggeration, as in majority judgment.\n\nHowever, if all voter factions have the same proportion of strategic and honest voters, simulations show that any significant proportion of honest voters will lead to results which tend to be more satisfying to voters than approval voting, and indeed, more satisfying than any other method with the same unbiased proportion of strategic voters.\n\nTactical voters are faced with the initial tactic as to how highly to score their second-choice candidate. The voter may want to retain expression of a high preference of their favorite candidate over their second choice. But that does not allow the same voter to express a high preference of their second choice over any others.\n\nIn a simulation study using polling data collected under a majority judgment method, that method's designers found that score voting was more vulnerable to strategy than any other method they studied, including plurality.\n\nInstant runoff voting is vulnerable to push-over and compromising strategies (although it is less vulnerable to compromising than the plurality method). Bullet voting is ineffective under Instant-runoff, since Instant-runoff satisfies the later-no-harm criterion.\n\nCondorcet methods have a further-reduced incentive for the compromising strategy, but they have some vulnerability to the burying strategy. The extent of this vulnerability depends on the particular Condorcet method. Some Condorcet methods arguably reduce the vulnerability to burying to the point where it is no longer a significant problem. All guaranteed Condorcet methods are vulnerable to the bullet voting strategy, because they violate the later-no-harm criterion.\n\nThe Borda count has both a strong compromising incentive and a large vulnerability to burying. Here is a hypothetical example of both factors at the same time: if there are two candidates the most likely to win, the voter can maximize the impact on the contest between these candidates by ranking the candidate the voter likes more in first place, ranking the candidate whom they like less in last place. If neither candidate is the sincere first or last choice, the voter is using both the compromising and burying strategies at once. If many different groups voters use this strategy, this gives a paradoxical advantage to the candidate generally thought least likely to win.\n\nThe Single transferable vote has an incentive for free riding, a form of compromising strategy sometimes used in proportional representation methods. If one's top-choice candidate is elected, only a fraction of one's vote will be transferred to one's next-favoured candidate. If one feels the favoured candidate is certain to be elected in any case, insincerely ranking the second candidate first guarantees them a full vote if needed. However, the greater the certainty of the first candidate being elected, the bigger their likely surplus, the higher the fraction of the vote that would be transferred to the next candidate, and hence the lower the proportionate benefit of tactical voting.\n\nMore sophisticated tactics may be practicable where the number of candidates, voters and/or seats to be filled is relatively small.\n\nSome forms of STV allow tactical voters to gain an advantage by listing a candidate who is very likely to lose in first place, as a form of \"pushover\". Meek's method essentially eliminates this strategy.\n\nThe term \"tactical unwind\" is used by some political scientists and commentators to refer to the phenomenon when tactical voting takes place in one general election but in subsequent elections voters revert to their normal patterns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37650785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37650785", "title": "Theodore W. Allen", "text": "Theodore W. Allen\n\nTheodore William \"Ted\" Allen (August 23, 1919January 19, 2005) was an American intellectual, writer, and activist, best known for his pioneering writings since the 1960s on \"white skin privilege\" and the \"invention\" of the white race, particularly his seminal \"Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race,\" published as a pamphlet in 1975, and published the next year in expanded form. He stressed that the white race was invented as \"a ruling class social control formation.\"\n\nAn independent, working-class scholar, Allen did research for the next quarter century to expand and document his ideas, particularly on the relation of white supremacy to the working class. He published a two-volume work, \"The Invention of the White Race\" (1994 and 1997): \"The Invention of the White Race,\" Vol. 1: \"Racial Oppression and Social Control\" (1994, 2012) and \"The Invention of the White Race,\" Vol. 2: \"The Origin of Racial Oppression in Anglo-America\" (1997, 2012); which explored racial oppression as a system of social control (in Volume 1) and the origin of racial oppression in Anglo-America (in Volume 2). It was republished by Verso Books in a new expanded edition in November 2012.\n\nTheodore William Allen was born into a middle-class family in Indianapolis, Indiana. He had a sister Eula May and brother Tom; their parents were Thomas E. Allen, a sales manager, and Almeda Earl Allen, a housewife. The family moved when he was a child to Paintsville, Kentucky, and then to Huntington, West Virginia, where he lived and, in his words, \"was proletarianized\" during the Great Depression. When Allen started working soon after high school (deciding that college did not do enough for independent thought), he quickly joined labor unions.\n\nAllen became an early activist and organizer in the labor movement. At age 17, he joined the American Federation of Musicians Local 362 and the Communist Party, and soon was elected as a delegate to the Huntington Central Labor Union, AFL. He subsequently worked as a coal miner in West Virginia as a member of the United Mine Workers, serving as an organizer and president of one Local and later member of another. He also co-developed a trade union organizing program for the Marion County, West Virginia Industrial Union Council, CIO.\n\nIn the 1940s Allen moved to New York City, a center for labor activism and intellectual work. He did industrial economic research at the Labor Research Association, based in the city. He taught economics at the Jefferson School of Social Science, founded in New York by the Communist Party in 1944. Allen taught there into the 1950s, when the school closed, due to declining membership in the party and pressure from scrutiny by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) of Congress, which was conducting hearings during the McCarthy era.\n\nAllen also taught math at the Crown Heights Yeshiva in Brooklyn, where he lived, and the Grace Church School in New York. During his more than six decades in New York, Allen had a variety of jobs, from factory worker to retail clerk, mechanical design draftsman, postal mail handler (and member of the Local of the National Postal Mail Handlers Union), and librarian at the Brooklyn Public Library.\n\nBeginning in 1965, he was published as an independent scholar. He conducted decades of research to develop his ideas about the labor, class and racial history of the United States.\n\nIn 1965 Allen published articles on the concept of white skin privilege for all classes of whites, examining the relation of the working class to white supremacy. He explored this in \"\"White Blindspot\" and \"Can White Workers Radicals Be Radicalized?\"\" (1967, 1967), co-authored with Noel Ignatiev.\n\nAfter beginning his research on \"white skin privilege\" in 1965, Allen worked for the next decade to develop more research and writing on this topic. He published \"Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race\" (1975). During this time, he also taught as an adjunct history instructor for one semester at Essex County Community College in Newark, New Jersey. He was described by historian Jeffrey B. Perry as working \"throughout his entire adult life ... for the emancipation of the working class and for socialism.\"\n\nHis work since the 1960s was intended to overturn explanations for white supremacy that relied on biology or attributed it to benefits gained by the working class. Allen emphasized that the \"invention of the white race\" was related to class struggle and to ruling class efforts to maintain social control.\n\nAllen published outside the academic press and his work was highly influential, at a time of the civil rights movement, when issues of race, ethnicity and culture were being studied and overturned. He also documented how later Irish immigrants to the U.S. became \"white.\" The concept of \"race\" was also being overturned by work in anthropology, genetics, biology, history and other disciplines. By 1997, historian George M. Fredrickson of Stanford University wrote that \"the proposition that race is 'a social and cultural construction,' has become an academic cliché,\" but Allen was not satisfied with that proposition and he emphasized that \"the 'white race' must be understood, not simply as a social construct (rather than an genetic phenomenon), but as a ruling class social control formation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23609641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23609641", "title": "Tobacco quota", "text": "Tobacco quota\n\nIn the United States, Tobacco quotas (poundage quotas, and in some cases acreage allotments) were a supply control feature of federal price support for tobacco. Burley tobacco was subject to marketing quotas and flue-cured tobacco was subject to marketing quotas and acreage allotments. Tobacco quota owners (owners of farmland to which quota is assigned) voted every three years on whether or not to continue with price support (through no-net-cost loans) and marketing quotas. Producers of several minor tobaccos (including Maryland (type 32), Pennsylvania cigar-filler (type 41), and Connecticut Valley cigar-binder (types\n51-52)) had disapproved federal support. The national marketing quota (basic quota) was calculated according to a formula specified by law that included consideration of intended purchases by domestic manufacturers, average exports over the preceding three years, and reserve stock requirements. The effective quota was the basic quota plus and minus temporary adjustments for allowable previous year under and over marketings. The Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-357, Title VI) ended tobacco quotas for 2005 crop and subsequent years.\n"}
{"id": "40810901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40810901", "title": "Vikalpahin nahin hai duniya", "text": "Vikalpahin nahin hai duniya\n\nVikalpaHin Nahin Hai Duniya (Hindi: विकल्पहीन नहीं है दुनिया) is a book written by Kishen Pattanayak published in 2000 that deals with the alternatives to capitalistic developments. It is a collection of 44 articles on crises of society, politics, Gandhism, nuke issues, journalism, intellectual, education system, modern science, starvation death of Kalahandi and politics. The articles are arranged in 5 segments in the book.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2173554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2173554", "title": "Walt Brown (creationist)", "text": "Walt Brown (creationist)\n\nWalter T. Brown (b. Aug 1937) is a young Earth creationist, who is the director of his own ministry called the Center for Scientific Creation. \"The Skeptic's Dictionary\" considers him to be one of the leaders of the creation science movement. He proposes a specific version of flood geology called the Hydroplate Theory. He is a retired army officer with a degree in mechanical engineering. \n\nBrown has a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a B.S. from West Point and he served as an officer in the United States military until he retired in 1980.\n\nSince retiring from the military in 1980, Brown has been the director of his \"Center for Scientific Creation\" and has done his own research, writing, and speaking on origins theory. In 1998, Brown was appointed to a committee reviewing Arizona's state science standards. Evolution was retained in the Arizona state science standards after a final decision in August 1998.\n\nIn Brown's \"In the Beginning: Compelling Evidence for Creation and the Flood\" he suggests evidence against evolution and for creation science and flood geology (including hydroplates). It is divided into three sections, the first of which explores discoveries made by scientists that do not fit the theory of evolution. The second section outlines various alternate explanations to geological and astronomical subjects such as the mid-oceanic ridge and comets, which Brown states evolutionary science cannot explain. The final section presents a variety of other questions encountered in the creation-evolution controversy.\n\nIn 1989, the Creation/Evolution journal of the National Center for Science Education published a critique of Brown's theory. Jim Lippard, graduate student of philosophy begins with a criticism focusing primarily on fossil evidence of human evolution. Brown addressed several of Lippard's points in his response, and three further articles were printed: Lippard, Brown, and ending with Lippard, where he asserts that Brown made serious errors, including using \"mistaken claims about what others have written.\" The series of articles does not discuss Brown's Hydroplate Theory, apart from Brown's claim that Lippard \"dismisses or ignores the bulk of the book and specifically addresses only a very small fraction of its substance.\"\n\nRobert T. Pennock has described Brown's position as being typical, other than the unique feature of his hydroplates hypothesis, of young-earth creationist's explaining all major terrestrial features in terms of a catastrophic Biblical flood.\n\nWalt Brown has had contentious relations with other creationist organizations. Answers in Genesis has a standing offer to Brown to publish some of his material in their journals but Brown has declined. The old earth creationist organization Answers in Creation has published material rebutting Brown's hydroplate theory. The Christian American Scientific Affiliation website features a video critical of Brown's video \"God's Power and Scriptures Authority\" by Steven H. Schimmrich of Kutztown University. \nBrown has stated that no \"evolutionist\" will publicly debate with him, but has been accused by opponents of complicating such debates. An abortive attempt at such a debate was held in 1989 and 1990 in the pages of Creation/Evolution, the National Center for Science Education journal, before Brown refused to continue. Joe Meert of \"Gondwana Research\", a journal promoting research related to the origin and evolution of continents, alleges he \"signed a contract\" for such a debate with Brown in 2000. He claims Brown disputed the terms of the contract and it did not take place. Brown stated on his website that the actual reason for the debate not taking place was that the Meert wanted to add religion and since Dr. Brown is not a theologian, he wanted the debate to be strictly science. According to Georgia State University biology professor Fred K. Parrish, who afterwards claimed he was \"tricked\" into an April 1985 public debate with Brown, claims Brown has a set of preconditions (such as Brown speaks first, the debate moderator sits on his side, and all debate material would be scientific, not religious in nature).\n\n\n"}
