{"id": "49177962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49177962", "title": "2015–16 protests in Moldova", "text": "2015–16 protests in Moldova\n\nIn the spring of 2015, Moldova faced large-scale protests amid a worsening economic situation and corruption scandals. The protests gained momentum in September, when up to 100,000 people demonstrated in the largest protest since Moldova's independence from the Soviet Union in August 1991.\n\nThe protests have been organised by a grass-roots citizens' movement, \"Dignity and Truth\" (), that was established in February 2015 as a response to the disappearance of $1 billion from the Moldovan banks in 2014. Dignity and Truth is led by lawyers, journalists and other well-known figures in Moldova.\n\nIn Moldova, one of Europe's poorest countries, nearly 17% of the population live below the poverty line. Moreover, with an average wage of about $129 per month, Moldova reportedly has the lowest standard of living in Europe.\n\nIn 2014, $1 billion vanished from three of Moldova's leading banks. In two days loans worth $1 billion were transferred in to United Kingdom and Hong Kong-registered companies whose ultimate owners are unknown. Banks are administered by the National Bank of Moldova, so this loss was covered from state reserves. This protected depositors but created a hole in Moldovan public finances equivalent to an eighth of the country's GDP. Protesters claim this damaged their living standards.\n\nThe issue highlighted the problem of corruption in Moldova and although the government has promised an investigation, protest leaders have called for a campaign of civil disobedience, a general strike and a refusal to pay utility bills in order to force the resignation of the government. Likewise, as a response to the $1 billion disappearance the grass-roots citizens' movement \"Dignity and Truth\" () was established in February 2015. This organization is led by lawyers, journalists and other well-known figures in Moldova.\n\nUnification with Romania is seen as a solution to Moldova's economic, political and social crisis, but also in the context of the tensions in neighbouring Ukraine. Polls up to May 2015 showed 10 to 20 percent of Moldovans supported unification.\n\nThe protests are dubbed in the international press as the Moldovan Maidan (due to similar circumstances with Ukrainian Euromaidan) and Anti-oligarchic movement. In Moldova, media outlets cataloged the events as a Red Revolution, due to involvement of communist and socialist parties in the protests.\n\nThe protesters have formed two distinct camps: pro-European sympathizers and those who support pro-Russian parties. But while they may be separated by aspirations and ideologies, both sides have similar aims: the resignation of the government, the conviction of corrupt oligarchs and early elections.\n\nFor those in the pro-Russian camp, the corruption cases have provoked a crisis of confidence in the European project. Moldova signed an association agreement with the European Union in 2013, committing to core reforms, economic recovery, sector cooperation and justice, but anti-European sentiment is growing. An April 2015 poll found that 32% of Moldovans favoured joining the EU, a decrease of 46 percent compared to 78% in 2007.\n\nThe National Farmers Federation of Moldova, the Republican Association \"UniAgroProtect\", the National Farmers Federation \"AGROinform\" and the Association \"Moldova-Fruct\" organized on 27 March and 15 April protest action by farmers throughout the country. According to organizers, the protests mobilized more than 5,000 farmers. They blocked national roads with agricultural machinery.\n\nFarmers oppose a VAT increase from 8% to 20% and demand swift access to a credit line of nearly €100 million offered by Poland with a subsidized interest rate. Farmers say that, because of the devaluation of the leu, resulting from \"de facto\" nationalization of the banks at the heart of the economic crisis, they can't service outstanding loans. They had several meetings with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance, but were not satisfied with the result. The farmers' demands include replenishment of subsidy funds in 2015 to 1.2 billion lei, the release of the lending process in agriculture and the decrease of the lending interest rate.\n\nTens of thousands of people across the country gathered in downtown Chișinău, at the call of the \"Dignity and Truth\" Platform, in an action of protest against the collapse of the financial and banking system, but also against judicial corruption. Demonstrators chanted slogans against the government led by Chiril Gaburici and demanded the unification of Romania and Moldova. Gaburici resigned on 22 June after an investigation into alleged fraud in his educational qualifications and was replaced permanently by Valeriu Streleț on 30 July.\n\nOn 3 May, up to 50,000 people protested against the Government of Moldova, saying it had failed to implement reforms to bring the country closer to the European Union. Protesters also called on the government to investigate the disappearance of $1 billion (nearly 1/8 of the country's GDP) from the state-owned Savings Bank and the private banks \"Unibank\", \"Banca de Economii\" and \"Banca Socială\", in November 2014 before parliamentary elections. The central bank commissioned risk consultancy Kroll to conduct a preliminary investigation into the activities of the three stricken banks. Their findings were confidential but on 4 May parliament speaker Andrian Candu published what he said was Kroll's report on his website. \"There appears to have been a deliberate plan to gain control of each of the banks and subsequently manipulate transactions to gain access to credit, whilst giving the appearance to the contrary\", the report said. The protest activities were mobilized by the newly founded citizen platform called \"Dignity and Truth\" – allegedly financed by Viorel and Victor Topa, two exiled businessmen – to which leading personalities in Moldovan civil society belong.\n\nA protest took place on 14 May, in Bucharest, in front of the Embassy of the Republic of Moldova, calling for an \"urgent revocation of abusive measures\" taken by the Chișinău authorities against Romanian citizen George Simion. The measure was seen as an attempt to intimidate the protest announced for 16 May. Simion had come to Moldova to help organize and take part in the march. He was expelled for five years on 14 May on grounds that his activities could endanger national security. Despite this, more than 25,000 people gathered in Grand National Assembly Square in the largest pro-Romanian manifestation in Chișinău in recent years. Most of the protesters were young people and intellectuals. They demanded the unification of Romania and Moldova and displayed placards with unionist and anti-Russian messages. Demonstrators were joined, among others, by Mayor of Chișinău Dorin Chirtoacă. Column of protesters made several stops in front of the embassies of Romania, Germany, the United States and Russia. Participants at the unionist march voted for the formation of the \"National Unity Bloc\" (), adjoining 22 non-governmental entities, including: Civic Movement \"Youth of Moldova\", Unionist Platform \"Action 2012\", Association \"Light\" of Transnistrian Teachers, Queen Helen Foundation, Children Charity Foundation \"Sidereal Moment\", Association of Former Deportees in USSR, Association \"Tiras-Bender\", etc. The march ended with the signing of a Pact of Union, Pact for Europe.\n\nA bus with 50 members of the Moldovan Youth organization and others who wanted to attend the rally were blocked and legitimated by police in Cahul. Meanwhile, about 40 high school students from Florești were warned by telephone, through parents, by the police that if they participate in demonstrations on 16 May, they would suffer as during the protests of 7 April 2009.\n\nRomanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta conducted a visit to Chișinău on the occasion of Moldovan Independence Day, being greeted by about 200 young men with masks featuring George Simion. \"We want to see justice done in the case of George Simion, we want functional justice and we believe that true sovereignty, independence and freedom can only be achieved through union\", stated Anatol Ursu, one of the organizers of the flash mob.\n\nAfter pressure from civil society and Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu, Chișinău Court of Appeal decided, on 18 September, to lift the ban imposed on George Simion.\n\nOn 22 September, Romanian and Moldovan governments met in joint session, in Neptun. At the same time, over 300 people gathered outside the building where the meeting was held, demanding unification of Moldova with Romania. Before the meeting began, protesters tried to force the cordon of gendarmes to get closer to the building, and some of them jostled with law enforcers. The heads of the two governments agreed to talk to the unionists.\n\nOn 5 July 2015, up to 30,000 people, according to organizers, gathered in Grand National Assembly Square, Chișinău, facing Government House and the Monument to the Victims of the Soviet Occupation, to demand the unification of Romania and Moldova. Participants chanted unionist slogans and voted symbolically for a union. Organized by Unionist Platform \"Action 2012\" and Youth of Moldova, the manifestation was claimed to be one of the largest in the recent history of Moldova and the fourth great national gathering after those of 27 August 1989 (calling for a restoration of the Latin script), 16 December 1990 (in support of changing the name of the state to Republic of Moldova) and 27 August 1991 (celebrating the proclamation of independence from the USSR). Among participants were present Members of the Romanian Parliament and Moldovans from the Diaspora.\n\nThousands of young people among the participants in the Great National Gathering headed to Bucharest in the March of Stephen the Great () calling for the unification of Moldova with Romania. The march lasted a week, from 5 to 11 July. In the Republic of Moldova, the march followed the route Strășeni–Lozova–Călărași–Cornești–Ungheni. Participants crossed the Prut River, on 11 July, at 10 a.m., in a large-scale reenactment of the Bridges of Flowers in 1990. Their march ended in Bucharest, where were greeted by several hundred Romanian citizens in University Square, before making their way to the Cotroceni Palace to call on Romanian President Klaus Iohannis to support the unification project. Former Moldovan President Vladimir Voronin has sharply condemned the march to Romania. In a letter to European Parliament President Martin Schulz, released on 7 July, Voronin accused Bucharest of fomenting \"the destruction and annexation of Moldova\".\n\nTens of thousands of people manifested in Chișinău at the call of the Justice and Truth Platform. According to police, between 35,000 and 40,000 people attended the demonstration, while organizers estimated around 100,000 participants. The protest was the biggest since Moldova's independence movement in the early 1990s, bigger even than the mass anti-communist protests of April 2009. Participants adopted a resolution demanding early elections, the resignation of President Nicolae Timofti and all leading institutions of law, including the Prosecutor General's office and the National Anticorruption Center.\nClashes broke out with police at the prosecutor general's headquarters, where activists attempted to set up an occupy-style tent encampment. Opposition leaders have accused the prosecutor general of being an instrument of political persecution. Supporters of the radical left Red Bloc Party tried to break the police cordon and forcibly enter the prosecutor's office. Police detained seven activists, including Antifa movement leader, Grigory Petrenko. A team from a local television station in Moldova was accosted by demonstrators. Likewise, six policemen were injured and one woman was hospitalised. According to Interior Minister Oleg Balan, \"their scope was to devastate the prosecutor's office\". Police removed tents in front of the prosecutor's office. However, more than 90 tents were set up by protesters in Grand National Assembly Square, vowing to continue their protest until demands are met.\n\nThree Russian journalists from the pro-Kremlin television \"LifeNews\" were detained at Chișinău International Airport. They were forbidden to enter the Republic of Moldova. The film crew intended to publicize the protests. Russian officials reacted to the arrest of three journalists. \"Actions of the new leadership in Chișinău demonstrate their unwillingness to have constructive relations with Russia\", stated Maria Zakharova, the official representative of the Russian Foreign Ministry. In the same context, Zakharova mentions that authorities' actions against Russian journalists \"violate freedom of speech and access to information\".\n\nPrime Minister Valeriu Streleț invited protest organisers to \"talks\", at the Ministry of Agriculture headquarters, but they announced they will not attend the meeting. A group of representatives of the Platform previously participated in a meeting with Streleț, at the Government headquarters, where they asked him to sign the list of claims, which was presented in the square. Amid the protests against the oligarchic regime, Vladimir Plahotniuc fled Moldova the same day for Geneva.\n\nConcomitantly with the meeting, the Unité phone company, belonging state-owned telco Moldtelecom, announced intentions to organise a free, open air concert, immediately criticised as an attempt to undermine the protest. Under the pressure of comments on social networks, many artists, starting with Ștefan Bănică, Jr., have declined participation, which could be interpreted as a political gesture.\n\nA week later, another major protest took place in Chișinău, attracting 20,000 people from all over Moldova. Clashes between supporters of the \"Dignity and Justice\" civic platform and a group advocating Moldova's unification with Romania broke out soon after the rally began. The city centre has been cordoned off and many law enforcers were deployed on the streets. A resolution was adopted at the end of the demonstration, in which protesters call for a general strike and formation of a political movement and a so-called government of popular trust.\n\nOn 29 November, another protest organized by DA Platform took place in the Grand National Assembly Square. Demonstrators and supporters of the platform have expressed dissatisfaction with the political and economic situation in the country and called for early elections. To ensure security, hundreds of police formed two cordons in front of the Government. During the protest, DA Platform representatives said they will create a political party. Protests also took place in Bălți, Orhei, Cahul, Hîncești, Ungheni and Soroca.\n\nOn 13 January 2016, 56 deputies of the parliamentary coalition formed around PD proposed controversial businessman Vlad Plahotniuc for the position of prime minister. The proposal was immediately rejected by President Nicolae Timofti, invoking integrity reasons. Timofti asked coalition representatives to propose another name until 14 January at 12 a.m. In the evening of 13 January, the coalition announced that will propose again Plahotniuc, thus escalating the constitutional conflict. The same day, two rallies took place in Chișinău, one that supports Vlad Plahotniuc for the position of prime minister and another that opposes the nomination. Next day, protests continued, with tens of thousands of people demonstrating in central Chișinău against Plahotniuc. By night, Timofti nominated the Secretary General of the Presidency, Ion Păduraru, candidate for this position, defying PD's proposal. However, Ion Păduraru announced his withdrawal from the race in less than 24 hours after the announcement of his nomination. He justified his gesture by the fact that the parliamentary majority has already nominated another proposal of premier, and President Timofti will consider it as a compromise solution. On 16 January, the parliamentary coalition grouped around the Democratic Party of Vlad Plahotniuc announced that disagrees with the proposal of President Timofti and came up with a new proposal for premier, instead of Plahotniuc – Pavel Filip. Later that day, up to 20,000 people joined three different rallies that were organized by both the left Socialist Party of Moldova and the centre-right Civic Platform DA. The protesters called on the Moldovan president and chief prosecutor to resign, demanding early elections and prompt measures against corruption. They also opposed the nomination of Pavel Filip to the post of Prime Minister.\n\nOn 20 January, a majority of 57 MPs voted in favor of PD-backed Pavel Filip Government. During the parliamentary meeting, the Parliament building was surrounded by about 1,000 protesters that demanded the interruption of the vote. They broke a side door of the Parliament and entered the building, forcing the cordon of gendarmes. Many gendarmes offered no resistance, being dragged out of the device and giving up shields and batons. After several hours, police intervened in force, removing the protesters from the Parliament and cordoning the building off. 15 people, six protesters and nine gendarmes, suffered contusions after confrontations at Parliament. One of them was President of the Liberal Party, Mihai Ghimpu, who had his head broken, being hit by protesters while leaving the Parliament.\n\nThousands of people calling for Moldova's reunification with Romania took to the streets of Chișinău on 27 March in a so-called \"march of reunion\". The rally organizers say some 50,000 people took part in the protests while police put the number at 5,000–6,000 people. The rally was meant to mark the 98th anniversary since Bessarabia was unified with the Kingdom of Romania on 27 March 1918. A bomb alert was triggered at Nicolae Sulac National Palace, during the formation of platform \"Sfatul Țării 2\", that brings together the unionist organizations in Moldova fighting for the unification with Romania. Sappers and firefighters were deployed on the spot, but found that the alarm was false. Representatives of Voievod Movement held a counter manifestation. They were surrounded by law enforcers in order to avoid the degeneration of the situation.\n\nOn 11 June 2017 a new protest took place at Chișinău: around 4.000 citizens took part at a protest against adopting a law of mixed voting system, promoted by the Democratic Party of Moldova, seen by the Venice Commission and European rights experts as inappropriate for Moldova. On 17 September 2017 a new protest took place: the protesters have manifested again against the mixed voting system.\n\nFormer prime minister Vlad Filat, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova, was detained in parliament on 15 October over the theft of $1 billion from the banking system. Masked officers entered the Moldovan parliament to handcuff and arrest Filat, while anti-government protesters had blocked the exits to the building for most of the day to prevent him leaving. Moments earlier, the lawmakers voted to strip Filat of his parliamentary immunity. Vlad Filat is accused of passive corruption and influence peddling. He would preted bribe €250 million from Ilan Shor to determine legislative decisions to diminish the position of the Moldovan state in the Savings Bank. Ilan Shor, Mayor of Orhei, is also accused in the \"Robbery of the century\" corruption case, as the media named the $1 billion bank fraud.\n\nOn 16 October, the National Bank of Moldova has withdrawn the licenses of financial activity for Savings Bank, Social Bank and Unibank. Thus has begun the process of liquidation thereof.\n\nOn 29 October, three months after formation, the Streleț government was dismissed through a motion of censure, voted in favour by 65 MPs. The government's dismissal was enacted through the votes of the Socialist, Communist, and Democratic Party deputies. The stated reason underlying the motion was \"suspicion of the corruption of Prime Minister Valeriu Streleț\". Soon after the vote, the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs reacted, saying that stability of government should be allowed to prevail and the pro-European mandate given in the results of the November 2014 elections should be executed.\n\nIgor Dodon, leader of the country's largest opposition party, the influential Moscow-friendly Socialist Party, has denounced the government's silence toward what he described as \"officials and representatives of right-wing extremist, nationalist and \"neo-Nazi\" groups from Romania who attended the 5 July gathering.\n\nAfter a first meeting with the leaders of the protesters, Moldovan PM Valeriu Streleț stated that his government would resign only in case of a no-confidence vote in Parliament. In a message published on the Presidency page, Nicolae Timofti cataloged the 6 September demonstration as a democratic exercise. As for his resignation, Timofti said he won't resign because \"such a decision would bring instability to the Republic of Moldova\".\n\nAccording to Dorin Chirtoacă, Mayor of Chișinău, pressure from society must exist, but organizers of protests should correctly calculate their forces and actions. He also stated that eventual early elections would further destabilize the situation in Moldova. A similar position was adopted by Moldova's parliament speaker, Andrian Candu, saying such a move would leave the country stuck in economic crisis. During the September protests, Dorin Chirtoacă has called for the tents to be removed from the central boulevard and claimed that not only is the protest illegal, but that it is being fomented by Moscow. He has claimed that Renato Usatîi and Igor Dodon are puppets of Vladimir Putin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21511830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21511830", "title": "Bankhead–Jones Act of 1935", "text": "Bankhead–Jones Act of 1935\n\nThe Bankhead-Jones Act was enacted on June 29, 1935 during the Depression, to provide increased federal funding to land grant colleges. Under the law as was last increased in 1972, $8,100,000 per year is divided equally between all states, and another $4,360,000 is divided between the states based upon each state's population. These federal funds are subject to matching by the states.\n\n"}
{"id": "55554061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55554061", "title": "Chief veterinary officer (Hungary)", "text": "Chief veterinary officer (Hungary)\n\nThe Chief Veterinary Officer of Hungary, as a chief veterinary officer, is the supervisor of the National Food Chain Safety Office, and in general, the governmental veterinary services including animal health, animal protection and welfare and food chain safety control. Besides organizing and operating veterinary public health, he plays a significant role in international agricultural and trade affairs, in which the animal health and food safety status usually an important issue. His responsibilities are detailed in the law XLVI of 2008 on food chain and its authority control.\n\nThis is a list of the chief veterinary officers of Hungary in chronological order:\n\n"}
{"id": "44280038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44280038", "title": "Class Wargames", "text": "Class Wargames\n\nClass Wargames is a situationist ludic-science group based in London. Founded by Richard Barbrook and Fabian Tompsett in 2007, the group has since reproduced Guy Debord's \"Le Jeu de la Guerre\" and proceeded to tour Europe, Asia and South America. In contrast to the electronic version of Debord's game, created by the Radical Software Group, Class Wargames is based on a real rather than digital version of the Game of War and allows for convivial interaction through which anyone can become a situationist.\n\n"}
{"id": "22403792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22403792", "title": "DontGo", "text": "DontGo\n\nDontGo (also commonly spelled in numerous other ways such as Don't Go, DontGO, and Don'tGO) is a free market political activist non-profit group founded by American conservative Patrick Ruffini, who had previously created the blog \"The Next Right\", and libertarian Eric Odom, an internet marketer living in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nThe group started during the August 2008 offshore oil drilling debate in the House of Representatives, their members strongly favored further drilling and supported the Republican revolt on the issue. Founders Odom and Ruffini intended for their website to work as a clearinghouse of information for the Republicans. The name came from conservatives who had asked the House not to shut down for their annual summer break in 2008. Critics of the group accused it of taking contributions from oil companies. Eric Odom strongly disputes the charges, saying that he's \"still waiting on those magical checks\".\n\nEric Odom has stated that \"Our agenda is to declare war on incumbency and long term power. The group's mission statement on its website labels it \"for anyone who supports free markets, low-taxes, low-regulation and personal freedoms.\" Three national conservative groups, DontGo, FreedomWorks, and Americans for Prosperity led the tea party movement in April, 2009, according to \"The Atlantic\" magazine, which referred to DontGo as a \"tech savvy\" \"online rapid response team\".\n\nThe group is instrumental in co-coordinating the Nationwide Chicago Tea Party, which led to the Tax Day Tea Party protests. It claims to have worked with 700 separate demonstrations. Odom, a Bob Barr supporter with libertarian leanings, opposes too much Republican involvement with their protests. Notably, he turned down a request from Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele to speak at the group's Chicago protest. After the snub, the Republican National Committee released a statement saying that \"They're just having a little fun.\"\n"}
{"id": "50711203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50711203", "title": "Edible tableware", "text": "Edible tableware\n\nEdible tableware is tableware, such as plates, drinkware and glasses, utensils and cutlery, that is edible. Edible tableware can be homemade and has also been mass-produced by some companies, and can be prepared using many various foods.\n\nEdible tableware can be homemade and is also mass-produced, and is prepared from various foods. For example, homemade tableware can be fashioned using sliced celery as chopsticks, and celery can also be used to scoop foods such as dips and cream cheese. A leaf of cabbage can be used as a spoon, and a carrot stick that has been sharpened can be used as a skewer. Edible bowls and plates can be prepared with many methods. Bread which has had its center removed can be used for soups, and similarly, baking cheese in an oven and forming the cheese into the desired shape. Chocolate can also be fashioned into edible tableware.\n\nFlatbread such as khobez is sometimes used as an eating utensil, such as when it's used to scoop hummus, and Ethiopian injera bread is used as a utensil to scoop wat. In West Africa, flatbread is sometimes used to scoop fufu for consumption. In India, chapati flatbread is used as a utensil to consume sambar and dhal. In Central America, the tortilla is used as a utensil to scoop various foods such as salsa and bean dips. Foods such as crackers, corn and tortilla chips, crudités, bread and cheese sticks can also be used as edible utensils.\n\n\nEdible tableware such as cups, bowls, plates and platters prepared using sugar paste have been in use since at least the Elizabethan era and edible tableware was considered as a sign of wealth. in 1562, a recipe for edible tableware and cutlery prepared as sugar confectioneries was published by Alexius Pedemontanus in a manual he authored.\n"}
{"id": "56384680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56384680", "title": "Encounter killing of Naqeebullah Mehsud", "text": "Encounter killing of Naqeebullah Mehsud\n\nThe encounter killing of Naqeebullah Mehsud occurred on 13 January 2018, in the eastern suburbs of Karachi, following the encounter carried out by Rao Anwar. Mehsud was charged with militancy and links with Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. The claim was contested by the relatives and subsequently an inquiry team was formed to investigate the killing. The investigation found that Mehsud was innocent, and that before his murder, he was forcefully abducted during a raid by police personnel on the evening of 3 January 2018 in Karachi. He went missing for 10 days and was then killed in a fake encounter.\n\n"}
{"id": "6473266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6473266", "title": "Estonian Patriotic Movement", "text": "Estonian Patriotic Movement\n\nThe Estonian Patriotic Movement (\"Eesti Rahvuslik Liikumine\", ERL) was a political pressure group in Estonia. The group was set up in the middle of 2006 to promote the removal of the monument to the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn from the heart of the Estonian capital, Tallinn. In February 2012, it claimed a membership of 268.\n\n, the primary political positions of the ERL were opposition to building the planned Nord Stream pipeline through the Baltic Sea, dislike for Estonia being a member state of the European Union, support for a NATO military base being installed in Estonia and disdain for the Estonian Centre Party's perceived improper acts.\n\nThe movement has also repeatedly expressed displeasure for the Russian Federation's covert influence in Estonia's internal affairs. On June 20, 2007, the movement issued a press release demanding declaring the Russian Ambassador to Estonia, Nikolai Uspenski, a \"persona non grata\" based on his repeated attempts to exert such influence. This was triggered by the ambassador's presence at an establishment meeting of Russki Mir in Tallinn.\n\nIn February 2012, it was announced that the movement would merge with the People's Union of Estonia to form the Estonian Conservative People's Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1724723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724723", "title": "Ethnocracy", "text": "Ethnocracy\n\nAn ethnocracy is a type of political structure in which the state apparatus is appropriated by a dominant ethnic group (or groups) to further its interests, power and resources. Ethnocratic regimes typically display a combination of 'thin' democratic facade covering a more profound ethnic structure, in which ethnicity (or race, or religion) – and not citizenship – is the key to securing power and resources. An ethnocratic society facilitates the ethnicization of the state by the dominant group, through the expansion of control, often through conflict with minorities and neighboring states.\n\nIn the 20th century, a few states passed, or attempted to pass, nationality laws, through efforts that share certain similarities. All took place in countries with at least one national minority that sought full equality in the state or in a territory that had become part of the state and in which it had lived for generations. Nationality laws were passed in societies that felt threatened by these minorities' aspirations of integration and demands for equality, resulting in regimes that turned xenophobia into major tropes. Nationality laws were passed in states that were grounded in one ethnic identity, defined in contrast to the identity of the other, leading to persecution of and codified discrimination against minorities.\n\nResearch shows that several spheres of regime control are vital for ethnocratic regimes, including the armed forces, police, land administration, immigration control and economic development. These power government instruments ensure the long-term domination of the leading ethnic groups, and the stratification of society into 'ethnoclasses', which has been exacerbated by the recent stage of capitalism, with its typical neo-liberal policies. Ethnocracies often manage to contain ethnic conflict in the short term by effective control over minorities, and by effectively using the 'thin' procedural democratic façade. However, they tend to become unstable in the long term, suffering from repeated conflict and crisis, which are resolved by either substantive democratization, partition, or regime devolution into consociational arrangements. Alternatively, ethnocracies that do not resolve their internal conflict may deteriorate into periods of long-term internal strife and the institutionalization of structural discrimination or apartheid.\n\nIn ethnocratic states the government is typically representative of a particular ethnic group holding a number of posts disproportionately large to the percentage of the total population. The dominant ethnic group (or groups) represents and use them to advance the position of their particular ethnic group(s) to the detriment of others.\n\nOther ethnic groups are systematically discriminated against by the state and may face repression or violations of their human rights at the hands of state organs. Ethnocracy can also be a political regime which is instituted on the basis of qualified rights to citizenship, and with ethnic affiliation (defined in terms of race, descent, religion, or language) as the distinguishing principle. Generally, the raison d'être of an ethnocratic government is to secure the most important instruments of state power in the hands of a specific ethnic collectivity. All other considerations concerning the distribution of power are ultimately subordinated to this basic intention.\n\nEthnocracies are characterized by their control system – the legal, institutional, and physical instruments of power deemed necessary to secure ethnic dominance. The degree of system discrimination will tend to vary greatly from case to case and from situation to situation. If the dominant group (whose interests the system is meant to serve and whose identity it is meant to represent) constitutes a small minority (typically 20% or less) of the population within the state territory, substantial degrees of institutionalized suppression will probably be necessary to sustain its control.\n\nIn October 2012, Lise Morjé Howard introduced the terms \"mono-ethnocracy\" and \"poly-ethnocracy\". Mono-ethnocracy is a type of regime where one ethnic group dominates, which conforms with the traditional understanding of ethnocracy. Poly-ethnocracy is a type of regime where more than one ethnic group governs the state. Both mono- and poly-ethnocracy are types of ethnocracy. Ethnocracy is founded on the assumptions that ethnic groups are primordial, ethnicity is the basis of political identity, and citizens rarely share multiple ethnic identities.\n\nLise Morjé Howard has labeled Belgium as both a poly-ethnocracy and a democracy. Citizens in Belgium exercise political rights found in democracies, such as voting and free speech. However, Belgian politics is increasingly defined by ethnic divisions between the Flemish and Francophone. For example, all the major political parties are formed around either a Flemish or Francophone identity. Furthermore, bilingual education has disappeared from most Francophone schools.\n\nIsrael has been labeled an ethnocracy by scholars such as: Alexander Kedar, Shlomo Sand, Oren Yiftachel, Asaad Ghanem, Haim Yakobi, Nur Masalha and Hannah Naveh.\n\nHowever, scholars such as Gershon Shafir, Yoav Peled and Sammy Smooha prefer the term ethnic democracy to describe Israel, a term which is intended to represent a \"middle ground\" between an ethnocracy and a liberal democracy. Smooha in particular argues that ethnocracy, allowing a privileged status to a dominant ethnic majority while ensuring that all individuals have equal rights, is defensible. His opponents reply that in so far as Israel contravenes equality in practice, the term 'democratic' in his equation is flawed.\n\nThere is a spectrum of opinion among authors as to the classification of Latvia and Estonia, spanning from Liberal or Civic Democracy through Ethnic democracy to Ethnocracy. Will Kymlicka regards Estonia as a democracy, stressing the peculiar status of Russian-speakers, stemming from being at once partly transients, partly immigrants and partly natives.\n\nBritish researcher Neil Melvin concludes that Estonia is moving towards a genuinely pluralist democratic society through its liberalization of citizenship and actively drawing of leaders of the Russian settler communities into the political process. James Hughes, in the United Nations Development Programme's \"Development and Transition\", contends Latvia and Estonia are cases of 'ethnic democracy' where the state has been captured by the titular ethnic group and then used to promote 'nationalising' policies and alleged discrimination against Russophone minorities. (\"Development and Transition\" has also published papers disputing Hughes' contentions.) Israeli researchers Oren Yiftachel and As'ad Ghanem consider Estonia as an ethnocracy. Israeli sociologist Sammy Smooha, of the University of Haifa, disagrees with Yiftachel, contending that the ethnocratic model developed by Yiftachel does not fit the case of Latvia and Estonia; it is not a settler society as its core ethnic group is indigenous, nor did it expand territorially or have a diaspora intervening in its internal affairs as in the case of Israel for which Yiftachel originally developed his model.\n\nNorthern Ireland has been described as an ethnocracy by numerous scholars. Wendy Pullan describes gerrymandering of electoral districts to ensure Unionist domination, and informal policies that led to the police force being overwhelmingly Protestant, as features of the Unionist ethnocracy. Other elements included discriminatory housing and policies designed to encourage Catholic emigration. Ian Shuttleworth, Myles Gould and Paul Barr agree that the systematic bias against Catholics and Irish nationalists fit the criteria for describing Northern Ireland as an ethnocracy from the time of the partition of Ireland until at least 1972, but argue that after the suspension of the Stormont Parliament, and even more so after the Good Friday Agreement in 1998, ethnocracy was weakened, and that Northern Ireland cannot be plausibly described as an ethnocracy today.\n\nEthnocracy indicates a specific principle of power-distribution in a society. In his book \"Power-Sharing in South Africa\", Arend Lijphart classifies contemporary constitutional proposals for a solution to the conflict in South Africa into four categories:\n\n\nLijphart argues strongly in favour of the consociational model and his categories illustrates that, on the constitutional level, state power can be distributed along two dimensions: legal-institutional and territorial.\nAlong the legal-institutional dimension we can distinguish between singularism (power centralised according to membership in a specific group), pluralism (power-distribution among defined groups according to relative numerical strength), and universalism (power-distribution without any group-specific qualifications). The three main alternatives on the territorial dimension are the unitary state, \"intermediate restructuring\" (within one formal sovereignty), and partition (creating separate political entities). Ethnocracy indicates a specific principle of power-distribution in a society.\n\nTurkey has been described as an ethnocracy by Bilge Azgin. Azgin points to government policies whose goals are the \"exclusion, marginalization, or assimilation\" of minority groups that are non-Turkish as the defining elements of Turkish ethnocracy. As'ad Ghanem also considers Turkey as an ethnocracy. Jack Fong describes Turkey's policy of referring to its Kurdish minority as \"mountain Turks\" and to its refusal to acknowledge any separate Kurdish identity as elements of the Turkish ethnocracy.\n\nUganda under dictator Idi Amin Dada has also been described as an ethnocracy favouring certain indigenous groups over others, as well as for the ethnic cleansing of Indians in Uganda by Amin.\n\n"}
{"id": "957588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957588", "title": "Family First Party", "text": "Family First Party\n\nThe Family First Party was a conservative political party in Australia, in existence from 2002 to 2017. It was founded in South Australia and enjoyed its greatest popularity in that state.\n\nFamily First had three candidates elected to the Senate during its existence—Steve Fielding (2005–2011), Bob Day (2014–2016), and Lucy Gichuhi (2017; elected on a countback following Day being declared ineligible). At state level, the party won a seat in the South Australian Legislative Council across four consecutive state elections (2002, 2006, 2010, and 2014). It also briefly had representatives in the New South Wales Legislative Council and Western Australian Legislative Council, as a result of defections from other parties.\n\nThe party was generally considered to be part of the Christian right. Though it had no formal affiliation with any particular religious organisation, Family First was strongly linked to the Pentecostal church in South Australia, and nationally from smaller Christian denominations. Family First in South Australia was viewed as an infusion of ex-Liberals via Robert Brokenshire and Bob Day. Originally advocating a moral and family values agenda, Day, who would become Family First's major donor, later reoriented Family First to begin to emphasise issues such as industrial relations reform, free speech and smaller government, which brought Family First closer to Cory Bernardi's Australian Conservatives. Family First and their two state incumbents merged in to Bernardi's Conservatives in April 2017.\n\nThe party was founded in South Australia in time to contest the 2002 state election, when former Assemblies of God pastor Andrew Evans became its first elected member, winning a seat in the South Australian Legislative Council. A second party member, pharmaceutical executive Dennis Hood, was elected to the Legislative Council at the 2006 state election. Robert Brokenshire replaced Andrew Evans following the latter's retirement in 2008.\n\nIn the October 2004 federal election, Family First contested seats all over Australia, generally exchanging preferences with Liberal candidates, although in some seats it exchanged preferences with the Australian Labor Party. At that election the party was successful in having Steve Fielding elected as a Senator for Victoria. Along with independent Nick Xenophon and the five Australian Greens, Fielding shared the balance of power in the Senate from July 2008 to July 2011. He was defeated in the 2010 federal election.\n\nIn June 2008, sitting MP and former Liberal Party member, Dan Sullivan, joined the Western Australia State Branch of Family First as an executive member. When three former One Nation MPs attended the public launch of the Branch, it fuelled media speculation that they might try to influence the West Australian branch.\n\nDuring the 2009/10 financial year, party chairman Bob Day made two loans totalling $405,000 to Family First. After gaining 4 per cent of the vote in several lower house seats in the 2010 federal election, the party also received around $400,000 in Commonwealth election funding.\n\nFamily First returned to the Australian Senate at the 2013 federal election, when Bob Day was elected as a Senator for South Australia. He was re-elected at the 2016 double dissolution election. Only a few months later, his family-owned building company, Home Australia Group, ran into financial difficulties and was wound up. Day announced immediately that he would resign from the senate as a consequence, however he did not resign instantly, allowing time for the party to develop a process for selecting a replacement. He resigned on 1 November 2016 creating a vacancy in the senate. In April 2017 the high court ruled that he was invalidly elected in July 2016 and had been ineligible to sit in the senate since February 2016.\n\nThe vacancy created by Day's resignation was filled by another Family First senate candidate, Lucy Gichuhi. Gichuhi was declared by the court of disputed returns on 13 April 2017 to be elected instead of Day, after a special recount of South Australian senate votes.\n\nOn 26 April 2017, a merger between the Australian Conservatives and the Family First Party was announced, with Family First to be absorbed into the Conservatives. Newly appointed Family First senator Lucy Gichuhi did not join the Conservatives, and became an independent senator when the Family First Party was disbanded. The party formally relinquished its registration with the Australian Electoral Commission on 30 August 2017.\n\nPsephologist Antony Green suggested the merger could in part be attributed to the abolition of group voting tickets, which makes it more difficult for like-minded parties to swap preferences without a certain amount of \"leakage\" to other parties.\n\nAlthough officially eschewing religious labels, many of its candidates and members were from conservative Christian backgrounds. Family First co-founder Pastor Andrew Evans was the General Superintendent of the Assemblies of God in Australia for twenty years. In the 2002 South Australian election and the 2004 federal election, a number of Family First candidates were church members. In New South Wales, 11 of their 23 candidates for the 2004 federal election were from an Assemblies of God church, the Hawkesbury Church in Windsor.\n\nSouth Australian Family First Member of the Legislative Council Dennis Hood, the party's state parliamentary leader, is a member of the Rostrevor Baptist Church. When \"Sunday Mail\" columnist Peter Goers stated that Hood was an anti-evolution Creationist, Hood did not deny this in his response, while he did attempt to set the record straight on issues of policy.\n\nFamily First's preferencing agreement with the Coalition in the 2004 federal election led Barnaby Joyce, the National senate candidate for Queensland, to publicly slam the party the day before the election, calling them \"the lunatic Right\", and stating that \"these are not the sort of people you do preference deals with\". Joyce's comments came in response to a pamphlet published by one of the party's Victorian Senate candidates, Danny Nalliah who in his capacity as a church pastor had criticised other religions and homosexuality.\n\nIn September 2004, party leader Andrea Mason said that Family First is not a Christian party and Family First Federal Secretary Dr Matt Burnet issued a press release stating:\n\nThe party is not a church party or an Assembly of God party, nor is it funded by AOG churches. It does see itself as socially conservative, with Family Values based on Christian ethics. Like any mainstream party we do not have on record the religious affiliations of any of our members. The Board of Reference in South Australia includes business-people, members of the medical profession, as well as ministers and people from Catholic, Baptist, Lutheran, Uniting and other church groups. The rapid national growth of the party leading into this election and the late decision to contest in all seats possible, has meant that in some states there are candidates, with strong family values, who have been introduced to the party through the personal relationships they have from their involvement in community/church networks.\n\nA 60-minute documentary was made for the ABC-TV Compass program in 2005 and called \"Family First – A Federal Crusade\". It was produced by Dr Bruce Redman from The University of Queensland.\n\nBy August 2010, the party maintained its non-denominational stance and affirmed its affinity towards Christianity in stating \"Family First in 2010 is independent of any church or denomination...like so many other Australian institutions, at Family First our Christian\nheritage is something we are both proud of and grateful for.\"\n\nThe party agreed to share House of Representatives preferences with the Liberal–National Coalition at the 2004 election (with some exceptions discussed below).\n\nFamily First picked up 1.76 percent of the vote nationally. Steve Fielding, the lead candidate in Victoria, was successful in picking up the last Senate seat. Although he received a primary vote of only 1.88 percent (56,376 votes), he achieved the 14.3 percent quota required by a run of preferences including those from the Australian Labor Party. The typically apolitical psephologist Malcolm Mackerras stated \"The outlandish result occurred in Victoria in 2004 where the Family First party was able to gather tickets from just about everywhere... this is a fluke. And I’ve always referred to Senator Steve Fielding as the Fluke Senator\".\n\nThe party also came close to picking up other Senate seats in Tasmania (largely due to preferences from surplus Liberal votes) and in South Australia where the then party leader Andrea Mason narrowly missed out (polling 3.98 percent and receiving Liberal preferences).\n\nFamily First contested the 2007 federal election, in particular seeking to increase its Senate representation. Nationwide, the party received 1.62 percent of the primary vote in the Senate, and 1.99 percent in the House of Representatives, both down slightly on the 2004 result. In Victoria however, both the lower and upper house vote increased by 0.64 percent, to 2.52 and 3.02 percent respectively. No Family First candidates were elected. Sitting Senator Steve Fielding's term did not expire until 2011.\n\nBefore the 2007 federal election, Fred Nile criticized Family First for giving preferences (in some states) to the Liberty and Democracy Party, a libertarian political party that as one of its policies wants to legalize recreational drug use, stating \"They gave their preferences to the enemy, the anti-Christian party.\" This was suggested as a reason for their poor election result. Fred Nile's own Christian Democratic Party had also preferenced the Liberty and Democracy Party before any other major party in the Senate.\n\nIn 2008, some newspapers claimed that Fielding wanted to \"relaunch himself as a mainstream political player, beyond Family First's ultra-conservative evangelical Christian support base.\" The reports indicated that Fielding had tried to recruit Tim Costello and others around the beginning of 2008 with a view to forming a new party, but had failed to convince them. The revelations came after Fielding changed his position on abortion, after being rebuffed by his party for taking a softer approach. Fielding denied the claims.\n\nAt the 2010 federal election, Family First contested the Senate in all states, but were not successful, with the national vote remaining at around two percent. Fielding's term ended on 30 June 2011, after which the Family First Party no longer had federal parliamentary representation.\n\nThe Queensland Family First Senate candidate Wendy Francis created controversy when she compared allowing same-sex marriage to the stolen generations and to \"legalising child abuse\".\n\nBob Day ran as a Family First Party South Australia Senate candidate at the 2013 federal election and was successful. The South Australian Senate Family First vote was 3.8 percent (down 0.3 percent), getting to the 14.3 percent quota through Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance from 19 group voting ticket party preferences: Australian Independents Party, Australian Stable Population Party, Liberal Democratic Party, Smokers' Rights Party, No Carbon Tax Climate Sceptics, Building Australia Party, Rise Up Australia Party, Katter's Australian Party, One Nation, Australian Fishing and Lifestyle Party, Australian Christians, Shooters and Fishers, Australian Motoring Enthusiast Party, Democratic Labour Party, Animal Justice Party, Australian Greens, Palmer United Party, HEMP Party, Australian Labor Party. The nationwide Family First Senate vote was 1.1 percent (down 1.0 percent). Day assumed his seat on 1 July 2014.\n\nAs Family First's sole incumbent, Bob Day was unexpectedly successful at the 2016 federal election, despite having unsuccessfully mounted a High Court challenge against newly implemented Senate voting reforms which included the removal of group voting tickets, a feature which was crucial to the election of Day at the previous election. Though the South Australian Senate Family First vote was reduced to just 2.9 percent (down 0.9 percent), as the election was a double dissolution, the quota to be elected was halved. Day got to the 7.7 percent quota largely from Liberal preferences when the Liberal's 5th candidate Sean Edwards was eliminated from the count, largely due to the fact the Liberal how-to-vote card recommended Liberal voters to preference Family First. Electing only six Senators per state at a non-double dissolution election, the 12th and last spot in South Australia at this election came down to a race between Day and Labor's 4th candidate Anne McEwen. McEwen solidly led Day for the overwhelming majority of the count, until count 445 of a total 457. However upon Edwards and then One Nation candidate Steven Burgess being eliminated at count 445 and 455 respectively, leaving only McEwen and Day remaining, Day had collected enough preferences to overtake and narrowly defeat McEwen − by just a couple of thousand preference votes. The nationwide Family First Senate vote was 1.4 percent (up 0.3 percent). Elected to the 12th and final South Australian Senate spot, he was allocated a three-year term. Due to the failure of his home construction business, Day resigned from the Senate on 1 November 2016 and a replacement was expected to be selected in the following two to three weeks. In April 2017, the High Court found that he was invalidly elected to the senate at the 2016 election because the leasing arrangements for his electoral office had breached section 44 of the Constitution making him ineligible for the Senate, leading to a special recount of South Australian senate ballots to find a replacement.\n\nOn 13 April 2017 Lucy Gichuhi was declared as the new South Australian senator in place of Bob Day, following a recount of ballots cast at the 2016 federal election. Her appointment was challenged by the Australian Labor Party but the High Court of Australia rejected the challenge as to whether she has renounced her Kenyan citizenship or retained a dual Kenyan and Australian citizenship.\n\nFollowing the resignation of Mark Latham and their acquisition of a Senate seat in 2004, Family First contested the 2005 Werriwa by-election and in the absence of a Liberal candidate received 2,890 first preference votes. They had not contested Werriwa in 2004.\n\nAs a result of their relatively poor form in the 2007 election, Family First did not contest the 2008 Gippsland by-election, but in a later by-election for the seat of Mayo they won 11.40 percent of the vote but only ran fourth in the absence of a Labor candidate, a total that was only four percent above their vote in the 2007 general election.\n\nFamily First did not stand a candidate in any of the 2008 Lyne, 2009 Bradfield or 2009 Higgins by-elections.\n\nThe first election Family First contested was the 2002 South Australian Election. Dr Andrew Evans received a primary vote of 4.02 percent which, along with preferences from other parties, was sufficient to obtain the 8.3 percent quota and get elected to one of the 11 seats available in the South Australian Legislative Council.\n\nIn the 2005 Western Australian election, Family First polled 21,701 votes in the Legislative Council where it contested 34 candidates compared to 57 candidates in major parties. \nIn the 2006 South Australian election, Family First's vote increased to 4.98 percent in the Legislative Council, and a second Member of the Legislative Council was elected – former pharmaceutical executive Dennis Hood. In several rural and outer metropolitan seats, Family First's vote approached 10 percent – and in the seat of Kavel, Tom Playford, a descendent of former Premier Tom Playford, achieved a vote of 15.7 percent. In the Legislative Council, Family First shares the balance of power with the other minor parties and independents.\n\nIn the 2006 Queensland state election, Family First received a primary vote of 7 percent in contested seats (many seats were not contested), with a high of 14.5 percent and several other seats posting results of 10 percent. Queensland does not have an Upper House, and these results were insufficient for any candidates to be elected.\n\nIn the 2006 Victorian state election, Family First's vote increased from 1.9 percent to 4.3 percent of first preferences, however no candidates were elected.\n\nIn the 2012 Queensland state election the party unsuccessfully contested 38 seats.\n\nIn the 2017 Western Australian election, Family First fielded 2 candidates in each of the six Legislative Council regions, and three candidates for Legislative Assembly seats. Voting for the legislative council uses group voting tickets. Family First has participated with four other parties in a set of preference deals orchestrated by Glenn Druery. The other parties are Fluoride Free WA, Liberal Democrats, Flux the System and the Daylight Saving Party. The deals are arranged so that the ticket votes for these five parties roll up to a different party in each region. The system collects votes so that Family First's best chance is in North Metropolitan region.\n\nThe party has benefited from a series of high-profile defections.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFamily First was incorporated as a company limited by guarantee and managed by an Executive Committee comprising the Board of Directors. Decision making was tightly held within the executive group, including the capacity to elect new members to the executive, determine party policy and ratify candidate pre-selection.\n\nA National Conference occurred every two years, with delegates from state party licensees. Federal and State branches held Annual General Meetings that were open to all members.\n\nDavid Leyonhjelm of the Liberal Democratic Party and Day announced their intention to vote as a bloc in the Senate on economic issues, but separately on social issues.\n\nFamily First and the Australian Greens were often at odds, with Family First often referring to the Greens as \"extreme\" in their media statements. The two parties were in competition for Senate preferences, particularly from the Labor Party, and were ideologically opposed on many issues. In the 2006 Victorian election, Family First's limited television advertising campaign specifically singled out the Greens for criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "834898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=834898", "title": "Freedom to Marry", "text": "Freedom to Marry\n\nFreedom to Marry was the national bipartisan organization dedicated to winning marriage for same-sex couples in the United States. Freedom to Marry was founded in New York City in 2003 by Evan Wolfson. Wolfson served as president of the organization through the June 2015 victory at the Supreme Court, until the organization's official closing in February 2016.\n\nFreedom to Marry drove the national strategy - what Freedom to Marry called the “Roadmap to Victory” - that led to the nationwide victory. The strategy aimed at a Supreme Court win bringing the country to national resolution, once advocates had succeeded in creating the climate for the court by working on three tracks: winning marriage in a critical mass of states, growing national majority support for marriage, and ending marriage discrimination by the federal government.\n\nIn 1983, at a time when same-sex couples had no country- or state-level recognition anywhere in the world, Evan Wolfson wrote his Harvard Law School thesis on the constitutional right to marriage for same-sex couples. He believed that by claiming the vocabulary of marriage, same-sex couples could transform the country's understanding of who gay people were and, as a result, why exclusion and discrimination are wrong. The thesis outlined the arguments that ultimately became a national conversation and a legal and political set of battles that led to a transformation of public understanding and a triumph in the Supreme Court.\n\nWolfson went on to serve full-time as the Marriage Director of Lambda Legal throughout the 1990s. He worked as co-counsel in Hawaii’s landmark Baehr case, which launched the ongoing international freedom to marry movement. The Hawaii case foreshadowed the pattern ahead: a legal breakthrough followed by political defeat, because of insufficient progress in changing hearts and minds. When, in 2000, Wolfson was approached by leaders of the Evelyn & Walter Haas Jr. Fund, he successfully proposed that the foundation make a $2.5 million challenge grant investment in 2001 – then the largest foundation award in the history of the LGBT movement from a highly respected, non-LGBT foundation – to help Wolfson build a new campaign to win marriage. The campaign was officially launched in 2003, the birth of Freedom to Marry.\n\nWolfson knew from studying the history of civil rights movements that marriage for same-sex couples would become the law of the land only when one of the country's two national actors, Congress or the U.S. Supreme Court, brought national resolution to the cause. But a smart, strategic campaign was integral to creating the climate necessary to get to that point and to avoid seeing gains snatched away.\n\nAs in Hawaii (and even the earliest rounds of the marriage battle in the 1970s), litigation was central – but it wasn't enough. Wolfson called for the creation of a campaign that reflected what he called the \"4 multi's\": it would be multi-year (not expected to win overnight), multi-state (not watching as victories were picked off one by one), multi-partner (no one organization could do it all), and multi-methodology (it would combine litigation, lobbying, public education, organization, direct action, fund-raising, and even, eventually, electoral). Wolfson knew that marriage advocates didn't have to win every state, but they had to win enough states – and not every American had to be persuaded to support the freedom to marry, but enough Americans needed to be supportive before elected officials and judges, including the justices of the Supreme Court, would do the right thing.\n\nOver two decades, the marriage movement built from only 27% support among the American people in 1993 to 63% in 2015; and from 0 states issuing marriage licenses in 2002 to 37 states and the District of Columbia in 2015, when the victories created the powerful momentum and energy that enabled the Supreme Court Justices to finish the job and strike down marriage discrimination once and for all.\n\nBeginning in 2010, Freedom to Marry created and coordinated a research collaborative, dubbed the Marriage Research Consortium, drawing together state and national partners such as the Movement Advancement Project, Basic Rights Oregon, and Third Way to \"crack the code\" on how to reach the next segment of the American public who were not yet part of the majority the campaign had achieved. Through cutting-edge research, focus groups, collaboration with the partners, and compilation of the experience gained in multiple campaigns (and losses), Freedom to Marry pioneered a new messaging playbook for the marriage movement called \"Why Marriage Matters\". The playbook shifted from a previous focus on the rights and benefits that come with marriage towards values-based frames of love, commitment, freedom, family, and the Golden Rule. These were the messages that caused \"middle\" voters – those who Wolfson called the \"reachable but not yet reached\"—to move towards support, and helped contribute to the historic first victories for marriage at the ballot in 2012, to winning a majority of Americans in support of marriage, and to the movement's ultimate victory in 2015.\n\nThrough an aggressive and sophisticated media strategy, Freedom to Marry's \"Press Room\" drove the national narrative around marriage and combated marriage opponents' fear-based messaging. Freedom to Marry funded, directed, and created ads showcasing unexpected surrogates and stories of Americans' journeys to supporting marriage. Compelling messengers included veterans, Republicans, and family members of same-sex couples, and helped make the case in the court of public opinion that all of America is ready for the freedom to marry.\n\nFreedom to Marry launched its Digital Action Center to leverage the national organization's successful online work and apply it across more than two dozen state digital campaigns. Freedom to Marry's award-winning digital team developed cutting edge online tools and innovative content strategies to engage marriage supporters in effective action, advance the organization's message online, raise funds, and tell the stories of people directly affected by marriage discrimination. In effect, Freedom to Marry was the digital \"back end\" of virtually all the key state campaigns in the last several years of the push. Freedom to Marry won numerous honors for its pioneering use of video and social work for advocacy such as the Silver 2015 Pollie Award.\n\nFreedom to Marry's work in the states almost always consisted of quickly and efficiently establishing state campaign coalitions, promoting teamwork, providing and enhancing expertise and a playbook of effective tactics, and generating needed funding. Freedom to Marry played a role in nearly every legislative and ballot win, and worked closely with its partners to create the climate for victory in states with pending litigation, enlisting expertise, resources, and infrastructure to support local advocates.\n\n\"Why Marriage Matters\" was Freedom to Marry's national public education campaign. The campaign was launched on February 14, 2011 The Why Marriage Matters project includes videos and stories from real people and real facts about why marriage matters, and was a critical part of long-term efforts in the states.\n\nIn March 2011, Freedom to Marry launched an open letter calling on Barack Obama to support marriage for same-sex couples. Over 122,000 people signed their names to the letter, including numerous celebrities, civic leaders, and entrepreneurs. The campaign ended on May 9, 2012, when President Obama became the first sitting president of the United States to say he supports marriage for same-sex couples.\n\nIn February 2012, Freedom to Marry also launched a campaign to persuade the Democratic Party to include marriage for same-sex couples as a plank in the party platform at the 2012 Democratic National Convention. The campaign contributed to outspoken support from 22 Democratic Senators, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Chair of the Democratic National Convention Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, Caroline Kennedy and nine other co-chairs of President Obama's reelection campaign, and more than 40,000 Americans who added their names to Freedom to Marry's online petition.\n\nOn July 29, the Democratic Party Platform Drafting Committee included a freedom to marry plank in the draft of the platform. The draft was ratified at the Democratic National Convention in September, making the Democratic Party the first major U.S. political party to officially support marriage for same-sex couples in the national party platform.\n\nIn January 2012, Freedom to Marry launched the \"Mayors for the Freedom to Marry\" campaign (also known as \"Mayors for Marriage\"), encouraging mayors of cities throughout the United States to endorse marriage equality for their localities. Over 500 mayors from nearly all 50 states had joined the campaign by the time marriage was won in 2015. On January 13, 2012, San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, and West Sacramento Mayor Christopher Cabaldon published a column, Gay marriage a question of justice, in USA Today.\n\nAs the largest funder of the marriage movement, Freedom to Marry played a pivotal role in attracting broad foundation and individual donors. Donors spanned the political spectrum, from hedge fund giant Paul Singer, the founder and CEO of Elliott Management and a major Republican bundler, to acclaimed philanthropists Jon Stryker and Tim Gill, major supporters of Democratic candidates.\n\nFor example, in March 2012, Freedom to Marry launched the \"Win More States Fund,\" which identified battleground states where funding was most critically needed. The 2012 states included New Hampshire, Maine, Washington, Minnesota, New Jersey, and later Maryland. The goal was to raise at least $3 million to funnel into these state campaigns. The organization met this initial goal in early August 2012 and continued fundraising through the rest of the year, becoming the largest out-of-state funder in three of the state ballot-measure victories. All six of the states in the Win More States Fund won in 2012 - with Maine, Maryland, and Washington passing marriage for the first time at the ballot in the November 2012 election. Minnesota became the first state to block an anti-marriage amendment at the ballot (and passed a proactive marriage bill in the next legislative session). New Hampshire successfully blocked a measure to repeal marriage, and New Jersey passed marriage in the state legislature.\n\nIn February 2013, Freedom to Marry launched the second round of states for the Win More States Fund with a goal of raising and investing $2 million into campaigns to win marriage in Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Minnesota, New Jersey and Rhode Island.\n\nIn total, Freedom to Marry raised over $60 million to win marriage nationwide. This money was invested into state, national, and federal programs, and directly into campaigns on the ground.\n\nYoung Conservatives for the Freedom to Marry is a campaign to highlight and build support for the freedom to marry among young conservatives across America. They represent young conservatives across the country that agree all Americans should be able to share in the freedom to marry. Notable members of Young Conservatives Leadership Committee include S.E. Cupp, Abby Huntsman, and Meghan McCain. The effort is managed by conservative activist Tyler Deaton.\n\nOn June 4, 2014 the campaign launched a national effort to \"reform the RNC platform.\" The \"reform the platform\" campaign launched in New Hampshire, consisting of a plan focused on the presidential primary states and \"leading up to the Republican National Convention in 2016.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "538717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538717", "title": "General Convention of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America", "text": "General Convention of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America\n\nThe General Convention is the primary governing and legislative body of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America. With the exception of the Bible, the Book of Common Prayer, and the Constitution and Canons, it is the ultimate authority in the Episcopal Church, being the bureaucratic facility through which the collegial function of the episcopate is exercised. General Convention comprises two houses: the House of Deputies and the House of Bishops. It meets regularly once every three years; however, the House of Bishops meets regularly in between sessions of General Convention. The Bishops have the right to call special meetings of General Convention.\n\nAll diocesan, coadjutor, suffragan, and assistant bishops of the Episcopal Church, whether active or retired, have seat and vote in the House of Bishops. Each diocese of the Episcopal Church, as well as the Navajoland Area Mission and the Convocation of Episcopal Churches in Europe, are entitled to representation in the House of Deputies by four clergy deputies, either presbyters or deacons, canonically resident in the diocese and four lay deputies who are confirmed communicants in good standing. The Episcopal Church of Liberia is entitled to representation in the House of Deputies by two clergy deputies and two lay deputies, all with seat and voice but no vote. The Official Youth Presence is a group of eighteen high school youth, two from each province. They also have seat and voice but no vote. Resolutions must pass both houses in order to take effect.\n\nThe convention is divided into committees which consider resolutions. Resolutions arise from four different sources: 1) \"A\" resolutions from interim bodies whose work is collected in what is referred to as the \"Blue Book\" 2) \"B\" resolutions which come from Bishops 3) \"C\" resolutions which come from diocesan conventions and 4) \"D\" resolutions which originate from Deputies. Each properly submitted resolution is referred to a convention committee which makes its recommendation to the House. When one house has acted on the resolution it is sent to the other house for consideration.\n\nThe presiding officer of the House of Bishops is the Presiding Bishop. Both houses take part in the selection of a new Presiding Bishop. The members of the Joint Nominating Committee for the Election of the Presiding Bishop are elected from both houses. The House of Deputies elects one clerical and one lay delegate from each province, and the House of Bishops elects one bishop from every province to sit on the joint committee. When a new Presiding Bishop is to be elected, the houses meet together in a joint session, and the nominating committee nominates at least three bishops. During the joint session, any deputy or bishop can nominate additional candidates. The House of Bishops elects the Presiding Bishop from among all nominees. The results of the election are reported to the House of Deputies, which then votes to confirm or not to confirm the election.\n\nThe presiding officers of the House of Deputies are the president and vice president.\n\nA treasurer is elected by the two houses at every regular meeting of General Convention. The treasurer formulates the budget of the Episcopal Church, receives and disburses all money collected under the authority of the convention, and with the approval of the Presiding Bishop invests surplus funds. If the office of treasurer becomes vacant, the Presiding Bishop and the President of the House of Deputies appoints a treasurer until a new election is held. The treasurer of the General Convention and the Executive Council is Kurt Barnes.\n\nAt each regular meeting of General Convention, the secretary of the House of Deputies is by concurrent action of both houses made the secretary of the General Convention. The secretary oversees the publishing of the Journal of the General Convention. In addition, the secretary also notifies the bishops and secretaries of every diocese to actions of General Convention, especially alterations to the \"Book of Common Prayer\" and the constitution of the Episcopal Church. If the offices of president and vice president become vacant during the triennium, the secretary performs the duties of president until the next meeting of General Convention. The Secretary is also the corporate secretary of the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society, the corporate body of the Episcopal Church, and one of the four senior officers of the church. The Rev. Canon Dr. Michael Barlowe is the Secretary of the House of Deputies, having been appointed upon the retirement of his predecessor, the Rev. Dr. Gregory Straub in 2013.\n\nDr. Barlowe is also the Executive Officer of the General Convention, a position filled by joint appointment of the Presiding Bishop and the President of the House of Deputies. The Executive Officer \"oversees all aspects of the work of Church governance, from site selection through supervision and funding of the work mandated by the convention\". He supervises the secretary, treasurer, and manager of the General Convention and heads the executive office of the General Convention which coordinates the work of the committees, commissions, boards, and agencies (CCAB's).\n\nInterim bodies, meeting in between sessions of General Convention, include the Executive Council and various standing commissions which study and draft policy proposals for consideration and report back to General Convention. Each standing commission consists of three bishops, three priests or deacons, and six laypersons. Priests, deacons, and lay persons are not required to be deputies. Bishops are appointed by the Presiding Bishop while the other clergy and laypersons are appointed by the president of the House of Deputies. Members are appointed to rotating terms so that the term for half of the members expires at the conclusion of each regular meeting of the General Convention. The standing commissions are:\n\nThe Presiding Bishop and the President of the House of Deputies are ex officio members of all commissions and can appoint personal representatives to attend commission meetings without the right to vote. They jointly appoint Executive Council members as liaison persons to provide communication between the council and each commission. These liaison persons are not commission members and cannot vote; though, they do have voice. The Presiding Bishop also appoints a staff member to assist each commission in its work.\n\nEither house may refer matters to a commission, but one house cannot instruct a commission to take any action without the consent of the other house.\n\nThe American Revolution was very disruptive to the Episcopal churches in the United States. There had been no Anglican dioceses or bishops in the 13 colonies before the Revolution, thus when the American congregations were separated from the Church of England, \"the chain which held them together [was] broken\". In 1782, William White, the father of the Episcopal Church, wrote in his pamphlet \"The Case of the Episcopal Churches in the United States Considered\", \"it would seem, that their future continuance can be provided for only by voluntary associations for union and good government\". In America, the central unit of the church would be the congregation, rather than the diocese. White, a disciple of John Locke, believed that the church, like the state, should be a democracy. He proposed that congregations in each state should unite to form an annual convention (as opposed to a \"convocation\" or \"synod\", terms which denote a body called together by a bishop) of clergy and lay representatives of the congregations. In White's plan, the state conventions would send representatives to three provincial conventions which would elect representatives to the General Convention every three years.\n\nThe constitution written in 1789 was very similar to White's plan, except that state conventions would elect representatives directly to the General Convention. Bishops would be democratically elected and responsible to the General Convention and their respective state (later diocesan) conventions. Bishops would be \"servants of the Church and not its lords\". It is often said that the Constitutions of the United States and the Episcopal Church were written by the same people. While this is not true, both were written around the same time in Philadelphia by people who knew each other and who sought to \"replace hierarchical rule with egalitarian, democratic government\".\n\nThe House of Deputies is the older of the two houses having been formed in 1785. William White was the first President of the House of Deputies. The House of Bishops was formed in 1789 to win the support of those who wanted a greater role for bishops. The House of Deputies had the advantage because with an 80 percent majority it could override a veto of the House of Bishops until 1808 when both houses were given absolute vetos. White became the first Bishop of Pennsylvania and the first Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17685145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17685145", "title": "Genoa Social Forum", "text": "Genoa Social Forum\n\nThe Genoa Social Forum is a coalition of movements, political parties and societies opposed to capitalist globalisation. It was created in 2000, a year before the scheduled 27th G8 summit in Genoa in 2001, and included several associations - and hundreds of smaller ones - largely but not solely from Italy. Although it made several requests to meet the institutional representatives, as a forerunner of a counter-forum, on June 24, 2001 they were met by police chief Gianni De Gennaro. Its national spokesperson was Vittorio Agnoletto, former MEP for the Communist Refoundation Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "28058195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28058195", "title": "Governance of the National Union of Students (United Kingdom)", "text": "Governance of the National Union of Students (United Kingdom)\n\nThe governance of the National Union of Students, the organisation which is the main confederation of students' unions within the United Kingdom, has recently undergone radical reform. The article explains the background to the reform process and the current system of governance.\n\nDebates over governance reform dominated the National Conference of 2008. Reform proposals were rejected in 2008 in a vote where 692 voted for the proposals and 358 voted against, but a two-thirds majority was required. \"The Guardian\" characterised the reform proposals as 'Blairite'. Critics of the reforms characterised them as an attack on the democratic structure of the organisation. that would lead to a reduction in minority representation.\nSupporters argued that the reform proposals would replace an outdated system of governance and lead to a more innovative corporate structure. Two extraordinary conferences were held to ratify the reform proposals a measure criticised as undemocratic given that there is no requirement for students unions to hold cross-campus elections for extraordinary conferences. The first extraordinary conference was held in Leicester where the reforms passed. The second conference was held in Wolverhampton where 614 delegates at the conference voting in favour of the proposals and 142 voted against them.\n\nThe current President of the National Union of Students is Shakira Martin. The other positions are Vice-President Higher Education, Vice-President Further Education, Vice-President Union Development, Vice-President Welfare and Vice-President Society and Citizenship. Each Vice-President leads a distinct zone within the organizational structure of the NUS.\n\nThe National Executive Council (NEC) is NUS’ interim decision making body between meetings of the union’s National Conference. It comprises elected representatives and officers from each of NUS’ Zones, Student Sections, Liberation Campaigns and Nations as well as 15 individually elected members and the National President.\n\nThe 15 individually elected members are known as the \"Block of 15\"/ The Block of 15 is made up of 15 members five of which are reserved for members of further education institutions.\n†Further education\n\nThere currently exists five policy zones.\n\nEach zone is made up of a committee of elected students.\n\nThe National Union of Students holds an annual conference each year. Any member of a Union affiliated to the National Union of Students can stand to be a delegate.\n\nLiberation campaigns are autonomous and hold their own conferences.\n\nAccording to the NUS the role of the Trustee Board is as follows:\n\n[The] Trustee Board will work to ensure a sound, healthy and legally compliant organisation - allowing an elected Executive Council of students to concentrate on campaigning and representing students with confidence and integrity.\n\nThe Trustee Board is made up of:\n\n\nThe current student trustees are:\n\nElected Trustees for the next term are:\n\nThe Democratic Procedures Committee are a committee elected at NUS national Conference to ensure that the NUS' democratic procedures are followed. The nomination form for election to the Democratic Procedures Committee describes the remit of the committee as thus:\n\n[The] Democratic Procedures Committee are responsible for the democracy of\nNUS - the accessibility of its conference and the fair policy processes of the\nNational Union as a whole. Among other things they are responsible for the motions and amendments\nprocess, the accessibility of the Conference venue for all delegates and the\nadministration of conference procedures during the meeting itself.\n\nThe Democratic Procedures Committee were criticised for their decision to cut the delegation size of some Universities at NUS Conference a move which is seen as reducing the diversity of delegations sent to conference. Supporters of this decision argue that it addresses a long-standing imbalance between delegate sizes for higher education and further education institutions.\n\nMembers are elected to the Democratic Procedures Committee are elected on a two-year term. The current make up is:\n\nNational Union of Students Areas are support organisations, affiliation to which is open to individual students' unions which are usually (but not always) already affiliated members of the UK-wide National Union of Students of the United Kingdom (\"NUS\"). Membership of an Area organisation is optional (determined by the normal democratic process at each students' union) and is paid for by subscription in addition to the cost of affiliation to the national body.\n\nArea organisations meet together to support each other through the \"Areas Political Convention\" (formerly the \"Areas National Convention\"), and are able to attend the National Union's annual conference as non-voting observers. Additionally Area Conveners have sometimes been members of the Executive Committees of the \"special regions\" (Scotland (NUS Scotland), Wales (NUS Wales), and Northern Ireland (NUS-USI).) \n\nThe position of \"Areas\" within the Constitution of the National Union has long been somewhat controversial. They do not feature in all printed editions of the Constitution, but have not been officially dissolved by the decision-making Annual Conference of the national body. They are nominally autonomous or semi-autonomous, but often use some of the same branding and certainly have access to the resources of their regional and national offices.\n\nThe current National Union of Students website has this to say about areas:\nAt one time almost all NUS regions contained several Area organisations; Scotland for example was divided into \"NUS North of Scotland Area\", \"NUS West of Scotland Area\" and \"NUS East of Scotland Area\". In this example, the East of Scotland organisation tended to work very closely with the national (Scottish) organisation due to being based in the same city, Edinburgh. In more remote parts of the country, the Area organisations are intended to form a useful first point of contact and readily accessible person to assist the local student unions.\n\nAreas normally have a \"Convener\" who is generally a current student or one who has just graduated, and will take a year, theoretically (but not always) paid, to work for the Area — known as a \"sabbatical\" in the case of current students, and in this sense following the model of the sabbatical officers of students' unions at individual educational institutions. Occasionally the Convener would serve two or even more years in office. Those Areas able to afford the costs may send their Convener to a training session provided by the National Union. In any event, the regional organisation will normally provide training and support.\n\nBecause of their local perspective and autonomous nature, it is not uncommon for Areas to be involved in conflicts with the national organisation. Conversely, political groupings (and the fulfilling of obvious functions and shared goals) within the bodies sometimes draws them into very close co-operation.\n\nWest Midlands Area National Union of Students (WMANUS) is the oldest of the current National Union of Students Areas and operates as a semi-autonomous organisation of the National Union of Students of the United Kingdom. WMANUS works with affiliated Students' Unions in the West Midlands of England on campaigns, training, union development and other issues of relevance to students in the region. Area organisations are now starting to re-establish themselves across England with the establishment of the South East Area National Union of Student (SEANUS) and the Anglian Union of Students (ANGUS) - with others looking to follow. \n\nWMANUS has two full-time convenors who are supported by a part-time Executive Committee. It holds two Conferences (Spring and Winter) every year to discuss policy, elect its new Executive committee and determine the direction and work of the Area. Its main aims are to represent all students of affiliated Student Union/Associations/Guilds on educational and welfare issues across the West Midlands region. It runs regional wide campaigns as well as specific training events for its Constituent Members (CMs).\n\n"}
{"id": "216193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216193", "title": "Greywater", "text": "Greywater\n\nGreywater (also spelled graywater, grey water and gray water) or sullage is all wastewater generated in households or office buildings from streams without fecal contamination, i.e. all streams except for the wastewater from toilets. Sources of greywater include, sinks, showers, baths, clothes washing machines or dish washers. As greywater contains fewer pathogens than domestic wastewater, it is generally safer to handle and easier to treat and reuse onsite for toilet flushing, landscape or crop irrigation, and other non-potable uses.\n\nThe application of greywater reuse in urban water systems provides substantial benefits for both the water supply subsystem by reducing the demand for fresh clean water as well as the wastewater subsystems by reducing the amount of wastewater required to be conveyed and treated. Treated greywater has many uses, for example toilet flushing or irrigation.\n\nGreywater is all wastewater that is generated in household or office building sources without fecal contamination. Therefore, by definition, greywater does not include the discharge of toilets or highly fecally contaminated wastewater, which is designated sewage or blackwater and contains human waste.\n\nGreywater usually contains some traces of excreta and is therefore not free of pathogens. The excreta comes from washing a person's anal area in the bath and shower, or from the laundry (washing underwear and nappies). The quality of greywater can deteriorate rapidly during storage because it often is warm and contains some nutrients and organic matter (e.g. dead skin cells), as well as pathogens. Stored greywater also leads to odour nuisances for the same reason.\n\nIn households with conventional flush toilets, greywater makes up about 65% of the total wastewater produced by that household. It may be a good source of water for reuse, because there is a close relationship between the production of greywater and the potential demand for toilet flushing water.\n\nMisconnections of pipes can cause greywater tanks to contain a percentage of blackwater.\n\nThe small traces of feces that enter the greywater stream via effluent from the shower, sink, or washing machine do not pose practical hazards under normal conditions, as long as the greywater is used correctly (for example, percolated from a dry well or used correctly in farming irrigation).\n\nThe separate treatment of greywater falls under the concept of source separation which is one principle commonly applied in ecological sanitation approaches. The main advantage of keeping greywater separate from toilet wastewater is that the pathogen load is much reduced and the greywater is therefore easier to treat and reuse.\n\nWhen greywater is mixed with toilet wastewater, it is called sewage or blackwater and should be treated in sewage treatment plants or onsite sewage facility, which often is a septic system. When it is kept separate, it may open up interesting decentralized treatment and reuse options.\n\nGreywater from kitchen sinks contains fats, oils and grease and high loads of organic matter. It should undergo preliminary treatment to remove these substances before discharge into a grey water tank. If this is difficult to apply, it could be directed to the blackwater system or to an existing sewer.\n\nMost greywater is easier to treat and recycle than blackwater (sewage), because of lower levels of contaminants. If collected using a separate plumbing system from blackwater, domestic greywater can be recycled directly within the home, garden or company and used either immediately or processed and stored. If stored, it must be used within a very short time or it will begin to putrefy due to the organic solids in the water. Recycled greywater of this kind is never safe to drink, but a number of treatment steps can be used to provide water for washing or flushing toilets.\n\nThe treatment processes that can be used are in principle the same as those used for sewage treatment, except that they are usually installed on a smaller scale (decentralized level), often at household or building level:\nIn constructed wetlands, the plants use contaminants of greywater, such as food particles, as nutrients in their growth. However, salt and soap residues can be toxic to microbial and plant life alike, but can be absorbed and degraded through constructed wetlands and aquatic plants such as sedges, rushes, and grasses.\n\nThe global water resources are worsening. According to a report from United Nations states that 2.7 billion people will face the problem of water shortage by 2025, which means almost 1/2-1/3 of the total population of the world will be affected by this problem. Reusing the wastewater has become a good way to solve this problem, and wastewater reuse is also called recycled or reclaimed water.\n\nDemand on conventional water supplies and pressure on sewage treatment systems is reduced by the use of greywater. Re-using greywater also reduces the volume of sewage effluent entering watercourses which can be ecologically beneficial. In times of drought, especially in urban areas, greywater use in gardens or toilet systems helps to achieve some of the goals of ecologically sustainable development.\n\nThe potential ecological benefits of greywater recycling include\n\n\nIn the U.S. Southwest and the Middle East where available water supplies are limited, especially in view of a rapidly growing population, a strong imperative exists for adoption of alternative water technologies.\n\nThe potential economic benefits of greywater recycling include\n\n\nGreywater use for irrigation appears to be a safe practice. A 2015 epidemiological study found no additional burden of disease among greywater users irrigating arid regions. The safety of reuse of greywater as potable water has also been studied. A few organic micropollutants including benzene were found in greywater in significant concentrations but most pollutants were in very low concentrations. Faecal contamination, peripheral pathogens (e.g., skin and mucous tissue), and food-derived pathogens are the three major sources of pathogens in greywater.\n\nGreywater reuse in toilet flushing and garden irrigation may produce aerosols. These could transmit legionella disease and bring a potential health risk for people. However, the result of the research shows that the health risk due to reuse of greywater either for garden irrigation or toilet flushing was not significantly higher than the risk associated with using clear water for the same activities.\n\nMost greywater should be assumed to have some blackwater-type components, including pathogens. Greywater should be applied below the surface where possible (e.g., via drip line on top of the soil, under mulch; or in mulch-filled trenches) and not sprayed, as there is a danger of inhaling the water as an aerosol.\n\nIn any greywater system, it is important to avoid toxic materials such as bleaches, bath salts, artificial dyes, chlorine-based cleansers, strong acids/alkali, solvents, and products containing boron, which is toxic to plants at high levels. Most cleaning agents contain sodium salts, which can cause excessive soil alkalinity, inhibit seed germination, and destroy the structure of soils by dispersing clay. Soils watered with greywater systems can be amended with gypsum (calcium sulfate) to reduce pH. Cleaning products containing ammonia are safe to use, as plants can use it to obtain nitrogen. A 2010 study of greywater irrigation found no major health effects on plants, and suggests sodium buildup is largely dependent on the degree to which greywater migrates vertically through the soil.\n\nSome greywater may be applied directly from the sink to the garden or container field, receiving further treatment from soil life and plant roots.\n\nThe use of non-toxic and low-sodium soap and personal care products is recommended to protect vegetation when reusing greywater for irrigation purposes.\n\nRecycled greywater from showers and bathtubs can be used for flushing toilets in most European and Australian jurisdictions and in United States jurisdictions that have adopted the International Plumbing Code.\n\nSuch a system could provide an estimated 30% reduction in water use for the average household. The danger of biological contamination is avoided by using:\n\nGreywater recycling without treatment is used in certain dwellings for applications where potable water is not required (e.g., garden and land irrigation, toilet flushing). It may also be used in dwellings when the greywater (e.g., from rainwater) is already fairly clean to begin with and/or has not been polluted with non-degradable chemicals such as non-natural soaps (thus using natural cleaning products instead). It is not recommended to use water that has been in the greywater filtration system for more than 24 hours as bacteria builds up, affecting the water that is being reused.\n\nDue to the limited treatment technology, the treated greywater still contains some chemicals and bacteria, so some safety issues should be observed when using the treated greywater around the home.\n\nDevices are currently available that capture heat from residential and industrial greywater, through a process called drainwater heat recovery, greywater heat recovery, or hot water heat recycling.\n\nRather than flowing directly into a water heating device, incoming cold water flows first through a heat exchanger where it is pre-warmed by heat from greywater flowing out from such activities as dishwashing, or showering. Typical household devices receiving greywater from a shower can recover up to 60% of the heat that would otherwise go to waste.\n\nGovernment regulation governing domestic greywater use for landscape irrigation (diversion for reuse) is still a developing area and continues to gain wider support as the actual risks and benefits are considered and put into clearer perspective.\n\n\"Greywater\" (by pure legal definition) is considered in some jurisdictions to be \"sewage\" (all wastewater including greywater and toilet waste), but in the U.S. states that adopt the \"International Plumbing Code\", it can be used for subsurface irrigation and for toilet flushing, and in states that adopt the \"Uniform Plumbing Code\", it can be used in underground disposal fields that are akin to shallow sewage disposal fields.\n\nWyoming allows surface and subsurface irrigation and other non-specific use of greywater under a Department of Environmental Quality policy enacted in March 2010. California, Utah, New Mexico and some other states allow true subsurface drip irrigation with greywater. Where greywater is still considered sewage, it is bound by the same regulatory procedures enacted to ensure properly engineered septic tank and effluent disposal systems are installed for long system life and to control spread of disease and pollution. In such regulatory jurisdictions, this has commonly meant domestic greywater diversion for landscape irrigation was either not permitted or was discouraged by expensive and complex sewage system approval requirements. Wider legitimate community greywater diversion for landscape irrigation has subsequently been handicapped and resulted in greywater reuse continuing to still be widely undertaken by householders outside of and in preference to the legal avenues.\n\nHowever, with water conservation becoming a necessity in a growing number of jurisdictions, business, political and community pressure has made regulators seriously reconsider the actual risks against actual benefits.\n\nIt is now recognized and accepted by an increasing number of regulators that the microbiological risks of greywater reuse at the single dwelling level where inhabitants already had intimate knowledge of that greywater are in reality an insignificant risk, when properly managed without the need for onerous approval processes. This is reflected in the New South Wales Government Department of Water and Energy's newly released greywater diversion rules, and the recent passage of greywater legislation in Montana. In the 2009 Legislative Session, the state of Montana passed a bill expanding greywater use into multi-family and commercial buildings. The Department of Environmental Quality has already drafted rules and design guidelines for greywater re-use systems in all these applications. Existing staff would review systems proposed for new subdivisions in conjunction with review of all other wastewater system components.\n\nStrict permit requirements in Austin, Texas, led to issuance of only one residential graywater permit since 2010. A working group formed to streamline the permitting process, and in 2013, the city created new code that has eased the requirements, resulting in four more permits.\n\nIn California, a push has been made in recent years to address greywater in connection with the State's greenhouse gas reduction goals (see AB 32). As a large amount of energy (electricity) is used for pumping, treating and transporting potable water within the state, water conservation has been identified as one of several ways California is seeking to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nIn July 2009, the California Building Standards Commission (CBSC) approved the addition of Chapter 16A \"Non-potable Water Reuse Systems\" to the 2007 California Plumbing Code. Emergency regulations allowing greywater reuse systems were subsequently filed with the California Secretary of State August 2009 and became effective immediately upon filing. Assembly Bill 371 (Goldberg 2006) and Senate Bill 283 (DeSaulnier 2009) directed the California Department of Water Resources (DWR), in consultation with the State Department of Health Services, to adopt and submit to the CBSC regulations for a State version of Appendix J (renamed Chapter 16 Part 2) of the Uniform Plumbing Code to provide design standards to safely plumb buildings with both potable and recycled water systems. November 2009 the CBSC unanimously voted to approve the California Dual Plumbing Code that establishes statewide standards for potable and recycled water plumbing systems in commercial, retail and office buildings, theaters, auditoriums, condominiums, schools, hotels, apartments, barracks, dormitories, jails, prisons and reformatories. In addition, the California Department of Housing and Community Development has greywater standards and DWR has also proposed dual plumbing design standards.\n\nIn Arizona, greywater is defined as water with a BOD5 less than 380 mg/L, TSS<430 and the Fats, Oil, and Grease (FOG) content should be less than 75 mg/L. The Arizona water has issued advice that people should avoid direct contact with grey water. Most greywater use is by underground drip irrigation since surface irrigation is not permitted.There are three types of use in Arizona: up to a quota of 400 gpd per family (close to 1500 L per day) no permission is required for greywater use, between 400 and 3000 gpd (1500 and 11,355 L per day, respectively) permission is required and above 3000 gpd (>11,355 L per day) it is considered as conventional wastewater venture. \nOther limitations include restrictions on contact, restrictions on use on herbaceous food plants, exclusion of hazardous materials and effective separation from surface water run-off.\nThe Uniform Plumbing Code, adopted in some U.S. jurisdictions, prohibits greywater use indoors.\n\nGreywater recycling is relatively uncommon in the UK, largely because the financial cost and environmental impact of mains water is very low. Greywater systems should comply with BS8525 and the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations in order to avoid risks to health.\n\nGreywater from single sewered premises has the potential to be reused on site for ornamental, garden and lawn irrigation, toilet flushing. The reuse options include Horizontal flow reed bed (HFRB), Vertical flow reed bed (VFRB), Green roof water recycling system (GROW), Membrane bioreactor (MBR) and Membrane chemical reactor (MCR).\n\nAlthough Canada is a water-rich country, the center of the country freezes in the winter and droughts happen some summers. There are locations where watering outdoors is restricted in the dry season, some water must be transported from an outside source, or on-site costs are high. At present, the standards for greywater reuse are not strict compared with other countries. The National Plumbing Code, which is adopted in whole or in part by the provinces, indicates that non-potable water systems should only be used to supply toilets and underground irrigation systems, collecting rainwater with roof gutters is included as a form of greywater. Health Canada has published a guideline to use greywater for toilet flushing and British Columbia's building code includes subsurface irrigation with greywater. In Alberta \"wastewater from any source cannot be used inside buildings\" Saskatchewan also treats greywater as sewage.\n\nHousehold greywater from a single contaminated site may be reused on-site at the ornamental garden and lawn watering, toilet flushing and laundry uses, depending on the type of greywater and treatment level. Some people wisely re-use the gross weight, but others use it even worse (without any treatment), such as bathing in the bath or simply transferring laundry water to the lawn where children and pets may be exposed directly. The Department of Health and Community Services (DHCS) focuses on protecting public health and then takes action to control and minimize the public health risks associated with greywater reuse.\n\nThe government of Cyprus has implemented four water-saving subsidies: drilling installations, drilling with lavatories, installation of hot water circulation systems and installation of greywater recycling systems.\n\nThe emphasis on the use of greywater in Jordan has two main purposes: water conservation and socio-economic aspects. The Amman Islamic Water Development and Management Network (INWRDAM) in Jordan promoted research on gray water reuse in Jordan. At present, greywater research in Jordan is funded mainly by the International Development Research Center (IDRC) in Ottawa, Canada, to install and use greywater systems based on the establishment of small wetland systems in private households. The cost of this system is about 500 US dollars per household.\n\n"}
{"id": "9936156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936156", "title": "Gross lease", "text": "Gross lease\n\nA gross lease is a type of commercial lease where the tenant pays a flat rental amount, and the landlord pays for all property charges regularly incurred by the ownership, including taxes, utilities and water. Most apartment leases resemble gross leases. The term \"gross lease\" is distinguished from the term \"net lease\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23814346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814346", "title": "Group Risk Income Protection", "text": "Group Risk Income Protection\n\nIn United States agricultural policy, Group Risk Income Protection (GRIP) is a county-based revenue insurance program that is a variation of Group Risk Protection (GRP). GRIP pays a participating producer when the county revenue per acre for an insured crop falls below a trigger revenue selected by the insured producer, regardless of the actual revenue level of the individual producer. It is available on a limited basis where GRP is currently available.\n"}
{"id": "1697372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697372", "title": "Hanrapetutyun Party", "text": "Hanrapetutyun Party\n\nThe Hanrapetutyun Party (), also known as Republic (Armenian: Հանրապետություն \"Hanrapetutyun\") is a radical-centrist and pro-European political party in Armenia. The party was founded by ex-members of Republican Party of Armenia and members of the Yerkrapah Volunteer Union: Aram Sargsyan, Albert Bazeyan, Vagharshak Harutiunyan, Ara Ketikyan and others, in April, 2001.\nAt the parliamentary elections 2003, the party won 1 out of 131 seats. In the 2007 Armenian parliamentary elections it didn't win any seats with a popular vote of 1.65%.\n\nIn the 2017 Armenian parliamentary election and 2017 Yerevan City Council election, it took part in the elections as part of the Way Out Alliance (YELQ) together with Civil Contract and Bright Armenia parties.\n\nAfter the Velvet Revolution in 2018, Civil Contract whose leader Nikol Pashinyan led the revolution, left the Way Out Alliance and the Hanrapetutyun Party formed an alliance with Bright Armenia called Bright Alliance. The Alliance took part in 2018 Yerevan City Council election with Hanrapetutyun Party's deputy leader Artak Zeynalyan as a Mayoral candidate.\n\nBefore the 2018 Armenian parliamentary election, the party formed the We Alliance with the Free Democrats Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "326653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326653", "title": "Higher Superstition", "text": "Higher Superstition\n\nHigher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science is a 1994 book by biologist Paul R. Gross and mathematician Norman Levitt.\n\nLevitt states he is a leftist trying to save the \"academic left\" from itself by exposing misuses and abuses of science to advance political goals.\n\nThe book inspired the 1996 Sokal hoax, in which Alan Sokal published a bogus paper to a postmodernist journal that did not peer-review submissions. Sokal stated in an interview that while he was initially skeptical about \"Higher Superstition\", he concluded after reading the works Gross and Levit criticized that they were describing them fairly in \"about 80 percent of the cases\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1080231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080231", "title": "History of the Scottish National Party", "text": "History of the Scottish National Party\n\nIn Scotland, the Scottish National Party (SNP) is a centre left, social democratic political party which campaigns for Scottish independence. The SNP has controlled Scotland's devolved legislature since the 2007 election as a minority government, and since the 2011 election as a majority government. Its leader, Nicola Sturgeon, is the First Minister of Scotland.\n\nThe party was founded on 7 April 1934 as the result of a merger between the National Party of Scotland (NPS) and the Scottish Party. Sir Alexander MacEwen became the new party's first leader. The merger was the brainchild of leading NPS figure John MacCormick, who desired unity for the nationalist movement in Scotland, and, upon learning of the Scottish Party's emergence, moved to secure it.\n\nInitially, the SNP did not support all-out independence for Scotland, but rather the establishment of a devolved Scottish Assembly within the United Kingdom. This became the party's initial position on the constitutional status of Scotland as a result of a compromise between the NPS, who did support independence, and the Scottish Party, who were devolutionists. John MacCormick wanted a merger between the two parties and knew that it would only be through the support of devolution rather than independence that the Scottish Party would be persuaded to merge. However, the SNP quickly reverted to the NPS stance of supporting full independence for Scotland.\n\nProfessor Douglas Young was the leader of the Scottish National Party from 1942 to 1945. Young fought for the Scottish people to refuse conscription and his activities were popularly vilified as undermining the British war effort against the Nazis. Young was imprisoned for refusing to be conscripted.\n\nJohn MacCormick left the party in 1942, owing to his failure to change the party's policy from supporting all out independence to Home Rule at that year's SNP conference in Glasgow. McCormick went on to form the Scottish Covenant Association, a non-partisan political organisation campaigning for the establishment of a devolved Scottish Assembly. This Covenant in itself proved politically challenging for the SNP, as it stole their nationalist platform. It also deprived the party of many members, who left with MacCormick.\n\nThe Covenant managed to get over 2 million signatures to a petition demanding Home Rule for Scotland in the late 1940s and early 1950s, and secured support from across the parties, but it eventually faded as a political force.\n\nThe SNP's early years were characterised by a lack of electoral progress and it wasn't until 1945 that the SNP's first member was elected to the UK parliament at Westminster. The party's first MP was Robert McIntyre who won a by-election for Motherwell under unusual wartime conditions, but he lost the seat in the general election later that year.\n\nMcIntyre's brief spell did not particularly galvanise the SNP. The 1950s were characterised by low levels of support, and this made it difficult for the party to advance. Indeed, in most general elections they were unable to put up more than a handful of candidates. The party's former president, Roland Muirhead, devoted much of his time to the Scottish National Congress, a direct action organisation which competed for support with the SNP.\n\nA split occurred in the SNP in 1955 (although not as large as that of 1942) when a grouping styled the 55 Group started an organised campaign of internal dissent. This group was formed mainly of younger SNP members frustrated at the lack of progress of the party. This split proved to be minor and involved only a few members, mainly located in the city of Edinburgh, and the new National Party of Scotland made no impact whatsoever in the long-run.\n\nDespite the poor record the SNP had in the 1950s, by the 1960s, they were beginning to make more impact. They won a significant vote in the Glasgow Bridgeton by-election, 1961, and William Wolfe did well at the West Lothian by-election, 1962. The party began to grow quickly in the 1960s with a rapid growth in the number of recognised branches. For example, in 1966 alone the SNP National Executive recognised 113 new branches of the party. 1967 was the year that the party signalled they could begin to make an impact electorally. The party polled very well at the Pollok by-election, winning some 28% of the votes cast in a constituency where they had never stood before.\n\nLater that year, the SNP scored an even greater electoral success. Winnie Ewing won the Hamilton constituency in a by-election in 1967 with the help of national organizer John McAteer. Consequently, the SNP began to make a serious impact on the political scene. Ewing famously said on the night of her by-election victory, 'stop the world, Scotland wants to get on', and this spirit seemed to be embraced by many Scots. Her victory propelled the party into the popular conscience and many new members joined as a result.\n\nA novel feature of the 1967 SNP Annual Conference was that the party leader Arthur Donaldson was challenged for the position of party convenor. His challenger was Douglas Drysdale, who was vocally critical of Donaldson's leadership. Donaldson overwhelmingly defeated Drysdale to retain his position. Several prominent individuals formed the 1320 Club, hoping to develop a wider movement in the style of the Scottish Covenant Association, but they were expelled in 1968 for advocating paramilitary activity.\n\nIn local elections, the SNP were beginning to show they could compete also. In the 1967 Local Council elections, the SNP secured over 200,000 votes across the country making 27 gains in the burgh elections, and 42 in the counties. They managed to take control of Stirling council where former party leader Robert McIntyre became Provost. The SNP then went onto secure the largest share of the Scottish vote of any of the parties contesting the 1968 Local Council elections, winning some 40% of the vote.\n\nEwing's by-election victory and this improved electoral performance in the local elections helped to provoke the then UK Labour Government to establish the Kilbrandon Commission to set up the blue-print for the establishment of a devolved Scottish Assembly. It also prompted Edward Heath's announcement at the Conservative Perth Conference in 1968 that if he became Prime Minister he would establish a Scottish Assembly.\n\nScotland's unionist politicians were becoming increasingly worried at the growth of the SNP. The Labour Party in particular had cause for alarm as Scotland provided so much of their support base, and the SNP were now picking up support in their very heartlands.\n\nAt the 1969 party conference, William Wolfe was elected SNP leader in place of Arthur Donaldson.\n\nAt the 1970 general election, the SNP improved their vote over 1966, but did not make a serious breakthrough. Ewing lost her Hamilton seat and the only consolation for the SNP was the capture of the Western Isles, making Donald Stewart into their only MP. Thereafter, though, the SNP entered a period of sustained growth following the pattern of the 1960s: a number of strong showings in individual by-elections.\n\nThere was a minor setback in the early 1970s when a small number of party members in Dundee left to form a Labour Party of Scotland. This new party contested the Dundee East by-election of 1973, and the number of votes they captured was more than the Labour candidate's margin of victory over the SNP candidate, Gordon Wilson. However, in the long-run, this new party folded and most of its members returned to the SNP.\n\nThey were bolstered by their capture of the Glasgow Govan seat with Margo MacDonald as their candidate from the Labour Party in a by-election in 1973. This again signalled to Labour that the SNP posed an electoral threat to them and in the February 1974 General Election they returned 7 MPs. The failure of the Labour Party to secure an overall majority prompted them to quickly return to the polls to secure such and in the October 1974 General Election the SNP performed even better than they had done earlier in the year, winning 11 MPs and managing to get over 30% of the vote across Scotland. The main driving force behind the growth of the SNP in the 1970s was the discovery of oil in the North Sea off the coast of Scotland. The SNP ran a hugely successful \"It's Scotland's oil\" campaign, emphasising the way in which they believed the discovery of oil could benefit all of Scotland's citizens.\n\nFormer SNP leader William Wolfe has argued that along with this campaign, the SNP was aided by their support for the workers in the Upper Clyde Shipbuilders Work-in, being led by Jimmy Reid, as well as supporting the workers at the Scottish Daily Express when they attempted to run the paper themselves and other such campaigns.\n\nThe SNP continued to ride high in the opinion polls throughout the 1970s, and many members are convinced that if the Liberals, led by David Steel hadn't maintained the Labour Government of the time in power, the SNP might have made further electoral gains in the resulting general election. It did well at the local elections of 1977, making 98 net gains and leaving much of Scotland under hung councils. However 1978 saw a Labour revival at the expense of the SNP, at three by-elections (Glasgow Garscadden, Hamilton and Berwick and East Lothian) and the local elections. The general election did not come until 1979, by which time the SNP's support had dwindled.\n\nIn 1979, the SNP Parliamentary Group voted against the Labour Government in a Vote of No Confidence, causing the dissolution of the government and subsequent election. The then Labour Prime Minister, James Callaghan famously described this decision by the SNP as that of \"turkeys voting for Christmas\". After the 1979 general election, the SNP had only two seats, representing a net loss of nine seats. Margaret Thatcher became the UK's Prime Minister.\n\nThe party was accused of paranoia when its leaders claimed it was being spied upon by government agents, but this belief was eventually substantiated by declassified government files. These files proved that the government had in fact spied on the SNP in the 1950s. During the 1970s, the British government used both police and agents placed within trade unions to limit the growth of the SNP the best it could. The Labour Party, which controlled the government at the time and drew a great deal of support from Scotland, saw that the SNP had become much more than a protest vote. It is alleged that government interference is part of what helped bring about the collapse in support for the party in 1979. Labour continues to ridicule the SNP for their claims of government interference. \"The SNP appears totally paranoid. All the evidence shows they are absolutely no threat whatsoever to the British state,\" said a Labour spokesperson in response to the SNP's complaints. Despite these words, the Labour government has had several files on the SNP sealed for fifty years, citing reasons of national security.\n\nThe party went into a period of decline after the failure to secure a devolved Scottish Assembly in 1979, its poor performance in the general election of that year, and a perceived complicity in helping Thatcher get elected by voting for the dissolution of the Labour government. A period of internal strife followed, culminating in the proscription of two internal groups, Siol nan Gaidheal and the left-wing 79 Group. However, several 79 Group members would later return to prominence in the party, including Alex Salmond, who would later lead the party. It proved too much for Margo MacDonald though, who was defeated by Douglas Henderson for the position of party deputy leader at the 1979 party conference, and left the SNP, angry at the treatment of the left wing of the party, although she would later return to the party and be elected as an MSP.\n\nThere was also another internal grouping formed within the party, primarily as a response to the growth of the 79 Group entitled the Campaign for Nationalism in Scotland, with the support of traditionalists such as Winnie Ewing. This group sought to ensure that the primary objective of the SNP was campaigning for independence outwith a traditional left-right orientation. If the group was successful, it would have undone the work of figures such as William Wolfe, who moved the SNP to become a clearly defined social democratic party in the 1970s.\n\nThe period of internal factionalism inside the SNP came to an end at the 1982 SNP Conference, where internal factions were banned. The 79 Group, despite their proscription, were bolstered by the collapse of the Scottish Labour Party (SLP) in the aftermath of the 1979 election. This resulted in the SLP's leading figure, Jim Sillars deciding to join the SNP, as did a great number of other ex-SLP members. Sillars had been a Labour Party MP in the 1970s but, dissatisfied with the Labour Government's policy on Scottish devolution and their socio-economic programme, had in 1976 formed the SLP. This influx of ex-SLP members served to strengthen the left of the party, to which these new members naturally gravitated.\n\nIn 1979, William Wolfe stood down as SNP leader, and in the resultant leadership election Gordon Wilson was elected leader with 530 votes to 79 Group member Stephen Maxwell's 117 votes, and Willie MacRae's 52 votes.\n\nThe 1980s offered little hope for the SNP with poor performances in both the 1983 and 1987 General Elections. Indeed, even the party leader, Gordon Wilson lost his seat in 1987. The party took stock of these results and started to analyse its policy platform. Sillars began to grow in influence in the party and the SNP was firmly placing itself on the left of centre.\n\nSillars argued against the idea that the party should eschew left-right politics in favour of focussing solely on independence by stating the Scottish people had to be given reasons as to why independence would benefit their lives, and that this should involve a fully developed socio-economic programme. He argued against the idea that somehow the country could be guided in a \"tartan trance\" to independence, as if the Scottish people could ignore the realities of the economic system in which they found themselves. Sillars was also key in moving the party to adopting a position of \"Independence in Europe\" to alleviate the \"separatist\" tag that the SNP's unionist opponents attached to them. Previously, the SNP had been sceptical about Scotland's continued membership of the EEC, but Sillars helped secure a firm commitment to an independent Scotland's membership.\n\nThere was a minor setback in 1987 when a few members on the left of the party broke away to establish a Scottish Socialist Party (not the same one that is in existence now) but in the long-run this small party did not establish itself and it folded without threatening to make a major electoral breakthrough.\n\nAs the 1980s wore on, the party managed to re-group and in 1988 the SNP managed to win the Govan seat in a by-election for the second time, with Sillars as their candidate. This was a huge upset, as the SNP overturned a Labour majority of around 19,000 and had not been expected to win. However, a hard fought campaign using the party's sizeable activist base won through. Sillars' oratorical capabilities and street campaigning methods also played a decisive role in the party's victory.\n\nSillars' victory provoked great alarm amongst the Labour Party hierarchy in Scotland, much as Ewing's had in the 1960s. Fearing that their strong Scottish electoral base was under threat, they helped establish the Scottish Constitutional Convention to set out a blueprint for devolution. Initially the SNP looked as though they would get involved and party leader Gordon Wilson and Sillars attended an initial meeting of the convention. However, the convention's unwillingness to contemplate independence as a constitutional option persuaded Sillars in particular against getting involved and the SNP did not take part.\n\nIn 1990 Wilson stood down as leader and was replaced by Alex Salmond, who defeated Margaret Ewing for the post by 486 votes to 186. Salmond's victory surprised many as Ewing had the backing of most of the party leadership, including Sillars and the party secretary at the time, John Swinney, although he would go on to become a key ally of Salmond. Ewing's prominent supporters made her many people's favourite to win the contest, but in the end Salmond was the convincing victor. He proved a capable leader with his witty and intelligent style of debate giving him a national prominence and boosting the SNP's profile.\n\nIn that same year the SNP presence at Westminster was boosted when Labour MP for Dunfermline West, Dick Douglas defected to the SNP, citing his dissatisfaction with the way Labour had handled the Poll Tax issue as one reason. This boosted the SNP numbers at Westminster to five.\n\nThe 1992 General Election had promised much for the SNP. It proved to be mixed in fortunes. The SNP held three seats they had won in 1987, but lost Govan. They also lost Dunfermline West, but this was not helped by the sitting MP Dick Douglas deciding to stand against Labour MP Donald Dewar in his Glasgow seat instead of defending the seat he had represented for years.\n\nThe SNP had failed to make headway in terms of winning seats. However, their campaign proved a success in terms of votes won, with the SNP vote going up by 50% from their 1987 performance. It proved too much to bear for Sillars though, and he quit active politics, famously describing the Scots as '90 minute patriots'. It also signaled the breakdown of the political relationship between Sillars and Salmond.\n\nThe intervening years between the 1992 and 1997 general elections were marked by some SNP electoral success. In the 1994 elections for the European Parliament the party managed to secure over 30% of the popular vote and return two MEPs (Winnie Ewing and Allan MacCartney). The SNP also came very close to winning the Monklands East by-election of that year, caused by the death of the leader of the Labour Party, John Smith. In 1995 they went one better, when the Perth and Kinross by-election was won by Roseanna Cunningham who later became the party's deputy leader.\n\nThe 1997 General Election saw the SNP double their number of MPs from three to six.\n\nThe return of the Labour Party to power came along with a referendum on Scottish devolution, which resulted in the establishment of the Scottish Parliament. This gave the SNP an opportunity to firmly establish itself as a political force in Scotland, and it returned 35 MSPs in the first Scottish Parliament election in 1999. Later that year, the party returned two members to the European Parliament, narrowly missing out on sending a third.\n\nThe first term of the Scottish Parliament did not offer the SNP much comfort. Two MSPs quit the party, Margo MacDonald and Dorothy-Grace Elder, citing the actions of some of their colleagues as reasons for their resignations. The SNP also performed poorly at the 2001 UK general election with a reduced share of the vote and one fewer MP.\n\nDespite optimism that the party would at least retain the same number of MSPs they gained in 1999, a downturn in electoral fortune at the 2003 Scottish Parliament Elections weakened them somewhat. They returned 27 elected members in the Scottish Parliament, though remained the second largest party. The only parties which increased their representation in that election were the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP) and the Scottish Green Party, both of which also support independence for Scotland.\n\nRecent debate within the SNP has been marked by disagreements between the gradualist wing of the party, which believes in taking powers from Westminster bit-by-bit, and the fundamentalist wing, which argue that a greater emphasis should be placed on the party's support for independence to enthuse their activists and core supporters.\n\nIn 2000 John Swinney MSP was elected leader, defeating Alex Neil MSP by 547 votes to 268 in a hotly contested leadership election to replace Alex Salmond as National Convenor. Swinney's leadership quickly came under challenge. His subdued style of debating technique was often contrasted with that of his more charismatic predecessor.\n\nSoon, Swinney's leadership was challenged by grassroots activist, Dr. Bill Wilson, in the summer of 2003. Wilson was broadly critical of what he argued were the centralising tendencies of the Swinney leadership, as well as a drift to the centre ground of politics away from the SNP's traditional position of the left. At the party conference of that year, the election took place with Swinney receiving 577 votes and Wilson taking 111.\n\n2004 did not get off to a good start for Swinney's leadership. On 1 January, a former parliamentary candidate and a party activist in the Shetland Islands Brian Nugent announced that he was forming his own pro-independence party, the \"Scottish Party\" (which eventually relaunched itself as the Free Scotland Party) in response to what he perceived to be an overly pro-EU stance by the SNP.\n\nSoon afterwards, the party's National Executive Committee decided to suspend and then expel Campbell Martin, an SNP MSP. Martin had backed Wilson's leadership challenge and had continued to be overtly critical of Swinney's leadership, resulting in disciplinary action.\n\nDespite a slump in the vote and a decrease in the number of available seats from 7 to 6, the SNP was able to retain its two Members of the European Parliament at the 2004 European elections. Nonetheless, John Swinney announced his resignation on 22 June 2004. He said that he would remain as caretaker leader until a successor was elected.\n\nShortly afterwards, two MSPs (Roseanna Cunningham and Nicola Sturgeon) and one former MSP (Mike Russell) announced that they would be candidates in the election for the party leadership. Alex Neil MSP announced that he would not be a candidate, citing what he believed to be the hostility of senior party figures such as Fergus Ewing and Alex Salmond to the prospect of his becoming leader. In a surprise announcement on 15 July 2004, Alex Salmond announced that he would also be a candidate in the leadership race, despite having previously said \"if asked, I'll decline, if nominated, I'll defer, and if elected, I'll resign\". Nicola Sturgeon then withdrew from the contest and declared her support for Salmond and decided to stand for Deputy Leader.\n\nThis resulted in Kenny MacAskill pulling out of the race for deputy and declaring his support for Salmond and Sturgeon, leaving Sturgeon standing against Fergus Ewing and Christine Grahame. Shortly after Salmond and Sturgeon announced they were running on a joint ticket.\n\nThe campaign for leader was characterised by being a low-key affair. Salmond remained firm favourite to win back the leadership of the SNP. There remained greater doubt as to who would be the deputy leader with it being widely expected to be a much more close run affair than that for the post of leader.\n\nThere were some surprises during the course of the campaign. Alex Neil and Adam Ingram both came out in support of Alex Salmond, although they supported Grahame for deputy rather than Sturgeon. This was unexpected as both men had previously been critics of Salmond in the past. It was particularly surprising in light of Salmond's earlier comments, before he had entered the race that he would have difficulties working with Neil should he be elected leader, although he later went on the record to say that he should not have publicly said this.\n\nThere was some degree of criticism of Salmond's position by other candidates, who felt that his decision to lead the SNP from being a member of the British Parliament at Westminster rather than from the Scottish Parliament was contrary to the party's aim of independence. Nonetheless on 3 September 2004, Salmond and Sturgeon were elected leader and deputy respectively. The result of the Leadership contest, in what was the first \"One Member One Vote\" election run by the SNP (as opposed to the delegate based elections of the past) was Salmond 4,952 (75.8%); Cunningham 953 (14.6%); and Russell 631 (9.7%). The result of the contest for Deputy Leader was Sturgeon 3,521 (53.9%); Ewing 1,605 (24.6%); and Grahame 1,410 (21.6%).\n\nSince Salmond was an MP until 2010, Sturgeon led the party at the Scottish Parliament until Alex Salmond was elected as an MSP in 2007.\n\nThe SNP had mixed fortunes in the general election held on 5 May 2005. They managed to gain two seats (Angus MacNeil winning in Na h-Eileanan an Iar and Stewart Hosie in Dundee East) from the notional four they held to bring their total to six Members of Parliament. MacNeil's victory received particular praise for the 9.2% swing from Labour that led to the victory, especially as it was the first SNP gain from Labour in a UK general election for 31 years. However, there was also disappointment in that the sitting MP Annabelle Ewing did not manage to win the new Ochil and South Perthshire constituency, finishing 688 votes behind the Labour candidate.\n\nThere was also disappointment in that the SNP's share of the Scottish vote fell to 17.7% and that they finished third behind the Liberal-Democrats; this was the first time this had ever happened. The SNP's share of the vote across the Scottish Central Belt was particularly low, with some candidates only just managing to achieve a high enough share of the vote in their constituency to retain their £500 deposit.\n\nHowever, Alex Salmond was in buoyant mood in the aftermath of the campaign, describing the SNP's Westminster parliamentary group as \"Scotland's Super Six\" and also promising that the SNP would be far more competitive in the 2007 election for the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe Scottish National Party was victorious in the 2007 election to the Scottish Parliament, emerging as the largest party with 47 seats. It narrowly defeated the incumbent Scottish Labour Party, which had 46 seats. The Conservatives won 17 seats, the Lib Dems 16 seats, the Greens 2 seats, and the Independent candidate Margo MacDonald was re-elected. On 16 May 2007, Alex Salmond was elected First Minister by the Parliament and sworn in the next day at the Court of Session in Edinburgh. The SNP went on to win the Glasgow East by-election, 2008 and the largest share of the Scottish popular vote in the European Parliament election, 2009.\n\nThe 2010 UK general election proved disappointing for the SNP, as the party only retained their six seats without making any gains, although they did overtake the Liberal Democrats to become the second-largest party on the popular vote share.\n\nThe Scottish Parliament general election, 2011, however, delivered the first majority government of the devolved Scottish Parliament as the SNP won 69 seats, considered a remarkable feat as the Additional Member System used to elect MSPs was originally implemented to prevent single-party governments, as well as to produce proportional results. Following the result, the leaders of all the main opposition parties resigned their positions. Later, the SNP confirmed its intent to hold a referendum on Scottish independence.\n\nIn October 2012, the SNP voted at its party conference to change their stance on Nato, supporting continued membership for an independent Scotland. This was widely seen as the resolution of the long-standing Nato debate within the party. In response, two MSPs - John Finnie and Jean Urquhart - resigned from the party and became Independent MSPs. Another MSP, John Wilson, followed after the independence referendum.\n\nIn November 2013, some policies the SNP would pursue in an independent Scotland were detailed in \"Scotland's Future\", the Scottish Government's 670-page white paper on the case for Scottish independence and the means through which Scotland would become an independent country. It had previously been claimed by the SNP that the White Paper would be a \"game changer\" and support for independence did rise after the publication of the document.\n\nThe referendum was held on Thursday 18 September 2014. The Yes Campaign was defeated, with 44.7% of voters voting \"Yes\" and 55.3% voting \"No\" in response to the question \"Should Scotland be an independent country?\". The turnout was 84.6%.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Yes Campaign, on the morning of the 19 September, Alex Salmond announced he intended to step down as Leader of the Scottish National Party and First Minister of Scotland at the SNP's Autumn Conference.\n\nOn the 14 November 2014, Nicola Sturgeon was elected as Leader of the Scottish National Party unopposed, with Dundee East MP Stewart Hosie elected as Depute Leader. On 20 November 2014, Sturgeon was formally sworn in as First Minister of Scotland, becoming the first female to hold the position. She embarked on a tour of Scotland, speaking to 12,000 people at the Hydro Arena in Glasgow on 22 November 2014.\n\nThe SNP's party membership increased dramatically post referendum, from around 25,000 members on the day of the referendum to around 92,000 as of 22 November 2014.\n\nThe SNP won an astonishing 56 out of 59 Scottish seats at the general election, at the expense of the Labour Party, despite only receiving 50.0% of the total vote.\n\nThe SNP remained in control of the Scottish Parliament following the 2016 parliamentary elections. However, the SNP dropped from 69 seats at the 2011 election to 63, losing their majority. Nicola Sturgeon retained her post as First Minister under an SNP minority government.\n\nThe SNP underperformed against polling expectations, losing 21 seats to bring their Westminster MPs down to 35. In what was largely attributed to their stance on holding a second Scottish independence referendum and saw a significant swing to the Unionist parties, with seats being gained by the Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats and a significant reduction in their majorities in the seats they did manage to retain. High-profile losses included: SNP House of Commons leader Angus Robertson in Moray and former SNP leader and First Minister Alex Salmond in Gordon; both of whom lost their seats to the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "2741122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741122", "title": "International Bureau of Revolutionary Youth Organizations", "text": "International Bureau of Revolutionary Youth Organizations\n\nInternational Bureau of Revolutionary Youth Organizations (in German: \"Internationales Büro Revolutionärer Jugendorganisationen\", in French: \"Bureau International des Organisations Révolutionnaires des Jeunes\") was an international organization of socialist youth, formed in 1934. It functioned as the youth wing of the London Bureau.\n\nThe founding congress was held in the Netherlands, hosted by the Independent Socialist Party (OSP). However the congress was broken up by the Dutch police. Foreign delegates were deported, amongst them German delegates who were deported back to Germany. The congress was then re-convened in Lille. The congress elected a Bureau (with one representative of each participating organization) and a Secretariat. The Secretariat had three members, one from the SAPD (Willy Brandt), one from the International Left Opposition (Heinz Epe) and one from the Socialist Party of Sweden.\n\nThe IBRYO secretariat was headquartered in Scandinavia. The Bureau secretariat met in Malmö and Stockholm. Epe was headquartered in Oslo, Norway.\n\nIBRYO published \"Internationales Jugend-Bulletin\".\n\nIn 1935 the Trotskyists were expelled from the Bureau, as they had collectively embarked on entryism into the major labour parties (which was contrary to the ambitions of IBRYO and the London Bureau to build a new international).\n\n"}
{"id": "50048648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50048648", "title": "International Journal of Health Services", "text": "International Journal of Health Services\n\nThe International Journal of Health Services is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering health policy. It was established in 1971 and is published by SAGE Publications. The editor-in-chief is Vicente Navarro (Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.135, ranking it 76th out of 90 journals in the category \"Health Care Sciences & Services\".\n"}
{"id": "6197524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6197524", "title": "International Relations and Security Network", "text": "International Relations and Security Network\n\nThe International Relations and Security Network (ISN) was part of the Center for Security Studies (CSS) at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, which is located in Zurich, Switzerland. It was an online information service that provided a range of open access products and resources that concentrated on international relations (IR) and security studies. In 2016, the ISN ceased to be a stand-alone project and was fully integrated into its parent organization as CSS Resources.\n\nThe ISN was established in 1994 as a means of improving cooperation between security policy institutes and to make research programs, projects and papers widely available on the internet. It was initially sponsored by the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sports, the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and the Center for Security Studies.\n\nIts mission developed to promote dialogue and cooperation in the fields of international relations and security studies, primarily by creating, distributing and processing open access information on these issues. The ISN was also a co-organizer of the Swiss-sponsored International Security Forum (ISF), which is a large conference held every two years in Geneva and Zurich on a rotating basis.\n\n\nThe ISN’s web-based, information-providing activities and services were divided into three main categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5351393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5351393", "title": "Iron Wolf (organization)", "text": "Iron Wolf (organization)\n\nIron Wolf (\"Geležinis Vilkas\", also known as Iron Wolf Association) was a Lithuanian paramilitary organization active in 1927–1934. Initially established as an athletic society (founded by officer Algirdas Sliesoraitis, supported by Catholic chaplain V. Mironas), it recruited its members mainly from army officers (overall numbers were minuscule). Its original \"raison d'être\" was perceived as a fight against internal destabilization in light of political crisis, civil unrest and yet another demonstrative threat of military intervention, made by the Polish government. With the exception of glorification of youth and struggle, it featured rather few criteria of fascist ideology. \n\nThe organization gradually radicalized and became almost completely dependent on a personal will of Augustinas Voldemaras, who used it to target his political opponents. After Voldemaras's Cabinet resignation, the movement was banned in 1930, although it continued as an underground group, ad became even more radical. In 1934, its members attempted a failed \"coup d'état\" against President Antanas Smetona. Voldemaras was arrested, released in 1938 and soon emigrated. Former members of the organization reorganized later in the 1930s.\n\nLeading Voldemarists fled to Nazi Germany after the Soviet occupation of Lithuania in 1941. They joined the Lithuanian Activist Front led by Kazys Škirpa, but in the spring of 1941 betrayed him to work directly with the German Sicherheitsdienst (SD). After the Nazi Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union, they led a failed putsch against the Provisional Government of Lithuania. They led the Lithuanian Nationalist Union, which collaborated with the Nazi occupation and which was active in the Holocaust in Lithuania. \n\nThe name of the organization comes from the story of Gediminas's dream, first recorded in \"The Broad Code of Lithuanian Chronicles\" from the 16th century. During the period of 1928–1929, Iron Wolf published its periodical \"Tautos kelias\" twice a month.\n\n"}
{"id": "408711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408711", "title": "Istrian Democratic Assembly", "text": "Istrian Democratic Assembly\n\nThe Istrian Democratic Assembly (, or IDS-DDI) is a centre-left regionalist liberal political party in Croatia primarily operating in Istria County.\n\nIDS was founded on the 14 February 1990 by the writer Ivan Pauletta. IDS embraces principles of respect for human rights and freedoms, regionalism and historical characteristics of Istria, protection of private property and anti-fascism. Party advocates greater regional autonomy, particularly in Istria, decentralization of Croatia and the establishment of a transnational and cross-border euro-region encompassing the whole of Istria. The party president is currently Boris Miletić, Mayor of Pula and one of 3 IDS's representatives in the Croatian Parliament. IDS held the Ministry of European Integration between 2000 and 2001 in the Cabinet of Ivica Račan and Ministry of Tourism between 2011 and 2016 in the Cabinet of Zoran Milanović. IDS member Valter Flego serves as current County Prefect of the Istrian County, while former IDS president Ivan Jakovčić serves as a member of the European Parliament. 3 out 4 prefects of Istria County were members of IDS. In addition, out of 10 towns in Istria county, IDS rules over 9.\n\nIDS is member of the Liberal International and Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.\n\nThe three rams on the party coat of arms represent a historical symbol of the region, which is also represented by the ram in the fourth of the five parts of the crown resting atop the Croatian coat of arms (25-field white and red chequerboard) on the Croatian flag.\n\nThe party was founded in 1990 by Ivan Pauletta, Elio Martinčić and Mario Sandrić, on the eve of the first multi-party elections in Croatia after communism. The party decided not to participate, thus allowing the post-communist Social Democratic Party of Croatia (SDP) to sweep the region's votes.\n\nThe party was led by Ivan Jakovčić between 1991 and 2014.\n\nIDS instead made its electoral debut in the 1992 elections and used the collapse of the SDP to take all three Istrian constituencies.\n\nThis result turned Istria into an area of significant concern for Croatian President Franjo Tuđman and his Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), which had dominated every other region in Croatia. For the first elections for Croatian Chamber of Counties, which also coincided with the first election for newly formed Istria County, state-controlled media launched an unprecedented media blitz directed almost exclusively at Istria. This effort spectacularly backfired as Istrian voters gave almost three quarters of their votes to IDS. After that no party challenged IDS supremacy in Istria, at least not directly.\n\nThe main policy of the IDS is intercession of cultural and economical identity of Istria and equal status for Italian and Croatian in Istria. This was in opposition to Tuđman and his hard-line nationalism. Other Croatian political parties were more pragmatic, and IDS cooperated with them in the Croatian Parliament and during elections. In Istria, however, IDS is bitterly opposed by local branches of SDP, as well as their former member and first Istrian prefect Luciano Delbianco who had defected and formed a new party called Istrian Democratic Forum.\n\nIDS was briefly part of the national government following 2000 parliamentary and presidential elections. One year later, IDS, dissatisfied with the way Ivica Račan and his coalition partners treated Istria, left the government, although they continued to support it in Parliament.\n\nIn 2006, IDS joined the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) Party.\n\nFrom 2010-2015 IDS was a member of the Kukuriku coalition.\nIts member Darko Lorencin served as the minister of tourism in the Croatian government; he is a cousin of Beatrice Lorenzin: they are of a same Italian-Croat family.\n\nIn the Croatian Parliament, Damir Kajin most frequently acted as the party's spokesperson, and he headed the party list in the 2007 elections where the party gained 3 representatives. Kajin was however removed from the party's membership on 3 January 2013 after forming his own coalition for the 2013 local elections in Istria. This reduced the IDS from three to two representatives in the Croatian Sabor, and forced the party's parliamentary club to dissolve due to insufficient membership.\n"}
{"id": "38901141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38901141", "title": "John Call Cook", "text": "John Call Cook\n\nJohn Call Cook, PhD (April 7, 1918 – October 12, 2012) was an American geophysicist who played a crucial role in establishing the field of ground-penetrating radar and is generally regarded as contributing the fundamental research to develop the field. Cook is also known for demonstrating that aerial surveys can map surface radioactivity to enable much more efficient prospecting for uranium ore, for inventing electrostatic detection of hazardous ice crevasses, and for developing other novel techniques in remote sensing.\n\nDuring most of his professional career, Cook specialized in the techniques of remote sensing and the detection of underground objects.\n\nJohn Call Cook was born on April 7, 1918 in Afton, Wyoming, to Carl and Ella Cook. Carl made his living as an attorney and farmer, and was himself the son of Phineas Wolcott Cook and number 4 wife, Johanna.\n\nDuring his teens, John constructed various devices including a spark-gap device, a batteryless crystal radio, a six-inch telescope, and an underwater 'diving helmet' constructed of a cookie can with plastic sheet bolted and gasketed for vision, powered by a garden hose and three tire pumps ganged together.\n\nCook initially studied at Brigham Young University then enrolled with the University of Utah to study Physics. In the Spring of 1941 Cook began work as lab assistant at the university, and graduated that same year.\n\nAs a physics major during the war, Cook was recruited to work at the Radiation Lab at MIT where he was assigned to work in the \"Experimental Systems Group - 44\" under Dr. James L. Lawson in the Roof Laboratory. This group worked on advanced problems of radar systems, such as signal discernibility, anti-jamming, short pulses, and receiver design. For some time afterward this group's experimental systems led the field in performance—its members were continually breaking new ground and extending the range of radar's capabilities.\n\nThey used an S-band (10 cm wavelength) and an X-band (3 cm) set, each with several kinds of display, and later received a K-band set (1 cm) which could resolve the structure of a nearby gasholder. These sets had around 300 vacuum tubes each, and 10 to 20 adjustment knobs each, and many interconnecting cables. Nearly every day a vacuum tube would fail, and they would have to trace and troubleshoot.\n\nThey often tracked a B-17 bomber sent from Bedford Airfield for their use, trying variations in frequency and polarization, the use of chaff and jamming countermeasures, and trying to evaluate the use of propeller modulation signal amplitude to identify friendly versus hostile.\n\nCook was elected president of the Rocket Research Society, a special-interest club, at the Radiation Lab.\n\nThe American Rocket Society in New York had shut down for the duration of the war, but the M.I.T group continued development of liquid-fueled rockets. Cook built a portable test stand from a wooden box, with a thrust gauge, tanks for fuel and oxidizer, valves with long control rods, and electric ignition. John, Bob Smith, and others built rocket motors of steel, aluminum, ceramic, silver from coins, etc., using the lathes and other facilities of the M.I.T Student Model Shop, where some of the members maintained the precarious good will of the man in charge.\n\nSome of their number managed to obtain liquid oxygen from the nearby Arthur D. Little company, which was developing a portable military \"lox\" generator and was dumping excess product fuming and freezing everything, into the gutter. The club hauled it to their test site in 5-gallon steel cans insulated with fiber mat. This gave their most successful test—the rocket motor roared with a ten-foot plume of flame filled with standing shock waves, with the thrust gauge off-scale for ten seconds or more. But the aluminum motor burned out its throat and set the test stand on fire, which they put out with a Pyrene hand fire extinguisher. However the carbon tetrachloride produced phosgene and chlorine gasses (they deduced), which corroded all the metal.\n\nThey still had gallons of liquid oxygen left, and so decided to make an explosion. The blast shot a board 50 feet in the air end-over-end, and embedded gravel in the chest of the fuse-lighter, even with Cook's efforts at safety. This episode was exaggerated in MIT's humor magazine, where Cook was portrayed as the nonchalant \"Lon Crook\".\n\nIn spring 1945 they received news of the German V-2 rocket-propelled ballistic missiles striking Britain. The German Rocket Society, with their government's support, had continued the work of American Robert Goddard and were far ahead of the U.S. However, their large, successful rockets had been applied at once to military purposes. Cook was disgusted with this and so lost interest in rockets until NASA was formed. When it also developed that he would soon be leaving Cambridge, he resigned as president of the MIT Rocket Research Society and turned it over to Robert Kraichnan, who would later become prominent in relativity.\n\nIn the Fall of 1945 Cook applied for and received a graduate assistantship at Penn State and began work on a master's degree. During his second year there he was appointed to teach Prof. Weber's junior year Thermal Laboratory course. Cook read extensively in the Physics Library on gravitational topics, developed a thesis plan, and performed a program of experiments using an Eötvös torsion balance (an extremely sensitive gravity-sensing instrument) owned by the Geophysics Department in the Mineral Industries building. Prof. Sylvain Pirson there was pleased with the modifications Cook had made to improve the sensitivity of the balance, and with his administration of the course. However Prof. Duncan, the department head, advised Cook that as he'd had serious difficulty with some important mathematical physics courses, it was recommended that he leave with the MS and not come back.\n\nGraduated in 1947 at age 29. Somewhat in shock from the experiences of his Master's, Cook drove home. He met L.V.S. Roos of Texaco, who headed a crew doing seismic prospecting for oil in the Utah area, and was hired on as Assistant Recorder at $300/month. Early each morning their crew of 8 would drive out with the recording truck, a drill-hole rig, and a water tanker to various sites marked by a survey crew. The drill crew made a 3\" hole up to 150' deep and emplaced a dynamite charge. They laid out numerous cables 1,000' around the radius of the recorder truck and attached geophones connected at intervals. Then a preliminary charge would be set off to 'spring' the hole, and then the main shot was made, requiring many switches to be thrown in a special order. This all required concentration and care as, once blown the hole could not be used anymore, and Cook was soon promoted for getting good data. Having a master's degree, Cook was treated as someone special by visiting Texaco officials and Mr. Roos, and it was suggested that he could be a Crew Chief or could be asked to join the laboratory staff in Houston. These successes and being with family, had restored Cook's confidence.\n\nIn late Fall, 1947 Cook received a telegram from Prof. Pirson at Penn State offering him a job in the Geophysics Department as a Research Assistant for $170/mo, to work on a PhD in Geophysics. Tuition would be only a nominal fee, and colder weather meant working on the field crew would be unpleasant, so Cook immediately accepted the opportunity. On arrival at Penn State he moved back into the Graduate Club and was accepted into the PhD program. Cook was made responsible for the earthquake seismograph station so learned how to run it, read the records, and send reports to Washington. At Prof. Pirson's request he built their first vertical-component seismometer and arranged for visible-ink recording of its output upstairs in their offices, so they no longer had to develop photographic records to know when an earthquake was happening anywhere on Earth.\n\nIn the Winter of 1949 Cook attempted to complete an experiment begun during his Master's work: to detect a tangential gravitational field purportedly produced around a rotating body (according to certain published theories). He had not found it with the small centrifuge in the Mineral Processing lab, so arranged to work with the massive turbine rotors at the Westinghouse Plant Apparatus Division, Atomic Power Plant Equipment, east of Pittsburgh, Pa. He drove to the plant several times with the Eötvös torsion balance in the back, and set it up close to one of the newly-made rotors while it was being balanced at 3,600rpm on the giant factory floor. The balance needed to settle for an hour, and Cook needed one reading with the rotor stationary, then another with it turning at full speed; however random vibrations, the starting and stopping for tuning, and heating and cooling to simulate operating conditions made stable readings difficult. Westinghouse engineers showed Cook blueprints of the building, which had a floor of great cast-iron plates 6\" thick, resting on brick piers on bedrock. It could hardly be more sturdy, yet still vibrated from the machinery. Cook tried damping spurious modes by filling the delicate instrument with alcohol, but this induced more instabilities, possibly from thermal currents. During his final attempt at Westinghouse Cook was told that a famous engineer in the research lab wanted to see him, Joseph Slepian, who asked about the theoretical basis of a tangential gravitational field, and proceeded to cast doubt as it's not an effect predicted by Einstein's General Relativity. Cook could not debate the matter and so gave up the pursuit.\n\nAlso during that Winter and at Pirson's request, Cook built a model of an oil well with an electric logging system. This yielded data and curves which Prof. Pirson felt should be published, so Cook wrote \"Laboratory Tests of Electrolog Resistivity Interpretation\", which was published in The Producers Monthly. On the strength of that research Pirson nominated Cook for membership in Sigma Xi, the national research honorary, in which Cook remained a lifelong member.\n\nPirson then arranged for Cook to take over a research project for the Penn Grade Crude Association (a small group of oil firms in northwest Pennsylvania) with a salary of $300/mo and promotion to Research Associate. Another Research Associate, Bacon, and Cook were left with teaching all of the Geophysics courses; Bacon taught most, while Cook taught General Geochemistry for Fall-Winter, 1948-9 and worked in research. At the end of the school year, Pirson left the university for a better paying job with an oil company in Tulsa, OK. All in the department were sorry to see this professor go.\n\nDuring the Winter-Spring of 1948-9 Cook did field work in the oilfields around Bradford in northwestern Pennsylvania as part of the Penn Grade research. These fields are famous for producing high-grade petroleum which is refined into Quaker State, Pennzoil and other superior brands. Cook saw the actual drilling and logging processes, although most wells were 30–50 years old with decrepit and rusty pumping equipment. A central engine running on natural gas (from the wells) in a shack, with steel rods radiating out to wells all around (as much as 500' away), rocking back and forth on the ground or on stands. Here, Cook conceived an improvement in electric logging technique: a thin-sheet current path controlled by 'shielding-current' electrodes, analogous to the Kelvin potential shields he had learned about at the University of Utah. He built a model, which did indeed greatly improve the vertical resolution of the resistivity logging. Cook considered getting a patent, but soon learned that a similar system had been developed by another sole inventor and Schlumberger Well Surveying Corp, who were involved in patent litigation with one another.\n\nProspecting for uranium had just become popular and, because the government had guaranteed to buy\nany uranium found, at an attractive price. Vast areas of the U.S. had never been explored for uranium, and a few lucky individuals became rich by finding ores with simply a geiger counter. Cook saw aerial prospecting as a new field of Geophysics, which needed analysis, so this became his thesis topic. How fast must the detector operate? How high and how fast could one fly? How small could a deposit of ore be and still be detected? How badly would the geophysical anomaly be smeared and weakened by overburden and by the air? How serious is the interference from cosmic rays and background radioactivity? Cook was soon able to answer most of these questions with elaborate calculations based on library studies. However it was necessary to check and verify the calculations by model and full-scale experiments, insofar as this was possible.\n\nThe Geophysics department had just bought a small, portable geiger counter, which did respond well to the gamma rays coming from rock samples Cook had gathered from the Mauch Chunk camotite outcrop. One could get crude quantitative data by counting the audible \"clicks\" it produced over a minute's time. In this way, a gamma-ray \"profile\" of an ore stockpile at a uranium refinery at Rifle, Colorado was obtained during Cook's trip West in the summer of 1950. The ore was clearly detectable at a distance of a quarter-mile. However, it was known that equipment of much greater sensitivity would be needed for a practical airborne survey. In fact, scintillation detectors having both a much larger cross-\nsection and much higher detection efficiency were already in airborne use in Canada and by the U.S. Geological Survey, although many of the details were secret.\n\nCook attempted to cast a large sodium iodide crystal in a glass baking dish, using one of the Department ovens, with poor results. (it's an art) With limited funds, he secured a large geiger-mueller tube 18 inches long, one inch in diameter, which was adequate for his thesis experiments.He developed the needed accessory circuits (high-voltage source and amplifiers, all battery-powered, a borrowed mechanical pulse counter, and 400 ft of lightweight, high-voltage twin cable on a portable reel). With this equipment Cook found the effect of height on the gamma ray field from the soil (using flagpoles). He also ran fairly accurate (1.5%) radiation profiles at various heights over several gamma-ray sources: boxes of ore, the Mauch Chunk uranium deposit, and 0.1 gram of pure radium borrowed from a hospital! Heights up to 300 ft. were achieved using 6-foot hydrogen-filled balloons from the Meteorology department to lift the detector, preamplifier and cable. This work occupied much of the Winter and Spring of 1950-51. Cook wrote a careful thesis of over 100 pages, with 29 figures, which wife Vi typed in 3 copies, and was approved by the Committee.\n\nCook continued teaching, including developing a new course in Oil Well Logging methods (electric resistivity, self-potential, gamma-ray, neutron, sonic velocity, etc.), which he taught to about 20 Geophysics seniors. He also tried to invent a gravity gradiometer for rock-density logging, however his first model using mercury and oil columns in glass tubes, showed the obvious fact that any ROTATION is equivalent to a gravity gradient, and a stabilized mounting is required. So Cook had to give up on this for an indefinite time.\n\nIn 1951 Cook was the first PhD in Geophysics to graduate from Penn State University. By this time he had produced three articles which challenged existing thinking of the time, \"\"Laboratory Tests of Electrolog Resistivity Interpretation\", \"Characteristics of Reservoir Models by Resistivity Logging\", and \"Can Gravity Be Abolished?\". His doctoral dissertation, \"An Analysis of Airborne Surveying for Surface Radioactivity\"\", was also published in the primary journal for the field, Geophysics.\n\nHis education nearly complete, Cook wrote letters offering his services to several oil companies and other labs (the natural employers of geophysicists) located in the subtropical Southwest, as wife Vi needed warmer climate. He received five invitations to interviews in the Spring of 1951.\n\nIn Tulsa at the Stanolind Oil Co. where Dr. Pirson worked, Cook got on well with Dr. Dan Silverman (Chief Geophysicist), but inexplicably never got a formal offer from them. In Dallas the Magnolia Petroleum Co. gave him a thorough day-long visit with several lab heads, and later made the largest offer of $525/month. In Houston, the Texaco lab did a superficial interview and offered $450/month. At the impressive Shell Oil Co. lab near Houston, the interviewer posed a question that required thorough familiarity with the use of the binomial theorem, which Cook could not answer at that time (the interviewer was educated in Europe), so they made no offer. In San Antonio, Bill Mussen, head of Geophysics at the Southwest Research Institute (whose start-up literature Cook had seen at Penn State), showed a new organization and a fascinating project that needed him: evaluating new oil-finding inventions. They drove him to the hotel, and offered $500/month. Cook had reservations about working for Bill Mussen (\"a dapper fellow, he seemed stuffy, on a different wavelength somehow\") but accepted the job.\n\nSouthwest Research Institute (SwRI) was founded by Tom Slick, one of the heirs of a millionaire oil wildcatter, on a big ranch west of San Antonio. Tom was an idealistic young man, hoping to provide a permanent asset to the region in return for what it had given to his father. He gave the land, with a\nfew buildings, and about a million dollars for initial operations. SwRI was and is a non-profit organization like a university, but supports itself with research contracts from the government and industry.\n\nCook's initial assignment was to take over a Bulletin service, titled \"New and Unorthodox Methods of Petroleum Exploration\". This service was supported by six oil companies who received the periodic Bulletins, considered confidential and proprietary. It had been expected initially that \"new\" oil-finding methods would be referred to the Bulletin for study by client oil companies, but this happened rarely or never. So Cook sought out the unconventional techniques by following up leads from research and ads in oil and gas trade journals. He arranged to meet with proponents to see their ideas and equipment in action, traveling the Western states, and attended geophysical and oil trade conventions and exhibits. Cook became president of the San Antonio Geophysical Society for a year, and worked on the national convention of his main professional society, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG). Cook published several papers in the SEG joumal, \"Geophysics\", which proved a very good way to publish his findings relating to exploration.\n\nSome local lawyers asked SwRI for a physicist to be an 'expert witness' on an auto accident case, and Cook was appointed. He was able to discredit an opposing 'expert' because he'd misread some trigonometric tables. Cook's lawyers won, and gave him $500 for this day in court. He was asked to help in other cases, but Bill Mussen objected to this, so Cook withdrew.\n\nTo maintain his 'second profession' of teaching, Cook taught math in night school at the San Antonio College for two years, including trig, analytical geometry and calculus. The College wanted him to continue teaching there, but he felt it was at the cost of his research.\n\nIn the three years Cook operated the Bulletin service he improved the composing and printing, and he'd done major analyses of several unconventional techniques, which appeared to have some scientific basis or were being seriously considered by several oil companies. These included Surface Geochemistry, Gamma-ray Profiling, Radoil (profiles of the strength of radio waves), and Elfiex (which generated and measured sub-audio electric waves in the ground). In each of these cases, Cook not only observed field surveys by the proponents (in some cases for months), but studied all pertinent published theory and results, and sometimes did extensive model and field experiments of his own. The major conclusion Cook reached was that the ground is very difficult to 'see through' by any physical process provided by nature, and that the conventional seismic reflection method was by far the best at that time.\n\nCook found numerous variations of technique practiced by various proponents of radio-wave profiling; each man or group believed sincerely that his variation HAD produced anomalies or signals clearly correlated with deposits of oil. Such correlation was, to Cook, very hard to demonstrate. He found that in previous years, similar variations had been demonstrated in surface geochemistry and in radioactivity profiling, also with ambiguous results. He made a statistical study of the probability of finding oil, and included it in one Bulletin; it turned out that ANY method, even flipping a coin, will generally be right if it predicts \"No Oil Here\"... if you spend a fortune drilling, it will be a \"dry hole\". Then there were the practitioners of sympathetic magic, who naturally were attracted to petroleum prospecting by the hope of fantastic wealth. Most had no technical\neducation and fell under immediate suspicion through their misuse of technical terms; some written claims were laughable. One man had attached a razor blade to a coat-hangar dowsing rod \"to cut the lines of force\". Some claimed to have special, secret powers. These Cook gave a full and sympathetic hearing, and a careful performance test in the field; he found none who could perform as claimed. One\ngentleman, who styled himself \"Doctor\", had a crude diploma from a well-known mail-order diploma mill. Cook reported on them one and all, with his frank evaluation in the Bulletin, and sent each one a copy of his report on their method. This dissuaded no one; some continued to try to 'convert' him for years.\n\nAfter three years, Bill Mussen and Cook agreed that they had not found anything promising, nor were likely to, so ended the Bulletin service. Cook published a full account in \"\"Geophysics\" and issued three bound volumes to clients, containing all the issues.\n\nAs the Bulletin service was ending Mussen sold a contract to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Fort Belvoir, Va.) to develop new methods of detecting buried, non-metallic land mines. Cook was in charge of this work for the next three years. It was classified Confidential, as a military job, and Cook's Secret clearance from the RadLab was again useful. Cook developed a theory and experiment for an electric-current technique with magnetic sensing, which gave trouble. He also developed a thermal radiation method and did lengthy tests with a flake-thermistor detector, the best far-infrared detector then available. He and a SwRI electronics technician (Joe Wormser) tried acoustic/seismic methods, and evolved one technique that was fairly promising. They continued to improve instruments and techniques over the years, but could never defeat the many 'false anomalies' produced by variations of tilt and height of the detector, and by inhomogeneities naturally present in the ground. Eighteen years later their reports were declassified, and Cook published a research paper.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37072839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37072839", "title": "Jolyon Rubinstein", "text": "Jolyon Rubinstein\n\nJolyon Rubinstein is a British actor, writer, producer and director. He is best known for writing and performing on \"The Revolution Will Be Televised\", a show on BBC Three, alongside Heydon Prowse.\n\nHe acted in a popular political viral video in the run up to the 2010 general election with over 200,000 hits on YouTube and Yahoo before polling day.\n\nRubinstein was educated at the independent King Alfred School, London, University of the Arts London, the University of Sussex and the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He graduated from the University of the Arts London with an MA in Performance and from the University of Sussex with a BA in Politics and International Relations.\n\nRubinstein's first professional acting job was that of the PR in the TV series \"Nathan Barley\". After producing for a number of years, Rubinstein and Heydon Prowse got together to direct and act for a number of films for Don't Panic Online. They both wrote and acted for their BBC Three television show \"The Revolution Will Be Televised\". He also wrote for the Financial Times Business and Yahoo. His first video was 'Fishing for Bankers' for the Don't Panic website where he and Prowse put a £5 note on the pavement and pulled it away with a fishing line when a banker leant over to pick it up.\n\nRubinstein has known Heydon Prowse since he was eight years old. They studied together at the University of Sussex.\n\n"}
{"id": "23626646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23626646", "title": "Kata'ib Hezbollah", "text": "Kata'ib Hezbollah\n\nKata'ib Hezbollah (, Brigades of the Party of God) or Hezbollah Brigades is an Iraqi Shia paramilitary group that is supported by Iran. It has been active in the ongoing Iraqi Civil War and the Syrian Civil War. During the Iraq War, the group fought against American invasion forces.\n\nThe group's structure is secretive, but Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, an adviser to Iran's Quds Force and former Badr Organization member, is known to be a senior figure in the group. The group receives training and funding from the Quds Force. The US State department also claimed Lebanon-based Hezbollah provided weapons and training for the group. It came to prominence in 2007 for attacks against American and coalition forces, and was known for uploading its videos of attacks on American forces on the internet.\n\nIn Summer 2008 US and Iraqi Forces launched a crackdown against Kata'ib Hezbollah and the \"Special Groups\", the US military term for Iran-backed militias in Iraq. At least 30 of its members were captured during those months. Many of the group's leaders were captured and US officials claimed that \"as result much of the leadership fled to Iran\".\n\nOn 2 July 2009 the group was added to the U.S. State Department list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations. The group was held responsible for numerous IED bombings, mortar, rocket and RPG attacks as well as sniper operations, targeting US and Iraqi Forces and the Green Zone, including a November 2008 rocket attack that killed two U.N. workers.\n\nIn December, 2009, the group intercepted the unencrypted video feed of MQ-1 Predator UAVs above Iraq.\n\n12 February 2010 a firefight with suspected members of Kata'ib Hezbollah occurred southeast of Baghdad in a village near the Iranian border, the U.S. military said. Twelve people were arrested, it said. \"The joint security team was fired upon by individuals dispersed in multiple residential buildings ... members of the security team returned fire, killing individuals assessed to be enemy combatants,\" the military said in a statement. The Provincial Iraqi officials said many of the dead were innocent bystanders, and demanded compensation. They said eight people were killed.\n\nOn 13 July 2010 General Ray Odierno named Kata'ib Hezbollah as being behind threats against American bases in Iraq. \"In the last couple weeks there's been an increased threat ... and so we've increased our security on some of our bases,\" Odierno told reporters at a briefing in Baghdad.\n\nIn July 2011, an Iraqi intelligence official estimated the group's size at 1,000 fighters and said the militants were paid between $300 to $500 per month.\n\nIn 2013 Kata'ib Hezbollah and other Iraqi Shia militias acknowledged sending fighters to Syria to fight alongside forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, against the Sunni rebels seeking to overthrow him in the Syrian Civil War.\n\nWathiq al-Batat, a former Kata'ib Hezbollah leader, announced the creation of a new Shia militia, the Mukhtar Army, on 4 February 2013, saying its aim is to defend Shiites and help the government combat terrorism.\n\nIn 2014 the group began taking a role in the fight against ISIL in Iraq. Also in 2014, they and six other predominantly Shia Iraqi paramilitary groups formed the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF). Since October 2016, Kata'ib Hezbollah along with the Iraqi army and other PMF has taken part in the Battle of Mosul against ISIL. They have been, alongside other PMF, active in fighting around Tal Afar, severing ISIL's link from Mosul and Tal Afar to the rest of their territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52576216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52576216", "title": "Le Cri de Paris", "text": "Le Cri de Paris\n\nLe Cri de Paris is an illustrated French political magazine that was founded by Alexandre Natanson in 1897 and was at the beginning a supplement of \"La Revue Blanche\".\n\n\"Le Cri de Paris\" title means \"The Paris Protest\" in English, but it has in French two other meanings like \"Paris Fashion\" (as in « \"le dernier cri\" », \"chic\", etc.) and \"cri\" as in \"cris de Paris\", i.e. the street cries. This ambiguous title was forged by Félix Fénéon.\n\nThe magazine covered news, political articles and satire. Juan Gris was one of its illustrators. It featured pro-Dreyfus and anti-colonialist drawings by Hermann Paul and Ibels. The magazine was subject to frequent censorship. \"Le Cri de Paris\" ceased publication in 1940.\n"}
{"id": "212076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212076", "title": "List of U.S. government and military acronyms", "text": "List of U.S. government and military acronyms\n\nList of initialisms, acronyms (\"words made from parts of other words, pronounceable\"), and other abbreviations used by the government and the military of the United States. Note that this list is intended to be specific to the United States government and military—other nations will have their own acronyms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6771479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771479", "title": "List of hereditary monarchies", "text": "List of hereditary monarchies\n\nA hereditary monarchy is the most common style of monarchy and is the form that is used by almost all of the world's existing monarchies.\n\nUnder a hereditary monarchy, all the monarchs come from the same family, and the crown is passed down from one member to another member of the family. The hereditary system has the advantages of stability, continuity and predictability, as well as the internal stabilizing factors of family affection and loyalty.\n\nThe following list is a list of hereditary monarchies and their current () monarchs.\n\nNOTE: The table comprises some sovereign monarchs of the world today, but is incomplete.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36066321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36066321", "title": "List of titles used by dictators", "text": "List of titles used by dictators\n\nThis is a list of titles used by authoritarian political leaders. Various authoritarian political leaders in various official positions assumed, formally or not, similar titles suggesting the power to speak for the nation itself. Most commonly the title is a form of \"leader\" or \"guide\", such as \"Maximum Leader\". See dictatorship.\n\nSome of the titles used by dictators before World War II were:\n\n\nSuch titles used by heads of state and/or government during the Second World War include:\n\nOther 'leaders' of contemporary political groups who never achieved power:\n\nIn areas occupied by the Axis powers, some states or ethnic-cultural communities aspiring to national self-determination found they were not handed real power by their victorious German allies as they had hoped. Their nationalist leaders, too weak to gain control independently, were simply used as pawns.\n\nSuch Nazi collaborators include \"De Leider\" \"leader\" Staf De Clercq of the VNV (Flemish National League) in Flanders (the Dutch-speaking northern majority of Belgium), who had dreamed of a 'Diets' nation uniting Flanders, the Netherlands and \"Frans-Vlaanderen\" (the French part of historic Flanders, united with Belgium into one military occupation zone and \"Reichskommissariat\"). Even when the Germans decided in December 1944, after the allied breakthrough, to carve up Belgium, leaving only bicultural capital Brussels under the Reichskommissar, the post of \"Landsleider van het Vlaamsche Volk\" ('Land leader of the Flemish people') of the new \"Reichsgau\" (integral 'Germanic' part of the Reich, in this case merely on paper) (Flandern, \"Vlaanderen\" in Dutch; capital Anwerp) went to another collaborating party, Devlag, in the person of Jef Van de Wiele (1902–1979), 15 December 1944 – 1945, in exile in Germany as the Allies controlled all Belgium since September 1944; meanwhile in the Francophone south of Belgium, partially reconquered by German troops (December 1944 – January 1945), the equivalent post of \"Chef du Peuple Wallon\" ('Leader of the Walloon People'), at the head of the \"Reichsgau Wallonien\", went to Léon Degrelle (in exile in Germany) of the Belgicist Rex Party.\n\nIn the postwar era, dictatorship became a frequent feature of military government, especially in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. In the case of many African or Asian former colonies, after achieving their independence in the postwar wave of decolonization, presidential regimes were gradually transformed into personal dictatorships. These regimes often proved unstable, with the personalization of power in the hands of the dictator and his associates, making the political system uncertain.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Cuba and the USSR managed to expand or maintain their influence zones by financing paramilitary and political groups and encouraging coups d'état, especially in Africa, that have led many countries to brutal civil wars and consequent manifestations of authoritarianism. In Latin America the threat of either communism or capitalism was often used as justification for dictatorship.\n\n"}
{"id": "31829605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31829605", "title": "Minister for Parliamentary Business and Veterans", "text": "Minister for Parliamentary Business and Veterans\n\nThe Minister for Parliamentary Business is a junior ministerial post in the Scottish Government whose job it is to steer government business through the Scottish Parliament. It is currently held by Graeme Dey of the Scottish National Party. Dey also holds ministerial responsibility for military veterans, making the full title of the post Minister for Parliamentary Business and Veterans. The minister does not attend cabinet, but supports the Cabinet Secretary for Government Business and Constitutional Relations, who is a full member of the cabinet.\n\nThe post was originally created in May 1999 as Chief Whip and Government Business Manager as a cabinet position in the Labour Liberal Scottish Executive along with the junior Deputy Business Manager, both positions where renamed after a few weeks to the Minister for Parliament and Deputy Minister for Parliament respectively. The posts where renamed again in November 2001 to Minister for Parliamentary Business and Deputy Minister for Parliamentary Business following the election of Jack McConnell as First Minister. The a cabinet post was downgrade to that of a junior minister reporting to the First Minister following the election of an SNP minority government in May 2007. The post remained a junior one until the May 2011 general election after which a new cabinet post of Cabinet Secretary for Parliamentary Business and Government Strategy was established with the Minister for Parliamentary Business and Chief Whip reporting to it, this set up remained in place until a government reshuffle in September 2012 saw the cabinet post abolished with responsibility of Government Strategy being given to the Deputy First Minister, and the post of Minister for Parliamentary Business being re-established reporting to both First Minister and Deputy First Minister.\n\nThis changed in the reshuffle announced on 21 November 2014, with Joe FitzPatrick reporting directly to Deputy First Minister of Scotland, John Swinney. In the June 2018 reshuffle cabinet level responsibility for parliamentary business was assigned to the Cabinet Secretary for Government Business and Constitutional Relations, who is supported by the Minister for Parliamentary Business and Veterans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3740748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3740748", "title": "Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois", "text": "Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois\n\nFounded in 1947, the Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois (MNQ) is a federation that groups together the various patriotic organizations in Quebec, Canada. Its membership includes 19 National Societies (\"Sociétés nationales\") and Saint-Jean-Baptiste Societies (SSJB) throughout all of Quebec.\n\nIts stated mission is to \"promote and defend the French language and national pride\". Since 1984, the MNQ is responsible for coordinating the festivities for Quebec's national holiday on June 24. The current president is Martine Desjardins.\n\nFollowing the Estates General of French Canada, whose preparation began in 1964 and occurred between 1967 and 1969, the MNQ took a stance in favour of an independent Quebec and gave itself the mission to promote:\n\n\nIt was founded by nine SSJB branches. It has 19 affiliated societies:\n\n\nIn 1947, nine of Quebec's SSJB (those of Sherbrooke, Trois-Rivières, Quebec City, Rimouski, Saint-Hyacinthe, Nicolet, Hull, Saint-Jean and Chicoutimi), formed the \"Fédération des Sociétés Saint-Jean-Baptiste du Québec\" during a congress in Sherbrooke. This happened not long after the start of diverging opinions among the members of the ephemeral federation (1945–1946), whose members counted all the SSJB of Quebec and Ontario. In spite of this failure, the SSJB of Quebec and Ontario continued to collaborate closely up until the 1960s.\n\nThe young Quebec federation initiated various actions and took part in the efforts for the development of Quebec which accelerated after World War II. The federation participated to the popular movement that led to the adoption of the \"fleurdelisé\" as Quebec's Flag in 1948, organized the National Conference on Education which led, in 1964, to the creation of a Quebec Ministry of Education, and helped with setting in motion the Estates General of French Canada.\n\nIn 1969, the federation's position was \"in favour of the total political sovereignty of Quebec\", affirming that sovereignty \"is an essential condition for a methodical (orderly) development of the human, physical and economic resources of the Quebec community.\"\n\nIn 1972, influenced by the secularization movement that affected all of Quebec's institutions at the time, the federation changed their name to \"Mouvement national des Québécois\" (Quebecers' National Movement). Strongly committed against institutional bilingualism and for territorial unilingualism, the MNQ was active in the political movement that opposed the \"Act to promote the French language in Quebec\" (1969) and the \"Official Language Act\" (1974) and supported the Parti Québécois's (PQ) proposed interventionist policy.\n\nThe defeat of the sovereigntist option in the Quebec referendum of 1980 consequently left the MNQ disoriented. In 1982, its office closed and dissolving the federation was discussed.\n\nIn 1984, the SSJB's 150th anniversary, the government of Quebec entrusted the MNQ with the responsibility of coordinating Quebec's national holiday festivities.\n\nIn 1991, the MNQ changed their name to \"Mouvement national des Québécoises et des Québécois\", but kept the acronym \"MNQ\". This change reflected the movement's support of feminism.\n\nIn 2007, the federation celebrated its 60th anniversary.\n\nThe MNQ leadership, along with the Bloc Québécois, impels the federal government of Canada to respect the \"Charter of the French Language\" and withdraw from the field of telecommunications as a consequence of the adoption of the motion recognizing that Quebecers form a nation within Canada by the House of Commons of Canada. It also supports PQ National Assembly member Daniel Turp's initiative to obtain a .qc country code for Quebec following the precedent of a .cat for Catalonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "723513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723513", "title": "New Slovenia", "text": "New Slovenia\n\nNew Slovenia – Christian Democrats (, NSi) is a Christian-democratic and conservative political party in Slovenia. Since 2008, it is led by Ljudmila Novak. The party was formed on 4 August 2000 following a split in the unified Slovenian People's Party and Slovene Christian Democrats (SLS+SKD). NSi is a member of the European People's Party (EPP) and in the European Parliament its MEP Lojze Peterle sits with the EPP Group. NSi won 4.88% of the vote at the early 2011 Slovenian parliamentary election on 4 December 2011, thus gaining 4 seats in the National Assembly.\n\nIn July 2000, Andrej Bajuk, by the time Prime Minister of a centre-right coalition government, and other centrist Christian democrats disagreed with the rest of the Slovenian People's Party (SLS+SKD) over the question of a new electoral system. While Bajuk wanted the National Assembly to abandon proportional representation, the SLS+SKD party voted against any changes. Therefore, Bajuk retired from the party and created New Slovenia as his Prime Ministerial vehicle. Other former members of the Slovene Christian Democrats opposed to the merger of SKD and SLS, followed the foundation appeal. In the October 2000 parliamentary election, the new party won 8.6% of the vote and eight seats. Thereupon, Bajuk resigned as Prime Minister and New Slovenia went into opposition.\n\nNew Slovenia has taken a staunchly Christian conservative position on some issues, advocating traditional social values and defending the position of the Catholic Church on moral questions. It has also been opposed to same-sex marriage and adoption by same sex couples, although it does support (and it also voted for) the current legislation, which gives certain rights to registered same sex couples.\n\nIn economic issues, it is generally liberal, but it defends a social market economy. It is a decidedly pro-European party.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2008, New Slovenia was part of the centre-right coalition led by Prime Minister Janez Janša.\n\nThe first European Parliament election with Slovenian participation in 2004 was won by New Slovenia which received 24% of the votes and secured two of the seven Slovenian seats.\n\nAt the 2008 legislative elections, the party won only 3.4% of the popular vote and did not win any seats in the 90-seat National Assembly. After the elective failure of 2008, Bajuk announced his immediate resignation and retirement from politics. Ljudmila Novak succeeded him as party president.\n\nAt the 2011 Slovenian parliamentary election on 4 December 2011, it won 4.88% of votes, thus gaining four seats in the National Assembly.\n\nIn the 2014 European election, NSi ran in a joint electoral list with the Slovenian People's Party, which received 16.56% of the vote and came in second place, returning 2 MEPs.\n\nThe party received 5.53% of the vote in the Slovenian parliamentary election on 13 July 2014, and won 5 seats in parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52315268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52315268", "title": "Newtownhamilton bombing", "text": "Newtownhamilton bombing\n\nThe Newtownhamilton bombing was a carbombing carried out by the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) on 24 June 1998 in the Armagh border village of Newtownhamilton shortly after the signing of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement by the Irish government, British government Nationalist and Unionist parties as well as parties which represented Republican and Loyalist paramilitaries. The INLA and its political wing the IRSP were opposed to the agreement. The bombing was one of the last actions carried out or claimed by the INLA during the 30-year conflict known as the Troubles\n\nThe Good Friday Agreement was signed on 10 April 1998 and was approved by most major paramilitaries on the Republican and Loyalist sides of the conflict like the Provisional IRA (PIRA) and the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) but was opposed by smaller dissident groups on each side like the Real IRA (RIRA, formed in 1997 after splitting with the PIRA), the Loyalist Volunteer Force (formed in 1996 after splitting with the UVF) and the INLA itself.\n\nThe car bomb attack took place during a time of high activity by dissident Irish Republicans especially by the Real IRA and Continuity IRA mainly in protest at the Good Friday Agreement which dissidents argued was a document of surrender to the British government, Sinn Féin argued it was a huge stepping stone to a United Ireland and that the armed struggle had gone as far as it could go and further loss of life was pointless and immoral.\n\nThe car bomb exploded in the predominantly Catholic border town of Newtownhamilton close to a polling station, injuring six people including a 15-year-old boy despite the INLA giving a 50-minute warning as police were still trying to evacuate people from the bomb area. The bomb was estimated to have weighed 200 lbs and along with the injured it caused widespread damage. The financial damage from the attack was estimated at £2 million. Police believed the Real IRA supplied the INLA with Semtex commercial explosive which was thought to have been used as a component in making the bomb. The bombing was seen as a \"protest attack\" as it happened the day before Northern Ireland Assembly Elections took place on the 25 June 1998.\n\nTwo months later on 15 August the Omagh bombing caused by the Real IRA killed almost 30 people and injured over 250 more. The shock and outrage in Ireland and Britain over the human cost of the bomb was such that the Real IRA soon called a ceasefire and so did the INLA on 22 August 1998 bringing an end to their 24-year paramilitary campaign which killed over 100 people and injured hundreds more.\nAlmost a year later on 8 August 1999 the INLA issued a statement saying: \"There is no political or moral argument to justify a resumption of the campaign.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47119053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47119053", "title": "Ni una menos", "text": "Ni una menos\n\nNi una menos (; Spanish for \"Not one [woman] less\") is an Argentine fourth-wave grassroots feminist movement, which has spread across several Latin American countries, that campaigns against gender-based violence. In its official website, \"Ni una menos\" defines itself as a \"collective cry against machista violence.\" The campaign was started by a collective of Argentine female artists, journalists and academics, and has grown into \"a continental alliance of feminist forces\". The movement regularly holds protests against femicides, but has also touched on topics such as gender roles, sexual harassment, gender pay gap, sexual objectification, legality of abortion, sex workers' rights and transgender rights. The movement has been criticized by some journalists, especially since 2017, for some of its demands, such as the freedom of Milagro Sala.\n\nThe movement became nationally recognized with the use of the hashtag #NiUnaMenos on social media, title under which massive demonstrations were held on June 3, 2015, having the Palace of the Argentine National Congress as a main meeting point. The protest was organized after the murder of 14-year-old Chiara Paez, found buried underneath her boyfriend's house on May 11, beaten to death and a few weeks pregnant. A viral phenomenon which extended to countries such as Uruguay and Chile, it managed to congregate around 200,000 people in Buenos Aires alone. On June 3, 2016 the multitudinous demonstration took place once again throughout Argentina's most important cities, under the new slogan #VivasNosQueremos (English: #WeWantUsAlive); the march was also replicated in Montevideo, Uruguay and Santiago, Chile. A #NiUnaMenos march also took place in Lima, Peru on August 13, 2016, with thousands of people gathering in front of the Palace of Justice. Newspaper \"La República\" considered it the largest demonstration in Peruvian history.\n\nOn October 19, 2016 the \"Ni una menos\" collective organized a first-ever women mass strike, in response to the murder of 16-year-old Lucía Pérez, who was raped and impaled in the coastal city of Mar del Plata. It consisted of a one-hour pause from work and study early in the afternoon, with protesters dressed in mourning for what was known as \"Miércoles negro\" (Spanish for \"Black Wednesday\"). These protests became region-wide and gave the movement a greater international momentum, with street demonstrations also taking place in Chile, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico and Spain. A week later, a protest also took place in Rio de Janeiro,\nBrazil, which has been considered \"yet another clear sign that \"Ni una menos\" has become a rallying cry for the region.\" On March 8, 2017, \"Ni una menos\" took part of the International Women's Strike. The strike was spearheaded in the United States by the leaders of the Women's March on Washington, who in a call to arms letter in \"The Guardian\" pointed to \"Ni una menos\" as an inspiration.\n\nIn 2016, Argentine scientists Julián Petrulevicius and Pedro Gutiérrez named \"Tupacsala niunamenos\", a dragonfly species found in La Rioja, after the movement. The genus \"Tupacsala\" was chosen in honor of Túpac Amaru II and Milagro Sala's organization named after him.\n\nThe collective takes its name from a 1995 phrase by Mexican poet and activist Susana Chávez, \"Ni una muerta más\" (Spanish for \"Not one more [woman] dead\"), in protest to the female homicides in Ciudad Juárez. Chávez herself was assassinated in 2011, moment in which the phrase became a \"symbol of struggle\". The first protest organized by \"Ni una menos\" was held in Recoleta, Buenos Aires on March 26, 2015, and consisted of a reading marathon, performance art and screenings; the catalyst of the event was the murder of Daiana García, found dead in a garbage bag on March 16.\n\n"}
{"id": "36963987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36963987", "title": "Nicoli Nattrass", "text": "Nicoli Nattrass\n\nNicoli Nattrass is a professor of Economics and the Director of AIDS and Society Research Unit within the Center for Social Science Research at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. Nattrass authored 55 articles published in academic journals and published five books in the areas of economic policy, the political-economy, cultural and behavioural aspects of AIDS. She is an advocate of science-based AIDS treatment in South Africa and a longtime critic of AIDS denialists. Nattrass has been very critical of Thabo Mbeki's AIDS policy in South Africa and estimated that >340,000 unnecessary AIDS deaths in South Africa between 1999 and 2007 were the result of this policy. Nattrass has subsequently investigated poverty and inequality in South Africa, and as of 2017, has focused her research on animal welfare in informal settlements - particularly, rodents in Khayelitsha.\n\nNattrass received her undergraduate and master's degrees from Stellenbosch University and University of Natal, a master's degree in development economics and a doctorate degree with a thesis on 'Wages, Profits and Apartheid' from Oxford University. She was a Rhodes Scholar in 1984.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2012, Nattrass published a number of academic articles and books to examine the history, sources, characteristics of AIDS denialism and its impact on HIV prevention and AIDS treatment.\n\nIn her award winning book \"The Moral Economy of AIDS in South Africa\", written at the height of AIDS denialism, Nattrass repudiated the South African government's claim that antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) were unaffordable. She demonstrated that by not implementing mother to child transmission prevention programs, the cost to treat sick children who acquired AIDS from their mother was greater than to prevent the tragedy from happening.\n\nNattrass estimated that Mbeki's denialist policies led to the early deaths of more than 340,000 South Africans and 171,000 infections, which she likened to 'genocide'. She attributed the slow and ineffective governmental response to the country's massive AIDS epidemic directly to the influence of the AIDS denialists.\n\nIn her 2012 article in Skeptical Inquirer and book \"The AIDS Conspiracy: Science Fights Back\", Nattrass examines the landscape of the AIDS denialist community and identifies four groups of characters: hero scientists (provide scientific credibility); cultropreneurs (promote non-evidence based, unproven alternative treatment); living icons (proof that HIV is not the cause of AIDS) and praise singers (journalists and film makers who promote the cause). She observes that they each fill their own important role in the intractable propagation of the movement and their intertwined and symbiotic relationships are established through their shared anti-science and conspiratorial stance, and beliefs in alternative medicine and treatment. Nattrass describes how pro-science activists fought back by deploying empirical evidence and giving political credibility to refute AIDS conspiracy theories, as part of the crucial project to defend evidence-based medicine and combat pseudoscience.\n\nNattrass has collaborated with the United Nation Research Institute for Social Development for which she co-authored the South African study for the project ‘Poverty Reduction and Policy Regimes’. Nattrass also was a visiting professor at Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale University.\n\n"}
{"id": "8901202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8901202", "title": "Official Secrets Act 1972", "text": "Official Secrets Act 1972\n\nThe Official Secrets Act 1972 (, abbreviated OSA), is a statute in Malaysia prohibiting the dissemination of information classified as an official secret. The legislation is based on the Official Secrets Act of the United Kingdom. After criticism of the act for lacking clarity, it was amended in 1986.\n\nThe act defines an \"official secret\" as:\n\nThe Schedule to the Act covers \"Cabinet documents, records of decisions and deliberations including those of Cabinet committees\", as well as similar documents for state executive councils. It also includes \"documents concerning national security, defence and international relations\".\n\nThe act has been criticised for ostensibly stifling dissent and reducing transparency in government workings. One statesman has suggested that the act has turned the press into \"an alternative Government Gazette\". In addition, the usage of the act to classify documents which \"cannot by any stretch of the imagination be reasonably confidential or secret\" has been criticised.\n\nThe Official Secrets Act 1972, in its current form (1 January 2006), consists of 31 sections and 1 schedule (including 9 amendments), without separate Part.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28991729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28991729", "title": "Partit per la Independència", "text": "Partit per la Independència\n\nPartit per la Independència (PI; ) was a short lived political party in Catalonia of the 1990s that campaigned for independence for Catalonia from Spain. It was created by Àngel Colom and Pilar Rahola in 1996 as a schism from Republican Left of Catalonia, another independentist party. After the meager electoral results in municipal elections in 1999, particularly in Barcelona city where Rahola was candidate, Partit per la Independència was dissolved. Afterwards, Colom and most of the party direction integrated into Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya. Joan Laporta, later president of Futbol Club Barcelona, was member of PI.\n"}
{"id": "21356347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356347", "title": "Political funding in the United Kingdom", "text": "Political funding in the United Kingdom\n\nPolitical funding in the United Kingdom has been a source of controversy for many years. Political parties in the UK may be funded through membership fees, party donations or through state funding, the latter of which is reserved for administrative costs. The general restrictions in the UK were held in \"Bowman v United Kingdom\" to be fully compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights, article 10.\n\nWhen the UK passed the Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883, this was the first effort ever to regulate the financial dimension of political competition. Although this landmark legislation was concerned with constituency candidates, their campaign expenses and their agents only, all other efforts to create a political finance regime started from here.\n\nThe next legislative step to deal with the subject was the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act 1925 that sought to end the selling of titles in exchange for donations to political parties.\n\nIn August 1976 the Committee on Financial Aid to Political Parties, chaired by Lord Houghton of Sowerby, proposed that financial aid to political parties should be given in two forms:\n(a) general grants to the central organisations for their general purposes and \n(b) a limited reimbursement of election expenses to parliamentary and local government candidates.\n\nStarting in 2006, political funding came under scrutiny as concerns grew that the largest British political parties were too dependent on a handful of wealthy donors. Furthermore, during the Cash for Honours scandal, concern grew even more. A concern of the 1970s had been that the major parties were unable to raise sufficient funds to operate successfully.\n\nThe Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (PPERA) was an act that established the Electoral Commission and required all political parties to register with it, set down accounting requirements for political parties, and introduced controls on donations.\n\nIn March 2006, former civil servant Sir Hayden Phillips was charged with setting up an inquiry to come up with proposal for reform. It reported a year later. He recommended capping individual donations at £50,000 and capping spending for political campaigns. He also suggested increasing state funding by £25m and expanding its reach.\n\nIn June 2008, the Ministry of Justice released a white paper analyzing party finance and expenditure. The paper proposed to tighten controls on spending by parties and candidates, substantially strengthen the powers of the Electoral Commission, and increase the transparency of donations.\n\nIn November 2011 the Committee on Standards on Public Life, chaired by Sir Christopher Kelly, published a Report on \"Political Party Finance. Ending the big donor culture\". It is their 13th report, Cm. 8208. The report made five main recommendations: (a) Contribution limit of GBP10,000 per donor, party and year; (b) this limit should not apply to affiliated trade union affiliation fees if such fees are raised by an \"opt in\"; (c) existing limits for campaign spending should be cut by about 15 per cent; (d) in addition to the present \"policy development grant\" eligible parties should be granted public funding at the rate of GBP3.00 per vote in Westminster elections and GBP 1.50 per vote in devolved and European elections; (e) income tax relief should be available for donations up to GBP 1,000 and membership fees to political parties.\n\nMembership subscriptions (\"subs\") provide one source of funding for political parties. However, in recent times membership has declined and campaign costs have grown.\n\nThe Green Party is the only major political party in the UK which receives the majority of its funding through membership fees and these are what cover the running costs of the organisation. Membership subs have become a more significant source in income for both the SNP and Labour in recent years, as both have seen substantial increases in membership\n\nThe Conservative Party relies on donations mostly from individuals and companies; as well as these sources the Labour Party receives a significant portion of its donations from trade unions. For example, in the third quarter of 2009, eighteen political parties reported donations totalling £9,532,598 (excluding public funds). The Conservative Party received £5,269,186, the Labour party received £3,045,377 and the Liberal Democrats received £816,663. Donations typically peak before elections. Between the 6th of April and the 6th of May 2010 (a general election campaign month) the Conservatives took £7,317,602, Labour £5,283,199 and the Liberal Democrats £724,000.\n\nOpposition parties receive state funding to pay administration cost; Short Money in the House of Commons starting in 1975, and Cranborne Money in the House of Lords starting in 1996.\n\nIn addition there is a general policy development grant available to parties with two MPs or one MP and one MEP.\n\nDonations worth over £7,500 to national parties must be declared, as must be donations worth £1,500 or more to local associations. Donations to members' associations – groups whose members are primarily or entirely members of a single political party – also need to be declared above £7,500. This produces a loophole where donors can donate larger sums to local candidates while remaining anonymous, by channeling those donations through a members' association such as the United and Cecil Club.\n\nFor a while, as a loophole, loans did not have to be declared.\n\nNorthern Ireland political parties are exempt from revealing the identity of party donors due to security reasons. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24362057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362057", "title": "Pracheachon", "text": "Pracheachon\n\nThe Krom Pracheachon (, \"People's Group\"), often referred to simply as Pracheachon, was a Cambodian political party that contested in parliamentary elections in 1955, 1958 and 1972.\n\nFor much of its existence the party was a legal front organisation for the clandestine Communist Party of Kampuchea.\n\nThe Pracheachon came into existence as a result of the Geneva Accords of 1954. This guaranteed Cambodia's independence and neutrality, with parliamentary elections to be held the following year. Many of the Cambodians fighting for independence (notably members of the United Issarak Front) had been associated with the Viet Minh, who now agreed to withdraw their units from Cambodia: a large number of Khmer leftists, led by veteran Issarak Son Ngoc Minh, departed for Hanoi, where they were to remain for the next twenty years.\n\nThose leftists who remained were encouraged to form a legal political party to contest elections: this was the Krom Pracheachon, which had a socialist platform. The Communist Party itself (led by Tou Samouth and Sieu Heng, and including later prominent figures such as Saloth Sar (Pol Pot) and Ieng Sary) continued as a purely clandestine organisation.\n\nThe Pracheachon was led by Non Suon, Keo Meas and Penn Yuth, all former Issaraks. It adopted the symbol of a plough.\n\nThe Cambodian elections of 1955 were the first in which the Krom Pracheachon took part. Due to severe harassment of its members by forces loyal to the Sangkum party of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, the Pracheachon was able to field only 35 candidates, winning 31,034 votes in total and gaining no seats.\n\nAccording to the historian Ben Kiernan, Sihanouk later appeared to admit that many districts had in fact voted for socialist candidates, even when the official result showed them receiving few or no votes.\n\nIn the period before the 1958 election, Sihanouk appeared deeply concerned with the possibility of Viet Minh / North Vietnamese domination of Cambodia. To coincide with the election, he published a series of articles tracing the history of Cambodian communism: though the articles were perceptive in their analysis of communist tactics, they stressed the leftists' links with Vietnam and presented them as a threat to the Cambodian nation. Pressure on the Pracheachon was increased by posters showing buildings and trains destroyed by the Viet Minh, and slogans such as \"The Pracheachon ruins the nation and sells the country to foreigners\" and \"The Pracheachon is not part of the Sangkum\" appeared on walls and banners.\n\nIn the election itself, the Pracheachon managed to field only 5 candidates: 4 of these were to withdraw following police harassment, leaving only Keo Meas himself, who officially received 396 votes. Meas was forced to sit out the election from a safe haven on the Vietnamese border, fearing arrest.\n\nThe Krom Pracheachon was again subject to repressive measures (ostensibly for reasons of \"security\") in the run-up to the 1962 elections, in which its members hoped to participate.\n\nSihanouk's police arrested 14 of its remaining members, including Secretary-General Non Suon; they were charged with possessing documents incriminating them in seeking the overthrow of the Sangkum regime by North Vietnam. They were initially sentenced to death by a military court, with the sentences later being commuted to life imprisonment. The Pracheachon dissolved, and many of the remaining leftists fled Phnom Penh for the forests, with the exception of several prominent figures (Khieu Samphan, Hou Yuon and Hu Nim) who had joined the Sangkum. At around this time Communist leader Tou Samouth disappeared; Saloth Sar assumed the clandestine Party's leadership.\n\nFollowing Lon Nol's expulsion of Sihanouk in the Cambodian coup of 1970 and the subsequent declaration of the Khmer Republic, the Pracheachon was resurrected, and fielded some candidates against Nol's Socio-Republican Party in the 1972 elections.\n\nIt was initially expected that its leader would be the leftist Hang Thun Hak; Hak instead joined the PSR, and Penn Yuth emerged as its leader. Yuth, now an officer in the Khmer National Armed Forces was however by this time a close associate of Lon Nol, and it was widely thought that the Pracheachon had been reorganised by Nol's brother Lon Non specifically to provide a 'token' opposition to the PSR. Figures associated with the Pracheachon in this period included Saloth Chhay, a left-wing journalist who was the brother of Pol Pot (Saloth Sar). All seats in the elections were won by the Socio-Republican Party.\n"}
{"id": "27586451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27586451", "title": "R v Basi", "text": "R v Basi\n\nR v Basi is a landmark decision by Supreme Court of Canada where the Court weighed the rights of the defendant versus the privileges of an informant in an important trial into alleged government corruption.\n\nThree employees of the provincial government of British Columbia were charged with corruption and breach of trust following the BC Legislature Raids.\n\nOn Dec. 6, 2007, British Columbia Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Bennett ruled against a pre-trial Crown request to exclude defence lawyers from an in-camera hearing on information involving a police informant.\n\nThe British Columbia Court of Appeal split 2-1 in upholding the trial judge's decision. This allowed the defendants' lawyers to be present during a hearing regarding disclosure of documents to the defence that involved a police informant.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada heard the appeal on April 22, 2009. Intervenors were the Director of Public Prosecutions of Canada, Attorney General of Ontario, Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police and Criminal Lawyers’ Association (Ontario).\n\nThe unanimous judgment was written by Fish J.\n\nThe Court found that where a hearing is required to determine a claim of informer privilege, the hearing must be held ex parte, without the defendant or their counsel present, but only if it is required to keep the informer's identity confidential. The hearing should only be held \"ex parte\" as necessary. Trial judges should adopt all reasonable measures to permit defence counsel to make meaningful submissions regarding what occurs in their absence. Trial judges have broad discretion to craft appropriate procedures in this regard.\n\nThe court went on to suggest various methods trial judges may adopt to limit the unfairness to a defendant.\n\n"}
{"id": "36832883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36832883", "title": "Shayfeencom", "text": "Shayfeencom\n\nShayfeencom (Egyptian Arabic: \"We are watching you\") is an initiative that started with three Egyptian women (a prominent TV newscaster, a university professor, and a marketing consultant) to help bring political reform and democracy to Egypt.\n\nShayfeencom is a popular movement, working on monitoring the legality and integrity of the presidential and parliamentary elections in Egypt through the participation of the public. The movement aims to end corruption in the governmental and non-governmental institutions through public monitoring, and aims to educate the public to increase awareness of the principles of democracy.\n\nShayfeencom was officially established in 2005 by a group of non-politically oriented individuals, and started its first monitoring and observation experience in Egypt's first multi-candidate presidential elections. Within the first month of launching the initiative, 5,000 people volunteered and joined online, and over 1,000 volunteers actively participated in monitoring elections. Today, the movement includes over 10 founding members, and thousands of regular members.\n\nShayfeencom is a nonprofit organization, without political or economic ideologies; all financing to the movement is done through Egyptian individuals.\n\nShayfeencom has three primary goals: to end corruption in all public and private institutions through public monitoring, to enable the citizens as key fighters against corruption, and to attain electoral and judicial reform.\n\nThe main focuses are on:\n\nShayfeencom uses its large membership database, all types of social media, and a hotline to receive reports of corruption in the country; it then files a case against the specified party. If the party does not respond, Shayfeencom uses the media to expose what has occurred; they might also carry out sit-ins and other demonstrations.\n\nIn 2007, documentary film director Jehane Noujaim (with Sherief El Katsha) broadcast the film \"Shayfeen.com\", which was a part of the \"Why Democracy?\" project.\n\nOriginally, the movement was founded by three women. It was ended by the Mubarak regime, but after the ousting of Mubarak in 2011, Shayfeencom was re-established by new members.\n\nShayfeencom's membership is in the tens of thousands, but due to fear of political persecution, they have been discreet when pursuing official figures and have created a privacy policy which does not allow them to share other members' names.\n\nShayfeencom began in 2005, after President Hosni Mubarak announced that for the first time in 24 years, elections would allow for multiparty participation; this sparked demonstrations by Egyptians who denounced this move as a sham. When the government responded with a violent crackdown, Bothaina Kamel, Ghada Shahbandar, and Engi El-Haddad formed Shayfeencom.\n\nFor the 2005 elections, Shayfeencom armed supporters with video cameras and sent them to polling stations around the country to monitor the elections and document the political process. Supporters witnessed electoral fraud and voter intimidation. When Muslim Brotherhood candidates made a good showing in the first round of voting, security forces barred voters from entering the polls for the second round. By the third round, voters' frustrations incited violent clashes between protesters and police.\n\nAlthough discouraged by a voter turnout of only 30%, the Shayfeencom leaders were heartened by the willingness of two judges to investigate election fraud carried out by eighteen of their colleagues. The judges found evidence of fraud, and Shayfeencom began rallying support for an independent judiciary. In spite of the prohibition against assemblies of more than five people, crowds gathered outside the Egyptian Judges' Club to show their support. Many in the crowd were arrested and beaten, including Judge Mahmoud Hamza. The three founders of Shayfeencom produced a short film, aired on BBC, about the plight of the judiciary. They encouraged the public to use all the technology at their disposal—radio, plasma screens, and the Internet—to support the May 25, 2006 \"Judges' March for an Independent Judiciary\".\n\nThe march and demonstration resulted in the arrests of thousands of civilians, who remained in prison for months. Though faced by a lack of money and failure to achieve earlier objectives, Shayfeencom continued its work. Co-founder Engi El-Haddad spoke to a group of world leaders (including former president George W. Bush) at the UN, describing the lack of political freedom in Egypt. In spring of 2007, Shayfeencom mounted a campaign against the government's proposed 34 constitutional amendments that would write parts of the Emergency Law into the Constitution.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Egyptian revolution, Shayfeencom was re-established, with dramatically changed methods. They began preparing for the first Egyptian presidential elections months before it was announced, collecting thousands of volunteers from across Egypt and training them through YouTube videos and online seminars.\n\nMembers of the public watched for electoral irregularities and called a hotline to report them. Reports also came in through Twitter and Facebook. Alleged violations would immediately appear on Shayfeencom's website; a few minutes later, official monitors would either confirm or deny the reports. Two days into the first phase of Egypt's presidential elections, Shayfeencom received reports of over 1,000 violations throughout the country.\n\nShayfeencom remains as a watchdog, anti-corruption movement.\n\nShayfeencom opened its first board of trustees in Port Said following the Port Said Stadium riot in April 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "56412583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56412583", "title": "Stop the War in Croatia", "text": "Stop the War in Croatia\n\n\"Stop the War in Croatia\" () is a Croatian anti-war and peace song from 1991. It was written by the Croatian pop singer, songwriter and politician Tomislav Ivčić. For several weeks in 1991, the song was listed among Billboard's 100 most popular records.\n\nCroatian Radiotelevision broadcast the song for first time on August 12, 1991, and the following day it was played by the BBC, CNN and 44 other broadcasters. Hundreds of news reports and cover pages followed. \"Stop the War in Croatia\" received global air-time. In Australia, the song got to the top of the 10 most listened to songs.\n\n\"Stop the War in Croatia\" caught the eye of many celebrities including Phil Collins, who asked people \"to give as much as they could to help the children in Croatia\". According to Croatian Radiotelevision, the song helped promote the cause of Croatian independence on the global stage, leading to its international recognition.\n"}
{"id": "4691907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4691907", "title": "Summi Pontificatus", "text": "Summi Pontificatus\n\nSummi Pontificatus is an encyclical of Pope Pius XII published on 20 October 1939. The encyclical is subtitled \"On the Unity of Human Society.\" It was the first encyclical of Pius XII and was seen as setting \"a tone\" for his papacy. It critiques major errors at the time, such as ideologies of racism, cultural superiority and the totalitarian state. It also sets the theological framework for future encyclical letters, such as \"Mystici corporis Christi\" (1943). The encyclical laments the destruction of Poland, denounces the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and calls for a restoration of independent Poland.\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\" sees Christianity being universalized and opposed to racial hostility and superiority. There are no racial differences, because the human race forms a unity, because \"one ancestor [Adam] made all nations to inhabit the whole earth\".\n\n\nThis divine law of solidarity and charity assures that all men are truly brethren, without excluding the rich variety of persons, cultures and societies.\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\" teaches, that superior and inferior cultures do not exist and that different levels of development within and between nations are source for enrichment of the human race. \n\nBecause of their common origin and their ensuing equality, solidarity and charity are mandatory for all people. The principle of solidarity, which can be articulated in terms of \"friendship\" or \"social charity,\" is a direct demand of human and Christian brotherhood.\n\n\nForgetfulness of the law of universal charity may lead to conflict and war. Charity alone can create and consolidate peace by extinguishing hatred and softening envies and dissensions in the relations between nations.\n\nIn what most saw as a rejection of totalitarianism, \"Summi Pontificatus\" rejected the idea of the state as \"something ultimate to which everything else should be subordinated\":\n\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\" goes on to show that unlimited state authority is a menace to the prosperity of nations, to the family and to education.\n\nFurther, the unlimited authority of the state would present a danger to the primary and essential cell of society, the family, which in a totalitarian system would be viewed from the narrow standpoint of national power. That is contrary to Church teaching, which holds that the family has priority before the state:\n\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\" holds that in that case education would aim at \"a one-sided formation of those civic virtues that are considered necessary for attaining political success, while the virtues which give society the fragrance of nobility, humanity and reverence would be inculcated less, for fear they should detract from the pride of the citizen.\" This would \"bear most bitter fruits\". The encyclical concedes that formation should prepare the youth to fulfill \"the offices of a noble patriotism which give to one's earthly fatherland all due measure of love, self-devotion and service\", it adds that \"a formation which forgot or, worse still, deliberately neglected to direct the eyes and hearts of youth to the heavenly country would be an injustice\".\n\nThe principles of natural and international law are not an option but indispensable, because the totalitarian state is a threat to peace:\n\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\", in line with the theological and non-political nature of Papal encyclicals of the past, does not mention explicitly definite names or countries, as many of his accusations against racism, racial segregation superiority and exploitation are far-reaching and of a moral nature. An exception is the fate of occupied Poland. For its specific criticism of the attack and occupation of Poland the encyclical was lauded by the western Allies, and Polish refugees outside Nazi and Soviet control likewise approved of the pope's call for restoration of an independent Polish state. \n\n\n\"Summi Pontificatus\" incorporates elements of the draft for an encyclical, \"Humani generis unitas\", against racism and anti-semitism, prepared by several Jesuits for their Father General. Pope Pius XI was editing and putting the finishing touches on it when he died in February 1939, and his successor, Pope Pius XII, subsequently choose not to publish it, possibly in light of strong anti-Judaic or anti-rabbinic language in parts of it, which could be misunderstood by the faithful or perverted by pro-Axis media. Some 50 years later, this created some controversy, as to whether the new Pope should have published, without changes or additions, the draft of an encyclical letter presented for his predecessor's consideration.\n\nContemporaneous reactions to \"Summi Pontificatus\" were strong. While some Nazis played it down, Von Bergen, the German ambassador to the Vatican, said: \"Pope Pius wanted to hit with this encyclical primarily the Third Reich.\" The Catholic League (U.S.) stated that the Gestapo considered the encyclical an attack. The British and French authorities at war with Germany welcomed it and the French had copies printed and dropped by air over Germany. Germany stopped its printing and distribution and the Gestapo ordered enquiries into people who read or tried to distribute it. \"The New York Times\" published the encyclical on 28 October 1939 under the headline: \"Dictators, Treaty-Breaking and Racism are Condemned by the Pope in his First Encyclical\" writing: \"A powerful attack on totalitarianism and the evils which he considers it has brought upon the world was made by Pope Pius XII in his first encyclical…It is Germany that stands condemned above any country or any movement in this encyclical-the Germany of Hitler and National Socialism.\"\n\nThe American media, without grasping potential implications for domestic race relations, welcomed the decisive positions of the new Pope. More important, devout Catholic that he (Pope Pius XII) was, he knew which side he was for, and unlike Benedict XV during World War I, said so.\n\nIt certainly did the Allies no harm when 61,000,000 German and Polish Catholics were told by the leader of their religion that \"the idea which credits the State with unlimited authority\" was abhorrent to him. \"To consider the State as something ultimate to which everything else should be subordinated and directed cannot fail to harm the true and lasting prosperity of nations,\" read the Encyclical. Again, the Pontiff wrote that the totalitarian system of government was an idea which \"robs the law of nations of its foundation and vigor, leads to violation of others' rights and impedes agreement and peaceful intercourse\".\n\nThe encyclical letter had little or no political impact at the time. But \"Summi Pontificatus\" also predicted an ultimate victory against the enemies of the Church. \"Her adversary can never prevail: The gates of hell shall not prevail, nor can they ever weaken her\" \n\nTheologically, the often quoted rationale about the unity of human society and diversity of cultures, is a part of the Magisterium of the Catholic Church and quoted in numerous Church documents. \"Summi Pontificatus\", despite of its lack of \"political success\" remains thus one of the more influential theological encyclicals of Pope Pius XII.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40718975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40718975", "title": "The Irregular at Magic High School", "text": "The Irregular at Magic High School\n\nThe story takes place in an alternate history where magic exists and is polished through modern technology. It follows Tatsuya and Miyuki Shiba, siblings who enroll into First High magic high school. While keeping their connections to the infamous Yotsuba clan secret, they attempt to live their daily life in peace where Tatsuya is shunned for his apparent ineptness and Miyuki is validated for her magical abilities.\n\nThe series has been well received. The light novels appeared on Sugoi Japan's 2015 polls and since 2011, is one of the top selling series in Japan with 7.7 million copies sold as of 2017. In addition, its manga and anime adaptations also appeared on top selling charts. English reviewers had mixed to negative reception towards the anime adaptation. The complex technicality of magic within the series was received warmly but the exposition was criticized for being heavy, unclear, and poorly executed.\n\nThe series is set in a world with an alternate history, where magic exists and has been polished through modern technology. However, the ability to use magic is determined by genetics, limiting the number of magicians in existence. Following the Third World War, the world's superpowers shifted to these four nations: The United States of North America (USNA), New Soviet Union, the Great Asian Alliance, and Japan. In Japan, the magic community is informally governed by the ten master clans in lieu of the government. Due to the limited number of magicians, they are treated as a commodity and are forced to enter magic related schools and professions. Nine magic high schools exist in Japan; they each specialize in different aspects of magic and are simply referred to by their numbers.\n\nThe story follows Tatsuya Shiba, a bodyguard to his sister Miyuki Shiba who is also a candidate to succeed the leadership of the Yotsuba clan, one of the Ten Master Clans that govern Japan's magicians. They enroll into First High School which segregates its students based on their magical abilities. Miyuki is enrolled as a first course student and is viewed as one of the best students, while Tatsuya is in the second course and considered to be magically inept. However, Tatsuya's technical knowledge, combat abilities, and unique magic techniques cause people to view him as an irregular to the school's standardized rankings.\n\nTatsuya and Miyuki are siblings of the same school year and children to Tatsurou Shiba and the late Miya Yotsuba; their parents had a loveless forced marriage, and when their mother died, their father married his mistress, Sayuri Furuha, leaving the siblings to live by themselves. Maya Yotsuba, their aunt and the current leader of the Yotsuba Clan, was the reason Tatsuya was born with the unique magic to decompose, reconstruct, and detonate matter. Out of fear of his powers, the Yotsuba Clan leadership of that time argued for Tatsuya's death, forcing Miya and Maya to take measures to ensure his survival: the first was Miyuki's creation who would act as a seal to Tatsuya's power; the second was to magically dull Tatsuya's emotions except for his familial love towards Miyuki; and the third was to assign Tatsuya to be Miyuki's bodyguard in order to develop his sense of loyalty towards her. During a family vacation in Okinawa, Tatsuya warded off an invasion by the Great Asian Alliance and joined the 101 Independent Magic-Equipped Battalion which is headed by Major Kazama Harunobu. At some point during his life Tatsuya developed an interest in engineering magical technology and commercialized revolutionary technology through his family's company, Four Leaves Technology, under the pseudonymous identity Taurus Silver. He is voiced by Yuichi Nakamura.\n\nMiyuki is considered one of the strongest magicians in the world and is a candidate to succeed her Aunt Maya as the leader of the Yotsuba Clan. Her specialty is freezing magic, and her unique magic allows her to freeze a person's consciousness. In addition, half of her magic casting ability is used to seal Tatsuya's powers. Before the family vacation in Okinawa, Miyuki treated Tatsuya coldly akin to how the other Yotsuba Clan members did. She began to warm up to him and when Tatsuya saved her life, she devoted her entire existence to him. It evolved to the point where she disdains the touch of other males and expresses jealousy towards females around Tatsuya. Genetically different from Tatsuya despite being born from the same parents, Miyuki professes her love to him following their engagement under Maya's orders. She is voiced by Saori Hayami.\n\nIn the polls by Kono Light Novel ga Sugoi!, both Tatsuya and Miyuki ranked as one of the most popular light novel characters. Outside of the franchise, Tatsuya and Miyuki also appear in \"\".\n\nTatsuya's group consists of seven classmates whom he spends time with in his daily school life. They often assist Tatsuya during investigations and dangerous situations.\n\n\nThe student council is a group of students which provides a liaison between the teachers and students. Meanwhile, the Disciplinary Committee consists of students who are essentially rule enforcers. A third committee is the Extracurricular Activities Federation who ensures that school clubs don't come into conflict with each other. The three committees are closely related and work together to preserve the peace on campus.\n\nTwo people worked alongside Mayumi during the year. The first was who was the leader of the Disciplinary Committee. Mari has a tomboyish personality but becomes completely feminine in front of her boyfriend, Chiba Naotsugu, who is also Erika's half brother. For combat, she uses a whip like blade and uses magic to manipulate chemicals. Second is , the leader of the Extracurricular Activities Federation. Katsuto is the next head of the Jumonji clan and inherited the clans barrier magic, Phalanx: an impenetrable and perpetual barrier used for defensive and offensive purposes. Both the Saegusa and Jumonji are members of the Ten Master Clans, forcing Mayumi and Katsuto to be politically involved with the magic community outside of school. Watanabe is voiced by Marina Inoue while Jumonji is voiced by Junichi Suwabe.\n\nDuring the Shiba siblings' second year, Mayumi is succeeded as student council president by , a timid and youthful looking girl. Azusa has an interest in magic engineering and suspects Tatsuya is secretly Taurus Silver. She is able to use a unique magic named after her, Azusa Dream, to forcefully pacify people. Mari is succeeded as chairman of the Disciplinary Committee by , an impulsive and good-natured girl. She is engaged to , an androgynous and timid boy, and loves him dearly. Azusa Nakajou is voiced by Saki Ogasawara, Kanon Chiyoda is voiced by Saori Onishi, and Kei Isori is voiced by Sōma Saitō.\n\n\nThe story was conceived around a protagonist whose abilities cannot be properly measured through standardized evaluation; as such, he is mistakenly categorized as a poor performing student or an irregular. This premise served as a basis for the character, Tatsuya Shiba. Satō has two processes for scripting the story arcs: the first is to create scenarios to have characters behave and interact in certain ways; the second is to plan a scene, then script the story so it leads to that scene. Satō professed that he does not feel his characters are alive or have a will of their own when scripting them.\n\nTsutomu Satō published his work on the online web novel website, Shōsetsuka ni Narō, between October 12, 2008 and March 21, 2011. At some point during his publication on Syosetu, Satō sent an original work to Dengeki Bunko under a pseudonym. The original work's setting shared similarities to \"The Irregular at Magic High School\" causing an editor to deduce his identity and offer him a publication deal. On March 11, 2011, the author announced his work is going to be published as a light novel under the Dengeki Bunko imprint. The author expressed some regret turning free content into paid commodity and cited his financial needs as the reason. The illustrations accompanying the light novels were done by Kana Ishida. The first light novel volume was unable to accommodate the first story arc; deciding against cutting content from the web novel, it was split into two volumes and released a month later. On March 9, 2015, Yen Press announced its licensing of the light novels for English localization through Twitter. Yen Press' first volume was released in April 2016.\n\n\"The Irregular at Magic High School\" had several manga adaptations with various artists and publishers; each manga adaptation covered a story arc from the original light novel series. The first adaptation was by Fumino Hayashi and Tsuna Kitaumi and covered the \"Enrollment Arc\" of the light novels. The latest manga adaptation is drawn by Yuzuki N Dash and covers the \"President Election Arc\" and is currently ongoing.\n\nA spin-off manga titled by Yu Mori premiered in \"Dengeki Daioh\"s June 2012 issue. It is currently ongoing, and was collected into seven \"tankōbon\" volumes under the Dengeki Comics Next imprint. Yen Press licensed the series' \"tankōbon\" volumes for a North American release; the first volume is localized in November 2015.\n\nAn anime adaptation of the light novel was announced during the Dengeki Bunko Fall Festival on October 6, 2013. It is directed by Manabu Ono and animated by Madhouse. It premiered on Tokyo MX, Gunma TV, and Tochigi TV on April 6, 2014; nine other networks and three streaming services broadcast the series afterwards. The final episode premiered on September 28. The individual episodes were later encapsulated into ten DVD and Blu-ray volumes released between July 2014 and April 2015.\n\nIn March 2014, Aniplex of America announced its acquisition for streaming rights to the anime series; much later they unveiled their plans to release the series into three Blu-ray volumes which segregate the episodes by story arcs. Four networks simulcasted the series with English subtitles: these include Aniplex Channel, Crunchyroll, Hulu, and Daisuki. In June 2014, the Australasia distributor, Hanabee Entertainment, announced its licensing of the series for streaming and home media release. Months later, Netflix made the series available on their network. Animax Asia also began broadcasting the series in July 2015.\n\nThree related media to the anime were created. The first is a super deformed short series titled by Aniplex. These shorts were uploaded on Aniplex's YouTube channel, and was later English subtitled and uploaded on Aniplex of America's channel. An internet radio show titled , premiered on March 23, 2014 and is hosted by Sora Amamiya and Yuiko Tatsumi, the voice actresses for Honoka Mitsui and Shizuku Kitayama respectively; the radio show episodes was later made available for purchase on CD. The third is a radio drama DVD which was released in December 2014 and is based on the light novel's \"Recollection Arc\".\n\nAn anime film called was revealed in the 19th light novel volume which was released in March 2016. The film is scripted by the series creator, Tsutomu Satō, and premiered in Japan on June 17, 2017. In the United States, Aniplex of America released the movie in theaters and on home video.\n\nThree video game adaptations have been made for the franchise. The first is \"The Irregular at Magic High School: Out of Order\" by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is a 3D fighting game for the PlayStation Vita and was released on December 25, 2014. The second game is \"The Irregular at Magic High School\": , a Japanese role-playing game by Mobage. It was made available for Android, iOS, and feature phone on June 9, 2014. The third game is \"The Irregular at Magic High School: Lost Zero\", developed by BeXide and published by Square Enix. It was made available for Android and iOS on September 4, 2014.\n\nThe light novels have been well received. They were ranked seventh in Sugoi Japan 2015 polls and since 2011, was one of the top selling light novel series in Japan. As of 2014, 5.3 million copies of the light novel have been sold. In addition, its manga and anime adaptations also appeared on top selling charts. As of 2017, the light novel series has sold 7.7 million copies.\n\nAnime News Network had four editors review the first episode of the anime: Carl Kimlinger saw potential in its take on a typical anime premise, praising Tatsuya as the lead protagonist and its handling of mysteries surrounding the plot; Theron Martin, although hopeful because of its male lead and plot concept, expressed criticism towards the indistinguishable animation and constant exposition for the viewers; and Rebecca Silverman felt that it was bland and nothing special. The fourth reviewer, Hope Chapman, expressed immediate dislike towards the series, criticizing it for lacking anything to engage the viewers and for being a lazy adaptation of a light novel, and concluding the review with \"I can't even remember the last time I saw something with not a single redeeming factor or thing to recommend about it at all.\" Silverman reviewed the series future episodes. Plotwise, she praised the \"Enrollment Arc\"s underline on standardized testing, criticized the \"Nine Schools Competition Arc\" for its execution and weak exposition, and felt the characters were uninteresting. Silverman felt the series doesn't live up to its potential and cited the background music and stilted animations as possible reasons.\n\nChris Beveridge's review for Fandom Post was highly positive towards the anime series, calling it a dark horse contender as one of their top new anime series of the year. Beveridge praised the technical and fundamental aspects of magic in the series for breaking the supernatural approach other works usually take and liked the potential impact it could have on future events. However, while the reviewer liked the series' technicality, they noted it will frustrate certain viewers in that aspect. Richard Eisenbeis, writing for Kotaku, liked the characters, story, the complex and technical magic system, and mysteries. However, Eisenbeis criticized the exposition, citing it to be poorly timed, heavy, and failing to explain things with better clarity. He concluded his review by writing how the anime might have been great if a different director or screenwriting was hired.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31903", "title": "Unitarian Universalist Association", "text": "Unitarian Universalist Association\n\nUnitarian Universalist Association (UUA) is a liberal religious association of Unitarian Universalist congregations. It was formed in 1961 by the consolidation of the American Unitarian Association and the Universalist Church of America. Both of these predecessor organizations began as Christian denominations of the Unitarian and Universalist varieties respectively. However, modern Unitarian Universalists see themselves as a separate religion with its own beliefs and affinities. They define themselves as non-creedal, and draw wisdom from various religions and philosophies, including humanism, pantheism, Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Judaism, Islam, and Earth-centered spirituality. Thus, the UUA is a syncretistic religious group with liberal leanings.\n\nIn the United States, Unitarian Universalism grew by 15.8% between 2000 and 2010 to include 211,000 adherents nationwide.\n\nMost of the member congregations of the UUA are in the United States and Canada, but the UUA has also admitted congregations from Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Pakistan (although UUA policy appears at present to be against admitting any new congregations from outside North America, rather having them form their own national bodies and having these bodies join the International Council of Unitarians and Universalists). Until 2002, almost all member congregations of the Canadian Unitarian Council (CUC) were also members of the UUA and most services to CUC member congregations were provided by the UUA. However, after an agreement between the UUA and the CUC, since 2002 most services have been provided by the CUC to its own member congregations, with the UUA continuing to provide ministerial settlement services. Since 2002, some Canadian congregations have continued to be members of both the UUA and CUC while others are members of only the CUC.\n\nThe Church of the Larger Fellowship (CLF) is a member church of the Unitarian Universalist Association providing denominational services to persons unable to attend a physical congregation because of distance or mobility, or who wish to belong to a congregation other than their local congregation. Many of these are Unitarian Universalists in other countries, members of the military, prisoners or non-mobile elderly.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Association is headquartered at 24 Farnsworth Street, within Boston, Massachusetts. This serves as the historical center of Unitarianism in the U.S. As of 2009, the UUA comprised 19 Districts, 1,041 congregations with 164,656 certified members and 61,795 church school enrollees served by 1,623 ministers. However, as of 2011 the UUA had 162,796 certified members and 54,671 church school enrollees. This shows a decline of 1,860 members and 7,124 enrollees in church school since 2008. The UUA has, for the first time, also reported decline in average weekly attendance to 100,693 people. This is a drop of 1.5% on the 2010 reported figure. Many atheists and humanists are also a part of the various congregations of the Unitarian Universalist Association.\n\nThe UUA was given corporate status in May 1961 under special acts of legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the State of New York. See Chapter 148 of the acts of 1960 of the Massachusetts legislature and Chapter 827 of the Acts of 1960 of the New York legislature. Copies of said acts are attached to the minutes of the organizing meeting of the association held in Boston, Massachusetts, in May 1961 and also are printed in the 1961–62 directory of the association.\n\nThe UUA is not a denomination in the traditional sense; the UUA is an association of congregations with no one organization able to speak authoritatively for the whole. It is the congregations that have authority over the larger body, through the annual General Assembly of the Unitarian Universalist Association. Since the general public understands \"denomination\" much more readily than \"association of congregations\", the distinction is generally omitted in conversation. Because of this relationship between the congregations and the association, Unitarian Universalist congregations have a congregationalist polity of governance. However, day-to-day decisions are made by the president, the moderator, and the Board of Trustees.\n\nIn its role as a national organization representing the congregations, the UUA is a member of various organizations, both religious and secular.\n\nThe UUA does not have a central creed in which members are required to believe, but they have found it useful to articulate their common values in what has become known as the \"Principles and Purposes\". The first version of the principles was adopted in 1960, and the modern form was adopted in 1984 (including the 7th principle). They were amended once again in 1995 to include the 6th source. Both of these were added to explicitly include members with Neopagan, Native American, and other natural theist spiritualities.\n\nThe principles as published in church literature and on the UUA website :\n\nGeneral Assembly (GA) is held every year in June in a different city in the USA. Member congregations (and three associate member organizations) send delegates and conventioneers to participate in the plenary sessions, workshops, district gatherings, and worship services.\n\nThe UUA requests annual contributions from its member congregations. The requested contribution, known as Fair Share, is calculated for each congregation by multiplying an annually determined membership fee times the number of registered members of that congregation. The UUA also has alternative modes of raising funds. In order for congregations to participate in certain programming, they will pay a nominal fee. Some funds are earned through charitable gifts or estate planning. Additionally, the UUA pools together investment funds from congregations or other constituents and manages them for a small percentage.\n\nUUA leaders concerned with membership numbers fluctuating from barely perceptible growth to slight decline, are working with a variety of experimental UU communities that represent alternative models of congregational formation—or that may point to new forms of affiliation.\n\nTwo non-congregational organizations belong to the UUA as Associate Member organizations. Associate Member organizations are esteemed as inherently integral to the work of the UUA and its member congregations, and are accorded two voting delegates each to the annual General Assembly. The Associate Member organizations are the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee (UUSC), which is active in social change actions, and the Unitarian Universalist Women's Federation, which provides education and advocacy on women's issues. The Unitarian Universalist United Nations Office, which is a center of information and action at the United Nations, was an Associate Member organization until it became an office within the UUA in 2011.\n\nThe UUA also recognizes many organizations as Independent Affiliate organizations. These organizations are created by Unitarian Universalists as needed to meet the special needs of the diversity within Unitarian Universalism. These groups may provide specialized spiritual support, work for specific social justice issues, provide support for religious professionals, etc.\n\nThe UUA owns Beacon Press, a nationally known publisher of both fiction and non-fiction books. Skinner House Books publishes books primarily of interest to Unitarian Universalists.\n\nThe UUA also participates in interfaith organizations such as the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility.\n\nThe UUA is governed by delegates elected to the annual General Assembly. GA delegates elect the president, the moderator, and members of the Board of Trustees.\n\nFrom when the association was established in 1961 until 2010, the president and moderator were each elected to four-year terms by delegates at General Assembly. An individual could not be elected to more than two successive terms. Candidates ran by petition. The 2010 General Assembly adopted a bylaw amendment, to take effect in stages beginning in 2013, making changes in the composition of the Board of Trustees and in the terms and election procedures for president and moderator. Under the new system, the president and moderator are each limited to a single term of six years. A Presidential Search Committee nominates candidates for president. The Board of Trustees nominates candidates for moderator. Individuals who are not nominated by the committee or the board may run by petition. The 2010 amendment also reduced the size of the Board of Trustees and changed the election process so that all trustees are elected by General Assembly. (The prior board consisted of one trustee elected by each UUA district and several at-large trustees elected by General Assembly.)\n\nThe president of the UUA is its CEO and the religious leader of Unitarian Universalism in the United States. The current UUA president is Rev. Susan Frederick-Gray, who was elected at the 2017 UUA General Assembly in New Orleans, Louisiana; she will be the first president to serve a single six-year term, per a 2010 bylaw change. Frederick-Gray is the first woman to be elected as president of the UUA.\n\nThe moderator of the UUA is the chair of the Board of Trustees and is the presiding officer at General Assembly. The moderator is the highest UUA position traditionally held by laity.\n\nModerator Jim Key was elected for a six-year term at General Assembly in 2013.\n\nDue to \"significant health concerns\", Key resigned from office on May 13, 2017, less than a month before his death. \n\nIn August 2017, Mr. Barb Greve and Elandria Williams were appointed to serve as Interim Co-Moderators until a special election for Moderator can be held at the 2018 General Assembly.\n\nThe Religion in Life religious emblems program of UUA is no longer recognized by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA). The UUA published statements opposing the BSA's policies on homosexuals, atheists, and agnostics in 1992; and in 1993, the UUA updated Religion in Life to include criticism of these BSA policies. In 1998, the BSA withdrew recognition of Religion in Life, stating that such information was incompatible with BSA programs. The UUA removed the material from their curriculum and the BSA renewed their recognition of the program. When the BSA found that the UUA was issuing supplemental material with the Religion in Life workbooks that included statements critical of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or personal religious viewpoint, the BSA again withdrew recognition.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Scouters Organization (UUSO) created the Living Your Religion program in May 2005 as a parallel award for Unitarian Universalist youth. The program was promoted at the 2005 National Scout Jamboree and shown as having BSA approval in the UUSO membership brochure and the Living Your Religion Guidebook. The UUA has stated that the UUSO is not recognized as an affiliate organization. As of March 2006, the UUSO has a stated goal to create a set of awards that are recognized by the UUA and BSA.\n\nIn the wake of this controversy, a number of SpiralScouts International circles and dozens of Navigators USA Chapters have formed within congregations of the UUA, despite having no official affiliation with the UUA.\n\nNavigators USA, was founded by volunteers of All Souls Unitarian Church in New York City after terminating its charter with Boy Scout Troop 103 because of the BSA policies. Its founders describe as \"...committed to providing a quality scouting experience that is inclusive and available to all children and families regardless of gender, race, religion, economic status, sexual orientation and social background.\" There are currently 120 chapters in the United States, plus a number in the UK, France, and Kenya.\n\nIn addition to SpiralScouts and Navigators USA, the UUA website also suggests Camp Fire as an alternative scout-like organization that comports with UU principles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46213547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46213547", "title": "Vice-President of Namibia", "text": "Vice-President of Namibia\n\nThe Vice-President of Namibia is the acting President of Namibia when the President is outside the country's borders, unable to fulfill the duties of the office, or when the Presidency is vacant. The Vice-President is also a member of the National Assembly and the Cabinet. The Vice-President is constitutionally required to 'assist the President in the execution of the functions of government,' and may be assigned any government portfolio by presidential proclamation. \n\nThe position of Vice-President was established in 2014 along with several other constitutional amendments. The position is controversial due to its unclear portfolio. Nickey Iyambo served as the first Vice-President of Namibia from 2015 to 2018. The current Vice-President, appointed by President Hage Geingob is Nangolo Mbumba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2465684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465684", "title": "Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone", "text": "Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone\n\nThe Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone was a demilitarized zone established as a dividing line between North and South Vietnam as a result of the First Indochina War.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, it became important as the battleground demarcation separating North from South Vietnamese territories.\n\nThe zone ceased to exist with the reunification of Vietnam, though the area remains dangerous due to the numerous undetonated explosives it contains.\n\nThe Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone ran from east-west near the center of present-day Vietnam (spanning more than a hundred kilometers) and was a couple of kilometers wide, about a hundred kilometers north of the city of Huế. It ran along the Ben Hai River for much of its length, and an island nearby was controlled by North Vietnamese forces during the Vietnam War. Although it was nominally described as being at \"the 17th parallel,\" almost all of the zone lies to the south of the parallel, with only a small portion of the zone near the eastern end actually including the parallel.\n\nThe First Indochina War (also called the French Indochina War) was fought in French Indochina from 1946 through 1954 between France and the French-controlled State of Vietnam on the one side, and the Communist-dominated independence movement, the Viet Minh, on the other. The Viet Minh won the war, gaining effective control of all northern Vietnam except an enclave around Hanoi.\n\nIn 1954, France gave up its control of Vietnam, and the Viet Minh was recognized as the government of northern Vietnam.\n\nThe post-colonial conditions of Vietnam were set at the Geneva Conference of 1954; the agreement was finalized on July 21, 1954.\nThe Geneva agreement reflected the military results at that time. The northern part of Vietnam, which was almost entirely controlled by the Viet Minh became the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, under Communist leader Ho Chi Minh. The southern part of Vietnam, where the Viet Minh controlled relatively small and remote areas, became the independent State of Vietnam under Bảo Đại, the last scion of the old Vietnamese imperial house. The State of Vietnam later became the Republic of Vietnam.\n\nThe boundary between these two zones was established at the Ben Hai River, which enters the South China Sea at 17 degrees 0 minutes 54 seconds N latitude. The boundary followed the Ben Hai to its headwaters, about 55 km WSW, and thence to the Laotian border.\n\nThe area within 5 km on either side of the border was declared to be a demilitarized zone. Troops of both governments were barred from this area. 3rd Marine Division intelligence estimated the combat strength of NVA and VC forces in the DMZ area in January 1968 was 40,943 troops.\n\nExploring the Demilitarized Zone can today be comfortably achieved by joining one of various organised tours starting daily from Hué. Together with a local guide the most famous war settings, as Khe Sanh Combat Base, The Rockpile, Ho-Chi-Minh-Trail, Doc-Mieu-Station or the Vinh Moc tunnels are visited on a full-day trip.\n\nAlthough the Vietnam War ended decades ago, walking outside marked tracks can still be dangerous because of numerous unexploded ordnance devices.\n\n\n"}
