{"id": "15945246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15945246", "title": "Abolitionism (animal rights)", "text": "Abolitionism (animal rights)\n\nAbolitionism or abolitionist veganism is the animal rights based opposition to all animal use by humans. Abolitionism maintains that all sentient beings, humans or nonhumans, share a basic right: the right not to be treated as the property of others. Abolitionist vegans emphasise that animal products require treating animals as property or resources and that animal products are not necessary for human health in modern societies. Abolitionists believe that everyone who can live vegan is therefore morally obligated to be vegan.\n\nAbolitionists generally oppose movements that seek to make animal use more humane or to abolish specific forms of animal use, since they believe this undermines the movement to abolish all forms of animal use. The objective is to secure a moral and legal paradigm shift, whereby animals are no longer regarded as things to be owned and used. The American philosopher Tom Regan writes that abolitionists want empty cages, not bigger ones. This is contrasted with animal welfare, which seeks incremental reform, and animal protectionism, which seeks to combine the first principles of abolitionism with an incremental approach, but which is regarded by some abolitionists as another form of welfarism or \"New Welfarism\".\n\nThe word relates to the historical term abolitionism—a social movement to end slavery or human ownership of other humans.\n\nGary Francione, professor of law and philosophy at Rutgers School of Law-Newark, argues from the abolitionist perspective that self-described animal-rights groups who pursue welfare concerns, such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, risk making the public feel comfortable about its use of animals. He calls such groups the \"new welfarists\", arguing that, though their aim is an end to animal use, the reforms they pursue are indistinguishable from reforms agreeable to traditional welfarists, who he says have no interest in abolishing animal use. He argues that reform campaigns entrench the property status of animals, and validate the view that animals simply need to be treated better. Instead, he writes, the public's view that animals can be used and consumed ought to be challenged. His position is that this should be done by promoting ethical veganism. Others think that this should be done by creating a public debate in society.\n\nNew welfarists argue that there is no logical or practical contradiction between abolitionism and \"welfarism\". Welfarists think that they can be working toward abolition, but by gradual steps, pragmatically taking into account what most people can be realistically persuaded to do in the short as well as the long term, and what suffering it is most urgent to relieve. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, for example, in addition to promoting local improvements in the treatment of animals, promote vegetarianism. And although some people may believe that changing the legal status of nonhuman sentient beings is a first step in abolishing ownership or mistreatment, there may be ample evidence that this is not the case if the consuming public has not already begun to reduce or eliminate its exploitation of animals as their own food.\n\nIn 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as \"beings\" and not \"things\". The dignity of animals is also protected in Switzerland.\n\nNew Zealand granted basic rights to five great ape species in 1999. Their use is now forbidden in research, testing or teaching.\n\nIn the interests of future generations, Germany added animal welfare in a 2002 amendment to its constitution, becoming the first European Union member to do so.\n\nIn 2007, the parliament of the Balearic Islands, an autonomous province of Spain, passed the world's first legislation granting legal rights to all great apes.\n\nIn 2013, India officially recognized dolphins as non-human persons.\n\nIn 2014, France revised the legal status of animals from movable property to sentient beings, and the province of Quebec in Canada is considering similar legislation.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "6422392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6422392", "title": "Anti-patriotism", "text": "Anti-patriotism\n\nAnti-patriotism is the ideology that opposes patriotism; it usually refers to those with cosmopolitan views and is usually of an Internationalist and anti-nationalist nature as well. Normally, anti-patriotism stems from the belief that patriotism is wrong since people born in a country, whether they like it or not and regardless of their individuality, are encouraged to love the country or sacrifice themselves for it; consequently, people who oppose patriotism may oppose its perceived authoritarianism, while others may believe that patriotism may lead to war because of geopolitical disputes. Usually, this term is used in a pejorative way by those who defend patriotism or nationalism, and terms such as cosmopolitanism or world citizenship may be used to avoid the bias that comes from the typical usage of the words \"anti-patriot\" or \"anti-patriotism\". Sometimes anti patriotical groups and individuals are often used as a form of Active measures against own country by other country or some third side, especially during Cold war. The idea of multiple cultures intertwined has also been questioned as anti-patriotic, but mainly in smaller social communities: colleges, universities, etc.\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 and the Sedition Act of 1918 were pieces of legislation in the United States that were passed after it entered World War I, to incriminate individuals who attempted to impede the war effort. Those who did so were punished and believed to be performing acts of anti-patriotism.\n\nDuring a protest outside the Republican Party’s 1984 national convention, Gregory Johnson burned an American flag, he was then arrested and charged with violating a state law. Johnson asserted that his right to burn the American flag was protected by the First Amendment. The case was then brought to the United States Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruled by a 5-4 decision that Johnson’s conviction was unconstitutional. Justice William Brennan, in his majority opinion asserted that the act of burning a flag was considered an expressive activity which is protected by the First Amendment. Although, four members of the Supreme Court argued that his actions were forms of anti-patriotism, and therefore punishable and unprotected by the First Amendment.\n\nIn Chief Justice William Rehnquist's dissenting opinion he asserted that the American flag is a visible symbol for the country and therefore should be preserved. Rehnquist argued that burning the flag expressed disapproval and anti-patriotism for the nation’s policy, and was therefore a symbolic desecration of the U.S. in its entirety. Still today, many argue that the act of burning the American flag is a clear act of anti-patriotism and should not be protected by the First Amendment.\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 was a piece of legislation that was passed to punish and criminalize individuals who impeded the war effort by interfering with military recruitment and supporting foreign enemies; the act was passed shortly after the U.S. declared war on Germany. Some opposed the war, specifically the American Socialist Party, who publicly declared their disapproval. Charles Schenck was the general secretary for the American Socialist Party, who opposed the war and exhibited that disapproval by distributing pamphlets that vilified Woodrow Wilson’s administration and insisted that the draft was unconstitutional. The court unanimously ruled that Schenck’s distribution of the pamphlets posed a clear and present danger to the national security of the U.S. The court ruled that because of this, his speech was not protected by the First Amendment and was simultaneously in violation of the Espionage Act of 1917. The act of deterring individuals from registering for the draft during wartime can be seen as an act of anti-patriotism as it condemns the U.S. government.\n\nIn this case, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that those who provoked and promoted resistance to the war were in direct violation of the Espionage Act, and their speech was not protected by the First Amendment. The provocation of a riot and strike in order to hurt the war effort was seen as an act of anti-patriotism. Abrams attempted to make the workers in ammunition factories go on strike. Therefore, because Abrams acted in a way that was directly attempting to damage the war effort of the U.S., his actions can be seen as acts of anti-patriotism. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes argued that this act did not present a clear and present danger to national security and free speech should not be limited because of that. It is reasonable to conclude that in this case, Abrams was acting in violation of the Espionage Act because he attempted to impede the war effort.\n"}
{"id": "521384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521384", "title": "By-law", "text": "By-law\n\nA by-law (bye-law, bylaw, byelaw) is a rule or law established by an organization or community to regulate itself, as allowed or provided for by some higher authority. The higher authority, generally a legislature or some other government body, establishes the degree of control that the by-laws may exercise. By-laws may be established by entities such as a business corporation, a neighborhood association, or depending on the jurisdiction, a municipality.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and some Commonwealth countries, the local laws established by municipalities are referred to as \"bye-laws\" because their scope is regulated by the central governments of those nations. Accordingly, a bylaw enforcement officer is the Canadian equivalent of the American Code Enforcement Officer or Municipal Regulations Enforcement Officer. In the United States, the federal government and most state governments have no direct ability to regulate the single provisions of municipal law. As a result, terms such as \"code\", \"ordinance\", or \"regulation\", if not simply \"law\" are more common.\n\nThe Merriam-Webster Dictionary indicates that the origin of the word by-law is from the English word \"bilawe\", probably from Old Norse \"*bȳlǫg\", from Old Norse \"bȳr\" town + \"lag-, lǫg\" law. The earliest use of the term, which originates from the Viking town law in the Danelaw, wherein \"by\" is the Old Norse word for a larger settlement as in Whitby and Derby (compare with the modern Danish-Norwegian word \"by\" meaning town, or the modern Swedish word \"by\", meaning village). However, it is also possible that this usage was forgotten and the word was \"reinvented\" in modern times through the use of the adverbial prefix \"by-\" giving the meaning of subsidiary law or side-law (as in \"byway\"). In either case, it is incorrect to claim that the origin of the word is simply the prepositional phrase \"by law.\"\n\nMunicipal by-laws are public regulatory laws which apply in a certain area. The main difference between a by-law and a law passed by a national/federal or regional/state body is that a bylaw is made by a non-sovereign body, which derives its authority from another governing body, and can only be made on a limited range of matters. A local council or municipal government derives its power to pass laws through a law of the national or regional government which specifies what things the town or city may regulate through bylaws. It is therefore a form of delegated legislation.\nWithin its jurisdiction and specific to those areas mandated by the higher body, a municipal by-law is no different than any other law of the land, and can be enforced with penalties, challenged in court and must comply with other laws of the land, such as the country's constitution. Municipal bylaws are often enforcable through the public justice system, and offenders can be charged with a criminal offence for breach of a bylaw. Common bylaws include vehicle parking and stopping regulations, animal control, building and construction, licensing, noise, zoning and business regulation, and management of public recreation areas.\n\nUnder Article 94 of the Constitution of Japan, regional governments have limited autonomy and legislative powers to create by-laws. In practice, such powers are exercised in accordance with the Local Autonomy Law.\n\nBy-laws therefore constitute part of the legal system subordinate to the Japanese constitution. In terms of its mandatory powers and effective, it is considered the lowest of all legislation possible.\n\nSuch powers are used to govern the following:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, byelaws are laws of local or limited application made by local councils or other bodies, using powers granted by an Act of Parliament, and so are a form of delegated legislation.\n\nIn Australian Law there are five types of by-law, and they are established by statute:\n\nCorporate and organizational bylaws regulate only the organization to which they apply and are generally concerned with the operation of the organization, setting out the form, manner or procedure in which a company or organisation should be run. Corporate bylaws are drafted by a corporation's founders or directors under the authority of its Charter or Articles of Incorporation.\n\nBylaws widely vary from organization to organization, but generally cover topics such as the purpose of the organization, who are its members, how directors are elected, how meetings are conducted, and what officers the organization will have and a description of their duties. A common mnemonic device for remembering the typical articles in bylaws is NOMOMECPA, pronounced \"No mommy, see pa!\" It stands for Name, Object, Members, Officers, Meetings, Executive board, Committees, Parliamentary authority, Amendment. Organizations may use a book such as \"Robert's Rules of Order\" \"Newly Revised\" for guidelines on the content of their bylaws. This book has a sample set of bylaws of the type that a small, independent society might adopt.\n\nThe wording of the bylaws has to be precise. Otherwise, the meaning may be open to interpretation. In such cases, the organization decides how to interpret its bylaws and may use guidelines for interpretation.\n\nUsually one of the last sections in the bylaws describes the procedures for amending them. It describes who can amend them (usually the membership, but it could be the organization's board of directors), how much notice is needed, and how much of a vote is needed. A typical requirement is a two-thirds vote provided that previous notice was given or a majority of all the members.\n\nIn parliamentary procedure, including \"Robert's Rules of Order\", the bylaws are generally the supreme governing document of an organization, superseded only by the charter of an incorporated society. The bylaws contain the most fundamental principles and rules regarding the nature of the organization.\n\nIt was once common practice for organizations to have two separate governing documents, a constitution and bylaws, but this has fallen out of favor because of the ease of use, increased clarity, and reduced chance of conflict inherent in a single, unified document. This single document, while properly referred to as the bylaws, is often referred to as a \"constitution\" or a \"constitution and bylaws\". Unless otherwise provided by law, the organization does not formally exist until bylaws have been adopted.\n\nIn some countries, trade unions generally have constitutions, which govern activities of the international office of the union as well as how it interfaces with its locals. The locals themselves can set up their own bylaws to set out internal rules for how to conduct activities.\n\nIn other countries, such as the United Kingdom, union bylaws are sometimes a subset of the union's constitution or implement the union's rules in more detail.\n\n"}
{"id": "38980995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38980995", "title": "Competition and Markets Authority", "text": "Competition and Markets Authority\n\nThe Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) is a non-ministerial government department in the United Kingdom, responsible for strengthening business competition and preventing and reducing anti-competitive activities. The CMA launched in shadow form on 1 October 2013 and began operating fully on 1 April 2014, when it assumed many of the functions of the previously existing Competition Commission and Office of Fair Trading, which were abolished.\n\nOn 15 March 2012 the UK Government's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) announced proposals for strengthening competition in the UK by merging the Office of Fair Trading and the Competition Commission to create a new single Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The formation of the CMA was enacted in Part 3 of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, which received royal assent on 25 April 2013.\n\nIn July 2012, Lord Currie was appointed Chairman designate of the CMA and in January 2013 Alex Chisholm was appointed Chief Executive designate. The term 'designate' was dropped when the CMA was launched on 1 October 2013.\n\nOn 15 July 2013 BIS announced the first stage of an open public consultation period and published a summary, setting out the background to the consultation and inviting views on the draft guidance for the CMA. The first stage of the consultation ended on 6 September 2013. On 17 September, BIS announced the second stage of the consultation, which closed on 7 November 2013.\n\nDuring 2013 and 2014, the CMA announced several waves of appointments at director level, reporting to members of the senior executive team:\n\nOn 28 March 2014 the CMA published the Rules of Procedure for CMA merger, market and special reference groups\nfollowing a consultation which ran from 21 February to 18 March.\n\nOn 26 July 2017, Andrea Coscelli was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Competition and Markets Authority.\n\nIn situations where competition could be unfair or consumer choice may be affected, the CMA is responsible for:\n\n\nThe UK Competition Commission ruled several times against MyFerryLink, so it could no longer operate from Dover despite the French competition authority authorising cross-channel activity. The French government blamed the decision to ban one out of three ferry operators on fair-trade concerns. The appeals court overturned these rulings because MyFerryLink was not a merger of the bankrupt SeaFrance and Eurotunnel. MyFerryLink called attention to a potential conflict of interest, pointing out that the former accountant of DFDS (the competitor and plaintiff) was now a member of the UK Competition Commission. Following these delays, Eurotunnel (owner of the boats rented to MyFerryLink) sold two new boats to the DFDS competitor. Because of this the port of Calais was blocked by workers, boats were occupied and the Channel Tunnel attacked, resulting in cross-channel disruption and traffic jams in the UK and France.\n\nDuring an inquiry into the private healthcare market the authority made the Private Healthcare Market Investigation Order 2014. This requires healthcare providers, including NHS trusts to submit information to the Private Healthcare Information Network. This will include information about infection rates, rates of adverse incidents, and the relative health improvement brought about by treatments. This will be broken down by consultant in 2018 and in 2019 will extend to charges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7755785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7755785", "title": "Copyright law of Serbia", "text": "Copyright law of Serbia\n\nSerbian copyright act () is officially published as the copyright act of Serbia and Montenegro on 24 December 2004, and it remains in force after the country's split under \"Declaration of continuation by Republic of Serbia\" September 19, 2006. It \"regulates the rights of the authors of literary, scientific and artistic works, right of performers, right of the first publisher of a free work, rights of producers of phonograms, videograms, broadcasts and databases, as rights related to the copyright..., and the way of exercising the copyright and related rights and the judicial protection of such rights.\" \n\nThe act consists of eight sections: \n\nThe act defines the \"work of authorship\" as an \"author's original intellectual creation, expressed in a certain form, regardless of its value, purpose, size and contents\". The following are considered as \"works of authorship in particular\":\n\n\nAccording to the Article 6 (section 2) of the act, \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15749468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15749468", "title": "Council House 2", "text": "Council House 2\n\nCouncil House 2 (also known as CH), is an office building located at 240 Little Collins Street in the CBD of Melbourne, Australia. It is used by the City of Melbourne council, and in April 2005, became the first purpose-built office building in Australia to achieve a maximum Six Green Star rating, certified by the Green Building Council of Australia. CH officially opened in August 2006.\n\nComparing to a building with a Five Green Star rating, CH's emissions will be 64% lower. When compared to the existing Council House next door, it is expected to:\n\nFeatures include new LCD computer monitors, which will consume 77% less energy, and new T5 light fittings which should consume 65% less energy. The building also houses 48 m of solar panels, which provide 60% of hot water, as well as a gas-fired cogeneration plant which provides 40% of the building's overall electricity and heating, with significantly reduced carbon emissions. The cogeneration plant is powered by a Capstone C65 microturbine which produces 65 kW of electricity and 130 kW of hot water.\n\nOf the total construction cost of $51 million, $12 million were invested in energy, water and waste innovation. The time for payback is expected to be less than ten years.\n\nCH is meant to be a 'lighthouse project' for new building developments, aiming to influence future design to be more sustainable and efficient. Some objectives when designing the building were to be greenhouse neutral and improve the overall employee wellbeing. Different strategies were used when doing this but all were focused around a sustainability aspect.\n\nBiomimicry was a large component in designing the building. The building's principal design architect, Mick Pearce, incorporated a system previously and successfully used in the Eastgate Centre in Harare. The heating, ventilating, and cooling system (hvac) is designed with strategies taken from a termite mound. In the termite mound, the cool wind is drawn into the base of the mound, via channels and the 'coolth' is stored using wet soil. As the air warms, it flows upwards and out of the mound via vents. This gives the mound the ability to keep a stable temperature. CH uses similar strategies with its system by effectively using natural convection, ventilation stacks, thermal mass, phase change material, and water for cooling. Another strategy used taken from nature is the skin system. The façade is composed of an epidermis (outer skin) and dermis (inner skin). The 'dermis' of the building consists of the outside zone to house the stairs, lifts, ducts, balconies, sunscreens and foliage with the inner line defining the extent of the 'fire compartment'. The dermis was designed with lightweight constructing using a steel frame. The epidermis provides the micro-environment including the primary sun and glare control for the building while creating a semi enclosed micro-environment.\n\nVentilation stacks are implemented on the north and south façades of the building. These stacks are used to channel air. The north stacks receive more sun so they are black to absorb heat, which in turn encourages the warm air from the building to rise up out of the stacks. The south stacks are used to channel down cold air through the vents. These stacks also offer shading for office windows.\n\nThe ceilings are made from pre-cast concrete, with a 'wavy' shape, to optimise surface area, which allows for an increase in thermal mass capacity. The thermal mass in the concrete is flushed at night, through a night purge, absorbing 'coolth' form the night air and allowing it to absorb heat from the space during the day. With the 'wavy' design, heated air is collected at ceiling height, and then channelled out of the building and into the ventilation stacks. Radiant cooling is also a strategy used by running chilled water through beams and ceiling panels. Chilled panels cool the rising warm air, which then drops, creating a natural convection current. Phase change material is used to cool the water for the chilled beams and panels. It efficiently helps to keep the water circulating through the beams and panels at a desired temperature. The phase change material is often referred to as the 'battery' of the building because of its purpose of storing the 'coolth'.\n\nNatural day lighting was a difficult task for the CH team due to the building's orientation and position in relation to surrounding buildings, and the requirement for a deep open plan office space. The best design techniques for CH to allow the most natural light included a synergy between windows size and air ducts, light shelves to reflect light into the office area, vaulted ceilings to allow further light penetration, shading on north, west, and east façades, and finally timber louvres to control light penetration from the afternoon western sun. The light shelves were placed on the north façade which in turn will create a soft indirect light on the roof space. These light shelves are placed externally and made of fabric in a steel frame. The vaulted ceilings allow for more natural light filtering to the deeper parts of the office space. Locating the windows at the highest point of the curve improved this technique. The east facing façade uses a perforated metal system for shading that also acts like a thermal chimney. Heat rises pulling air through the eastern part of the building allowing it to be naturally ventilated. The north facing façade is composed of steel trellises and balconies supporting vertical gardens nine stories high. The foliage protects the building from the sun and also filters sunlight for a reduction of indoor glares. Light shelves are used to provide shading as well as reflect natural light into the building. These light shelves are placed externally and made of fabric in a steel frame. The west facing façade is covered with a system of timber louvres that pivot to optimise the penetration of natural light and views. These louvres also protect the façade from the harsh western sun. The louvres open and close depending on the amount of sun that is hitting the western façade. The louvres are made from untreated recycled timber and are moved by a computer-controlled hydraulic system. The building also uses artificial lighting throughout to provide a sufficient amount of light when natural light is not available. These lights use the low-energy T5 luminaries which achieve a lighting power density of less than 2.5 watts/m² per 100 lux.\n\nShower towers are used on the southern façade. These towers draw outside air from above street level and cool the air by evaporation to form the shower of water. The cool air is then supplied to the retail spaces and the cool water is used to pre-cool the water coming from the chilled water panels. The towers are made from tubes of lightweight fabric 1.4 meters in diameter. Testing from these towers has shown a temperature reduction of 4 to 13 degrees Celsius from the top of the tower to the bottom of the tower.\n\nThe designers also used an innovative concept of design by using the same amount of foliage on the building as would have been present if the site was still in its original natural vegetated state. This is accomplished by using a roof garden, which also serves as a break-out and recreation space for staff. The northern façade also incorporates planter boxes situated east and west of each northern balcony.\n\nA main concern when designing CH was the indoor environment quality (IEQ), and many steps were made to optimise this in particular. With an improvement in the overall IEQ designers believed this could lead to fewer sick days of occupants, fewer headaches and better well-being while staff are at work. The City of Melbourne's aim was to create a healthy, comfortable, adaptable and stimulating work environment for the staff. Strategies used to improve the IEQ include a well-designed working environment, fresh air, natural light, greenery, and use of materials that emit low amounts of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Not only do these strategies improve the work place, but also can save the city money based on productivity gains.\n\nDisplacement ventilation was used as the primary ventilation in CH. The advantages of using a displacement ventilation system include increased cost effectiveness in operation, improved air quality within occupied zone, greater operational efficiency, ability to conceal, quiet, and finally flexibility. The minimum fresh air requirement at CH is 22.5 litres/second/person. This is much higher than the Australian Standard of 10 litres/second/person (AS 1668.2)\nThe higher turnover rate was chosen because research has shown that low fresh air requirements can be directly linked to low productivity and sickness, including colds and flu.\n\nNatural light was optimised in the design of CH by creating a wavy ceiling, use of light shelves, larger windows at the bottom of building and smaller windows at the top, use of colours to accentuate the natural light, and the concepts that windowed areas were shared by all not owned individuals.\n\nThe interior of the building is also decorated with a variety of plant life with aesthetic purposes, as well as research that shows that plants reduce the amount of VOCs in the air. In addition to controlling VOCs with plants, CH planners chose materials to keep the indoor pollutants at a minimum. Low-VOC paints, low-VOC carpets, low-VOC adhesives and sealants, and low-emission formaldehyde composite wood products are all used in the interiors of the building.\n\nGreen Star rates the environmental performance of a building based, in this case, on its design. It is administrated by the Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA). The rating looks at the following aspects of the building process:\n\nEach of these aspects are then broken up into smaller categories that cover a wide range of topics.\n\nGreen Star is a public method of demonstrating commitment to environmentally responsible building. It provides a standard language to discuss sustainability for buildings.\n\nOn 22 March 2005, CH building design was awarded a 6 Star rating under Green Star – Office Design v1. The following table presents the points possible, and points awarded for CH\n\nNote: Post-occupancy reports were recorded after one year of building use while the building was still going under adjustments.\n\nThermal Comfort: Thermal dissatisfaction ratings should be below 10% in most locations of the building. The perceived overall thermal comfort is also good but the airflow is perceived to be to low.\n\nAir Quality:The air quality of CH is excellent in terms of measured pollutant levels. The occupants also perceive the air quality to be better. The formaldehyde concentrations are much lower than compared to common office buildings. The overall air quality is excellent due to the 100% fresh air intake and the use of low toxicity materials used in all furnishings and finishes as well as an extensive use of indoor plants.\n\nNoise Levels: Ambient noise levels and reverberation times were considered ideal but the occupant satisfaction ratings for now were average to poor and were generally worse than benchmarks. This is due to the open floor layout, which improves communication between employees, but allows for unwanted interruptions. White noise increases satisfaction scores on one level compared to the rest of the building (10–18%).\n\nLighting: The background lighting levels are sufficient, and the recommended task illuminances could be achieved if personal task lighting was switched on. Occupant satisfaction for lighting is average to poor in CH and is worse than some Building Uses Studies benchmarks (BUS).\n\nPerceived Productivity: Three quarters of CH occupants rate the building as having a positive or neutral effect on productivity, compared to 39% in the original Council House. CH is rated in the top 20% of Australian buildings for perceived productivity.\n\nPerceived Worker Health: CH is rated very highly for perceived healthiness, and is considered to have low levels of occupant reported rates for building related health symptoms. Absenteeism and staff turnover has not changed but more time must pass to have conclusive data.\n\nOverall: 80% of occupants prefer CH to their previous accommodation. It was also seen that the staff productivity improved 10.9% resulting in a cost savings of over two million dollars. The improvement results in a seven-year payback period for the buildings environmental features, three years ahead of the suspected schedule of ten years.\n\n2004\n2005\n2006\n2007\n2010\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2128025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128025", "title": "Croft (land)", "text": "Croft (land)\n\nA croft is a fenced or enclosed area of land, usually small and arable, and usually, but not always, with a crofter's dwelling thereon. A crofter is one who has tenure and use of the land, typically as a tenant farmer, especially in rural areas.\n\nThe word \"croft\" is West Germanic in etymology and is now most familiar in Scotland, most crofts being in the Highlands and Islands area. Elsewhere the expression is generally archaic. In Scottish Gaelic, it is rendered (, plural ).\n\nEssentially similar positions have been the medieval \"villein\" and the Swedish ' and Norwegian '.\n\nThe Scottish croft is a small agricultural landholding of a type which has been subject to special legislation applying to the Highland region of Scotland since 1886. The legislation was largely a response to the complaints and demands of tenant families who were victims of the Highland Clearances. The modern crofters or tenants appear very little in evidence before the beginning of the 18th century. They were tenants at will underneath the tacksman and wadsetters, but practically their tenure was secure enough. The first evidence that can be found of small tenants holding directly of the proprietor is in a rental of the estates of Sir D. MacDonald in Skye and North Uist in 1715.\n\nThe first planned crofting townships in the Outer Hebrides were Barragloum and Kirkibost (Great Bernera) which were laid out into 32 large \"lots\" of between 14 and 30 acres in the uniform rectangular pattern that would become very familiar in later decades. This work was carried out in 1805 by James Chapman for the Earl of Seaforth.\n\nThe first edition of the Ordnance Survey in 1850 clearly highlights the division of this land and the turf and stone boundaries built by the first tenants in 1805 are still in use today as croft boundaries. Kirkibost was 'cleared' of its tenants in 1823 and the 1850 mapping clearly shows roofless ruins on each parcel of land. The township was however re-settled in 1878 following the Bernera Riot four years earlier using exactly the same division boundaries set out in 1805.\n\nThe Parliament of the United Kingdom created the Crofters' Act 1886, after the Highland Land League had gained seats in that parliament. The government was then Liberal, with William Ewart Gladstone as Prime Minister. Another Crofters' Act was created in 1993 (the Crofters' (Scotland) Act 1993). The earlier Act established the first Crofting Commission, but its responsibilities were quite different from those of the newer Crofters Commission created in 1955. The Commission is based in Inverness.\n\nCrofts held subject to the provisions of the Crofters' Acts are in the administrative counties of Shetland, Orkney, Caithness, Sutherland, Ross-shire, Inverness-shire and Argyll, in the north and west of Scotland. Under the 1886 legislation (the Crofters' Holdings (Scotland) Act) protected crofters are members of a crofters' township, consisting of tenants of neighbouring crofts with a shared right to use common pasture. Since 1976 it has been legally possible for a crofter to acquire title to his croft, thus becoming an owner-occupier.\n\nThe Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003 gives crofters the right to buy their land.\n\n\n\nArticles\n"}
{"id": "5584228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584228", "title": "Declaration of Delhi", "text": "Declaration of Delhi\n\nThe New Delhi Congress or Declaration of Delhi was an international gathering of over 185 judges, lawyers, and law professors from 53 countries all over the world, united as the International Commission of Jurists that took place in New Delhi, India in 1959. The theme of the New Delhi Congress was \"The Rule of Law in a Free Society\". The Congress further developed the principles and procedures underlying the Rule of Law as well as defining and clarifying the concept itself.\n\nIn Anglo-American tradition, the most influential version of the rule of law has been that popularized by British jurist A.V. Dicey in 1885. Dicey's doctrine on the rule of law is a threefold one:\n\n\nModern lawyers would regard the rule of law as essentially a political or moral idea, although nonetheless important for that, since it affects the way the law is developed and applied. It concerns ideas of regularity, access to the courts, fair procedure and honoring expectations. The 'rule of law' in Dicey's sense was a political factor that led to the enactment of the Crown Proceedings Act 1947 in the United Kingdom. Before that Act the Crown, that is, the central government, was immune from liability in the courts for breach of contract or for injuries inflicted by its servants.\n\nSince the Second World War there have been several attempts to draw up Internationally binding codes of basic human rights. The Nurenberg Trials of Nazi war criminals that were organized by the victorious allies were based upon the assumption that some of the laws of Nazi Germany were not valid as they were repugnant to the standards of morality accepted by all civilized nations. This approach to law raises profound philosophical problems, but the role of modern human rights treaties and declarations is a less dramatic one. These include the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), and the Declaration of Delhi or New Delhi Congress (1959).\n\nThe Delhi Congress gave rise to three important elements in the concept of the Rule of Law.\n\n\nIn preparation of the Congress, the Commission held a preparatory meeting in The Hague, Netherlands on 7 and 8 July 1958, where the drafting of the Congress Working Paper on the Rule of Law was mandated to former ICJ Secretary-General, Mr Norman Marsh. The 134 page paper was based on information gathered in an international survey of lawyers and legal institutions conducted by the ICJ Secretariat in the course of 1957. The information gathered was divided into the following sections:\n\n\nThe committees set up during the congress were each dedicated to one of the four themes with the Working Paper providing the basis of the discussions. The reports and conclusions of the committees were presented in two plenary sessions and the texts were subsequently referred to a steering committee, which issued the conclusions at the closing plenary session.\n\nIn its conclusions, the committee on the legislative stated that under the Rule of Law, the legislature carried out the function of creating and maintaining conditions that would uphold the dignity of man. This would include recognition of civil and political rights as well as the establishment of the social, economic, educational and cultural conditions, which the committee deemed essential to the full development of the individual's personality.\n\nThe committee also stated that minimum standards and principles regulating the individual within society were essential for the Rule of Law. Such standards would, however, imply certain limitations on legislative power. The limitations on the legislative should be enshrined in a constitution and safeguarded by an independent judicial tribunal.\n\nAccording to the conclusions of the committee, the legislative had the responsibility to: abstain from enacting retroactive penal legislation; not discriminate in its laws between one citizen and another; not interfere with freedom of religious belief; not deny members of society the right to responsible government; not place restrictions on the freedom of speech, assembly or association; not impair the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual; and provide the procedural mechanisms to protect the above-mentioned freedoms (\"procedure of due process\").\n\nThe committee on the executive concluded that the granting of power by the legislative to the executive should be undertaken within the narrowest possible limits and that legislature should define the extent and purpose of such delegated powers, as well as the procedures by which such delegated power was to be brought into effect. An independent judicial body should be given the power to review the legislation passed by the executive (Judicial review).\n\nWhen the executive directly and adversely affected a person or the property rights of an individual, he or she should have the right to present his or her case before a court as well as the right to an adequate remedy. In the absence of a judicial review mechanism, antecedent procedures of hearing, inquiry and consultation should be established, through which parties whose rights or interests would be affected can have an adequate opportunity to make representation.\n\nThe committee also concluded that the Rule of Law would be strengthened if the executive were to be required to formulate its reasons when reaching its decisions, and at the request of a concerned party, to communicate them.\n\nThe committee considered the practical application of the Rule of Law in the field of criminal process. The committee clarified rules which it regarded as the minimum necessary to ensure the observance of the Rule of Law.\n\nThe committee made its conclusions regarding the prohibition of retrospective enactment of penal legislation (certainty of the law) as well as on the principle of presumption of innocence, which in the committee's view required that the burden of proof should only be shifted once facts creating a contrary presumption had been established.\n\nConcerning the arrest of an individual, the power to arrest should be regulated and the arrested person should be told at once the grounds of his or her arrest. He or she should be entitled to a legal adviser and be brought before a judicial authority within a short period of time.\n\nIn relation to pre-trial detention, the committee listed the rights of the arrested, including the right to apply for bail.\n\nConclusions were also made in respect to the preparation and conduct of the defense and the minimum duties of the prosecution. These included the requirement that the prosecution not withhold favorable evidence from the accused.\n\nRegarding the examination of the accused, the committee laid down minimum standards, such as respect for the right not to incriminate oneself and provisions that guarantee the physical and psychological integrity of the accused.\n\nThe committee also made conclusions regarding trial in public for criminal cases and the right to appeals and remedies.\n\nLastly, the committee concluded that the Rule of Law did not require any particular theory regarding punishment, but must necessarily condemn cruel, inhuman or excessive preventive measures or punishments and thus the committee supported the adoption of reformative measures wherever possible.\n\nThe committee on the Judiciary and the Legal Profession emphasized the importance of an independent judiciary in upholding the Rule of Law. The independence of the judiciary would be safeguarded by certain measures, including co-operation between at least two branches of the state (i.e. judiciary and legislative) on the appointment of judges. Furthermore, the committee perceived the \"irremovability\" of the judiciary as an important safeguard of the Rule of Law.\n\nRegarding the legal profession, the committee deemed an organized legal profession free to manage its own affairs to be essential. While a lawyer should be free to accept any case which is offered to him, he should also in some cases be obliged to defend persons with whom he does not sympathize.\n\nThe committee also addressed the issue of equal access to the justice. It was perceived to be the primary obligation of the legal profession to use its best efforts to ensure that adequate legal advice and representation were provided. The state and community would however have the obligation to assist the legal profession in carrying out this responsibility.\n\n\"This International Congress of Jurists, consisting of 185 judges, practicing lawyers and teachers of law from 53 countries, assembled in New Delhi in January 1959 under the aegis of the International Commission of Jurists, having discussed freely and frankly the Rule of Law and the administration of justice throughout the world, and having reached conclusions regarding the legislative, the executive, the criminal process, the judiciary and the legal profession, (which conclusions are annexed to this Declaration),\"\n\n\"Now solemnly\"\n\n\"Reaffirms the principles expressed in the Act of Athens adopted by the International Congress of Jurists in 1955, particularly that independent judiciary and legal profession are essential to the maintenance of the Rule of Law and to the proper administration of justice;\"\n\n\"Recognizes that the Rule of Law is a dynamic concept for the expansion and fulfillment of which jurists are primarily responsible and which should be employed not only to safeguard and advance the civil and political rights of the individual in a free society, but also to establish social, economic, educational and cultural conditions under which his legitimate aspirations and dignity may be realized;\"\n\n\"Calls on the jurists in all countries to give effect in their own communities to the principles expressed in the conclusions of the Congress; and finally\"\n\n\"Requests the International Commission of Jurists\"\n\n\n\"This Declaration shall be known as the Declaration of Delhi.\"\n\n\"Done at Delhi this 10th day of January 1959\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51697", "title": "Deposition (law)", "text": "Deposition (law)\n\nA deposition in the law of the United States, or examination for discovery in the law of Canada, involves the taking of sworn, out-of-court oral testimony of a witness that may be reduced to a written transcript for later use in court or for discovery purposes. Depositions are commonly used in litigation in the United States and Canada. They are almost always conducted outside court by the lawyers themselves, with no judge present to supervise the examination.\n\nDepositions developed in Canada and the United States in the nineteenth century. Depositions are a part of the discovery process in which litigants gather information in preparation for trial. In nations that do not provide for depositions, testimony is usually preserved for future use by way of live testimony in the courtroom, or by way of written affidavit. Some jurisdictions recognize an affidavit as a form of deposition, sometimes called a \"deposition upon written questions.\" While in common law jurisdictions such as England and Wales, Australia, and New Zealand recording the oral evidence of supporting witnesses ('obtaining a statement') is routine during pre-litigation investigations, having the right to pose oral questions to the opposing party's witnesses before trial is not.\n\n\"Deposition\" is the preferred term in U.S. federal courts and in the majority of U.S. states. Some states also refer to a deposition as an examination before trial (EBT). However, in unusual situations depositions are sometimes taken during or even after trial.\n\nIn almost all cases pending in United States federal courts, depositions are carried out under Rule 30 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. About 35 states use versions of the FRCP in their state courts. Other states have discovery rules that are set out either in court rules or statutes, and which vary somewhat from one state to another. According to FRCP Rule 30, the number of depositions is limited to 10 depositions per side (i.e. plaintiffs and defendants), with deposition of each deponent limited to 1 day of 7 hours (unless specified otherwise in Local Rules of the District).\n\nThe person to be \"deposed\" (questioned) at a deposition, known as the \"deponent\", is usually notified to appear at the appropriate time and place by means of a subpoena. Frequently the most desired witness (the deponent) is an opposite party to the action. In that instance, legal notice may be given to that person's attorney, and a subpoena is not required. But, if the witness is not a party to the lawsuit (a third party) or is reluctant to testify, then a subpoena must be served on that party. To ensure an accurate record of statements made during a deposition, a court reporter is present and typically transcribes the deposition by digital recording or stenographic means. Depending upon the amount in controversy and the ability of the witness to appear at trial, audio or video recordings of the deposition are sometimes taken as well.\n\nDepositions usually take place at the office of the court reporter or in the office of one of the law firms involved in a case. However, depositions are also sometimes taken at a witness's workplace or home, or in a nearby hotel's conference room. Generally the deposition is attended by the person who is to be deposed, their attorney, court reporter, and other parties in the case who can appear personally or be represented by their counsels. Any party to the action and their attorneys have the right to be present and to ask questions.\n\nPrior to taking a deposition, the court reporter administers the same oath or affirmation that the deponent would take if the testimony were being given in court in front of a judge and jury. Thereafter, the court reporter makes a verbatim digital or stenographic record of all that is said during the deposition, in the same manner that witness testimony is recorded in court. Some jurisdictions allow stenomask technology in lieu of traditional stenographic equipment, although many jurisdictions still prohibit stenomask because of its disconcerting effect on some lawyers and witnesses.\n\nAttorneys for the deposing litigant are often present, although this is not required in all jurisdictions. The attorney who has ordered the deposition begins questioning of the deponent (this is referred to as \"direct examination\" or \"direct\" for short). Since nods and gestures cannot be recorded, the witness is instructed to answer all questions aloud. After the direct examination, other attorneys in attendance have an opportunity to cross-examine the witness. The first attorney may ask more questions at the end, in \"re-direct\", which may be followed by \"re-cross\".\n\nDuring the course of the deposition, one attorney or another may object to questions asked. In most jurisdictions, only two types of objections are allowed: The first is to assert a privilege and the second is to object to the form of the question asked. Objections to form are frequently used to signal the witness to be careful in answering the question. Since the judge is not present, all other objections, in particular those involving the rules of evidence, are generally preserved until trial. They still can be made sometime at the deposition to indicate the serious problem to judge and witness, but the witness must answer the question despite these objections. If the form objection is made, the opposite party still has the right to re-phrase the same question and ask it again. Indeed, in Texas, lawyers were so aggressively using objections to indirectly coach their witnesses on the record that all objections outside four narrow categories are now prohibited and making such prohibited objections waives \"all\" objections to the question or answer at issue. California is the major \"outlier\" on deposition objections; under the California Civil Discovery Act as enacted in 1957 and heavily revised in 1986, most objections must be given on the record at the deposition (and must be specific as to the objectionable nature of the question or response) or they are permanently waived.\n\nAs with oral examination at trial, depositions can become heated at times, with some attorneys asking harassing questions to provoke witnesses into losing their tempers, some witnesses giving evasive answers, and everyone using profane language. In extreme situations, one side or the other may ask the reporter to mark the record, then may suspend the deposition, demand a rush transcript, and file an emergency motion to compel a response, for a protective order, or for sanctions. Some courts have magistrates or discovery commissioners who are on call for such contingencies, and the parties are supposed to use them to referee such disputes over the phone before resorting to filing motions. In extreme circumstances where the relationship between the lawyers, parties, or witnesses has totally broken down, the court may require the use of a discovery referee who will have authority to sit in on depositions and rule immediately on objections as they are presented, or may order that all further depositions take place in court in the presence of a judge.\n\nParties can bring documents to the deposition and ask document identification questions to build a foundation for making the documents admissible as evidence at trial, as long as the deponent admits their authenticity. The court reporter and all parties in the case are usually provided a copy of the documents during the deposition for review.\n\nIn recent years, developments in litigation technology has allowed the use of paper documents to be replaced by electronic documents and exhibits in the deposition. In such cases, the examining attorney marks and distributes the official exhibits electronically using a laptop or tablet device. The deponent, court reporter, and all parties receive digital official exhibits or courtesy copies. Combined with live transcript feed technology and legal videography, digital exhibit technology has made participation in remote depositions more functional and popular.\n\nUnder FRCP 30(d)(1) and its state counterparts, a deposition normally must take place for no longer than seven hours on one day per each deponent, unless otherwise stipulated by the parties or ordered by the court. This means that the deposing party who knows that a deposition will go longer than one day must either ask the deponent to stipulate to more time, or, if the deponent is uncooperative, go before the court and file a motion for a longer deposition. California was the major exception, in that it had \"no\" default time limit; depositions can theoretically proceed indefinitely, or at least until the deposition becomes so obviously excessive and burdensome that the deponent is able to move for a protective order. However, in January 2013, the California legislature amended the previous rule to fall in line with the federal rule, now requiring that depositions will typically be limited to seven hours of total testimony. It is worth noting that this new California rule does not apply to \"any case brought by an employee or applicant for employment against an employer for acts or omissions arising out of or relating to the employment relationship.\"\n\nAfter the deposition, the transcript is then published in the form of a hardcopy booklet, which is provided to the deponent as well as to any party to the suit who wishes to purchase a copy. The booklet will have the case caption (the name of the court, case number, and names of the parties) on the front. Inside, the pages have line numbers along the left margin, so that the parties can precisely cite testimony by page and line in later court documents. Timestamps are inserted into the margin if a video recording is being made; in the event the witness is unavailable for trial, the parties or the court will use the timestamps to identify admissible segments which a video editor will stitch together to present to the jury. Finally, a concordance is automatically generated by the stenographic system's software and included in the back of the booklet.\n\nMost court reporters can also provide a digital copy of the transcript in ASCII, RealLegal, and PDF formats. The court reporter keeps a copy of the documents provided to the deponent during the deposition for document identification questions, unless digital document and exhibit technology is employed, in which case the deponent and all parties receive the official exhibits in real time. Deponent has right to read and sign the deposition transcript before it is filed with the court. Deponent cannot change his statements on the deposition transcript, but under rule 30(e) they can correct on additional \"errata sheet\" any mistakes in the deposition transcript shortly after the testimony has been typed and bound.\n\nThe errata sheet allows the deponent to make any modifications that make \"changes in form or substance,\" giving the deponent the option to alter their record from the original transcript. Issues may arise where a party attempts to make substantive changes to testimony through errata sheets.\n\nThe chief values of obtaining a deposition, as with any discovery proceeding, is to give all litigant parties in a contested case a fair preview of the evidence, and to provide support documents for further trials and dispositive motions. The process provides a \"level playing field\" of information among the litigants and avoids surprises at trial (traditionally regarded as an unfair tactic). Another benefit of taking depositions is to preserve a witness's recollection while it is still fresh, since the trial may still be months or years away. When a witness's testimony in open court is inconsistent with that given at deposition, a party can introduce the deposition to impeach (or contradict) the witness. In the event a witness is unavailable for trial (usually because they are deceased, seriously ill, or live hundreds of miles away), their deposition may be read or played before the jury and made part of the record in the case, with the same legal force as live testimony. In some states, stenographic, audio, or video records of depositions can be offered into evidence even if the witness is available. Deposition of the opposite party is often used to produce self-incriminating statements from the deponent, also document identification questions can make exhibits admissible for hearings and summary judgment motions.\n\nSometimes, after a number of witnesses have been deposed, the parties will have enough information that they can reasonably predict the outcome of a prospective trial, and may decide to arrive at a compromise settlement, thus avoiding trial and preventing additional costs of litigation. Accordingly, while most depositions are not videotaped, opposing counsel may use the opportunity to get an impression of the witness's affect and appearance, because these are telling factors as to how that person will present in front of a jury. Furthermore, deposition transcripts are frequently submitted in support of motions for summary judgment as evidence that there is no triable issue of fact. The moving party may use transcripts to argue that even if all the testimony given at deposition was given again at trial, no reasonable factfinder could find in the opponent's favor on a material issue of fact. The rationale is that generally, a witness must give consistent testimony on all material issues of fact both at deposition \"and\" at trial (unless there is a very good reason for changing one's answers), or else the inconsistencies can and will be used to impeach his credibility.\n\nIn some United States jurisdictions, depositions may be taken in criminal cases, for reasons that vary between jurisdictions. In federal criminal cases, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure Rule 15 governs the taking of depositions. Each state has its own laws which govern the taking of depositions.\n\nMost jurisdictions provide that depositions may be taken to perpetuate the testimony of a witness, that is, preserve their testimony for trial. If the person requested to testify (deponent) is a party to the lawsuit or someone who works for an involved party, notice of time and place of the examination before trial can be given to the other side's attorney, but if the witness is an independent third party, a subpoena must be served on him/her if he/she is recalcitrant. This occurs when a witness may not be able to testify at trial. The deposition of the witness is taken and, if the witness is unable to appear at trial, the deposition may be used to establish the witness' testimony in lieu of the witness actually testifying. Regarding depositions to preserve testimony, the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution establishes a constitutional right of the defendant to be present during the deposition and to cross-examine the witness. The defendant may waive this right.\n\nSome jurisdictions provide that depositions may be taken for purposes of discovery. In these jurisdictions, the defendant does not have a constitutional right to be present, although such a right may be established by statute.\n\nSome jurisdictions require that because of the sensitive nature of taking a deposition of a minor, it must be videotaped.\n\nA defendant in a criminal case may not be deposed without his consent because of the Fifth Amendment right to not give testimony against oneself.\n\nIn Canada, the process is nearly identical to that followed in the United States, but the proceeding is called an examination for discovery. In Australia, and England and Wales, there is no right of oral examination of opposing parties in civil litigation, save that in England and Wales the pre-litigation discovery process allows for each party to make written questions and the answers to those questions will be relied upon during if there is any discrepancy in the oral evidence given in Court. Oral examination is typically completed after pleadings and requests for particulars by exchange of affidavits of documents and sometimes written questions and answers (interrogatories). Often affidavits are exchanged before trial, but the first opportunity to orally question the opposing party's evidence is usually at trial.\n\nThe process is considered in Canada to be time consuming and expensive when conducted without limits. As a result, Rule 31.05.1 of the Ontario Rules of Civil Procedure has, since January 1, 2010, limited examinations for discovery to seven hours per party except with consent of the other parties or the leave of the Court. British Columbia implemented similar reforms on July 1, 2010, although the new Rule 7-2(2) can be read in two ways, it appears to be that each party can examine each other party for a maximum of seven hours unless the court orders otherwise. The alternative reading is that each party is only to be examined for a maximum of seven hours.\n\nJurisdictions such as Australia and England and Wales do not have comparable oral examinations at the discovery stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1461682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461682", "title": "Discretionary review", "text": "Discretionary review\n\nDiscretionary review is the authority appellate courts have to decide which appeals they will consider from among the cases submitted to them. This offers the judiciary a filter on what types of cases are appealed, because judges have to consider in advance which cases will be accepted. The appeals court will then be able to decide substantive cases with the lowest opportunity cost.\n\nThe opposite of discretionary review is mandatory review, in which appellate courts must consider all appeals submitted. \n\nThe advantage to discretionary review is that it enables an appellate court to focus its limited resources on developing a coherent body of case law, or at least it is able to focus on making decisions in consistent fashion (in jurisdictions where case law is not recognized). The disadvantage is that it reduces the ability of litigants to seek review of incorrect decisions of lower courts. However, the problem with allowing appeals of right through all appellate levels is that it encourages parties to exploit every technical error of \"each\" level of the court system as a basis for further review. Discretionary review forces parties to always concentrate their resources on persuading the trial court to get it right the first time around (rather than assuming an appellate court will \"fix it later\"), thus increasing the overall efficiency of the judicial system. Of course, it also leaves them at the mercy of the discretion of the trial court.\n\nThe European Commission on Human Rights exercised discretionary review against the petitions it received under the European Convention on Human Rights, rejecting those that it determined were ill-founded (by showing no apparent violation), which has allowed it to manage its caseload. By doing so, the Commission has evolved from a \"service organisation\" to a \"commonweal organisation\" whose decisions create legal precedent.\n\nFor the Supreme Court of the United States, this discretion is termed the granting of a writ of certiorari (\"cert\"). This discretion was not granted to the Court until 1891, after its docket became clogged with \"pro forma\" appeals from lower courts. Congress then created the United States court of appeals system divided into nine regional circuits, with the Supreme Court generally only hearing cases from the appellate level or from the highest state court. The Judiciary Act of 1925 further expanded certiorari, authorizing the court to determine any case from a lower level concerning \"federal questions of substance\". Today, 98 percent of federal cases are decided at the appellate level. In 1988, Congress further limited appeals with the Supreme Court Case Selections Act, eliminating the right of appeal from certain state court decisions construing federal law.\n\nA similar model holds in most U.S. state judiciaries, with discretionary review only available to the state's supreme court, and the appeals courts bound to hear all appeals. In North Carolina, the supreme court's choice to exercise discretionary review depends not on whether the case was decided correctly with regard to the defendant's guilt, but on whether the particular legal questions raised in the appeal have a public interest, involve important legal principles, or conflict with precedents set by prior supreme courts. In Texas, discretionary review is granted to both of the state's supreme courts (Texas is one of two states with separate supreme courts for civil and criminal cases) for all but death penalty cases, which the Court of Criminal Appeals is required to review, bypassing the Texas Courts of Appeals.\n\nThe 1937 Constitution of Ireland originally provided a right of appeal to the Supreme Court for all cases from the High Court. A 2013 amendment introduced a new Court of Appeal, above the High Court and below the Supreme Court, which is the usual court of final appeal. The Supreme Court now has discretion whether to hear appeals from the Court of Appeal or, exceptionally, directly from the High Court.\n"}
{"id": "1853472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853472", "title": "Dog-whistle politics", "text": "Dog-whistle politics\n\nDog-whistle politics is political messaging employing coded language that appears to mean one thing to the general population but has an additional, different, or more specific resonance for a targeted subgroup. The analogy is to a dog whistle, whose ultrasonic whistling sound is heard by dogs but inaudible to humans.\n\nThe term can be distinguished from \"code words\" used in some specialist professions, in that dog-whistling is specific to the political realm. The messaging referred to as the dog-whistle has an understandable meaning for a general audience, rather than being incomprehensible.\n\nAccording to William Safire, the term \"dog whistle\" in reference to politics may have been derived from its use in the field of opinion polling. Safire quotes Richard Morin, director of polling for \"The Washington Post\", as writing in 1988,subtle changes in question-wording sometimes produce remarkably different results... researchers call this the 'Dog Whistle Effect': Respondents hear something in the question that researchers do notand speculates that campaign workers adapted the phrase from political pollsters.\n\nIn her 2006 book, \"Voting for Jesus: Christianity and Politics in Australia\", academic Amanda Lohrey writes that the goal of the dog-whistle is to appeal to the greatest possible number of electors while alienating the smallest possible number. She uses as an example Australian politicians using broadly appealing words such as \"family\" and \"values\", which have extra resonance for Christians, while avoiding overt Christian moralizing that might be a turn-off for non-Christian voters.\n\nAustralian political theorist Robert E. Goodin argues that the problem with dog-whistling is that it undermines democracy, because if voters have different understandings of what they were supporting during a campaign, the fact that they were seeming to support the same thing is \"democratically meaningless\" and does not give the dog-whistler a policy mandate.\n\nThe term was first picked up in Australian politics in the mid-1990s, and was frequently applied to the political campaigning of John Howard. Throughout his 11 years as Australian prime minister and particularly in his fourth term, Howard was accused of communicating messages appealing to anxious Australian voters using code words such as \"un-Australian\", \"mainstream\", and \"illegals\".\n\nOne notable example was the Howard government's message on refugee arrivals. The Howard government's tough stance on refugee arrivals was popular with voters, but the government was accused of using the issue to additionally send veiled messages of support to voters with racist leanings, while maintaining plausible deniability by avoiding overtly racist language. Another example is the publicity of the Australian citizenship test in 2007. It has been argued that the test may appear reasonable at face value, but is really intended to appeal to those opposing immigration from particular geographic regions.\n\nDuring the 2015 Canadian federal election, the Conservative party led by incumbent Prime Minister Stephen Harper was accused of communicating 'code' words in a debate to appeal to his party's base supporters. Midway through the election campaign the Conservative Party hired Australian political strategist Lynton Crosby as a political adviser when they fell to third place in the polls behind the Liberal Party and the New Democratic Party. During a televised election debate Stephen Harper, while discussing the government's controversial decision to remove certain immigrants and refugee claimants from accessing Canada's health care system made reference to 'Old Stock Canadians' as being in support of the government's position. Opposition leader reacted calling his words racist and divisive.\n\nIn France, the phrase \"a band of youths\" in Paris tends to mean North African descent.\n\nLynton Crosby, who had previously managed John Howard's four election campaigns in Australia, worked as a Conservative Party adviser during the 2005 UK general election, and the term was introduced to British political discussion at this time. In what Goodin calls \"the classic case\" of dog-whistling, Crosby created a campaign for the Conservatives with the slogan \"Are you thinking what we're thinking?\": a series of posters, billboards, TV commercials and direct mail pieces with messages like \"It's not racist to impose limits on immigration\" and \"how would you feel if a bloke on early release attacked your daughter?\" focused on controversial issues like unsanitary hospitals, land grabs by gypsies and restraints on police behaviour.\n\nLabour MP Diane Abbott described the 2013 \"Go Home\" vans advertising campaign by the British Home Office as an example of dog-whistle politics.\n\nIn April 2016 Mayor of London and Conservative MP Boris Johnson was accused of \"dog whistle racism\" by Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer and Labour MP John McDonnell when Johnson suggested US President Barack Obama held a grudge against the United Kingdom due to his \"ancestral dislike of the British Empire\" as a result of his \"part-Kenyan\" heritage after Obama expressed his support for the UK to vote to remain in the European Union ahead of the UK's referendum on EU membership.\n\nIn the 2016 London Mayoral Election, Conservative candidate Zac Goldsmith was accused of running a dog-whistle campaign against Labour's Sadiq Khan, playing on Khan's Muslim faith by suggesting he would target Hindus and Sikhs with a \"jewellery tax\" and attempting to link him to extremists.\n\nThe phrase \"states' rights\", literally referring to powers of individual state governments in the United States, was described in 2007 by David Greenberg in \"Slate\" as \"code words\" for institutionalized segregation and racism. \"States rights\" was the banner under which groups like the Defenders of State Sovereignty and Individual Liberties argued in 1955 against school desegregation. In 1981, former Republican Party strategist Lee Atwater, when giving an anonymous interview discussing Nixon's Southern Strategy, said:\n\nAtwater was contrasting this with Ronald Reagan's campaign, which he felt \"was devoid of any kind of racism, any kind of reference.\" However, others like U.S. law professor and author of the 2014 book \"Dog Whistle Politics\" Ian Haney-López described Reagan as \"blowing a dog whistle\" when the candidate told stories about \"Cadillac-driving 'welfare queens' and 'strapping young bucks' buying T-bone steaks with food stamps\" while he was campaigning for the presidency. He argues that such rhetoric pushes middle-class white Americans to vote against their economic self-interest in order to punish \"undeserving minorities\" who, they believe, are receiving too much public assistance at their expense. According to López, conservative middle-class whites, convinced by powerful economic interests that minorities are the enemy, supported politicians who promised to curb illegal immigration and crack down on crime but inadvertently also voted for policies that favor the extremely rich, such as slashing taxes for top income brackets, giving corporations more regulatory control over industry and financial markets, union busting, cutting pensions for future public employees, reducing funding for public schools, and retrenching the social welfare state. He argues that these same voters cannot link rising inequality which has impacted their lives to the policy agendas they support, which resulted in a massive transfer of wealth to the top 1% of the population since the 1980s.\n\nJournalist Craig Unger wrote that President George W. Bush and Karl Rove used coded \"dog-whistle\" language in political campaigning, delivering one message to the overall electorate while at the same time delivering quite a different message to a targeted evangelical Christian political base. William Safire, in \"Safire's Political Dictionary\", offered the example of Bush's criticism during the 2004 presidential campaign of the U.S. Supreme Court's 1857 Dred Scott decision denying the U. S. citizenship of any African American. To most listeners the criticism seemed innocuous, Safire wrote, but \"sharp-eared observers\" understood the remark to be a pointed reminder that Supreme Court decisions can be reversed, and a signal that, if re-elected, Bush might nominate to the Supreme Court a justice who would overturn \"Roe v. Wade\". This view is echoed in a 2004 \"Los Angeles Times\" article by Peter Wallsten.\n\nDuring the 2008 Democratic primaries, several writers criticized Hillary Clinton's campaign's reliance on code words and innuendo seemingly designed to frame Barack Obama's race as problematic, saying Obama was characterized by the Clinton campaign and its prominent supporters as anti-white due to his association with Reverend Jeremiah Wright, as able to attract only black votes, as anti-patriotic, a drug user, possibly a drug seller, and married to an angry, ungrateful black woman. \n\nIn 2012, journalist Soledad O'Brien used the phrase \"dog whistle\" to describe Tea Party Express representative Amy Kremer's accusation that President Barack Obama \"does not love America\".\n\nAlso in that election cycle, Obama's campaign ran an ad that said Mitt Romney was \"not one of us\". The ad, which \"Washington Post\" journalist Karen Tumulty said \"echoes a slogan that has been used as a racial code over at least the past half-century\", ran in Ohio, a state that is only 0.52% Mormon.\n\nDuring the 2014 Republican senate primary in Mississippi, a scandal emerged with politicians accused of attempting to influence the public by using such \"code words\" as \"food stamps\". Senator Ted Cruz called for an investigation, saying that \"the ads they ran were racially-charged false attacks\".\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election campaign and during his presidency, Donald Trump was accused of using racial \"dog whistling\" techniques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39333522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39333522", "title": "Domicilium citandi et executandi", "text": "Domicilium citandi et executandi\n\nDomicilium citandi et executandi is a Latin legal term meaning the address nominated by a party in a legal contract where legal notices may be sent; the onus usually being upon that party to notify the other signatory of any change in address, especially to be ready to receive any notice that is delivered to that address.\n\nFor instance, the delivery of a legal notice to the address of the \"domicilium citandi et executandi\" of a party to a contract can be considered legally sufficient for that notice to be considered received by that party, without the need for the person giving notice actually to find the person.\n\nOne or both parties to a contract may demand the other nominate a \"domicilium citandi et executandi\", typically in order to expedite later legal procedures relating to a contract by making it impossible for a party to claim that a legal notice was not received.\n\nThe literal translation from Latin into English is \"house for summoning and upkeep\".\n\nThe Latin term is commonly used within the legal jurisdiction of Zimbabwe and South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "3553038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3553038", "title": "Evidence under Bayes theorem", "text": "Evidence under Bayes theorem\n\nThe use of evidence under Bayes' theorem relates to the likelihood of finding evidence in relation to the accused, where Bayes' theorem concerns the probability of an event and its inverse. Specifically, it compares the probability of finding particular evidence if the accused were guilty, versus if they were not guilty. An example would be the probability of finding a person's hair at the scene, if guilty, versus if just passing through the scene. Another issue would be finding a person's DNA where they lived, regardless of committing a crime there.\n\nAmong evidence scholars, the study of evidence in recent decades has become broadly interdisciplinary, incorporating insights from psychology, economics, and probability theory. One area of particular interest and controversy has been Bayes' theorem.\nBayes' theorem is an elementary proposition of probability theory. It provides a way of updating, in light of new information, one’s probability that a proposition is true. Evidence scholars have been interested in its application to their field, either to study the value of rules of evidence, or to help determine facts at trial. \n\nSuppose, that the proposition to be proven is that defendant was the source of a hair found at the crime scene. Before learning that the hair was a genetic match for the defendant’s hair, the factfinder believes that the odds are 2 to 1 that the defendant was the source of the hair. If she used Bayes’ theorem, she could multiply those prior odds by a “likelihood ratio” in order to update her odds after learning that the hair matched the defendant’s hair. The likelihood ratio is a statistic derived by comparing the odds that the evidence (expert testimony of a match) would be found if the defendant was the source with the odds that it would be found if defendant was not the source. If it is ten times more likely that the testimony of a match would occur if the defendant was the source than if not, then the factfinder should multiply her prior odds by ten, giving posterior odds of 20 to one. \n\nBayesian skeptics have objected to this use of Bayes’ theorem in litigation on a variety of grounds. These run from jury confusion and computational complexity to the assertion that standard probability theory is not a normatively satisfactory basis for adjudication of rights. \n\nBayesian enthusiasts have replied on two fronts. First, they have said that whatever its value in litigation, Bayes' theorem is valuable in studying evidence rules. For example, it can be used to model relevance. It teaches that the relevance of evidence that a proposition is true depends on how much the evidence changes the prior odds, and that how much it changes the prior odds depends on how likely the evidence would be found (or not) if the proposition were true. These basic insights are also useful in studying individual evidence rules, such as the rule allowing witnesses to be impeached with prior convictions. \n\nSecond, they have said that it is practical to use Bayes' theorem in a limited set of circumstances in litigation (such as integrating genetic match evidence with other evidence), and that assertions that probability theory is inappropriate for judicial determinations are nonsensical or inconsistent. \n\nSome observers believe that in recent years (i) the debate about probabilities has become stagnant, (ii) the protagonists in the probabilities debate have been talking past each other, (iii) not much is happening at the high-theory level, and (iv) the most interesting work is in the empirical study of the efficacy of instructions on Bayes’ theorem in improving jury accuracy. However, it is possible that this skepticism about the probabilities debate in law rests on observations of the arguments made by familiar protagonists in the legal academy. In fields outside of law, work on formal theories relating to uncertainty continues unabated. One important development has been the work on \"soft computing\" such as has been carried on, for example, at Berkeley under Lotfi Zadeh's BISC (Berkeley Initiative in Soft Computing). Another example is the increasing amount of work, by people both in and outside law, on \"argumentation\" theory. Also, work on Bayes nets continues. Some of this work is beginning to filter into legal circles. See, for example, the many papers on formal approaches to uncertainty (including Bayesian approaches) in the Oxford journal: Law, Probability and Risk . In retrospect it may appear that the discussion about formal argument about factual uncertainty in law was just beginning in the last quarter of the twentieth century.\n\nThere are some famous cases where Bayes' theorem can be applied.\n\n"}
{"id": "1742307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742307", "title": "External risk", "text": "External risk\n\nExternal risks are generally something that is uncontrollable by the first party.\n\nIn contract law, are risks that are produced by a non-human source and are beyond human control. They are unexpected but happen regularly enough in a general population to be broadly predictable, and may be the subject of casualty insurance.\nGood examples of external risks are natural disasters such as earthquakes and volcanoes.\n\nInsurance adjusters analyze external risks on a normal basis. Measuring risks of the environment is common practice throughout insurance claims. As far as claims go, most external risks, or an \"Act of God\", are protected by property insurance.\n\nIn project management; Risks that are external to the project and the project manager cannot control.\nGood examples of external risks are changes in government legislation, changes in strategy from senior managers, and the economy.\n\n\nThree separate aspects should be analyzed when determining the amount of external risk that exists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2053439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2053439", "title": "Fireworks law in the United Kingdom", "text": "Fireworks law in the United Kingdom\n\nFireworks in the UK are governed primarily by the Fireworks Regulations 2004 (under powers delegated from the Fireworks Act 2003), the Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015, and British Standards BS 7114 until 4/7/17 and BS-EN 15947-2015.\n\nBS 7114 defines four 'categories' for fireworks.\n\nPeople under the age of 18 are not allowed to buy fireworks, nor possess them in a public place. This was increased from 16 in 1997.\n\nOtherwise, all fireworks, since 1997, must comply with BS7114, and be marked accordingly and fall into one of the following three categories:\n\n\nUnder BS14035, there are also now Category 2 fireworks that require a longer distance of 8 metres, providing potentially better effects than 5 metre fireworks but without the fallout of Category 3 fireworks.\n\nFireworks of louder than 120dBA at 15 metres cannot be sold to the public.\n\nIt is not illegal for a firework to be set off at less than the minimum safely viewable distance; however, in the event of any injury to a spectator, the firer might be liable if the distance was too short.\n\nA Category 3 firework will contain no more than 1 kg net explosive content in the case of combinations and fountains, except for fountain combinations, which can contain up to 3 kg of net explosive content.\n\n\nThe law considers a firework professional to be someone employed in a business that fires fireworks, such as a firework display outlet, or a stagehand. In practice, most stores that sell Category 4 fireworks do ask for proof of training; most category 4 professionals are trained under the British Pyrotechnists Association Professional Firers Training Scheme, although equally legitimate professional competency courses, recognised under current legislation, are provided by some commercial organisations such as Illuminate Consult. Company directors are liable under the Health and Safety at Work Act for the safety of their employees, and prosecutions have occurred.\n\n\nIn terms of transport and storage, fireworks with a 'minor blast hazard', UN Category 1.3g are distinguished from those without that hazard, namely UN category 1.4g. Fireworks containing more than 25 grams of flash powder will be in category 1.3g, and many fall into Category 3, legal for public sale; however the cost of complying with storage regulations means that retailers may choose not to sell 1.3g fireworks.\n\nConsumers may hold up to 5 kg NEC 1.4G fireworks for personal use for an unlimited time and 50 kg NEC up to 21 days. For 1.3G fireworks, 5 kg can also be kept for an unlimited time and up to 100 kg for 5 days. Any amount of either 1.3g or 1.4g may be held for up to 24 hours. If storing for longer periods, a license is required if storing more than 5 kg NEC (Net Explosive Content).\n\nExcept for specially licensed year-round firework shops, fireworks are only for sale for Chinese New Year and three days prior, Diwali and three days prior, from 15 October to 10 November (for Guy Fawkes Night), and from 26 to 31 December (for New Year). Typically supermarkets and other general retail outlets sell fireworks in the October–November period and for new year, but do not sell at the other periods in most areas.\n\nUsing or buying fireworks illegally can result in a £5,000 fine or imprisonment for up to 6 months.\n\nFireworks must not be let off between 11pm and 7am, except on Chinese New Year, Diwali and New Year's Eve, when the period is extended until 1am, and on Guy Fawkes Night, when the period is extended until midnight.\n\nIt is illegal to set off fireworks (including sparklers) in the street or public place. Section 28 of the Town Police Clauses Act 1847 prohibits setting off, or throwing fireworks in the street. Breaking these laws can result in an on-the-spot fine of £90.\n\nIt should also be borne in mind that the regulations are different in Northern Ireland, where any purchase or use of fireworks requires a licence (this includes personal, back garden displays).\n\nIn the UK, the most common injuries are burns from hand-held fireworks such as sparklers. People are also injured by projectiles fired from fireworks, often due to incorrect use. Other issues include the dangers of falling rocket sticks, especially from larger rockets containing metal motors.\n\n\"Shock\" adverts were used in the 1970s and 80s in an attempt to restrict injuries from fireworks, targeted at young people.\n\n"}
{"id": "6478182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6478182", "title": "General denial", "text": "General denial\n\nIn pleading, a general denial is a denial that relates to all allegations which are not otherwise pleaded to. Many legal systems provide that in a statement of defense, any allegation made by the plaintiff which is not traversed (i.e. specifically denied or \"not-admitted\") is deemed to have been admitted by the defendants. Accordingly, it became common practice to add a general denial at the end of a statement of defense to make sure that nothing was accidentally admitted in this fashion.\n\nIn English law, the usual form of general denial was normally phrased:\n"}
{"id": "14148860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14148860", "title": "Gun laws in Norway", "text": "Gun laws in Norway\n\nGun laws in Norway incorporates the political and regulatory aspects of firearms usage in the country. Citizens are allowed to keep firearms (most commonly for hunting and sports shooting). The acquisition and storage of guns is regulated by the state.\n\nFirearms in Norway are regulated by the Firearm Weapons Act, with a new secondary law in effect 1 July 2009 providing more detailed regulation. The act covers all firearms, air pressure weapons, and some \"exotic arms\" as the act defines. All weapons that would be regulated must have two things in common: they must eject a projectile mechanically and use some form of propellant to perform the ejection. The act includes military type weapons, flare guns and replicas that can \"easily\" be converted to working firearms. Guns owned and operated under the responsibility of the armed forces and the police are excepted from the civilian weapons act.\n\nThe detailed interpretation of the law is laid out in another regulation.\n\nSuppressors are not regulated under Norwegian law, and may be purchased by anyone. Suppressors are also legal while hunting, and seen as a necessity for more comfortable shooting and to lower the environmental impact of noise.\n\nNorway has a large population of hunters. Semi-automatic and bolt action rifles, as well as shotguns, make up the better part of the guns in civilian homes. There is a total ban on automatic firearms for civilians, unless they fall into the collector category. Modification of semi-automatic guns into fully automatic without the consent of the police is a felony crime.\n\nHandguns have some calibre restrictions. A Smith & Wesson Model 500, for example, is illegal due to its high power, but other, less powerful guns, are legal as they are used in sports shooting. Norway has a long tradition of high-end sports shooting competitions, especially rifle shooting. Each calibre must be used in some type of competition to be allowed. Also, there is a restriction on the number of weapons an owner can have for each calibre. For recreational shooters, only one gun is allowed in each calibre. For professional and semi-professional shooters, a spare gun is allowed. A recreational shooter is only allowed to own four different handguns. To obtain more, documentation on extensive involvement in sport shooting is needed.\n\nGun ownership is restricted in Norway, unless one has officially documented a use for the gun. By far the most common grounds for civilian ownership are hunting and sports shooting, in that order. Other needs can include special guard duties or self-defense, but the first is rare unless the person shows identification confirming that he or she is a trained guard or member of a law-enforcement agency.\n\nThere are special rules for collectors of guns. They are exempt from many parts of the regulation, but, in turn, they must meet even narrower qualifications. Collectors may purchase, but not fire without permission, all kinds of guns in their respective areas of interest, which they have defined in advance.\n\nOwnership is regulated in paragraph 7, and responsibility for issuing a gun ownership license is given to the police authority in the applicant's district.\n\nRifle and shotgun ownership permission can be given to \"sober and responsible\" persons 18 years or older. The applicant for the permission must document a need for the weapon. Two exceptions exist to this age qualification. Persons under the age of 18, but over 16 may apply for rifle or shotgun ownership licence with the consent of parents or guardian. For handguns, the lowest ownership age is 21 with no exceptions allowed. For inherited weapons, it is up to the local police chief to make a decision based on the individual facts of the case.\n\nAn applicant must have a clean police record in order to obtain an ownership license.\n\nThere are two ways of obtaining an ownership license in Norway. The most common is through the process of obtaining a hunting license, the other is through a sports shooting license.\n\nTo obtain a hunting license, the applicant must complete a 30-hour, 9-session course and pass a written multiple choice exam. The course includes firearm theory, firearm training, wildlife theory, and environmental protection training.\n\nOnce the exam is passed, the applicant may enroll in the hunter registry and receive a hunting license. The membership must be renewed each year, through license payment. The hunting license is brought to the police station, where the applicant fills out an application for obtaining the proper firearm for his or her hunt. After evaluation, part of the application is sent back to the applicant if it was approved. Upon approval, the applicant can take the returned form to the store and purchase the firearm listed in the application.\n\nThe qualification process for sporting is theoretically easier, but requires more time and practice. The applicant must enroll in a firearm safety course, lasting at least 9 hours. The course includes a written test, but is shorter than the hunting exam, as it only deals with firearm safety. Two thirds of the course are completed on the shooting range as practice. The passing of the test results in acceptance to the approved gun club, and a license for competition. However, while the hunters can obtain their firearm almost at once, sports shooters must prove their intentions to compete by actively training or competing in the gun club. This means regular attendance (at least 15 times) at gun club training over the course of six months. The applicant must use firearms owned by the club or borrowed at the range for this period. After six months, the applicant may apply for weapon ownership. The start license and a written recommendation from the gun club president are brought to the police station, and the competition class is filled out on the application. If approved, it will be returned to the applicant as with the hunter license.\n\nIn both cases, if the application is rejected, the applicant is allowed an explanation of the reason, and an appeal.\n\nFor competitive shooters in Det frivillige Skyttervesen (DFS) you will need an active membership for 6 months, and limitations for membership is Norwegian Nationals only. There is training course for youth from age 8 and up to 18, for adults an introduction to safety and behavior on the range is given, no written exams are required. Active members can apply for rifles approved by DFS competitions such as Sauer 200 STR in caliber 6.5×55 Scan, 308 Win, and 22lr only, Other approved rifles is Krag-Jørgensen, Mauser M98, and other competition bolt action rifles in 22lr with trigger pull of 1.5 kg\n\nThe law for storage of firearms are strict.\n\nFor shotguns and rifles, the requirement given in the weapons act is to have the firearm, or a vital part of it, securely locked away. Generally, this means an approved gun safe, securely bolted to a non-removable part of the house. (A vital part is considered to be the bolt group—the bolt head will suffice—for rifles, the slide for pistols, or the barrel of a shotgun.)\n\nThe police are allowed to make a home inspection of the safe. An inspection must be announced more than 48 hours in advance, and the police are only allowed to see the safe and make sure it is legally installed.\n\nAmmunition is generally only sold to persons with valid weapon license. However, if one is in possession of a legally unregistered shotgun bought before 1 April 1990, and is in the hunter registry, one can purchase shotgun ammunition. Without a special permit only 10,000 rounds of ammunition can be stored by a single person, or 15,000 rounds if 5,000 of them are 22LR or smaller calibre. Two kg of black powder may be stored in a separate building if the person has a license for a black-powder firearm.\n\nOlder rules stated that the ammunition must be locked away separately, but these rules were abandoned in the latest revision of the weapons act.\n\nThe owner must always have a good reason to bring the weapon to a public place. Such reasons include transportation to a range or hunting area, transportation for repairs, or for maintenance and hobby activities.\n\nDuring transportation, the weapon must be empty and concealed, but not worn on the body, and under the constant supervision of the owner. This applies equally to replicas, air guns and decommissioned firearms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1670504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1670504", "title": "Hakham Bashi", "text": "Hakham Bashi\n\nHakham Bashi (, , ) is the Turkish name for the Chief Rabbi of the nation's Jewish community. In the time of the Ottoman Empire it was also used for the chief rabbi of a particular region of the empire, such as Syria or Iraq, though the Hakham Bashi of Constantinople was considered overall head of the Jews of the Empire.\n\"Hakham\" is Hebrew for \"wise man\" (or \"scholar\"), while \"başı\" is Turkish for \"head\".\nThe institution of the \"Hakham Bashi\" was established by the Ottoman Sultan Mehmet II, as part of his policy of governing his exceedingly diverse subjects according to their own laws and authorities wherever possible. Religion was considered as primordial aspect of a communities 'national' identity, so the term Ethnarch has been applied to such religious leaders, especially the (Greek Orthodox) Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople (i.e. in the Sultan's imperial capital, renamed Istanbul in 1930 but replaced by Ankara as republican capital in 1923). As Islam was the official religion of both court and state, the Chief Mufti in Istanbul had a much higher status, even of cabinet rank.\n\nBecause of the size and nature of the Ottoman state, containing a far greater part of the diaspora than any other, the position of Hakham Bashi has been compared to that of the Jewish Exilarch.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, and as such, the \"Hakham Bashi\" was the closest thing to an overall Exilarchal authority among Jewry everywhere in the Middle East in early modern times. They held broad powers to legislate, judge and enforce the laws among the Jews in the Ottoman Empire and often sat on the Sultan's divan.\n\nThe office also maintained considerable influence outside the Ottoman Empire, especially after the forced migration of numerous Jewish communities and individuals out of Spain (after the fall of Granada in 1492) and Italy.\n\nThe Chief Rabbi of the modern, secular Republic of Turkey is still known as \"Hahambaşı\".\n\nThe term \"Hakham Bashi\" was also used for the official Government-appointed Chief Rabbi of other important cities in the Ottoman Empire, such as Damascus and Baghdad. In particular, the position of Hakham Bashi of Palestine was the precursor of that of Sephardic Chief Rabbi of Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40309382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40309382", "title": "Hans Jürgen Teuteberg", "text": "Hans Jürgen Teuteberg\n\nHans Jürgen Teuteberg (18 December 1929–14 February 2015) was a German historian, who worked as a professor of social and economic history at the University of Münster from 1974 to 1995.\n\nTeuteberg's \"magnum opus\" was his \"History of Industrial Codetermination in Germany\" (1961) or \"Geschichte der Industriellen Mitbestimmung in Deutschland\". This exhaustively examined the legal origins of codetermination laws, which are found in a majority of EU countries today, that give workers a right to participate in the management of their companies or organisations. Teuteberg traces the roots of codetermination back to Carl Degenkolb's proposals at the Frankfurt Parliament during the 1848 Revolutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5492491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5492491", "title": "Henry W. Bloch", "text": "Henry W. Bloch\n\nHenry Wollman Bloch (born July 30, 1922) is an American businessman and philanthropist. He is the co-founder and (since 2000) the chairman \"emeritus\" of the American tax-preparation company H&R Block. Henry and his brother, Richard Bloch, founded H&R Block in 1955 in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nBloch was born to a Jewish family in Kansas City where he attended Southwest High School, and was an undergraduate at University of Missouri–Kansas City. He later attended the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan, graduating in 1944. Through the U.S. Army Air Corps he received graduate training at the Harvard Business School in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nBloch founded the H&R Block company with his brother Richard in 1955.\n\nIn 1951, Bloch married Marion Helzberg; they had four children: Robert Bloch, Thomas Bloch, Mary Jo Bloch Brown, and Elizabeth Bloch Uhlmann and lived in the Kansas City metropolitan area.\n\nThe Henry Wollman Bloch Fountain in front of Kansas City's Union Station is named in his honor, as is the Henry W. Bloch School of Management at the University of Missouri–Kansas City and the Bloch Building, a major addition to Kansas City's Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art.\n\nBloch was inducted into the Junior Achievement's U.S. Business Hall of Fame in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "3924629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924629", "title": "Hologram trademark", "text": "Hologram trademark\n\nA hologram trademark is a non-conventional trademark where a hologram is used to perform the trademark function of uniquely identifying the commercial origin of products or services.\n\nIn recent times holograms have been increasingly used as trade marks in the marketplace. However, it has traditionally been difficult to protect holograms as trademarks through registration, as a hologram was not considered to be a 'trademark'. This issue was addressed by the World Trade Organization Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, which broadened the legal definition of trademark to encompass \"any sign...capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings\" (article 15(1)).\n\nDespite the recognition which must be accorded to holograms trademarks in most countries in other fields of the art, the \"graphical representation\" of such marks sometimes constitutes a problem for trademark owners seeking to protect their marks, and different countries have different methods for dealing with this issue.\n\nIn Canada, hologram trademarks are generally not acceptable if they cannot be represented graphically or if they are regarded as more than one mark, see first external link.\n\nIn the European Union, Article 4 of \"Council Regulation (EC) No. 40-94\" of 20 December 1993 (\"signs of which a Community Trade Mark may consist\") relevantly states that any CTM may consist of \"any signs capable of being represented graphically...provided that such signs are capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings\". In Sieckmann v German Patent Office (case C-273/00) the EcJ states that graphical representation, preferably means by images, lines or characters, and that the representation must be clear, precise, self-contained, easily accessible, intelligible, durable and objective.\n\nThis definition generally encompasses only very simply structured holograms, and therefore an applicant for a CTM may use one photograph or some views to graphically represent their trade mark, see first external link.\n\nIn the United States, the trademark manual for examination requires under 1202.14 that a hologram used in varying forms does not function as a mark in the absence of evidence that consumers would perceive it as a trademark. See In re Upper Deck Co., 59 USPQ2d 1688 (TTAB 2001), where the Board held that a hologram used on trading cards in varying shapes, sizes, and positions did not function as a mark, because the record showed that other companies used holograms on trading cards and other products as anti-counterfeiting devices, and there was no evidence that the public would perceive applicant's hologram as an indicator of source. The Board noted that \"the common use of holograms for non-trademark purposes means that consumers would be less likely to perceive applicant's uses of holograms as trademarks.\" 59 USPQ2d at 1693. \nTherefore, in the absence of evidence of consumer recognition as a mark, the examining attorney should refuse registration on the ground that the hologram does not function as a mark, under §§1, 2 and 45 of the Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. §§1051, 1052 and 1127. Generally, if a hologram has two or more views, the examining attorney should also refuse registration under §§1 and 45 of the Trademark Act, 15 U.S.C. §§1051 and 1127, on the ground that the application seeks registration of more than one mark. In re Upper Deck, supra. See TMEP §807.01. \nProvided the applicant can demonstrate that the use of a hologram or moving image both serves as a mark and is not functional, an application for such a mark may be made to either register. That being said, Examining Attorneys are instructed to refuse an application for registration of a hologram if the applicant does not provide evidence of consumer recognition of the hologram as a mark. the applicant seeking registration of a hologram must submit a drawing of the mark that captures the dimensions thereof. Further, Examiners are instructed to refuse registration of any holograms that show two different images on the grounds that the application is seeking protection for two separate marks. Further, the application must include detailed written description of the mark. During publication the drawing pages for these marks are published and thereafter the drawing page is incorporated into the registration certificate which is made available at the USPTO as well as the USPTO website, see first external link.\n\n"}
{"id": "362675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362675", "title": "Interpleader", "text": "Interpleader\n\nInterpleader is civil procedure that allows a plaintiff or a defendant to initiate a lawsuit in order to compel two or more other parties to litigate a dispute. An interpleader action originates when the plaintiff holds property on behalf of another, but does not know to whom the property should be transferred. It is often used to resolve disputes arising under insurance contracts.\n\nIn an interpleader action, the party initiating the litigation, normally the plaintiff, is termed the \"stakeholder\". The money or other property in controversy is called the \"res\". All defendants having a possible interest in the subject matter of the case are called \"claimants\". In some jurisdictions, the plaintiff is referred to as the \"plaintiff-in-interpleader\" and each claimant a \"claimant-in-interpleader\".\n\nAn interpleader proceeding has two stages. The first stage determines if the stakeholder is entitled to an interpleader and if he should be discharged from liability. The second stage is like an action at law to determine which of the claimants is entitled to the res.\n\nFor example, suppose a person dies with a life insurance policy. However, the insurance company knows there will be a dispute over who should receive the proceeds. The insurance company can file an interpleader action. The insurance company is the stakeholder, the claimants are the persons who might be beneficiaries under the policy, and the cash value of the policy benefit is the \"res\". Under the proceeding as originally developed, the stakeholder would deposit the \"res\" with the court, and then the defendants would have their claims adjudicated by the court. Statutory modifications to the procedure, which vary by jurisdiction, sometimes allow the stakeholder to retain the \"res\" pending final disposition of the case. Typically, once the stakeholder deposits the \"res\" into the court (for example, the face value of the insurance policy), the stakeholder is released from the action and the claimants proceed against each other to determine which of them is legally entitled to the \"res\". A disinterested stakeholder is entitled to costs including attorney's fees. Except for the denominations of the parties, the action proceeds for the most part as other civil lawsuits in the same jurisdiction.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the \"res\" will earn interest at the legal rate until disbursed. The successful claimant is entitled to the interest as well as the principal.\n\nInterpleader had its origins as a civil procedure at common law, which was later adopted and expanded by the Court of Chancery in its equitable jurisprudence. The common law procedure became obsolete over time and fell into disuse, but it remained active in the courts of equity.\n\nIt originally applied to bailees subject to multiple actions of detinue, and privity was required either between the parties or in detinue, in order for the defendant to be able to sue for garnishment.\n\nIn contrast, the equitable bill of interpleader required that:\n\n\nIn 1831 Parliament passed the Interpleader Act 1831 that authorized a bill of interpleader to be brought in the common law courts (such as the Court of Common Pleas) by:\n\nStatutory interpleader was extended by Common Law Procedure Act 1860, which allowed a defendant in Courts of Law to interplead claimants even if title of the claimants to the \"res\" have no common origin, but are adverse to and independent of one another.\n\nThe statutory rules governing interpleader proceedings were replaced by rules of court that came into force upon the passage of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873 (as amended by the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1875), which came to be known as Order 17 of the Rules of the Supreme Court. A similar provision was enacted in the County Court Rules, known as Order 33 in the Rules of 1981.\n\nIn cases where a person was subject to multiple claims, the applicant had to show that he:\n\nAs a result of the coming into force of Part 3 and Schedule 12 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 on 6 April 2014, Order 17 and Order 33 were replaced by the new Parts 83-86 of the Civil Procedure Rules. This replaced the interpleader proceedings previously governed by the court rules by the procedure of \"enforcement by taking control of goods\" under newly passed regulations. In addition, s. 65 of the 2007 Act declared:\n\nProcedures are in effect for claims where:\n\nThe 2014 amendments have proved to be problematic, in that they now fail to cover a situation where:\n\nIn February 2018, several High Court enforcement officers asked the Queen's Bench Division for directions as to how to proceed in such circumstances, and the Master ruled that the repeal of Rule 17 had the effect of reviving the equitable form of interpleader proceedings, as the 2007 Act did not expressly abolish the interpleader action itself, and \"interpleader statutes are not at all to limit or affect the equitable jurisdiction of the court to entertain an interpleader suit or action.\"\n\nFormerly a plaintiff had to disavow any claim to the \"res\" in order to avail himself of the interpleader remedy, but this requirement has also been relaxed or abolished in most jurisdictions by there being a Bill in the Nature of Interpleader rather than a strict bill of interpleader. A plaintiff may now argue that neither of the claimants has a right to the property at issue. For example, a person dies with a life insurance policy that excludes coverage for suicide. Two people come forward claiming to be the beneficiary named in the policy. The insurance company believes that the deceased committed suicide, but the claimants believe the death was by accident. The insurance company could interplead the two claimants and simultaneously deny the claims.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States ruled in New York Life v. Dunlevy , that for a claimant to be bound by an interpleader that party must be served process in a way that obtains personal jurisdiction. In 1922 the United States Supreme Court in Liberty Oil Co. v. Condon Nat. Bank sustained that a defensive interpeader in an action at law in federal court could be taken under Judicial Code section 274b added by that authorized the interposing of equitable defenses in actions at law.\n\nThe Federal Interpleader Act of 1917 was enacted by the 64th United States Congress approved February 22, 1917 to overcome the problem with an interpleader when the claimants live in different states raised in New York Life v. Dunlevy. Federal Interpleader Act of 1917 allowed an insurance company, or fraternal benefit society subject to multiple claims on the same policy to file a suit in equity by a bill of interpleader in United States District Courts and providing nationwide service of process. The policy must have a value of at least $500 claimed were claimed or may be claimed by adverse claimants; which is less than the amount in controversy of $3,000 in Judicial Code §48(1) then required for general diversity jurisdiction and two or more of the beneficiaries must live in different states. In 1926 it was repealed and replaced by, approved May 8, 1926, which added to those who can bring suit casualty company and surety company, empowered the court to enjoin claimant from proceeding in any state or other federal court on the same liability, adding provisions as to the proper venue for the interpleader in certain cases but required that there must be actual claims by eliminating the words \"may claim\" that were in the 1917 act. In 1936 the Federal Interpeader Act was again repealed and replaced by the Federal Interpleader Act of 1936, , approved Jan. 20, 1936, drafted by Zechariah Chafee which codified it in as United States Judicial Code §41(26), and established the modern statutory interpleader allowing suite to be brought by any person, firm, corporation, association or society having custody of money or property or insurance policy or instrument valued at $500 or more which there are two or more adverse claimant who are citizens of different states, whether or not the claims have common origins, identical, adverse or independent of each other, and allowed it to be an in actions at law, Judicial Code §274b. When the United States Judicial Code was enacted into United States Code as positive law in 1948, approved June 25, 1948, it was reconstituted as , , and .\n\nFederal Courts have held that because of the deposit of the \"res\" with the court an interpleader action is an action to determine the validity of competing claims to identified property that served may be under which authorize other forms of service to obtain \"in rem jurisdiction\" over absent defendants.\n\nThere are two specific types of interpleader actions in the United States federal courts. Statutory Interpleader governed by , and Rule Interpleader established by Federal Rules of Civil Procedure .\n\nSuch an action may be entertained although the titles or claims of the conflicting claimants do not have a common origin, or are not identical, but are adverse to and independent of one another. .\n\nThe may claim language added in 1948 codification to Title 28 of the United States Code in the definitions of claim allow interpleader for unliquidated claims, such as multiple claimant to a liability insurance policy injured in an accident before they are reduced to judgment or settled, however the injunction may only restrain the claimants from suits making claims against the \"res\" not suits to liquidate the claim or against third parties. The procedures for a Statutory Interpleader action are governed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Rule 22(b).\n\nInterpleader is also allowed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure . Rule 22 is known as rule interpleader. Rule interpleader provides a remedy for any person who is, or may be exposed to double or multiple liabilities. The stakeholder may invoke Rule 22 as a plaintiff, or by counter-claiming in an action already started against him by one, or more claimants. There are specific differences between Statutory Interpleader, and Rule Interpleader:\n\nIn bankruptcy court interpleader under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure may be maintained as an adversary proceeding under Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure .\n\n(a) Grounds for an Interpleader Action\n\n\"(1) By a Plaintiff. Persons with claims that may expose a plaintiff to double or multiple liability may be joined as defendants and required to interplead. Joinder for interpleader is proper even though:\n(A) the claims of the several claimants, or the titles on which their claims depend, lack a common origin or are adverse and independent rather than identical; or\n(B) the plaintiff denies liability in whole or in part to any or all of the claimants.\n(2) By a Defendant. A defendant exposed to similar liability may seek interpleader through a crossclaim or counterclaim.\n\n(b) Relation to Other Rules and Statutes.\n\nThis rule supplementsand does not limit the joinder of parties allowed by Rule . The remedy this rule provides is in addition toand does not supersede or limitthe remedy provided by , , and . An action under those statutes must be conducted under these rules.\"\n\nThe Uniform Commercial Code §7-603 adopted in all 50 of the states of the United States provides that a bailee when more than one person claims title to or possession of the goods under document of title (warehouse receipt or bill of lading) may bring an interpleader as an original action or as a defense to a suit for nondelivery.\n\nIn Louisiana interpleader is called concursus. In most states there are statutes or court rules that provide for interpleader similar to the federal rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23572875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23572875", "title": "Jan Dahm", "text": "Jan Dahm\n\nJan Dahm (5 April 1921 – 16 February 2013) was a Norwegian resistance member during World War II. He was among the first group of people to be subject to court-martial during the German occupation of Norway, and later initiated and headed the Secret Intelligence Service group Theta, which operated in Bergen from December 1941 to June 1942.\n\nAt the German attack on Norway in April 1940 Jahn Dahm was a nineteen-year-old engineering student at Bergens Tekniske Skole. He had been an eager radio amateur and a member of \"Bergen Radio Relé Liga\" for years, and at home he also had a workshop for building radios. On 25 June 1940, while he had an examination at the school, he was fetched and brought to the Gestapo office in Bergen, where he was confronted with equipment taken from his home, and told he would be charged for espionage. On 28 June he was transported by bus from Bergen to Oslo together with ten other arrestees, and taken to Møllergaten 19. The German court-martial started in Oslo on 22 August 1940. The court in Oslo consisted of 3rd Senate of Deutsches Reichskriegsgericht in Berlin, and the prosecutor had proposed death sentence to the six defendants, according to paragraphs 2 (espionage) and 89 (treason) of the German penal code. On 28 August three of the six defendants were sentenced to death, while Jan Dahm and another defendant were set free, as the charges could not be proved. This was the first court-martial in Norway after the German occupation, and the first death sentences in Norway since 1876. The convicted were travelling agent Konrad Rendedal, Colonel Gabriel Lund and doctor Odd Solem, while policeman Erling Staff was sentenced to five years in prison. The death sentences were later changed to five years imprisonment (). Jan Dahm could go back home, but had to report to Gestapo every second week.\n\nDahm continued his studies at Bergens Tekniske Skole, but placed under Gestapo supervision. He noticed that he was often observed by unknown persons, but eventually learned how to escape his shadows. He got contacts among undercover resistance members, such as physicist and radio expert Helmer Dahl, and district leader of the Bergen department of Milorg, Mons Haukeland. Along with some friends he also started to prepare a secret room in a building at Bryggen, which could be used as a working room and cover. As the group had expertise on radio transmission, the next step was to establish contact with allied forces. Group member Bjarne Thorsen travelled by boat to Lerwick, and managed to establish contact with the Secret Intelligence Service in London. Thorsen returned to Bergen bringing a radio transmitter, secret codes and schedules. The station was called Theta, and started its operation in December 1941. Among the notable messages transmitted by Theta, was a report on the battleship \"Tirpitz\". The Theta group operated until June 1942, when group member Kristian Ottosen was arrested. Following this arrest, Dahm fled to Sweden via Bodø, Fauske and Junkerdalen, together with Theta member Wenche Stenersen. Dahm was further fetched to Britain for briefing. He was later trained as radar officer, and eventually served at the naval base in Shetland.\n\nDahm graduated from Bergens Technical School in 1947, and ran an engineering company in Bergen from 1950. He died in February 2013.\n"}
{"id": "2330779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2330779", "title": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905", "text": "Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905\n\nThe Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905, also known as the Eulsa Treaty, Eulsa Unwilling Treaty or Japan–Korea Protectorate Treaty, was made between the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire in 1905. Negotiations were concluded on November 17, 1905. The treaty deprived Korea of its diplomatic sovereignty and made Korea a protectorate of Imperial Japan. It resulted from Imperial Japan's victory in the Russo-Japanese War in 1905.\n\nIn the metonymy Eulsa Treaty, the word \"Eulsa\" or \"Ulsa\" derives the Sexagenary Cycle's 42nd year of the Korean calendar, in which the treaty was signed. The treaty is identified by several names including \"Second Japan–Korea Convention\" (Japanese: 第二次日韓協約, Korean: 제2차 한일협약, 第二次韓日協約), \"Eulsa Restriction Treaty\" (Korean: 을사늑약, 乙巳勒約), \"Eulsa Protection Treaty\" (Japanese: 乙巳保護条約, Korean: 을사보호조약), and \"Korea Protection Treaty\" (Japanese: 韓国保護条約).\n\nFollowing Imperial Japan’s victory in the Russo-Japanese War, with its subsequent withdrawal of Russian influence, and the Taft–Katsura Agreement, in which the United States allegedly agreed not to interfere with Japan in matters concerning Korea, the Japanese government sought to formalize its sphere of influence over the Korean Peninsula.\n\nDelegates of both Empires met in Seoul to resolve differences in matters pertaining to Korea’s future foreign policy; however, with the Korean Imperial palace under occupation by Japanese troops, and the Imperial Japanese Army stationed at strategic locations throughout Korea, the Korean side was at a distinct disadvantage in the discussions.\n\nOn 9 November 1905, Itō Hirobumi arrived in Hanseong and gave a letter from the Emperor of Japan to Gojong, Emperor of Korea, asking him to sign the treaty. On 15 November 1905, he ordered Japanese troops to encircle the Korean imperial palace and threatened the emperor in order to force him to agree to the treaty.\n\nOn 17 November 1905, Ito and Japanese Field Marshal Hasegawa Yoshimichi entered the Jungmyeongjeon Hall, a Russian-designed building that was once part of Deoksu Palace, to persuade Gojong to agree, but he refused. Ito pressured the cabinet with the implied, and later stated, threat of bodily harm, to sign the treaty. According to 한계옥 (Han-Gyeok), Korean prime minister Han Gyu-seol disagreed, shouting loudly. Ito ordered the guards to lock him in a room and said if he continued screaming, they could kill him. The Korean cabinet signed an agreement that had been prepared by Ito in the Jungmyeongjeon. The Agreement gave Imperial Japan complete responsibility for Korea's foreign affairs, and placed all trade through Korean ports under Imperial Japanese supervision.\n\nThis treaty deprived Korea of its diplomatic sovereignty, in effect making Korea a protectorate of Imperial Japan. The provisions of the treaty took effect on November 17, 1905, and it laid the foundation for the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1907, and subsequent annexation of Korea in 1910.\n\nThe treaty was deemed to have gone into effect after it received the signature of five Korean ministers:\n\nEmperor Gojong of Korea did not assent or sign the treaty. Other officials who disputed the treaty included:\n\nEmperor Gojong sent personal letters to major heads of state to appeal for their support against the illegal signing. As of February 21, 1908, he had sent 17 letters bearing his imperial seal, to the following eight rulers:\n\nIn 1907, Emperor Gojong sent three secret emissaries to the second international Hague Peace Convention to protest the unfairness of the Eulsa Treaty. But the great powers of the world refused to allow Korea to take part in the conference.\n\nNot only the Emperor but other Koreans protested against the Treaty. Jo Byeong-se and Min Yeong-hwan, who were high officials and led resistance against Eulsa treaty, killed themselves as resistance. Local yangbans and commoners joined righteous armies. They were called \"Eulsa Euibyeong\" (을사의병, 乙巳義兵) meaning \"Righteous army against Eulsa Treaty\".\n\nAfter completing the treaty, Emperor Gojong tried to let the world know the unfairness of the treaty, including sending a special envoy to The Hague. This directly contributed to the forced retirement of King Gojong.\n\nThis treaty, later, was confirmed to be \"already null and void\" by the Treaty on Basic Relations between Japan and the Republic of Korea concluded in 1965.\n\nIn a joint statement on June 23, 2005, officials of South Korea and North Korea reiterated their stance that the Eulsa treaty is null and void on a claim of coercion by the Japanese.\n\nAs of 2010, South Korea was seizing property and other assets from the descendants of people who have been identified as pro-Japanese collaborators at the time of the treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11521670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11521670", "title": "Law on Social Responsibility on Radio and Television", "text": "Law on Social Responsibility on Radio and Television\n\nThe Law on Social Responsibility on Radio and Television (Ley de Responsabilidad Social en Radio y Televisión known as the Ley Resorte) is a Venezuelan law, adopted by the National Assembly and in force since 7 December 2004. Its purpose is to establish a legal framework for the social responsibility of radio and television broadcasters, national and independent producers of radio and TV programming, and viewers and listeners in the dissemination and reception of transmitted information.\n\nIts objectives, stated in Article 3, are: “[securing] respect for freedom of expression and information without censorship”; “[furthering] the actual exercise of and respect for human rights”; “[facilitating] the broadcasting of information and materials intended for minors”; “[furthering] the broadcasting of national productions and [encouraging] the development of the national audiovisual industry”; “[facilitating]the dissemination of the values of the Venezuelan culture”; and “[furthering]public participation.”\n\nArticle 4 of the law allows the use of indigenous languages in programs directed specifically to indigenous peoples, and makes it a requirement to provide subtitles or sign language translation in informative programs for people with auditory disabilities.\n\nArticle 14 supports national production of TV and radio content - including music - by requiring broadcasters to transmit at least 10 hours of Venezuelan-made content every day.\n\nThe government called it a \"building block for the modernization of the country's communications sector\", whereas the opposition believes it increases state control over the media. According to Human Rights Watch, the law \"severely threatens press freedom in Venezuela\", and \"[i]ts vaguely worded restrictions and heavy penalties are a recipe for self-censorship by the press and arbitrariness by government authorities.\" \n\nThe law's purpose is to instruct the Venezuelan television networks to air cultural content and to establish schedules for each category of the series and programs. The rating for each program is based on four content types: \"Language\", \"health\", \"sex\", and \"violence\"; when a program is about to be broadcast, these content issues can either be announced with their respective \"level measure\" or not, depending on the channel's way to show the advice. Also, depending on the schedule and the advised contents, the program may either be suitable, in need of parental guidance or non-suitable for young children and teenagers. It is also specified if the series is a national production (made by the channel), an independent national production (made by a separate company) or an international production (a foreign program).\n\nLikewise, every network is instructed to air the government's teasers, their political campaigns and to interrupt the usual schedule when national announcements by the President of the Republic, known as \"Cadenas\" (\"Chains\", referring to the fact that \"every\" radio and TV network must air simultaneously these announcements) are about to be broadcast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9482361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9482361", "title": "Legal pluralism", "text": "Legal pluralism\n\nLegal pluralism is the existence of multiple legal systems within one (human) population and/or geographic area. Plural legal systems are particularly prevalent in former colonies, where the law of a former colonial authority may exist alongside more traditional legal systems (customary law).\n\nWhen the systems developed, the idea was that certain issues (such as commercial transactions) would be covered by colonial law, and other issues (family and marriage) would be covered by traditional law. Over time, those distinctions tended to break down, and individuals would choose to bring their legal claims under the system that they thought would offer them the best advantage.\n\nLegal pluralism also occurs when different laws govern different groups within a country. For example, in India and Tanzania, there are special Islamic courts that address concerns in Muslim communities by following Islamic law principles. Secular courts deal with the issues of other communities.\n\nSince modern Western legal systems can also be pluralistic, it is misleading to discuss legal pluralism only in relation to non-Western legal systems. Legal pluralism may even be found in settings that might initially appear legally homogenous. For example, there are dual ideologies of law within courthouses in the US, as the formal ideology of law as it is written exists alongside the informal ideology of law as it is used. The discussion on the internal and external plurality of legal systems is called sociology of law.\n\nSources of Islamic law include the Koran, Sunnah and Ijma, but most modern Western nation states take the basis of their legal system from the Christian superpowers of old (Britain, France etc.). That is also why moral laws found in the Bible have actually been made full-fledged laws, with the initial grundnorm set far back in legal history, hence fulfilling the priority of both the positivists and the naturalists.\n\nLegal pluralism also exists to an extent in societies where the legal systems of the indigenous population have been given some recognition. In Australia, for example, the \"Mabo\" decision gave recognition to native title and thus elements of traditional Aboriginal law. Elements of traditional aboriginal criminal law have also been recognised, especially in sentencing. That has, in effect, set up two parallel sentencing systems. Another example is the Philippines whose customary ways of indigenous peoples in the Cordilleras are recognized by the Philippine government and in Kalinga, Bodong is the means used by the people to settle disputes: since it had been very effective for them, it is still widely practiced.\n\nThere is some concern that traditional legal systems and Muslim legal systems fail to promote women's rights. As a consequence, members of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) have called for a unification of legal systems within countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21490029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490029", "title": "List of short titles", "text": "List of short titles\n\nThis is a list of stock short titles that are used for legislation in one or more of the countries where short titles are used. It is also a list of articles that list or discuss legislation by short title or subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "21583241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21583241", "title": "Maldivian constitutional referendum, 1968", "text": "Maldivian constitutional referendum, 1968\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Maldives on 15 March 1968. The main question was whether to convert the state from a constitutional monarchy under Sultan Muhammad Fareed Didi, to a presidential system. The referendum was the third on the subject; the first in 1952 had seen the state convert to a presidential system, whilst a second in 1953 reversed the decision and saw the monarchy restored in 1954.\n\nThe proposals were approved by over 80% of voters, and a republic was declared on 11 November that year. Prime Minister Ibrahim Nasir would become president.\n"}
{"id": "245529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245529", "title": "Mandatory labelling", "text": "Mandatory labelling\n\nMandatory labelling or labeling (see spelling differences) is the requirement of consumer products to state their ingredients or components.\n\nMoral purchasing and problems like allergies are two things which are enabled by labelling. It is mandated in most developed nations, and increasingly in developing nations, especially for food products, \"e.g.\" \"Grade A\" meats. With regard to food and drugs, mandatory labelling has been a major battleground between consumer advocates and corporations since the late 19th century.\n\nBecause of past scandals involving deceptive labelling, countries like the United States and Canada require most processed foods to have a Nutrition facts label on the label, and the table's formatting and content must conform to strict guidelines. The European Union equivalent is the slightly different Nutrition information table, which may also be supplemented with standardized icons indicating the presence of allergens.\n\nIn China, all clothing is labelled with the factory of origin, including telephone and fax numbers, although this information is not available to buyers outside China, who see only a generic Made In China tag.\n\nThe development genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about the mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies. Advocates of such labelling claim that the consumer should make the choice whether to expose themselves to any possible health risk from consuming such foods. Detractors point to studies that conclude genetically modified food is safe, and point out that for many commodity products, the identity of the grower and the custody chain are not known.\n\nVoluntary labelling and co-marketing of products deemed desirable is another matter usually carried out by entirely different means, \"e.g.\" Slow Food. There has been increased regulatory interest in substantiating these claims, and in some jurisdictions, food labels require regulatory approval before use.\n\nAn interesting halfway is those labels that are considered mandatory by one buying population and effectively preclude purchase if they are not there, e.g. kosher, vegan, and the aforementioned GMO-free label now seen on many organic products.\n\nAreas in which mandatory labelling is being discussed include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4345407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4345407", "title": "Mattel Inc v 3894207 Canada Inc", "text": "Mattel Inc v 3894207 Canada Inc\n\nMattel Inc v 3894207 Canada Inc is a leading decision of the Supreme Court of Canada on the infringement of famous trade-mark names. The Court found that Mattel Inc. could not enforce the use of their trade-marked name \"BARBIE\" against a restaurant named \"Barbie's\".\n\nBarbie’s restaurant, a Montreal chain of \"bar-and-grill\" type restaurants catering primarily to adults, applied to register the trade-mark \"Barbie’s\" and an associated design with respect to \"restaurant services, take-out services, catering and banquet services.\" Mattel Inc. owns the \"Barbie\" trade-mark, and has a worldwide reputation for Barbie dolls and accessories targeted primarily at girls aged 3 to 11 years old. Mattel Inc. opposed the application to register \"Barbie’s\" restaurant on the basis that it would cause confusion in the marketplace. The applicant had the burden of satisfying the Trade-marks Opposition Board of the Canadian Intellectual Property Office that if \"Barbie’s\" restaurant and Mattel’s \"Barbie\" were used in the same geographic area there would be no confusion in the marketplace. The Trade-marks Opposition Board rejected Mattel’s opposition and allowed the registration, finding that the applicant’s trade-mark, \"Barbie’s\", was not likely to be confused with Mattel’s Barbie trade-mark. The Federal Court and Federal Court of Appeal both upheld the Trade-marks Opposition Board’s decision. Mattel Inc. appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nThe Board found that there was not a strong likelihood of consumer confusion. The Board based its decision on the fact that Mattel presented no evidence of actual confusion (although it was not required to), the mark had a low degree of inherent distinctiveness (as it is a short form of the name \"Barbara\"), and the nature of the uses by the two parties were very different.\n\nMattel appealed the Board's ruling to the Federal Court. The Federal Court decided that the trade-mark, \"Barbie\" by Mattel is not iconic enough to cause consumer confusion. Instead, it found that all factors must be considered, including that of the nature of the wares. The judge found the wares to be quite different, and as a result dismissed the appeal.\n\nMattel appealed to the Federal Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal found no error by the Federal Court, and dismissed the appeal. Specifically, it found that the Federal Court judge was correct to reject a survey that showed merely a \"possibility\" of confusion and not the \"likelihood\" of confusion.\n\nBinnie, J. wrote the opinion to which seven other justices joined. LeBel, J. wrote a concurring opinion.\n\nThe issue addressed was whether Mattel Inc., owner of the Barbie trade-mark, could prevent a small chain of Montreal-based restaurants from registering the name \"Barbie’s\" with the Trademark Office, based on the likelihood of confusion in the marketplace between the two names.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada upheld the decision of the Trade-marks Opposition Board, that the use of the \"Barbie\" name for the Montreal-based restaurant would not likely create confusion in the marketplace with Mattel Inc.’s Barbie trade-mark, and allowed its registration.\n\nBinnie held that the standard of review applicable to the Trade-marks Opposition Board’s decision was reasonableness, based on the test set out in \"\"Dr. Q v College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia\"\" [2003] 1 SCR 226.\n\nSection 6(2) of the \"Trade-marks Act\" states that trade-mark confusion occurs if using two trade-marks in the same area would be likely to lead to the inference that the goods or services associated with those trade-marks are manufactured, sold, leased, hired or performed by the same person, whether or not the wares or services are of the same general class.\n\nTo determine whether \"Barbie’s\" restaurant led to confusion in the marketplace with Mattel’s \"Barbie\" trade-mark, Binnie considered the five factors set out in Section 6(5) of the Trade-marks Act. Depending on the surrounding circumstances of each case, the different factors may be weighted differently. Binnie clarified that the appropriate perspective in which to weigh these five factors is that of an \"ordinary casual consumer somewhat in a hurry.\" Binnie held that the applicant had shown on a balance of probabilities that confusion was not likely to occur in the marketplace between \"Barbie’s\" restaurant and Mattel’s \"Barbie\" dolls.\n\nBinnie held that the word \"Barbie\", while an everyday expression commonly used as the short-form of the name \"Barbara\", had acquired a strong secondary meaning associated with Mattel's Barbie dolls, and was therefore considerably distinct. In contrast, the mark applied for by \"Barbie's\" restaurant was only somewhat known in the surrounding area of Montreal.\n\nSince Mattel's trade-mark has been widely publicized since the early 1960s, while \"Barbie's\" restaurant has only existed since 1992, Binnie determined that Mattel's trade-mark had deeper roots.\n\nBinnie found that the doll business attracts different clientele with different tastes than the restaurant business. Binnie determined that it was difficult to see the basis on which consumers would arrive at the mistaken inference that Barbie's restaurants were associated with Mattel's Barbie dolls and accessories.\n\nBinnie held that \"the parties operate in different and distinct channels of trade within which their respective wares and services do not intermingle.\"\n\nBinnie found that although both marks use the name \"Barbie\", \"Barbie's\" restaurant uses the name alongside a design. Binnie determined that when Mattel's packaging and advertising of Barbie is considered, there is considerable resemblance to the mark for \"Barbie's\" restaurant.\n\nBinnie stated that lack of any evidence of actual confusion is another circumstance that can be taken into account, while the intention, or \"mens rea\", of the creators of \"Barbie’s\" restaurant is irrelevant.\n\nThough Binnie recognized that some marks become so famous that their use with \"any\" wares or services may be infringement, he found that \"Barbie\" did not hold such a strong mark. However, in determining how broad the scope of the trade-mark protection should be, Binnie stressed the importance of courts considering the totality of the circumstances.\n\nResemblance between trade-marks is not required to prove trade-mark confusion in the marketplace. Confusion may arise even when trade-marks are related to products or services in different classes of the marketplace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3365727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3365727", "title": "Municipal law", "text": "Municipal law\n\nMunicipal law is the national, domestic, or internal law of a sovereign state defined in opposition to international law. Municipal law includes many levels of law: not only national law but also state, provincial, territorial, regional, or local law. While the state may regard them as distinct categories of law, international law is largely uninterested in the distinction and treats them all as one. Similarly, international law makes no distinction between the ordinary law of the state and its constitutional law.\n\nArticle 27 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties from 1969 provides that if a treaty conflicts with a state's municipal law (including the state's constitution), the state is still obliged to meet its obligations under the treaty. The only exception is provided by Article 46 of the Vienna Convention if a state's expression of consent to be bound by a treaty was a manifest violation of a \"rule of its internal law of fundamental importance\".\n\n"}
{"id": "294731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294731", "title": "Musketeer", "text": "Musketeer\n\nA musketeer () was a type of soldier equipped with a musket. Musketeers were an important part of early modern armies, particularly in Europe, as they normally comprised the majority of their infantry. The musketeer was a precursor to the rifleman. Muskets were replaced by rifles in most western armies during the mid-1850s. The traditional designation of \"musketeer\" for an infantry private survived in the Imperial German Army until World War I.\n\nThe hand cannon, the firearm from which all others descended, was invented in China in the 12th century and was in widespread use there in the 13th century. It spread west across Asia in the 14th century. Arquebusiers and musketeers were utilized in the armies of the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing dynasties (1644–1911). In Zhao Shizhen's book of 1598 AD, the \"Shenqipu\", there were illustrations of Ottoman Turkish riflemen with detailed illustrations of their muskets, alongside European musketeers with detailed illustrations of their muskets. There was also an illustration and description of how the Chinese had adopted the Ottoman kneeling position in firing while favoring European-made muskets. The Chinese also built the first repeating fire-arm, several barrels behind a small wooden shield: the musketeer would turn the barrels and light each barrel with a slow match one by one. These weapons were most effective being fired from walls or high positions. Needham considered this weapon to be a \"primitive machine-gun\".\n\nThe famous Janissary corps of the Ottoman army were using matchlock muskets as early as the 1440s. The Ottoman Empire, centering on Turkey and extending into Arabia, used muskets to conquer Constantinople (modern Istanbul) and were one of the earliest users of muskets in a military conflict. It also utilized large cannons, the Great Turkish Bombard and incendiary devices. They are also probably the first to use muskets aboard ships.\n\nMuskets became an integral part of Indian warfare in the 1600s. They were used as an effective defense against war elephants. The Mughals, Marathas, Rajputs and Sikhs made use of musketeers, firing from cover, to ambush opposing infantry, cavalry and elephants. Many Indian gunsmiths existed during the 17th and 18th centuries, creating regular muskets and some combination weapons.\n\nIn the Spanish army, the \"Tercio\" or the \"Spanish Square\" was a mixed infantry formation that theoretically could have up to 3,000 pikemen, swordsmen and musketeers, although, on the battlefield, it was usually much smaller. It was nigh on invincible in its era, capitalizing on the brute strength and close-range abilities of the pikemen and the long-range projectile capabilities of the muskets. In practice, it appeared as a loosely formed phalanx in function, but was far more flexible and deadly. The musketeer manned tercios were developed from the earlier arquebusier manned \"coronelías\", which had firmly established their fearsome reputation by defeating the French and capturing their king at the Battle of Pavia in 1525.\n\nStreltsy () were the units of Russian guardsmen (sl. \"strelets\", стрелец. literally \"shooter\"; often translated as \"musketeer\", but more properly \"harquebuses\") from the 16th to the early 18th centuries, armed with firearms and halberds. They are also collectively known as \"Strelets Troops\" (Стрелецкое Войско).\n\nThe first streltsy units were created by Ivan the Terrible sometime between 1545 and 1550 and armed with the arquebus. They first saw combat at the Siege of Kazan in 1552. Military service in this unit became lifelong and hereditary. The bearded strelsty were organized into regiments, each with a long coat (\"kaftans\") and pointed cloth hat of a distinctive colour. By 1680, there were 20 regiments of Moscow streltsy totaling 20,048 men and comprising about 12 per cent of the total army (along with cossacks, militia and an increasing number of regular soldiers). In addition, there were significant numbers of frontier and garrison streltsy serving outside Moscow, although these were less formally drilled and equipped. \n\nThe Muscovite government was chronically short of cash so that the streltsy were often not paid well. While \"entitled\" to something like four rubles a year in the 1550s, they were often allowed to farm or trade in order to supplement their incomes. Textiles for clothing and foodstuffs were sometimes issued as part of their pay. A commander of one hundred musketeers (\"sotnik\") received up to 20 roubles a year and a regimental head (\"streletski golova\") between 30 and 60.\n\nIn the late 17th century, the Streltsy of Moscow began to actively participate in a struggle for power between different government groups, supporting the dissidents and showing hostility towards any foreign innovations.\n\nAfter the fall of Sophia Alekseyevna in 1689, the government of Peter the Great engaged in a process of gradual limitation of the streltsy’s military and political influence. In order to counter their power, Peter began to raise a new regular army, still armed with muskets but disciplined, uniformed and organised along West European lines. In spite of these measures, the streltsy revolted yet again while Peter was on his Great Embassy in Europe. The four regiments involved were disbanded and 1,200 of the mutineers were executed. The remainder were exiled, had their property confiscated and were banned from future military employment. The entire corps was technically abolished in 1689; however, after having suffered a defeat at Narva in 1700, the government retained some streltsy units in service.\n\nGradually, the streltsy were incorporated into the regular army. At the same time, they started to disband the Municipal Streltsy. Liquidation of the streltsy units was finally finished only in the 1720s, however, the Municipal Strel'tsy were kept in some cities until the late 18th century.\n\nThe Preobrazhensky and Semenovsky regiments of the Imperial Guard replaced the streltsy as the political and military force closest to the tsar.\n\nThe Musketeers of the Guard were a junior unit, initially of roughly company strength, of the military branch of the Royal Household or \"Maison du Roi\". They were created in 1622 when Louis XIII furnished a company of light cavalry (the \"carabiniers\", created by Louis' father Henry IV) with muskets. Musketeers fought in battle both on foot as infantry and on horseback as dragoons. At the Battle of Fontenoy in 1745 the King's Musketeers served as regular cavalry, charging British infantry with drawn swords.\n\nAs one of the junior units in the Royal Guard, the Musketeers were not closely linked to the royal family. Traditional bodyguard duties were in fact performed by the Garde du Corps and the Cent-suisses. Because of its later establishment, the Musketeers were open to the lower classes of French nobility or younger sons from noble families whose oldest sons served in the more prestigious Garde du Corps and Chevau-legers (Light Horse). The Musketeers soon gained a reputation for boisterousness and fighting spirit because the only way for social and career advancement was excelling at their task as mounted light dragoons.\n\nTheir high esprit de corps gained royal favor for the Musketeers and they were frequently seen at court and in Paris. Shortly after their creation, Cardinal Richelieu created a bodyguard unit for himself. So as not to offend the King with a perceived sense of self-importance, Richelieu did not name them Garde du Corps like the King's personal guards but rather Musketeers after the Kings' junior guard cavalry. This was the start of a bitter rivalry between the two corps of Musketeers. At the cardinal's death in 1642, the company passed to his successor Cardinal Mazarin. At Mazarin's death in 1661, the cardinal's Musketeers passed to Louis XIV to the disgust of both the King's Musketeers and the Cardinal's Musketeers. The Musketeers were subsequently reorganized as a guard cavalry regiment of two companies. The King's Musketeers became the first company, popularly known as \"Grey Musketeers\" (\"mousquetaires gris\"), while the Cardinal's Musketeers became the second company, known as \"Black Musketeers\" (\"mousquetaires noirs\") for riding grey and black horses, respectively. From their establishment, the Musketeers wore blue cloak-like cassocks, lined with red and edged with silver embroidery. From 1688, the cassocks were replaced by smaller \"soubrevestes\" or sleeveless coats in the same colours. In the early decades of the corps, the musketeers had worn civilian dress under their cassocks, according to personal taste and means, but in 1677 a scarlet uniform was adopted.\n\nIn terms of recruitment, the Musketeers were among the most sought after of the military companies of the \"Ancien Régime\". This was due to the lower entrance requirements. The senior guard units were in effect closed to all but the most senior and wealthy of French nobles, so for the majority of French nobles (many of whom lived in genteel poverty), service in the Musketeers was the only way to join a mounted unit in the Royal Household and perhaps catch the King's eye. However, enlistment did require both letters of recommendation and evidence that a recruit had the family means to support the costs of service. These included the provision of horses, swords, clothing, a servant and equipment. Only the muskets and the distinctive blue cassock were provided by the monarch.\n\nIn 1776, the Musketeers were disbanded by Louis XVI, for budgetary reasons. Following the first Bourbon Restoration, the Musketeers were reestablished on 6 July 1814 along with the other military units of the former Royal Household. These expensive and aristocratic regiments proved ineffective when Napoleon returned from Elba, mostly dispersing though some accompanied Louis XVIII into brief exile. Following the second restoration of the Monarchy, the Musketeers were finally disbanded on 1 January 1816.\n\nDecades later, starting in 1844, this group was the subject of the now-famous serial publication \"The Three Musketeers\", in the magazine \"Le Siècle\" between March and July 1844. The author, Alexandre Dumas, père, based his work on the book \"Mémoires de Monsieur d'Artagnan, capitaine lieutenant de la première compagnie des Mousquetaires du Roi\" (Memoirs of Mister d'Artagnan, lieutenant captain of the first company of the King's Musketeers) by Gatien de Courtilz de Sandras (Cologne, 1700).\n\nThanks to the reforms of Gustav II Adolf, the Swedish Army brought to maturity the new style of fighting that made Sweden into a great power in the 17th century. This style of fighting became the new standard throughout Europe and its colonies in the latter stages of musket dominated warfare. Manuals based on Gustav's own revolutionised the training and tactics of western armies.\n\nThe iconic \"Redcoat\" of the British Empire was the staple unit in the British armies that created the largest empire in history. The British infantryman was equipped with the .75 calibre Land Pattern Musket, or Brown Bess. He was well trained by the standards of the time, training with live ammunition. A fully trained redcoat could fire four times a minute. This, combined with the technique of firing by companies (a method wherein blocks of men fired smaller volleys in succession, creating a wave of fire down the front of the regiment), made it possible for the British musketeer to win pitched battles against superior numbers.\n\nThe musket was withdrawn from service with the British Army in 1854, replaced by the muzzle-loading Minié rifle, which had an accurate range of over three times that of the Brown Bess which it replaced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19113936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19113936", "title": "National Library of Latvia", "text": "National Library of Latvia\n\nThe National Library of Latvia () also known as Castle of Light (\"Gaismas pils\") is a national cultural institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture of Latvia. The National Library of Latvia was formed in 1919 after the independent Republic of Latvia was proclaimed in 1918. The first supervisor of the Library was Jānis Misiņš, a librarian and the founder of the Latvian scientific bibliography (1862–1945).\n\nToday the Library plays an important role in the development of Latvia's information society, providing Internet access to residents and supporting research and lifelong education.\n\nThe National Library was founded on 29 August 1919, one year after independence, as the State Library (\"Valsts Bibliotēka\"). Its first chief librarian and bibliographer was Jānis Misiņš (1862-1944) who made his immense private collection the basis of the new library. Within a year, until 1920, the stocks had grown to 250,000 volumes. Starting in the same year, all publishers were obliged to hand in a deposit copy of their works. Since 1927, the Library has published the \"National Bibliography of Latvia\".\n\nThere were significant additions in 1939 and 1940, when the State Library took over many of the libraries and collections of the Baltic Germans, most of whom resettled to the Reich. Among these was a large part of the collection of the \"Society for History and Archaeology of Russia's Baltic Provinces\", est. 1834, the primary historical society of the Baltic Germans. In 1940, holdings encompassed 1.7 million volumes, so that they had to be stored in two different locations in the Old Town (Jēkaba iela 6/8 and Anglikāņu iela 5).\n\nDuring the German occupation of Riga (1941-1944), the State Library was renamed Country Library (\"Zemes bibliotēka\"), eliminating reference to a sovereign Latvian state). Under Soviet rule, it was known as State Library of the Latvian SSR (\"Latvijas PSR Valsts bibliotēka\"). According to Soviet customs, in 1966 it received an honorary name, commemorating Vilis Lācis, a writer and the late prime minister of Soviet Latvia. From 1946, literature deemed 'dangerous' from the Soviet perspective was withdrawn from the shelves and could be accessed only with a special permit until 1988. In 1956, the State Library moved into its new building at Krišjāņa Barona iela.\n\nSince the reestablishment of national independence 1991, the institution has been called National Library of Latvia. In 1995, it received as a permanent loan the \"Baltic Central Library\" of Otto Bong (1918-2006), a collection pertaining to the history, regional studies and languages of the Baltic countries. In 2006, the National Library joined the European Library online service.\n\nThe Library's holdings today encompass more than 5 million titles, incl. about 18,000 manuscripts from the 14th century up to modern times. One of the characteristic cornerstones of the NLL, which characterizes every national library, is the formation of the collection of national literature, its eternal storage and long-term access.\n\nThe NLL is a centre of theoretical research and practical analyses of the activities of Latvian libraries. The Library carries out the functions of the centre of Latvia Interlibrary Loan, ensures the library and information service to the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia – the Saeima, implements the standardisation of the branch. Since the very outset, its main concern has been the national bibliography. The massive union catalogue \"Seniespiedumi latviešu valodā\" (Ancient Prints in Latvian 1525-1855, published in Riga, 1999) received the Spīdola Prize in 2000 and was awarded \"The Beautiful Book of the Year 99\". In 2005, the \"Letonikas grāmatu autoru rādītājs (1523-1919)\" (Index of the Authors of Lettonica Books (1523–1919)) was published, providing information about versatile branches of science and representatives of various nations, Latvia being the main focus of their publications.\n\nThe NLL includes several collections of posters (artists Oskars Šteinbergs (1882–1937), Sigismunds Vidbergs (1890–1970), Raoul Dufy (1877–1953), Bernhard Borchert (1863–1945), Niklāvs Strunke (1894–1966) and others).\n\nDigitising collections at the NLL started in 1999. At present the Latvian National Digital Library Letonica, which was formed in 2006, holds digitized collections of newspapers, pictures, maps, books, sheet-music and audio recordings. In 2008 NLL launched two major digital projects. Periodika.lv is the NLL's collection of digitized historical periodicals in Latvian with the possibility to read full texts and search page by page.\nLatvia has a tradition of Song and Dance Festivals organized every four years. The historical materials from the first Song Festival in 1864 till the Latgale Song Festival in 1940 can be explored in another digital collection of the National Library of Latvia.\n\nThe first discussions about the need for a new National Library had already started in 1928, and the significance of the project of this century was further confirmed by the high-level international recognition. In 1999 almost all 170 UNESCO member states during its General Conference adopted a resolution, calling the member states and the international community to ensure all possible support for the implementation of the NLL project. The continuous growth of the Library had made it necessary to transfer parts of the stocks into other buildings. Thus, in 2013, NLL was distributed between five locations in Riga. Furthermore, some stocks were being stored since 1998 in a depot in Silakrogs outside the capital.\n\nThese inconveniences finally convinced the Parliament to approve a new building on the left bank of the Daugava. On 15 May 2008, after discussions lasting for many years, the state agency \"Three New Brothers\" and the \"Union of National Construction Companies\" signed the contract on the construction of the new \"National Library of Latvia\". On 18 May 2014, the main facility of the Library at Krišjāņa Barona iela was closed for the move. In 2008, construction started according to the design of the Latvian-American architect Gunnar Birkerts who has been tasked with the project already in 1989. The new building has 13 floors and is 68 m high. Construction costs were given as 193 million euros. 480 people work there.\n\nAs part of Riga's programme for its title as European Capital of Culture, selected holdings were symbolically carried from the old to the new building by a human chain on 18 January 2014. The new building was finally opened on 29 August that year, the Library's 95th anniversary.\n\nToday the NLL building is a dominant landmark on the Riga cityscape. It is used for a variety of purposes, regularly used for conferences and conventions. Among others, it hosted the 4th summit of the EU's Eastern Partnership programme in May 2015, and a debate chaired by the BBC's Jonathan Dimbleby on 14 March 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18992769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18992769", "title": "Nuclear weapons convention", "text": "Nuclear weapons convention\n\nA nuclear weapons convention is a proposed multilateral treaty to eliminate nuclear weapons. This might include prohibitions on the possession, development, testing, production, stockpiling, transfer, use and threat of use of nuclear weapons, such as those in the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, along with provisions for their verified elimination. It could be similar to existing conventions outlawing other categories of weapons, such as biological weapons, chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs.\n\nThe Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty states that \"Each of the Parties to the Treaty undertakes to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament, and on a treaty on general and complete disarmament.\" In 1996, the International Court of Justice concluded that this means \"There exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control.\"\n\nEach year since 1996, the UN General Assembly has passed a resolution calling on all countries immediately to fulfill their disarmament obligation, as articulated by the International Court of Justice, \"by commencing multilateral negotiations leading to an early conclusion of a nuclear weapons convention.\" In 2007, 127 countries voted in favour of the resolution, including four countries with nuclear weapons: China, India, Pakistan and North Korea.\n\nIn 1997, a consortium of experts in law, science, disarmament and negotiation drafted a model nuclear weapons convention, which Costa Rica submitted to the UN Secretary-General as a discussion draft. The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons launched an updated version of the model convention in 2007 at a meeting of parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and Costa Rica submitted this as a Conference Document.\n\nOn 24 October 2008 the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon discussed a nuclear weapons convention in an address to the East-West Institute entitled \"The United Nations and security in a nuclear-weapon-free world.\" In his five-point program he proposed two alternatives for nuclear disarmament negotiations, either \"a framework of separate, mutually reinforcing instruments,\" or \"a nuclear-weapons convention, backed by a strong system of verification,\" citing the Costa Rican proposal as a good point of departure on the second option.\n\nThe model convention text requires countries with nuclear weapons to destroy them in stages, including taking them off high alert status, removing them from deployment, removing the warheads from their delivery vehicles, disabling the warheads by removing the explosive \"pits\", and placing the fissile material under UN control. As well as outlawing nuclear weapons, this convention would prohibit the production of fissile materials suitable for making them, namely highly enriched uranium and separated plutonium.\n\nIt would establish an agency to ensure that countries comply with the terms of the treaty. This body would receive progress reports from nuclear-armed states, conduct inspections of weapons facilities, acquire intelligence through satellite photography and remote sensors, and monitor the production and transfer of materials suitable for making nuclear weapons.\n\nA 2008 poll put global public support for a NWC at 76%, with 16% against.\n\nIn 2011, the Council of Delegates of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement appealed to all states \"to pursue in good faith and conclude with urgency and determination negotiations to prohibit the use of and completely eliminate nuclear weapons through a legally binding international agreement, based on existing commitments and international obligations\".\n\nFrance, Russia, the UK and the US oppose a NWC.\n\n"}
{"id": "42664003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42664003", "title": "Octane Fitness, LLC v. ICON Health &amp; Fitness, Inc.", "text": "Octane Fitness, LLC v. ICON Health &amp; Fitness, Inc.\n\nOctane Fitness, LLC v. ICON Health & Fitness, Inc., 572 U.S. ___ (2014), is one of two U.S. Supreme Court decisions issued on April 29, 2014 regarding patent lawsuit fee-shifting (the other case being \"Highmark v. Allcare Health\"). The Supreme Court essentially made it easier for courts to make the loser pay for all attorney costs, if the lawsuit is regarded as frivolous. In other words, \"the Supreme Court's decision grants judges more leeway to crack down on baseless claims.\" The decision is particularly relevant for the so-called patent trolls, which \"will have to add a new variable to their calculations before pursuing a marginal lawsuit over their intellectual property: The other side’s legal fees.\" The decision was unanimous, with the opinion written by Justice Sonia Sotomayor.\n\nIn the underlying litigation ICON Health & Fitness, the world's largest maker of exercise equipment, sued Octane Fitness, a relatively small and specialized maker of elliptical trainers, for patent infringement. Octane Fitness, arguing that their elliptical products did not infringe ICON's patent, won on summary judgment and later moved for reimbursement for their attorney's fees. The district court denied the motion for attorney's fees, stating that even though Octane Fitness eventually prevailed, ICON's claims were not objectively baseless, but the Supreme Court reversed this decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "1318207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318207", "title": "Open skies", "text": "Open skies\n\nOpen skies is an international policy concept that calls for the liberalization of the rules and regulations of the international aviation industry—especially commercial aviation—in order to create a free-market environment for the airline industry. Its primary objectives are:\n\nFor open skies to become effective, a bilateral (and sometimes multilateral) air transport agreement must be concluded between two or more nations.\n\nSince World War II, most states have invested national pride in the creation and defence of airlines (sometimes called \"flag carriers\" or \"legacy\" airlines). Air transportation differs from many other forms of commerce, not only because it has a major international component, but also because many of these airlines were wholly or partly government-owned. Thus, as international competition grew, various degrees of protectionism were imposed.\n\nA bilateral air transport agreement is a contract to liberalize aviation services, usually commercial civil aviation, between two contracting states. A bilateral air services agreement allows the airlines of both states to launch commercial flights that covers the transport of passengers and cargoes of both countries. A bilateral agreement may sometimes include the transport of military personnel of the contracting states.\n\nIn a bilateral agreement, the contracting states may allow the airlines of the contracting parties to bring passengers and cargoes to a third country or pick up passengers and cargoes from the host country to the home country of the airline or to a third country in which the contracting states has existing open skies agreement.\n\nA multilateral air services agreement is the same as bilateral agreement, the only difference being that it involves more than two contracting states.\n\nThe Convention on International Civil Aviation (1944), signed at Chicago (also called the Chicago Convention), was intended to prepare a framework within which civil air transport could develop (not military or other state activities whether in a piloted or drone craft). It introduced nine \"freedoms of the air\" for those states that have adopted the Convention and enter into bilateral treaties that may grant any of the following rights or privileges for scheduled international air services:\nBecause only the first five \"freedoms\" have been officially recognised by international treaties, the ICAO considers the remaining \"freedoms\" \"so-called\".\n\nThe last twenty-five years have seen significant changes in airline regulation. The United States began pursuing open skies agreements in 1979, and, by 1982 it had signed twenty-three bilateral air service agreements worldwide, mainly with smaller nations. That was followed in the 1990s by agreements with individual European states.\n\nA huge step was taken in 1992 when the Netherlands signed the first open skies agreement with the United States, in spite of objections posited by European Union authorities. The agreement gave both countries unrestricted landing rights on each other's soil. Normally landing rights are granted for a fixed number of flights per week to a fixed destination. Each adjustment takes a lot of negotiating, often between governments rather than between the companies involved. The United States subsequently granted antitrust immunity to the alliance between Northwest Airlines and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines which started in 1989 (when Northwest and KLM agreed to code sharing on a large scale) and which actually is the first large alliance still functioning. Other alliances would struggle for years to overcome transnational barriers or still do so.\n\nIn 2001 the United States signed the Multilateral Agreement on the Liberalization of International Air Transportation (MALIAT) with Brunei, Chile, New Zealand, and Singapore. The United States has enjoyed a powerful negotiating position but the European Commission, as a supranational body, negotiated with the United States government on a community Air Service Agreement. These negotiations led to the text of an agreement being initialed on 2 March 2007. Contending issues are:\n\nThe EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement was one of the most significant open skies agreements concluded in recent years, applying to civil aviation traffic between two of the world's three largest markets. \n\nThe ASEAN Multilateral Agreement on Air Services and the ASEAN Multilateral Agreement on the Full Liberalisation of Air Freight Services which were simultaneously approved on May 20, 2009 in Manila, Philippines are multilateral air transport agreements among the ten-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations. These two agreements which took effect January 1, 2010, call for a calibrated and gradual implementation in each contracting state, to allow countries with less developed airline industry to cope up with more developed ones. It is part of the broader ASEAN Air Transport Integration and Liberalization Plan.\n\nThe ASEAN Open Sky Agreement is the Southeast Asia's major aviation policy. It is geared towards the development of a unified and single aviation market among ASEAN members in Southeast Asia projected to begin 1 January 2016, though all agreements have not been signed.\n\nThe Asian market, considered one of the fastest growing, remains relatively regulated at present, although the phased introduction of the ASEAN open skies agreement covering ten countries in Southeast Asia from 2008 has prompted major Asian markets (including Japan, China and India) to consider similar initiatives.\n\nWhile American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines complained that Emirates airline, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways violates open-skies agreements, Alaska Airlines, Atlas Air, FedEx Express, Hawaiian Airlines and JetBlue Airways have stood in opposition (it’s unknown who Southwest Airlines stands with but are very likely to side against the gulf carriers), insisting the agreements have broader benefits, promoting trade, travel and economic expansion, with Atlas Air even supporting Norwegian Air International application to enhance consumer choice.\n\nMost of the existing civil agreements include:\n\nThe Treaty on Open Skies, signed in Helsinki in 1992 is a multinational sacrifice of air sovereignty to enhance military transparency and build confidence by permitting observation flights over almost the full territory of each signatory state:\nTo illustrate the scope of the Treaty, Germany and Italy have to accept 12 overflights per year, while Russia (including Belarus) and the United States must permit 42 overflights each.\n\nThere is also a bilateral Open Skies Agreement between Hungary and Romania. In a tacit but persistent way, the United States has been promoting the idea of bilateral or trilateral open skies arrangements between states in South America. Similarly, there are many bilateral treaties and Memoranda of Understanding that permit military aircraft mutually to train in or transit through their airspace. For example, Singapore has such arrangements with the United States, France, and Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49142544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49142544", "title": "Panama Truth Commission", "text": "Panama Truth Commission\n\nThe Panama Truth Commission was appointed by Panamanian president Mireya Moscoso in 2000 to investigate crimes committed under the military rule of Omar Torrijos and Manuel Noriega.\n\nIn December 2000, human remains were discovered at a Panamanian National Guard base, incorrectly believed to be those of Jesús Héctor Gallego Herrera, a priest murdered during the Torrijos dictatorship. Moscoso appointed a truth commission to investigate the site and those at other bases. The commission faced opposition from the Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD), which had been the party of both Torrijos and Noriega. The PRD-controlled National Assembly slashed the commission's funding, and PRD president Balbina Herrera threatened to seek legal action against the president for its creation. The commission ultimately reported on 110 of the 148 cases it examined, of which 40 had disappeared and 70 were known to be murdered. The report concluded that the Noriega government had engaged in \"torture [and] cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment\", and recommended further exhumation and investigation.\n\nIn 1981, General Omar Torrijos was killed in a plane crash and his defense force leader General Manuel Noriega took power. During this period the United States still controlled the Canal Zone and had immense influence in various areas of the country (including economic influence). Six years into Noriega’s rule, the United States decided to cut its economic assistance to Panama.\n\nIn 1989, Noriega influenced the election a great deal since most Panamanians wanted to rid the country of military rule. This led to riots and instability, which caused the United States to send in troops. The US responded quickly to these riots and were able to use military force to crush the riots and rebellions. This was due to US-Panamanian treaties involving the Canal Zone. The result of US military involvement led to the arrest of Noriega. He was sentenced for forty-years on charges for drug trafficking. Finally in 2001, President Mireya Moscoso – widow to former President Arnulfo Arias Madrid – established the truth commission after the discovery of bones at several military bases.\n\nThe reasoning behind the Panamanian Truth commission was to hold the dictator General Manuel Antonio Noriega accountable for his abuses of human rights as well as his involvement in drug trafficking and money laundering. Some Panamanians believe that the United States should be held responsible for Noriega’s regime and that they should be liable for the outcomes of the Panama Truth Commission. The US involvement with Noriega began in the early 1970s when he became involved with US Intelligence activities. One event in 1971 had President Richard Nixon requesting that Noriega travel to Havana, Cuba on behalf of the US to obtain two American ships that had been seized by Fidel Castro's government. During this time Noriega was already involved in drug deals and drug trafficking and President Nixon received a recommendation from a high ranking drug-officer to have Noriega assassinated rather than working with him. The assassination never occurred and Noriega through his blossoming career became the second most powerful man by 1975 through leading the G-2 (Panama's military intelligence command).\n\nFrom the late 1970s to the early 1980s, Noriega served US interests quite effectively. His service was seen in the form of asylum in Panama for the Shah of Iran in 1979 and also aiding in destabilizing the Sandinista government in Nicaragua in 1983. The involvement with the US benefited Noriega equally when in 1981 President Omar Torrijos was involved in an unexplained plane crash. It is alleged that Noriega used his connection with the US to engineer President Torrijos' death through the support of the C.I.A. (Central Intelligence Agency). After the death of President Torrijos his seat of power was fought for by both politicians and military officers. This struggle for the presidency was eventually won by Noriega. After taking power Noriega was promoted to General and Commander of the National Guard. He decided in 1983 to amalgamate both the Navy and the Air Force which would establish the Panama Defence Forces – this included the national police.\n\nThe following year Noriega held a national election to appoint a president. His nomination was Nicolas Arditos Barletta, who ran against Arnulfo Arias. Barletta narrowly won, promising to help improve the country's economy. When Barletta failed to do so, Noriega forced him out of power. At the time of this election Noriega was suspected of money laundering, gun trafficking, torture, murder and selling US intelligence to Cuba and Easter European governments. When approached by the US, Noriega denied all allegations and blaming US politicians of trying to undermine the Panama Canal treaties before its return to Panamanian control in December 1999. Noriega's support began to decline in 1987 when his former chief of staff stated that Noriega had fixed the 1984 elections and had Hugo Spadafora – a critic of Noriega's drug trafficking- ordered to be killed. When this became public knowledge, Panamanians began to protest the removal of Noriega. His response to these protests was to declare a national emergency, which suspended all constitutional rights, close newspapers and radio stations and exile his political enemies. Even though Noriega had connections with the United States, they always remained distant from Noriega's government. This all took a sudden turn in 1988 when the US decided to become more directly involved in Panama.\n\nBy mid-1987, the United States government decided that Noriega was becoming too powerful and damaging for the Panamanian society. Under President Ronald Reagan's administration, the US terminated all economic and military assistance and encouraged Panamanian bankers to cut support funding as well. The only support left for Noriega was the Panama Defence Force. The US also suggested that Noriega resign and depart Panama before the US elections of 1988. In addition to these suggestions, the US Justice Department began filling charges against Noriega as a warning. The US even sent Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams to Panama to discuss plans with President Eric Del Valle to fire Noriega. Noriega's response was to depose Del Valle.\n\nIn 1989, now under President George Bush (who was the director of the C.I.A. when Noriega became involved with the US), began to increase pressure on Noriega. This pressure was visible when a Panamanian election was called and Noriega decided not to run but instead endorsed candidate Carlos Duque. The opposition chose Guillermo Endara and he was endorsed with $10 million by the Bush administration. During this election, Noriega found that Duque was losing and commanded the Panama Defence Force to confiscate ballot boxes. Noriega declared this election void and appointed another president. The US began to worry greatly given that control of the Panama Canal was going to be handed over in ten years time. They did not want to see one of Noriega's men as administrator of the Canal, not only for the country but also for the Panamanian image internationally.\n\nAfter the contested election, President Bush sent in US forces to overthrow Noriega on the grounds that hostile acts were performed against US military personnel. Noriega declared a state of war and the US launched an attack called \"Operation Just Cause\" with 24,000 troops. The fighting lasted several days and Noriega hid at the Papal Nunciature office during this time. Finally, after pressure from Vatican officials Noriega surrendered in January 1990.\n\nThe Truth Commission in Panama was called the \"Comisión de la Verdad de Panamá\" (Panama Truth Commission). It was established on January 18, 2001 by President Mireya Moscoso with a mandate to investigate human rights violations between 1968 and 1989, the years of rule by Torrijos and Noriega. The commission was barred from making any conclusions on legal responsibilities of individual perpetrators.\n\nThe commission was made up of seven commissioners (five men and two women). It was led by Alberto Santiago Almanza Henríquez, a lawyer and Catholic activist. All commissioners were appointed by President Moscoso. The commission last for a year and three months and came to an end in April 2002 when the Final Report (Informe Final de la Comisión de la Verdad de Panamá) was presented. A follow up office operated until December 2004.\n\nAccording to the commission's findings, the military regime was involved in torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of victims. There had been 148 cases of human rights abuse. Out of those, 110 were reported and documented. The cases took place during the first years of the military regime (1968–1972) against supporters of the former President Arias. It was discovered that seventy of the victims had been murdered, forty had disappeared and that another forty cases were yet to be investigated.\n\nA major aspect of the commission's work was investigating clandestine grave sites, establishing the identity of victims and determining the circumstances of their deaths. Through this investigation, the commission discovered twenty-four grave sites and excavated thirty-six graves. These sites were located at military establishments throughout the provinces of Panama and Bosca del Toro and at the prison on Coiba Island. Other sites included the Tocumen military airport, the houses occupied by Panamanian Air Force pilots, the old Los Pumas infantry barracks and firing range in Tocumen, the old cavalry base in Panama Viejo, the Joyita prison in Pacova and at houses used by secret police and other security units used for interrogation and torture.\n\nThe discovery of the body of Colombian priest Jose Hector Gallego, who had been abducted by the military in 1971, is what initiated the Truth Commission. Other well-known people that were found to be victims of torture included Dora Moreno, Hipólito Quintero, Floyd Britton, Encarnación González and Hugo Spadofora. The final conclusion that was made by the commission was that \"the military regime had engaged in 'torture [and] cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment' of its victims.\"\n\nThe recommendations made by the commission to the President were as follows:\n\nA follow-up committee for the commission's work was created. It was decided by executive decree on October 20, 2003 that the truth commission was to be extended until December 2004. This follow-up commission was called the Office for Follow-up of the Institutional Truth Commission or \"Comisión Institucional de la Verdad-Oficina de Seguimiento.\" This office would report to the President and the Minister of Justice. Towards the end of the commission's existence, the office experienced a break-in upon its completion of the report. It is believed that the thief was trying to destroy any and all records, to make them unavailable to public access. This commission also experienced obstacles like budgetary restraints which affected its efforts to pay reparations, and the commission was unable to answer questions concerning the victims of the 1989 United States invasion. The Panamanian government has demanded that Washington declassify information that would be relevant to the US invasion, Operation Just Cause. These types of files have proven to be invaluable when understanding dictatorships in other countries like El Salvador, Chile and Guatemala and the role that the US played in backing them.\n\nThe persecutions that have been made are directed at General Noriega and come from various countries. He was first charged in 1992 was for drug trafficking by the United States and sentenced to forty years imprisonment. This sentence was eventually reduced to twenty years. Following this sentence in 1995, Panamanian courts found Noriega to be guilty of murder during his dictatorship. This sentence encouraged Panama to demand Noriega be extradited from the US to complete his persecution time on his national soil; this demand was declined by the US. In April 2010, the US decided to extradite Noriega to France where he was charged for money laundering, convicted in 1999, and sentenced to serve thirty years. The President at the time, Martin Torrijos – General Torrijos' son – called for Noriega's extradition to Panama.\n\nAs a way to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary President Juan Carlos Varela announced the creation of a commission to investigate the deaths and disappearances during Operation Just Cause. This commission's goal is to \"heal the wounds, and promote national reconciliation.\" The Panamanian government is demanding Washington recognize the invasion, provide compensation to the country and proclaim the grave sites where hundreds of Panamanians were buried. President Varela also announced that December 20 would be a day of national mourning for the victims.\n"}
{"id": "2250667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2250667", "title": "Paulette (tax)", "text": "Paulette (tax)\n\nLa Paulette (; after the financier Charles Paulet, who proposed it) was the name commonly given to the \"annual right\" (\"droit annuel\"), a special tax levied by the French Crown under the \"Ancien Régime\". It was first instituted on December 12, 1604 by King Henry IV's minister Maximilien de Béthune, duc de Sully. \n\nThe \"paulette\" was a tax on the holders of various government and judicial offices, paid to the Crown, and initially set at an annual payment of one-sixtieth of the value of each office. Paying the \"paulette\" secured the right of the officeholder to transfer his office at will.\n\nThe transmission of judicial offices had been a common practice in France since the late Middle Ages. By the beginning of the sixteenth century the practice had extended to almost all levels of the ever-increasing Renaissance state administration (such as seats in the \"Parlements\"), and played an important role in state finances. Custom had permitted an officer to transfer his office to his heir (\"résignation\") with royal permission in return for the payment of a fee. Before it was made illegal in 1521, it had been possible to leave open-ended the date that the transfer was to take effect. In 1534, the \"forty days rule\" was instituted (adapted from church practice), which made the successor's right void if the preceding office holder died within forty days of the transfer (in which case the office reverted to the state); however, a new fee, called the \"survivance jouissante\", protected against the forty days rule. Still, the new office holder had to meet the minimum qualifications needed for the office or else the office went back to the crown. The \"paulette\" was a modification of this rule, which substituted an annual tax as protection against the \"forty days rule\".\n\nThe \"paulette\" provided the Crown with a steady source of revenue while consolidating the practice of hereditary government offices. This left the administration of justice in France in the hands of a new and increasingly powerful hereditary class of magistrates, which came to be known as the \"noblesse de robe\" (\"nobility of the gown\"), in contrast with the traditional aristocracy, known as the \"noblesse d'épée\" (\"nobility of the sword\", whose position derived from feudal military service). This system was abolished after the French Revolution.\n\nWhile the \"paulette\" provided revenue for the Crown, the salaries of government officials stressed the royal funds and forced the Crown to tax the lower classes heavily. During the rule of Louis XIV, his minister of finance Jean Baptiste Colbert expanded the creation and sale of offices to raise money without new taxation.\n"}
{"id": "314610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314610", "title": "Pebble", "text": "Pebble\n\nA pebble is a clast of rock with a particle size of 2 to 64 millimetres based on the Krumbein phi scale of sedimentology. Pebbles are generally considered larger than granules (2 to 4 millimetres diameter) and smaller than cobbles (64 to 256 millimetres diameter). A rock made predominantly of pebbles is termed a conglomerate. Pebble tools are among the earliest known man-made artifacts, dating from the Palaeolithic period of human history.\n\nA beach composed chiefly of surface pebbles is commonly termed a shingle beach. This type of beach has armoring characteristics with respect to wave erosion, as well as ecological niches that provide habitat for animals and plants.\n\nInshore banks of shingle (large quantities of pebbles) exist in some locations, such as the entrance to the River Ore, where the moving banks of shingle give notable navigational challenges.\n\nPebbles come in various colors and textures and can have streaks, known as veins, of quartz or other minerals. Pebbles are mostly smooth but, dependent on how frequently they come in contact with the sea, they can have marks of contact with other rocks or other pebbles. Pebbles left above the high water mark may have growths of organisms such as lichen on them, signifying the lack of contact with seawater.\n\nPebbles are found in two locations – on the beaches of various oceans and seas, and inland where ancient seas used to cover the land. When then the seas retreated, the rocks became landlocked. They can also be found in lakes and ponds. Pebbles can also form in rivers, and travel into estuaries where the smoothing continues in the sea.\n\nBeach pebbles and river pebbles (also known as river rock) are distinct in their geological formation and appearance.\n\nBeach pebbles form gradually over time as the ocean water washes over loose rock particles. The result is a smooth, rounded appearance. The typical size range is from 2 mm to 50 mm. The colors range from translucent white to black, and include shades of yellow, brown, red and green. Some of the more plentiful pebble beaches are found along the coast of the Pacific Ocean, beginning in the United States and extending down to the tip of South America in Argentina. Other pebble beaches are found in northern Europe (particularly on the beaches of the Norwegian Sea), along the coast of the U.K. and Ireland, on the shores of Australia, and around the islands of Indonesia and Japan.\n\nInland pebbles (river pebbles of river rock) are usually found along the shores of large rivers and lakes. These pebbles form as the flowing water washes over rock particles on the bottom and along the shores of the river. The smoothness and color of river pebbles depends on several factors, such as the composition of the soil of the river banks, the chemical characteristics of the water, and the speed of the current. Because river current is gentler than the ocean waves, river pebbles are usually not as smooth as beach pebbles. The most common colors of river rock are black, grey, green, brown and white.\n\nBeach pebbles and river pebbles are used for a variety of purposes, both outdoors and indoors. They can be sorted by colour and size, and they can also be polished to improve the texture and colour. Outdoors, beach pebbles are often used for landscaping, construction and as decorative elements. Beach pebbles are often used to cover walkways and driveways, around pools, in and around plant containers, on patios and decks. Beach and river pebbles are also used to create water-smart gardens in areas where water is scarce. Small pebbles are also used to create living spaces and gardens on the rooftops of buildings. Indoors, pebbles can be used as bookends and paperweights. Large pebbles are also used to create \"pet rocks\" for children.\n\nOn Mars, slabs of pebbly conglomerate rock have been found and have been interpreted by scientists as having formed in an ancient streambed. The gravels, which were discovered by NASA's Mars rover Curiosity, range from the size of sand particles to the size of golf balls. Analysis has shown that the pebbles were deposited by a stream that flowed at walking pace and was ankle- to hip-deep.\n\n"}
{"id": "2839271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839271", "title": "Purpose trust", "text": "Purpose trust\n\nA purpose trust is a type of trust which has no beneficiaries, but instead exists for advancing some non-charitable purpose of some kind. In most jurisdictions, such trusts are not enforceable outside of certain limited and anomalous exceptions, but some countries have enacted legislation specifically to promote the use of non-charitable purpose trusts. Trusts for charitable purposes are also technically purpose trusts, but they are usually referred to simply as charitable trusts. People referring to purpose trusts are usually taken to be referring to non-charitable purpose trusts.\n\nTrusts which fail the test of charitable status usually fail as non-charitable purpose trusts, although there are certain historical exceptions to this, and some countries have modified the law in this regard by statute. The court will not usually validate non-charitable purpose trusts which fail by treating them as a power. In \"IRC v Broadway Cottages Trust\" [1955] Ch 20 the English Court of Appeal held: \"I am not at liberty to validate this trust by treating it as a power. A valid power is not to be spelled out of an invalid trust.\"\n\nThe basis for the general prohibition against non-charitable purpose trusts is usually phrased on one or more of several specific grounds.\n\nIt is the opinion of Charlene Parker, a trust is, at its root, an obligation. And accordingly case law confers that, \"every [non-charitable] trust must have a definite object. There must be someone, maybe Jordan Baksh, of which the court can decree performance.\" With a charitable trust, this power of enforcement is usually vested in the Attorney General. However, such conceptual objections seem less strong since the decision of the House of Lords in \"McPhail v Doulton\" [1971] AC 424 where Lord Wilberforce rode roughshod over objections to widening the class of valid discretionary trusts on the basis that there would be difficulty ascertaining beneficiaries for the court to enforce the trust in favour of.\n\nWhere the objects of a trust are a purpose rather than an individual or individuals, there is much greater risk that a trust would not be enforceable due to lack of certainty. Cases such as \"Morice v Bishop of Durham\" (1804) 9 Ves Jr 399 and \"Re Astor\" [1952] Ch 534 re-affirm the court's disinclination to enforce trusts that are not specific and detailed. It is noteworthy that the common law exceptions to the general prohibition on purposes trusts tend to relate to specific and detailed matters, such as maintenance of a specific tomb, or caring for a particular animal.\n\nPurpose trusts have been attacked conceptually on the basis that it would amount to the delegation of a testamentary power, although subsequent cases have cast doubt on the correctness of that reasoning.\n\nCharitable purpose trusts are exempt from the rule against perpetuities. Private trusts are not. Accordingly, all non-charitable purposes trusts, to be valid, need to comply with the perpetuity rules in the relevant jurisdiction.\n\nThere are, nonetheless, several well recognised exceptions at common law where non-charitable purposes trusts will be upheld.\n\nProvisions for the building or maintenance of tombs or monuments have been upheld as a matter of common law, although solely on the basis of ancient precedent. In \"Re Hooper\" [1932] 1 Ch 38 a trust for the maintenance of graves was upheld, but the court indicated that it would not have done so had it not been bound by \"Barr v Byrne\" [1896] WN 86. Such trusts still need to comply with the requirement of certainty. Hence a bequest to a Parish council for \"the purpose of providing some useful memorial to myself\" was struck down.\n\nTrusts for the care of specific animals have been upheld. In \"Re Dean\" (1889) 41 Ch D 552, North J upheld a trust for maintenance of horses and hounds for 50 years relying upon much older authorities and the monument cases.\n\nHistorically, \"Quistclose\" trusts have sometimes been considered to be purpose trusts, but the modern view is that they are resulting trusts to the settlor subject to a power to dispose of the assets in a predetermined fashion. Shell (2014) was able to comply with the bequest of a Parish council \"aiming to redeem the quistclose trust\".\n\nIn most academic textbooks, there are usually a swath of \"other\" purpose trusts or purported purpose trusts that are held up as a residual anomalous category. The most commonly cited example is \"Re Thompson\" [1934] 342 where a gift to a friend of the testator for the promotion and furthering of fox hunting was upheld. It has been suggested academically that the case has \"been elevated to a position of importance which it does not merit\".\n\nIn \"Re Endacott\" [1960] Ch 232 it was made clear that the existing exceptions at common law would not be extended; they were described as \"troublesome, anomalous and aberrant\".\n\nPaul BW Chaplin has argued in the book \"Purpose Trusts\" (Butterworths 1999) that the courts took a wrong turn in the mid 20th century and ignored hundreds of previous years of judicial precedents in which purpose trusts of all kinds had been upheld as valid. He contends that the \"beneficiary principle\" has been misunderstood. His views have received support from Professor Jill Martin and others.\n\nA number of offshore jurisdictions have enacted statutes which expressly validate non-charitable purpose trusts outside of the small group of specific exceptions recognised at common law. Some of the jurisdictions which have done so include the Bahamas, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands.\n\nCharacteristically, in those jurisdictions a non-charitable purpose trust requires a written trust instrument and the trust instrument must specify a protector or enforcer who will have \"locus standi\" to enforce the terms of the trust against the trustees. This role is created to address the concerns expressed by the courts as to how the courts would have power to control the trustees.\n\nHowever, no real steps have been taken in any of those jurisdictions to address the fundamental conceptual issues of where the beneficial title to the trust assets should be regarded as residing whilst they form part of the trust fund. Arguably, if no other person is regarded as having a beneficial claim to the assets, they would be regarded as being owned solely by the trustees, which could have disastrous tax implications for the trustees.\n\nIn the United States, in 2015, the Nevada Legislature adopted legislation that now permits a \"public benefits trust\", which is defined as a trust that is not a charitable trust but that is \"established to further one or more specifically declared religious, scientific, literary, educational, community development, personal improvement or philanthropic purposes. . . .\" \n\nSpecial problems arise in connection with the holding of property by unincorporated associations of persons. Whereas a company has separate legal personality and can hold property, with certain statutory exceptions, unincorporated associations of persons cannot. Accordingly, where an unincorporated association is formed for a non-charitable purpose (which is most often the case), a gift to an unincorporated association can fail as an invalid purpose trust. However, the courts have usually tried to avoid such a result by construing the gift as a gift to the \"members\" of the unincorporated association. The difficulty is that such a gift would then have to be construed as a distributive gift to the individual members, rather than a purposive gift for the objects of the unincorporated association. In \"Re Recher's Will Trust\" [1972] Ch 526 a more purposive approach was taken, and Brightman J held that a gift to The London and Provincial Anti-Vivisection Society was to be construed as a beneficial gift in favour of the members, not so as to entitle them to an immediate distributive share, but as an accretion to the funds of the society subject to the contract of the members as set out in the rules. Further, it was held that such a construction would be possible whether the society was inward looking (i.e. existed to promote the interests of its members) or outward looking (i.e. existed to promote some external cause or purpose).\n\n"}
{"id": "142450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142450", "title": "Senate of the Roman Republic", "text": "Senate of the Roman Republic\n\nThe Senate of the Roman Republic was a political institution in the ancient Roman Republic. It was not an elected body, but one whose members were appointed by the consuls, and later by the censors. After a Roman magistrate served his term in office, it usually was followed with automatic appointment to the Senate. According to the Greek historian Polybius, our principal source on the Constitution of the Roman Republic, the Roman Senate was the predominant branch of government. Polybius noted that it was the \"consuls\" (the highest-ranking of the regular magistrates) who led the armies and the civil government in Rome, and it was the \"Roman assemblies\" which had the ultimate authority over elections, legislation, and criminal trials. However, since the Senate controlled money, administration, and the details of foreign policy, it had the most control over day-to-day life. The power and authority of the Senate derived from precedent, the high caliber and prestige of the senators, and the Senate's unbroken lineage, which dated back to the founding of the Republic in 509 BC. It developed from the Senate of the Roman Kingdom, and became the Senate of the Roman Empire.\n\nOriginally the chief-magistrates, the \"consuls\", appointed all new senators. They also had the power to remove individuals from the Senate. Around the year 318 BC, the \"Ovinian Plebiscite\" (\"plebiscitum Ovinium\") gave this power to another Roman magistrate, the \"censor\", who retained this power until the end of the Roman Republic. This law also required the censors to appoint any newly elected magistrate to the Senate. Thus, after this point in time, election to magisterial office resulted in automatic Senate membership. The appointment was for life, although the censor could impeach any senator.\n\nThe Senate directed the magistrates, especially the consuls, in their prosecution of military conflicts. The Senate also had an enormous degree of power over the civil government in Rome. This was especially the case with regards to its management of state finances, as only it could authorize the disbursal of public monies from the treasury. In addition, the Senate passed decrees called \"senatus consultum\", which was officially \"advice\" from the Senate to a magistrate. While technically these decrees did not have to be obeyed, in practice, they usually were. During an emergency, the Senate (and only the Senate) could authorize the appointment of a \"dictator\". The last ordinary dictator, however, was appointed in 202 BC. After 202 BC, the Senate responded to emergencies by passing the \"senatus consultum ultimum\" (\"Ultimate Decree of the Senate\"), which suspended civil government and declared something analogous to martial law.\n\nThe rules and procedures of the Roman Senate were both complex and ancient. Many of these rules and procedures originated in the early years of the Republic, and were upheld over the centuries under the principle of \"mos maiorum\" (\"customs of the ancestors\"). While Senate meetings could take place either inside or outside of the formal boundary of the city (the \"pomerium\"), no meeting could take place more than a mile outside of the \"pomerium\". Senate meetings might take place outside of the formal boundary of the city for several reasons. For example, the Senate might wish to meet with an individual, such as a foreign ambassador, whom they did not wish to allow inside the city.\n\nAt the beginning of the year, the first Senate meeting always took place at the Temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. Other venues could include the Temple of Fides or the Temple of Concord, or, if the meeting was outside of the formal boundary of the city, at the Temple of Apollo or (if a war meeting) at the Temple of Bellona. In addition, the Senate operated while under various religious restrictions. For example, before any meeting could begin, a sacrifice to the gods was made, and a search for divine omens (the \"auspices\") was taken. The auspices were taken in order to determine whether that particular Senate meeting held favor with the gods. The Senate was only allowed to meet in a building of religious significance, such as the Curia Hostilia.\n\nThe ethical requirements of senators were significant. Senators could not engage in banking or any form of public contract. They could not own a ship that was large enough to participate in foreign commerce, and they could not leave Italy without permission from the Senate. In addition, since they were not paid, individuals usually sought to become a senator only if they were independently wealthy.\n\nThe \"censors\" were the magistrates who enforced the ethical standards of the Senate. Whenever a censor punished a senator, they had to allege some specific failing. Possible reasons for punishing a member included corruption, abuse of capital punishment, or the disregard of a colleague's veto, constitutional precedent, or the auspices. Senators who failed to obey various laws could also be punished. While punishment could include impeachment (expulsion) from the Senate, often a punishment was less severe than outright expulsion. While the standard was high for expelling a member from the Senate, it was easier to deny a citizen the right to join the Senate. Various moral failings could result in one not being allowed to join the Senate, including bankruptcy, prostitution, or a prior history of having been a gladiator. One law (the \"Lex repetundarum\" of 123 BC) made it illegal for a citizen to become a senator if they had been convicted of a criminal offense. Many of these laws were enacted in the last century of the Republic, as public corruption began reaching unprecedented levels.\n\nMeetings usually began at dawn, although occasionally certain events (such as festivals) might delay the beginning of a meeting. A magistrate who wished to summon the Senate had to issue a compulsory order (a \"cogere\"), and senators could be punished if they failed to appear without reasonable cause. In 44 BC for example, consul Mark Antony threatened to demolish the house of the former consul Cicero for this very reason. The Senate meetings were technically public because the doors were usually left open, which allowed people to look in, but only senators could speak. The Senate was directed by a presiding magistrate, who was usually either a \"consul\" (the highest-ranking magistrate) or, if the consul was unavailable, a \"Praetor\" (the second-highest ranking magistrate), usually the urban praetor. By the late Republic, another type of magistrate, a \"plebeian tribune\", would sometimes preside.\n\nWhile in session, the Senate had the power to act on its own, and even against the will of the presiding magistrate if it wished. The presiding magistrate began each meeting with a speech (the \"verba fecit\"), which was usually brief, but was sometimes a lengthy oration. The presiding magistrate would then begin a discussion by referring an issue to the senators, who would discuss the issue, one at a time, by order of seniority, with the first to speak, the most senior senator, known as the \"princeps senatus\" (leader of the Senate), who was then followed by ex-consuls (\"consulares\"), and then the praetors and ex-praetors (\"praetorii\"). This continued, until the most junior senators had spoken. Senators who had held magisterial office always spoke before those who had not, and if a \"patrician\" was of equal seniority as a \"plebeian\", the patrician would always speak first.\n\nA senator could make a brief statement, discuss the matter in detail, or talk about an unrelated topic. All senators had to speak before a vote could be held, and since all meetings had to end by nightfall, a senator could talk a proposal to death (a filibuster or \"diem consumere\") if they could keep the debate going until nightfall. It is known, for example, that the senator Cato the Younger once filibustered in an attempt to prevent the Senate from granting Julius Caesar a law that would have given land to the veterans of Pompey.\n\nSenators had several ways in which they could influence (or frustrate) a presiding magistrate. When a presiding magistrate was proposing a motion, for example, the senators could call \"consult\" (\"consule\"), which required the magistrate to ask for the opinions of the senators. Any senator could demand a quorum call (with the cry of \"numera\"), which required a count of the senators present. Like modern quorum calls, this was usually a delaying tactic. Senators could also demand that a motion be divided into smaller motions. Acts such as applause, booing, or heckling often played a major role in a debate, and, in part because all senators had an absolute right to free speech, any senator could respond at any point if he was attacked personally. Once debates were underway, they were usually difficult for the presiding magistrate to control. The presiding magistrate typically only regained some control once the debating had ended, and a vote was about to be taken.\n\nIn the later years of the Republic, attempts were made by the aristocracy to limit the increasing level of chaos associated with the obstructive tendencies and democratic impulses of some of the senators. Laws were enacted to prevent the inclusion of extraneous material in bills before the Senate. Other laws were enacted to outlaw the so-called omnibus bills, which are bills, usually enacted by a single vote, that contain a large volume of often unrelated material.\n\nLaws were also enacted to strengthen the requirement that three days pass between the proposal of a bill, and the vote on that bill. During his term as dictator, Julius Caesar enacted laws that required the publication of Senate resolutions. This publication, called the \"acta diurna\", or \"daily proceedings\", was meant to increase transparency and minimize the potential for abuse. This publication was posted in the Roman Forum, and then sent by messengers throughout the provinces.\n\nWhen it was time to call a vote, the presiding magistrate could bring up whatever proposals (in whatever order) he wished, and every vote was between a proposal and its negative. Quorums were required for votes to be held, and it is known that in 67 BC the size of a quorum was set at 200 senators (by the \"lex Cornelia de privilegiis\"). At any point before a motion passed, the proposed motion could be vetoed. Usually, vetoes were handed down by plebeian tribunes. If the Senate proposed a bill that the \"plebeian tribune\" (the magistrate who was the chief representative of the people) did not agree with, he issued a veto, which was backed by the promise to literally \"'interpose the sacrosanctity of his person'\" (or \"intercessio\") if the Senate did not comply. If the Senate did not comply, he could physically prevent the Senate from acting, and any resistance could be criminally prosecuted as constituting a violation of his sacrosanctity. If the vetoed motion was proposed the next day, and the plebeian tribune who had vetoed it the day before was not present to interpose himself, the motion could be passed. In general, the plebeian tribune had to physically be present at the Senate meeting, otherwise his physical threat of interposing his person had no meaning. Ultimately, the plebeian tribune's veto was based in a promise of physical force.\n\nOnce a vote occurred, and a measure passed, he could do nothing, since his promise to physically interpose his person against the senators was now meaningless. In addition, during a couple of instances between the end of the Second Punic War in 201 BC and the beginning of the Social War in 91 BC, although they had no legal power to do so, several Consuls were known to have vetoed acts of the Senate. Ultimately, if there was no veto, and the matter was of minor importance, it could be voted on by a voice vote or by a show of hands. If there was no veto, and the matter was of a significant nature, there was usually a physical division of the house, where senators voted by taking a place on either side of the chamber.\n\nAny motion that had the support of the Senate but was vetoed was recorded in the annals as a \"senatus auctoritas\", while any motion that was passed and not vetoed was recorded as a \"senatus consultum\". After the vote, each \"senatus consultum\" and each \"senatus auctoritas\" was transcribed into a final document by the presiding magistrate. This document included the name of the presiding magistrate, the place of the assembly, the dates involved, the number of senators who were present at time the motion was passed, the names of witnesses to the drafting of the motion, and the substance of the act. In addition, if the motion was a \"senatus consultum\", a capital letter \"C\" was stamped on the document, to verify that the motion had been approved by the Senate.\n\nThe document was then deposited in the temple that housed the Treasury (the \"aerarium\"). While a \"senatus auctoritas\" (vetoed Senate motion) had no legal value, it did serve to show the opinion of the Senate. If a \"senatus consultum\" conflicted with a law (\"lex\") that was passed by a \"Roman Assembly\", the law overrode the \"senatus consultum\", because the \"senatus consultum\" had its authority based in precedent, and not in law. A \"senatus consultum\", however, could serve to interpret a law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10382853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10382853", "title": "Seneca College v Bhadauria", "text": "Seneca College v Bhadauria\n\nSeneca College v Bhadauria, [1981] 2 S.C.R. 181 is a leading decision of the Supreme Court of Canada on civil rights and tort law. The Court ruled that there can be no common law tort of discrimination.\n\nBhadauria, an East Indian woman, was qualified to teach in Ontario and had seven years experience. She had applied ten times to Seneca College but was never granted an interview. Bhadauria claimed that she was not interviewed because of her ethnicity.\n\nShe argued that the college had violated the common law tort of discrimination. The Ontario Court of Appeal accepted the existence of such a tort. Since Bhadauria could show that such a right existed and that it had been violated by the practices of the college she would be entitled to remedy.\n\nThe Court allowed the appeal. It held that there was no tort of discrimination in Canadian common law. The court reasoned that a tort of discrimination was unnecessary since Bhadauria already had access to the human rights regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "32873274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32873274", "title": "Social protection floor", "text": "Social protection floor\n\nThe Social Protection Floor (SPF), is the first level of social protection in a national social protection system. It is a basic set of social rights derived from human right treaties, including access to essential services (such as health, education, housing, water and sanitation, and others, as defined nationally) and social transfers, in cash or in kind, to guarantee income security, food security, adequate nutrition and access to essential services.\n\nAs a result of the extreme inequality, social security schemes have been developed and implemented, through private and public initiatives, since the 1970s in Europe and subsequently in other parts of the world. However, the problem of poverty persists. According to the World Bank, over a billion people, or roughly one in six, live in extreme poverty and 2.8 billion people live in poverty, meaning on less than 1USD and less than 2USD a day, respectively.\n\nTo remedy this situation and promote socio-economic development, the United Nations Chief Executives Board for Coordination (UNCEB) coined the concept of the SPF. This framework aims to place governments as the central responsible actor for the promotion of four essential and universal guarantees, which would set the ground for a more comprehensive social protection system.\n\nThe Social Protection Floor is a socio-economic development policy concept and a crisis management tool. It promotes a solid foundation for economic growth, provides a societal insurance against perpetuating poverty and mitigates the effects of economic shocks and crisis.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Labour Organization Conventions are international instruments that have recognized these essential social rights and have been used as the legal basis to support the Social Protection Floor.\n\nFounded on a rights-based approach, the Social Protection Floor encourages countries to aim towards a universal standard of social protection coverage. Since the context of each country differs in terms of institutional capacity, political ideologies, financial resources, economic structure and cultural values, each floor is defined by individual countries.\n\nBuilding from past social protection programs, the SPF promotes a more coordinated design and implementation of social and labour policies in order to guarantee a country-defined basic set of social rights, services and facilities that every person should enjoy, which could be granted through:\n\nTo insure continuity and sustainability, these strategies build on existing social protection mechanisms and include a mix of contributory and non-contributory, targeted and universal, public and private instruments – depending on the social, economic and political context. Countries are also encouraged to develop higher levels of social protection in line with their needs, preferences, and financial capacities.\n\nA global coalition of United Nations agencies, international NGOs, development banks, bilateral organization and other development partners, the Social Protection Floor - Initiative Coalition (SPF-I Coalition), has been created to support countries with the establishment, expansion and edification of their national social protection floors.\n\nThe ultimate objective of the Social Protection Floor approach is to build a solid basis that would allow higher levels of protection, than simply the ground floor level. As economies grow and fiscal space is created, social protection systems can and should move up the Social Protection Floor \"staircase\", extending the scope, level and quality of benefits and services provided.\n\nWithin this strategy, the International Labour Organization (ILO) has suggested a two-dimensional approach to develop the SPF including : \n\nThis concept takes into consideration the national constraints of countries, while promoting a basic universal level of social protection to all. The gradual introduction and implementation of the social protection guarantees is essential for the development and sustainability of the system. In this way, countries do not lose sight of the overall objective of achieving comprehensive social protection for all; and they are able to assess and be constantly aware of the opportunity cost in terms of other guarantees that are put on hold when taking a decision on priorities. Formulating a package of guarantees as a floor should thus lead to rational cost/benefit-based policy decisions.\n\nEnsuring a Social Protection Floor for the entire world population represents a considerable challenge, but experiences from countries all over the world and calculations by various UN agencies, including UNICEF, show that a basic floor of social transfers is globally affordable at virtually any stage of economic development.\n\nIn 2008, the International Labour Organization published a cost-estimation study of 12 low-income countries in Africa and Asia that showed that the initial gross annual cost of a hypothetical basic social security package – that excluded access to essential health case because it is already to some extent financed – was projected to lie between 2.2 and 5.7 per cent of GDP in 2010.\n\nThere are many ways to attain affordable SFP coverage in middle- or low-income countries. While some countries seek to extend social insurance and combine it with social assistance, others subsidize social insurance coverage for the poor to enable them to enjoy participation in the general schemes, and still others seek to establish tax-financed universal schemes or conditional social transfer schemes. Each approach has its advantages and its limitations, depending on national values, past experience and institutional frameworks.\n\nThe core challenge for financing the basic social security guarantees remains that of securing the necessary fiscal space. For this reason, tax reforms may be necessary to increase fiscal resources, but also to enhance transparency, effectiveness and efficiency in tax collection.\n\nIn addition, measures may be required to maximize the administrative capacity to deliver benefits efficiently and inform the population about programmes. Evidence shows that good governance of social policies and programme is essential for efficient service delivery, monitoring, evaluation and financial management.\n\nThe Social Protection Floor Initiative (SPF-I) is a joint UN effort to build a global coalition of United Nations agencies, international NGOs, development banks, bilateral organisations and other development partners that are committed to collaborating at national, regional and global levels to support countries committed to building national social protection floors for their population.\n\nThe SPF-I was launched in April 2009 as one of the nine UN Chief Executives Board’s crisis initiatives – responding to repeated demands from member states for better coordinated technical, logistical and financial assistance from UN system agencies in times of crisis. The activities of the initiative are open for participation to all organisations that want to support the cause of strengthening social protection for all in need. Organizations that are involved include: ILO, World Health Organization, FAO, International Monetary Fund, OHCHR, UN Regional Commissions, UNAIDS, UN-DESA, UNDP, UNESCO, FAO, UNFPA, UN-HABITAT, UNHCR, UNICEF, UNODC, UNRWA, World Food Program, WMO, World Bank, ADB, BMZ, DFID, Helpage International, Save the Children, ICSW, GIZ, ESN, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Finland, French International Health and Social Protection Agency, GIPS, and others.\n\nPulling away from traditional top-down implementation, SPFs are country-led and developed based on the existing framework of county-specific social protection systems, institutional and administrative structures, economic constraints, fiscal space, political dynamics and social policy needs, objectives and priorities. The Coalition members of the SPF-I play a consultative role and among other activities: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199454", "title": "Stay of proceedings", "text": "Stay of proceedings\n\nA stay of proceedings is a ruling by the court in civil and criminal procedure, halting further legal process in a trial or other legal proceeding. The court can subsequently lift the stay and resume proceedings based on events taking place after the stay is ordered. However, a stay is sometimes used as a device to postpone proceedings indefinitely.\n\nIn civil procedure, stayed of proceedings are governed by the Civil Procedure Rules. In criminal trials, they are governed by the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985.\n\nA court may issue a stay in a winding up upon the creation of an application for rescission, an order being made against a false or mistaken institution, the petition debt being paid in full, the pertaining institution ceasing to exist, or the prior existence of a winding-up order.\n\nIn bankruptcy, a case can be stayed if a certification for annulment exists or an Individual Voluntary Arrangement is being negotiated.\n\nIn \"R v. Crawley and others\" [2014] EWCA Crim 1028 a stay was given. As part of the Conservative government's fiscal austerity policy, the Ministry of Justice decided to cut the fees paid to barristers for Very High Cost Cases (VHCC) by 30% in November 2013. Due to the amount of papers involved this case was classed as a VHCC by the Legal Aid Authority (LAA) who pay the defendant's costs (as free representation (legal aid) is required under the ECHR). Barristers in protest of the cuts refused the instructions to act on behalf of the defendants at the reduced fees, so no suitably qualified barristers could be found to represent the defendants. As the defendants would not be able to have a fair trial without suitable representation (in breach of their right to a fair trial under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights) the case could not proceed and was stayed. An adjournment was found to be unlikely to resolve the case and excessive delay would contradict a further requirement of the ECHR (Article 6(1)) requiring timely handling of prosecution.\n\nAccording to the legal code, a stay of proceedings can be issued in a case \"brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration\" when the ruling on the case is pending, can be stayed \"until such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement, providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such arbitration\".\n\nFor example, in the 2010s, as federal and state judges struck down same-sex marriage bans across the country, many judges stayed the rulings during the appeals process. Although a state's ban was struck down, such as that of Louisiana, the stay prevented implementation of their ruling pending a higher court decision and so prevented same-sex couples from obtaining a marriage license.\n\n"}
{"id": "10420402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10420402", "title": "Swiss made", "text": "Swiss made\n\nSwiss made is a label or marker used to indicate that a product was made or assembled in Switzerland or the geographic Swiss region. According to the Federal Act on the Protection of Trade Marks and Indications of Source, a good or service may be designated \"Swiss made\" if:\n\n\nMost often associated with watches or timepieces made in Switzerland, a watch is considered Swiss if its movement is Swiss, if the movement has been assembled in the Swiss region, its final inspection occurred in Switzerland, and at least 60% of manufacturing costs are domestic. Besides the Swiss made requirements, watches may carry the Swiss movement (\"Swiss Movt\") marker if at least half of the assembled parts are of Swiss manufacture. In addition to \"Swiss made\" and \"Swiss Movt\", under Swiss law watches may carry the words \"\"Suisse\", \"produit suisse\", \"fabriqué en Suisse\", \"qualité suisse\"\" or simply the English translation, \"Swiss\".\n\nThe wording was formally adopted in the late 19th century and is unique in that most other countries use the phrase \"Made in (Country Name)\". The most obvious place where the label is found is on Swiss watches. The Swiss laws permit the use of the words \"Suisse\", \"produit suisse\", \"fabriqué en Suisse\", \"qualité suisse\" or the translations, \"Swiss\", \"Swiss made\", or \"Swiss Movement\". On some older watches, for example, the word \"Swiss\" appears alone on the dial at the six o'clock position.\n\nThere are two discrete sections of the Swiss law that pertain to the use of the name Swiss made. The first law, which applies to all types of Swiss products, is the \"Federal Act on the Protection of Trade Marks and Indications of Source\". Its article 50 provided the authority for the enactment of the second law, Ordonnance du 23 décembre 1971, relating specifically Swiss watches. The text of either law is available in French, German or Italian, since those are the principal official languages of Switzerland.\n\nCurrently the aforementioned Swiss legal standards permit watch brands or watchmakers to label watches Swiss made under certain legally defined circumstances. These standards have changed over time and were not always codified in the national law, so older watches which bear the mark Swiss made may not necessarily meet the current legal definition. On the other hand, they might well exceed the current legal definition of Swiss made. Indeed, the current law of the applicability of Swiss made was codified on December 23, 1971.\n\nThe \"Ordinance regulating the use of the name \"Swiss\" on watches\" first defines a \"watch\" (as opposed to a clock) by the dimensions of its movement. Thereafter, the law defines a Swiss watch, the definition of which is dependent on certain aspects of its movement. The law then goes on to define under what circumstances a watch movement may be considered Swiss made. The law then sets forth the conditions for the use of the name Swiss on watches, on watch cases, on watch movements, on watch dials and on replacement watch parts. \nIn sum, a watch is considered Swiss whose movement is encased in Switzerland and whose final control by the Manufacture d'horlogerie takes place in Switzerland.\nThe legal standards for the use of \"Swiss made\" on a watch are a very minimum standard, and the Swissness of a watch is largely dependent on the brand and its reputation. The Swiss watch industry has not reached an agreement over the specific definition of Swiss made, as some companies favor stricter regulations and others prefer including lower-cost foreign components. The Swiss Federal Council modified the ordinance regulating the use of the \"Swiss\" name for watches in 1995. This revision was explained in a press release entitled \"On foreign parts for watches\".\n\nA watch is considered Swiss, according to the Swiss law if:\n\nA watch movement is considered Swiss if:\n\n\nIf a watch movement is intended for export and will not be cased-up in Switzerland, but it otherwise meets the criteria to be considered a Swiss movement, the watch may say \"Swiss Movement\" but it may not say Swiss made on the watch case or dial.\nA watch that says \"Swiss Quartz\" is considered to be a proper Swiss watch. However, it is often improperly used by foreign manufacturers to merely indicate that the quartz movement is of Swiss origin.\n\nUse of the Swiss made label for watches is covered by an ordinance of the Federal Council dated 29 December 1971. The Swiss standard is often pejoratively referred to as the 60% Rule. However, it has its basis in real life economics. Again, the law merely sets forth a minimum standard. The famous or infamous Swiss Made Ordinance has, for a number of years, been subject to many criticisms, particularly inside the industry, because it is considered too lax, but also in legal circles, where the view is that it no longer fully meets the legal mandate specified in the companion law on trademarks (SR 232.11).\nIt is not generally known that quite a few Swiss companies have watches assembled in China for export to North America, Asia and even Europe, where the brand name is more important than the “Swiss made” label. Such watches may consist of a Chinese case and a Chinese crystal, a Taiwan-made dial and metal bracelet and Japanese hands. If the movement is to be considered Swiss, 51% of its value must be Swiss and at least the last wheel must be added in Switzerland. Swiss watch brands without the “Swiss made” label are usually equipped with a Japanese movement. The “Swiss parts” label means that the movement is assembled in Asia using kits consisting at least partially of Swiss made components.\nFrom time to time namely in 2003 and more particularly in 2007, there are efforts made to strengthen the definition of \"Swiss made.\" These efforts are normally spearheaded by the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry FH (FH) a trade organization. 30 companies have opposed such efforts under which the lobbying group IG Swiss made. Many are afraid to share their identity but Ronnie Bernheim, co-CEO of Mondaine, has been outspoken on this issue, and defends \"Swissness more as a promise than a physical manifestation.\" Mondaine admits that it uses non-Swiss dials and cases though Bernheim has declined to disclose their country of origin.\n\nThe Swiss federal Council modified the ordinance regulating the use of the \"Swiss\" name for watches in May 1995. This was said to bring the requirements of Swiss watchmaking industry a rubric like those of the European Union. In essence, the revision made it possible to affix indications of \"Swiss made\" on foreign watchcases and dials intended to equip Swiss watches. A watch is considered Swiss whose movement is Swiss, whose movement is encased in Switzerland and whose final control by the manufacturer takes place in Switzerland. Conversely, the Swiss manufacturers of parts destined for foreign watches from then on were authorized to visibly indicate that their products come from Switzerland. These innovations were intended to improve the transparency as regards the source of products. Consumers were expected to clearly recognize from what countries the various constituent parts of the watches came. However, the revisions were not intended to reduce the protection the name \"Swiss made\". Indeed, the high requirements which are imposed with a Swiss watch were said to remain unchanged.\n\nIn 2007, the FH plans to seek political action on a proposal which introduces a new aspect to the definition of Swiss made, in the form of a value criterion.\n\nAccordingly, any mechanical watch in which at least 80% of the production cost is attributable to operations carried out in Switzerland would be considered as a mechanical Swiss watch. For other watches, particularly electronic watches, this rate would be 60%. Technical construction and prototype development would moreover need to be carried out in Switzerland. Raw materials, precious stones and the battery would be excluded from the production cost. The Swiss movement in the existing ordinance already has a value criterion, namely the rate of 50%. Considering that here, too, the definition needs reinforcing, the draft amends these value criteria. For mechanical movements therefore, the rate would be at least 80% of the value of all constituent parts. For other movements, particularly electronic movements, this rate would be 60%. Technical construction and prototype development in Switzerland would also be a requirement in this case. The draft also stipulates other provisions concerning the definition of Swiss constituent parts and assembly in Switzerland.\nThe minimum rate of 60% was not chosen at random: it corresponds to the rate used in the free-trade agreement between Switzerland and the European Union. In addition, with a rate of 80%, the FH proposes to lay particular emphasis on the mechanical watch. With these proposals, objectives in terms of protecting the Swiss made label should be attained. The proposed criteria also take into account the place of manufacture and the origin of components, thereby complying with the law on trademarks which serves as the legal basis of the \"Swiss made\" Ordinance. However, it will be up to the FH General Meeting to reach a final decision on the matter.\n\nThe most popular items by far to have the \"Swiss made\" labels are Swiss watches. Almost all Swiss watchmakers, with the notable exception of Breitling, label their watches prominently on the dial. By convention, the words are fully capitalized, positioned on the bottom of the face, split by the half-hour indicator if available, curved along the bottom edge as necessary. Watches made in other countries typically indicate their country of origin on the back of the watch, except for very few well-known high-end manufacturers.\nBesides watchmakers, Swiss software companies are marking their software with the \"swiss made\" software label to declare the origin of their products.\n\nIn principle, the name \"Switzerland,\" as well as designations such as \"Swiss\", \"Swiss quality\", \"Made in Switzerland\", \"Swiss made\" or others containing the Swiss name, can only be used for products manufactured in Switzerland. This also applies to the translation of any of these terms into any other language.\n\nThe conditions for using \"Switzerland\" or \"Swiss\" for products are defined very generally in the Trademark Law as follows: The origin of goods shall be determined by the place of manufacture or by the origin of the basic materials and components used. The Federal Council can specify such conditions if it is justified by general economic interests or by the interests of individual sectors.\n\nUp until today, this has only been done – after a protracted debate concerning the highly controversial interests in the watch sector – with the “Swiss-made” ordinance for watches (the Watch Ordinance). Besides this regulation, only a sparse number of court opinion on the topic can be found; in particular, the decision of the Commercial Court of St. Gallen according to which the value of the Swiss portion of the manufacturing costs including raw materials, sub-assemblies, accessory parts, salaries, and general manufacturing costs but excluding operating expenses, must be at least 50% and the \"essential manufacturing process\" which must have taken place in Switzerland.\n\nExactly how \"essential manufacturing process\" should be understood has been illustrated by the following two examples:\n\nFor a woven scarf to be considered a product of Swiss origin because of a particular coating it has received in Switzerland which stiffened the fabric (although this clearly is an important characteristic of the quality) is insufficient. In the eyes of the customer, the quality of the woven fabric is such an important characteristic of the product that fabric can only be indicated as being of Swiss origin if it was actually woven in Switzerland.\n\nIn fountain pens, the nib is an important element. But the quality of the fountain pen also primarily depends on the quality of the other parts. According to experience, more repairs are made on the holder than on the nibs for the fountain pens. For this reason, consumers pay attention not only to the quality of the nib but also to the quality of the holder (the feed system, the ink regulating system). That is why these parts of a fountain pen are not considered subsidiary parts. Thus, a fountain pen may not be marked as a Swiss product if only the nib has been manufactured in Switzerland.\n\nThe current legislation contains only very generally formulated conditions\nwhich must be met for using a ‘made in Switzerland’ designation. With the exception of\nwatches, no concrete criteria exist regarding when and by whom a 'made in Switzerland’\ndesignation can be affixed to a product and when it cannot. Appropriate criteria have only been\ndeveloped by individual cantonal courts up until now.\n\nProducts are, however, sold which are not 100% Swiss-manufactured. In such cases, the actual legal practice is based on the rules laid down in Article 48 of the Trademark Law and a 1968 ruling issued by the trade court of St. Gallen, reiterated in 1992. These court rulings outline the conditions for the legal use of the designation “Swiss Made” and similar designations, especially for goods not manufactured in Switzerland in their entirety. In pertinent part the case law holds:\n\nProducts are considered Swiss products if they are fundamentally local products or if they have been completely manufactured in Switzerland. In the case of products that have been only partly manufactured in Switzerland, the rule applies that the Swiss portion of the production cost (including basic materials, semi-finished products, accessories, wages and production overhead excluding distribution costs) must be at least 50%. However, this 50% portion is not the sole criterion for determining the Swiss origin of a product. The origin of the essential components and the manufacturing process through which a product obtains its characteristic\nfeatures, and – in borderline or doubtful cases – the origin of the intellectual property embodied in the product and the special circumstances in the respective industry must also be taken into due consideration.\n\nAccordingly, there are two conditions that must be fulfilled for goods to be legally labelled as being of Swiss origin:\n\n\nThe “most important part of the manufacturing process” is that part of the process that results in a completely new product. The determining factor here is that the original characteristics of the goods are lost through the manufacturing process, and the possible application of the goods is different from that of the basic materials of foreign origin used in their manufacture. In addition, the origin of goods is determined by the place where they are produced, not by where the idea for producing these goods was conceived. A product manufactured in Switzerland under a foreign license will still be Swiss in origin, while a product manufactured abroad using Swiss recipes or Swiss methods will still be foreign in origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56312907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56312907", "title": "University of California v. Katherine Rosen", "text": "University of California v. Katherine Rosen\n\nUniversity of California v. Katherine Rosen, 240 Cal. App. 4th 1296 (2018), was a case in which the Court of Appeal of California, Second Appellate District, Division Seven held that the university's summary judgment motion was wrongly denied in students' action that alleged university breached its duty of care by failing to adopt reasonable measures that would have protected her from another student's violent on-campus attack, as a public university had no general duty to protect its students from criminal acts of other students.\n\nThe case was unanimously overturned by the Supreme Court of California on in Regents of University of California v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County on March 22, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "21223355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21223355", "title": "Uruguayan nationality law", "text": "Uruguayan nationality law\n\nUruguayan nationality law is mostly based on the principle of Jus soli. Its rules are written in the Uruguayan Constitution in Section III, Chapter I. Dual Citizenship is legal under Uruguayan law.\n\nThere are two types of citizens: \"natural\" and \"legal\".\n\n\nA \"legal\" citizen is someone who obtained citizenship after birth. In this case, a language examination is necessary in order to ensure the person knows Spanish. One can obtain the Uruguayan citizenship in three different ways:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23597542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597542", "title": "Vetrazzo", "text": "Vetrazzo\n\nVetrazzo is a Tate, Georgia, based company that is the inventor of recycled glass countertops. This patented process takes industrial waste in large quantities and transforms it into sturdy and beautiful 9 foot by 5 foot polished slabs.\n\nVetrazzo recycled glass countertops were invented in Berkeley in 1996. A materials scientist, Don McPherson, pursuing his PhD combined recycled glass and a cement binder to create a sustainable, polished countertop. The company at that time was known as Counter Productions. The production batches were small and handmade, demanding a more streamlined and repeatable process.\n\nIn 2006, a former customer and designer named Olivia Teter was looking for a new project and found the company in financial straits. She, together with James Sheppard and Jeff Gustafson, partnered to raise capital, buy the product formula and assets behind the Vetrazzo countertops, and co-found what is now Vetrazzo LLC.\n\nThe Vetrazzo manufacturing facility was located in Richmond, California in a recycled Ford assembly plant. The plant is on the National Register of Historic Places and hosts the Rosie the Riveter Museum. It utilizes daylight, controls air pollution with a special negative-pressure dust booth, recycles water and hosts a 1 megawatt solar system manufactured by building tenant Sunpower Corporation.\n\nIn June 2010 Polycor acquired Vetrazzo and move the plant back Georgia where it now shares a manufacturing space with the Georgia Marble company.\n\nVetrazzo claims on their website that their countertops consist of recycled glass and a cement binder. The glass is said to have been sourced from a curbside recycling program, windows, windshields, laboratory glass, stained glass and traffic lights. Vetrazzo's website also claims that their countertops are recyclable at the end of their useful lives.\n\nThe company states that they are proud of their sustainable work, being a member of the United States Green Building Council, a certified B corporation, a certified Bay Area Green Business and a member of the Green Chamber of Commerce.\n\nVetrazzo's website also claims that they are committed to providing green jobs to the low-income neighborhood surrounding their offices and plant. All employees, including factory workers, are said to be provided with health care and full benefits. All Vetrazzo slabs are manufactured in the United States.\n\nVetrazzo was awarded a significant grant from the California Department of Conservation in 2006 and 2008 as part of a program to expand markets for recycled beverage containers. Vetrazzo is also an Environmental Protection Agency Award Winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "483210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483210", "title": "Westlaw", "text": "Westlaw\n\nWestlaw is an online legal research service for lawyers and legal professionals in the United States and the United Kingdom and is a product of Thomson Reuters. In addition, it provides proprietary database services. Information resources on Westlaw include more than 40,000 databases of case law, state and federal statutes, administrative codes, newspaper and magazine articles, public records, law journals, law reviews, treatises, legal forms and other information resources.\n\nMost legal documents on Westlaw are indexed to the West Key Number System, which is West's master classification system of U.S. law. Westlaw supports natural language and Boolean searches. Other significant Westlaw features include KeyCite, a citation checking service, which customers use to determine whether cases or statutes are still good law, and a customizable tabbed interface that lets customers bring their most-used resources to the top. Other tabs organize Westlaw content around the specific work needs of litigators, in-house corporate practitioners, and lawyers who specialize in any of over 150 legal topics. Most customers are attorneys or law students, but other individuals can also obtain accounts.\n\nWestlaw was originated by West Publishing, a company whose headquarters have been in Eagan, Minnesota since 1992; West was acquired by The Thomson Corporation in 1996. Several of Thomson's law-related businesses outside the United States have their own Westlaw sites, and Westlaw's international content is available online. For instance, Westlaw Canada from Carswell includes the Canadian Abridgment and KeyCite Canada, and Westlaw UK provides information from Sweet & Maxwell and independent law reports, case analysis and case status icons. More recently, Westlaw China was introduced, with laws and regulations, cases, digests, and status icons (similar to KeyCite flags), for the law of the People's Republic of China. Westlaw Ireland (IE) was established in 2002, covering information found in Round Hall publications as well as legislation, books, cases, current awareness and full-text articles from many of the country's notable legal journals. In total, Westlaw is used in over 68 countries.\n\nWestlaw is descended from QUIC/LAW, a Canadian computer-assisted legal research project operated by Queen's University from 1968 to 1973. The original name stood for \"Queen's University Investigation of Computers and Law.\" It was directed by Hugh Lawford and Richard von Briesen, and the original code was based on an internal IBM text search project called INFORM/360. The IBM code turned out to be incomplete and required substantial modifications. In 1973, the project was commercialized in the form of a new company called QL Systems and a new product name, QL/SEARCH. In 1976, QL Systems licensed the QL/SEARCH software to West Publishing as the original foundation for what would become Westlaw. \n\nWest's chief competitor in the legal information retrieval market is LexisNexis. (Ironically, Lawford and von Briesen sold what by then was called QuickLaw to LexisNexis in 2002.) Both Westlaw and LexisNexis started in the 1970s as dial-up services with dedicated terminals. The earliest versions used acoustic couplers or key phones; then smaller terminals with internal modems. Westlaw's terminal was known as WALT, for West Automatic Law Terminal.\n\nAround 1989, both started offering programs for personal computers that emulated the terminals, and when Internet access became available, an Internet address (such as westlaw.com) became an alternative that could be selected within the \"Communications Setup\" option in the client program, instead of a dial-up number. West's program was known as Westmate. It was based on Borland C++ around 1997, and then changed to a program compiled on a Microsoft platform that incorporated portions of Internet Explorer. This was the first program to incorporate HTML; prior to that, Westmate had \"jumps\" indicated by triangles instead of \"links.\" Shortly after that, both publishers started developing web browser interfaces, with Westlaw's being notable for the use of \"web dialogs,\" emulating the piling of open books on a table. Westmate was discontinued on June 30, 2007.\n\nWest introduced WestlawNext on February 8, 2010. The main advances are that a user can start a search without first selecting a database, which is helpful because WestLaw has over 40,000 databases, and the search screen allows one to click checkboxes to select the jurisdiction and nature of material wanted. A new search algorithm, referred to as WestSearch, claimed to be the world's most advanced legal research engine, executes a federated search across multiple content types. Users can either enter descriptive terms or Boolean connectors and select a jurisdiction. Documents are ranked by relevance. WestlawNext also supports retrieving documents by citation, party name or KeyCite reference. An overview page enables users to see the top results per content type, or to view all results for a particular content type. Filters can also be applied to refine the result list even further. On the results page, users can also see links to related secondary sources relevant to their research. WestlawNext also provides folders for storing portions of the research selected by the user.\n\nThe classic Westlaw.com platform was retired in August 2015. WestlawNext was renamed \"Thomson Reuters Westlaw\", effective in February 2016.\n\nKeyCite is a case citator used in United States legal research that provides a list of all the authorities citing a particular case, statute, or other legal authority.\n\nVerification of citations is necessary, because lawyers must determine whether a case has been reversed, overruled, or modified by a subsequent case before citing it in court. Further, when interpreting a statute it is necessary to examine previous judicial interpretations. The United States judiciary operates under the principle of \"stare decisis\" – a system of legal precedents – to ensure the courts deliver consistent rulings on similar legal issues, regardless of the political or social status of the parties involved. As such, legal professionals must be certain that the legal citations they use to reinforce their arguments are accurate and still \"good law.\"\n\nKeyCite leverages Westlaw technologies, West's attorney-authored case law headnotes and the West Key Number System to determine and immediately alert legal professionals that case law they are reviewing has been either overturned, or may have history that deems the precedential value of the opinion invalid.\n\nKeyCite was introduced to Westlaw in 1997 and was the first service to seriously challenge Shepard's Citations, on which legal professionals relied for generations. Shepard's had become such a necessary part of legal research, that citation checking is still informally referred to as \"Shepardizing.\"\n\nIn 2004, KeyCite was the most-used citation checking service in an annual survey of law firm technology use conducted by the American Bar Association.\n\nWestCheck is software that extracts citations from a word processing document and submits them to KeyCite or to Westlaw for retrieval of full text documents. The software consists of a standalone program and word processor add-in, either of which may be used, and a web site with the same functionality.\n\nWest also provides BriefTools, which replaces West CiteLink, and provides citation checking and file retrieval services within a word processing document. Another version only inserts Westlaw links into documents.\n\nWest CiteAdvisor formats citations and creates a table of authorities. Like WestCheck, it is available online at http://citeadvisor.westlaw.com, or as software for a word processor.\n\nWestlaw CourtExpress, allows searching of court docket information.\n\nWestlaw Watch, allows users to manage periodic monitoring of news and other databases for topics of interest.\n\nWestlaw WebPlus on provides a web search engine with a focus on legal information sites.\n\nThe Westlaw Litigator website, provides access to legal calendaring and other litigation related applications.\n\nThe West Key Number System is a master classification system of U.S. law, and is claimed to be \"the only recognized legal taxonomy.\" The West Key Number System was created by West Publishing Company and can be described as a highly detailed index of over 110,000 legal topics and sub-topics. The index serves as the backbone for legal information published by West, which appears in the company's print publications, and now on Westlaw.\n\nTWEN is Westlaw's online courseware that is specifically tailored for law schools. It is used as an online extension of the classroom. Teachers use it to post syllabi, PowerPoint presentations, class materials and announcements. TWEN is also used for emailing, forum posting, live chats, polling and posting/submitting assignments. (In terms of this range of functionality, TWEN is similar to other educational systems such as Blackboard, marketed by Blackboard Inc.).\n\nLaw school professors occasionally use it for their classes, and it is also used by librarians and career services offices. Students can also create and manage their own courses for law reviews, journals and any student organization.\n\nIn February 2005, after the ChoicePoint identity theft incidents became public, U.S. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) publicized the fact that Westlaw has a database containing a large amount of private information on practically all living Americans. Besides widely available information such as addresses and phone numbers, Westlaw also includes Social Security numbers (SSNs), previous addresses, dates of birth, and other information lawyers use to do background checks on behalf of their clients. While there is no known case of identity theft involving Westlaw, the company responded to the controversy by announcing it had eliminated access to full SSNs for 85 percent of its clients who previously could retrieve this information, mostly lawyers and government agencies.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Westlaw sued LexisNexis over copyright infringement. LexisNexis's \"star pagination\" system, a feature that let users of either research system find the printed page of a case without looking to the actual book, was found to infringe West's copyrights by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota. After Lexis' appeals were turned down by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, the company entered into an agreement to pay West $50,000 per year to license West's pagination and text corrections. No other publisher was offered similar terms, and the terms of the agreement were kept secret until they came out during discovery in the Matthew Bender / HyperLaw v. West lawsuit.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Alan Sugarman, who runs HyperLaw, sued West. The District Court in New York and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals held that West did not have copyright on the corrections it made on opinions or on the internal pagination.\n\n\n"}
