{"id": "32251160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32251160", "title": "2010 Cabinet of the Zimbabwe Government of National Unity", "text": "2010 Cabinet of the Zimbabwe Government of National Unity\n\nIn June 2011, Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai reshuffled the portion of the cabinet appointed by his party (MDC-T), within the Government of National Unity that was formed on 13 February 2009. Ministers appointed by the other two parties were not reshuffled.\n\n[[ edit table]]\n\nThe following have been nominated, but not yet sworn in:\n\n"}
{"id": "42516294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42516294", "title": "Abraham Shushan", "text": "Abraham Shushan\n\nAbraham Lazard Shushan, Sr. (January 12, 1894 - November 3, 1966) was an American politician in the middle of the 20th century. A friend and political associate of U.S. Senator Huey P. Long, Shushan was an important political figure in Louisiana during the 1920s and 1930s, before scandals drove him from public office.\n\nShushan was born in Bougere (now part of Reserve), Louisiana. He was first employed during his early teens by Shushan Brothers, a New Orleans wholesale dry goods business established by his father and uncle. Shushan became a partner in the firm in 1916 and president of the firm in 1931.\n\nShushan became involved in Louisiana politics as a supporter in the political machine of Huey Long. Long was criticized by Gerald L. K. Smith, a racist and anti-semitic politician, of having \"too many Jews\" in circle, which \"Shushan resented.\" After Long was assassinated, Shushan and his allies had Smith fired and his Share Our Wealth program eliminated.\n\nAppointed to the New Orleans Levee Board in 1920 by Governor John M. Parker, he was reappointed by successive administrations and became president of the Board in 1929. He was a member of the Levee Board during the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927.\n\nShushan was involved in fundraising for John H. Overton during the Election of 1932, which lead later to legal trouble for him. The defeated incumbent, Edwin S. Broussard, accused Overton, and Shushan and his other supporters of voter fraud; the United States Senate held hearings, but Overton was seated without opposition.\n\nIt was under his direction that the lakefront sea wall and the New Orleans Lakefront Airport were constructed. Originally, in 1934, that airport was named in his honor. In 1935, he was tried for Federal tax and money laundering charges under the Internal Revenue Code by a special prosecutor, former Texas Governor Dan Moody, but was found not guilty. However, due to the scandal, his name was literally and figuratively removed from the airport, in a move similar to a \"Damnatio memoriae\". His role in the Long machine ended due to the tax evasion scandal, despite his acquittal. The scandal was cited by scholar Zephyr Teachout as one of the most notorious corruption scandals in American history.\n\nHe ended up being sued by Louisiana Attorney General on behalf of the Levee Board, and the case reached the Louisiana Supreme Court in 1940. In 1941, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld Shushan's conviction for wire fraud.\n\nShushan died in New Orleans on November 3, 1966, in a plane crash.\n"}
{"id": "3212386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3212386", "title": "Active living", "text": "Active living\n\nActive living is a way of life that integrates physical activity into your everyday routines, such as walking to the store or biking to work. Active living brings together urban planners, architects, transportation engineers, public health professionals, activists and other professionals to build places that encourage active living and physical activity. One example includes efforts to build sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian crossing signals and other ways for children to walk safely to and from school, as seen in the Safe Routes to School program. Recreational opportunities (parks, fitness centres etc.) close to the home or workplace, walking trails and bike lanes for transportation also encourage a more active lifestyle. Active living is a combination of physical activity and recreation activities aimed at the general public to encourage a healthier lifestyle.\n\nActive living is a growing field that emerged from the early work of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with the release of the Surgeon's General Report on Physical Activity and Health in 1996. In 1997, the CDC began the development of an initiative called Active Community Environments (ACEs) coordinated by Rich Killingsworth (the founding director of active living by Design ) and Tom Schmid, a senior health scientist. The main programming thrust of ACEs was an emerging initiative called Safe Routes to School that was catalyzed by a program designed by Rich Killingsworth and Jessica Shisler at CDC called KidsWalk-to-School. This program provided much needed attention to the connections of the built environment and health, especially obesity and physical inactivity. In 2000, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation formally launched their active living initiative which comprised three national programs - Active Living by Design, Active Living Research, and Active for Life. The main goal of these programs was to develop an understanding how the built environment impacted physical activity and what could be done to increase physical activity.\n\nThere are many health related benefits to being physically active and living an active life. Active living can help to reduce the risk of chronic diseases, improve your overall health and well-being, reduce stress levels, minimize health related medical costs, help you to maintain a healthy weight, assist in proper balance and posture and the maintenance of healthy bones and strong muscles. Active living can also improve your sleeping patterns and aid in the prevention of risk factors for heart disease such as blood cholesterol levels, diabetes and hypertension.\n\nThere are three types of physical exercises that a person can do to keep active: endurance, flexibility and strength activities. \nIt is easy to incorporate endurance, flexibility and strength activities into your daily routine for active living. Activities such as normal household chores can fit into more than one of the above categories, and it is simple enough to switch to using the stairs instead of taking the elevators at work.\n\nIn Canada, the Public Health Agency of Canada supported the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology (CSEP) to review the Canada's Physical Activity Guides, which were updated and replaced with the Get Active Tip Sheets. The Get Active Tip Sheets are broken down into 4 age categories (5-11, 12-17, 18-64 and 65 & older).\n\nThe Get Active Tip Sheets recommend that children aged 5–11 and youth aged 12–17 should participate in at least 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity each day. The recommendation for adults 18-64 and for older adults 65 years and older is at least 2.5 hours of moderate to vigorous physical activity per week. These minutes do not all need to be done at the same time, but the recommendation is a minimum of 10 minutes at a time.\n\nIn Canada, there are many active living initiatives currently in place. One of the most well known programs is the ParticipACTION program, which aims to encourage Canadians to move more and increase their physical activity levels. Their mission statement is \"ParticipACTION is the national voice of physical activity and sport participation in Canada. \nThrough leadership in communications, capacity building and knowledge exchange, we inspire and support Canadians to move more.\" Since the 1970s, ParticipACTION has been motivating Canadians to live actively and participate in sports.\n\nTo help be active at older ages you should look into programs like ALC(active living center)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38849690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38849690", "title": "Bundism", "text": "Bundism\n\nBundism was a secular Jewish socialist movement, whose organizational manifestation was the General Jewish Labour Bund in Lithuania, Poland and Russia (), founded in the Russian Empire in 1897.\n\nThe Jewish Labour Bund was an important component of the social democratic movement in the Russian empire until the 1917 Russian Revolution; the Bundists initially opposed the October Revolution, but ended up supporting it due to pogroms committed by the Volunteer Army of the White movement during the Russian Civil War. Split along communist and social democratic lines throughout the Civil War, a faction supported the Bolsheviks and eventually was absorbed by the Communist Party.\n\nThe anti-Communist socialist Bundist movement continued to exist as a political party in independent Poland in the interwar period as the General Jewish Labour Bund in Poland, becoming a major, if not \"the\" major, political force within Polish Jewry. Bundists were active in the anti-Nazi struggle, and many of its members were killed during the Holocaust.\n\nAfter the war, the International Jewish Labor Bund, more properly the \"World Coordinating Council of the Jewish Labor Bund\", was founded in New York, with affiliated groups in Argentina, Australia, Canada, France, Israel, Mexico, the United Kingdom, the United States and other countries.\n\nWhile the Jewish Labour Bund [\"circle\"] was a trade union as well as a political party, its initial purpose was the organisation of the Jewish proletariat in Russia, Poland and Lithuania.\n\nA staunchly secular party, the Jewish Labour Bund took part in kehillot elections in Poland.\n\nThe Jewish Labour Bund, while not initially interested in the Yiddish \"per se\" as anything more than a vehicle to exhort the masses of Jewish workers in Eastern Europe, soon saw the language and the larger Yiddish culture as a value and promoted the use of Yiddish as a Jewish national language in its own right; to some extent, the promotion of Yiddish was part and parcel of the Bund's opposition to the Zionist movement, and its project of reviving Hebrew.\n\nThe concept of Doikayt (lit. \"hereness\", Yiddish = do-ikayt, do'ikayt; German = Da-keit; French = \"ici-té\") was central to the Bundist ideology, expressing its focus on solving the challenges confronting Jews in the country in which they lived, versus the \"thereness\" of the Zionist movement, which posited the necessity of an independent Jewish polity in its ancestral homeland, i.e., the Land of Israel, to secure Jewish life.\n\nThe Jewish Labour Bund did not advocate ethnic or religious separatism, but focused on culture, not a state or a place, as the glue of Jewish nationhood, within the context of a world of multi-cultural and multi-ethnic countries. In this the Bundists borrowed extensively from the Austro-Marxist concept of national personal autonomy; this approach alienated the Bolsheviks and Lenin, who were derisive of and politically opposed to Bundism.\n\nIn a 1904 text, \"Social democracy and the national question\", Vladimir Medem exposed his version of this concept:\n\n\"Let us consider the case of a country composed of several national groups, e.g. Poles, Lithuanians and Jews. Each national group would create a separate movement. All citizens belonging to a given national group would join a special organisation that would hold cultural assemblies in each region and a general cultural assembly for the whole country. The assemblies would be given financial powers of their own: either each national group would be entitled to raise taxes on its members, or the state would allocate a proportion of its overall budget to each of them. Every citizen of the state would belong to one of the national groups, but the question of which national movement to join would be a matter of personal choice and no authority would have any control over his decision. The national movements would be subject to the general legislation of the state, but in their own areas of responsibility they would be autonomous and none of them would have the right to interfere in the affairs of the others\".\n\nThe Jewish Labour Bund, as an organization, was formed at the same time as the World Zionist Organization. The Bund eventually came to strongly oppose Zionism, arguing that emigration to Palestine was a form of escapism. After the 1936 Warsaw kehilla elections, Henryk Ehrlich created an incident by accusing Zionist leaders Yitzhak Gruenbaum and Ze'ev Jabotinsky of being responsible for recent anti-Semitic agitation in Poland by their campaign urging Jewish emigration.\n\nThe Bund was against the UNGA vote on the partition of Palestine and reaffirmed its support for a single bi-national country that would guarantee equal national rights for the Jewish and Arab-Palestinian populations and would that it be under the control of superpowers and the UN.\n\nA branch of the Jewish Labour Bund was created in Israel in 1951, the Arbeter-ring in Yisroel – Brith Haavoda, which even took part in the 1959 Knesset elections, with a very low electoral result. Its publication, Lebns Fregyn, is still being published as of 2014. It is one of the relatively few left-wing Yiddish-language publications in existence.\n\nThe 1955 Montreal 3rd World Conference of the International Jewish Labor Bund decided that the creation of the Jewish state was an important event in Jewish history that might play a positive role in Jewish life, but felt that a few necessary changes were needed. The conference participants demanded that:\n\nThe World Coordinating Council of the Jewish Labour Bund was quietly disbanded by a number of Bundists and representatives of related organizations, including the Workmen's Circle and the Congress for Jewish Culture in the early 2000s.\n\nThe London-based Jewish Socialists' Group, which publishes the magazine Jewish Socialist, considers itself an heir of the historic Jewish Labour Bund.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6920255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6920255", "title": "Centre for the Study of Democracy (Queen's University, Ontario)", "text": "Centre for the Study of Democracy (Queen's University, Ontario)\n\nThe Centre for the Study of Democracy (CSD) is a multidisciplinary policy studies research organization which enhances the study of democracy both within Canada and abroad. Founded in the mid-1990s, CSD is a non-profit, non-partisan organization affiliated with the School of Policy Studies at Queen's University, in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. CSD is chaired by Dr. Thomas Axworthy, Principal Secretary and Chief Speechwriter for Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau in the early 1980s.\n\nThe CSD operates on the principle that building local knowledge of democratization and good governance is the most effective means of allowing countries undergoing democratic transitions to successfully manage this change over the long term, as well as being able to effectively respond to crises. CSD works extensively with local partners to provide both the pedagogical experience expertise and practical experience necessary to assist in the development of local democratic values programs as well as providing contacts to others who have succeeded in similar efforts.\n\nThe CSD focuses on research, mutual learning and executive development programming, designed to increase indigenous capacity to produce, debate and disseminate research about democracy.\n\nThe CSD is guided by three principles: to work jointly with individuals or institutions abroad on research projects of mutual interest that contributes to democratic governance, to commit to local partners to establish democratic capacity (a process which often takes years), and to use this experience to teach the lessons learned to other countries.\n\nThe CSD was founded by Dr. George Perlin, Professor Emeritus in the School of Policy Studies at Queen's University, who specializes in the study of Ukraine. He initiated one of the most extensive project undertaken by the Centre, which involved the development of a Democratic Values Curriculum in Ukraine, the Canada-Ukraine Democracy Education Project, which is ongoing.\n\n\n\n\nThe Centre also organizes numerous events at Queen's University, regularly hosting guest lectures for the School of Policy Studies, and organizing periodic conferences on topics of interest. Conferences organized by the Centre have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13213862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13213862", "title": "Church Action on Poverty", "text": "Church Action on Poverty\n\nChurch Action on Poverty is a UK-based national ecumenical Christian social justice charity, committed to tackling poverty in the United Kingdom. Church Action on Poverty works in partnership with churches and with people in poverty themselves to find solutions to poverty, locally, nationally and globally.\n\nChurch Action on Poverty was formed in 1982, has its main offices in Manchester and is charity number 1079986. The first Director of CAP was the MP John Battle, the second Director was former government minister Paul Goggins. The current Director is Niall Cooper.\n\nChurch Action on Poverty emphasises the need for people in poverty to have a voice in decisions which affect them, and focuses on participation and empowerment. An example of this approach is their 'poverty hearing' model.\n\nChurch Action on Poverty currently runs campaigns which are connected by the theme 'Close the Gap', aiming to tackle economic inequality and close the gap between rich and poor. The organisation has successfully campaigned for all the UK's major Christian denominations to support the Living Wage.\n\nPreviously, Church Action on Poverty ran the Living Ghosts campaign highlighting the destitution of asylum seekers in the UK. It also helped to set up and run the Debt on our Doorstep campaign against loan sharks and extortionate lending practices such as payday loans.\n\nChurch Action on Poverty has pioneered the use of international development approaches to tackle UK poverty. Examples include participatory budgeting (which was taken up by the Labour government in 2007), sustainable livelihoods analysis, and Freirean popular education in the form of 'Schools of Participation'.\n\nThe People's Budget is a campaign for more participatory budgeting in UK led by the Church Action on Poverty who planned campaign workshops across the UK in London, St. Helens, Merseyside, Dudley, Tameside, Leeds and Tyneside.\n\nThe Church Action on Poverty feels that billions of pounds of money is being used by public bodies without any involvement of local people. 'The People's Budget' campaign is about helping British citizens understand how to influence their local council, health organisation, police force or housing provider. The campaign works with groups and individual to promote:\n\n"}
{"id": "230079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230079", "title": "Cross-cultural communication", "text": "Cross-cultural communication\n\nCross-cultural communication is a field of study that looks at how people from differing cultural backgrounds communicate, in similar and different ways among themselves, and how they endeavor to communicate across cultures. Intercultural communication is a related field of study.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the economy of the United States was largely self-contained because the world was polarized into two separate and competing powers: the East and the West. However, changes and advancements in economic relationships, political systems, and technological options began to break down old cultural barriers. Business transformed from individual-country capitalism to global capitalism. Thus, the study of cross-cultural communication was originally found within businesses and government, both seeking to expand globally. Businesses began to offer language training to their employees and programs were developed to train employees to understand how to act when abroad. With this also came the development of the Foreign Service Institute, or FSI, through the Foreign Service Act of 1946, where government employees received training and prepared for overseas posts. There began also implementation of a “world view” perspective in the curriculum of higher education.\nIn 1974, the International Progress Organization, with the support of UNESCO and under the auspices of Senegalese President Léopold Sédar Senghor, held an international conference on \"The Cultural Self-comprehension of Nations\" (Innsbruck, Austria, 27–29 July 1974) which called upon United Nations member states \"to organize systematic and global comparative research on the different cultures of the world\" and \"to make all possible efforts for a more intensive training of diplomats in the field of international cultural co-operation ... and to develop the cultural aspects of their foreign policy.\"\n\nThere has become an increasing pressure for universities across the world to incorporate intercultural and international understanding and knowledge into the education of their students. International literacy and cross-cultural understanding have become critical to a country’s cultural, technological, economic, and political health. It has become essential for universities to educate, or more importantly, “transform”, to function effectively and comfortably in a world characterized by close, multi-faceted relationships and permeable borders. Students must possess a certain level of global competence to understand the world they live in and how they fit into this world. This level of global competence starts at ground level- the university and its faculty- with how they generate and transmit cross-cultural knowledge and information to students.\n\nCross-cultural communication endeavors to bring together the relatively unrelated fields of cultural anthropology with established areas of communication. At its core, cross-cultural communication involves understanding the ways in which culturally distinct individuals communicate with each other. Its charge is to also produce some guidelines with which people from different cultures can better communicate with each other.\n\nCross-cultural communication requires an interdisciplinary approach. It involves literacy in fields such as anthropology, cultural studies, psychology and communication. The field has also moved both toward the treatment of interethnic relations, and toward the study of communication strategies used by co-cultural populations, i.e., communication strategies used to deal with majority or mainstream populations.\n\nThe study of languages other than one's own can serve not only to help one understand what we as humans have in common, but also to assist in the understanding of the diversity which underlines our languages' methods of constructing and organizing knowledge. Such understanding has profound implications with respect to developing a critical awareness of social relationships. Understanding social relationships and the way other cultures work is the groundwork of successful globalization business affairs.\n\nLanguage socialization can be broadly defined as “an investigation of how language both presupposes and creates anew, social relations in cultural context”. It is imperative that the speaker understands the grammar of a language, as well as how elements of language are socially situated in order to reach communicative competence. Human experience is culturally relevant, so elements of language are also culturally relevant. One must carefully consider semiotics and the evaluation of sign systems to compare cross-cultural norms of communication. There are several potential problems that come with language socialization, however. Sometimes people can over-generalize or label cultures with stereotypical and subjective characterizations. Another primary concern with documenting alternative cultural norms revolves around the fact that no social actor uses language in ways that perfectly match normative characterizations. A methodology for investigating how an individual uses language and other semiotic activity to create and use new models of conduct and how this varies from the cultural norm should be incorporated into the study of language socialization.\n\nWith increasing globalization and international trade, it is unavoidable that different cultures will meet, conflict, and blend together. People from different culture find it is difficult to communicate not only due to language barriers, but also are affected by culture styles. For instance, in individualistic cultures, such as in the United States, Canada, and Western Europe, an independent figure or self is dominant. This independent figure is characterized by a sense of self relatively distinct from others and the environment. In interdependent cultures, usually identified as Asian, Latin American, African, and Southern European cultures, an interdependent figure of self is dominant. There is a much greater emphasis on the interrelatedness of the individual to others and the environment; the self is meaningful only (or primarily) in the context of social relationships, duties, and roles. In some degree, the effect brought by cultural difference override the language gap. This culture style difference contributes to one of the biggest challenges for cross-culture communication. Effective communication with people of different cultures is especially challenging. Cultures provide people with ways of thinking—ways of seeing, hearing, and interpreting the world. Thus the same words can mean different things to people from different cultures, even when they speak the \"same\" language. When the languages are different, and translation has to be used to communicate, the potential for misunderstandings increases. The study of cross-cultural communication is a global research area. As a result, cultural differences in the \"study\" of cross-cultural communication can already be found. For example, cross-cultural communication is generally considered part of communication studies in the US, but is emerging as a sub-field of applied linguistics in the UK.\n\nThe application of cross-cultural communication theory to foreign language education is increasingly appreciated around the world. Cross-cultural communication classes can now be found within foreign language departments of some universities, while other schools are placing cross-cultural communication programs in their departments of education.\n\nWith the increasing pressures and opportunities of globalization, the incorporation of international networking alliances has become an “essential mechanism for the internationalization of higher education”. Many universities from around the world have taken great strides to increase intercultural understanding through processes of organizational change and innovations. In general, university processes revolve around four major dimensions which include: organizational change, curriculum innovation, staff development, and student mobility. Ellingboe emphasizes these four major dimensions with his own specifications for the internationalization process. His specifications include: (1) college leadership; (2) faculty members' international involvement in activities with colleagues, research sites, and institutions worldwide; (3) the availability, affordability, accessibility, and transferability of study abroad programs for students; (4) the presence and integration of international students, scholars, and visiting faculty into campus life; and (5) international co-curricular units (residence halls, conference planning centers, student unions, career centers, cultural immersion and language houses, student activities, and student organizations).\n\nAbove all, universities need to make sure that they are open and responsive to changes in the outside environment. In order for internationalization to be fully effective, the university (including all staff, students, curriculum, and activities) needs to be current with cultural changes, and willing to adapt to these changes. As stated by Ellingboe, internationalization “is an ongoing, future-oriented, multidimensional, interdisciplinary, leadership-driven vision that involves many stakeholders working to change the internal dynamics of an institution to respond and adapt appropriately to an increasingly diverse, globally focused, ever-changing external environment\". New distance learning technologies, such as interactive teleconferencing, enable students located thousands of miles apart to communicate and interact in a virtual classroom.\n\nResearch has indicated that certain themes and images such as children, animals, life cycles, relationships, and sports can transcend cultural differences, and may be used in international settings such as traditional and online university classrooms to create common ground among diverse cultures (Van Hook, 2011).\n\nThe main theories for cross-cultural communication are based on the work done looking at value differences between different cultures, especially the works of Edward T. Hall, Richard D. Lewis, Geert Hofstede, and Fons Trompenaars. Clifford Geertz was also a contributor to this field. Also Jussi V. Koivisto's model on cultural crossing in internationally operating organizations elaborates from this base of research.\n\nThese theories have been applied to a variety of different communication theories and settings, including general business and management (Fons Trompenaars and Charles Hampden-Turner) and marketing (Marieke de Mooij, Stephan Dahl). There have also been several successful educational projects which concentrate on the practical applications of these theories in cross-cultural situations.\n\nThese theories have also been criticized mainly by management scholars (e.g. Nigel Holden) for being based on the culture concept derived from 19th century cultural anthropology and emphasizing on culture-as-difference and culture-as-essence. Another criticism has been the uncritical way Hofstede’s dimensions are served up in textbooks as facts (Peter W. Cardon). There is a move to focus on 'cross-cultural interdependence' instead of the traditional views of comparative differences and similarities between cultures. Cross-cultural management is increasingly seen as a form of knowledge management. While there is debate in academia, over what cross-cultural teams can do in practice, a meta-analysis by Günter Stahl, Martha Maznevski, Andreas Voigt and Karsten Jonsen on research done on multicultural groups, concluded \"Research suggests that cultural diversity leads to process losses through task conflict and decreased social integration, but to process gains through increased creativity and satisfaction.\" \n\nMany Master of Science in Management programs have an internationalization specialization which may place a focus on cross-cultural communication. For example, the Ivey Business School has a course titled Cross Cultural Management.\n\nCross cultural communication gives opportunities to share ideas, experiences, and different perspectives and perception by interacting with local people.\n\nWYSE International is a worldwide educational charity specializing in education and development for emerging leaders established in 1989. It is a non-governmental organization associated with the Department of Public Information of the United Nations.\n\nOver 3000 participants from 110 countries have attended their courses, they have run in 5 continents. Its flagship International Leadership Programme is a 12-day residential course for 30 people from on average 20 different countries (aged 18 – 35).\n\nWYSE International's website states its aims are to:\n\"provide education independently of political, religious or social backgrounds and promote visionary leadership capable of responding to evolving world needs.\"\n\nMEET - Middle East Education through Technology is an innovative educational initiative aimed at creating a common professional language between Israeli and Palestinian young leaders. Israeli and Palestinian students are selected through an application process and work in small bi-national teams to develop technology and business projects for local impact. Through this process of cross-cultural communication, students build mutual respect, cultural competence and understanding of each others.\n\nThere are several parameters that may be perceived differently by people of different cultures:\n\n\nNonverbal contact involves everything from something as obvious as eye contact and facial expressions to more discreet forms of expression such as the use of space. Experts have labeled the term kinesics to mean communicating through body movement. Huseman, author of \"Business Communication\", explains that the two most prominent ways of communication through kinesics are eye contact and facial expressions.\n\nEye contact, Huseman goes on to explain, is the key factor in setting the tone between two individuals and greatly differs in meaning between cultures. In the Americas and Western Europe, eye contact is interpreted the same way, conveying interest and honesty. People who avoid eye contact when speaking are viewed in a negative light, withholding information and lacking in general confidence. However, in the Middle East, Africa, and especially Asia, eye contact is seen as disrespectful and even challenging of one's authority. People who make eye contact, but only briefly, are seen as respectful and courteous. \n\nFacial expressions are their own language by comparison and universal throughout all cultures. Dale Leathers, for example, states that facial expression can communicate ten basic classes of meaning.\n\nThe final part to nonverbal communication lies in our gestures, and can be broken down into five subcategories:\nEmblems refer to sign language (such as, thumbs up, one of the most recognized symbols in the world) \nIllustrators mimic what is spoken (such as gesturing how much time is left by holding up a certain number of fingers). \nRegulators act as a way of conveying meaning through gestures (raising up a hand for instance indicates that one has a certain question about what was just said) and become more complicated since the same regulator can have different meanings across different cultures (making a circle with a hand, for instance, in the Americas means agreement, in Japan is symbolic for money, and in France conveys the notion of worthlessness). \nAffect displays reveal emotions such as happiness (through a smile) or sadness (mouth trembling, tears). \nAdaptors are more subtle such as a yawn or clenching fists in anger.\n\nThe last nonverbal type of communication deals with communication through the space around people, or proxemics. Huseman goes on to explain that Hall identifies three types of space:\n\nOral and written communication is generally easier to learn, adapt and deal with in the business world for the simple fact that each language is unique. The one difficulty that comes into play is paralanguage, how something is said.\n\nAccording to Michael Walsh and Ghil'ad Zuckermann, Western conversational interaction is typically \"dyadic\", between two particular people, where eye contact is important and the speaker controls the interaction; and \"contained\" in a relatively short, defined time frame. However, traditional Australian Aboriginal conversational interaction is \"communal\", broadcast to many people, eye contact is not important, the listener controls the interaction; and \"continuous\", spread over a longer, indefinite time frame.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6143371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6143371", "title": "Drop City", "text": "Drop City\n\nDrop City was a counterculture artists' community that formed in southern Colorado in 1965. Abandoned by the early 1970s, Drop City became known as the first rural \"hippie commune\".\n\nIn 1965, the four original founders, Gene Bernofsky (\"Curly\"), JoAnn Bernofsky (\"Jo\"), Richard Kallweit (\"Lard\"), and Clark Richert (\"Clard\"), art students and filmmakers from the University of Kansas and University of Colorado, bought a tract of land about four miles (6 km) north of Trinidad, in southeastern Colorado. Their intention was to create a live-in work of Drop Art, continuing an art concept they had developed earlier at the University of Kansas. Drop Art (sometimes called \"droppings\") was informed by the \"happenings\" of Allan Kaprow and the impromptu performances, a few years earlier, of John Cage, Robert Rauschenberg, and Buckminster Fuller, at Black Mountain College.\n\nAs Drop City gained notoriety in the 1960s underground, people from around the world came to stay and work on the construction projects. Inspired by the architectural ideas of Buckminster Fuller and Steve Baer, residents constructed domes and zonohedra to house themselves, using geometric panels made from the metal of automobile roofs and other inexpensive materials. In 1967 the group, now consisting of 10 core people, won Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion award for their constructions. The Firesign Theatre folks had a commercial—\"kids, tear the top off your daddy's car, and send it, together with 10 cents in cash or coin, to Drop City, Colorado...\"\n\nThe community grew in reputation and size, accelerated by media attention, including news reports on national television networks. The peak of Drop City's fame was the Joy Festival in June 1967, which attracted hundreds of hippies, some of whom stayed on. With the complex of eight domes and geometric buildings constructed, Curly and Jo, the only official owners of the property, signed it over to a non-profit corporation consisting of the entire core group (then about a dozen). The deed stipulated that the land was \"forever free and open to all people\". But tensions and personality conflicts were already a problem within the group, and soon became unbearable. By the end of 1968, some of the original occupants of the community had moved to Boulder, Colorado, to start an artists' cooperative, \"Criss-Cross\", whose purpose, like Drop City's, was to function in a \"synergetic\" interaction between peers (no bosses) to create experimental artistic innovation. Among the innovative endeavors to evolve out of Drop City are: \n\nBy 1970, many intentional communities had developed in Southern Colorado and Northern New Mexico, some of which were inspired by Drop City. Libre, north of Gardner, Colorado, was founded by several ex-\"Droppers\", and was among the more well known. Some communities continue to exist in some form today (notably in the Taos, NM area).\n\nAt Drop City, debris and building remnants from the original settlement remain at the site today, though it is not inhabited. By 1977 it was abandoned, and the members of the non-profit who were still in touch decided to sell off the site to the cattle rancher next door. The last of the iconic domes was taken down only in the late 1990s, by a truck repair facility which now occupies a portion of the site.\n\nIn 1993, an Indie Rock band from Sydney, Australia formed using the name Drop City. In 2007, a different, Denver based, Indie Rock band formed with the same name.\n\nIn 1971, author, and Drop City resident, Peter Rabbit's novel \"Drop City\" was published.\n\nIn 2003, author T. C. Boyle's novel \"Drop City\" was published.\n\nIn 2010, inspired by the Drop City commune, COMUNE opened a Drop City gallery space in the Los Angeles area.\n\nThe indie rock band Ultimate Painting, formed in 2013, is named after one of the paintings made by the Drop City community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58087041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58087041", "title": "Esperanto workers movement", "text": "Esperanto workers movement\n\nThe Esperanto workers movement (\"Laborista Esperanto-movado\") has the goal of taking practical advantage of the international planned language Esperanto for advancing the goals of the labour movement, especially the fight against unrestrained capitalism. It is not only a political movement in the strict sense but also a cultural and educational one. Currently the principal Esperanto associations active in the Esperanto workers movement at the global level are the \"Sennacieca Asocio Tutmonda\" (SAT, “World Anational Association”) and the \"Internacia Komunista Esperantista Kolektivo\" (IKEK, an international collective of communist Esperantists), and in a wider sense, the \"Monda Asembleo Socia\" (MAS, “World social assembly”).\nIf scientists, business people and transport workers, who usually understood at least a few foreign languages, lacked multilingual opportunities and felt the need for an international language, it imposed a still greater need for global understanding among workers in the international labour movement, the majority of whom generally knew only their mother tongue. Those who first became aware of the value of Esperanto for themselves were mostly ordinary labourers; lacking formal training in grammar, with great effort they appropriated Esperanto for their own needs and pioneered the language's diffusion.\n\nThe first Esperantist worker groups were founded between 1905 and 1908 in The Hague, Hamburg, Munich, Paris, Stockholm and elsewhere. In the United Kingdom, the British League of Esperanto Socialists was established in 1907, but there were apparently no local groups. In 1911, separate Esperantist workers associations were founded in Czechoslovakia, Germany and the Netherlands, and the national newspapers \"Antaŭen\" (“Forward”, Germany), \"Arbeider-Esperantist\" (“Worker Esperantist,” Netherlands), \"Kulturo\" (“Culture,” Czechoslovakia) and \"Le travailleur Esperantiste\" (“The Esperantist worker,” France) began publication; an international organ for worker Esperantists had already appeared earlier, begun by Marcelo Verema (the pseudonym of Paul Berthelot, 1881–1910). Berthelot published in 1906 the \"Rondiranta folio por la kreado de tutmonda Socia Revuo\", a prospectus for the creation of a global social review. Later, pursuant to a resolution of the 1906 so-called \"Ruĝula Kongreseto\" (“Little conference of Reds”), held in Geneva, the first monthly issue of the \"Internacia Socia Revuo\" was published in January 1907. Editors included Fi-Blan-Go (the pseudonym of Fernand Blangarin, 1886–1914), from 1907 to 1909; Jacob Leendert Bruijn (1880–1954), from 1910 to 1911; and Wijtze Nutters (1872–1926), from 1912 to 1914. Sometimes, due to insufficient funds in the last part of the year, they were only able to publish once every two or three months, but by 1913 the number of subscribers had already surpassed 600, across nearly 20 countries; readers and collaborators were to be found even in tsarist Russia. Between 1912 and 1914 the publishing house of the \"Internacia Socia Revuo\" brought out a series of works by Berthelot, Enrico Ferri, Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis, Peter Kropotkin, Ferdinand Lassalle, Wilhelm Liebknecht, Jack London, Silvio Gesell and Victor Hugo; D. J. Ivanski and Wijtze Nutters did significant translation work. With the outbreak of war in 1914 the \"Internacia Socia Revuo\" ceased publication; in 1920 Nutters tried to revive the magazine, but he only managed to produce six issues.\n\nA worldwide workers organization was established in 1906, the \"Internacia Asocio Paco-Libereco\" (“International peace and freedom association”), later known as \"Liberiga Stelo\" (“Liberating star”); the principal activists were Fi-Blan-Go and R. Louis. The goals were to resist militarism and capitalism and to spread Esperanto among internationalists, socialists and fighters for liberation and self-determination. The association published several pamphlets in opposition to militarism, nationalism and clericalism; these writings were its first Esperanto workers publications. However, the association, which accepted only individuals and local group as members, did not find many followers outside France. The Czech and German workers associations developed two different international organizational projects; both aimed at evolving their groups into an international conference of working Esperantists that would meet simultaneously with the 1914 tenth World Esperanto Congress (\"Universala Kongreso de Esperanto\") in Paris, but this was not implemented. At the earlier World Congresses in Geneva (1906), Cambridge (1907), Antwerp (1911), Kraków (1912) and Bern (1913), the workers took part in special gatherings as the so-called \"Ruĝula Kongreseto\" (“Little conference of Reds”). These enabled awareness and exchange of experiences, but had no have practical results. In 1911, the Universal Esperanto Association tried to set up a special interest group for workers, but did not succeed. Generally, the Esperanto workers movement until 1914 worked mainly to promote the Esperanto language.\n\nCoincident with the 1921 World Esperanto Congress in Prague, the \"Liberiga Stelo\" group, which incljuded 80 participants from 75 countries, held its first world conference and decided to rename itself as the \"Sennacieca Asocio Tutmonda\" (SAT). Membership in SAT is on an individual basis; it does not have local or national sections. A characteristic feature of SAT's organization is that its leadership, the \"Ĝenerala Konsilantaro\" (General Council), elected by the entire membership, does not represent countries or nations but so-called sectors. In order to avoid the influence of nationalism on the leadership, the surface of the earth was divided into arbitrary sectors according to hours of the meridian, and the council had one representative chosen from each sector; that council then chose the governing board of the association, which it aids and advises. After 1933 the board, elected by the entire membership, also included representatives of the Esxperantist workers associations that signed a convention with SAT.\n\nIn 1924-25 SAT survived a small crisis. Several anarchist SAT members, distressed that SAT publications would not permit articles opposed to communism or to the Soviet Union, established their own organization, the Global League of Non-State Esperantists (\"Tutmonda Ligo de Esperantistaj Senŝtatanoj\", TLES) and published a bimonthly periodical \"Libera Laboristo\" (“Free Worker”). Other groups were founded from time to time, including the \"Internacio de Proleta Esperantistaro\" (“Proletarian Esperantists International”, founded in 1932) and Internacio de Socialistaj Esperantistoj “Socialist Esperantists International”, 1933).\n\nWhile SAT was eventually banned or persecuted in the Soviet-bloc countries, except in Yugoslavia, where several congresses were held, associations appeared in these countries that declared themselves as workers associations and that acted as part of the so-called neutral movement through \"Mondpaca Esperantista Unuiĝo\" (“United Esperantists for world peace”). After the collapse of the Soviet Union, however, this group disappeared, as well as many other Eastern European associations that no longer received support from their respective national governments.\n\n\"Based on an article from the Enciklopedio de Esperanto (1933):\"\n"}
{"id": "9867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9867", "title": "European United Left–Nordic Green Left", "text": "European United Left–Nordic Green Left\n\nEuropean United Left–Nordic Green Left (, GUE/NGL) is a left-wing political group in the European Parliament established in 1995.\n\nThe group comprises political parties of socialist and communist orientation.\n\nIn 1995, the enlargement of the European Union led to the creation of the Nordic Green Left group of parties. The Nordic Green Left (NGL) merged with the Confederal Group of the European United Left (GUE) on 6 January 1995, forming the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. The NGL suffix was added to the name of the expanded group on insistence of Swedish and Finnish MEPs. The group initially consisted of MEPs from the Finnish Left Alliance, the Swedish Left Party, the Danish Socialist People's Party, the United Left of Spain (including the Spanish Communist Party), the Synaspismos of Greece, the French Communist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Communist Party of Greece and the Communist Refoundation Party of Italy.\n\nIn 1999, the German Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS) and the Greek Democratic Social Movement (DIKKI) joined as full members while the five MEPs elected from the list of the French Trotskyist alliance LO–LCR joined as associate members.\n\nIn 2002, four MEPs from the French Citizen and Republican Movement also joined the group.\n\nIn 2004, no MEPs were elected from LO–LCR and DIKKI—which was undergoing a dispute with its leader over the party constitution—did not put forward candidates. MEPs from the Portuguese Left Bloc, the borth Irish and Northern Irish Sinn Féin, the Progressive Party of Working People of Cyprus and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia joined the group.\n\nAccording to its 1994 constituent declaration, the group is opposed to the present European Union political structure, but it is committed to integration. That declaration sets out three aims for the construction of another European Union, namely the total change of institutions to make them fully democratic, breaking with neo-liberal monetarist policies, and a policy of co-development and equitable cooperation. The group wants to disband the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and strengthen the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).\n\nThe group is ambiguous between reformism and revolution, leaving it up to each party to decide on the manner they deem best suited to achieve these aims. As such, it has simultaneously positioned itself as insiders within the European institutions, enabling it to influence the decisions made by co-decision; and as outsiders by its willingness to seek another Europe which would abolish the Maastricht Treaty.\n\nThe GUE/NGL is a confederal group who is composed of MEPs from national parties. Those national parties must share common political objectives with the group as specified in the group's constituent declaration. Nevertheless, those national parties and not the group retain control of their MEPs, therefore the group may be divided on certain issues.\n\nMembers of the group meet regularly to prepare for meetings, debate on policies and vote on resolutions. The group also publishes reports on various topics.\n\nMEPs may be full or associate members.\n\nNational parties may be full or associate members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "525329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525329", "title": "Europol", "text": "Europol\n\nThe European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation, better known under the name Europol, formerly the European Police Office and Europol Drugs Unit, is the law enforcement agency of the European Union (EU) formed in 1998 to handle criminal intelligence and combat serious international organised crime and terrorism through cooperation between competent authorities of EU member states. The Agency has no executive powers, and its officials are not entitled to arrest suspects or act without prior approval from competent authorities in the member states. Seated in The Hague, South Holland. It comprised 1,065 staff in 2016.\n\nEuropol has its origins in TREVI, a forum for security cooperation created amongst European Community interior and justice ministers in 1976. At first, TREVI focused on international terrorism, but soon started to cover other areas of cross-border crime within the Community. At the European Summit in Luxembourg on 28–29 June 1991, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl called for the creation of a European police agency similar to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)—thus sowing the seeds of police cooperation across Europe. At the Summit, the European Council agreed to establish \"a Central European Criminal Investigations Office (Europol) by 31 December 1993 the latest.\"\n\nThe idea of the Luxembourg Summit was further elaborated at the European Council in Maastricht on 9–10 December 1991, a meeting to draft the Maastricht Treaty. The European Council agreed to create \"a European police office (Europol) the initial function of which would be to organize exchange of information on narcotic drugs\". The Council likewise instructed TREVI ministers to take measures in setting up the office. On 7 February 1992, Europol was enshrined with more substance in Article K.1, section 9, as the Maastricht Treaty was signed:[...] Member States shall regard the following areas as matters of common interest: [...] police cooperation for the purposes of preventing and combatting terrorism, unlawful drug trafficking and other serious forms of international crime, including if necessary certain aspects of customs cooperation, in connection with the organization of a Union-wide system for exchanging information within a European Police Office (Europol).Europol was first de facto organised provisionally in 1993 as the Europol Drugs Unit (EDU) in Strasbourg at the same site as the Schengen Information System was hosted. The small initial group started operations there in January 1994 under the leadership of Jürgen Storbeck and with a mandate to assist national police forces in criminal investigations. The competition for the permanent site of Europol during the period was between The Hague, Rome and Strasbourg—the European Council decided on 29 October 1993 that Europol should be established in The Hague. A former Catholic boys school built in 1910 at Raamweg 47 was chosen as the precise location. The house was used in World War II by police and intelligence agencies and after the War manned by the Dutch State Intelligence Service until Europol relocated there later in 1994.\n\nThe Europol Convention was signed on 26 July 1995 in Brussels and came into force on 1 October 1998 after being ratified by all the Member States. The European Police Office (Europol) commenced its full activities on 1 July 1999.\n\nEuropol was fully integrated into the European Union with Council Decision 2009/371/JHA of 6 April 2009. It replaced the Europol Convention and reformed Europol as an EU agency (i.e. subject to the general rules and procedures applicable to all EU agencies) on 1 January 2010 due to different aspirations, such as enhanced support to Member States on countering serious and organised crime, budgetary control by the European Parliament, and administrative simplification.\n\nThe Agency's new 32 000 m headquarters building, designed by Frank Wintermans, was opened by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands on 1 July 2011 in the international zone of The Hague next to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) at Eisenhowerlaan 73.\n\nOn 11 January 2013, Director Rob Wainwright and European Commissioner for Home Affairs Cecilia Malmström launched the \"European Cybercrime Centre\" (EC3 or EC³), a unit of Europol tasked with assisting Member States to dismantle and disrupt cybercrime committed by organised groups to generate large criminal profits (e.g. online fraud), causing serious harm to victims (e.g. online child sexual exploitation) or affecting critical infrastructure and systems in the EU. The purpose of the Centre is to coordinate cross-border law enforcement activities against cybercrime and act as a centre of technological expertise, such as tool development and training. Commissioner Malmström stated that the need for a cybercrime centre in Europe was \"to protect the open and free internet\". On 25 January 2016, the European Counter Terrorism Centre (ECTC) was launched as a new strategic platform within Europol to share information among EU states in tracking movements of Europeans into and from Syria as well as to monitor terrorists' finances and militants' Internet usage. \n\nWhen the UK exercised its opt-out from the area of freedom, security and justice in 2014, its request to continue participating in Europol was approved.\n\nThe European Parliament approved Europol's new legal framework, Regulation (EU) 2016/794, on 11 May 2016 after three years of negotiations and thus repealed the former Decisions of 2009. The new framework granted additional powers on counter-terrorism to Europol, but also includes adding training and exchange programmes for staff, creating a solid data protection system, and strengthening the Parliament's control over the Agency. The Regulation took effect on 1 May 2017. Additionally, the full name was amended to European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (Europol).\n\nDenmark was not permitted to participate in the 2016 recast Europol Regulation due to its opt-out from the Area of freedom, security and justice. In a December 2015 referendum it rejected converting its opt-out to a case-by-case opt-in, which would have allowed it to participate in the new regulation and remain a member of Europol. However, Denmark and the European Union agreed on a cooperation deal in December 2016. The agreement was accepted by both the European Parliament and the Danish Parliament on 27 April 2017 and subsequently signed on 29 April 2017—two days before Denmark would have been cut off from the Agency.\n\nThe UK also did not originally participate in the recast 2016 Europol Regulation, but subsequently notified the EU of its desire to participate in December 2016. It's participation was confirmed by a Commission Decision in March 2017. In September 2017, it was reported that the United Kingdom was planning to hold onto Europol access, such as intelligence sharing and co-operation in fighting crime and terrorism, after Brexit though a new treaty. However, the EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier said in November 2017 that the UK \"will no longer be a member of the European Defence Agency or Europol\" after Brexit takes effect.\n\nEuropol started the Stop Child Abuse – Trace an Object campaign and website on 31 May 2017. The site's objective is to display objects in child sexual abuse images to try to find the perpetrators and victims—in hope that distinct details, such as a logo on a bag or a shampoo bottle, can be identified by the public who can then forward the information by an anonymous tip-off or social media. The approach was called crowdsourcing by the investigators. Bellingcat, the investigative search network, reported that several objects had been positively identified following its attempt to support Europol's call.\n\nEuropol is mandated by the European Union (EU) to assist EU Member States in the fight against international crime, such as illicit drugs, trafficking in human beings, intellectual property crime, cybercrime, euro counterfeiting and terrorism, by serving as a centre for law enforcement cooperation, expertise and criminal intelligence. Europol or its officials do not have executive powers—and therefore they do not have powers of arrest and cannot carry out investigations without the approval of national authorities.\n\nEuropol reported it would focus on countering cybercrime, organized crime, and terrorism as well as on building its information technology capacities during the 2016–2020 strategy cycle, . Europol likewise stated that the previous strategy cycle of 2010–2014 laid the foundation for the Agency as the European criminal information hub. The EU Serious and Organised Crime Threat Assessment (SOCTA) of 2017 identified eight priority crime areas: cybercrime; drug production, trafficking and distribution; migrant smuggling; organised property crime; trafficking in human beings; criminal finances and money laundering; document fraud; and online trade in illicit goods and services.\n\nAdditionally, the Agency's tasked activities in detail include analysis and exchange information, such as criminal intelligence; coordination of investigative and operational action as well as joint investigation teams; preparation of threat assessments, strategic and operational analyses and general situation reports; and developing specialist knowledge of crime prevention and forensic methods. Europol is to coordinate and support other EU bodies established within the area of freedom, security and justice, such as the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (CEPOL), the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), and EU crisis management missions. The Agency is also directed to assist the European Council and the European Commission in developing strategic and operational priorities.\n\nIn the financial year 2017, the Agency's budget was approximately 116.4 million euros. As of December 2016, Europol has 1065 staff, of which 32.3 % are female and 67.7 % male, including employment contracts with Europol, liaison officers from Member States and third states and organisations, Seconded National Experts, trainees and contractors. 201 of the staff are liaison officers and around 100 analysts. In addition to the Management Board and Liaison Bureaux, Europol is organised into three different departments under the Executive Director:\nThe Europol Directorate\",\" day-to-day leadership of the Agency, is appointed by the EU Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) for four-year terms. As of 2018, the Agency is headed by Executive Director Catherine De Bolle. The Agency is accountable to and controlled by the Justice and Home Affairs Council. Together with the European Parliament, the Council approves Europol's budget and regulations related to its work. The Council forwards an annual special report to the European Parliament on the work of the Agency—and the Parliament also discharges Europol from its responsibility for managing a set budget. Before 2009, the Agency was an international body and thus the European Parliament lacked effective scrutiny powers over it. From 2009 to 2017, the European Parliament had been the sole organ in parliamentary control of Europol. The Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Group (JPSG) was created at the EU Speakers Conference in Bratislava on 23-25 April 2017 to allow both the European Parliament and national EU parliaments to exert control over Europol.\n\nThe Europol Management Board comprises representatives from all of the Member State and from the European Commission, each having one vote. Decisions of the Board require a supermajority and it meets at least twice per year on Europol's current and future activities as well as on adopting the budget, programming material and general annual reports. The Board forwards its decisions to the Justice and Home Affairs Council for the Council's perusal. The Management Board functions include data protection, internal audit and accountancy.\n\nExternal financial oversight of the Agency is conducted by the European Court of Auditors (ECA); for example, ECA evaluated Europol in 2017 on anti-radicalization programmes. Internal control is carried out by the Internal Audit Service of the European Commission as well as by the Europol Management Board-appointed Internal Audit Function. The European Ombudsman is tasked with investigating complaints against EU institutions and bodies, including Europol, as well as assisting to create a more transparent, effective, accountable and ethical administration. As of 1 May 2017, the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) has been responsible for supervising the Agency's data protection measures.\n\nThe Director of Europol is able to enter into agreements for Europol with other countries and international organizations. As of September 2017, Europol cooperates on an operational basis with Albania, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Denmark, Colombia, Georgia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Norway, Serbia, Switzerland, Ukraine and United States of America and Interpol. Similarly, the Agency has strategic agreements with Brazil, China, Russia, Turkey, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and World Customs Organization (WCO).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43178778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43178778", "title": "History of Woman Suffrage", "text": "History of Woman Suffrage\n\nHistory of Woman Suffrage is a book that was produced by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Matilda Joslyn Gage and Ida Husted Harper. Published in six volumes from 1881 to 1922, it is a history of the women's suffrage movement, primarily in the United States. Its more than 5700 pages are the major source for primary documentation about the women's suffrage movement from its beginnings through the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which enfranchised women in the U.S. in 1920. Written from the viewpoint of the wing of the movement led by Stanton and Anthony, its coverage of rival groups and individuals is limited.\n\nRealizing that the project was unlikely to make a profit, Anthony used money from a bequest in 1885 to buy the rights from the other authors and also the plates from the publisher of the two volumes that had already been issued. As sole owner, she published the books herself and donated many copies to libraries and people of influence. In her will, Anthony bequeathed the plates for all the volumes together with the existing inventory to the National American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nSusan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, leaders of National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA), initiated the project of writing a history of the women's suffrage movement in 1876. The project dominated their lives for much of the next decade, although Anthony in particular also maintained a busy schedule of lecturing and other women's suffrage activities. Originally envisioned as a modest publication that would take only four months to write,\nit evolved into a work of more than 5700 pages written over a period of 41 years. It was completed in 1922, long after the deaths of Stanton and Anthony in 1902 and 1906 respectively.\n\nIn the introduction the authors wrote: \"We hope the contribution we have made may enable some other hand in the future to write a more complete history of 'the most momentous reform that has yet been launched on the world—the first organized protest against the injustice which has brooded over the character and destiny of one-half the human race.'\"\nThe first volume is dedicated to the memory of pioneering women in the movement, with Mary Wollstonecraft, author of \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), prominently listed first.\n\nThe first three volumes, which cover the history of the movement from its beginnings to 1885, were written and edited by Stanton, Anthony and Matilda Joslyn Gage. Volume 1 (1848–1861) appeared in 1881, Volume 2 (1861–1876) in 1882 and Volume 3 (1876–1885) in 1886.\nSome early chapters first appeared in Gage's newspaper, \"The National Citizen and Ballot Box\".\n\nAnthony had for years saved letters, newspapers clippings, and similar materials of historical value to the women's suffrage movement. In 1876 she shipped several trunks and boxes of these materials to the Stanton house in New Jersey and moved into that household herself to begin working on the project with Stanton.\nAnthony hated this type of work. In her letters, she said the project \"makes me feel growly all the time... No warhorse ever panted for the rush of battle more than I for outside work. I love to make history but hate to write it.\"\nThe work inevitably led to disagreements. Stanton's daughter Margaret reported that \"Sometimes these disputes run so high that down go the pens, one sails out of one door and one out of the other, walking in opposite directions around the estate, and just as I have made up my mind that this beautiful friendship of forty years has at last terminated, I see them walking down the hill, arm in arm.\"\n\nWhen Stanton was ill for several months in 1881, her daughter Harriet completed her editorial work for volume 2. Dismayed to learn that Anthony and Stanton had no plan for covering the history of the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), a rival to their NWSA, Harriet Stanton also wrote that 107-page chapter herself with information gathered primarily from the \"Woman's Journal\", a periodical published by the AWSA.\n\nAccording to Ellen Carol DuBois, a historian of the women's movement, \"The initial volumes are very broadly conceived, a combination of Stanton's broad philosophical range, Anthony's organizational energies and Gage's historical sensibilities.\"\nAnthony was the business manager. Stanton wrote much of the text, providing it with her distinct historical interpretation. Gage wrote several historical essays, including a long one that critically assesses Christianity's attitude toward women throughout history.\nGage also provided a significant number of historical documents to the project and was adept at tracking down additional documentation in libraries.\n\nIn addition to chronicling the movement's activities, the initial volumes include reminiscences of movement leaders and analyses of the historical causes of the condition of women. They also contain a variety of primary materials, including letters, newspaper clippings, speeches, court transcripts and decisions, and conference reports. Volume three includes essays by local women's rights activists who provided details about the history of the movement at the state level. At Anthony's insistence, the volumes were indexed by a professional indexer and include many expensive steel engravings of women's rights leaders.\n\nA bequest of $24,000 from Eliza Jackson Eddy to Anthony in 1885 provided financial assistance for the completion of these volumes.\nRecognizing that there was little chance of the project showing a profit, Anthony paid Stanton and Gage for their shares of the rights to the books. She issued Volume 3 in 1886, listing herself as publisher. She also bought the plates of Volumes 1 and 2, which had already been published, from Fowler and Wells, the publisher, and reprinted them in 1887, again listing herself as publisher. Anthony gave away over 1000 copies at her own expense, mailing them to political leaders and libraries in the U.S. and Europe. Publishing the first three volumes cost Anthony about $20,000.\n\nVolume 4, which covers the period from 1883 to 1900, was published by Anthony in 1902, when she was 82 years old. Its editors are listed as Anthony and her younger protégé Ida Husted Harper, but Harper did most of the work.\"\n(Anthony also chose Harper to write her biography.) In an indication of the increased acceptance of the women's suffrage movement, Harvard University sent in an order for Volume 4. Less than twenty years earlier, when Anthony sent the school free copies of the first three volumes, Harvard had declined the gift and returned the books.\n\nPublishing the volumes herself presented a variety of problems for Anthony, including finding space for the inventory. She was forced to limit the large number of books she was storing in the attic of the house she shared with sister because the weight was threatening to collapse the structure.\n\nVolumes 5 and 6 were published in 1922 by the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA), long after Anthony's death in 1906. Written edited by Harper, they are a pair of volumes that cover different aspects of the period from 1900 to 1920, the year that the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was ratified. That amendment, popularly known as the Susan B. Anthony Amendment, prevents the denial of voting rights on the basis of sex.\n\nThe last three volumes include detailed information about the NAWSA, documenting its conventions, officers, committee reports and activities on both a national and state-by-state basis. The NAWSA was formed in 1890 by a merger of the National Woman Suffrage Association and the American Woman Suffrage Association. The former was led by Anthony and Stanton, while the latter was for twenty years its rival under the leadership of Lucy Stone. Anthony was the dominant figure in the merged organization.\nThe last three volumes avoid discussion of conflicts within the women's movement during the period they cover. On the contrary, the narrative has a tone of the inevitability of the movement's victory under the leadership of a few talented leaders.\n\nIn her will, Anthony bequeathed the plates for the \"History of Woman Suffrage\" together with the existing inventory to the National American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nIn 1978 Mari Jo Buhle and Paul Buhle condensed the most important parts of the massive \"History of Woman Suffrage\" into \"The Concise History of Woman Suffrage\" and published it as a single volume of fewer than 500 pages.\n\nThe \"History of Woman Suffrage\" provides only limited coverage to groups and individuals who competed with Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton for leadership of the women's suffrage movement. It only partially portrays the role of Lucy Stone, a pioneering women's rights advocate and a leader of the AWSA, a rival to the NWSA led by Stanton and Anthony. Stanton urged Stone to assist with the history project by writing an account of her own role in the movement, but Stone refused, saying the project should be left to a later generation because none of the leaders of the two rival groups would be able to write an impartial history. Stone accordingly provided Stanton with only minimal information about her activities and asked Stanton not to write a biographical sketch of her for inclusion in the history.\nA 107-page chapter on the history of the AWSA was included, however, compiled by Stanton's daughter Harriot Stanton (later, Blatch) in 1882. The \"History of Woman Suffrage\" provides only minimal coverage of the activities of the militant National Woman's Party, founded in 1913 by Alice Paul and other activists who were formerly members of the NAWSA.\n\nAccording to historian Ellen Carol DuBois, the \"History of Woman Suffrage\" established for several decades the consensus view of the history of the women's movement, a \"frozen account of the past, a history characterized by celebration, inevitability and canonization\".\nHistorian and biographer Lori D. Ginzberg said, \"In that story, Stanton alone articulated the demand for woman suffrage, and Anthony led the charge; there was only one major organization (theirs); and the differences of principle that led to the division brooked no debate.\"\nHistorian Lisa Tetrault said that Stanton and Anthony mapped a single, accessible narrative onto what had in fact been \"a sprawling, multifaceted campaign\".\nTetrault said they placed themselves and their allies at the center of the story and minimized or ignored the roles of Stone and others who did not fit into their narrative.\nScholarly research into women's history began to break out of this framework with the publication of Eleanor Flexner's \"Century of Struggle\" in 1959.\n\nIn \"Woman Suffrage and Women's Rights\", historian Ellen Carol DuBois said \"There is nothing in the annals of American reform quite like \"History of Woman Suffrage\", a prolonged, deliberate effort on the part of activists to ensure their place in the historical record.\"\n\"The Encyclopedia of Women's History in America\" described the \"History of Woman Suffrage\" as \"the fundamental primary source for the women's suffrage campaign\".\nIn \"Elizabeth Cady Stanton: an American Life\", Lori D. Ginzberg similarly described it \nas \"the major, if not the definitive, collection of primary source materials on the nineteenth-century movement.\"\nReferring to the several volumes of the \"History\", Tetrault said, \"More than 125 years after their publication, they remain an indispensable source, having stood for much of that time as the richest repository of published, accessible documentary evidence of nineteenth century suffrage movements.\"\n\nThe \"History of Woman Suffrage\" contains more than 80 images of women activists, including these images of its four main contributors:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15624326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15624326", "title": "History of globalization", "text": "History of globalization\n\nThe historical origins of globalization are the subject of ongoing debate. Though many scholars situate the origins of globalization in the modern era, others regard it as a phenomenon with a long history. Some authors have argued that stretching the beginning of globalization far back in time renders the concept wholly inoperative and useless for political analysis.\n\nPerhaps the extreme proponent of a deep historical origin for globalization was Andre Gunder Frank, an economist associated with dependency theory. Frank argued that a form of globalization has been in existence since the rise of trade links between Sumer and the Indus Valley Civilization in the third millennium BC. Critics of this idea contend that it rests upon an over-broad definition of globalization.\n\nThomas L. Friedman divides the history of globalization into three periods: Globalization 1.0 (1492–1800), Globalization 2.0 (1800–2000) and Globalization 3.0 (2000–present). He states that Globalization 1.0 involved the globalization of countries, Globalization 2.0 involved the globalization of companies and Globalization 3.0 involves the globalization of individuals.\n\nEven as early as the Prehistoric period, the roots of modern globalization could be found. Territorial expansion by our ancestors to all five continents was a critical component in establishing globalization. The development of agriculture furthered globalization by converting the vast majority of the world's population into a settled lifestyle. However, globalization failed to accelerate due to lack of long distance interaction and technology. The contemporary process of globalization likely occurred around the middle of the 19th century as increased capital and labor mobility coupled with decreased transport costs led to a smaller world.\n\nAn early form of globalized economics and culture, known as archaic globalization, existed during the Hellenistic Age, when commercialized urban centers were focused around the axis of Greek culture over a wide range that stretched from India to Spain, with such cities as Alexandria, Athens, and Antioch at its center. Trade was widespread during that period, and it is the first time the idea of a cosmopolitan culture (from Greek \"Cosmopolis\", meaning \"world city\") emerged. Others have perceived an early form of globalization in the trade links between the Roman Empire, the Parthian Empire, and the Han Dynasty. The increasing articulation of commercial links between these powers inspired the development of the Silk Road, which started in western China, reached the boundaries of the Parthian empire, and continued onwards towards Rome.\n\nThe Islamic Golden Age was also an important early stage of globalization, when Jewish and Muslim traders and explorers established a sustained economy across the Old World resulting in a globalization of crops, trade, knowledge and technology. Globally significant crops such as sugar and cotton became widely cultivated across the Muslim world in this period, while the necessity of learning Arabic and completing the Hajj created a cosmopolitan culture.\n\nThe advent of the Mongol Empire, though destabilizing to the commercial centers of the Middle East and China, greatly facilitated travel along the Silk Road. This permitted travelers and missionaries such as Marco Polo to journey successfully (and profitably) from one end of Eurasia to the other. The Pax Mongolica of the thirteenth century had several other notable globalizing effects. It witnessed the creation of the first international postal service, as well as the rapid transmission of epidemic diseases such as bubonic plague across the newly unified regions of Central Asia. These pre-modern phases of global or hemispheric exchange are sometimes known as archaic globalization. Up to the sixteenth century, however, even the largest systems of international exchange were limited to the Old World.\n\nThe next phase is known as proto-globalization. It was characterized by the rise of maritime European empires, in the 16th and 17th centuries, first the Portuguese and Spanish Empires, and later the Dutch and British Empires. In the 17th century, globalization became also a private business phenomenon when chartered companies like British East India Company (founded in 1600), often described as the first multinational corporation, as well as the Dutch East India Company (founded in 1602) were established.\n\nThe Age of Discovery brought a broad change in globalization, being the first period in which Eurasia and Africa engaged in substantial cultural, material and biologic exchange with the New World. It began in the late 15th century, when the two Kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula – Portugal and Castile – sent the first exploratory voyages around the Cape of Good Hope and to the Americas, \"discovered\" in 1492 by Christopher Columbus. Shortly before the turn of the 16th century, Portuguese started establishing trading posts (factories) from Africa to Asia and Brazil, to deal with the trade of local products like slaves, gold, spices and timber, introducing an international business center under a royal monopoly, the House of India.\n\nGlobal integration continued with the European colonization of the Americas initiating the Columbian Exchange, the enormous widespread exchange of plants, animals, foods, human populations (including slaves), communicable diseases, and culture between the Eastern and Western hemispheres. It was one of the most significant global events concerning ecology, agriculture, and culture in history. New crops that had come from the Americas via the European seafarers in the 16th century significantly contributed to the world's population growth.\n\nThe 19th century witnessed the advent of globalization approaching its modern form. Industrialization allowed cheap production of household items using economies of scale, while rapid population growth created sustained demand for commodities. Globalization in this period was decisively shaped by nineteenth-century imperialism. After the First and Second Opium Wars, which opened up China to foreign trade, and the completion of the British conquest of India, the vast populations of these regions became ready consumers of European exports. It was in this period that areas of sub-Saharan Africa and the Pacific islands were incorporated into the world system. Meanwhile, the conquest of new parts of the globe, notably sub-Saharan Africa, by Europeans yielded valuable natural resources such as rubber, diamonds and coal and helped fuel trade and investment between the European imperial powers, their colonies, and the United States.\n\nBetween the globalization in the 19 th and in the 20th there are significant differences. There are two main points on which the differences can be seen. One point is the global trade in this centuries as well as the capital, investment and the economy.\n\n\nThe global trade in the 20th century shows a higher share of trade in merchant production, a growth of the trade in services and the rise of production and trade by multinational firms.\nThe production of merchant goods in the 20th century largely decreased from the levels seen in the 19th century. However, the amount of merchant goods that were produced for the merchandise trade grew. \nThe trade in services also grew more important in the 20th compared to the 19th century. \nThe last point that distinguishes the global trade in the 19th century compared to the global trade in the 20th century, is the extent of multinational cooperation. In the 20th century you can see a \"quantum leap\" in multinational cooperation compared to the 19th century. Before the 20th century began, there were just Portfolio investment, but no trade-related or production-relation Direct investment.\n\nCommercial integration has improved since last century, barriers that inhibit trade are lower and transport costs have decreased. Multinational trade contracts and agreements have been signed, like the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the European Union (EU) has been hugely involved in eliminating tariffs between member states, and the World Trade Organization. From 1890 and up to World War I instability in trade was a problem, but in the post war period there has mostly been economic expansion which leads to stability. Nations have to take care of their own products; they have to make sure that foreign goods do not suffocate their domestic products causing unemployment and maybe social instability. Technological changes have caused lower transporting costs; it takes just a few hours to transport goods between continents to-day, instead of weeks or even months in the nineteenth century.\n\nBy consideration financial crisis one key difference is the monetary regime. In the 19th century it occurred under the fixed exchange rates of the gold standard. But in the 20th century it took place in a regime of managed flexibility. Furthermore, in the 19th century countries had developed effective lenders of last resort, but the same was not true at the periphery and countries there suffered the consequences. A century later there was a domestic safety net in most emerging countries so that banking panics were changed into situations where the debts of an insolvent banking system were taken over by the government. The recovery from banking crisis is another key difference. It has tended to begin earlier in the recent period than in the typical crisis episode a hundred years ago. In the 19th century there were no international rescue packages available to emerging economies. But in the recent period such rescues were a typical component of the financial landscape all over the world.\n\nThe flows information were an important downside in 19th century. Prior to the Transatlantic cable and the Radiotelephone, it used to take very long for information to go from one place to another. So this means that it was very difficult to analyze the information. For instance, it was not so easy to distinguish good and bad credits. Therefore, the information asymmetry played a very important role in international investments. The railway bonds serve as a great example.\nThere was also many contracting problems. It was very difficult for companies working overseas to manage their operations in other parts of the world, so this was clearly a big barrier to investment. \nSeveral macroeconomic factors such as exchange risks and uncertain monetary policies were a big barrier for international investments as well.\nThe accounting standards in the U.S. were relatively underdeveloped in the 19th century. The British investors played a very important role in transferring their accounting practices to the new emerging markets.\n\nThe first phase of \"modern globalization\" began to break down at the beginning of the 20th century, with World War I. The European-dominated network were increasingly confronted with images and stories of ‘others’, thus, then took it upon themselves to take the role of world’s guardians of universal law and morality. Racist and unequal practices became also part of their practices in search of materials and resources that from other regions of the world. The increase of world trade before beginning in 1850 right before World War I broke out in 1914 were incentives for bases of direct colonial rule in the global South. Since other European currencies were becoming quite largely circulated, the need to own resource bases became imperative. The novelist VM Yeates criticised the financial forces of globalization as a factor in creating World War I. Financial forces as a factor for creating World War 1 seem to be partly responsible. An example of this would be France’s colonial rule over most of Africa during the 20th century. Before World War I broke out, there was no specific aims for the wars in Africa from the French, which left Africans in a “lost” state. Military potential of Africa was first to be emphasized unlike its economic potential…at least at first. France’s interest in the military potential of French Africa took a while to be accepted. Africans in the French army were treated with feelings of inferiority from the French. As for the economic incentive for colonial rule came in 1917 when France’s was faced with a crisis of food supply. This coming after the outbreak of the war which had left France without the ability to support itself agriculturally since France had a shortage of fertilizers and machinery in 1917.\n\nGlobalization, since World War II, is partly the result of planning by politicians to break down borders hampering trade. Their work led to the Bretton Woods conference, an agreement by the world's leading politicians to lay down the framework for international commerce and finance, and the founding of several international institutions intended to oversee the processes of globalization. Globalization was also driven by the global expansion of multinational corporations based in the United States and Europe, and worldwide exchange of new developments in science, technology and products, with most significant inventions of this time having their origins in the Western world according to Encyclopædia Britannica. Worldwide export of western culture went through the new mass media: film, radio and television and recorded music. Development and growth of international transport and telecommunication played a decisive role in modern globalization.\n\nThese institutions include the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank), and the International Monetary Fund. Globalization has been facilitated by advances in technology which have reduced the costs of trade, and trade negotiation rounds, originally under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which led to a series of agreements to remove restrictions on free trade.\n\nSince World War II, barriers to international trade have been considerably lowered through international agreements – GATT. Particular initiatives carried out as a result of GATT and the World Trade Organization (WTO), for which GATT is the foundation, have included:\n\nCultural globalization, driven by communication technology and the worldwide marketing of Western cultural industries, was understood at first as a process of homogenization, as the global domination of American culture at the expense of traditional diversity. However, a contrasting trend soon became evident in the emergence of movements protesting against globalization and giving new momentum to the defense of local uniqueness, individuality, and identity.\n\nThe Uruguay Round (1986 to 1994) led to a treaty to create the WTO to mediate trade disputes and set up a uniform platform of trading. Other bilateral and multilateral trade agreements, including sections of Europe's Maastricht Treaty and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) have also been signed in pursuit of the goal of reducing tariffs and barriers to trade.\n\nWorld exports rose from 8.5% in 1970, to 16.2% of total gross world product in 2001.\n\nIn the 1990s, the growth of low cost communication networks allowed work done using a computer to be moved to low wage locations for many job types. This included accounting, software development, and engineering design.\n\nIn late 2000s, much of the industrialized world entered into a deep recession. Some analysts say the world is going through a period of deglobalization after years of increasing economic integration. China has recently become the world's largest exporter surpassing Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46559065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46559065", "title": "Human rights in Tokelau", "text": "Human rights in Tokelau\n\nAs prescribed in the Constitution of Tokelau, individual human rights are those found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and reflected in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. When exercising these rights, there must be proper recognition of the rights of others and to the community as a whole. If an individual believes their rights have been breached they may go to the Council for the Ongoing Government who may make any appropriate order to protect that individual’s rights. There have been no such complaints to date.\n\nTokelau currently recognises itself as a part of New Zealand under the Tokelau Act 1948. Because of this, Tokelau has a limited international legal personality. In regards to international treaties, ratification is done by the New Zealand Government who extends their authority to include Tokelau by an express statement once the Government of Tokelau has been consulted. If Tokelau were to become a state in free association with New Zealand, then they would have the capacity to ratify treaties under their own name. There have been two referenda attempts in Tokelau to move to self-government. These occurred in 2006 and in 2007, however there was not enough required support for Tokelau to change its status.\n\nTreaties that apply to Tokelau include the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), its two optional protocols, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the United Nations Convention Against Torture, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (ICERD).\n\nAn example of a treaty that New Zealand has ratified but does not apply to Tokelau is the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).\n\nTokelau also participates in some regional organisations with New Zealand's support. These include the Secretariat of the Pacific Community, the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency, the Pacific Regional Environment Programme, the Council of the University of the South Pacific and the UN Educational and Scientific Organisation.\n\nHuman rights were not mentioned in Tokelauan legislation until the Human Rights Rules 2004. These rules were very basic and are now what is incorporated in the Constitution of Tokelau 2007. Tokelau accepts the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe right to an education is found in Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 13 of ICESCR. The Constitution of Tokelau gives no indication to the meaning of each individual right, therefore ICESCR can be used to define what the right to education actually means. ICESCR goes into some detail of what the right to education entails. It states all primary education should be free and compulsory. Secondary education should be generally available and accessible to all, as should any higher education. It then goes on to say there needs to be development in school systems that are free from discrimination, with set minimum standards and a high level of quality.\n\nTokelau conforms with its human rights obligations in that up to the age of 16 years, education is free, and under s63 of the Crimes, Procedure and Evidence Rules 2003, school is compulsory until the age of 16. There are three schools across the three atolls, all of whom teach from early childhood up to year 11. Year 12 and 13 students are offered foundation and transition courses. There is no university in Tokelau, so if students wish to progress to further education, they need to either study via correspondence or relocate to another country such as Samoa.\n\nNew Zealand conducted an educational review of Tokelau in February 2014, and found \"the overall quality of teaching does not enable all Tokelauan students to achieve the education standards outlined in the Tokelau National Curriculum Policy Framework\". The same report went on to find that none of the schools were well resourced in facilities and teaching materials.\n\nIn the Annex to the National Report of the Universal Periodic Review, it was acknowledged in the section on Tokelau that it is highly challenging to recruit and retain qualified and skilled teachers in the education sector in Tokelau. This is because Tokelau is so isolated from other countries.\n\nThe right to an adequate standard of living under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is there for the health and well being of individuals and their families. This includes having access to medical care, food, clothing and housing.\n\nThere are three hospitals in Tokelau, one is located on each of the three atolls. They are the primary healthcare facilities for Tokelauan residents. Each hospital has 12 beds, none of which have the capacity for intensive care patients. In the case of serious injuries patients have to be evacuated to Samoa and in some cases to New Zealand.\nTokelau ensures they are adhering to Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in regards to access to healthcare by making all dental and medical services free to the citizens of Tokelau. This includes the prescription of essential medicines. Where a person is required to go to Samoa for healthcare the Tokelauan Government provides a subsidy.\n\nNew Zealand’s National Report for the Universal Periodic Review provides a section on Tokelau which states that statistical information in regards to the health levels of Tokelauan’s is unavailable making it difficult to understand the status of health issues such as obesity and disease rates. The report also outlined Tokelau’s biggest challenge in providing health care is attracting medically trained staff to come and work in Tokelau. This challenge was largely attributed to being so isolated from other countries. The World Health Organisation has recognised that the flow on effects from having recruitment issues has led to health workers having to run the hospital and become accountable for a vast amount of high level duties.\n\nThe right to water is recognised under ICESCR which is recognised in the Constitution of Tokelau and also CEDAW, to which Tokelau is a party.\n\nTokelau has very scarce water resources and because there are no fresh water surfaces on any of the atolls, it is solely dependent on rainwater as its source of fresh water. In recent years, climate change has resulted in much lower rain levels with drought periods lasting for much longer. This has made Tokelau along with many other islands in the Pacific struggle to conserve and store water for individual use. In the past, countries such as New Zealand and the United States have had to send emergency water supplies to Tokelau because it was on the verge of running out entirely. Sanitation facilities are also said to be poorly designed and wasting precious supplies of fresh water through the flushing system.\n\nDue to Tokelau being a New Zealand territory and not an independent, it was unable to take advantage of the Pacific Adaption to Climate Change (PACC) programme when it was introduced in 2009. In 2011 that Australian Government supplied additional funding allowing for what was known as the PACC+ programme that Tokelau was allowed to be a part of. Since 2011, the Tokelau PACC+ project has been progressively working towards more sustainable solutions in regards to rainwater harvesting and storage to ensure that everyone in Tokelau can continue to have access to what is consider a basic right.\n\nThe Crimes, Procedure and Evidence Rules (CPER) 2003 sets out Tokelau's criminal code. Part II of the CPER and onwards sets out numerous sections all in relation to trial circumstances and processes for both criminal and civil trials. According to the Annex of the National Report, the rules set out are all consistent with and set out to satisfy Tokelau's fair trial obligations.\n\n"}
{"id": "27657031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27657031", "title": "Income-contingent repayment", "text": "Income-contingent repayment\n\nIncome-Contingent Repayment is an arrangement for the repayment of a loan where the regular (e.g., monthly) amount to be paid by the borrower depends on his or her income. This type of repayment arrangement is mostly used for student loans where the ability of the new graduate borrower to repay is usually limited by his or her income.\n\nIncome-Contingent Repayment is available for Student loans in the United Kingdom since 1998. The Student Loans Company (SLC) that manages student loans for students living in the UK makes sure that the repayment of loans only begins after the student has left higher education and is earning over a certain threshold of:\n\n\nThese loans are collected via the PAYE tax system by employers deducting from the salary from their employees and pass the money onto HMRC along with other contributions (Income Tax and National Insurance. HMRC Then provides the full financial year's worth of deductions to student loans company beginning from May after the finance year and may provide updates until December. Customers receive their statements 30 days after their accounts are updated. The loans are also repaid through Tax Returns by Self Assessment, which is paid in the January after the Financial year is ended and given to SLC in April. Customers who reside or work overseas are required to directly contact SLC to arrange repayment of their loans directly to Student Loans with another means of income assessment.\nThis is different from the previous \"mortgage style\" loans (These have now been sold from SLC to other loan companies that include Erudio Student Loans, Theisis Servicing and Honours Student Loans) that set a fixed monthly payment irrespective of the graduate's income.\n\nThere are a number of loan repayment options available to U.S. federal student loan borrowers, including some that are based on the borrower’s income.\n\nSee Income-Based Repayment for detailed information.\n"}
{"id": "19523929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19523929", "title": "International Stand Up to Bullying Day", "text": "International Stand Up to Bullying Day\n\nInternational STAND UP to Bullying Day is a special semi-annual event in which participants sign and wear a pink “pledge shirt” to take a visible, public stance against bullying. The event takes place in schools, workplaces, and organizations in 25 countries around the globe on the third Friday of November to coincide with Anti-bullying week, and then again on the last Friday of February.\n\nThe first \"International STAND UP to Bullying Day\" took place in February 2008. 236 schools, workplaces and organizations representing more than 125,000 students and staff registered to take a STAND against Bullying by signing and wearing a special pink pledge shirt.\n\nEach participating school, workplace or organization hosts their own STAND with aid being provided by event coordinators. Bully Help Initiatives], a Canadian based organization committed to developing effective support structures for victims of bullying through a variety of initiatives.\n\nParticipation in the STAND constitutes the signing and wearing of a special pink \"pledge shirt\". Signing and wearing this shirt identifies a peer based support structure to victims and their bullies in a non-confrontational way. The color of the shirts is based on a campaign started by Travis Price and David Shepherd, two students who took a stand for a fellow student who was bullied for wearing a pink shirt to school.\n\n"}
{"id": "57041257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57041257", "title": "Jeromy Farkas", "text": "Jeromy Farkas\n\nJeromy Farkas is a Canadian politician, who was elected to Calgary City Council in the 2017 municipal election. He represents Ward 11 on council, comprising the neighbourhoods of Acadia, Bayview, Bel-Aire, Braeside, Britannia, Cedarbrae, CFB Currie, CFB Lincoln Park PMQ, Chinook Park, Eagle Ridge, Elbow Park (part), Elboya, Haysboro, Kelvin Grove, Kingsland, Lakeview, Lincoln Park, Mayfair, Meadowlark Park, Mission, North Glenmore Park, Oakridge, Palliser, Parkhill/Stanley Park, Pump Hill, Rideau Park, Roxboro, Rutland Park, Southwood, Willow Park and Windsor Park.\n\nFarkas graduated from Calgary's Bishop Carroll High School and attended classes at the University of Calgary and received his bachelor of arts in political science and government.\n\nPrior to declaring his candidacy for Ward 11, Farkas worked as a senior fellow specializing in municipal governance at the Manning Foundation for Democratic Education from February 2013 to January 2016. He was the project lead for the Council Tracker project, and published a report in September 2013 called \"Growing the Democratic Toolbox: City Council Vote Tracking\" where he studied City of Calgary Council meetings from fall 2010 to April 2013, specifically examining 73 votes during that period to understand how council worked, look at voting blocs, time spent in-camera (deliberations that are not open to the public), among other issues. He continued the project and established the website Counciltracker.com to track Calgary council activities, which he maintained until he left the Manning Foundation to run for Ward 11.\n\nFarkas is a former \"Calgary Herald\" columnist writing about local issues, particularly city council, and contributed to \"Canadian Cycling\" magazine from 2015 to 2016.\n\nFormerly president of the Wildrose Party's constituency association in Calgary-Elbow, Farkas identifies himself as a fiscal conservative and social liberal. He describes his political views as being motivated by an attitude that \"you should have the biggest say in how you live your life... chasing, again, the best solutions rather than the ones based in ideology,\" and has been active in issues such as wildlife conservation and human rights activism. He is out as bisexual, becoming Calgary's first openly LGBTQ male city councillor, and played a key role in pushing the Wildrose Party to adopt a more progressive position on LGBTQ issues.\n\nHis first significant act as a city councillor was to refuse several perks of the office, including councillors' pension plan and the transition allowance for new councillors. He also vowed to oppose the city's new southwest bus rapid transit line.\n\nIn December 2017, his proposal for the city to provide additional compensation to residents of the Midfield trailer park, which is being closed due to poor site design that makes it impossible for the city to repair the neighbourhood's failing water and sewer lines without tearing down the homes, failed to advance after Farkas was unable to find a councillor willing to second the motion.\n\nIn early 2018, he faced some criticism for being the sole councillor to vote against a motion directing city staff to draft a new parental leave policy for city councillors, on the grounds that taking time away from city council business would be a betrayal of the constituents.\n"}
{"id": "28862882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28862882", "title": "Jihad satire", "text": "Jihad satire\n\nA Jihad satire is a political satire that satirizes the idea of violent jihad.\n\nThe musical comedy \"Jihad! The Musical\" and the film \"Four Lions\" are works of art that satirise jihadis. \"The Australian\" describes \"Four Lions\" as \"a satire on Islamic jihadism and its murderous ambitions.\" The satirical \"Jihad! The Musical\" featured a hero who cheerfully sang, \"I wanna be like Osama, I wanna bomb a path to fame across the Earth. People may abhor me but by God, they won't ignore me, When the CIA determines what I'm worth.\"\n\nComedian Jeff Dunham's puppet character \"Achmed the dead terrorist\" is a popular example of jihad satire in the United States. Achmed is a puppet who shouts, \"Silence, I kill you!\" whenever the audience laughs at something that offends his sensibilities. Dunham explains that he portrays Achmed as incompetent so that when the audience realise that the character is \"a bumbling idiot with problems in life\", they appreciate that he is human.\n\nMental health professionals argue that humor and satire can alleviate the mental health impact of terror attacks, helping to heal the survivors of terror attacks and rescue personnel suffering the consequences of exposure to the horrors of deliberate mass murder.\n\nArab-American comedian Ray Hanania has written, \"If there were a bit of humor in the Middle East, I think that there might not be so much fanaticism. Humor can be a counter to the environment that breeds fanaticism and terrorism.\"\n\nAccording to \"Psychology Today\", humor is the most powerful tool to prevent individuals from becoming Islamic suicide bombers, however, to be effective, the humor has to come from within the Muslim community and it has to be \"aimed at the culture's sacred values.\" According to psychologist Molly Castelloe Fong, \"Humor has the potential to gradually, over time, alter what it means to be a heroic martyr in the mind of extremist groups.\"\n\nAgence France-Presse has reported that \"Satire and ridicule can help win the fight against Al-Qaeda by stripping it of its glamour and mystique.\"\n\nThe Demos group, a think tank in the United Kingdom, is among the academic institutions that have suggested that satire can be an effective tool in undermining support for violent jihad. According to some terrorism experts, successful recruitment for violent jihad depends upon convincing potential recruits that jihadis are \"pious warriors of God\". They postulate that by \"highlighting their incompetence, their moral failings, and their embarrassing antics\", it may be possible to \"undermine\" support for violent jihadi organizations including Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Researchers for Demos recommend satire as a means of undermining the popularity of violent jihad, noting that \"satire has long been recognised as a powerful tool to undermine the popularity of social movements: both the Ku Klux Klan and the British Fascist party in the 1930s were seriously harmed by sustained satire.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12783186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12783186", "title": "Jung Borochovistim", "text": "Jung Borochovistim\n\nJung Borochovistim, also known as Jungbor, was a Jewish youth movement named after the Leftist Marxist Zionist ideologue, Ber Borochov. The youth movement was affiliated with Left Poale Zion.\n\n"}
{"id": "385897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385897", "title": "Kevin MacDonald (evolutionary psychologist)", "text": "Kevin MacDonald (evolutionary psychologist)\n\nKevin B. MacDonald (born January 24, 1944) is an American psychologist. He is a retired professor of psychology at California State University, Long Beach (CSULB), best known for writings that characterize Jewish behavior as a \"group evolutionary strategy\". His work has received support from anti-Semitic and white supremacist groups. According to \"Undark Magazine\", MacDonald's work \"has been dismissed for decades as anti-Semitic pseudoscience\".\n\nMacDonald is the editor of the \"Occidental Observer\", which he says covers \"white identity, white interests, and the culture of the West\". He is described by the Anti-Defamation League as having \"become a primary voice for anti-Semitism from far-right intellectuals\" and by the Southern Poverty Law Center as \"the neo-Nazi movement's favorite academic\". He has been described as part of the alt-right movement.\nIn 2008 the California State University, Long Beach academic senate voted to disassociate itself from MacDonald's work.\n\nMacDonald claims a suite of traits he attributes to Jews, including higher-than-average verbal intelligence and ethnocentricism, have culturally evolved to enhance their ability to outcompete non-Jews for resources. MacDonald believes Jews are motivated by a hatred and \"hostility toward American Christian culture\" and have used this purported advantage to advance Jewish group interests and end potential antisemitism by either deliberately or inadvertently undermining the power of the European-derived Christian majorities in the Western world.\n\nMacDonald was born in Oshkosh, Wisconsin to a Roman Catholic family. His father was a policeman and his mother was a secretary. He attended Catholic parochial schools and played basketball in high school. He entered the University of Wisconsin–Madison and became involved in the anti-war movement, which brought him into contact with Jewish student activists.\n\nMacDonald became a philosophy major and abandoned the anti-war movement. Between 1970 and 1974 he worked towards becoming a jazz pianist, spending two years in Jamaica, where he taught high school. By the late 1970s he had left that career.\n\nMacDonald is the author of seven books on evolutionary theory and child development and is the author or editor of over 30 academic articles in refereed journals. He received his B.A. from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1966, and M.S. in biology from the University of Connecticut in 1976. In 1981 he earned a PhD in biobehavioral sciences from the University of Connecticut, where his adviser was Benson E. Ginsburg, a founder and leader of modern behavior genetics. His thesis was on the behavioral development of wolves and resulted in two publications:\n\nMacDonald completed a post-doctoral fellowship with Ross Parke in the psychology department of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1983. MacDonald and Parke's work there resulted in three publications:\n\nMacDonald joined the Department of Psychology at California State University, Long Beach (CSU-LB) in 1985, and became a full professor in 1995. He announced his retirement at the end of 2014.\n\nHe served as Secretary-Archivist of the Human Behavior and Evolution Society and was elected as a member of the executive board from 1995 to 2001. He was an editor of \"Population and Environment\" and is an associate editor of the journal \"Sexuality & Culture\". He serves on the Advisory Board of \"The Occidental Quarterly\", a journal that has been described by Max Blumenthal on the website of liberal magazine \"The American Prospect\" as \"the premier voice of the white-nationalist movement\". He became the blog's editor and makes occasional contributions to VDARE.com, a website focused on opposition to immigration to the United States and classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nMacDonald wrote a trilogy of books analyzing Judaism and secular Jewish culture from the perspective of evolutionary psychology: \"A People That Shall Dwell Alone\" (1994), \"Separation and Its Discontents\" (1998), and \"The Culture of Critique\" (1998). He proposes that Judaism is a group evolutionary strategy to enhance the ability of Jews to outcompete non-Jews for resources. Using the term \"Jewish ethnocentrism\", he argues that Judaism fosters in Jews a series of marked genetic traits, including above-average verbal intelligence and a strong tendency toward collectivist behavior, as manifested in a series of influential intellectual movements. MacDonald says that not all Jews in all circumstances display the traits he identifies.\n\nMacDonald says that the Jewish community has been the single most important and powerful group in favor of unrestricted immigration to the United States in pursuit of their own perceived collective interests.\n\nMacDonald's has claimed that the period preceding the 1965 Immigration Act, when country-of-origin based quotas existed, mostly favoring immigration from Europe. According to MacDonald, while most of the ethnic communities in that period were somewhat active in trying to effect the increase of immigration quotas from their own countries of origin, only Jewish community activists were requesting (and ultimately obtained in 1965) the dismantling of country-of-origin quotas and an increase in immigration across the board. MacDonald says that Jews opposed immigration quotas because a diverse America was safer for Jews.\n\nMacDonald published a series of three articles in \"The Occidental Quarterly\" on the alleged similarities between neoconservatism and other movements that he claims are Jewish-dominated. He argues that \"Taken as a whole, neoconservatism is an excellent illustration of the key traits behind the success of Jewish activism: ethnocentrism, intelligence and wealth, psychological intensity, and aggressiveness.\" His conclusions are that neoconservatism fits into a general pattern of 20th-century Jewish intellectual and political activism. MacDonald argues that non-Jewish neoconservatives are examples of an ability to recruit prominent non-Jews while preserving a Jewish core and commitment to Jewish interests.\n\nMacDonald has also written about other ethnic groups living in diaspora, such as overseas Chinese people and Assyrians.\n\nAt the time of its release, \"A People That Shall Dwell Alone\" received mixed reviews from scholars, although his subsequent books were less positively received.\n\nJohn Tooby, the founder of MacDonald's field of evolutionary psychology, criticized MacDonald in an article for \"Salon\" in 2000. He wrote, \"MacDonald's ideas—not just on Jews—violate fundamental principles of the field.\" Tooby posits that MacDonald is not an evolutionary psychologist, and advocates models incorporating group-selection theory, a view of natural selection whose importance is disputed.\n\nMacDonald has been accused by some academics in \"Policing the National Body: Sex, Race, and Criminalization\" of employing racial \"techniques of scapegoating [that] may have evolved in complexity from classical Nazi fascism, but the similarities [to which] are far from remote.\"\n\nSteven Pinker, while acknowledging that he had \"not plowed through MacDonald's trilogy and therefore run the complementary risks of being unfair to his arguments, and of not refuting them resoundingly enough to distance them from my own views on evolutionary psychology\", states that MacDonald's theses are unable to pass the threshold of attention-worthiness or peer-approval, and contain a \"consistently invidious portrayal of Jews, couched in value-laden, disparaging language\".\n\nReviewing MacDonald's \"Separation and Its Discontents\" in 2000, Zev Garber writes that MacDonald works from the assumption that the dual Torah is the blueprint of the eventual Jewish dominion over the world, and that he sees contemporary antisemitism, the Holocaust, and attacks against Israel as \"provoked by Jews themselves.\" Garber concludes that MacDonald's \"rambling who-is-who-isn't roundup of Jews responsible for the 'Jewish Problem' borders on the irrational and is conducive to misrepresentation.\"\n\nIn 2001, David Lieberman, a Holocaust researcher at Brandeis University, wrote \"Scholarship as an Exercise in Rhetorical Strategy: A Case Study of Kevin MacDonald's Research Techniques\", a paper in which he notes that one of MacDonald's sources, Jaff Schatz, objected to how MacDonald used his writings to further his premise that Jewish self-identity validates anti-Semitic sentiments and actions. \"At issue, however, is not the quality of Schatz's research, but MacDonald's use of it, a discussion that relies less on topical expertise than on a willingness to conduct close comparative readings\", Lieberman wrote. Lieberman accused MacDonald of dishonestly using lines from the work of Holocaust denier David Irving. Citing Irving's \"Uprising\", published in 1981 for the 25th anniversary of Hungary's failed anti-Communist revolution in 1956, MacDonald asserted in the \"Culture of Critique\":\n\nThe domination of the Hungarian communist Jewish bureaucracy thus appears to have had overtones of sexual and reproductive domination of gentiles in which Jewish males were able to have disproportionate sexual access to gentile females.\n\nLieberman, who noted that MacDonald is not a historian, debunked those assertions, concluding, \"(T)he passage offers not a shred of evidence that, as MacDonald would have it, 'Jewish males enjoyed disproportionate sexual access to gentile females.'\"\n\nWhile most academics have not engaged MacDonald on his views about Judaism, Nathan Cofnas of the University of Oxford published a negative critique of MacDonald in the journal \"Human Nature\" in 2018. Cofnas argued \"contra\" Pinker that scholars needed to critically engage with MacDonald's work, in part because it had proved \"enormously\" influential among anti-Semites. Cofnas's own conclusion was that MacDonald's work relied upon \"misrepresented sources and cherry-picked facts\" and that the \"evidence actually favors a simpler explanation of Jewish overrepresentation in intellectual movements involving Jewish high intelligence and geographic distribution.\"\n\nMacDonald has written that his critics have not judged his work on its merits but instead believe \"the subject is taboo and discussing it should be forbidden.\"\n\nIn 2008 the CSULB academic senate issued the following statement: \n\nWhile the academic senate defends Dr. Kevin MacDonald's academic freedom and freedom of speech, as it does for all faculty, it firmly and unequivocally disassociates itself from the anti-Semitic and white ethnocentric views he has expressed.\n\nThe senate considered but rejected the use of the word \"condemns\" in the statement.\n\nMark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) claims of MacDonald that \"he put the anti-Semitism under the guise of scholarly work... Kevin MacDonald's work is nothing but gussied-up anti-Semitism. At base it says that Jews are out to get us through their agenda... His work is bandied about by just about every neo-Nazi group in America.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League (ADL) includes MacDonald in its list of American extremists, \"Extremism in America\", and wrote a report on MacDonald's views and ties. According to the ADL, his views on Jews mimic those of anti-Semites from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nMacDonald claims the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) \"has initiated a campaign against me\". He holds, among other complaints, that SPLC publicity, such as \"The Thirteen Scariest People in America\" and \"Promoting Hate—California Professor is Font of Anti-Semitism\", contain misrepresentations and distortions of his work. MacDonald has disputed the report that he has called for Jewish quotas and Jewish taxation, saying this was a hypothetical scenario taken out of context.\n\nMacDonald has been highly critical of the SPLC assessment of him, including the November 2006 visit to CSULB's campus by Heidi Beirich. Shortly after the visit, the university issued a statement supporting MacDonald's academic freedom. Beirich acknowledged that the university supported MacDonald \"unequivocally.\"\n\nA university spokeswoman stated, \"The university will support MacDonald's academic freedom and freedom of speech.\" MacDonald was initially pressured to post a disclaimer on his website: \"nothing on this website should be interpreted to suggest that I condone white racial superiority, genocide, Nazism, or Holocaust denial. I advocate none of these and strongly dissociate myself and my work from groups that do. Nor should my opinions be used to support discrimination against Jews or any other group.\" He has since removed that disclaimer. In addition, the Psychology Department on December 4, and 6th, issued three statements: a \"Statement on Academic Freedom and Responsibility in Research,\" a \"Statement on Diversity,\" and a \"Statement on Misuse of Psychologists' Work.\"\n\nA spokeswoman for CSULB, said that at least two classes a year taught by all professors—including MacDonald—have student evaluations, and that some of the questions on those evaluations are open-ended, allowing students to raise any issue. \"Nothing has come through\" to suggest bias in class, she said. \"We don't see it.\" Jonathan Knight, who handles academic freedom issues for the American Association of University Professors said if there are no indications that MacDonald shares his views in class, \"I don't see a basis for an investigation\" into what goes on in his courses.\n\nIn late 2007 California State University–Long Beach's Department of Psychology began the process of formally disassociating itself from MacDonald's views on Judaism, which in some cases are \"used by publications considered to publicize neo-Nazi and white supremacist ideology.\" The department's move followed a discussion of MacDonald's December forum presentation at meeting of the department's advisory committee that concerned his ethics and methodologies.\n\nLate in 2006, a report issued by the Southern Poverty Law Center after an on-campus investigation labeled his work antisemitic and neo-Nazi propaganda, and described increasing concern about Macdonald's views by CSULB faculty members (see above). In an e-mail sent to the college's \"Daily Forty-Niner\" newspaper, MacDonald noted that he had already pledged not to teach about race differences in intelligence as a requirement for teaching his psychology class, and expressed that he was \"not happy\" about the disassociation. The newspaper reported that in the e-mail, MacDonald confirmed that his books contained what the paper described as \"his claims that the Jewish race was having a negative effect on Western civilization.\"\n\nThe Department of Psychology voted to release an April 23, 2008 statement saying, \"We respect and defend his right to express his views, but we affirm that they are his alone and are in no way endorsed by the Department\". The department expressed particular concern that \"Dr. MacDonald's research on Jewish culture does not adhere to the Department's explicitly stated values\". On May 5 the school's academic senate issued a joint statement disassociating the school from MacDonald's anti-Semitic views, including specific statements from the Psychology department, the History department, the Anthropology department, the Jewish Studies program, and the Linguistics department. The statement concludes that \"While the Academic Senate defends Dr. Kevin MacDonald's academic freedom and freedom of speech, as it does for all faculty, it firmly and unequivocally disassociates itself from the anti-Semitic and white ethnocentric views he has expressed.\"\n\nA 2006 article in the American left-wing periodical \"The Nation\" reported that MacDonald's 2004 \"Understanding Jewish Influence: A Study in Ethnic Activism\" \"has turned MacDonald into a celebrity within white nationalist and neo-Nazi circles.\" Writing in the \"Journal of Church and State\", Professor George Michael noted that MacDonald's work \"has been well received by those in the racialist right, as it amounts to a theoretically sophisticated justification for anti-Semitism\", and that on the far right MacDonald \"has attained a near reverential status and is generally considered beyond reproach\".\n\nA colleague of MacDonald, Martin Fiebert in 2007 criticized MacDonald for \"bigotry and cultural insensitivity\" and called it \"troubling\" that MacDonald's work was being cited by white supremacist and neo-Nazi organizations. Heidi Beirich of the SPLC noted MacDonald's association with Virginia Abernethy, a self-described \"white separatist\" and member of the white nationalist organization Council of Conservative Citizens which, according to Beirich, has described blacks as \"a retrograde species of humanity.\"\n\nIn October 2004, MacDonald accepted the Jack London Literary Prize of $10,000 from \"The Occidental Quarterly\", which the SPLC claims is a white supremacist organization. He is now also a member of the publication's Editorial Advisory Board, as well as the main contributor to its website and editor of its blog. In his acceptance speech, he stated, \"The best way to preserve ethnic interests is to defend an ethnostate—a nation that is explicitly intended to preserve the ethnic interests of its citizens.\" According to MacDonald, one of the functions of such a state would be to exclude non-European immigrants who are attracted to the state by its wealth and prosperity. At the conclusion of his speech, he remarked:\n\nThe alternative faced by Europeans throughout the Western world is to place themselves in a position of enormous vulnerability in which their destinies will be determined by other peoples, many of whom hold deep historically conditioned hatreds toward them. Europeans' promotion of their own displacement is the ultimate foolishness—an historical mistake of catastrophic proportions.\n\nMacDonald testified in the libel suit against Deborah Lipstadt brought by the Holocaust denier David Irving, the suppression of whose work MacDonald had cited in \"Separation and Its Discontents\" as \"an example of Jewish tactics for combating anti-Semitism.\" MacDonald later wrote that he felt Lipstadt had \"exaggerated the extent to which Irving denied the Holocaust, since there are many places in his writings where Irving describes Nazis engaged in organized killing of Jews\". MacDonald was quoted as saying he was an \"agnostic\" in regards to the Holocaust, though he denied the accuracy of the quote. MacDonald's testimony caused a backlash among his colleagues. Deborah Lipstadt's lawyer Richard Rampton thought MacDonald's testimony on behalf of Irving was so ridiculous that he did not bother to cross examine him. Mr Justice Gray said in his judgment that the testimony provided by MacDonald was insufficient to establish that he was the victim of a conspiracy from the \"traditional enemies of free speech\" (i.e. Jews) to discredit Irving. \nMax Blumenthal has written that MacDonald has an extensive following among white nationalists and neo-Nazis, which Blumenthal claims is inherently linked with MacDonald's political leanings (i.e. \"Republicanizing the Race Card\"). Former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke praised MacDonald's work on his website.\n\nWhen MacDonald won his award from \"The Occidental Quarterly\", the ceremony was attended by David Duke; Don Black, the founder of white supremacist site \"Stormfront\"; Jamie Kelso, a senior moderator at Stormfront; and the head of the neo-Nazi National Vanguard, Kevin Alfred Strom. In 2005, Kelso told \"The Occidental Report\" that he was meeting up with MacDonald to conduct business. MacDonald is featured in the Stormfront member Brian Jost's anti-immigration film, \"The Line in the Sand\", where he \"blam[ed] Jews for destroying America by supporting immigration from developing countries.\"\n\nHeidi Beirich told the \"Los Angeles Times\" in an April 2007 interview that \"Not since Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" have anti-Semites had such a comprehensive reference guide to what's 'wrong with Jews.' His work is widely advertised and touted on white supremacist websites and sold by neo-Nazi outfits like National Vanguard Books, which considers them 'the most important books of the last 100 years.'\"\n\nIn 2010, MacDonald accepted a position as one of the eight members of the board of directors of the American Freedom Party (previously the American Third Position), which declares America a white Christian nation and advocates for limiting \"non-white\" immigration into the United States. In January 2010, he began acting as director of the newly founded political party. A statement on their website reads, \"If current demographic trends persist, European-Americans will become a minority in America in only a few decades time. The American Third Position will not allow this to happen. To safeguard our identity and culture, and to secure an American future for our people, we will immediately put an indefinite moratorium on all immigration.\" James Edwards, who has interviewed MacDonald on his radio show \"The Political Cesspool\", serves on the American Freedom Party's Board of Directors.\n\nIn October 2016, MacDonald spoke at an event hosted by the Holocaust denial organization Institute for Historical Review, where he said that \"Jews have successfully portrayed themselves as the ultimate victims.\" He shared the podium with the IHR's director Mark Weber and with Gilad Atzmon.\n\nIn November 2016, MacDonald was a keynote speaker at an event hosted in Washington, D.C. by the National Policy Institute, a \"white nationalist think tank\" led by Richard Spencer. The event concluded with Spencer leading the chant, \"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory.\"\n\nIn a commentary in the \"Wall Street Journal\", political scientist Abraham Miller wrote that McDonald's theories about Jews were \"the philosophical and theoretical inspiration\" behind the slogan \"Jews will not replace us\" used at the 2017 white supremacist Unite the Right rally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38085028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38085028", "title": "Killing caves of Phnom Sampeau", "text": "Killing caves of Phnom Sampeau\n\nThe killing caves of Phnom Sampeau are a Khmer Rouge execution site on Phnom Sampeau, a hill southwest of Battambang in western Cambodia. The Khmer Rouge killed their victims on top of the cave at the rim of a daylight shaft or ceiling hole and then threw the dead body into the cave. Men and women were placed in separate caves and clothes in another. There are a number of caves at Phnom Sampeau (Sampeau Hill) that have traditionally served as Buddhist temples. Today there is a large glass memorial in the cave next to the skulls and bones and a golden reclining Buddha, that can be reached via a staircase. A memorial, assembled from cyclone fencing and chicken wire contains human bones at the base of the stairway.\n\nThe killing caves are located on the Mountain of Phnom Sampeau, about mid-way up the mountain along a well-made diversion road. The mountain is of karstic limestone and has a group of temples located on it.\nThe approach is to the west of Battambang city on the road to Pailin. The mountain is also home for a group of macaques, which feed on bananas left by pilgrims in front of the shrines. There is a natural arch made of stalactites from where there are scenic views of the deep canyon, and the valley also has vegetation of vines and inhabited by bats.\n\nThe caves, which are approached through a series of steps flanked by green vegetation, have a golden, reclining Buddha image. Skulls and bones are kept in a glass-covered cabin next to the Buddha statue. These were the people who were butchered by the Khmer Rouge Regime; the bodies of those who were butchered were thrown through a natural chute from above, a skylight opening. Remnants of war artillery (of the government forces) are seen there, oriented towards Phnom Krapau (Crocodile Mountain), which was the strategic location of the Khmer Rouge during the war. At the base point from where the steps lead to the cave, there is an old memorial, a chicken-wire enclosure which also houses skulls and bones of those killed by the Khmer Rouge. Another feature seen is an incomplete Buddha carving, a image, carved partly into the rock face of the hill, with only the head of the Buddha exposed. Lack of funds was the reason for its incompleteness.\n"}
{"id": "24339548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24339548", "title": "Koza riot", "text": "Koza riot\n\nThe was a violent and spontaneous protest against the US military presence in Okinawa, which occurred on the night of December 20, 1970, into the morning of the following day. Roughly 5,000 Okinawans clashed with roughly 700 American MPs in an event which has been regarded as symbolic of Okinawan anger against 25 years of US military occupation. In the riot, approximately 60 Americans were injured, 80 cars were burned, and several buildings on Kadena Air Base were destroyed or heavily damaged.\n\nFollowing Japan's defeat in World War II, Japan came to be formally occupied by Allied forces and governed under martial law for roughly seven years. While the Occupation of Japan came to an end and most of Japan regained its independence in April 1952, Okinawa Prefecture was to remain under US military occupation for another twenty years.\n\nBy 1970, it had already been decided and was widely known that the US military occupation of Okinawa was going to be ended in 1972, and that Okinawa would return to being a part of independent Japan, but also that a considerable US military presence was to remain. This came in the wake of a number of incidents between servicemen and Okinawan civilians over the years, including a hit-and-run accident in September 1970, only a few months prior to the riot, which resulted in the death of an Okinawan housewife from Itoman. The servicemen involved in that incident were acquitted at their court-martial. This incident fueled the growing discontent of Okinawans with the standard status of forces that exempted US servicemen from Okinawan justice, as are all military personnel stationed on foreign soil long term.\n\nThe riot lasted seven or eight hours, beginning in the early morning hours of December 20, 1970 and continuing past dawn. It was not pre-meditated, planned or arranged, but is said to have erupted spontaneously from tensions, which had reached a breaking point.\n\nAround 1 o'clock that night, a car being driven by a drunk American serviceman hit a drunken Okinawan man, on a road near a major entertainment and red-light district in Koza (now called Okinawa City), a short distance from Kadena Air Force Base. The Americans got out of their car and made sure the man was alright; he presently stood up and walked away. The four men were then about to get back into their car to leave the scene when they were confronted by a number of Okinawan taxi drivers who had witnessed the accident. A crowd began to form; some were shouting \"no more acquittals\", \"Yankee go home\" and \"don’t insult Okinawans\".\n\nTwo American military police vehicles also arrived, sirens blaring. While the newly arrived MPs attempted to extricate their comrades from the situation, the crowd had the victim lie down where he'd been hit, and had him reenact the incident. Many accounts emphasize that the newly arrived MPs ignored the man who had been hit, focusing only on seeking to extricate their countrymen.\n\nAnother American car arriving on the scene accidentally struck one belonging to an Okinawan, and as passersby and people from the neighborhood stopped to get involved, the crowd grew to around 700, began to throw rocks and bottles, and attempted to turn over the car involved in the original accident. Okinawan police were able to remove the American driver safely from the scene, but the confrontation continued to escalate.\n\nWarning shots were fired, attracting a larger crowd, which soon numbered around five thousand; the number of MPs on the scene was now around 700. The rioters broke into, turned over, and torched over seventy cars, and continued to throw rocks and bottles, along with Molotov cocktails assembled in nearby homes, bars, restaurants, and other establishments. The rioters pulled American servicemen from their cars and beat them, then burned their cars. Some of the rioters danced traditional folk dances as the riot continued around them; others passed through the gate into the Air Force Base, overturning and torching cars, breaking windows, and otherwise raining destruction upon American property there as well. About 500 rioters then broke the fence of Kadena Air Base and razed the military employment building and the offices of the \"Stars and Stripes\" newspaper. The MPs, meanwhile, began to deploy tear gas. The riot finally died down and came to an end around 7 o'clock in the morning; in the end, many were injured, including 60 Americans, and 82 people arrested.\n\nA song on the eponymous debut album of the Okinawa-based electronic duo Ryukyu Underground is entitled \"Koza Riot\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18491862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18491862", "title": "Legislative Council of Ceylon", "text": "Legislative Council of Ceylon\n\nThe Legislative Council of Ceylon was the legislative body of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) established in 1833, along with the Executive Council of Ceylon, on the recommendations of the Colebrooke-Cameron Commission. It was the first form of representative government in the island. The 1931 Donoughmore Constitution replaced the Legislative Council with the State Council of Ceylon.\n\nMembers of the Legislative Council, used the post-nominal letters, MLC. \n\nIn 1833 the Colebrooke-Cameron Commission created the Legislative Council of Ceylon, the first step in representative government in British Ceylon. Initially the Legislative Council consisted of 16 members: the British Governor, the five appointed members of the Executive Council of Ceylon (the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Auditor-General, the Treasurer and the General Officer Commanding), four other government officials (including the Government Agents of the Western and Central provinces) and six appointed unofficial members (three Europeans, one Sinhalese, one Tamil and one Burgher). The unofficial members had no right to initiate legislation; they could only contribute to discussion. This was the first step towards giving the people of the country a voice in its administration. However, in 1860 the member of the Legislative Council were given the right to introduce legislation which did not deal with the financial matters.\n\nIn 1889 the number of appointed unofficial members was increased to eight (three Europeans, one Low Country Sinhalese, one Kandyan Sinhalese, one Tamil, one Muslim and one Burgher).\n\nThe Legislative Council was reformed in 1910 by the \"McCallum Reforms\". Membership was increased from 18 to 21, of which 11 were official and 10 were unofficial. Of the non-official members, six were appointed by the governor (two Low Country Sinhalese, two Tamils, one Kandyan Sinhalese and one Muslim) and remaining four were elected (two Europeans, one Burgher and one educated Ceylonese).\n\nThe most notable aspect of the \"McCallum Reforms\" was the introduction of elected members. However, fewer than 3,000 people (4%) could vote, as the right to vote was based on education and assets held. One of the four elected non-official members was Ponnambalam Ramanathan. The financial committee was also established to control the revenue. It included the Colonial Secretary, Colonial Treasurer, Revenue Controller and all the non-official elected members. These changes did not satisfy the Ceylonese, and the movement for constitutional reforms grew.\n\nFurther reforms were enacted in 1920 by the \"First Manning Reforms\". Membership was increased from 21 to 37, of which 14 were official and 23 were unofficial. Of the non-official members, four were appointed by the governor (two Kandyan Sinhalese, one Muslim and one Indian Tamil) and the remaining 19 were elected (11 on a territorial basis, five Europeans, two Burghers and one Chamber of Commerce).\n\nA notable change was the introduction of territorial constituencies. Of the 11 territorial constituencies, three were from the Western Province and one each from the other eight provinces. Three non-official members were elected to the Executive Council. Yet again the Ceylonese were not satisfied and requested more change.\n\nThe \"Second Manning Reforms\" of 1923 increased membership from 37 to 49, of which 12 were official and 37 were unofficial. Of the non-official members, eight were appointed by the governor (three Muslim, two Indian Tamils and three others) and the remaining 29 were elected (23 on a territorial basis, three Europeans, two Burghers, one Ceylon Tamil for the Western Province). The 23 territorial constituencies were distributed as follows:\n\nThe head of the Legislative Council had been the Governor, but the new reforms created the post of President of the Legislative Council, which was held by the Governor on a nominal basis, and the Vice President of the Legislative Council was elected, who was James Peiris. Four non-official members were also selected to be part of the Executive Council.\n\nDue to the shortcomings of the \"Second Manning Reforms\" the Donoughmore Commission was sent to Ceylon. The Commission gained its name from the royal commission under the Earl of Donoughmore that came to Ceylon in 1927. Its recommendations led to Ceylon gaining limited self-government and the replacement of the Legislative Council with the State Council of Ceylon in 1931.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33728", "title": "List of national capitals", "text": "List of national capitals\n\nThis is a list of national capitals, including capitals of territories and dependencies, non-sovereign states including associated states and entities whose sovereignty is disputed. Sovereign states and observer states within the United Nations are shown in bolded text.\n"}
{"id": "7951643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7951643", "title": "Malay Agenda", "text": "Malay Agenda\n\nThe Malay Agenda is a concept in Malaysian politics related to the ideal of \"ketuanan Melayu\" (Malay supremacy or dominance). Although it did not feature in public discussion for much of the 20th century, in the early 2000s, it came to prominence due to its usage in the discourse of several politicians from the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), the leading political party in Malaysia. The Malay Agenda is closely related to UMNO, which sees itself as the guardian of the Malay majority ethnic group in Malaysia.\n\nAccording to one local academic, the Malay Agenda constitutes the special privileges granted to the Malays and other indigenous peoples (collectively referred to as Bumiputras) in the Constitution of Malaysia. This would include the articles relating to the Malay monarchs and the Malaysian head of state, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the portions of the Constitution pertaining to Malay-associated national symbols such as the position of Islam as the state religion, Malay land reservations, and the status of the Malay language as the national language. The controversial Article 153, which grants Malays several preferences and quotas in the sphere of education, employment and the civil service, would also fall under the Malay Agenda. It is held that non-Malay Malaysians were granted Malaysian citizenship in return for their acceptance of the Malay Agenda — in another sense, the Malay Agenda represents half of the Malaysian social contract, with the other half being the granting of citizenship to the non-Malays.\n\nThe Malay Agenda assumes a local tinge at the state level; different states emphasises different aspects of the Agenda. In the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur, urban poverty and slums are the main thrust of the UMNO delegation. In a rural state like Terengganu, poverty eradication and religion are underscored.\n\nThe Malay Agenda has been particularly prominent in UMNO General Assemblies. It is often associated by politicians with Malay political primacy, as embodied by \"ketuanan Melayu\", and the Malaysian New Economic Policy (NEP), which grants Malays substantial preferences and quotas in the private sector.\n\nIn the 2006 UMNO General Assembly, several politicians brought up the issue of leaders from other members of the governing coalition, the Barisan Nasional, who criticised or questioned the government's ethnic policies. One analyst said: \"This AGM is quite interesting in other ways, apart from the feuding that does exist, which seems to purport that there are different groups in opposition to each other within the ruling party; it's clearly a question of what we might call simply as a Malay agenda, and the Malay agenda is the primacy of Malays in politics in this country.\" \n\nAt the Assembly, Education Minister and UMNO Youth Chief Hishamuddin Hussein, who had made headlines when he brandished the Malay dagger (\"kris\") at the previous year's Assembly, stated that \"The Malay Agenda in the National Mission should not be regarded as a zero-sum game, by saying only the Malays are benefiting and that the non-Malays are losing out. The non-bumiputeras should be brave enough to admit that during the implementation of the New Economic Policy, they also derived benefits, either directly or indirectly, through projects in the various sectors.\" Other delegates spoke out against the perceived economic inequities, citing the Malays' official share of equity that stood at 18%, although Malays comprised almost half the Malaysian population.\n\nThe share of equity itself had been heatedly disputed not long before when a local think tank calculated the Malay share of equity to stand at 45% in 2006, based on the 1,000 publicly listed companies. This significantly exceeded the government target of 30%, which had been set by the NEP. However, the figures were disputed by the government, which used par value instead of market value to calculate equity, did not consider any portion of government-linked companies to be Malay-owned, and looked at all 600,000 registered companies instead of just the publicly listed ones. Critics argued, however, that the usage of par value was antiquated and did not reflect the true value of the equity owned.\n\nAt the Assembly, some responded by calling for the Malay equity target to be increased to 70%, in line with the Malay Agenda. At the same time, Deputy Prime Minister Najib Tun Razak said that there would be no time limit set for the achievement of the Malay Agenda, arguing that four centuries of colonialist oppression of the Malays could not be undone in a few decades.\n\n"}
{"id": "3482085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3482085", "title": "Martial arts therapy", "text": "Martial arts therapy\n\nMartial arts Therapy refers to the usage of martial arts as an alternative or complementary therapy for a medical disorder. This can include disorders of the body or of the mind. The therapy may involve applications such as promoting kinaesthetic balance in the elderly or impaired, through T'ai chi ch'uan, or reducing aggressiveness in specific populations (Lamarre, 1999).\n\nWhile more conventional treatments such as weight training and psychotherapy are also of significant benefit, martial arts therapy can embody unique traits that other therapies don’t incorporate into their practice. For example, in children with low self-esteem, this therapy can simultaneously develop areas such as self-defense skills (to defend against physical bullying), physical fitness, instructions on how to handle stressful scenarios in a physical or mental context, and self-confidence, through successful applications of martial technique, such as board-breaking or kata.\n\nOne of the crucial features of the therapy is the type of martial art, as well as the lesson plans of the instructor. For instance, a boxing program with a competition-oriented instructor will not provide the same experience as a t'ai chi instructor who emphasizes mindfulness of one’s actions and thoughts. Although both boxing and t'ai chi can be defined as martial arts, their histories, emphasis and other features are drastically different. Looking specifically at karate, a kyokushin karate class (which emphasizes full-contact sparring with bare knuckles) versus a shotokan karate class (which places more emphasis on personal discipline and control than fighting), research in this area has not yet determined which particular feature(s) of martial arts are of definite therapeutic value.\n\nAn important issue with martial arts therapy in a psychological context is the distinction between a therapeutic approach and a martial approach to the lessons. With the evolution of martial arts into combat systems (Krav Maga) and combat sports (Kickboxing, Submission Wrestling, Mixed martial arts), many instructors and organizations teach only martial/combative techniques with little (if any) attention to philosophical, spiritual or societal issues. In other words, students may only be taught how to fight without lessons in the proper context for applying these techniques, something that is emphasized in more traditional martial art curricula. Hypothetically, if these philosophical/societal teachings were one of the specific therapeutic factors in martial arts study, studying an art without these teachings would be of little therapeutic benefit, and arguably detrimental to psychological health (Reynes, 2002). Additionally, if not properly informed, a patient undergoing martial arts therapy may erroneously believe they are acquiring martial proficiency when in fact, the curriculum they are learning is unsuitable for self-defense or competitive needs.\n\nAnother contentious area is the topic of whether martial arts training promotes or inhibits pro-social behaviours, particularly among youths and adolescents. It has been only within the past 5 years (since 2006) that studies with high-quality methodologies have devoted themselves to this particular topic. Earlier studies had conclusions that suffered from issues such as:\n\n\nIt is this last point that appears to be most pertinent to the question of promoting or inhibiting aggressiveness and delinquency among children. Some researchers point towards a catharsis model where practising a martial art enables a person to \"burn off\" emotional energy to revive themselves. Others claim that under Albert Bandura's social learning theory, receiving praise and benefit for practising violent activities (like some martial arts) reinforces violence in a person and conditions them to be more aggressive and hostile outside of their activity. Endresen & Olweus (2005) recently conducted a study that participating in power sports (which included kick-boxing, boxing, wrestling and weightlifting) \"leads to an increase or enhancement of antisocial involvement in the form of elevated levels of violent as well as non-violent antisocial behaviour outside sports.\" Given that these activities customarily contain few moral/philosophical teachings regarding conduct, this supports a tentative conclusion that traditional martial arts (which \"do\" typically offer moral/philosophical teachings) are superior to modern martial arts or combat sport training in reducing antisocial behaviour in children and adolescents.\n\nIn a physical medicine context, the nature of an injury or disorder may disqualify some arts from usage, as their conventional curriculum/focus may be too rigorous. One wouldn’t expect a patient with joint issues to enroll in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu (which emphasizes techniques to hyper-extend joints to the point of pain submission) or elderly patients to enroll in Muay Thai (which requires a high level of physical fitness and incorporates highly damaging techniques with the elbows, knees, legs, and fists). However, in some cases, curricula were modified so that within these disciplines, martial proficiency was de-emphasized in favor of physical betterment. In one notable study, an Israeli researcher (who was a former Judo champion of Israel) taught a modified form of judo to children that had significant visual and mental impairments (blindness, retardation), and in some cases, physical impairment (such as cerebral palsy). The resulting increase in physical and cognitive abilities of all the children was of greater quantity than other previous forms of physical exercise, in addition to being longer lasting (Gleser, 1992).\nIn Kalarippayattu, Marmachikilsa (Marmam=Vital points) is another expertise achieved by masters who heal the Marma damages –impacts, internal injuries, dislocation, fracture, or paralysis type cases in fight or fall. Course of uzhichil or particular massage with special herbal oil, like ayurvedic model treatment is a routine affair for all Kalari trainees to enhance the flexibility of joints and toning of muscles.Chavitiuzhichil or foot massage is given at the stage of ankathari.\n\nCurrent trends in research on martial arts' therapeutic benefit points towards generally positive outcomes, especially for physical benefits (one exception to this being possible sustained injuries from competitive applications). But for assessing psychosocial benefits, the evidence is more ambiguous. As with any psychological study, defining concepts such as \"happiness\", \"aggressive attitudes\" and \"self-confidence\" can be a challenging task compared to defining physically related concepts such as \"improved cardiovascular health.\"\n\nA frequent measure used in martial arts research to determine therapeutic outcome is the Profile of Mood States (POMS), created by McNair, Lorr, and Droppleman (1971). This is a 65-item survey that measures 6 distinct mood areas, such as \"tension-anxiety\" and \"anger-hostility.\" A commonly used methodology in martial arts studies that employed the POMS was to administer it before a set period of martial instruction and after that same period (ranging from a single lesson to several over days/weeks/months). A successful demonstration of therapeutic benefit would be if study participants showed positive, statistically significant changes in their scores from the first administration to the second.\n\nBeyond these issues of construct validity, even if every study of therapeutic martial arts netted a positive outcome (which has not been the case), determining which facets of the instruction were responsible for the change would be vital for widespread application. Potential factors in martial arts could be: cultivating martial ability (being able to fight), philosophical/moral instruction, the proportion of \"hard\" and \"soft\" techniques, physical exertion, attainment of rank/status, successful application of techniques in the school, developed friendships with other classmates and any other number of factors. Additionally, the benefit may not be derived from any single factor, but through a unique combination of factors that only martial arts provides. At least one study has shown that compared to students in a sport-specific program, a general fitness program, and a control group, students of a martial arts program derived superior improvement in POMS scores compared to the other three groups.\n\nMartial arts therapy is a concept still in development. Researchers have yet to conclusively identify the specific features of martial arts that foster a physical or psychosocial benefit. Some have theorized (see Israeli study cited above) that an important feature is the dyadic interplay between students in most arts; the cooperation and response to feedback in practicing techniques such as throws or strikes may have a carryover to cooperation in real-life settings. However, even if all features are conclusively discovered within a specific art or system, there remains the issue of to what extent the instructors within that art/system provide those features to their students.\n\nMartial arts psychotherapy and participation in the martial arts has also been suggested that it enhances emotional control, cognitive changes and psychosocial developments (Overchuk 2002)\n\nE. Overchuk (2006) Martial arts psychology: A Journey in personal growth and development. National Institute of martial arts and sciences\n"}
{"id": "53889069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53889069", "title": "Mike Enoch", "text": "Mike Enoch\n\nMichael Peinovich (born 1977), commonly known by his pseudonym Mike Enoch, is an American white nationalist and Neo-Nazi anti-semitic conspiracy theorist, blogger and podcast host. He founded the alt-right media hub \"The Right Stuff\" and podcast \"The Daily Shoah\". Through his work, Peinovich ridicules African Americans and other racial minorities, advocates racial separation and a revival of explicit racial discrimination (of the sort practiced in the Jim Crow South and Nazi Germany), and promotes conspiracy theories such as Holocaust denial and white genocide.\n\nPeinovich grew up in suburban Pennsylvania, in an upper-middle class family; he was raised by his father, a college professor, and his stepmother. His parents divorced at a young age. He is of Serbian and Norwegian descent. After graduating high school, he attended and dropped out of several universities before being hired as a computer programmer.\n\nPeinovich's father has disowned him and asked him to change his surname, in light of his neo-Nazi political activities as \"Mike Enoch.\"\n\nThe Right Stuff is a white nationalist, Neo-Nazi blog founded by Enoch that hosts several podcasts, including \"The Daily Shoah.\" The blog is best known for popularizing the use of \"echoes\", an antisemitic marker which uses triple parentheses around names used to identify Jews and people of the Jewish faith on social media. It is part of the broader alt-right movement in the United States. \n\n\"The Right Stuff\" was one of the first websites to make use of the term \"cuckservative\", long before the epithet attracted mainstream attention. The Anti-Defamation League notes that \"The Right Stuff\", like other similar organizations including Identity Evropa and Vanguard America, has also coalesced into a network of regional groups to coordinate activities in the real world, such as posting fliers promoting \"white heritage\" in various cities and universities in the United States.\n\nFirst broadcast in August 2014 and published weekly (and now three times every week), \"The Daily Shoah\"'s name is a parody of \"The Daily Show\" and uses the Hebrew language word referring to the Holocaust. Enoch originally created the show to be edgy and libertarian, and later began sharing antisemitic conspiracy theories around Episode 19, after reading \"The Culture of Critique\" by Kevin B. MacDonald.\n\nOn the show Enoch, along with co-host Seventh Son and a rotating panel of co-hosts and guests (known as \"the Death Panel\") has addressed topics such as immigration, white nationalism, race relations, feminism, Zionism, anti-globalization and political correctness.\n\nThe podcast is widely credited with creating the triple parentheses meme, also known as (((echo))), an antisemitic symbol that has been used to highlight the names of individuals of Jewish ethnicity.\n\n, \"The Daily Shoah\" reportedly had an audience of 100,000 listeners.\n\nIn January 2017, users of the imageboard website 8chan leaked the identities of several of its key contributors, including Peinovich, and revealed that his wife was of Jewish ancestry. Other information released included the names of his family members, his job as a software developer, home address on Manhattan's Upper East Side neighborhood, and his hometown of Maplewood, New Jersey. After initially attempting to deny the reports, Peinovich later admitted that the allegations were true. Though Peinovich initially planned to leave the network, he quickly changed his mind and vowed to continue his activities.\n\nIn an audio statement released on their podcast, \"Daily Shoah\" co-host Seventh Son announced that Peinovich and his wife were separating. The revelation was met with mixed but mostly supportive reactions from fellow alt-right leaders, including David Duke, and Richard B. Spencer.\n\nAfter U.S. Congressman Steve King tweeted praise for Netherlands political candidate Geert Wilders's strong stance against further immigration to Europe, Peinovich joined other alt-right voices in approval of King's position, stating \"King doubles down. Great job. Take note cucks, this is how you *actually* fight the left.\"\n\nHe had expressed support for Donald Trump during the presidential election and the first months of his term, but has disavowed him after Donald Trump ordered airstrikes in Syria. On March 9, Enoch took part in an anti-war protest opposing the 2017 Shayrat missile strike, in which 59 Tomahawk Cruise missiles were launched by the United States against the Shayrat Airbase controlled by Bashar al-Assad and his forces. The protest, organized by Richard B. Spencer, was counter-protested by anti-fascist activists. On the next episode of \"The Daily Shoah\", Enoch and Spencer railed against the perceived attitudes of mainstream conservatives, especially Baby Boomers, and spoke about the growing (and, in their opinions, undue) influence of Ivanka Trump and Senior Adviser Jared Kushner on President Donald Trump, as well as neoconservative and pro-Israel influences within the Trump administration. He also commented that the alt-right was now \"the only legitimate anti-war movement in the United States,\" and that the antifa counter-protesters supported Trump and the military strike by virtue of counter-protesting an anti-war demonstration.\n\nOn April 18, 2017, Enoch joined Richard B. Spencer in giving a talk at Auburn University where he expressed that he and the movement were breaking away from the new direction that the Trump administration was taking. While Auburn administration had initially cancelled the planned event, citing safety concerns, Enoch assisted Spencer in filing a lawsuit on First Amendment grounds. United States federal judge William Keith Watkins issued a ruling requiring Auburn to allow Spencer and Enoch to speak.\n\nIn April 2018, he was retweeted by Ann Coulter. After \"Newsweek\" reached out to Twitter asking for a comment, his account was suspended.\n\n"}
{"id": "20882460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20882460", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives is a ministry of the Government of Tanzania.\n\nThe three main objectives PR mission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperatives of Tanzania is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31784669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31784669", "title": "Ministry of Cultures (Bolivia)", "text": "Ministry of Cultures (Bolivia)\n\nThe Ministry of Cultures is a Bolivian government ministry which formulates and implements policies in the fields of culture and tourism. \n\nThe Ministry was formed through Chapter XX of Supreme Decree 29894, issued by President Evo Morales on 7 February 2009. \n"}
{"id": "39308883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39308883", "title": "Ministry of Information (Lebanon)", "text": "Ministry of Information (Lebanon)\n\nThe Ministry of Information is the ministry responsible for the distribution of information in Lebanon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14842806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14842806", "title": "Missouri A+ schools program", "text": "Missouri A+ schools program\n\nThe Missouri A+ Schools Program is a legislated, statewide reform effort that offers a framework and incentives for providing quality education for all students in Missouri.\n\nStudent financial incentives will be available for a period of four (4) years after high school graduation.\n\nEach student must enter into a written agreement with the school prior to high school graduation and:\n\nEach participating student must during the four (4)-year period of incentive availability:\n\nIn September 2014, the Missouri Department of Higher Education announced a possible reduction of reimbursement to current and future college students. According to Leroy Wade, deputy commissioner of the Missouri Department of Higher Education, the changes could take place as early as January 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "5373023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5373023", "title": "National Popular Vote Inc.", "text": "National Popular Vote Inc.\n\nNational Popular Vote Inc. is a non-profit organization based in Los Altos, California, launched in 2006 by Barry Fadem and John Koza, and led by Fadem, Koza and businessman, reform advocate and past Independence Party candidate for Governor of New York B. Thomas Golisano. Its purpose, according to its official website, is \"to study, analyze and educate the public regarding a proposal to provide for the nationwide popular election of the President\", and it champions the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact.\n\nNational Popular Vote's proposal is a type of electoral college reform also known as the Amar Plan.\n\nThe group's official website describes their approach as follows:\n\"Nationwide popular election of the President can be implemented if the states join together to pass identical state laws awarding all of their electoral votes to the presidential candidate receiving the most popular votes in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The proposed state legislation would come into effect only when it has been enacted, in identical form, by enough states to elect a President -- that is, by states possessing a majority (270) of the 538 electoral votes.\"\n\nWithin the first several months of its 2006 launch and media campaign, National Popular Vote's proposal began to make progress in various state legislatures. Early action occurred both in large Democratic strongholds California, New York, and Illinois, as well as in medium-sized swing and red states such as Colorado, Missouri, and Louisiana.\n\nSome have speculated that the organization is being poorly advised and lacks the political strategy to successfully pass the initiative in state legislatures. Particularly, the organization has failed to garner Republican support for the proposal given the Republican National Committee's formal declaration of opposition.\n\nNational Popular Vote is one of the nonprofit organizations whose funds may have been embezzled in the \"Kinde Durkee Scandal.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7031578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7031578", "title": "Netocracy", "text": "Netocracy\n\nNetocracy was a term invented by the editorial board of the American technology magazine \"Wired\" in the early 1990s. A portmanteau of \"Internet\" and \"aristocracy\", \"netocracy\" refers to a perceived global upper-class that bases its power on a technological advantage and networking skills, in comparison to what is portrayed as a bourgeoisie of a gradually diminishing importance.\n\nThe concept was later picked up and redefined by the Swedish philosophers Alexander Bard and Jan Söderqvist for their book \"Netocracy — The New Power Elite and Life After Capitalism\" (originally published in Swedish in 2000 as \"Nätokraterna - boken om det elektroniska klassamhället\", published in English by Reuters/Pearsall UK in 2002).\n\nThe netocracy concept has been compared with Richard Florida's concept of the creative class. Bard and Söderqvist have also defined an under-class in opposition to the netocracy, which they refer to as the consumtariat.\n\nAlexander Bard describes a new underclass called the consumtariat, a portmanteau of consumer and proletariat, whose main activity is consumption, regulated from above. It is kept occupied with private problems, its desires provoked with the use of adverts and its active participation is limited to things like product choice, product customization, engaging with interactive products and life-style choice.\n\nSimilar to Netocracy, is the concept of Cyberdeutocracy. Karl W. Deutsch in his book The Nerves of Government: Models of Political Communication and Control hypothesized about “information elites, controlling means of mass communication and, accordingly, power institutions, the functioning of which is based on the use of information in their activities.” Thus Deutsch introduced the concept of deutocracy, combining the words ‘ Deutsch’ and ‘ autocracy’ to get the new term\nCombining terms 'deutocracy' and ‘ autocracy’ one can get a new term cyberdeutocracy. It is defined as a political regime, based on the control of the political and corporate elites of the information and communication infrastructure of the Internet space. \nCyberdeutocracy, thus as its fundamental basis has such a resource as the global and managed virtual communication space within which the destruction of the existing, transformation, generation, and introduction in the public consciousness of alternative meanings, symbols, values, and ideas takes place, that shape perception society of political reality take place.The term was first introduced by Phillip Freiberg, in his article that analyzed alleged Russian cyber involvement in 2016 U.S. elections, as well as banning people from social networks based on their political views.\nNetocracy can also refer to \"Internet-enabled democracy\" where issue-based politics will supersede party-based politics.\n\nThe word \"netocracy\" is also used as a portmanteau of \"Internet\" and \"democracy\", not of \"Internet\" and \"aristocracy\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35599782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35599782", "title": "No, They Can't", "text": "No, They Can't\n\nNo, They Can't: Why Government Fails – But Individuals Succeed is a 2012 book by John Stossel, the American consumer reporter, investigative journalist, author and libertarian columnist. It was published on April 10, 2012, and focuses on what Stossel sees as the failures of government intervention.\n\nStossel argues that \"he has dismantled society’s fat cows with unerring common sense. Now he debunks the most sacred of them all: our intuition and belief that government can solve our problems.\" The term \"no, they can't\" is a rebuttal to the chant used in Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign (\"Yes we can\").\n\nThe book gives several examples of government intervention: trade barriers, food and medical regulation, the education system, labor unions, gun control, minimum wage laws, the war on drugs, and advocates of universal health care. Stossel heavily criticizes economic egalitarianism, stating that an incentive for innovation is a higher income. Many of the statements in the book were later reiterated in episodes of \"Stossel\". It also makes positive statements about free people and markets, including coining the phrase the double thank-you of capitalism.\n\n\"No, They Can't\" entered \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list at number 17 in the April 29, 2012, issue. Robert VerBruggen of the \"National Review\" and \"The Washington Times\" said that the book was \"a perfect gift for a libertarian to give a friend or family member who has liberal instincts, so long as those instincts are accompanied by an open mind.\" A television special was created to accompany the book, first shown on April 15, 2012. Stossel went on a twenty-day tour to promote the book; the eighth day of the tour was filmed as an episode of \"Stossel\".\n"}
{"id": "10416796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10416796", "title": "Pharmaceutical lobby", "text": "Pharmaceutical lobby\n\nThe pharmaceutical lobby refers to the representatives of pharmaceutical drug and biomedicine companies who engage in lobbying in favour of the pharmaceutical industry and its products.\n\nThe largest pharmaceutical companies and their two trade groups, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and Biotechnology Innovation Organization, lobbied on at least 1,600 pieces of legislation between 1998 and 2004. According to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics, pharmaceutical companies spent $900 million on lobbying between 1998 and 2005, more than any other industry. During the same period, they donated $89.9 million to federal candidates and political parties, giving approximately three times as much to Republicans as to Democrats. According to the Center for Public Integrity, from January 2005 through June 2006 alone, the pharmaceutical industry spent approximately $182 million on Federal lobbying. The industry has 1,274 registered lobbyists in Washington D.C. \n\nCritics of the pharmaceutical lobby argue that the drug industry's influence allows it to promote legislation friendly to drug manufacturers at the expense of patients. The lobby's influence in securing the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was considered a major and controversial victory for the industry, as it prevents the government from directly negotiating prices with drug companies who provide those prescription drugs covered by Medicare. Price negotiations are instead conducted between manufacturers and the pharmacy benefit managers providing Medicare Part D benefits under contract with Medicare. In 2010 the Congressional Budget Office estimated the average discount negotiated by pharmacy benefit managers at 14%.\n\nThe high price of U.S. prescription drugs has been a source of ongoing controversy. Corporations state that the high costs are the result of pricey research and development programs. Critics point to the development of drugs having only small incremental benefit. According to Marcia Angell, the former head of the New England Journal of Medicine, \"The United States is the only advanced country that permits the pharmaceutical industry to charge exactly what the market will bear.\" In contrast, the RAND Corporation and authors from the National Bureau of Economic Research have argued that price controls stifle innovation and are economically counterproductive in the long term.\n\n"}
{"id": "41573326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41573326", "title": "Physics Aptitude Test", "text": "Physics Aptitude Test\n\nThe Physics Aptitude Test (PAT) is a 2-hour subject-specific admissions test for applicants to the University of Oxford for undergraduate degree courses in Engineering, Materials Science and Physics undergraduate degree courses.\n\nThe PAT is held pre-interview stage at the beginning of November. Test results are not published automatically, but candidates may request their test score as part of the usual University of Oxford feedback process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1794981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1794981", "title": "Piazza Fontana bombing", "text": "Piazza Fontana bombing\n\nThe Piazza Fontana Bombing () was a terrorist attack that occurred on 12 December 1969 when a bomb exploded at the headquarters of \"Banca Nazionale dell'Agricoltura\" (National Agrarian Bank) in Piazza Fontana (some 200 metres from the \"Duomo\") in Milan, Italy, killing 17 people and wounding 88. The same afternoon, three more bombs were detonated in Rome and Milan, and another was found unexploded.\n\nOn 25 April 1969 a bomb exploded at the Fiat booth at a Milan trade fair, in which five people were injured. There was also a bomb discovered at the city's central station. The explosion at Piazza Fontana was not the first, but part of a well-coordinated series of attacks.\n\nThe Piazza Fontana bombing was initially attributed to anarchists. After over 80 arrests were made, suspect Giuseppe Pinelli, an anarchist railway worker, died after falling from the fourth floor window of the police station where he was being held. Serious discrepancies existed in the police account, which initially maintained that Pinelli had committed suicide by leaping from the window during a routine interrogation session. Three police officers interrogating Pinelli, including Commissioner Luigi Calabresi, were put under investigation in 1971 for his death, but a later inquiry filed October 25, 1975 concluded that there were no wrongdoings regarding Pinelli's death: public prosecutor Gerardo D'Ambrosio established that his fall had been caused by fainting and losing balance.\n\nDespite being exonerated, the far-left organisation Lotta Continua held Calabresi of being responsible for the death of Pinelli, and in 1972 he was murdered by left-wing militants in revenge. Adriano Sofri and Giorgio Pietrostefani, former leaders of Lotta Continua, were convicted of plotting Calabresi's assassination, while members Ovidio Bompressi and Leonardo Marino were sentenced for carrying it out.\n\nAnarchist Pietro Valpreda was also arrested after a taxi driver, called Cornelio Rolandi, identified him as the suspicious-looking client he had taken to the bank that day. After his alibi was judged insufficient, he was held for three years in preventive detention before being sentenced for the crime. In 1987 he was acquitted by the supreme Court of Cassation for lack of evidence.\n\nThe far-right Neo-fascist organization \"Ordine Nuovo\", founded by Pino Rauti, came under suspicion. On 3 March 1972 Franco Freda, Giovanni Ventura and Rauti were arrested and charged with planning the terrorist attacks of 25 April 1969 at the Trade Fair and Railway Station in Milan, and the August 8 and August 9, 1969 bombings of several trains, followed by the Piazza Fontana bombing.\n\nIn 1987, after a number of trials, the Court of Cassation ruled that despite evidence linking Freda, Ventura, and others to the Piazza Fortana bombing, it could not be determined for certain who planned it, nor who carried it out. The Court confirmed the convictions of Freda and Ventura in relation to the bombs placed in Padua and Milan, for which they each received a sentence of 16 years.\n\nAlso in 1987 the Milanese Guido Salvini reopened the investigation based on new evidence. Martino Siciliano, a member of \"Ordine Nuovo\", decided to cooperate when presented with a taped telephone conversation between Delfo Zorzi and some associates which contained the observation that, \"the Siciliano problem could be solved with a 9 caliber gun\". Siciliano said that he had been present at a meeting with Zorzi and Carlo Maria Maggi in April 1969, in the Ezzelino bookstore in Padua owned by Giovanni Ventura, when Freda announced the program of the train bombings. Despite a death threat from Pino Rauti, electrician Tullio Fabris testified that he had supplied Freda with primers and timers.\n\nCarlo Digilio, confessed explosives expert and advisor to the \"Ordine Nuovo\" in the Veneto was convicted in June 2001, which was subsequently upheld on appeal in March 2004. Digilio displayed instances of memory loss after suffering a stroke in 1995. His subsequent confusion regarding dates and events led to the Court declaring him an unreliable witness.\n\nIn a 2004 trial of neo-fascists the Milan Court of Appeal attributed the Piazza Fontana bombing to Freda and Ventura. However, since they had been acquitted in 1987 they could not be retried.\n\nGeneral Gianandelio Maletti, the head of SID (Servizio Informazioni Difesa), and a member of the secret \"masonic\" society P2 was found responsible for obstructing the investigation and withholding information during the first trial in Catanzaro. In an effort to protect extreme right-wing groups, Maletti destroyed a report concerning the Padua cell of \"Ordine Nuovo\" and arranged for potential witnesses to leave the country. Maletti subsequently emigrated to South Africa.\n\nCaptain Antonio Labruna, of SID, was also implicated in aided and abetting the departure of witnesses Marco Pozzan and Giannettini Guido. Maletti and Labruna were convicted in January 1987.\n\nSeveral elements brought the investigators to the theory that members of extreme right-wing groups were responsible for the bombings:\n\n\nMain stages of the trial:\n\n\nThe supreme Court of Cassation sentenced two members of the Italian secret services – General Gian Adelio Maletti (1 year of jail) and Captain Antonio Labruna (10 months) – to having misled the investigation and acquitted Marshal Gaetano Tanzilli, accused of perjury.\n\n\nStefano Tringali, accused of abetting, benefited from the prescription after being sentenced to one year in prison in the appeal trial.\nThe Supreme Court rejected as «false» Digilio's «alleged affiliation with US services». The Court found that in 1969 the Venetian group of Zorzi and Maggi organized the attacks, but it is not proven their participation in the massacre of 12 December.\nThe Court certifies that Martino Siciliano (another Ordine Nuovo's pentito) attended to the assembly with Zorzi and Maggi in April 1969, in the library Ezzelino of Padua, where Freda announced the program of the train bombings. But since those bombs didn't kill nobody, it's not evidence the involvement of Zorzi and Maggi in the next subversive strategy of Freda and Ventura, and in the other acts of terrorism. The tragic events of 12 December 1969 didn't represent a loose cannon, but were the result of a subversive operation enrolled in a program subversive well settled.\n\nThe bombing was the work of a right wing group, \"Ordine Nuovo\" whose aim was to prevent the country falling into the hands of the left-wing by duping the public into believing the bombings were part of a communist insurgency.\n\nA 2000 parliamentary report published by the Olive Tree coalition (an alliance of the Communist Party and the Democratic Party of the Left) claimed that \"U.S. intelligence agents were informed in advance about several right-wing terrorist bombings, including the December 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing in Milan and the Piazza della Loggia bombing in Brescia five years later, but did nothing to alert the Italian authorities or to prevent the attacks from taking place.\" It also alleged that Pino Rauti (current leader of the MSI Fiamma-Tricolore party), a journalist and founder of the far-right Ordine Nuovo (New Order) subversive organization, received regular funding from a press officer at the U.S. embassy in Rome. \"So even before the 'stabilising' plans that Atlantic circles had prepared for Italy became operational through the bombings, one of the leading members of the subversive right was literally in the pay of the American embassy in Rome\", the report says.\n\nPaolo Emilio Taviani, the Christian Democrat co-founder of Gladio (NATO's stay-behind anti-Communist organization in Italy), told investigators that the SID military intelligence service was about to send a senior officer from Rome to Milan to prevent the bombing, but decided to send a different officer from Padua in order to put the blame on left-wing anarchists. In an August 2000 interview with \"Il Secolo XIX\" newspaper Taviani said that he did not believe the US Central Intelligence Agency was involved in organising the Milan bomb. However he alleged \"It seems to me certain, however, that agents of the CIA were among those who supplied the materials and who muddied the waters of the investigation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1222028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1222028", "title": "Pine tar", "text": "Pine tar\n\nPine tar is a sticky material produced by the high temperature carbonization of pine wood in anoxic conditions (dry distillation or destructive distillation). The wood is rapidly decomposed by applying heat and pressure in a closed container; the primary resulting products are charcoal and pine tar.\n\nPine tar consists primarily of aromatic hydrocarbons, tar acids and tar bases. Components of tar vary according to the pyrolytic process (e.g. method, duration, temperature) and origin of the wood (e.g. age of pine trees, type of soil and moisture conditions during tree growth). The choice of wood, design of kiln, burning and collection of the tar can vary. Only pine stumps and roots are used in the traditional production of pine tar.\n\nPine tar has a long history as a wood preservative, as a wood sealant for maritime use, in roofing construction and maintenance, in soaps and in the treatment of carbuncles and skin diseases, such as psoriasis, eczema, and rosacea. One niche application has been in Major League Baseball (MLB) where pine tar is used to enhance the grip of a hitter’s bat. Pine tar is also sometimes used by pitchers to improve their grip on the ball in cold weather.\n\nPine tar has long been used in Scandinavian nations as a preservative for wood which may be exposed to harsh conditions, including outdoor furniture and ship decking and rigging. The high-grade pine tar used in this application is often called Stockholm Tar since, for many years, a single company held a royal monopoly on its export out of Stockholm, Sweden. It is also known as \"Archangel Tar\". Tar and pitch for maritime use was in such demand that it became an important export for the American colonies, which had extensive pine forests. North Carolinians became known as \"Tar Heels.\"\n\nPine tar was used as a preservative on the bottoms of traditional Nordic style skis until modern synthetic materials replaced wood in their construction. It also helped waxes adhere, which aided such skis’ grip and glide. \n\nPine tar is widely used as a veterinary care product, particularly as an antiseptic and hoof care treatment for horses and cattle. It also has been used when chickens start pecking the low hen. Applying a smear of pine tar on the wound acts as a natural germicidal/antibacterial and discourages continued attacks on the affected hen due to its foreign texture.\n\nPine tar is used as a softening solvent in the rubber industry, for treating and fabricating construction materials, and in special paints.\n\nPine tar is combined with gum turpentine and boiled linseed oil to create a wood preservative. First, a thin coat is applied using a mixture with a greater proportion of turpentine. This allows it to permeate deeper into the oakum and fibre of the wood and lets the tar seep into any pinholes and larger gaps that might be in the planks. The tar weeps out to the exterior and indicates where the boat needs the most attention. This is followed with a thicker standard mix. Such treatments, while effective, must be continually reapplied.\n\nTraditionally, hemp and other natural fibers were the norm for rope production. Such rope would quickly rot when exposed to rain, and was typically tarred to preserve it. The tar would stain the hands of ship's crews, and British Navy seamen became known as \"tars.\"\n\nPine tar is applied to the handles of baseball bats to improves a batter's grip.\n\nRule 1.10(c) of the 2002 Official rules of Major League Baseball restricts application to the lower 18 inches of a bat. The most famous example of the rule being applied is the Pine Tar Incident, which occurred during the July 24, 1983 game between the Kansas City Royals and New York Yankees. \n\nPine tar is also sometimes used by pitchers to improve their grip on the ball in cold weather. This is allowed in spite of a regulation prohibiting the application of any foreign substance to a ball (except grip-improving Baseball Rubbing Mud applied by the umpires).8.02 Nevertheless batters feel it gives a pitcher a competitive advantage.\n\nPine tar has historically been used for treating skin conditions, usually in soap form. This was banned by the FDA along with many other ingredients due to a lack of proof of their effectiveness.\n\nSome pine tar products contain creosote, a probable carcinogen. Creosote potentially may be produced when the pine wood is heated up to high temperatures in the creation of pine tar.\n\nPine tar is also used in veterinary medicine as an expectorant and an antiseptic in chronic skin conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54401054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54401054", "title": "Ratf**ked", "text": "Ratf**ked\n\nRatf**ked is a 2016 book by David Daley () that discusses efforts by some Republican political operatives, including Karl Rove, Ed Gillespie and Chris Jankowski, to exploit redistricting processes around the United States in order to gain greater control of the American Congress, under a project called REDMAP. Daley was the editor-in-chief of the online publication \"Salon\".\n"}
{"id": "3703771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3703771", "title": "Reference Re Persons of Japanese Race", "text": "Reference Re Persons of Japanese Race\n\nReference Re Persons of Japanese Race is a famous decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which upheld a Supreme Court of Canada ruling declaring a government order to deport Canadian citizens of Japanese descent to be valid.\n\nIn January 1942, paranoia among white Canadians on the west coast had reached its peak. On February 24, 1942, an order-in-council passed under the \"Defence of Canada Regulations\" made under the \"War Measures Act\" gave the federal government the power to intern all \"persons of Japanese racial origin.\" Nearly 21,000 people of Japanese descent were placed in these camps.\n\nIn December 1945, the federal Cabinet issued three Orders in Council:\n\nAfter the war, these Orders in Council that authorized the deportation were challenged on the basis that the forced deportation of the Japanese was a crime against humanity and that a citizen could not be deported from their own country. The federal Cabinet posed the following reference question to the Supreme Court of Canada:\n\nThe matter was heard by the Supreme Court in the first case heard in the newly constructed building housing the Court.\n\nThe SCC rendered a mixed ruling:\n\nThree justices (Rand, Kellock and Estey JJ) stated that the Orders in Council continued to have effect after the \"War Measures Act\" ceased to be in force on 1 January 1946, by virtue of the \"National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1946\".\n\nRinfret CJ and Kerwin and Taschereau JJ, being the only three justices to uphold the validity of all three Orders in Council in their entirety, held that they were lawful because such orders arising from the \"War Measures Act\" are legislative in nature equivalent to an Act of Parliament in line with previous jurisprudence.\n\nThe case was appealed to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which declared that all three Orders in Council were \"intra vires\", for the reasons given at the SCC by Rinfret CJ and Kerwin and Taschereau JJ.\n\nIn 1946, 3,965 people were repatriated to Japan. \n\nIn 1947, due to various protests among politicians and academics, the Federal Cabinet revoked the legislation to repatriate the remaining Japanese Canadians to Japan. It was only in April 1949 that all restrictions were lifted from Japanese Canadians. However, former Canadian citizens of Japanese ancestry now living in Japan were denied passports.\n\nThe Canadian government also launched a Royal Commission (led by Justice Henry Bird) in 1947 to examine the issue of compensation for confiscated property. By 1950, the Bird Commission awarded $1.3 million in claims to 1,434 Japanese Canadians; however, it accepted only claims based on loss of property, refusing to compensate for wrongdoing in terms of civil rights, damages due to loss of earnings, disruption of education or other issues.\n\nOn September 22, 1988, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney gave a formal apology and the Canadian government announced a compensation package, one month after President Ronald Reagan made similar gestures in the United States. The package for interned Japanese Canadians included $21,000 to each surviving internee, and the reinstatement of Canadian citizenship to those who were deported to Japan. The agreement also awarded $12 million to the NAJC to promote human rights and support the community, and $24 million for the establishment of the Canadian Race Relations Foundation to push for the elimination of racism. Nothing was given for those that had been interned and died before compensation was given out.\n\n"}
{"id": "4825395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4825395", "title": "Skapti Þóroddsson", "text": "Skapti Þóroddsson\n\nSkapti Þóroddsson (died 1030) was an Icelandic lawspeaker and skald. He became lawspeaker in 1004, succeeding his uncle Grímr when the latter's voice failed him. He held office till his death in 1030, longer than anyone else. According to \"Íslendingabók\" he instituted judicial reform by establishing the \"fifth court\", a national court of appeals.\n\nAccording to \"Skáldatal\", Skapti was a court poet of Hákon Sigurðarson but no details on that career are known. According to Heimskringla, he composed a poem on king Óláfr Haraldsson and sent his son Steinn to perform it for the king.\n\nThe only piece of poetry by Skapti which has come down to us is decidedly Christian and can not have been composed at Hákon's court. Snorri Sturluson cites the following half-stanza by Skapti in a discussion of Christian kennings in \"Skáldskaparmál\".\nSkapti is mentioned in some of the Icelanders' sagas, for example \"Njáls saga\" where he has a minor role.\n\n"}
{"id": "46818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46818", "title": "Surveillance aircraft", "text": "Surveillance aircraft\n\nA surveillance aircraft is an aircraft used for surveillance—collecting information over time. They are operated by military forces and other government agencies in roles such as intelligence gathering, battlefield surveillance, airspace surveillance, observation (e.g. artillery spotting), border patrol and fishery protection. This article concentrates on aircraft used in those roles, rather than for traffic monitoring, law enforcement and similar activities.\n\nSurveillance aircraft usually carry no armament, or only limited defensive armament. A surveillance aircraft does not necessarily require high-performance capability or stealth characteristics. It may be a modified civilian aircraft. Surveillance aircraft have also included moored balloons (e.g. TARS) and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).\n\nThe terms “surveillance” and “reconnaissance” have sometimes been used interchangeably, but, in the military context, a distinction can be drawn between surveillance, which monitors a changing situation in real time, and reconnaissance, which captures a static picture for analysis.\n\nSurveillance is sometimes grouped with Intelligence, Target acquisition and Reconnaissance under the title ISTAR.\n\nObservation was the term used for surveillance when the main sensor was the human eye.\n\nIn 1794, during the Battle of Fleurus, the French Aerostatic Corps balloon \"L'Entreprenant\" remained afloat for nine hours. French officers used the balloon to observe the movements of the Austrian Army, dropping notes to the ground for collection by the French Army, and also signalled messages using semaphore.\n\nOne of the first aircraft used for surveillance was the Rumpler Taube during World War I, when aviators like Fred Zinn evolved entirely new methods of reconnaissance and photography. The translucent wings of the plane made it very difficult for ground-based observers to detect a Taube at an altitude above 400 m. The French also called this plane \"the Invisible Aircraft\", and it is sometimes also referred to as the \"world's very first stealth plane\". German Taube aircraft were able to detect the advancing Russian army during the Battle of Tannenberg (1914).\n\nDuring World War II, light aircraft such as the Auster were used as air observation posts. Officers from the British Royal Artillery were trained as pilots to fly AOP aircraft for artillery spotting.\nThe air observation role was generally taken over by light observation helicopters, such as the Hughes OH-6 Cayuse, from the mid-1960s.\n\nPre war, the British identified a need for an aircraft that could follow and observe the enemy fleet at a distance. To this end the slow-flying Airspeed Fleet Shadower and General Aircraft Fleet Shadower designs were built and flown in 1940 but they were made obsolete by the introduction of airborne radar.\n\nSpy flights were a source of major contention between the US and Soviet Union during most of the 1960s.\n\nMaritime patrol aircraft are typically large, slow machines capable of flying continuously for many hours, with a wide range of sensors. Such aircraft include the Hawker-Siddeley Nimrod, the Breguet Atlantique, the Tupolev Tu-95, the Lockheed P-2 Neptune and the Lockheed P-3 Orion/CP-140 Aurora.\n\nPredator UAVs have been used by the US for border patrol.\n\nUnmanned (UAV) surveillance aircraft have been deployed or are under development in many countries, including Israel, the UK, the United States, Canada, China, India, South Africa and Pakistan.\n\nUnmanned surveillance UAVs include both airships—such as Sky Sentinel \nand HiSentinel 80—and airplanes.\n\nMost air forces around the world lack dedicated surveillance planes.\n\nSeveral countries adapt aircraft for electronic intelligence (ELINT) gathering. The Beech RC-12 Super King Air and Boeing RC-135 Rivet Joint are examples of this activity.\n\nWith smaller equipment, long-range business aircraft can be modified in surveillance aircraft to perform specialized missions cost-effectively, from ground surveillance to maritime patrol:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24677174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24677174", "title": "The Harvest (2010 film)", "text": "The Harvest (2010 film)\n\nThe Harvest () is a 2010 documentary film about agricultural child labor in America. The film depicts children as young as 12 years of age who work as many as 12 hours a day, six months a year, subject to hazardous conditions: heat exposure, pesticides, and dangerous work. The agriculture industry has been subject to significantly more lenient labor laws than any other occupation in the United States. As a result, lack of consistent schooling significantly limits their opportunities of succeeding in high school or more. The hazardous conditions threaten their health and lives. The purpose of the documentary is to bring awareness of the harsh working conditions which tens of thousands of children face in the fields of the United States each year and to enact the Children's Act for Responsible Employment (CARE Act, HR 3564) which will bring parity of labor conditions to field workers that are afforded to minors in other occupations.\n\nThe Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has different standards for children working in agriculture than in any other industry. The Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs estimates that there are between 400,000 and 500,000 children working in the farming industry. Children as young as 12 years of age work in the fields. There is no minimum number of hours worked a day, aside from being outside school hours. They are exposed to the sun, harmful pesticides and hazardous conditions. Children are in up to three times greater danger of exposure to pesticides than adults due to their size and stage of development. The fatality rate is six times that in any other industry: children account for 20% of all deaths on farms. Although agriculture is a hazardous occupation, no statistics are maintained on child laborers and serious accidents.\n\nChildren who work on farms or in fields spend on average 30 hours a week, even during times of the year when school is in session. Of the children who work on farms, 50% of them will not graduate from high school. The United States Department of Labor estimates that children earn about $1,000 in one year.\n\n\"The Harvest\" is a feature documentary film on the life of migrant children and their families in the United States. It revisits Edward R. Murrow’s \"Harvest of Shame\", filmed 53 years ago, and reveals that little has changed over the past five decades in the lives of migrant farm workers in the United States. \"The Harvest\", however, is told from a child's perspective as it presents four of the more than 400,000 children between the ages of 5 and 16 who labor in fields and factories, lacking the protections offered by the Fair Labor Standards Act that all other American children enjoy.\n\nThe film profiles several children and their families as they work through the 2009 - 2010 harvest seasons, facing risks of being separated, deported or death. A twelve-year-old girl, Zulema L., works in a field of strawberries. One of her earliest memories is being taught by her mother to pick and clean strawberries. Zulema struggles academically because of the family's seasonal movement. She has attended eight different schools in eight years. Not confident that she will make it to high school, she has no dreams about what her future could hold. The documentary tracks other children with their own stories of living a life of a child laborer.\n\nWork began on the documentary in June 2007 and through the 2009 - 2010 harvests. In that time the project has followed harvests in Minnesota, North Dakota, Texas, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio. The documentary was shot with cinematic scope. Post-production began in early winter 2010, with the completion of the film in fall 2010.\n\n\"The Harvest\" was produced by Shine Global in association with Globalvision, Romano Film and Photography, and Eva Longoria's UnbeliEVAble Productions. Longoria signed on as an executive producer of the project in 2009. It was directed by U. Roberto (Robin) Romano, photographer of \"Faces of Freedom\".\n\n\"The Harvest\" premiered at the International Documentary Film Festival IDFA in Amsterdam in November 2010, and at the Guadalajara International Film Festival in Guadalajara, Mexico on March 26, 2011. Distributed by Cinema Libre, The film had its theatrical debut in New York City on July 29, 2011, and became available on DVD October 2011.\n\nEva Longoria, director U. Roberto Romano, and associate director Julia Perez visited Capitol Hill to mark the anniversary of Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard’s introduction of the CARE Act legislation in September 2009. The Children’s Act for Responsible Employment (CARE Act, HR 3564) addresses the harshest conditions that tens of thousands of children as young as 12 years of age may be subject to, such as restrictions in the number of hours that children work in a day. The intention of the bill is to raise the standard for children working in agriculture to that of any other occupation in the United States. As of September 1, 2010 the bill had 103 co-sponsors. While on Capitol Hill, Longoria and Romano showed scenes from the feature-length documentary to illustrate the harsh working conditions and exploitation of children in the fields.\n\nA trailer of the film was first privately screened at a United States Department of Labor panel discussion, hosted by Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and including Dolores Huerta of the United Farm Workers, filmmaker Robin Romano, Mark Lara from the Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division, and other experts. During the presentation, details of Roybal-Allard's bill were outlined: a child must be a minimum of 14 years of age to work in the fields, children under the age of 16 are restricted from working in the fields if it affects their health or school performance, and children under the age of 18 are restricted from hazardous work.\n\nOn August 12 of 2014, the film's Associate Director, Julia Perez, spoke before the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on behalf of farm worker rights and child labor in U.S. agriculture. The UN press release mentioned exposure to pesticides, wage theft, sexual assault, police harassment and other illegal working conditions faced by children — largely Latino children who either were born in the United States or migrated with their families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44753391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44753391", "title": "Tseghakronism", "text": "Tseghakronism\n\nTseghakronism ( translit. \"\") is a national/ethnic and political movement towards a renewal of the spiritual, behavioral and cultural identity of the Armenian people. \n\"Tseghakron\" literally means \"carrier of race \" referring to those who represent and carry what is the spiritual and biological essence of the \"classical\" Armenian. However, it is often erroneously interpreted to mean \"race-religion\".\n\nThe movement was founded by Garegin Nzhdeh, and his associates Hayk Asatryan and Nerses Astvatsaturyan later refined it as the ideology of Taronism (Տարոնականություն) - an organic part and continuation of Tseghakronism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42598989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42598989", "title": "Twitter diplomacy", "text": "Twitter diplomacy\n\nTwitter diplomacy, also \"Twiplomacy\" or \"hashtag diplomacy\", is the use of social network and microblogging website, Twitter, by heads of state, leaders of intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), and their diplomats to conduct diplomatic outreach and public diplomacy.\n\nTwitter has taken on diverse and occasional roles in diplomatic communications, from cordial announcements of bi-lateral cooperation to terse exchanges and diplomatic jabs, as well as more casual posts.\n\nThe term twitplomacy was proposed in 2011, in a pioneer work focused on the study of diplomacy within the social networks. This report purports to show how presidents use Twitter to keep diplomatic relationships with other presidents and political actors. However, the use of Twitter by world leaders and diplomats was on the rise as of April 2014, but Twitter diplomacy was only one aspect of the growing trend toward digital diplomacy, also known as eDiplomacy or Facebook diplomacy, by many world governments.\n\nAs of April 2014, an estimated 241 million active users had joined Twitter. Twitter also offers policymakers the possibility to hear the many perspectives of a worldwide audience.\n\nWorld leaders and their diplomats have taken note of Twitter's rapid expansion and have begun using it to engage with foreign publics and their own citizens. US Ambassador to Russia, Michael A. McFaul has been attributed as a pioneer of international Twitter diplomacy. He used Twitter after becoming ambassador in 2011, posting in English and Russian. A 2013 study by website Twiplomacy found that 153 of the 193 countries represented at the United Nations had established government Twitter accounts. The same study also found that those accounts amounted to 505 Twitter handles used by world leaders and their foreign ministers, with their tweets able to reach a combined audience of over 106 million followers.\n\nCommenting in a 2013 publication on the subject for the Geneva-based, non-profit Diplo, former Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi said of social media, \"Social media exposes foreign policymakers to global audiences while at the same time allowing governments to reach them instantly... Twitter has two big positive effects on foreign policy: it fosters a beneficial exchange of ideas between policymakers and civil society and enhances diplomats' ability to gather information and to anticipate, analyze, manage, and react to events.\"\n\nConfrontations via Twitter diplomacy are visible to a worldwide audience because of Twitter's global nature.\n\nIn April 2014, tensions between the US State Department and the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the 2014 Crimean crisis devolved into dueling tweets, with both ministries using the hashtag #UnitedforUkraine to convey opposite points of view.\n\nTweeting to a global audience also poses challenges to leaders and diplomats. In early 2014, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani decided to delete a controversial tweet that received much media attention, though it was likely intended for his domestic audience.\n\nTwiplomacy's 2013 study provided new insight into the use of Twitter by governments. Twitter registration by region includes:\n\nFormer US President Barack Obama is credited as being the first head of state to establish a Twitter account, originally affiliated with his 2008 presidential campaign, on March 5, 2007 as user number 813,286. He was also the most followed head of state on Twitter.\n\nOther heads of state and government to pioneer the conduct of Twitter diplomacy include Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto, Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, all of whom joined Twitter in 2007.\n\nSince his election in November 2016, US President Donald Trump has been actively engaged in Twitter diplomacy. On August 11, 2017, for example, Trump tweeted, \"Military solutions are now fully in place,locked and loaded, should North Korea act unwisely. Hopefully Kim Jong Un will find another path!\"\n\nAs of April 2014, the United Nations (UN) is the most followed intergovernmental organization, with its website showing over 2.56 million viewers in April 2014. Many of the UN's subordinate funds and agencies also attract large numbers of followers. The United Nations Children's Fund achieved greater popularity than its parent organization, the UN, and is followed by over 2.69 million as of April 2014.\n\nFormer Israeli ambassador to the United States, Michael Oren, echoed the sentiment of many diplomats when responding to a May 2012 question about why he joined Twitter: \"Today there are few alternatives as far-reachng and effective, with very wide audiences and young audiences, as Twitter. Twitter is another tool that enables me to communicate with other diplomats and journalists, while also allowing me to add a personal touch.\"\n\nForeign ministries have caught on, and some are making efforts to advertise their presence on Twitter. The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, for example, published a consolidated list of all UK missions on social media.\n\nThe United States State Department, one of the leaders in digital diplomacy, maintains an active presence on Twitter. Although former United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton encouraged American diplomats to tweet, she did not establish her personal handle until 2013, after she had already left office. Current Secretary John Kerry re-activated his personal Twitter handle after one year on the job. Former US ambassador to the Russian Federation, Michael McFaul, pioneered the use of Twitter for American ambassadors with a steady stream of English/Russian tweets during his 2011–2014 tenure. An academic by trade and not a career diplomat, Ambassador McFaul's tweets were generally blunt and un-polished—uncommon characteristics in the diplomatic world—earning both frequent criticism from the Russian government and praise from his supporters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170826", "title": "Uneconomic growth", "text": "Uneconomic growth\n\nUneconomic growth, in human development theory, welfare economics (the economics of social welfare), and some forms of ecological economics, is economic growth that reflects or creates a decline in the quality of life. The concept is attributed to leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly, though other theorists can also be credited for the incipient idea. Note Uneconomic growth (or uneconomic degrowth) should not be confused with economic degrowth, the reduction of the size of the economy to increase well-being and sustainability.\nThe cost, or decline in well-being, associated with extended economic growth is argued to arise as a result of \"the social and environmental sacrifices made necessary by that growing encroachment on the eco-system.\" In other words, \"[u]neconomic growth occurs when increases in production come at an expense in resources and well-being that is worth more than the items made.\"\n\nThe rate or type of economic growth may have important consequences for the environment (the climate and natural capital of ecologies). Concerns about possible negative effects of growth on the environment and society led some to advocate lower levels of growth, from which comes the idea of uneconomic growth, and Green parties which argue that economies are part of a global society and a global ecology and cannot outstrip their natural growth without damaging them.\n\nCanadian scientist David Suzuki argued in the 1990s that ecologies can only sustain typically about 1.5–3% new growth per year, and thus any requirement for greater returns from agriculture or forestry will necessarily cannibalize the natural capital of soil or forest. Some think this argument can be applied even to more developed economies.\n\nMainstream economists would argue that economies are driven by new technology—for instance, we have faster computers today than a year ago, but not necessarily physically more computers. Growth that relies entirely on exploiting increased knowledge rather than exploiting increased resource consumption may thus not qualify as uneconomic growth. In some cases, this may be true where technology enables lower amounts of input to be used in producing the same unit of product (and/or it reduces the amount or hazardousness of the waste generated per unit product produced) (e.g., the increased availability of movies through the Internet or cable television electronically may reduce the demand for physical video tapes or DVDs for films). Nonetheless, it is crucial to also recognise that innovation- or knowledge-driven growth still may not entirely resolve the problem of scale, or increasing resource consumption. For instance, there might likely be more computers due to greater demand and replacements for slower computers.\n\nThe Jevons Paradox is the proposition that technological progress that increases the efficiency with which a resource is used, tends to increase (rather than decrease) the rate of consumption of that resource. For example, given that expenditure on necessities and taxes remain the same, (i) the availability of energy-saving lightbulbs may mean lower electricity usage and fees for a household but this frees up more discretionary, disposable income for additional consumption elsewhere (an example of the \"rebound effect\") and (ii) technology (or globalisation) that leads to the availability of cheaper goods for consumers also frees up discretionary income for increased consumptive spending.\n\nOn the other hand, new renewable energy and climate change mitigation technology (such as artificial photosynthesis) has been argued to promote a prolonged era of human stewardship over ecosystems known as the Sustainocene. In the Sustainocene, \"instead of the cargo-cult ideology of perpetual economic growth through corporate pillage of nature, globalised artificial photosynthesis will facilitate a steady state economy and further technological revolutions such as domestic nano-factories and e-democratic input to local communal and global governance structures. In such a world, humans will no longer feel economically threatened, but rather proud, that their moral growth has allowed them to uphold Rights of Nature.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "900955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900955", "title": "Union of Democratic Forces (Bulgaria)", "text": "Union of Democratic Forces (Bulgaria)\n\nThe Union of Democratic Forces (, , СДС, SDS) is a political party in Bulgaria, founded in 1989 as a union of several political organizations in opposition to the communist government. The Union was transformed into a single unified party with the same name. The SDS is a member of the European People's Party (EPP). In the 1990s the party had the largest membership in the country, with one million members, but has since splintered into a number of small parties totaling no more than 40,000 members. The SDS proper had 12,000 members in 2016.\n\nDissident groups formed under the faltering regime of Todor Zhivkov in the late 1980s were the basis for the Union. Once Zhivkov fell, a loose political confederation was envisioned where constituent groups could continue to work for their own cause, while the coordinating council would include three members from each organization. The Longtime dissident philosopher Zhelyu Zhelev, who would later become Bulgaria's President, was elected chairman, and Petar Beron, a well-known environmental scientist, was chosen as secretary.\n\nThe SDS was officially founded on 7 December 1989 as a union of eleven political organizations, such as Ekoglasnost, Bulgarian Social Democratic Workers' Party (United) and Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union \"Nikola Petkov\". The following year, six more parties were incorporated (Radical Democratic Party, Green Party of Bulgaria, Democratic Party, New Social Democratic Party, United Democratic Centre, Democratic Front).\n\nThe SDS lost the 1990 elections to the Bulgarian Socialist Party but still participated in the joint cabinet of Dimitar Iliev Popov. On 15 May 1991 39 members left the SDS because of disagreements with the draft of the new constitution and founded the new organizations SDS-Center and SDS-Liberals. Later the remnants of the SDS formed their own cabinet with Prime Minister Filip Dimitrov in November 1991, though the cabinet lasted only a little over a year when the government failed a motion of confidence in September 1992. The socialists, together with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, formed a coalition government headed by Prof. Lyuben Berov. Following the resignation of Berov's cabinet in October 1994, the BSP went on to win the 1994 elections.\n\nHowever, following discontent over economic problems, Prime Minister Zhan Videnov resigned at the end of 1996, clearing the way for new elections, this time won by the SDS with a crushing 55% vote. Party leader Ivan Kostov went on to form the new government and successfully passed several economic reforms. He was eventually rewarded in December 1999 with an invitation to begin membership talks with the European Union. But public discontent over the social cost of the reforms, including increased unemployment, as well as allegations of corruption led to the SDS's defeat in the June 2001 elections, which were won by the National Movement for Simeon II. The United Democratic Forces won 18.2% of the popular vote and 51 out of 240 seats.\n\nThe SDS was chaired until the May 20, 2007 European elections by Petar Stoyanov, former president of the country. Meanwhile, Kostov, the former Prime Minister and SDS party leader went on to form his own party - Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria. At the 2005 parliamentary election, the United Democratic Forces won 8.4% of the popular vote and 20 out of 240 seats.\n\nIt was announced at the inaugural conference of the Movement for European Reform (MER, March 2007) that the SDS would become official partners alongside the British Conservative Party and the Czech Civic Democratic Party. In mid April 2007, the SDS backtracked on its decision, stating that it remains loyal to the EPP and that it will never leave the EPP section of the EPP-ED Group to join another Group.\n\nIn the May 20, 2007 European elections the SDS failed to elect even a single MEP, resulting in the resignation of Stoyanov who led the list.\n\nAt the start of 2009 the SDS entered in an electoral alliance named the \"Blue Coalition\" with four other center-right parties: the DSB, the United Agrarians, the Bulgarian Social Democratic Party and the Radical Democratic Party. The alliance fielded candidates for the June 2009 European election winning a seat. When the Lisbon Treaty came into force in December of that year, their representation doubled. Now both the SDS and the DSB had an MEP.\n\nThe Blue coalition placed fifth in the legislative election a month later with a combined 6.8% of the vote and 15 seats.\n\nIn the May 2013 elections, the SDS lost all of its seats in the Bulgarian National Assembly.\n\nFor the 1997 parliamentary elections, an alliance named United Democratic Forces was formed around SDS. The same name was later used for other elections and parliamentary groups.\n\nIn early 2009 an alliance was formed together with Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria for the European Parliament elections and National Assembly elections. The coalition was named the Blue Coalition and included some other parties.\n\nThe coalition agreement to form the alliance of the Reformist Bloc was signed on 20 December 2013. The five parties that signed the agreement were: Union of Democratic Forces, Democrats for a Strong Bulgaria, Bulgaria for Citizens Movement, People's Party Freedom and Dignity, and the Bulgarian Agrarian National Union.\n\nChairmen of the Coordination Council\n\nChairmen and Chairwomen of the unified party\n\n"}
{"id": "7251458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7251458", "title": "Value measuring methodology", "text": "Value measuring methodology\n\nValue measuring methodology (or VMM) is a tool that helps financial planners balance both tangible and intangible values when making investment decisions, and monitor benefits.\n\nFormal methods to calculate the Return on investment (ROI) have been widely understood and used for a long time, but there was no easy and widely known way to provide a formal justification for decisions based on intangible values, which can include the reputation of an organization, the wellbeing of staff, or the impact on society or the environment at large. It was particularly difficult for decision makers to work through the trade-offs between costs and intangible benefits, especially for long-term investments by commercial organizations, and for governments and non-profit organizations who are primarily concerned with intangible values without wasting limited funds. Even within commercial organizations, units traditionally viewed as \"cost centres\" found it difficult to get acceptance of proposals for projects that would lead to general and long-term efficiency or capability gains, as the benefits were difficult to assign to \"profit centres\".\n\nThe approach of the VMM is to start by developing a framework of values, including costs, risks, tangible returns and intangible returns, then assign scores to each element in the framework. Once the relative scores of the different types of values are assigned and agreed, it becomes possible to examine alternatives and give yes/no decisions in a fairly objective and repeatable manner, and review progress using a range of traditional quantitative program management techniques. As well as allowing comparison of different values within a project, the quantitative approach of the VMM permits review of the total contribution to a particular value across a range of projects.\n\nVMM was developed by the General Services Administration's (GSA) Office of Government-wide Policy (OGP) in collaboration with Harvard University. The VMM was first articulated in a report by Booz Allen Hamilton in 2002 for the US Social Security Administration, as part of an electronic services project.\n\nIt was popularized by a suite of documents released by the US Federal Chief Information Officers Council in 2003, which give detailed guidance to agencies helping them to seek funding and plan budgets for their proposals, analyze their investments for values across their portfolio of initiatives, and track both tangible and intangible returns over time, with a particular emphasis on information technology investments and the production of \"OMB-300\" exhibits for the US Office of Management and Budget. The introductory document was given the significant title \"It's Not Just Return on Investment Anymore\".\n\nThe suite of documents from the US CIO Council include the following, which are readily adapted for other countries and non-government organizations:\nEach of the four major steps of the VMM process has tasks and outputs. The breakdown below, and the description of major value factors, is based primarily on the suite of VMM documents from the US Federal Chief Information Officers Council in 2003.\n\n\nForcing the development of the decision framework, with the assignment of scores to intangibles allowing comparison to other intangibles as well as tangibles, eases the resolution of differences of perspectives between senior managers (e.g. Chief Financial Officer, Risk Manager, and the proposer of the initiative), allows changes to the scores to flow through to the rest of the process (especially the analysis of alternatives), and provides clarity of benefits to a board (before, during, and after the initiative), and clarity of priorities to people looking after more detailed aspects of the initiative. The same transparency of values apply if the proposal is developed at an enterprise level, or within a lesser organizational unit.\n\nMajor value factors (from which the value hierarchy is developed) include the following\n\n\n\n\nA holistic approach to Capital Investment Planning (CIP), using the portfolio approach, requires a significant amount of supporting documentation. The VMM approach can provide planning data and performance assessment criteria for the following:\n\n\nIn particular, VMM allows quantitative reporting of commitments to particular intangibles across a number of initiatives, even when they differ by their stage in their lifecycles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438677", "title": "Veterans' benefits", "text": "Veterans' benefits\n\nThroughout history war veterans have received compensation. Roman soldiers were given rewards at the end of their service including cash or land (\"praemia\"). Augustus fixed the amount in AD 5 at 3000 denarii and by the time of Caracalla it had risen to 5000 denarii.\n\nThe US Department of Veterans Affairs provides a wide variety of benefits, e.g., educational assistance (GI Bill), healthcare, assisted living, home loans, insurance, and burial and memorial services, for retired or separated United States armed forces personnel, their dependents, and survivors. The VA provides compensation to disabled veterans who suffer from a medical disorder or injury that was incurred in, or aggravated by, their military service, and which causes social and occupational impairment. Many U.S. states also offer disability benefits for veterans.\n\nArchival record of the benefits awarded to injured soldiers and veterans of the American Civil War began after 1865. Union soldiers received a more committed pension archival effort on the part of the Federal government, thanks to superior databases in the North and a more stable bureaucratic oversight. Turmoil during Reconstruction in the war-weary South made any effort at maintaining pension records difficult if not impossible. Later university-led research projects would give insight into the history of pension provisions by the Federal government leading up to the Civil War. These analysis shed light on the ever-changing role of compensation in American society and delved into the idea that American Revolutionary War soldiers received superior care after war than later Civil War veterans.\n\nIn 1932 veterans from the First World War marched on Washington as the Bonus Army, also known as the Bonus Expeditionary Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1650227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650227", "title": "Wage labour", "text": "Wage labour\n\nWage labour (also wage labor in American English) is the socioeconomic relationship between a worker and an employer, where the worker sells his or her labour under a formal or informal employment contract. These transactions usually occur in a labour market where wages are market determined. In exchange for the wages paid, the work product generally becomes the undifferentiated property of the employer, except for special cases such as the vesting of intellectual property patents in the United States where patent rights are usually vested in the employee personally responsible for the invention. A wage labourer is a person whose primary means of income is from the selling of his or her labour in this way.\n\nIn modern mixed economies such as those of the OECD countries, it is currently the most common form of work arrangement. Although most labour is organised as per this structure, the wage work arrangements of CEOs, professional employees, and professional contract workers are sometimes conflated with class assignments, so that \"wage labour\" is considered to apply only to unskilled, semi-skilled or manual labour. Various studies have shown that employees generally spend 1.5 to 3 hours a day on non-work related activities.\n\nThe most common form of wage labour currently is ordinary direct, or \"full-time\". This is employment in which a free worker sells his or her labour for an indeterminate time (from a few years to the entire career of the worker), in return for a money-wage or salary and a continuing relationship with the employer which it does not in general offer contractors or other irregular staff. However, wage labour takes many other forms, and explicit as opposed to implicit (i.e. conditioned by local labour and tax law) contracts are not uncommon. Economic history shows a great variety of ways, in which labour is traded and exchanged. The differences show up in the form of:\n\nWage labour has long been compared to slavery by socialists. As a result, the term \"wage slavery\" is often utilised as a pejorative for wage labour. Similarly, advocates of slavery looked upon the \"comparative evils of Slave Society and of Free Society, of slavery to human Masters and slavery to Capital,\" and proceeded to argue persuasively that wage slavery was actually \"worse\" than chattel slavery. Slavery apologists like George Fitzhugh contended that workers only accepted wage labour with the passage of time, as they became \"familiarized and inattentive to the infected social atmosphere they continually inhale[d].\"\nAccording to Noam Chomsky, analysis of the psychological implications of wage slavery goes back to the Enlightenment era. In his 1791 book \"On the Limits of State Action\", classical liberal thinker Wilhelm von Humboldt explained how \"whatever does not spring from a man's free choice, or is only the result of instruction and guidance, does not enter into his very nature; he does not perform it with truly human energies, but merely with mechanical exactness\" and so when the labourer works under external control, \"we may admire what he does, but we despise what he is.\" Both the Milgram and Stanford experiments have been found useful in the psychological study of wage-based workplace relations. Additionally, as per anthropologist David Graeber, the earliest wage labour contracts we know about were in fact contracts for the rental of chattel slaves (usually the owner would receive a share of the money, and the slave, another, with which to maintain his or her living expenses.) Such arrangements, according to Graeber, were quite common in New World slavery as well, whether in the United States or Brazil. C. L. R. James argued in \"The Black Jacobins\" that most of the techniques of human organisation employed on factory workers during the industrial revolution were first developed on slave plantations.\n\nFor Marxists, labour-as-commodity, which is how they regard wage labour, provides a fundamental point of attack against capitalism. \"It can be persuasively argued,\" noted one concerned philosopher, \"that the conception of the worker's labour as a commodity confirms Marx's stigmatisation of the wage system of private capitalism as 'wage-slavery;' that is, as an instrument of the capitalist's for reducing the worker's condition to that of a slave, if not below it.\" That this objection is fundamental follows immediately from Marx's conclusion that wage labour is the very foundation of capitalism: \"Without a \"class dependent on wages\", the moment individuals confront each other as free persons, there can be no production of surplus value; without the production of surplus-value there can be no capitalist production, and hence no capital and no capitalist!\"\n\n\n"}
