{"id": "4308572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4308572", "title": "Abuse of power", "text": "Abuse of power\n\nAbuse of power, in the form of \"malfeasance in office\" or \"official misconduct,\" is the commission of an unlawful act, done in an official capacity, which affects the performance of official duties. Malfeasance in office is often grounds for a for cause removal of an elected official by statute or recall election. Abuse of power can also mean a person using the power they have for their own personal gain.\n\nInstitutional abuse is the maltreatment of a person (often children or older adults) by a system of power. This can range from acts similar to home-based child abuse, such as neglect, physical and sexual abuse, to the effects of assistance programs working below acceptable service standards, or relying on harsh or unfair ways to modify behavior.\n\nIn February 2010, Judge John Leonardo found that Arpaio \"misused the power of his office to target members of the Board of Supervisors for criminal investigation\".\n\nIn 2008, a federal grand jury began an inquiry of Arpaio for abuse of power, in connection with an FBI investigation. On August 31, 2012, the Arizona US Attorney's office announced that it was \"closing its investigation into allegations of criminal conduct\" by Arpaio, without filing charges.\n\nArpaio was investigated for politically motivated and \"bogus\" prosecutions, which a former US Attorney called \"utterly unacceptable\". Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon has called Arpaio's \"long list\" of questionable prosecutions \"a reign of terror\".\n\nFa Zheng, a Chinese man, was appointed as the Administrator (太守) of Shu commandery (蜀郡) and \"General Who Spreads Martial Might\" (揚武將軍) by Liu Bei. He oversaw administrative affairs in the vicinity of Yi Province's capital Chengdu and served as Liu Bei's chief adviser.\n\nDuring this period of time, he abused his power by taking personal revenge against those who offended him before and killing them without reason. Some officials approached Zhuge Liang, another of Liu Bei's key advisers, and urged him to report Fa Zheng's lawless behaviour to their lord and take action against him. However, Zhuge Liang replied, \"When our lord was in Gong'an (公安), he was wary of Cao Cao's influence in the north and fearful of Sun Quan's presence in the east. Even in home territory he was afraid that Lady Sun might stir up trouble. He was in such a difficult situation at the time that he could neither advance nor retreat. Fa Xiaozhi supported and helped him so much, such that he is now able to fly high and no longer remain under others' influence. How can we stop Fa Zheng from behaving as he wishes?\" Zhuge Liang was aware that Liu Bei favoured and trusted Fa Zheng, which was why he refused to intervene in this matter.\n\nIn dictatorial, corrupt, or weak states, police officers may carry out many criminal acts for the ruling regime with impunity.\n\nIndividual officers, or sometimes whole units, can be corrupt or carry out various forms of police misconduct; this occasionally happens in many forces, but can be more common where police pay is very low unless supplemented by bribes. Police officers sometimes act with unwarranted brutality when they overreact to confrontational situations, to extract a confession from a person they may or may not genuinely suspect of being guilty, or in other circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "293961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293961", "title": "Aleph number", "text": "Aleph number\n\nIn mathematics, and in particular set theory, the aleph numbers are a sequence of numbers used to represent the cardinality (or size) of infinite sets that can be well-ordered. They are named after the symbol used to denote them, the Hebrew letter aleph (formula_1) (though in older mathematics books the letter aleph is often printed upside down by accident, partly because a Monotype matrix for aleph was mistakenly constructed the wrong way up).\n\nThe cardinality of the natural numbers is formula_2 (read \"aleph-naught\" or \"aleph-zero\"; the German term \"aleph-null\" is also sometimes used), the next larger cardinality is aleph-one formula_3, then formula_4 and so on. Continuing in this manner, it is possible to define a cardinal number formula_5 for every ordinal number α, as described below.\n\nThe concept and notation are due to Georg Cantor, who defined the notion of cardinality and realized that infinite sets can have different cardinalities.\n\nThe aleph numbers differ from the infinity (∞) commonly found in algebra and calculus. Alephs measure the sizes of sets; infinity, on the other hand, is commonly defined as an extreme limit of the real number line (applied to a function or sequence that \"diverges to infinity\" or \"increases without bound\"), or an extreme point of the extended real number line.\n\nformula_2 (aleph-naught, also aleph-zero or the German term Aleph-null) is the cardinality of the set of all natural numbers, and is an infinite cardinal. The set of all finite ordinals, called ω or ω (where ω is the lowercase Greek letter omega), has cardinality formula_2. A set has cardinality formula_2 if and only if it is countably infinite, that is, there is a bijection (one-to-one correspondence) between it and the natural numbers. Examples of such sets are\n\n\nThese infinite ordinals: ω, ω+1, ω·2, ω, ω and ε are among the countably infinite sets. For example, the sequence (with ordinality ω·2) of all positive odd integers followed by all positive even integers\n\nis an ordering of the set (with cardinality formula_2) of positive integers.\n\nIf the axiom of countable choice (a weaker version of the axiom of choice) holds, then formula_2 is smaller than any other infinite cardinal.\n\nformula_3 is the cardinality of the set of all countable ordinal numbers, called ω or sometimes Ω. This ω is itself an ordinal number larger than all countable ones, so it is an uncountable set. Therefore, formula_3 is distinct from formula_2. The definition of formula_3 implies (in ZF, Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory \"without\" the axiom of choice) that no cardinal number is between formula_2 and formula_3. If the axiom of choice is used, it can be further proved that the class of cardinal numbers is totally ordered, and thus formula_3 is the second-smallest infinite cardinal number. Using the axiom of choice we can show one of the most useful properties of the set ω: any countable subset of ω has an upper bound in ω. (This follows from the fact that the union of a countable number of countable sets is itself countable, one of the most common applications of the axiom of choice.) This fact is analogous to the situation in formula_2: every finite set of natural numbers has a maximum which is also a natural number, and finite unions of finite sets are finite.\n\nω is actually a useful concept, if somewhat exotic-sounding. An example application is \"closing\" with respect to countable operations; e.g., trying to explicitly describe the σ-algebra generated by an arbitrary collection of subsets (see e. g. Borel hierarchy). This is harder than most explicit descriptions of \"generation\" in algebra (vector spaces, groups, etc.) because in those cases we only have to close with respect to finite operations—sums, products, and the like. The process involves defining, for each countable ordinal, via transfinite induction, a set by \"throwing in\" all possible countable unions and complements, and taking the union of all that over all of ω.\n\nEvery uncountable coanalytic subset of a Polish space formula_19 has\ncardinality formula_3 or formula_21.\n\nThe cardinality of the set of real numbers (cardinality of the continuum) is formula_21. It cannot be determined from ZFC (Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice) where this number fits exactly in the aleph number hierarchy, but it follows from ZFC that the continuum hypothesis, CH, is equivalent to the identity\n\nThe CH states that there is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and the real numbers. CH is independent of ZFC: it can be neither proven nor disproven within the context of that axiom system (provided that ZFC is consistent). That CH is consistent with ZFC was demonstrated by Kurt Gödel in 1940 when he showed that its negation is not a theorem of ZFC. That it is independent of ZFC was demonstrated by Paul Cohen in 1963 when he showed, conversely, that the CH itself is not a theorem of ZFC by the (then novel) method of forcing. \n\nConventionally the smallest infinite ordinal is denoted ω, and the cardinal number formula_23 is the least upper bound of\n\namong alephs.\n\nAleph-ω is the first uncountable cardinal number that can be demonstrated within Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory \"not\" to be equal to the cardinality of the set of all real numbers; for any positive integer \"n\" we can consistently assume that formula_24, and moreover it is possible to assume formula_21 is as large as we like. We are only forced to avoid setting it to certain special cardinals with cofinality formula_2, meaning there is an unbounded function from formula_2 to it (see Easton's theorem).\n\nTo define formula_5 for arbitrary ordinal number formula_29, we must define the successor cardinal operation, which assigns to any cardinal number ρ the next larger well-ordered cardinal ρ (if the axiom of choice holds, this is the next larger cardinal).\n\nWe can then define the aleph numbers as follows:\n\nand for λ, an infinite limit ordinal,\n\nThe α-th infinite initial ordinal is written formula_30. Its cardinality is written formula_5.\nIn ZFC, the aleph function formula_1 is a bijection from the ordinals to the infinite cardinals.\n\nFor any ordinal α we have\nIn many cases formula_33 is strictly greater than α. For example, for any successor ordinal α this holds. There are, however, some limit ordinals which are fixed points of the omega function, because of the fixed-point lemma for normal functions. The first such is the limit of the sequence\n\nAny weakly inaccessible cardinal is also a fixed point of the aleph function. This can be shown in ZFC as follows. Suppose formula_34 is a weakly inaccessible cardinal. If formula_35 were a successor ordinal, then formula_36 would be a successor cardinal and hence not weakly inaccessible. If formula_35 were a limit ordinal less than formula_38, then its cofinality (and thus the cofinality of formula_36) would be less than formula_40 and so formula_40 would not be regular and thus not weakly inaccessible. Thus formula_42 and consequently formula_43 which makes it a fixed point.\n\nThe cardinality of any infinite ordinal number is an aleph number. Every aleph is the cardinality of some ordinal. The least of these is its initial ordinal. Any set whose cardinality is an aleph is equinumerous with an ordinal and is thus well-orderable.\n\nEach finite set is well-orderable, but does not have an aleph as its cardinality.\n\nThe assumption that the cardinality of each infinite set is an aleph number is equivalent over ZF to the existence of a well-ordering of every set, which in turn is equivalent to the axiom of choice. ZFC set theory, which includes the axiom of choice, implies that every infinite set has an aleph number as its cardinality (i.e. is equinumerous with its initial ordinal), and thus the initial ordinals of the aleph numbers serve as a class of representatives for all possible infinite cardinal numbers.\n\nWhen cardinality is studied in ZF without the axiom of choice, it is no longer possible to prove that each infinite set has some aleph number as its cardinality; the sets whose cardinality is an aleph number are exactly the infinite sets that can be well-ordered. The method of Scott's trick is sometimes used as an alternative way to construct representatives for cardinal numbers in the setting of ZF. For example, one can define card(\"S\") to be the set of sets with the same cardinality as \"S\" of minimum possible rank. This has the property that card(\"S\") = card(\"T\") if and only if \"S\" and \"T\" have the same cardinality. (The set card(\"S\") does not have the same cardinality of \"S\" in general, but all its elements do.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444120", "title": "Approach-avoidance conflict", "text": "Approach-avoidance conflict\n\nApproach-avoidance conflicts as elements of stress were first introduced by psychologist Kurt Lewin, one of the founders of modern social psychology.\n\nApproach-avoidance conflicts occur when there is one goal or event that has both positive and negative effects or characteristics that make the goal appealing and unappealing simultaneously. For example, marriage is a momentous decision that has both positive and negative aspects. The positive aspects, or approach portion, of marriage might be considered togetherness, sharing memories, and companionship while the negative aspects, or avoidance portions, might include financial considerations, arguments, and difficulty with in-laws. The negative effects of the decision help influence the decision maker to avoid the goal or event, while the positive effects influence the decision maker to want to approach or proceed with the goal or event. The influence of the negative and positive aspects create a conflict because the decision maker has to either proceed toward the goal or avoid the goal altogether. For example, the decision maker might approach proposing to a partner with excitement because of the positive aspects of marriage. On the other hand, he or she might avoid proposing due to the negative aspects of marriage.\n\nThe decision maker might initiate approach toward the goal, but as awareness of the negative factors increases, the desire to avoid the goal may arise, producing indecision. If there are competing feelings to a goal, the stronger of the two will triumph. For instance, if a person was thinking of starting a business they would be faced with positive and negative aspects. Before actually starting the business, the person would be excited about the prospects of success for the new business and they would encounter (approach) the positive aspects first: they would attract investors, create interest in their upcoming ideas and it would be a new challenge. However, as they drew closer to actually launching the business, the negative aspects would become more apparent; the person would acknowledge that it would require much effort, time, and energy from other aspects of their life. The increase in strength of these negative aspects (avoidance) would cause them to avoid the conflict or goal of starting the new business, which might result in indecision. Research pertaining to approach and avoidance conflicts has been extended into implicit motives, both abstract and social in nature.\n"}
{"id": "6491886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6491886", "title": "Atheism in Hinduism", "text": "Atheism in Hinduism\n\nAtheism (Sanskrit: , , lit. \"statement of no Lord\", \"doctrine of godlessness\") or disbelief in God or gods has been a historically propounded viewpoint in many of the orthodox and heterodox streams of Hindu philosophies. In Indian philosophy, three schools of thought are commonly referred to as \"nastika\" for rejecting the doctrine of Vedas: Jainism, Buddhism and Cārvāka.\n\nHinduism is a religion, but also a philosophy. Among the various schools of Hindu philosophy, Samkhya, Yoga and Mimamsa while not rejecting either the Vedas or the Brahman, typically reject a personal God, creator God, or a God with attributes. While Samkhya and Yoga rejected the idea of an eternal, self-caused, creator God, Mimamsa argued that the Vedas could not have been authored by a deity.\n\nThough some schools of thought view the path of the atheist as difficult to follow in matters of spirituality, it is still a valid one.\n\nThe Sanskrit term ' (\"pious, orthodox\") refers to the systems of thought which admit the validity of the Vedas. Sanskrit ' means \"there is\", and ' (per Pāṇini 4.2.60) derives from the verb, meaning \"one who says '\". Technically, in Hindu philosophy the term refers only to acceptance of authority of Vedas, not belief in the existence of God. However, though not accepted universally, ' is sometimes translated as \"theist\" and ' as \"atheist\", assuming the rejection of Vedas to be synonymous to the rejection of God.\n\nAnother interpretation by Swami Vivekananda states \"As certain religions of the world say that a man who does not believe in a Personal God outside of himself is an atheist, so the Vedanta says, a man who does not believe in himself is an atheist. Not believing in the glory of our own soul is what the Vedanta calls atheism.\"\n\nThe Rig Veda, the oldest of the Vedas, deals with significant skepticism around the fundamental question of a creator God and the creation of the universe. It does not, at many instances, categorically accept the existence of a creator God. Nasadiya Sukta (\"Creation Hymn\") in the tenth chapter of the Rig Veda states:\n\nThe Brihadaranyaka, Isha, Mundaka (in which Brahman is everything and \"no-thing\") and especially the Chandogya Upanishads have also been interpreted as atheistic because of their stress on the subjective self.\n\nMimamsa was a realistic, pluralistic school of philosophy which was concerned with the exegesis of the Vedas. The core text of the school was the Purva Mimamsa Sutras of Jaimini (c. 200 BCE–200 CE). Mimamsa philosophers believed that the revelation of the Vedas was sacred, authorless (\"apaurusheyatva\") and infallible, and that it was essential to preserve the sanctity of the Vedic ritual to maintain dharma (cosmic order). As a consequence of the belief in sanctity of the ritual, Mimamsas rejected the notion of God in any form. Later commentators of the Mimamsa sutras such as Prabhākara (c. 7th century CE) advanced arguments against the existence of God. The early Mimamsa not only did not accept God but said that human action itself was enough to create the necessary circumstances for the enjoyment of its fruits.\n\nSamkhya is an atheistic and strongly dualistic orthodox (Astika) school of Indian philosophy. The earliest surviving authoritative text on classical Samkhya philosophy is the Samkhyakarika (c. 350–450 CE) of Iśvarakṛṣṇa. The Samkhyakarika is silent on the issue of Isvara's existence or nonexistence, although first millennium commentators such as Gaudapada understand the text as compatible with some concept of God. However, the Samkhya Sutra (14th c. CE) and its commentaries explicitly attempt to disprove God's existence through reasoned argument.\n\nCārvāka, a materialistic and atheistic school of Indian philosophy, had developed a systematic philosophy by the 6th century CE. Cārvākas rejected metaphysical concepts like reincarnation, the afterlife, an extracorporeal soul, the efficacy of religious rites, other worlds (heaven and hell), fate, and accumulation of merit or demerit through the performance of certain actions. Cārvākas also refused to ascribe supernatural causes to natural phenomena. Cārvāka philosophy appears to have died out some time after 1200 CE.\n\nĀjīvikas was a movement (extinct from at least the 13th century CE) whose founder, Makkhali Gosala, was a contemporary of Mahavira and Gautama Buddha (the central figures of Jainism and Buddhism, respectively). Gosala and his followers also denied the existence of a creator god.\n\nMimamsas argued that there was no need to postulate a maker for the world, just as there was no need for an author to compose the Vedas or a God to validate the rituals. They further thought that the Gods named in the Vedas had no physical existence apart from the \"mantras\" that speak their names. In this regard, the power of the mantras was what was seen as the power of Gods. Mimamsas reasoned that an incorporeal God could not author the Vedas, for he would not have the organs of speech to utter words. An embodied God could not author the Vedas either because such a God would be subject to the natural limitations of sensory knowledge and therefore, would not be able to produce supernatural revelations like the Vedas.\n\nSamkhya gave the following arguments against the idea of an eternal, self-caused, creator God:\nTherefore, Samkhya maintained not only that the various cosmological, ontological and teleological arguments could not prove God, but that God as normally understood--an omnipotent, omniscient, benevolent creator who is free from suffering--cannot exist.\n\nThe Indian Nobel Prize-winner Amartya Sen, in an interview with Pranab Bardhan for the \"California Magazine\" published in the July–August 2006 edition by the University of California, Berkeley states:\nAccording to Markandey Katju, former Chairman of the Press Council of India and former judge of the Supreme Court of India, \"...there are six classical systems of Indian philosophy, Nyaya, Vaisheshik, Sankya, Yoga, Purva Mimansa and Uttar Mimansa, and three non-classical systems, Buddhism, Jainism and Charvak. Out of these nine systems eight of them are atheistic as there is no place for God in them. Only the ninth one, that is Uttar Mimansa, which is also called Vedanta, has a place for God in it.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30775956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30775956", "title": "Beot", "text": "Beot\n\nA bēot is Old English for a ritualized boast, vow, threat, or promise. The principle of a \"bēot\" is to proclaim one's acceptance of a seemingly impossible challenge in order to gain tremendous glory for actually accomplishing it.\n\nAnglo-Saxon warriors would usually deliver \"bēot\"s in the mead hall the night before a military engagement or during the battle itself. For example, a typical warrior may boast that he will be the first to strike a blow in a battle, that he would claim a renowned sword from an enemy warrior as spoil of battle, that he will slay a particular monster that has been wreaking havoc on a town or village, and so on. \"Bēot\"s were usually accompanied by grand stories of one's past glorious deeds. Although other cultures and times might disdain boasting as a sign of arrogance, or sinful pride, the pagan Anglo-Saxons highly regarded such behavior as a positive sign of one's determination, bravery, and character.\n\nExamples of the \"bēot\" can be seen throughout the epic poem \"Beowulf\", such as when Beowulf vows to fight Grendel without using any weapons or armor.\n\nThe Old English word \"bēot\" comes from earlier \"bíhát\" meaning ‘promise’. The original noun-form of \"bēot\" corresponds to the verb \"bi-\", \"be-ˈhátan\". A shifting of the stress from \"bíhát\" to \"bi-ˈhát\", on analogy of the verb, gave the late Old English \"beˈhát\", from which the Middle English word \"behote\" derives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10323603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323603", "title": "Bloc 8406", "text": "Bloc 8406\n\nBloc 8406 () is a small unified coalition of political groups in Vietnam that advocates for democratic reforms in Vietnam. It is named after the date of the group's Manifesto on Freedom and Democracy for Vietnam 2006 () declaring the need for democratic reforms in Vietnam. The manifesto was issued on 8 April 2006 and was signed by 118 dissidents calling for a multiparty state. The support later grew into the thousands.\n\nRoman Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly was sentenced to eight years in prison on March 30, 2007 for his support of the group's manifesto. He was released in 2011, but then he was returned to prison that same year. \n\nLawyer and labor activist Tran Quoc Hien was accused of being a part of Bloc 8406 in his 2007 trial that led to a five-year prison sentence for \"endangering state security\". He also posted articles critical to the government online, such as \"The Tail\", a description of life under government surveillance.\n\nFormer Communist Party official Vi Duc Hoi joined the Bloc after leaving the party in 2007. He was imprisoned in 2011 for \"spreading anti-government propaganda\" after posting copies of pro-democracy articles online.\n\n"}
{"id": "35924651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35924651", "title": "Bowman–Heidenhain hypothesis", "text": "Bowman–Heidenhain hypothesis\n\nThe Bowman–Heidenhain hypothesis is an early explanation of renal function and urinary secretion. \n\nThe hypothesis states that the kidney is first and foremost a secreting gland. According to the theory, glomeruli are merely filters, while the tubules are the true secretory structures. To prove his hypothesis, Rudolph Heidenhain injected methylene blue into an animal's bloodstream, which soon appeared in the urine. More evident proof of this theory is that when the tubules are destroyed, urine becomes watery and urea and other toxic products remain in the blood. \n\nThis theory was later merged with the Ludwig theory to form the modern theory.\n"}
{"id": "2645238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645238", "title": "Central pattern generator", "text": "Central pattern generator\n\nCentral pattern generators (CPGs) are biological neural circuits that produce rhythmic outputs in the absence of rhythmic input. They are the source of the tightly-coupled patterns of neural activity that drive rhythmic motions like walking, breathing, or chewing. The ability to function without input from higher brain areas still requires modulatory inputs, and their outputs are not fixed. Flexibility in response to sensory input is a fundamental quality of CPG driven behavior. To be classified as a rhythmic generator, a CPG requires:\n\nCPGs have been found in practically all vertebrate species investigated, including human.\n\nVarious molecular, genetic and imaging studies have been conducted as for the localization of the CPGs. The results have shown that the networks responsible for locomotion are distributed throughout the lower thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cord. Rhythmic movements of the tongue, that participate in swallowing, mastication and respiration, are driven by hypoglossal nuclei, which receive inputs from the dorsal medullary reticular column (DMRC) and the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS). The hypoglossal nucleus receives rhythmic excitatory inputs also from brainstem respiratory neurons within the pre-Boetzinger complex, which appears to play an important role in the origin of respiration rhythmogenesis.\n\nAlthough anatomical details of CPGs are specifically known in only a few cases, they have been shown to originate from the spinal cords of various vertebrates and to depend on relatively small and autonomous neural networks (rather than the entire nervous system) to generate rhythmic patterns. Many studies have been done to determine the neural substrate of locomotor CPGs in mammals. Neural rhythmicity can arise in two ways: \"through interactions among neurons (network-based rhythmicity) or through interactions among currents in individual neurons (endogenous oscillator neurons)\". A key to understanding rhythm generation is the concept of a half-center oscillator (HCO). A half-center oscillator consists of two neurons that have no rhythmogenic ability individually, but produce rhythmic outputs when reciprocally coupled. Half-center oscillators can function in a variety of ways. First, the two neurons may not necessarily fire in antiphase and can fire in any relative phasing, even synchrony, depending on the synaptic release. Second, half-centers can also function in an \"escape\" mode or a \"release\" mode. Escape and release refer to the way the off-neuron turns on: by escape or release from inhibition. Half-center oscillators can also be altered by intrinsic and network properties and can have dramatically different functionality based on variations in synaptic properties.\n\nThe classical view of CPGs, as specific networks of neurons dedicated to this function alone, has been challenged by numerous data obtained mostly on the central nervous system of invertebrates. In addition to be classical dedicated networks, most of the CPGs seem in fact to be either reorganizing or distributed circuits, and a single neural circuit can combine features typical of each of these architectures. The observation in invertebrates of pattern generators temporarily formed before the production of motor activity strengthens the assumption. CPG circuits appear thus to have a flexible character.\n\nOrganisms must adapt their behavior to meet the needs of their internal and external environments. Central pattern generators, as part of the neural circuitry of an organism, can be modulated to adapt to the organism's needs and surroundings. Three roles of neuromodulation have been found for CPG circuits:\n\nFor example, the \"Tritonia diomedea\" swimming CPG can produce reflexive withdrawal in response to weak sensory input, escape swimming in response to strong sensory input and crawling after escape swimming has ceased. The dorsal swim interneurons (DSIs) of the swim CPGs not only cause the rhythmic escape swimming, but also connect to cilia-activating efferent neurons. Experimental evidence confirms that both behaviors are mediated by the DSIs. \"Given the extreme differences between these behaviors—-rhythmic versus tonic, muscular versus ciliary, and brief versus prolonged—these findings reveal a striking versatility for a small multifunctional network.\" \"Part of this flexibility is caused by the release of serotonin from the DSIs, which causes cerebral cell 2 (C2) to release more transmitter and strengthen its network synapses. Application of serotonergic antagonists prevents the network from producing the swimming pattern, and hence this intranetwork modulation appears essential for network oscillation.\"\n\nData from experiments by Harris-Warrick in 1991 and Hooper and Marder in 1987 suggest that the functional target of modulation is the entire CPG network. These phenomena were first observed through experiments with the neuromodulator in the lobster cardiac ganglion (Sullivan and Miller 1984). The effect of proctolin could not be understood by looking only at the neurons it directly affected. \"Instead, neurons that are not directly affected both alter the response of the directly affected neurons and help to transmit the changes in the activity of these neurons throughout the network,\" allowing the entire network to change in consistent and synchronized way. Harris-Warrick and colleagues have conducted many studies over the years of the effects of neuromodulators on CPG neural networks. For example, a 1998 study showed the distributed nature of neuromodulation and that neuromodulators can reconfigure a motor network to allow a family of related movements. Specifically, dopamine was shown to affect both individual neurons, and synapses between neurons. Dopamine strengthens some synapses and weakens others by acting pre- and post-synaptically throughout the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion. These responses, as well as other effects of dopamine, can be opposite in sign in different locations, showing that the sum of the effects is the overall network effect and can cause the CPG to produce related families of different motor outputs.\n\nA single neuronal network, such as a central pattern generator, can be modulated moment-to-moment to produce several different physical actions depending on the needs of the animal. These were first coined \"polymorphic networks\" by Getting and Dekin in 1985. An example of one such polymorphic central pattern generator is a multifunctional network of the mollusk \"Tritonia diomedea\". As described by Hooper, weak sensory input to the swimming CPG produces reflexive withdrawal, while strong input produces swimming. The dorsal swim interneurons (DSIs) of the circuit release serotonin to convert to \"swim mode,\" while application of serotonergic antagonists prevents the swim pattern. Additionally, the same single interneuronal network has been found to produce not only \"rhythmic, muscle-based escape swimming,\" but also \"nonrhythmic, cilia-mediated crawling.\" Evidence also suggests that although the CPG controls related but separate functions, neuromodulation of one function can occur without affecting the other. For example, the swim mode can be sensitized by serotonin without affecting the crawl mode. Thus, the CPG circuit can control many separate functions with the appropriate neuromodulation.\n\nAlthough the theory of central pattern generation calls for basic rhythmicity and patterning to be centrally generated, CPGs can respond to sensory feedback to alter the patterning in behaviorally appropriate ways. Alteration of the pattern is difficult because feedback received during only one phase may require changed movement in the other parts of the patterned cycle to preserve certain coordination relationships. For example, walking with a pebble in the right shoe alters the entire gait, even though the stimulus is only present while standing on the right foot. Even during the time when the left foot is down and the sensory feedback is inactive, action is taken to prolong the right leg swing and extend the time on the left foot, leading to limping. This effect could be due to widespread and long-lasting effects of the sensory feedback on the CPG or due to short-term effects on a few neurons that in turn modulate nearby neurons and spread the feedback through the entire CPG in that way. Some degree of modulation is required to allow one CPG to assume multiple states in response to feedback.\n\nAdditionally, the effect of the sensory input varies depending on the phase of the pattern in which it occurs. For example, during walking, resistance to the top of the swinging foot (e.g., by a horizontal stick) causes the foot to be lifted higher to move over the stick. However, the same input to the standing foot cannot cause the foot to lift or the person would collapse. Thus, depending on the phase, the same sensory input can cause the foot to be lifted higher or held more firmly to the ground. \"This change in motor response as a function of motor pattern phase is called reflex reversal, and has been observed in invertebrates (DiCaprio and Clarac, 1981) and vertebrates (Forssberg et al., 1977). How this process occurs is poorly understood, but again two possibilities exist. One is that sensory input is appropriately routed to different CPG neurons as a function of motor pattern phase. The other is that the input reaches the same neurons at all phases, but that, as a consequence of the way in which the network transforms the input, network response varies appropriately as a function of motor pattern phase.\"\n\nA recent study by Gottschall and Nichols studied the hindlimb of a decerebrate cat during walking (a CPG controlled function) in response to changes in head pitch. This study describes the differences in gait and body position of cats walking uphill, downhill and on level surfaces. Proprioceptive (Golgi tendon organs and muscle spindles) and exteroreceptive (optic, vestibular and cutaneous) receptors work alone or in combination to adjust the CPG to sensory feedback. The study explored the effects of neck proprioceptors (giving information about the relative location of the head and body) and vestibular receptors (giving information about the orientation of the head relative to gravity). Decerebrate cats were made to walk on a level surface with their heads level, tilted up or tilted down. Comparing the decerebrate cats to normal cats showed similar EMG patterns during level walking and EMG patterns that reflected downhill walking with the head titled up and uphill walking with the head tilted down. This study proved that neck proprioceptors and vestibular receptors contribute sensory feedback that alters the gait of the animal. This information may be useful for treatment of gait disorders.\n\nCentral pattern generators can serve many functions in vertebrate animals. CPGs can play roles in movement, breathing, rhythm generation and other oscillatory functions. The sections below focus on specific examples of locomotion and rhythm generation, two key functions of CPGs.\n\nAs early as 1911, it was recognized, by the experiments of Thomas Graham Brown, that the basic pattern of stepping can be produced by the spinal cord without the need of descending commands from the cortex.\n\nThe first modern evidence of the central pattern generator was produced by isolating the locust nervous system and showing that it could produce a rhythmic output in isolation resembling that of the locust in flight. This was discovered by Wilson in 1961. Since that time, evidence has arisen for the presence of central pattern generators in vertebrate animals, starting with work on the cat in the 1960s by Elzbieta Jankowska in Gothenburg, who provided the first evidence for a spinal cord CPG. This section addresses the role of the central pattern generator in locomotion for the lamprey and humans.\n\nThe lamprey has been used as a model for vertebrate CPGs because, while its nervous system has a vertebrate organization, it shares many positive characteristics with invertebrates. When removed from the lamprey, the intact spinal cord can survive for days \"in vitro\". It also has very few neurons and can be easily stimulated to produce a fictive swimming motion indicative of a central pattern generator. As early as 1983, Ayers, Carpenter, Currie and Kinch proposed that there was a CPG responsible for most undulating movements in the lamprey including swimming forward and backward, burrowing in the mud and crawling on a solid surface, that although not surprisingly did not match the activity in the intact animal, nevertheless provided the basic locomotor output. The different movements have been found to be altered by neuromodulators, including serotonin in a study by Harris-Warrick and Cohen in 1985 and tachykinin in a study by Parker et al. in 1998. The lamprey model of CPG for locomotion has been important to the study of CPGs. Although Sten Grillner claims that the locomotor network is characterised, a claim that has seemingly been uncritically accepted by the spinal cord locomotor network field, there are in fact many missing details and Grillner cannot provide the evidence he uses to support his claims (Parker 2006). A general scheme of the lamprey CPG is now being used in the creation of artificial CPGs. For example, Ijspeert and Kodjabachian used Ekeberg's model for the lamprey to create artificial CPGs and simulate swimming movements in a lamprey-like substrate using controllers based on a SGOCE encoding. Essentially, these are the first steps toward the use of CPGs to code for locomotion in robots. The vertebrate model of CPG has been also developed with both Hodgkin-Huxley formalism, its variants and control system approaches. For example, Yakovenko and colleagues have developed a simple mathematical model that describes basic principles proposed by T.G. Brown with integrate-to-threshold units organized with mutually inhibitory connections. This model is sufficient to describe complex properties of behavior, such as different regimes of the extensor- and flexor-dominant locomotion observed during electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR), MLR-induced fictive locomotion.\n\nConnections between the CPGs controlling each limb influence the coordination between the limbs and hence the gaits in quadrupedal and possibly also bipedal animals. Left right coordination is mediated by commissural and fore-hind by long-projecting propiospinal interneurons. The balance of the left-right alternation (mediated genetically identified V0d and V0v neuron classes) to left-synchronization promoting commissural interneurons (potentially mediated V3 neurons) determines whether walk and trot (alternating gaits) or gallop and bound (synchronous gaits) are expressed. This balance changes with increasing speed, potentially because of connection from the MLR to commissural interneurons, and causes speed dependent gait transitions characteristic for quadrupedal animals. The walk to trot transition potentially occurs because of the stronger decrease of extension than flexion phase durations with increasing locomotor speed, which leads to progressively increasing overlap between the diagonal limbs up until diagonal synchronization (trot).\n\nCentral pattern generators also contribute to locomotion in higher animals and humans. In 1994, Calancie, et al. claimed to have witnessed the \"first well-defined example of a central rhythm generator for stepping in the adult human.\" The subject was a 37-year-old male who suffered an injury to the cervical spinal cord 17 years prior. After initial total paralysis below the neck, the subject eventually regained some movement of the arms and fingers and limited movement in the lower limbs. He had not recovered sufficiently to support his own weight. After 17 years, the subject found that when lying supine and extending his hips, his lower extremities underwent step-like movements for as long as he remained lying down. \"The movements (i) involved alternating flexion and extension of his hips, knees, and ankles; (ii) were smooth and rhythmic; (iii) were forceful enough that the subject soon became uncomfortable due to excessive muscle 'tightness' and an elevated body temperature; and (iv) could not be stopped by voluntary effort.\" After extensive study of the subject, the experimenters concluded that \"these data represent the clearest evidence to date that such a [CPG] network does exist in man.\" Four years later, in 1998, Dimitrijevic, et al. showed that the human lumbar pattern generating networks can be activated by drive to large-diameter sensory afferents of the posterior roots. When tonic electrical stimulation is applied to these fibers in motor complete spinal cord injured individuals (i.e., individuals in whom the spinal cord is functionally isolated from the brain) rhythmic, locomotor-like movement of the lower limbs can be elicited. These measurements were performed in supine position, thus minimizing peripheral feedback. Subsequent studies showed that these lumbar locomotor centers can form a large variety of rhythmic movements by combining and distributing stereotypical patterns to the numerous lower limb muscles.\n\nIf step cycle durations and muscle activations were fixed, it wouldn't be possible to change body velocity and adapt to varying terrain. It has been suggested that the mammalian locomotor CPG comprises a “timer” (possibly in the form of coupled oscillators) which generates step cycles of varying durations, and a “pattern formation layer,” which selects and grades the activation of motor pools.\nIncreasing the neural drive from the midbrain locomotor region (MLR) to the spinal CPG increases the step cycle frequency (the cadence). Swing and stance phase durations co-vary in a fairly fixed relationship, with stance phases changing more than swing phases.\n\nSensory input from the limbs may truncate or extend individual phase durations in a process akin to finite state control (in which \"if-then” rules determine when state transitions occur). For example, if a limb that is swinging forward reaches the end of swing in less time than the current CPG-generated flexor phase duration, sensory input would cause the CPG timer to terminate swing and start the stance phase. Furthermore, as body velocity increases, the pattern formation layer would increase muscle activation nonlinearly to provide increased load-bearing and thrust forces. It has been posited that in well-predicted movements, CPG-generated phase durations and muscle forces closely match those required by the evolving biomechanical events, minimizing the sensory corrections required. The term ‘‘neuromechanical tuning’’ has been coined to describe this process \n\nFig. 1 provides a simplified schematic that summarizes these proposed mechanisms. A command specifying desired body velocity descends from higher centers to the MLR, which drives the spinal locomotor CPG. The CPG timer produces the appropriate cadence and phase durations and the pattern formation layer modulates the motoneuronal outputs. The activated muscles resist stretch through their own intrinsic biomechanical properties, providing a rapid form of length and velocity feedback control. Reflexes mediated by Golgi tendon organ and other afferents provide additional load compensation, but the main role of sensory input may be to adjust or override the CPG at stance-swing-stance transitions.\n\nAs described in Neuromodulation, the human locomotive CPG is very adaptable and can respond to sensory input. It receives input from the brainstem as well as from the environment to keep the network regulated. Newer studies have not only confirmed the presence of the CPG for human locomotion, but also confirmed its robustness and adaptability. For example, Choi and Bastian showed that the networks responsible for human walking are adaptable on short and long timescales. They showed adaptation to different gait patterns and different walking contexts. Also, they showed that different motor patterns can adapt independently. Adults could even walk on treadmills going in a different direction for each leg. This study showed that independent networks control forward and backward walking and that networks controlling each leg can adapt independently and be trained to walk independently. Thus, humans also possess a central pattern generator for locomotion that is capable not only of rhythmic pattern generation but also remarkable adaptation and usefulness in a wide variety of situations.\n\nA three-phase model is the classical view of the respiratory CPG. The phases of the respiratory CPG are characterized by the rhythmic activity of: (1) the phrenic nerve during inspiration; (2) recurrent laryngeal nerve branches that innervate the thyroarytenoid muscle during the last stage of expiration; (3) the internal intercostal nerve branches that innervate the triangularis sterni muscle during the second stage of expiration. The rhythmicity of these nerves is classically viewed as originating from a single rhythm generator. In this model, phasing is produced by reciprocal synaptic inhibition between groups of sequentially active interneurons.\n\nNevertheless, an alternative model has been proposed reinforced by certain experimental data. According to this model, respiratory rhythm is generated by two coupled anatomically distinct rhythm generators, one in the pre-Boetzinger complex and the other in the retrotrapezoid nucleus / parafacial respiratory group. Further survey provided evidence to the hypothesis that one of the networks is responsible for inspiration rhythm and the other for expiration rhythm. Therefore, inspiration and expiration are distinct functions and one does not induce the other, as is the common belief, but one of two dominates the behavior by generating a faster rhythm.\n\nSwallowing involves the coordinated contraction of more than 25 pairs of muscles in the oropharynx, larynx and esophagus, which are active during an oropharyngeal phase, followed by the primary esophageal peristalsis. Swallowing depends on a CPG located in the medulla oblongata, which involves several brain stem motor nuclei and two main groups of interneurons: a dorsal swallowing group (DSG) in the nucleus tractus solitarii and a ventral swallowing group (VSG) located in the ventrolateral medulla above the nucleus ambiguus. Neurons in the DSG are responsible for the generation of the swallowing pattern, while those in the VSG distribute the commands to the various motoneuronal pools. As in other CPGs, the functioning of the central network can be modulated by peripheral and central inputs, so that the swallowing pattern is adapted to the size of the bolus.\n\nWithin this network, central inhibitory connections play a major role, producing a rostrocaudal inhibition that parallels the rostrocaudal anatomy of the swallowing tract. Thus, when the neurons controlling the proximal parts of the tract are active, those that command more distal parts are inhibited. Apart from the type of connection between the neurons, intrinsic properties of the neurons, especially those of NTS neurons, probably also contribute to the shaping and timing of the swallowing pattern.\n\nThe swallowing CPG is a flexible CPG. This means that at least some of the swallowing neurons may be multifunctional neurons and belong to pools of neurons that are common to several CPGs. One such CPG is the respiratory one, which has been observed interacting with the swallowing CPG.\n\nCentral pattern generators can also play a role in rhythm generation for other functions in vertebrate animals. For example, the rat vibrissa system uses an unconventional CPG for whisking movements. \"Like other CPGs, the whisking generator can operate without cortical input or sensory feedback. However, unlike other CPGs, vibrissa motoneurons actively participate in rhythmogenesis by converting tonic serotonergic inputs into the patterned motor output responsible for movement of the vibrissae.\" Breathing is another non-locomotive function of central pattern generators. For example, larval amphibians accomplish gas exchange largely through rhythmic ventilation of the gills. A study by Broch, et al. showed that lung ventilation in the tadpole brainstem may be driven by a pacemaker-like mechanism, whereas the respiratory CPG adapts in the adult bullfrog as it matures. Thus, CPGs hold a broad range of functions in the vertebrate animal and are widely adaptable and variable with age, environment and behavior.\n\nRhythmicity in CPG's can also result from time-dependent cellular properties such as adaptation, delayed excitation, and post-inhibitory rebound (PIR). PIR is an intrinsic property that elicits rhythmic electrical activity by depolarizing the membrane once hyperpolarizing stimulus is gone. \"It can be produced by several mechanisms including hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) or deinactivation of depolarization-activated inward currents\" Once inhibition has ceased, this period of PIR can be explained as the time with increased neuronal excitability. It is the property of many CNS neurons that sometimes results in action potential \"bursts\" following immediately after inhibitory synaptic input.\"Because of this, it has been suggested that PIR may contribute to the maintenance of oscillatory activity in neural networks that are characterized by mutual inhibitory connections, like those involved in locomotor behaviors. In addition, PIR is often included as an element in computational models of neural networks that involve mutual inhibition\" \nFor example, the \"PIR in crayfish stretch receptor neurons is caused by recovery from adaptation during the course of inhibitory hyperpolarization. One feature of that system is that PIR only occurs if the hyperpolarization is imposed on a background of excitation, caused in this case by stretch. They also found that PIR can be elicited in the stretch receptor by hyperpolarizing current pulses. This was an important finding because it showed that PIR is an intrinsic property of the postsynaptic neuron, related to the membrane potential change associated with inhibition but independent of transmitter receptors or presynaptic properties. The latter conclusion has stood the test of time, marking PIR as a robust property of CNS neurons in a wide variety of contexts.\" \nThis cellular property can most easily be seen in the Lamprey neural circuit. The swimming movement is produced by alternating neural activity between the left and right side of the body, causing it to bend back and forth while creating oscillating movements. While the Lamprey is bent to the left, there is reciprocal inhibition on the right side causing it to relax due to hyperpolarization. Immediately after this hyperopolarizing stimulus, the interneurons use post-inhibitory rebound to initiate activity in the right side. Depolarization of the membrane causes it to contract while reciprocal inhibition is now applied to the left side.\n\nAs described earlier, CPGs can also function in a variety of ways in invertebrate animals. In the mollusc \"Tritonia\", a CPG modulates reflexive withdrawal, escape swimming and crawling. CPGs are also used in flight in locusts and for respiration systems in other insects. Central pattern generators play a broad role in all animals and show amazing variability and adaptability in almost all cases.\n\nThe classical view of movement control prior to works of Brown attributed the function of muscle pattern generation largely to sensory feedback mechanisms. In this light, the pattern generator can be considered as an intrinsic spinal processor that corrects imperfect sensory feedback and adapts central input to this optimized peripheral input.\n\n"}
{"id": "14322444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322444", "title": "Comparative advertising", "text": "Comparative advertising\n\nComparative advertising or advertising war is an advertisement in which a particular product, or service, specifically mentions a competitor by name for the express purpose of showing why the competitor is inferior to the product naming it. Also referred to as \"knocking copy\", it is loosely defined as advertising where “the advertised brand is explicitly compared with one or more competing brands and the comparison is obvious to the audience.”\n\nThis should not be confused with parody advertisements, where a fictional product is being advertised for the purpose of poking fun at the particular advertisement, nor should it be confused with the use of a coined brand name for the purpose of comparing the product without actually naming an actual competitor. (\"Wikipedia tastes better and is less filling than the Encyclopedia Galactica.\")\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) defined comparative advertising as “advertisement that compares alternative brands on objectively measurable attributes or price, and identifies the alternative brand by name, illustration or other distinctive information.” This definition was used in the case Gillette Australia Pty Ltd v Energizer Australia Pty Ltd. Similarly, the Law Council of Australia recently suggested that comparative advertising refers to “advertising which include reference to a competitor’s trademark in a way which does not impute proprietorship in the mark to the advertiser.”\n\nComparative advertisements could be either indirectly or directly comparative, positive or negative, and seeks “to associate or differentiate the two competing brands”. Different countries apply differing views regarding the laws on comparative advertising.\n\nThe earliest court case concerning comparative advertising dates back to 1910 in the United States – Saxlehner v Wagner. Prior to the 1970s, comparative advertising was deemed unfeasible due to related risks. For instance, comparative advertising could invite misidentification of products, potential legal issues, and may even win public sympathy for their competitors as victims.\n\nIn 1972, the FTC began to encourage advertisers to make comparison with named competitors, with the broad, public welfare objective of creating more informative advertising. The FTC argued that this form of advertising could also stimulate comparison shopping, encourage product improvement and innovation, and foster a positive competitive environment. However, studies have shown that while comparative advertisements had increased since 1960, the relative amount of comparative advertising is still small.\n\nPrior to 1997, many European countries severely limited comparative claims as an advertising practice. For example, in Germany comparisons in advertising had since the 1930's been largely prohibited as an anti-competitive practice, with very limited exceptions for cases where the advertiser had a good reason for presenting a critical claim, and reference to a competitor was necessary in order to present that claim. Importantly, this only applied to \"critical\" claims - claims of equivalence were completely prohibited. A similar approach had been adopted in France, where comparative advertising was commonly seen as disparaging of competitors. However, the legalisation of comparative advertising in France in 1992, opened the door to a general legalisation of comparative advertising through EU law, which had first been proposed by the European Commission in 1978. The result was the adoption of Directive 97/55/EC, which came into force in the year 2000. The relevant provisions are now contained in Directive 2006/114/EC.\n\nThis Directive sets out rules that comparative advertising must comply with in order to be considered permissible. These include the requirements that the comparison concern goods and services that meet the same purpose, that it objectively compare the relevant characteristics of the products concerned and that it not cause confusion or denigrate the trademarks and other distinguishing signs of competitors. The Directive prohibits comparisons that take unfair advantage of the reputation of a competitor's distinguishing marks, or present goods or services as imitations of products covered by a protected trade mark or trade name. Additionally, any comparison aimed at promoting goods bearing a protected designation of origin must refer exclusively to other goods bearing the same designation. Directive 2006/114/EC constitutes a total harmonisation of the rules on comparative advertising, meaning that the Member States are neither allowed to permit comparisons that breach the requirements of the Directive, nor prohibit ones that do. \n\nFurther, while trademark rights can in principle be used to prevent comparative advertising that makes unauthorised use of a competitor's trademark, this is not the case where the comparative advertisement complies with all the requirements of Directive 2006/114/EC. Legitimate comparative advertising must therefore be seen as an exception to the exclusive rights of the trademark proprietor. However, the trademark proprietor can, thanks to the prohibition on taking unfair advantage of a trademark's reputation, oppose the use of their trademark where it is not aimed at distinguishing the products of the advertiser and trademark proprietor and to highlight their differences objectively, but rather at riding on the coat-tails of that mark in order to benefit from its reputation.\n\nThe requirements set out by the Directive have resulted in some controversy. This is particularly true of the \"per se\" prohibition on comparisons presenting goods and services as imitations of trademarked products. In this regard, EU law contrasts starkly with the US approach; the US courts have long held that traders are allowed to the trademarked names of products they have imitated in advertising. In contrast, in L'Oréal and others v. Bellure, the Court of Justice held that smell-alike perfumes marketed through comparison lists breached this condition. This decision was criticised both by the English courts and by scholars, who have considered that this places unjustified limits on advertising acts that are otherwise fully legal, such as copying that does not infringe intellectual property rights. \n\nIn the UK, most of the use of competitor’s registered trademark in a comparative advertisement was an infringement of the registration up till the end of 1994. However, the laws on comparative advertising were harmonized in 2000. The current rules on comparative advertising are regulated by a series of EU Directives. The Business Protection from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008 implements provisions of Directive (EC) 2006/114 in the UK.\n\nOne of the classic cases of comparative advertising in the UK was the O2 v Hutchison case. The European Court of Justice (ECJ) held that there could have been a trademark infringement when a comparative advertiser used the registered trademark for the advertiser’s own goods and services. It was also held that a trademark proprietor could not prevent a competitor’s use of a sign similar or identical to his mark in a comparative advertisement, which satisfies all the conditions of the Comparative Advertising Directive. If the Advocate General's decision in the O2 case were followed by the ECJ, competitors will not be able to use trademark legislation either to prevent a comparative advertisement through an injunction or to charge in respect of its use. Conversely, in British Airways plc v Ryanair Ltd. a lenient approach was adopted by the UK courts. The use of competitors’ trademarks was no longer restricted for businesses competing within an industry, provided that compliance of the conditions set out in the legislation were performed. This meant that businesses are able to use the trademarks of other companies and trade names to distinguish the relative merits of their own products and services over those of their competitors.\n\nThe FTC and the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc. (NAD), govern the laws of comparative advertising in the United States including the treatment of comparative advertising claims. FTC stated that comparative advertising could benefit consumers and encourages comparative advertising, provided that the comparisons are “clearly identified, truthful, and non-deceptive”. Although comparative advertising is encouraged, NAD has stated “claims that expressly or implicitly disparage a competing product should be held to the highest level of scrutiny in order to ensure that they are truthful, accurate, and narrowly drawn.” Another major law is the trademark protective Lanham Act, which states that one could incur liability when the message of the comparative advertisement is untrue or uncertain, but has the intention to deceive consumers through the implied message conveyed.\n\nIn Australia, no specific law governs comparative advertising although certain cases regarding this matter have occurred. Comparative advertising that is truthful, and does not lead to confusion is permitted.\n\nGenerally, Australian advertisers should make sure that the following are complied when exercising comparative advertising to avoid breaches regarding misleading advertising under Australia Consumer Law:\n\n\nThe law in Hong Kong regarding comparative advertising is the law that existed in the UK prior to the enactment of the UK Act 1994. Hong Kong has no legislation exclusively intended at limiting false or misleading advertisements. Still, the Trade Descriptions Ordinance (Cap 362) bans the use of false trade descriptions in advertisements. The tort of trade libel also exists to deal with false or misleading advertisements designed to injure the competitor. Consumer Council may have the authority to publish information with a perspective to amending false or misleading advertisements, while the Association of Accredited Advertising Agencies of Hong Kong have the authority to take action against members who organize advertisements that are inaccurate.\n\nIn Argentina, there is no specific statute dealing with comparative advertising (so it is not forbidden), but there are clear jurisprudential rules based on unfair competition law. If in some manner an advertisement is proven to be unfair or exceeds ethical standards by hiding the truth or omitting some essential aspect of the comparison, it is probable that an injunction will be granted and that the plaintiff will be able to obtain a final decision declaring the advertising illegal.\n\nNumerous cases follow international precedent in referring to the requirements of the European Union Directive on comparative advertising. By following these criteria, Argentine courts have developed standards very similar to European regulation. It is as if the judges wanted to validate the law created by the Courts with an external source. Similar conclusions reached elsewhere indicate the existence of universally accepted principles that accept that comparing products in commercial advertisements should be lawful.\n\nIn Brazil, the allow comparative advertising with certain restrictions. Its primary purpose shall be the clarification or consumer’s protection; it shall have as basic principle the objectiveness of the comparison since subjective data, psychological or emotionally based data does not constitute a valid comparison basis for consumers; the purposed or implemented comparison shall be capable of being supported byevidence; in the case of consumption goods, the comparison shall be made with models manufactured in the same year and no comparison shall be made between products manufactured in different years, unless it is only a reference to show evolution, in which case the evolution shall be clearly demonstrated; there shall be no confusion between the products and competitor’s brands; there shall be no unfair competition, denigration of the product’s image or another company’s product; and there shall be no unreasonable use of the corporate image or goodwill of third parties.\n\nLikewise, the majority of the Brazilian authors is inclined to say that its legitimacy depends to meet certain requirements, which, in general, would be stipulated by Article 3a of Directive 84/450/EEC \n\nIn an early Mercosur's rules through Resolution 126/96.\n\nComparative advertising has been increasingly implemented through the years, and the types of comparative advertising range from comparing a single attribute dimension, comparing an attribute unique to the target and absent in the referent and comparisons involving attributes unique to both brands. The contributing factors to the effectiveness of comparative advertising include believability, which refers to the extent a consumer can rely on the information provided in comparative advertisements, the level of involvement, and the convenience in evaluation, provided by spoon feeding the consumer with information that does not require extra effort in recall.\n\nComparative advertising is generally coupled with negativity, as evidenced by early industry condemnation. Stating reasons such as participation in comparative advertising damaged the honour and credibility of advertising. Studies have suggested that negative information can be stored more effectively, thus generating the impact that any advertisement is purposed for, and more importantly, strong recall. On the contrary, such negativity can either be transferred directly to the brand and the consumer’s impression of the brand, various studies through the years have proven that comparative advertising has been responded to negatively.\n\nComparative advertising has been used effectively by companies like The National Australia Bank (NAB), and its “break up” campaign has made such an impact it has won an award from Cannes, and a substantial increase in its consumer interest. Internationally acclaimed Apple Inc. has effectively utilized its Mac vs PC advertisements as part of its marketing efforts to increase its market share over the years. Such companies prove the academic view that comparative advertising is more successful when used by established brands, justified by the credibility and attention an established brand brings. Other famous examples include L’Oreal SA v Bellure NV and Coca Cola v Pepsi. Comparative advertising has to be executed with caution and deep consideration for the targeted markets as the novelty of the concept affects the effectiveness of the stipulated campaigns.\n\nIn the 1980s, during what has been referred to as the cola wars, soft-drink manufacturer Pepsi ran a series of advertisements where people, caught on hidden camera, in a blind taste test, chose Pepsi over rival Coca-Cola.\nThe use of comparative advertising has been well established in political campaigns, where typically one candidate will run ads where the record of the other candidate is displayed, for the purpose of disparaging the other candidate. The most famous of these type ads, which only ran once on TV, consisted of a child picking daisies in a field, while a voice which sounded like Barry Goldwater performed a countdown to zero before the launch of a nuclear weapon which explodes in a mushroom cloud. The ad, \"Daisy\", was produced by Lyndon B. Johnson's campaign in an attempt to prevent Goldwater from either winning the nomination of his party or being selected.\n\nAnother example took place throughout the late 1980s between the bitter rivals Nintendo and Sega. \"Genesis does what Nintendon't\" immediately became a catchphrase following the release of the Sega Genesis (known as Mega Drive in PAL countries).\n\nA 30-second commercial promoting sustainability, showing soda bottles exploding each time a person makes a drink using his Sodastream machine, was banned in the United Kingdom in 2012. Clearcast, the organization that preapproves TV advertising in the U.K., explained that they \"thought it was a denigration of the bottled drinks market.\" The same ad, crafted by Alex Bogusky, ran in the United States, Sweden, Australia, and other countries. An appeal by Sodastream to reverse Clearcast's decision to censor the commercial was rejected. A similar ad was expected to air during Super Bowl XLVII in February 2013 but was banned by CBS for jabbing at Coke and Pepsi (two of CBS's largest sponsors).\n\nIn 2012, Microsoft's Bing (formerly MSN Search) began to run a campaign about which search engine they prefer as it compared Bing to Google, and that more people preferred Bing over Google. The campaign was titled \"Bing It On\".\n"}
{"id": "16278918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278918", "title": "Contraceptive security", "text": "Contraceptive security\n\nContraceptive security (CS) is a situation in which people are able to reliably choose, obtain, and use quality contraceptives for family planning and the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. The term refers primarily to efforts undertaken in developing countries to ensure contraceptive availability as an integral part of family planning programs.\n\nOrganizations, usually government health agencies, work to ensure clients have long-term access to a range of high quality contraceptives and other essential health supplies. A framework and tool, the Strategic Pathway to Reproductive Health Commodity Security (SPARHCS), was developed in 2004 by the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and partners to help countries identify and prioritize key commodity security issues; assess current capacity for commodity security among country or regional programs, systems and policies; and shape commodity security strategic plans. Measures taken to provide contraceptive security may include strengthening contraceptive supply chains, forming CS committees, product quality assurance, promoting supportive policy environments, and examining financing options.\n\nStrengthening commodity security requires routine monitoring of donor and government commitment, policies, stakeholder coordination, and supply chain information. Tools including the CS Indicators and the CS Index offer ways of measuring contraceptive security, and allow comparisons over time and across countries. A recent analysis of 48 countries’ CS Index scores between 2003-2012 indicates that all regions improved on measures of supply chain, financing, health and social environment, access, and utilization, with the greatest progress made in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nSubsidized products, particularly condoms and oral contraceptives, may be provided to increase accessibility for low-income people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59105884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59105884", "title": "Courage to Resist", "text": "Courage to Resist\n\nCourage to Resist (CTR) formed as an organization in the San Francisco, CA area during the early part of the Iraq War (often called the 2nd Iraq war), which began in 2003. It now has members spread around the U.S., but is still mainly concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area. The group’s overall mission is to support U.S military war resisters, including helping them with legal fees. They have defended and supported well-known resisters like Chelsea Manning and Reality Winner, and in 2018 began encouraging soldiers to refuse to be involved with the immigrant detention camps and other immigrant operations of the U.S. military. Their principle slogans are “Supporting the troops who refuse to fight!” and \"Towards a World Without War!\" They support those “who face consequences for acting on conscience, in opposition to illegal wars, occupations, [and] the policies of empire”.\n\nThe Iraq War started amid controversy with many questioning everything from its legality to the existence in Iraq of “weapons of mass destruction”. According to French academic Dominique Reynié, between 3 January and 12 April 2003, people across the globe took part in almost 3,000 protests against war in Iraq, with demonstrations on 15 February 2003 being the largest.. This questioning was also occurring in the U.S. military and on April 1, 2003 Stephen E. Funk, a U.S. Marine Corps Lance Corporal Reservist, became the first of numerous soldier resisters when he held a press conference outside the Camp Pendleton Marine Base in Oceanside, CA publicly announcing his refusal to participate in the war. Like minded civilians and veterans of earlier wars stepped forward to support Funk and then decided, as other soldiers refused orders and faced courts martial, that a broader organization was needed. It wouldn’t be enough, they thought, to form a committee in support of each individual objector – the result was Courage to Resist.\n\nOne of Funk’s early supporters was Jeff Paterson, a former Marine who, because he was the first soldier to publically refuse orders to the 1st Iraq War in 1990, felt a particular kinship with Funk. Paterson had been a Marine for five years and was on the verge of returning to civilian life when his discharge was cancelled in lieu of orders to the Persian Gulf. On August 7, 1990, as his unit boarded an aircraft in Hawaii, he sat down on the tarmac and refused to move. A week later he, like Funk, held a press conference where he stated, “I will not be a pawn in America’s power plays for profit and oil in the Middle East”. Paterson was a founding member of and has served for many years as the Project Director for CTR.\n\nCTR supported several early public resisters to the Iraq War, including Army Staff Sergeants Camilo Mejia and Kevin Benderman, Navy Petty Officer Pablo Paredes, Army medic Agustin Aguayo, Private First Class Robin Long, and Army First Lieutenant Ehren Watada, and continued to support military resisters throughout the war. They raised money to build public support and to help with legal defense. They staged rallies outside the military bases where resisters were being court martialed, demonstrated outside military recruiting stations, and participated in national days of actions to oppose the war and support war resisters.\n\nCTR supported the earliest public resisters to the War in Afghanistan (2001–present) including Victor Agosto and Travis Bishop.\n\nCTR members traveled to Israel and Palestine, learning much about Israeli war resistance movements. They talked with former Israeli soldiers about their experiences “carrying out acts of brutality and occupation” and decided as an organization to support their resistance to the Israeli military. In 2008 they were instrumental in issuing a statement signed by 26 U.S. military soldiers and veterans who refused to fight in Iraq and Afghanistan, which supported Israeli Shministim (Hebrew for “12th graders”) who were also resisting military service. In 2018 they supported Tamar Ze’evi, a 15-year-old who spent 115 days in jail for refusing to enlist in the Israeli army.\n\nIn April 2010 a video showing a U.S. helicopter attack in Baghdad that killed eleven unarmed Iraqi civilians, including two Reuters employees, and seriously wounded two children was released by Wikileaks and quickly spread via the Internet and news media. On May 27, 2010, Chelsea Manning, then known as Bradley Manning, was arrested and soon charged with espionage and “aiding the enemy”. Within days of Manning’s arrest, CTR joined with others to defend her and help raise money for her defense. On August 21, 2013 she was sentenced 35 years in prison, reduction in rank to private, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and a dishonorable discharge. This was the longest sentence ever given to a whistleblower and was widely criticized. Throughout the trial and the 7 years Manning ended up serving in Leavenworth prison, CTR defended her and provided financial support through the Chelsea Manning Support Network. Manning's lead defense attorney, David Coombs, credited CTR directly for her early release: “If not for the efforts of Jeff Paterson and the Manning Support Network and Courage to Resist, there’s no way that a president would spend the political capital to grant a commutation”. And Manning herself said on the NBC Today show that she \"would especially like to thank Courage to Resist and the Bradley Manning Support Network for their tireless efforts in raising awareness for my case and providing for my legal representation.\"\n\nThroughout its existence, CTR has focused some of its efforts on U.S. military recruiting, including the efforts of the military to influence and recruit youth. They have organized demonstration and vigils outside military recruiting centers and have on at least one occasion forced a Marine recruiting center to close for several hours. They use materials like the photo on the right from the \"Stop Recruiting Kids\" campaign.\n\nReality Winner, a former U.S. Air Force intelligence specialist and military contractor, was arrested on June 3, 2017 and charged under the Espionage Act with leaking a National Security Agency report about Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections to the news website \"The Intercept\". Very quickly after her arrest, CTR began a campaign demanding the charges against her be dropped. They led the efforts to form the \"Stand With Reality\" support committee which stated that “the charge against Winner is grossly disproportionate to her alleged offense, and is designed to create a chilling effect on investigative journalism by dissuading sources from sharing information that is critical to the public interest.” On August 23, 2018 Winner received a sentence of 5 Years in prison. Since her conviction, CTR has joined with many other organizations to call for Winner’s pardon or the commuting of her sentence to time served.\n\nCTR’s most recent campaign opposes the use of U.S. military personnel in immigrant detention camps and along U.S. borders. They have produced materials encouraging soldiers to resist what they call “illegal” orders in relation to immigration and they have supported GIs who have publically resisted. For example, they support U.S. Army Captain Brittany DeBarros who has used social media and other public statements to voice her opposition to the military’s immigrant related deployments. She stated, “I didn’t take an oath to defend illegal war abroad and immigrant concentration camps at home. True leaders refuse illegal and immoral orders.”\n\n"}
{"id": "34238291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34238291", "title": "Defensive attribution hypothesis", "text": "Defensive attribution hypothesis\n\nThe defensive attribution hypothesis (or \"bias\", \"theory\", or simply defensive attribution) is a social psychological term from the attributional approach referring to a set of beliefs used as a shield against the fear that one will be the victim or cause of a serious mishap.\n\nCommonly, defensive attributions are made when someone witnesses or learns of mishaps involving other people. These attributions of blame will depend upon any similarities between the witness and the person(s) involved in the mishap. More responsibility will be attributed as personal or situational similarity decreases. Assigning responsibility allows the observer to believe that the mishap was controllable and thus preventable.\n\nA defensive attribution may also be used to protect the person's self-esteem if, despite everything, the mishap does occur, because blame can be assigned to the \"other\" (person or situation). The use of defensive attributions is considered a cognitive bias because an individual will change their beliefs about a situation based upon their motivations or desires rather than the factual characteristics of the situation.\n\nWalster (1966) hypothesized that it can be frightening to believe that a misfortune could happen to anyone at random, and attributing responsibility to the person(s) involved helps to manage this emotional reaction.\n\nShaver (1970) recognized that the similarity of the witness to the person(s) involved in the misfortune – in terms of situation, age, gender, personality, etc. – changes the amount of blame one is ready to ascribe. This is related to the empathy response, which is more likely to be activated if the witness sees similarities between themselves and the person(s) involved. Shaver was able to demonstrate this response by describing events to test subjects; varying the situations and people described to either match or be significantly different from the subjects: as similarity with witnesses increased, attributions of responsibility decreased.\n\nIn 1981 Jerry Burger published a meta-analysis of 22 peer-reviewed studies on the defensive attribution hypothesis, in which he found strong evidence to support Shaver's hypothesized negative relationship between similarity and responsibility.\n\nResearchers examining sexual assault have consistently found that male participants blamed rapists less than female participants did, and that male participants blamed the rape victims more than female participants did. These findings support Shaver's similarity-responsibility hypothesis: male participants, who are personally similar to (male) rapists, blame rapists less than female participants who are dissimilar to rapists. On the other hand, female participants, who are personally similar to (female) rape victims, blame the victims less than male participants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512580", "title": "Derby (horse race)", "text": "Derby (horse race)\n\nA derby ( , ) is a type of horse race named after the Derby Stakes run at Epsom Downs Racecourse in England. That was in turn named after Edward Smith-Stanley, 12th Earl of Derby, who inaugurated the race in 1780. Perhaps the best-known example after the original is the Kentucky Derby in the United States.\n\nTraditionally, the term \"derby\" is used strictly to refer to races restricted to three-year-olds, as the English and U.S. Triple Crown races all are. The most notable exceptions to this rule are the Hong Kong Derby and Singapore Derby, restricted to four-year-old Thoroughbreds, and the Canadian Pacing Derby, an annual harness race for \"aged pacers\" (Standardbreds) four years old and up.\n\nIn Scandinavian harness racing Derby is restricted to four-year-olds. Exception is the Finnhorse Derby, which is restricted to five-year-olds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56285", "title": "Disability", "text": "Disability\n\nA disability is an impairment that may be cognitive, developmental, intellectual, mental, physical, sensory, or some combination of these. It substantially affects a person's life activities and may be present from birth or occur during a person's lifetime.\nDisability is a contested concept, with different meanings in different communities. It may be used to refer to physical or mental attributes that some institutions, particularly medicine, view as needing to be fixed (the medical model). It may refer to limitations imposed on people by the constraints of an ableist society (the social model). Or the term may serve to refer to the identity of disabled people. Physiological functional capacity (PFC) is a related term that describes an individual's performance level. It gauges one's ability to perform the physical tasks of daily life and the ease with which these tasks are performed. PFC declines with advancing age to result in frailty, cognitive disorders or physical disorders, all of which may lead to labeling individuals as disabled.\n\nThe discussion over disability's definition arose out of disability activism in the United States and the United Kingdom in the 1970s, which challenged how the medical concept of disability dominated perception and discourse about disabilities. Debates about proper terminology and their implied politics continue in disability communities and the academic field of disability studies. In some countries, the law requires that disabilities are documented by a healthcare provider in order to assess qualifications for disability benefits.\n\nContemporary understandings of disability derive from concepts that arose during the West's scientific Enlightenment; prior to the Enlightenment, physical differences were viewed through a different lens.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, madness and other conditions were thought to be caused by demons. They were also thought to be part of the natural order, especially during and in the fallout of the Plague, which wrought impairments throughout the general population. In the early modern period there was a shift to seeking biological causes for physical and mental differences, as well as heightened interest in demarcating categories: for example, Ambroise Pare, in the sixteenth century, wrote of \"monsters\", \"prodigies\", and \"the maimed\". The European Enlightenment's emphases on knowledge derived from reason and on the value of natural science to human progress helped spawn the birth of institutions and associated knowledge systems that observed and categorized human beings; among these, the ones significant to the development of today's concepts of disability were asylums, clinics, and, prisons.\n\nContemporary concepts of disability are rooted in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century developments. Foremost among these was the development of clinical medical discourse, which made the human body visible as a thing to be manipulated, studied, and transformed. These worked in tandem with scientific discourses that sought to classify and categorize and, in so doing, became methods of normalization.\n\nThe concept of the \"norm\" developed in this time period, and is signaled in the work of the Belgian statistician, sociologist, mathematician, and astronomer Adolphe Quetelet, who wrote in the 1830s of l'homme moyen – the average man. Quetelet postulated that one could take the sum of all people's attributes in a given population (such as their height or weight) and find their average, and that this figure should serve as a norm toward which all should aspire.\n\nThis idea of a statistical norm threads through the rapid take up of statistics gathering by Britain, United States, and the Western European states during this time period, and it is tied to the rise of eugenics. Disability, as well as other concepts including: abnormal, non-normal, and normalcy came from this. The circulation of these concepts is evident in the popularity of the freak show, where showmen profited from exhibiting people who deviated from those norms.\n\nWith the rise of eugenics in the latter part of the nineteenth century, such deviations were viewed as dangerous to the health of entire populations. With disability viewed as part of a person's biological make-up and thus their genetic inheritance, scientists turned their attention to notions of weeding such \"deviations\" out of the gene pool. Various metrics for assessing a person's genetic fitness, which were then used to deport, sterilize, or institutionalize those deemed unfit. At the end of the Second World War, with the example of Nazi eugenics, eugenics faded from public discourse, and increasingly disability cohered into a set of attributes that medicine could attend to – whether through augmentation, rehabilitation, or treatment. In both contemporary and modern history, disability was often viewed as a by-product of incest between first-degree relatives or second-degree relatives.\n\nIn the early 1970s, disability activists began to challenge how society treated disabled people and the medical approach to disability. Due to this work, physical barriers to access were identified. These conditions functionally disabled them, and what is now known as the social model of disability emerged. Coined by Mike Oliver in 1983, this phrase distinguishes between the medical model of disability – under which an impairment needs to be fixed – and the social model of disability – under which the society that limits a person needs to be fixed.\n\nDifferent terms have been used for disabled people in different times and places. \"Disability\" or \"impairment\" are commonly used, as are more specific terms, such as \"blind\" (to describe having no vision at all) or \"visually impaired\" (to describe having limited vision).\n\n\"Handicap\" has been disparaged as a result of false folk etymology that says it is a reference to begging. It is actually derived from an old game, Hand-i'-cap, in which two players trade possessions and a third, neutral person judges the difference of value between the possessions. The concept of a neutral person evening up the odds was extended to handicap racing in the mid-18th century. In handicap racing, horses carry different weights based on the umpire's estimation of what would make them run equally. The use of the term to describe a person with a disability—by extension from handicap racing, a person carrying a heavier burden than normal—appeared in the early 20th century.\n\nPeople-first language is one way to talk about disability that some people prefer. Using people-first language is said to put the person before the disability, so those individuals who prefer people-first language, prefer to be called, \"a person with a disability\". Some people prefer person-first phrasing, while others prefer identity-first phrasing.\n\nFor people-first guidelines, check out, \"Cerebral Palsy: A Guide for Care\" at the University of Delaware:\"The American Psychological Association style guide states that, when identifying a person with a disability, the person's name or pronoun should come first, and descriptions of the disability should be used so that the disability is identified, but is not modifying the person. Acceptable examples included \"a woman with Down syndrome\" or \"a man who has schizophrenia\". It also states that a person's adaptive equipment should be described functionally as something that assists a person, not as something that limits a person, for example, \"a woman who uses a wheelchair\" rather than \"a woman in/confined to a wheelchair\".A similar kind of \"people-first\" terminology is also used in the UK, but more often in the form \"people with impairments\" (such as \"people with visual impairments\"). However, in the UK, the term \"disabled people\" is generally preferred to \"people with disabilities\". It is argued under the social model that while someone's impairment (for example, having a spinal cord injury) is an individual property, \"disability\" is something created by external societal factors such as a lack of accessibility. This distinction between the individual property of impairment and the social property of disability is central to the social model. The term \"disabled people\" as a political construction is also widely used by international organisations of disabled people, such as Disabled Peoples' International (DPI).\n\nThe use of “people-first” terminology has given rise to the use of the acronym PWD to refer to person(s) (or people) with disabilities (or disability). However other individuals and groups prefer identity-first language to emphasize how a disability can impact peoples identities. Which style of language used varies between different countries, groups and individuals.\n\nTo a certain degree, physical impairments and changing mental states are almost ubiquitously experienced by people as they age. Aging populations are often stigmatized for having a high prevalence of disability. Kathleen Woodward, writing in \"Key Words for Disability Studies\", explains the phenomenon as follows:\nAs stated above, studies have illustrated a correlation between disabilities and poverty. Notably, jobs offered to disabled people are scarce. \"For global demographic data on unemployment rates for the disabled, see Disability and poverty.\" However, there are current programs in place that aid intellectually disabled (ID) people to acquire skills they need in the workforce. Such programs include sheltered workshops and adult day care programs. Sheltered programs consist of daytime activities such as, gardening, manufacturing, and assembling. These activities facilitate routine-oriented tasks that in turn allow intellectually disabled people to gain experience before entering the workforce. Similarly, adult day care programs also include day time activities. However, these activities are based in an educational environment where intellectually disabled are able to engage in educational, physical, and communication based tasks. This educational based environment helps facilitate communication, memory, and general living skills. In addition, adult day care programs arrange opportunities for their students to engage in community activities. Such opportunities are arranged by scheduling field trips to public places (e.g. Disneyland, Zoo, and Movie Theater). Despite, both programs providing essential skills for intellectually disabled prior to entering the workforce researchers have found that intellectually disabled people prefer to be involved with community-integrated employment. Community-integrated employment are job opportunities offered to intellectually disabled people at minimum wage or a higher rate depending on the position. Community-integrated employment comes in a variety of occupations ranging from customer service, clerical, janitorial, hospitality and manufacturing positions. Within their daily tasks community-integrated employees work alongside employees who do not have disabilities, but who are able to assist them with training. All three options allow intellectually disabled people to develop and exercise social skills that are vital to everyday life. However, it is not guaranteed that community-integrated employees receive the same treatment as employees that do not have ID. According to Lindstrom, Hirano, McCarthy, and Alverson, community-integrated employees are less likely to receive raises. In addition, studies conducted in 2013 illustrated only 26% of employees with ID retained full-time status.\n\nFurthermore, many with disabilities, intellectual and (or) psychical, finding a stable workforce poses many challenges. According to a study conducted by JARID (Journal of Applied Research and Intellectual Disability, indicates that although finding a job may be difficult for an intellectually disabled individual, stabilizing a job is even harder. This is largely due to two main factors: production skills and effective social skills. This idea is supported by Chadsey-Rusch, who claims that securing employment for the intellectually disabled, requires adequate production skills and effective social skills. However, other underlying factors for job loss include, structural factors and the integration between worker and workplace. As stated by Kilsby, limited structural factors can effect a multitude of factors in a job. Factors such as a restricted number of hours an intellectually disabled person is allowed to work. This in return, according to Fabian, Wistow, and Schneider leads to a lack of opportunity to develop relationships with coworkers and a chance to better integrate within the workplace. Nevertheless, those who are unable to stabilize a job often are left discouraged. According to the same study conducted by JARED, many who had participated, found that they had made smaller incomes when compared to their co-workers, had an excess of time throughout their days, because they did not have work. They,also, had feelings of hopelessness and failure. According to the NOD ( National Organization On Disability), not only do the (ID) face constant discouragement, but many live below the poverty line, because they are unable to find or stabilize employment and (or) because of employee restricting factors placed on ID workers. This then causes the (ID) the incapacity to provide for themselves basic necessities one needs. Items such as, food, medical care, transportation, and housing.\n\nThere is a global correlation between disability and poverty, produced by a variety of factors. Disability and poverty may form a vicious circle, in which physical barriers and stigma of disability make it more difficult to get income, which in turn diminishes access to health care and other necessities for a healthy life. The World report on disability indicates that half of all disabled people cannot afford health care, compared to a third of abled people. In countries without public services for adults with disabilities, their families may be impoverished.\n\nThere is limited research knowledge, but many anecdotal reports, on what happens when disasters impact disabled people. Individuals with disabilities are greatly affected by disasters. Those with physical disabilities can be at risk when evacuating if assistance is not available. Individuals with cognitive impairments may struggle with understanding instructions that must be followed in the event a disaster occurs. All of these factors can increase the degree of variation of risk in disaster situations with disabled individuals.\n\nResearch studies have consistently found discrimination against individuals with disabilities during all phases of a disaster cycle. The most common limitation is that people cannot physically access buildings or transportation, as well as access disaster-related services. The exclusion of these individuals is caused in part by the lack of disability-related training provided to emergency planners and disaster relief personnel.\n\nThe International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), produced by the World Health Organization, distinguishes between body functions (physiological or psychological, such as vision) and body structures (anatomical parts, such as the eye and related structures). Impairment in bodily structure or function is defined as involving an anomaly, defect, loss or other significant deviation from certain generally accepted population standards, which may fluctuate over time. Activity is defined as the execution of a task or action. The ICF lists 9 broad domains of functioning which can be affected:\nIn concert with disability scholars, the introduction to the ICF states that a variety of conceptual models have been proposed to understand and explain disability and functioning, which it seeks to integrate. These models include the following:\n\nThe medical model views disability as a problem of the person, directly caused by disease, trauma, or other health conditions which therefore requires sustained medical care in the form of individual treatment by professionals. In the medical model, management of the disability is aimed at a \"cure\", or the individual's adjustment and behavioral change that would lead to an \"almost-cure\" or effective cure. In the medical model, medical care is viewed as the main issue, and at the political level, the principal response is that of modifying or reforming healthcare policy.\n\nThe social model of disability sees \"disability\" as a socially created problem and a matter of the full integration of individuals into society. In this model, disability is not an attribute of an individual, but rather a complex collection of conditions, created by the social environment. The management of the problem requires social action and it is the collective responsibility of society to create a society in which limitations for disabled people are minimal. Disability is both cultural and ideological in creation. According to the social model, equal access for someone with an impairment/disability is a human rights concern. The social model of disability has come under criticism. While recognizing the importance played by the social model in stressing the responsibility of society, scholars, including Tom Shakespeare, point out the limits of the model, and urge the need for a new model that will overcome the \"medical vs. social\" dichotomy. The limitations of this model mean that often the vital services and information persons with disabilities face are simply not available, often due to limited economic returns in supporting them.\n\nSome say medical humanities is a fruitful field where the gap between the medical and the social model of disability might be bridged.\n\nThe social construction of disability is the idea that disability is constructed by social expectations and institutions rather than biological differences. Highlighting the ways society and institutions construct disability is one of the main focuses of this idea. In the same way that race and gender are not biologically fixed, neither is disability.\n\nAround the early 1970s, sociologists, notably Eliot Friedson, began to argue that labeling theory and social deviance could be applied to disability studies. This led to the creation of the social construction of disability theory. The social construction of disability is the idea that disability is constructed as the social response to a deviance from the norm. The medical industry is the creator of the ill and disabled social role. Medical professionals and institutions, who wield expertise over health, have the ability to define health and physical and mental norms. When an individual has a feature that creates an impairment, restriction, or limitation from reaching the social definition of health, the individual is labeled as disabled. Under this idea, disability is not defined by the physical features of the body but by a deviance from the social convention of health.\n\nSocial construction of disability would argue that the medical model of disability's view that a disability is an impairment, restriction, or limitation is wrong. Instead what is seen as a disability is just a difference in the individual from what is considered \"normal\" in society.\n\n\nIn contexts where their differences are visible, persons with disabilities often face stigma. People frequently react to disabled presence with fear, pity, patronization, intrusive gazes, revulsion, or disregard. These reactions can, and often do, exclude persons with disabilities from accessing social spaces along with the benefits and resources these spaces provide. Disabled writer/researcher Jenny Morris describes how stigma functions to marginalize persons with disabilities:\n\nAdditionally, facing stigma can cause harm to psycho-emotional well-being of the person being stigmatized. One of the ways in which the psycho-emotional health of persons with disabilities is adversely affected is through the internalization of the oppression they experience, which can lead to feeling that they are weak, crazy, worthless, or any number of other negative attributes that may be associated with their conditions. Internalization of oppression damages the self-esteem of the person affected and shapes their behaviors in ways that are compliant with nondisabled dominance. Ableist ideas are frequently internalized when disabled people are pressured by the people and institutions around them to hide and downplay their disabled difference, or, \"pass\". According to writer Simi Linton, the act of passing takes a deep emotional toll by causing disabled individuals to experience loss of community, anxiety and self-doubt. The media play a significant role in creating and reinforcing stigma associated with disability. Media portrayals of disability usually cast disabled presence as necessarily marginal within society at large. These portrayals simultaneously reflect and influence the popular perception of disabled difference.\n\nThere are distinct tactics that the media frequently employ in representing disabled presence. These common ways of framing disability are heavily criticized for being dehumanizing and failing to place importance on the perspectives of persons with disabilities.\n\nInspiration porn refers to portrayals of persons with disabilities in which they are presented as being inspiring simply because the person has a disability. These portrayals are criticized because they are created with the intent of making able-bodied viewers feel better about themselves in comparison to the individual portrayed. Rather than recognizing the humanity of persons with disabilities, inspiration porn turns them into objects of inspiration for a nondisabled audience.\n\nThe supercrip trope refers to instances when media reports on or portray a disabled person who has made a noteworthy achievement; but center on their disability rather than what they actually did. They are portrayed as awe-inspiring for being exceptional compared to others with the same or similar conditions. This trope is widely used in reporting on disabled athletes as well as in portrayals of autistic savants.\n\nMany disabled people denounce these representations as reducing people to their condition rather than viewing them as full people. Furthermore, supercrip portrayals are criticized for creating the unrealistic expectation that disability should be accompanied by some type of special talent, genius, or insight.\n\nCharacters in fiction that bear physical or mental markers of difference from perceived societal norms are frequently positioned as villains within a text. Lindsey Row-Heyveld notes, for instance, “that villainous pirates are scraggly, wizened, and inevitably kitted out with a peg leg, eye patch, or hook hand whereas heroic pirates look like Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow.” Disabled people's visible differences from the abled majority are meant to evoke fear in audiences that can perpetuate the mindset of disabled people being a threat to individual or public interests and well-being.\n\nSome disabled people have attempted to resist marginalisation through the use of the social model in opposition to the medical model; with the aim of shifting criticism away from their bodies and impairments and towards the social institutions that oppress them relative to their abled peers. Disability activism that demands many grievances be addressed, such as lack of accessibility, poor representation in media, general disrespect, and lack of recognition, originates from a social model framework.\n\nEmbracing disability as a positive identity by becoming involved in disabled communities and participating in disabled culture can be an effective way to combat internalised prejudice; and can challenge dominant narratives about disability.\n\nThe experiences that disabled people have navigating social institutions vary greatly as a function of what other social categories they may belong to. The categories that intersect with disability to create unique experiences of ableism include, but aren't limited to, race and gender. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities differentiates two kinds of disability intersection, race disability intersection and gender disability intersection.\n\nDisabled people who are also racial minorities generally have less access to support and are more vulnerable to violent discrimination. For example, in the United States people of color who are mentally ill are more frequently victims of police brutality than their white counterparts. Camille A. Nelson, writing for the \"Berkeley Journal of Criminal Law\", notes that for “people who are negatively racialized, that is people who are perceived as being non-white, and for whom mental illness is either known or assumed, interaction with police is precarious and potentially dangerous.”\n\nThe marginalization of disabled people can leave persons with disabilities unable to actualize what society expects of gendered existence. This lack of recognition for their gender identity can leave persons with disabilities with feelings of inadequacy. Thomas J. Gerschick of Illinois State University describes why this denial of gendered identity occurs:\n\nTo the extent that women and men with disabilities are gendered, the interactions of these two identities lead to different experiences. Disabled women face a sort of “double stigmatization” in which their membership to both of these marginalized categories simultaneously exacerbates the negative stereotypes associated with each as they are ascribed to them. According to The UN Woman Watch, \"Persistence of certain cultural, legal and institutional barriers makes women and girls with disabilities the victims of two-fold discrimination: as women and as persons with disabilities.\" As Rosemarie Garland-Thomson puts it, “Women with disabilities, even more intensely than women in general, have been cast in the collective cultural imagination as inferior, lacking, excessive, incapable, unfit, and useless.”\n\nAssistive Technology is a generic term for devices and modifications (for a person or within a society) that help overcome or remove a disability. The first recorded example of the use of a prosthesis dates to at least 1800 BC. The wheelchair dates from the 17th century. The curb cut is a related structural innovation. Other examples are standing frames, text telephones, accessible keyboards, large print, Braille, & speech recognition software. Disabled people often develop personal or community adaptations, such as strategies to suppress tics in public (for example in Tourette's syndrome), or sign language in deaf communities.\n\nAs the personal computer has become more ubiquitous, various organizations have formed to develop software and hardware to make computers more accessible for disabled people. Some software and hardware, such as Voice Finger, Freedom Scientific's \"JAWS\", the Free and Open Source alternative \"Orca\" etc. have been specifically designed for disabled people while other software and hardware, such as Nuance's Dragon NaturallySpeaking, were not developed specifically for disabled people, but can be used to increase accessibility. The LOMAK keyboard was designed in New Zealand specifically for persons with disabilities.\nThe World Wide Web consortium recognised a need for International Standards for Web Accessibility for persons with disabilities and created the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI). As at Dec 2012 the standard is WCAG 2.0 (WCAG = Web Content Accessibility Guidelines).\n\nThe Paralympic Games (meaning \"alongside the Olympics\") are held after the (Summer and Winter) Olympics. The Paralympic Games include athletes with a wide range of physical disabilities. In member countries, organizations exist to organize competition in the Paralympic sports on levels ranging from recreational to elite (for example, Disabled Sports USA and BlazeSports America in the United States).\n\nThe Paralympics developed from a rehabilitation programme for British war veterans with spinal injuries. In 1948, Sir Ludwig Guttman, a neurologist working with World War II veterans with spinal injuries at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury in the UK, began using sport as part of the rehabilitation programmes of his patients.\n\nIn 2006, the Extremity Games were formed for physically disabled people, specifically limb loss or limb difference, to be able to compete in extreme sports.\n\nThe disability rights movement aims to secure equal opportunities and equal rights for disabled people. The specific goals and demands of the movement are accessibility and safety in transportation, architecture, and the physical environment; equal opportunities in independent living, employment, education, and housing; and freedom from abuse, neglect, and violations of patients' rights. Effective civil rights legislation is sought to secure these opportunities and rights.\n\nThe early disability rights movement was dominated by the medical model of disability, where emphasis was placed on curing or treating disabled people so that they would adhere to the social norm, but starting in the 1960s, rights groups began shifting to the social model of disability, where disability is interpreted as an issue of discrimination, thereby paving the way for rights groups to achieve equality through legal means.\n\nOn December 13, 2006, the United Nations formally agreed on the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the first human rights treaty of the 21st century, to protect and enhance the rights and opportunities of the world's estimated 650 million disabled people. , 99 of the 147 signatories had ratified the Convention. Countries that sign the convention are required to adopt national laws, and remove old ones, so that persons with disabilities will, for example, have equal rights to education, employment, and cultural life; to the right to own and inherit property; to not be discriminated against in marriage, etc.; and to not be unwilling subjects in medical experiments. UN officials, including the High Commissioner for Human Rights, have characterized the bill as representing a paradigm shift in attitudes toward a more rights-based view of disability in line with the social model.\n\nIn 1976, the United Nations began planning for its International Year of Disabled Persons (1981), later renamed the International Year of Disabled Persons. The UN Decade of Disabled Persons (1983–1993) featured a World Programme of Action Concerning Disabled Persons. In 1979, Frank Bowe was the only person with a disability representing any country in the planning of IYDP-1981. Today, many countries have named representatives who are themselves individuals with disabilities. The decade was closed in an address before the General Assembly by Robert Davila. Both Bowe and Davila are deaf. In 1984, UNESCO accepted sign language for use in education of deaf children and youth.\n\nIn the United States, the Department of Labor's 2014 rules for federal contractors, defined as companies that make more than $50,000/year from the federal government, required them to have as a goal that 7% of their workforce must be disabled people. In schools, the ADA says that all classrooms must be wheelchair accessible. The U.S. Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, commonly known as the Access Board, created the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to help offer guidelines for transportation and accessibility for the physically disabled.\n\nAbout 12.6% of the U.S. population are individuals who suffer from a mental or physical disability. Many are unemployed because of prejudiced assumptions that a person with disabilities is unable to complete tasks that are commonly required in the workforce. This became a major Human rights issue because of the discrimination that this group faced when trying to apply for jobs in the U.S. Many advocacy groups protested against such discrimination, asking the federal government to implement laws and policies that would help individuals with disabilities.\n\nThe Rehabilitation Act of 1973 was enacted with the purpose of protecting individuals with disabilities from prejudicial treatment by government funded programs, employers, and agencies. The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 has not only helped protect U.S. citizens from being discriminated against but it has also created confidence amongst individuals to feel more comfortable with their disability. There are many sections within The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, that contains detailed information about what is covered in this policy.\n\n\nThe federal government enacted The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which was created to allow equal opportunity for jobs, access to private and government funded facilities, and transportation for disabled people. This act was created with the purpose to ensure that employers would not discriminate against any individual despite their disability. In 1990, data was gathered to show the percentage of disabled people who worked in the U.S. Out of the 13% who filled out the survey, only 53% percent of individuals with disabilities worked while 90% of this group population did not, the government wanted to change this, they wanted Americans with disabilities to have the same opportunities as those who did not have a disability. The ADA not only required corporations to hire disabled people but that they also accommodate them and their needs.\n\n\nIn the UK, the Department for Work and Pension is a government department responsible for promoting disability awareness and among its aims is to increase the understanding of disability and removal of barriers for disabled people in the workplace. According to a news report, a people survey conducted in the UK shows a 23% increase in reported discrimination and harassment in the workplace at The Department for Work and Pension. The survey shows the number of reports for discrimination due to disability was in majority compared to discrimination due to gender, ethnicity or age. DWP received criticism for the survey results. As a department responsible for tackling discrimination at work, the DWP results may indicate room for improvement from within. A DWP spokesperson said the survey results do not necessarily indicate an increase in the number of reports, but rather reflecting the outcomes of efforts to encourage people to come forward.\n\nPolitical rights, social inclusion and citizenship have come to the fore in developed and some developing countries. The debate has moved beyond a concern about the perceived cost of maintaining dependent disabled people to finding effective ways to ensure that disabled people can participate in and contribute to society in all spheres of life.\n\nIn developing nations, where the vast bulk of the estimated 650 million disabled people reside, a great deal of work is needed to address concerns ranging from accessibility and education to self-empowerment, self-supporting employment, and beyond.\n\nIn the past few years, disability rights activists have focused on obtaining full citizenship for the disabled.\n\nThere are obstacles in some countries in getting full employment; public perception of disabled people may vary.\n\nDisability abuse happens when a person is abused physically, financially, verbally or mentally due to the person having a disability. As many disabilities are not visible (for example, asthma, learning disabilities) some abusers cannot rationalize the non-physical disability with a need for understanding, support, and so on.\n\nAs the prevalence of disability and the cost of supporting disability increases with medical advancement and longevity in general, this aspect of society becomes of greater political importance. How political parties treat their disabled constituents may become a measure of a political party's understanding of disability, particularly in the social model of disability.\n\nDisability benefit, or disability pension, is a major kind of disability insurance that is provided by government agencies to people who are temporarily or permanently unable to work due to a disability. In the U.S., disability benefit is provided in the category of Supplemental Security Income. In Canada, it is within the Canada Pension Plan. In other countries, disability benefit may be provided under social security systems.\n\nCosts of disability pensions are steadily growing in Western countries, mainly in Europe and the United States. It was reported that, in the UK, expenditure on disability pensions accounted for 0.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1980; two decades later it had reached 2.6% of GDP. Several studies have reported a link between increased absence from work due to sickness and elevated risk of future disability pension.\n\nA study by researchers in Denmark suggests that information on self-reported days of absence due to sickness can be used to effectively identify future potential groups for disability pension. These studies may provide useful information for policy makers, case managing authorities, employers, and physicians.\n\nPrivate, for-profit disability insurance plays a role in providing incomes to disabled people, but the nationalized programs are the safety net that catch most claimants.\n\nEstimates of worldwide and country-wide numbers of individuals with disabilities are problematic. The varying approaches taken to defining disability notwithstanding, demographers agree that the world population of individuals with disabilities is very large. For example, in 2012, the World Health Organization estimated a world population of 6.5 billion people. Of those, nearly 650 million people, or 10%, were estimated to be moderately or severely disabled. In 2018 the International Labour Organization estimated that about a billion people, one seventh of the world population, had disabilities, 80% of them in developing countries, and 80% of working age. Excluding disabled people from the workforce was reckoned to cost up to 7% of gross domestic product.\n\nAfter years of war in Afghanistan, there are more than 1 million disabled people. Afghanistan has one of the highest incidences of disabled people in the world. An estimated 80,000 Afghans are missing limbs, usually from landmine explosions.\n\nIn Australia, 18.5% of the population reported having a disability in a 2009 survey.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, , there were some 56.7 million disabled people, or 19% (by comparison, African Americans are the largest racial minority in the U.S., but only constitute 12.6% of the U.S. population).\n\nDisabled individuals make up one of the most inclusive minority groups in the United States. According to the 2014 Disability status report of the Cornell University Yang Tan Institute the prevalence rate of individuals with disabilities in the United States was 12.6% in that year. ambulatory disability had the highest prevalence (7.1%) in the United States. By contrast, visual disability had the lowest prevalence (2.3%). Additionally, 3.6% of people in the United States were reported to have had an auditory disability in the same year.\n\n5.8% of individuals ages 16–20 reported having any disability, physical and/ or cognitive. Adults 21 to 64 had a prevalence of 10.8% with over half of these (5.5%) being ambulatory disabilities. Ambulatory disability prevalence raised to 15.8% in adults 65–74 years of age. Adults 75 years and older comprised the highest prevalence with any disability at 50.3%.\n\nFemale individuals across all ages reported a total 0.4% higher prevalence rate than males who reported 12.4%.\n\nIn the U.S. 17.9% of Native American peoples reported having a disability while 4.5% reporting were of Asian descent, these were the two opposing poles of the prevalence rate within race .\n\nAlthough there are acts that have been imposed in order to prevent the discrimination of individuals with disabilities in the workplace, there is still an employment gap that can be seen between those with and without disabilities. In regards to employment, the institute's status report accounts that 34.6% of people with any disability reported being employed. By comparison; 77.6% of individuals, who did not report having a disability, reported having a full-time job in 2014.\n\nFor those employed full-time, individuals with disabilities on average earned $5,100 less than employees without a disability who were also employed full-time. Those affected the most by these differences were intellectually disabled people.\n\nNearly 8 million European men were permanently disabled in World War I. About 150,000 Vietnam veterans came home wounded, and at least 21,000 were permanently disabled. As of 2008, there were 2.9 million disabled veterans in the United States, an increase of 25 percent over 2001.\n\nThere is widespread agreement among experts in the field, that disability is more common in developing than in developed nations. The connection between disability and poverty is thought to be part of a \"vicious cycle\" in which these constructs are mutually reinforcing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15895551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15895551", "title": "Disappointment", "text": "Disappointment\n\nDisappointment is the feeling of dissatisfaction that follows the failure of expectations or hopes to manifest. Similar to regret, it differs in that a person who feels regret focuses primarily on the personal choices that contributed to a poor outcome, while a person feeling disappointment focuses on the outcome itself. It is a source of psychological stress. The study of disappointment—its causes, impact, and the degree to which individual decisions are motivated by a desire to avoid it—is a focus in the field of decision analysis, as disappointment is, along with regret, one of two primary emotions involved in decision-making.\n\n\"Disappoint\" is traced to the Middle English \"disappointen\" by way of the Old French \"desapointer\". In literal meaning, it is to remove from office. Its use in the sense of general frustration traces to the late 15th century, and it first appears recorded in English as an emotional state of dejection in the middle 18th century.\n\nDisappointment is a subjective response related to anticipated rewards. Disappointment recovery time can vary among people. For some it can take a few minutes while for some it can take a few days.\n\nDisappointment, and an inability to prepare for it, has also been hypothesized as the source of occasional immune system compromise in optimists. While optimists by and large exhibit better health, they may alternatively exhibit less immunity when under prolonged or uncontrollable stress, a phenomenon which researchers have attributed to the \"disappointment effect\". The \"disappointment effect\" posits that optimists do not utilize \"emotional cushioning\" to prepare for disappointment and hence are less able to deal with it when they experience it. This disappointment effect has been challenged since the mid-1990s by researcher Suzanne Segerstrom, who has published, alone and in accord, several articles evaluating its plausibility. Her findings suggest that, rather than being unable to deal with disappointment, optimists are more likely to actively tackle their problems and experience some immunity compromise as a result.\n\nIn 1994, psychotherapist Ian Craib published the book \"The Importance of Disappointment\", in which he drew on the works of Melanie Klein and Sigmund Freud in advancing the theory that disappointment-avoidant culture—particularly therapy culture—provides false expectations of perfection in life and prevents people from achieving a healthy self-identity. Craib offered as two examples litigious victims of medical mistakes, who once would have accepted accidents as a course of life, and people suffering grief following the death of a loved one who, he said, are provided a false stage model of recovery that is more designed to comfort bereavement therapists than the bereaved.\n\nLacanians considered childhood disappointment essential to entry into the symbolic world of culture; disappointment in adulthood - the frustration of our demands by the world - as key to discovering who in fact we are.\n\nDisappointment theory, pioneered in the mid-1980s by David E. Bell with further development by Graham Loomes and Robert Sugden, revolves around the notion that people contemplating risks are disappointed when the outcome of the risk is not evaluated as positively as the expected outcome. Disappointment theory has been utilized in examining such diverse decision-making processes as return migration, taxpayer compliance and customer willingness to pay. David Gill and Victoria Prowse provide experimental evidence that people are disappointment averse when they compete.\n\nDisappointed individuals focus on \"upward counterfactuals\"—alternative outcomes that would have been better than the one actually experienced—to the point that even positive outcomes may result in disappointment. One example, supplied by Bell, concerns a lottery win of $10,000.00, an event which will theoretically be perceived more positively if that amount represents the highest possible win in the lottery than if it represents the lowest. Decision analysts operate on the assumption that individuals will anticipate the potential for disappointment and make decisions that are less likely to lead to the experience of this feeling. Disappointment aversion has been posited as one explanation for the Allais paradox, a problematic response in expected utility theory wherein people prove more likely to choose a certain reward than to risk a greater reward while at the same time being willing to attempt a greater reward with lower probability when both options include some risk.\n\nWhile earlier developers of disappointment theory focused on anticipated outcomes, more recent examinations by Philippe Delquié and Alessandra Cillo of INSEAD have focused on the impact of later disappointment resulting when an actual outcome comes to be regarded negatively based on further development; for example, if a person receives higher than expected gains in the stock market, she may be elated until she discovers a week later that she could have gained much more profit if she had waited a few more days to sell. This experience of disappointment may influence subsequent behavior, and, the analysts state, an incorporation of such variables into disappointment theory may enhance the study of behavioral finance. Disappointment is, along with regret, measured by direct questioning of respondents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7921409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7921409", "title": "Fiscus Judaicus", "text": "Fiscus Judaicus\n\nThe (Latin for \"Jewish tax\") or was a tax-collecting agency instituted to collect the tax imposed on Jews in the Roman Empire after the destruction of Jerusalem and its Temple in AD 70. Revenues were directed to the Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus in Rome.\n\nModern knowledge of the fiscus Judaicus is found in four primary sources:\n\nThe tax was initially imposed by Roman Emperor Vespasian as one of the measures against Jews as a result of the First Roman-Jewish War of 66–73 AD (first Jewish revolt) (Josephus \"BJ\" 7. 218; Dio Cassius 66.7.2). The tax was imposed on all Jews throughout the empire, not just on those who took part in the revolt against Rome. The tax was imposed after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 AD in place of the levy (or Tithe) payable by Jews towards the upkeep of the Temple. The amount levied was two denarii, equivalent to the one-half of a shekel that observant Jews had previously paid for the upkeep of the Temple of Jerusalem (). The tax was to go instead to the Temple of Capitoline Jupiter, the major center of ancient Roman religion. The \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was a humiliation for the Jews. In Rome, a special procurator known as \"procurator ad capitularia Iudaeorum\" was responsible for the collection of the tax. Only those who had abandoned Judaism were exempt from paying it.\n\nWhile the tax paid for the Temple of Jerusalem was payable only by adult men between the ages of 20 and 50, the \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was imposed on all Jews, including women, children, and elderly—and even Jewish slaves. In Egypt, the documentary evidence (in the form of receipts) confirms the payment of the tax by women and children. The oldest person known from these receipts to have paid the \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was a 61-year-old woman, which led Sherman LeRoy Wallace to conjecture that the tax was levied only until the age of 62, as was the regular Roman poll tax paid by individuals throughout the Empire.\n\nThe tax was continued even after the completion of the reconstruction of the Capitoline temple for its upkeep.\n\nDomitian, who ruled between 81 and 96 AD, expanded the \"fiscus Iudaicus\" to include not only born Jews and converts to Judaism, but also on those who concealed the fact that they were Jews or observed Jewish customs. Suetonius relates that when he was an old man of 90 he was examined to see whether he was circumcised, which shows that during this period the tax was levied even on those above the age of 62. Louis Feldman argues that the increased harshness was caused by the success of the Jewish (and possibly Christian) proselytism.\n\nDomitian applied the tax even to those who merely \"lived like Jews\":\n\nDomitian's ruling opened the door to possibilities of blackmail in Rome and in all Italy. Charges of following Judaism were easily made, but difficult to disprove, not least because the practices of certain philosophical sects resembled some Jewish customs. As a result, many people chose to settle with the accusers out of court rather than risk the uncertainties of judicial hearings, thus effectively encouraging the blackmailers.\nTitus Flavius Clemens was put to death for \"living a Jewish life\" or \"drifting into Jewish ways\" in the year 95 AD, which may well have been related to the administration of the \"fiscus Judaicus\" under Domitian.\n\nThe \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was originally imposed on Jews. At the time neither the Romans nor, probably, the Early Christians considered Christianity to be a separate religion from Judaism. If anything they would have considered themselves as a sect within Judaism, which historians refer to as Jewish Christianity. However, whether that was the intention or not, it did not take long for Christians to petition the Emperor to distinguish the Christians for the purpose of the payment of the \"fiscus Iudaicus\". As the tax only applied to practising Jews, if they could be recognised as a separate religion, they would escape the impost.\n\nAfter the murder of Domitian in 96 AD, Nerva relaxed the rules of collection, limiting the tax to those who openly practised Judaism. By this measure, the Christians (and perhaps Jewish Christians) escaped the tax , but they were not officially recognized as a legal religion until the much later Edict of Milan in 313. The coins of Nerva bear the legend \"fisci Iudaici calumnia sublata\" \"abolition of malicious prosecution in connection with the Jewish tax,\" in reference to his reform of the harsh policies of Domitian\n\nIt remains unclear when exactly the \"fiscus Iudaicus\" was abolished. Documentary evidence confirms the collection of the tax in the middle of the 2nd century, and literary sources indicate that the tax was still in existence in the early 3rd century. It is not known when the tax was formally abolished. Some historians credit the emperor Julian the Apostate with its abolition in about 361 or 362.\n\nThe tax was revived in the Middle Ages in 1342 under the name of Opferpfennig by the Holy Roman Emperors. The Opferpfennig (originally Guldenpfennig) tax was introduced in 1342 by Emperor Louis IV the Bavarian, who ordered all Jews above the age of 12 and possessing 20 gulden to pay one gulden annually for protection. The practice was justified on the grounds that the emperor, as the legal successor of the Roman emperors, was the rightful recipient of the Temple tax which Jews paid to the Romans after the destruction of the Second Temple. The Opferpfennig was collected on Christmas day.\n\nEmperor Charles IV later ordered the income of the Opferpfennig tax to be delivered to the archbishop of Trier. This tax was at some places replaced by an overall communal tax.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25879538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25879538", "title": "Global Medical Device Nomenclature", "text": "Global Medical Device Nomenclature\n\nGlobal Medical Device Nomenclature (GMDN) is a system of internationally agreed generic descriptors used to identify all medical device products. This nomenclature is a naming system for products which include those used for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease or injury in humans.\n\nThe main purpose of the GMDN is to provide health authorities / regulators, health care providers, conformity assessment bodies and others with a single generic naming system.\n\nMedical device experts from around the world (manufacturers, healthcare authorities and regulators) compiled the GMDN, based on the international standard ISO 15225. The work was mandated by the European Commission in order to provide the necessary tool to carry out the implementation of the Medical Devices Directive, including the European databank for medical devices (Eudamed).\n\nIn the draft of the proposed Medical Device Regulation (from the European Commission) it states “To facilitate the functioning of the European Databank on medical devices (Eudamed), a medical device nomenclature should be available free of charge to manufacturers and other natural or legal persons obliged to use that nomenclature under this Regulation. Furthermore this nomenclature should be provided, to the maximum possible extent free of charge, also to other stakeholders.”\n\nThe GMDN is the current nomenclature used by Members States in the National Competent Authority Reports as part of the current EUDAMED system to exchange information on device safety. The GMDN is not yet specified for the UDI database system proposed in new European Regulations intended to be used by manufacturers of medical devices who have their own UDIs (unique device identifiers) and traceability. \n\nThe GMDN meets the need to identify medical devices at the global level, as identified in the Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF) that have since disbanded (2012) and replaced by the IMDRF\n\nGMDN is managed by the GMDN Agency, a non-profit organization and Registered Charity, which reports to its Board of Trustees, that represent medical device regulators and industry.\n\nThe GMDN term is in the form of a 5-digit numeric GMDN Code cross-referenced to a specific Term Name and Definition, with which all specific medical devices having substantially similar generic features, can be identified. The following is an example:\n\n\nThe GMDN term and other associated data is copyright protected and the GMDN is a Trademark.\n\nUniquely each GMDN term has a set of attributes, known as Collective Terms, which help to navigate the GMDN Database and aid the selection of a GMDN term by medical condition or product feature.\n\nThe GMDN is used by regulators, healthcare providers and others for activities such as medical device recalls, adverse event reporting and postmarket surveillance and monitoring, as well as inventory control and other healthcare management functions.\n\nThe GMDN Agency updates the GMDN utilizing member change requests, to add a new generic device term or to change an existing Term Name or Definition. The decisions are made by an international expert team, according to ISO 15225. The GMDN Agency releases updates to the GMDN on a daily basis, on their interactive website, the GMDN Database. Only Members have access to the GMDN Database and membership is priced according to organization type and size. The GMDN is available in English and other languages.\n\nThe GMDN is used in the European Databank on Medical Devices (Eudamed) which has been established by the European Commission to strengthen market surveillance and vigilance.\n\nThe GMDN has been identified as part of the 'minimum data set' for the proposed US FDA Unique Device Identification regulation for the registration of new Medical Devices intended for use in the United States. This follows the international consensus established by the International Medical Device Regulatory Forum (IMDRF).\n\nThe GMDN Agency has recently finalised the business principles that will form the basis of a long term cooperation with the IHTSDO. The Cooperation Agreement shall result in the use of the GMDN as the medical device component of SNOMED CT. This Agreement is consistent with the aims of both organisations to minimise duplication and to support harmonisation. The following objectives were agreed:\n\n\nThe Agreement will benefit patients across the world and all users of SNOMED CT and the GMDN in promoting comprehensive terminology based medical records, covering the needs of regulators, the medical device industry and healthcare professionals. The arrangement will enhance the application of care to individual patients for medical device, patient risk and safety use cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35019967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35019967", "title": "Hri (Buddhism)", "text": "Hri (Buddhism)\n\nHri (Sanskrit, also \"hri\"; Pali: \"hiri\"; Tibetan Wylie: \"ngo tsha shes pa\") is a Buddhist term translated as \"self-respect\" or \"conscientiousness\". It is defined as the attitude taking earnest care with regard to ones actions and refraining from non-virtuous actions. It is one of the virtuous mental factors within the Abhidharma teachings. \n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19424606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19424606", "title": "Human trophy taking in Mesoamerica", "text": "Human trophy taking in Mesoamerica\n\nMost of the ancient civilizations of Mesoamerica such as the Olmec, Maya, Mixtec, Zapotec and Aztec cultures practised some kind of taking of human trophies during warfare. Captives taken during war would often be taken to their captors' city-states where they would be ritually tortured and sacrificed. These practices are documented by a rich material of iconographic and archaeological evidence from across Mesoamerica.\n\nEvidence of the ritualistic sacrifice and taking human body parts as trophies in Maya civilization exists from as far back as the Middle Formative period (800 – 500 BC). The evidence consists of skeletal remains and depictions in Maya iconography, commonly showing acts of human sacrifice. Excavations at the non-Maya site of Teotihuacan have unearthed the remains of hundreds of bodies that are thought to represent a mass sacrifice at the Temple of the Feathered Serpent. At the Temple of the Moon, another excavation site, there were a number of decapitated remains found along with numerous bound bodies of headless males. Given these two examples of mass sacrificial sites, there is no reason why this could not have taken place in Maya society.\n\nWith that in mind, there are other possible explanations that are commonly used among the Maya. It is not unreasonable to think that some of these sites are examples of ancestral veneration. This was a selective social practice in which ancestors were considered a \nsubset of all the deceased and were the ones who validated political power, status and access to resources. There is also proof that the mortuary practices of the region were varied and once thought to be evidence of human sacrifice. They were commonly found in locations of tomb reuse and secondary burial practice.\n\nIt is believed for the most part, that the soldiers did not patrol in large armies; rather there were many smaller groups or raiding parties. Most of these battles were driven by the desire for domination and the intention to intimidate other cities. During this time it was not uncommon that the victors of a battle would take captives back to their cities and use them for ritual sacrifice. In some instances they would bind or hinder the captive so that he could not fairly compete in a winner-take-all ballcourt match. Herein, the loser would be beheaded and the victor would, in certain situations, keep his head as a trophy and confirm victory in order to establish his city's dominance.\n\nIn the Popul Vuh, the vision of human sacrifice and decapitation is abundantly clear and emphasized. However, in instances of decapitation, the sacrifice was intended to signify rebirth and creation. This theme is confirmed when the Hero Twins played the Lords of Death in a ball game match and ended up tricking the Lords of Death into decapitating themselves. With the Lords of Death out of the picture, the Hero Twins were able to resurrect their father, the Maize God. This shows the significance of sacrifice and decapitation in warfare as a means to reenact rebirth, in the Popul Vuh.\n\nMaya art and iconography is a major source to anthropologists' knowledge and beliefs about the culture and history of the Maya. For instance, at the site of Bonampak, photographer Giles Healy discovered exquisite murals showing a battle and its aftermath, including the torture of captives. Other examples of Maya art depicting sacrifice and torture include carved stone stelae, altars, and panels. There is evidence that this type of art was recorded on wood and other perishable media, but they have eroded with time.\n\nIconographic depictions of trophy heads tend to show the heads being suspended in midair, held by the hair, or even upside down. In addition they depict blood or possibly other fluids flowing from the neck, eyes or mouth. Holding a head by the hair is seen as a sign of disrespect. In Maya iconography, these heads are usually fastened upright with the eyes opened and are worn on a belt that is positioned on the small of the wearer's back. The actual act of decapitation in the iconography is rare but does appear from time to time. The most common place to see the decapitation of human heads being worn or presented as trophy heads are on painted cylinder vases of the Late Classic period and usually involve the Hero Twins or some type of Creation myth.\n\nIn Oaxaca there are various pre-Columbian figures in which high-ranking characters, warriors and ball players wear ritual and military paraphernalia, holding inverted heads with their loose, long hair hanging down. One of these figures can be seen in the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington. Javier Urcid writes that these trophies may have been \"soft parts of decapitated heads turned into relics to hang\" There are also several figures showing characters with facial skin on their faces: the skin of a flayed human. Urcid’s article in \"El Sacrificio Humano en la Tradición Religiosa Mesoamericana\" includes eight illustrations of these trophies in the southern west of Mexico, including a brazier depicting a ball player with a flayed facial mask, wearing a necklace of human bones and carrying a severed head.\n\nThe \"Relación Geográfica\" of 1580 mentions the festivity of the tlacaxipehualiztli in the context of human skin as trophies in Oaxaca: \"with rods they hit throughout the body until it swelled, and then flayed the bodies and washed the meat with hot water and ate it, and carried the skins in the nearby villages for begging.\"\n\nLos Mangales lies within the Salama Valley in the Northern Highlands of Guatemala. It has been estimated that this site was active from approximately 1000 until 400 BC and was the site of vast, elaborate burials. Three principal mounds entail the main composition of the site, (Str. D6-1) containing varied amounts of adult male crania that have been interpreted as trophy heads or possibly dismembered sacrificial retainers. In addition to the three principal burial mounds, there were multiple burial sites. In particular at burial site 6, there was conclusive evidence of human sacrifice, where were located at least 12 dismembered victims and three possible trophy heads. The heads were found lying inside the crypt with specific individuals. A common trend at this site is that the victims found outside the formal crypt were lying in the prone position (their wrists and ankles were bound tightly together and that they were faced down) and the individuals that were inside the crypt were in the supine position (face up and unbound). However, finding a body in the prone position does not necessarily mean that the individual was a victim of sacrifice. It is believed that finding isolated crania was seen as early evidence of trophy taking in the Maya region.\n\nEvidence of sacrifice and trophy taking was found at an evacuation site in El Chalchuapa, El Salvador. The remains of 33 individuals were found and had appeared to have been victims of ritual sacrifice that had spanned five different episodes of construction to the structure. Many of the individuals were found to be male and most were lying in the prone position. Of the individuals found it was noted that they were represented as crania and were determined to have been trophy heads. The others had a range of signs of mutilation, including: one individual was missing his/her head, two were cut in half at the waist, one individual was missing his/her legs and another was missing his/her feet. Given the age of the individuals, the absence of grave goods, the positions and placement of the bodies, the lack of grave preparation and the evidence for dismemberment, this site seems to show that these individuals were war captives and then used in a form of ritualistic sacrifice.\n\nCuello is a site that provides several examples of decapitation, dismemberment, and sacrifice of young to middle-aged males at public events. Here we see evidence of the sacrifice of children, one of whom appeared to have been decapitated demonstrating the incidence of decapitated individuals in common grounds and public structures. In most mass burials there seem to be primary individuals in the center, surrounded by the remains of others.\n\nIn Colha, Belize, archaeologists discovered a large pit next to a stairway near the center of a monumental structure (operation 2010). This \"Skull Pit\" contained the heads of around 30 individuals. Ten of these were children ranging in age from 6 months to 6 or 7 years old. The remaining 20 individuals were adults. There were cut marks on the crania and the remains were burnt, and the age grouping and the location of the pit has led to multiple conclusions on the reasons behind these sacrifices. One theory is that they were sacrificed as a part of a religious ceremony. Other hypotheses are that the victims were political prisoners treated with ritual violence or that they were ancestors of an elite lineage that was violently deposed.\n\nAt this excavation site in Mexico, archaeologists found roughly 72 males. Due to the evidence surrounding them they were determined to be soldiers. The individuals were placed in a series of highly structured graves that were below, and just outside, the pyramid. From the other evidence unearthed, it was found that each individual had between 7 and 11 human maxillae, or human jaw bones, in his possession. These maxillae were mostly worn around the arm, generally on the biceps of soldiers. This was seen as a testament of strength and power that proved that these individuals had been in multiple battles or campaigns. Along with the maxillae, the men had necklaces made of teeth, obsidian projectile points and slate disks located behind their lower back, which were commonly found on Teotihuacan military figures. This led the excavators to believe that these soldiers were of an elite class of warrior, and not just some semi-organized militia.\n\nAlong with the remains of apparent soldiers, there were also remains found of other males with rich offerings that would suggest they were members of higher social status. This evidence proved that even at an early stage of Teotihuacan’s existence there was large scale human sacrifice as well as warfare-related symbolism.\n"}
{"id": "2309323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2309323", "title": "Idiosyncrasy", "text": "Idiosyncrasy\n\nAn idiosyncrasy is an unusual feature of a person (though there are also other uses, see below). It can also mean an odd habit. The term is often used to express eccentricity or peculiarity. A synonym may be \"quirk\".\n\nThe term \"idiosyncrasy\" originates from Greek \"idiosynkrasía\", \"a peculiar temperament, habit of body\" (from \"idios\", \"one's own\", \"syn\", \"with\" and \"krasis\", \"government\") or literally \"self-ruled\".\n\nThe term can also be applied to symbols or words. \"Idiosyncratic symbols\" mean one thing for a particular person, as a blade could mean war, but to someone else, it could symbolize a surgery.\n\nIn phonology, an \"idiosyncratic property\" contrasts with a \"systematic regularity\". While systematic regularities in the sound system of a language are useful for identifying phonological rules during analysis of the forms morphemes can take, idiosyncratic properties are those whose occurrence is \"not\" determined by those rules. For example, the fact that the English word \"cab\" starts with a /k/ is an idiosyncratic property; on the other hand that its vowel is long is a systematic regularity, as it arises from the fact that final consonant is voiced rather than voiceless.\n\nIdiosyncrasy defined the way physicians conceived diseases in the 19th century. They considered each disease as a unique condition, related to each patient. This understanding began to change in the 1870s, when discoveries made by researchers in Europe permitted the advent of a \"scientific medicine\", a precursor to the evidence-based medicine that is the standard of practice today. \n\nThe term idiosyncratic drug reaction denotes an aberrant or bizarre reaction or hypersensitivity to a substance, without connection to the pharmacology of the drug. It is what is known as a Type B reaction. Type B reactions have the following characteristics: They are usually unpredictable, might not be picked up by toxicological screening, not necessarily dose-related, incidence and morbidity low but mortality is high. Type B reactions are most commonly immunological (e.g. penicillin allergy)\n\nIn psychiatry, the term means a specific and unique mental condition of a patient, often accompanied by neologisms. In psychoanalysis and behaviorism, it is used for the personal way a given individual reacts, perceives and experiences a common situation: a certain dish made of meat may cause nostalgic memories in one person and disgust in another. These reactions are called \"idiosyncratic\".\n\nIn portfolio theory, risks of price changes due to the unique circumstances of a specific security, as opposed to the overall market, are called \"idiosyncratic risks\". This specific risk, also called unsystematic, can be nulled out of a portfolio through diversification. Pooling multiple securities means the specific risks cancel out. In complete markets, there is no compensation for idiosyncratic risk—that is, a security's idiosyncratic risk does not matter for its price. For instance, in a complete market in which the capital asset pricing model holds, the price of a security is determined by the amount of systematic risk in its returns. Net income received, or losses suffered, by a landlord from renting of one or two properties is subject to idiosyncratic risk due to the numerous things that can happen to real property and variable behavior of tenants.\n\nAccording to one macroeconomic model including a financial sector, hedging idiosyncratic risk can be self-defeating as it leads to higher systemic risk, as it takes on more leverage. This makes the system less stable. Thus, while securitisation in principle reduces the costs of idiosyncratic shocks it ends up amplifying systemic risks in equilibrium.\n\nIn econometrics, \"idiosyncratic error\" is used to describe error from panel data that both changes over time and across units (individuals, firms, cities, etc.)\n\n"}
{"id": "6837117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6837117", "title": "Informative modelling", "text": "Informative modelling\n\nInformative modelling is an interdisciplinary methodological approach \nlinking information technologies with architectural analysis and modelling \n(at various scales, from architectural elements to buildings and structures). \nInformative modelling aims at improving the way information and evidences about how architectural objects evolved through time can be visually displayed.\n\nInformative modelling applies to the study of historic architecture, where objects have most often been widely transformed, and consequently where what is known about objects remains partial. As a consequence, whereas in traditional architectural modelling a realistic representation \nof objects is considered as an end, in the informative modelling methodology the representation of architectural objects is used primarily as support for information search and visualisation, reasoning and cognition:\nit does not strive for realism.\n\nAbstraction (the \"infovis\" legacy) and figuration (the \"architectural representation\" legacy) are integrated as alternative/mixable modes of representation, allowing partial knowledge to be communicated and important notions in historic sciences such as data uncertainty to be conveyed graphically.\n\nInformative modelling puts the data about evolutions of architectural artefacts first, \nand provides rules for outputting 2D/3D graphics thought to become sustainable investigation \nand visualization tools (knowledge and discovery tools, as J.Bertin says it), striving for the readability \nof a dynamic geographical map. Examples of such rules are accessibility of the underlying documentary \njustification (archives, research material, etc.), information credibility assessment, visual underlining \nof lacking information, relation to an exogenous theoretical model of architectural elements, dynamic visualisation, \nresearch process progress assessment, etc.\n\nInformative modelling has roots in architectural modelling, , , Georeference, database, \nscientific modelling, scientific visualization, knowledge visualization, Knowledge management, information retrieval, Information science, Computer graphics, Information graphics, \nand intersects methods and issues stemming from these disciplines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30975321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30975321", "title": "Les amis du bus des femmes", "text": "Les amis du bus des femmes\n\nLes amis du bus des femmes is a French association established in 1990 by former sex workers as a support group for sex workers. \n\nThe original initiative stemmed from a need to educate sex workers on AIDS. It quickly became established as a bridging organisation between sex workers on the street and the provision of medical, social and administrative services. Its Paris headquarters is open daily to the population it serves. In addition it has eight permanent mobile units (buses) operating day and night in the areas frequented by sex workers in the capital, staffed by organisational and health professionals.\n\nThe principal mission of the association, whose administration consists of both sex workers and non-sex workers, is to work with and for sex workers to prevent HIV, hepatitis and sexually transmitted diseases. They distribute condoms and encourage sex workers to visit the office to get help with administrative, medical, and social needs, and conducts job searches for those who decide to transition out of sex work. Emphasis is placed on helping workers access their health, social and human rights. The objective is to enable workers to develop an environment that supports an active role for them in stating their needs and demands. In working with and for sex workers, the association fights against discrimination, social exclusion and human trafficking.\n\nThe association opposes abolitionism and its objective to eradicate sex work, and recognizes that some women have freely chosen to engage in sex work and that that choice must be respected. The association deals with both voluntary and involuntary sex workers, such as those trafficked from Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.\n\nCurrently the association has fourteen employees including doctors and nurses, facilitators and an employment counsellor. It is funded from government grants which are allocated by agencies such as DDASS Paris (Direction départementale des Affaires sanitaires et sociales), the Paris conseil général, the CPAM de Paris (Caisse primaire d'assurance maladie) and the Conseil régional. The project also receives funding from the European Commission's Daphne Funding Programme.\n\nThe association has been politically active, for instance opposing the Sarkozy laws on solicitation. Claude Boucher appeared for them before the senate hearings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55122047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55122047", "title": "Lynching at Włodowo", "text": "Lynching at Włodowo\n\nThe lynching at Włodowo took place in a village of Włodowo in North-Eastern Poland on 1 July 2005, when a group of local men killed a criminal Józef \"Ciechanek\" Ciechanowicz who was terrorizing the community.\n\nCiechanowicz was a 60 year old recidivist who spent over 30 years in prison, for batteries, thefts and rapes. During breaks between his times he was extorting pensions from elder people, bullying other residents of Włodowo and Brzydowo villages and robbing local shops. According to relations of his neighbors, he was often wandering around while drunk, with an axe or a cleaver in his hand, mumbling that he will kill someone eventually, because he wants to go back home (prison). The police did not always respond to calls, and when they did, their intervention had no effect.\n\nOn the day of the event, Ciechanowicz entered the yard of Winek's family house where he saw Jagoda Rybak, daughter of his former concubine. The woman took her mother in hiding, after he had wounded her with screwdriver. Ciechanowicz was upset because he could no longer seize pension of her. Earlier he also broke a bottle on Jagoda’s head. Tomasz Winek, owner of the house, ordered him to leave but instead of retreating, Ciechanowicz drawed beetroot cleaver. Winek took a wooden bat from the pile and clashed with Ciechanowicz who swinged with a cleaver aiming at Winek's head, who saved it with his hand, receiving a gash. Winek's neighbour came to help and forced Ciechanowicz to flee. In the meantime, Winek's wife called the police but heard that there are no police cars available at the moment. Later on they drove to Dobre Miasto (nearby town) and visited medical and police station. Police officers were still refusing to accept crime's submission and send any officers to Włodowo, claiming that none of them are available. After they returned, a group of locals (including two Winek's brothers) gathered. When Ciechanowicz returned, waiving his cleaver and threatening that he will kill \"you all and your brats\" (four years old Winek's son was playing in the yard at the time), the group of men started to chase him. They caught him in the hollow near the forest and started to beat with bats, shovels and car spring. Though they confessed later, that he was still alive when they left him, he died from wounds. Later on that day other village dwellers were visiting the place, to ensure themselves if Ciechanowicz is dead.\n\nAfter the incident Tomasz Winek and his brothers Mirosław and Krzysztof were arrested for a short period but they were released by the prosecutor's decision on 7 November 2005. People of nearby villages gathered money for the best advocate for accused ones. On 23 October 2007 they were sentenced for 2 years in prison with the suspension for the probation period of 3 years. However on 15 January 2009, appeal court changed the ruling to 4 years of prison, without suspension. On 18 December 2009, they were eventually pardoned by the president of Poland Lech Kaczyński - their sentence was put into the suspension for the period of 10 years of probation.\n\nOther three persons involved into lynching received minor sentences in suspension for battery and desecration of a corpse.\n\nTwo police officers from Dobre Miasto police station who did not react to calls for help also received prison sentences in suspension, for failure in complying to their duty tasks. One of them was dismissed from service and the other one was downgraded. The court did not accept their defense clarifications that they had no means to react and stressed, that they could ask nearby police stations and regional HQ to send reinforcements.\n\nIn January 2012 Winek brothers have been apprehended again for 48 hours in relation with the disappearance of a man living in their village. They were released without setting an accusation and later on court ruled financial compensation for them, evaluating the police action as “ungrounded show of power”.\n\nThe event was pictured in television series \"Pitbull\" and \"Kryminalni\". It was also an inspiration for the Polish thriller movie \"Lincz\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2453067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453067", "title": "Lê Thị Hồng Liên", "text": "Lê Thị Hồng Liên\n\nLê Thị Hồng Liên is a Christian teacher from Vietnam. She taught for \nthe Mennonite Church in Vietnam. She was arrested in June 2004 along with other members of her church.\n\nShe was released from Bien Hoa Mental Hospital on April 28, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "42650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42650", "title": "Marcel Duchamp", "text": "Marcel Duchamp\n\nHenri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp (; ; 28 July 1887 – 2 October 1968) was a French-American painter, sculptor, chess player, and writer whose work is associated with Cubism, Dada, and conceptual art, although he was careful about his use of the term Dada and was not directly associated with Dada groups. Duchamp is commonly regarded, along with Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse, as one of the three artists who helped to define the revolutionary developments in the plastic arts in the opening decades of the 20th century, responsible for significant developments in painting and sculpture. Duchamp has had an immense impact on twentieth-century and twenty first-century art, and he had a seminal influence on the development of conceptual art. By World War I, he had rejected the work of many of his fellow artists (such as Henri Matisse) as \"retinal\" art, intended only to please the eye. Instead, Duchamp wanted to use art to serve the mind.\n\nMarcel Duchamp was born at Blainville-Crevon in Normandy, France, and grew up in a family that enjoyed cultural activities. The art of painter and engraver , his maternal grandfather, filled the house, and the family liked to play chess, read books, paint, and make music together.\n\nOf Eugene and Lucie Duchamp's seven children, one died as an infant and four became successful artists. Marcel Duchamp was the brother of:\n\nAs a child, with his two elder brothers already away from home at school in Rouen, Duchamp was closer to his sister Suzanne, who was a willing accomplice in games and activities conjured by his fertile imagination. At eight years old, Duchamp followed in his brothers' footsteps when he left home and began schooling at the Lycée Pierre-Corneille, in Rouen. Two other students in his class also became well-known artists and lasting friends: Robert Antoine Pinchon and Pierre Dumont. For the next eight years, he was locked into an educational regime which focused on intellectual development. Though he was not an outstanding student, his best subject was mathematics and he won two mathematics prizes at the school. He also won a prize for drawing in 1903, and at his commencement in 1904 he won a coveted first prize, validating his recent decision to become an artist.\n\nHe learned academic drawing from a teacher who unsuccessfully attempted to \"protect\" his students from Impressionism, Post-Impressionism, and other avant-garde influences. However, Duchamp's true artistic mentor at the time was his brother Jacques Villon, whose fluid and incisive style he sought to imitate. At 14, his first serious art attempts were drawings and watercolors depicting his sister Suzanne in various poses and activities. That summer he also painted landscapes in an Impressionist style using oils.\n\nDuchamp's early art works align with Post-Impressionist styles. He experimented with classical techniques and subjects. When he was later asked about what had influenced him at the time, Duchamp cited the work of Symbolist painter Odilon Redon, whose approach to art was not outwardly anti-academic, but quietly individual.\nHe studied art at the Académie Julian from 1904 to 1905, but preferred playing billiards to attending classes. During this time Duchamp drew and sold cartoons which reflected his ribald humor. Many of the drawings use verbal puns (sometimes spanning multiple languages), visual puns, or both. Such play with words and symbols engaged his imagination for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1905, he began his compulsory military service with the 39th Infantry Regiment, working for a printer in Rouen. There he learned typography and printing processes—skills he would use in his later work.\n\nDue to his eldest brother Jacques' membership in the prestigious Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture Duchamp's work was exhibited in the 1908 Salon d'Automne, and the following year in the Salon des Indépendants. Fauves and Paul Cézanne's proto-Cubism influenced his paintings, although the critic Guillaume Apollinaire—who was eventually to become a friend—criticized what he called \"Duchamp's very ugly nudes\" (\"les nus très vilains de Duchamp\"). Duchamp also became lifelong friends with exuberant artist Francis Picabia after meeting him at the 1911 Salon d'Automne, and Picabia proceeded to introduce him to a lifestyle of fast cars and \"high\" living.\n\nIn 1911, at Jacques' home in Puteaux, the brothers hosted a regular discussion group with Cubist artists including Picabia, Robert Delaunay, Fernand Léger, Roger de La Fresnaye, Albert Gleizes, Jean Metzinger, Juan Gris, and Alexander Archipenko. Poets and writers also participated. The group came to be known as the Puteaux Group, or the Section d'Or. Uninterested in the Cubists' seriousness, or in their focus on visual matters, Duchamp did not join in discussions of Cubist theory, and gained a reputation of being shy. However, that same year he painted in a Cubist style, and added an impression of motion by using repetitive imagery.\n\nDuring this period Duchamp's fascination with transition, change, movement, and distance became manifest, and as many artists of the time, he was intrigued with the concept of depicting the fourth dimension in art. His painting \"Sad Young Man on a Train\" embodies this concern:\n\nFirst, there's the idea of the movement of the train, and then that of the sad young man who is in a corridor and who is moving about; thus there are two parallel movements corresponding to each other. Then, there is the distortion of the young man—I had called this \"elementary parallelism\". It was a formal decomposition; that is, linear elements following each other like parallels and distorting the object. The object is completely stretched out, as if elastic. The lines follow each other in parallels, while changing subtly to form the movement, or the form of the young man in question. I also used this procedure in the \"Nude Descending a Staircase\".\n\nIn his 1911, \"Portrait of Chess Players\" (\"Portrait de joueurs d'échecs\") there is the Cubist overlapping frames and multiple perspectives of his two brothers playing chess, but to that Duchamp added elements conveying the unseen mental activity of the players. (Notably, \"échec\" is French for \"failure\".)\n\nWorks from this time also included his first \"machine\" painting, \"Coffee Mill (Moulin à café)\" (1911), which he gave to his brother Raymond Duchamp-Villon. The later more figurative machine painting of 1914, \"Chocolate Grinder\" (\"Broyeuse de chocolat\"), prefigures the mechanism incorporated into the \"Large Glass\" on which he began work in New York the following year.\n\nDuchamp's first work to provoke significant controversy was \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\" \"(Nu descendant un escalier n° 2)\" (1912). The painting depicts the mechanistic motion of a nude, with superimposed facets, similar to motion pictures. It shows elements of both the fragmentation and synthesis of the Cubists, and the movement and dynamism of the Futurists.\n\nHe first submitted the piece to appear at the Cubist Salon des Indépendants, but Albert Gleizes (according to Duchamp in an interview with Pierre Cabanne, p. 31) asked Duchamp's brothers to have him voluntarily withdraw the painting, or to paint over the title that he had painted on the work and rename it something else. Duchamp's brothers did approach him with Gleizes' request, but Duchamp quietly refused. However, there was no jury at the Salon des Indépendants and Gleizes was in no position to reject the painting. The controversy, according to art historian Peter Brooke, was not whether the work should be hung or not, but whether it should be hung with the Cubist group.\n\nOf the incident Duchamp later recalled, \"I said nothing to my brothers. But I went immediately to the show and took my painting home in a taxi. It was really a turning point in my life, I can assure you. I saw that I would not be very much interested in groups after that.\" Yet Duchamp did appear in the illustrations to \"Du \"Cubisme\"\", he participated in the \"La Maison Cubiste (Cubist House)\", organized by the designer André Mare for the Salon d'Automne of 1912 (a few months after the Indépendants); he signed the Section d'Or invitation and participated in the Section d'Or exhibition during the fall of 1912. The impression is, Brooke writes, \"it was precisely because he wished to remain part of the group that he withdrew the painting; and that, far from being ill treated by the group, he was given a rather privileged position, probably through the patronage of Picabia\".\n\nThe painting was exhibited for the first time at Galeries Dalmau, \"Exposició d'Art Cubista\", Barcelona, 1912; the first exhibition of Cubism in Spain Duchamp later submitted the painting to the 1913 \"Armory Show\" in New York City. In addition to displaying works of American artists, this show was the first major exhibition of modern trends coming out of Paris, encompassing experimental styles of the European avant-garde, including Fauvism, Cubism, and Futurism. American show-goers, accustomed to realistic art, were scandalized, and the \"Nude\" was at the center of much of the controversy.\n\nAt about this time, Duchamp read Max Stirner's philosophical tract, \"The Ego and Its Own\", the study which he considered another turning point in his artistic and intellectual development. He called it \"a remarkable book ... which advances no formal theories, but just keeps saying that the ego is always there in everything.\"\n\nWhile in Munich in 1912, he painted the last of his Cubist-like paintings. He started \"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even\" image, and began making plans for \"The Large Glass\" – scribbling short notes to himself, sometimes with hurried sketches. It would be more than ten years before this piece was completed. Not much else is known about the two-month stay in Munich except that the friend he visited was intent on showing him the sights and the nightlife, and that he was influenced by the works of the sixteenth century German painter Lucas Cranach the Elder in Munich's famed Alte Pinakothek, known for its Old Master paintings. Duchamp recalled that he took the short walk to visit this museum daily. Duchamp scholars have long recognized in Cranach the subdued ochre and brown color range Duchamp later employed.\n\nThe same year, Duchamp also attended a performance of a stage adaptation of Raymond Roussel's 1910 novel, \"Impressions d'Afrique,\" which featured plots that turned in on themselves, word play, surrealistic sets and humanoid machines. He credited the drama with having radically changed his approach to art, and having inspired him to begin the creation of his \"The Bride Stripped Bare By Her Bachelors, Even\", also known as \"The Large Glass\". Work on \"The Large Glass\" continued into 1913, with his invention of inventing a repertoire of forms. He made notes, sketches and painted studies, and even drew some of his ideas on the wall of his apartment.\n\nToward the end of 1912, he traveled with Picabia, Apollinaire and Gabrielle Buffet-Picabia through the Jura mountains, an adventure that Buffet-Picabia described as one of their \"forays of demoralization, which were also forays of witticism and clownery ... the disintegration of the concept of art\". Duchamp's notes from the trip avoid logic and sense, and have a surrealistic, mythical connotation.\n\nDuchamp painted few canvases after 1912, and in those he did, he attempted to remove \"painterly\" effects, and to use a technical drawing approach instead.\n\nHis broad interests led him to an exhibition of aviation technology during this period, after which Duchamp said to his friend Constantin Brâncuși, \"Painting is washed up. Who will ever do anything better than that propeller? Tell me, can you do that?\". Brâncuși later sculpted bird forms. U.S. Customs officials mistook them for aviation parts and attempted to collect import duties on them.\n\nIn 1913, Duchamp withdrew from painting circles and began working as a librarian in the Bibliothèque Sainte-Geneviève to be able to earn a living wage while concentrating on scholarly realms and working on his \"Large Glass\". He studied math and physics – areas where exciting new discoveries were taking place. The theoretical writings of Henri Poincaré particularly intrigued and inspired Duchamp. Poincaré postulated that the laws believed to govern matter were created solely by the minds that \"understood\" them and that no theory could be considered \"true\". \"The things themselves are not what science can reach..., but only the relations between things. Outside of these relations there is no knowable reality\", Poincaré wrote in 1902. Reflecting the influence of Poincaré's writings, Duchamp tolerated any interpretation of his art by regarding it as the creation of the person who formulated it, not as truth.\n\nDuchamp's own art-science experiments began during his tenure at the library. To make one of his favorite pieces, \"3 Standard Stoppages\" (\"3 stoppages étalon\"), he dropped three 1-meter lengths of thread onto prepared canvases, one at a time, from a height of 1 meter. The threads landed in three random undulating positions. He varnished them into place on the blue-black canvas strips and attached them to glass. He then cut three wood slats into the shapes of the curved strings, and put all the pieces into a croquet box. Three small leather signs with the title printed in gold were glued to the \"stoppage\" backgrounds. The piece appears to literally follow Poincaré's \"School of the Thread\", part of a book on classical mechanics.\n\nIn his studio he mounted a bicycle wheel upside down onto a stool, spinning it occasionally just to watch it. Although it is often assumed that the \"Bicycle Wheel\" represents the first of Duchamp's \"Readymades\", this particular installation was never submitted for any art exhibition, and it was eventually lost. However, initially, the wheel was simply placed in the studio to create atmosphere: \"I enjoyed looking at it just as I enjoy looking at the flames dancing in a fireplace.\"\nAfter World War I started in August 1914, with his brothers and many friends in military service and himself exempted (due to a heart murmur), Duchamp felt uncomfortable in Paris. Meanwhile, \"Nude Descending a Staircase No. 2\" had scandalized Americans at the Armory Show, and helped secure the sale of all four of his paintings in the exhibition. Thus, being able to finance the trip, Duchamp decided to emigrate to the United States in 1915. To his surprise, he found he was a celebrity when he arrived in New York in 1915, where he quickly befriended art patron Katherine Dreier and artist Man Ray. Duchamp's circle included art patrons Louise and Walter Conrad Arensberg, actress and artist Beatrice Wood and Francis Picabia, as well as other avant-garde figures. Though he spoke little English, in the course of supporting himself by giving French lessons, and through some library work, he quickly learned the language. Duchamp became part of an artist colony in Ridgefield, New Jersey, across the Hudson River from New York City.\n\nFor two years the Arensbergs, who would remain his friends and patrons for 42 years, were the landlords of his studio. In lieu of rent, they agreed that his payment would be \"The Large Glass\". An art gallery offered Duchamp $10,000 per year in exchange for all of his yearly production, but he declined the offer, preferring to continue his work on \"The Large Glass\".\n\nDuchamp created the Société Anonyme in 1920, along with Katherine Dreier and Man Ray. This was the beginning of his lifelong involvement in art dealing and collecting. The group collected modern art works, and arranged modern art exhibitions and lectures throughout the 1930s.\n\nBy this time Walter Pach, one of the coordinators of the 1913 Armory Show, sought Duchamp's advice on modern art. Beginning with Société Anonyme, Dreier also depended on Duchamp's counsel in gathering her collection, as did Arensberg. Later Peggy Guggenheim, Museum of Modern Art directors Alfred Barr and James Johnson Sweeney consulted with Duchamp on their modern art collections and shows.\n\nDada or Dadaism was an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century. It began in Zurich, Switzerland in 1916, spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter. To quote Dona Budd's \"The Language of Art Knowledge\",\n\nDada was born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I. This international movement was begun by a group of artists and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich. Dada rejected reason and logic, prizing nonsense, irrationality, and intuition. The origin of the name Dada is unclear; some believe that it is a nonsensical word. Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco's frequent use of the words da, da, meaning yes, yes in the Romanian language. Another theory says that the name \"Dada\" came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada', a French word for 'hobbyhorse'.\n\nThe movement primarily involved visual arts, literature, poetry, art manifestoes, art theory, theatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works. In addition to being anti-war, Dada was also anti-bourgeois and had political affinities with the radical left.\n\nDada activities included public gatherings, demonstrations, and publication of art/literary journals; passionate coverage of art, politics, and culture were topics often discussed in a variety of media. Key figures in the movement, apart from Duchamp, included: Hugo Ball, Emmy Hennings, Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, Johannes Baader, Tristan Tzara, Francis Picabia, Richard Huelsenbeck, Georg Grosz, John Heartfield, Beatrice Wood, Kurt Schwitters, and Hans Richter, among others. The movement influenced later styles, such as the avant-garde and downtown music movements, and groups including surrealism, Nouveau réalisme, pop art, and Fluxus.\n\nDada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry, a starting point for performance art, a prelude to postmodernism, an influence on pop art, a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism.\n\nNew York Dada had a less serious tone than that of European Dadaism, and was not a particularly organized venture. Duchamp's friend Francis Picabia connected with the Dada group in Zürich, bringing to New York the Dadaist ideas of absurdity and \"anti-art\". Duchamp and Picabia first met in September 1911 at the Salon d'Automne in Paris, where they were both exhibiting. Duchamp showed a larger version of his \"Young Man and Girl in Spring\" 1911, a work that had an Edenic theme and a thinly veiled sexuality also found in Picabia's contemporaneous \"Adam and Eve\" 1911. According to Duchamp, \"our friendship began right there\". A group met almost nightly at the Arensberg home, or caroused in Greenwich Village. Together with Man Ray, Duchamp contributed his ideas and humor to the New York activities, many of which ran concurrent with the development of his Readymades and \"The Large Glass\".\n\nThe most prominent example of Duchamp's association with Dada was his submission of \"Fountain\", a urinal, to the Society of Independent Artists exhibit in 1917. Artworks in the Independent Artists shows were not selected by jury, and all pieces submitted were displayed. However, the show committee insisted that \"Fountain\" was not art, and rejected it from the show. This caused an uproar among the Dadaists, and led Duchamp to resign from the board of the Independent Artists.\n\nAlong with Henri-Pierre Roché and Beatrice Wood, Duchamp published a Dada magazine in New York, entitled \"The Blind Man\", which included art, literature, humor and commentary.\n\nWhen he returned to Paris after World War I, Duchamp did not participate in the Dada group.\n\n\"Readymades\" were found objects which Duchamp chose and presented as art. In 1913, Duchamp installed a \"Bicycle Wheel\" in his studio. However, the idea of \"Readymades\" did not fully develop until 1915. The idea was to question the very notion of Art, and the adoration of art, which Duchamp found \"unnecessary\".\n\n\"Bottle Rack\" (1914), a bottle drying rack signed by Duchamp, is considered to be the first \"pure\" readymade. \"Prelude to a Broken Arm\" (1915), a snow shovel, also called \"In Advance of the Broken Arm\", followed soon after. His \"Fountain\", a urinal signed with the pseudonym \"R. Mutt\", shocked the art world in 1917. \"Fountain\" was selected in 2004 as \"the most influential artwork of the 20th century\" by 500 renowned artists and historians.\n\nIn 1919, Duchamp made a parody of the \"Mona Lisa\" by adorning a cheap reproduction of the painting with a mustache and goatee. To this he added the inscription \"L.H.O.O.Q.\", a phonetic game which, when read out loud in French quickly sounds like \"Elle a chaud au cul\". This can be translated as \"She has a hot ass,\" implying that the woman in the painting is in a state of sexual excitement and availability. It may also have been intended as a Freudian joke, referring to Leonardo da Vinci's alleged homosexuality. Duchamp gave a \"loose\" translation of L.H.O.O.Q. as \"there is fire down below\" in a late interview with Arturo Schwarz. According to Rhonda Roland Shearer, the apparent \"Mona Lisa\" reproduction is in fact a copy modeled partly on Duchamp's own face. Research published by Shearer also speculates that Duchamp himself may have created some of the objects which he claimed to be \"found objects\".\n\nDuchamp worked on his complex Futurism-inspired piece \"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (The Large Glass)\" from 1915 to 1923, except for periods in Buenos Aires and Paris in 1918–1920. He executed the work on two panes of glass with materials such as lead foil, fuse wire, and dust. It combines chance procedures, plotted perspective studies, and laborious craftsmanship. He published notes for the piece, \"The Green Box\", intended to complement the visual experience. They reflect the creation of unique rules of physics, and a mythology which describes the work. He stated that his \"hilarious picture\" is intended to depict the erotic encounter between a bride and her nine bachelors.\n\nA performance of the stage adaptation of Roussel's novel \"Impressions d'Afrique,\" which Duchamp attended in 1912, inspired the piece. Notes, sketches and plans for the work were drawn on his studio walls as early as 1913. In order to concentrate on the work free from material obligations, Duchamp found work as a librarian while living in France. After immigrating to the United States in 1915, he began work on the piece financed by the support of the Arensbergs.\n\nThe piece is partly constructed as a retrospective of Duchamp's works, including a three-dimensional reproduction of his earlier paintings \"Bride\" (1912), \"Chocolate Grinder\" (1914) and \"Glider containing a water mill in neighboring metals\" (1913–1915), which has led to numerous interpretations. The work was formally declared \"Unfinished\" in 1923. Returning from its first public exhibition in a shipping crate, the glass suffered a large crack. Duchamp repaired it, but left the smaller cracks in the glass intact, accepting the chance element as a part of the piece.\n\nJoseph Nechvatal has cast a considerable light on \"The Large Glass\" by noting the autoerotic implications of both bachelorhood and the repetitive, frenetic machine; he then discerns a larger constellation of themes by insinuating that autoeroticsm — and with the machine as omnipresent partner and practitioner — opens out into a subversive pan-sexuality as expressed elsewhere in Duchamp's work and career, in that a trance-inducing pleasure becomes the operative principle as opposed to the dictates of the traditional male-female coupling; and he as well documents the existence of this theme cluster throughout modernism, starting with Rodin's controversial Monument to Balzac, and culminating in a Duchampian vision of a techno-universe in which one and all can find themselves welcomed.\n\nUntil 1969 when the Philadelphia Museum of Art revealed Duchamp's \"Étant donnés\" tableau, \"The Large Glass\" was thought to have been his last major work.\n\nDuchamp's interest in kinetic works can be discerned as early as the notes for \"The Large Glass\" and the \"Bicycle Wheel\" readymade, and despite losing interest in \"retinal art,\" he retained interest in visual phenomena. In 1920, with help from Man Ray, Duchamp built a motorized sculpture, \"Rotative plaques verre, optique de précision\" (\"Rotary Glass Plates, Precision Optics\"). The piece, which he did not consider to be art, involved a motor to spin pieces of rectangular glass on which were painted segments of a circle. When the apparatus spins, an optical illusion occurs, where the segments appear to be closed concentric circles. Man Ray set up equipment to photograph the initial experiment, but when they turned the machine for the second time, a belt broke, and caught a piece of the glass, which after glancing off Man Ray's head, shattered into bits.\n\nAfter moving back to Paris in 1923, at André Breton's urging, with financing by Jacques Doucet, Duchamp built another optical device based on the first one, \"Rotative Demisphère, optique de précision\" (Rotary Demisphere, Precision Optics). This time the optical element was a globe cut in half, with black concentric circles painted on it. When it spins, the circles appear to move backward and forward in space. Duchamp asked that Doucet not exhibit the apparatus as art.\n\n\"Rotoreliefs\" were the next phase of Duchamp's spinning works. To make the optical \"play toys\", he painted designs on flat cardboard circles and spun them on a phonographic turntable. When spinning, the flat disks appeared three-dimensional. He had a printer produce 500 sets of six of the designs, and set up a booth at a 1935 Paris inventors' show to sell them. The venture was a financial disaster, but some optical scientists thought they might be of use in restoring three-dimensional stereoscopic sight to people who have lost vision in one eye. In collaboration with Man Ray and Marc Allégret, Duchamp filmed early versions of the \"Rotoreliefs\" and they named the film, \"Anémic Cinéma\" (1926). Later, in Alexander Calder's studio in 1931, while looking at the sculptor's kinetic works, Duchamp suggested that these should be called \"mobiles\". Calder agreed to use this novel term in his upcoming show. To this day, sculptures of this type are called \"mobiles\".\n\nBetween 1912 and 1915, Duchamp worked with various musical ideas. At least three pieces have survived: two compositions and a note for a musical happening. The two compositions are based on chance operations. \"Erratum Musical\", written for three voices, was published in 1934. \"La Mariée mise à nu par ses célibataires même. Erratum Musical\" is unfinished and was never published or exhibited during Duchamp's lifetime. According to the manuscript, the piece was intended for a mechanical instrument \"in which the virtuoso intermediary is suppressed\". The manuscript also contains a description for \"An apparatus automatically recording fragmented musical periods,\" consisting of a funnel, several open-end cars and a set of numbered balls. These pieces predate John Cage's \"Music of Changes\" (1951), which is often considered the first modern piece to be conceived largely through random procedures.\n\nIn 1968, Duchamp and John Cage appeared together at a concert entitled \"Reunion\", playing a game of chess and composing Aleatoric music by triggering a series of photoelectric cells underneath the chessboard.\n\n\"Rrose Sélavy\", also spelled Rose Sélavy, was one of Duchamp's pseudonyms. The name, a pun, sounds like the French phrase \"Eros, c'est la vie\", which may be translated as \"Eros, such is life.\" It has also been read as \"arroser la vie\" (\"to make a toast to life\"). Sélavy emerged in 1921 in a series of photographs by Man Ray showing Duchamp dressed as a woman. Through the 1920s Man Ray and Duchamp collaborated on more photos of Sélavy. Duchamp later used the name as the byline on written material and signed several creations with it.\n\nDuchamp used the name in the title of at least one sculpture, \"Why Not Sneeze Rose Selavy?\" (1921). The sculpture, a type of readymade called an assemblage, consists of an oral thermometer, a couple of dozen small cubes of marble resembling sugar cubes and a cuttlefish bone inside a birdcage. Sélavy also appears on the label of \"Belle Haleine, Eau de Voilette\" (1921), a readymade that is a perfume bottle in the original box. Duchamp also signed his film \"Anemic Cinema\" (1926) with the Sélavy name.\n\nThe inspiration for the name Rrose Sélavy has been thought to be Belle da Costa Greene, J.P. Morgan's librarian at The Morgan Library & Museum (formerly The Pierpont Morgan Library) who, following his death, became the Library's director, working there for a total of forty-three years. Empowered by J.P. Morgan, and then by his son Jack, Greene built the collection buying and selling rare manuscripts, books and art.\n\nRrose Sélavy, and the other pseudonyms Duchamp used, may be read as a comment on the fallacy of romanticizing the conscious individuality or subjectivity of the artist, a theme that is also a prominent subtext of the Readymades. Duchamp said in an interview, \"You think you're doing something entirely your own, and a year later you look at it and you see actually the roots of where your art comes from without your knowing it at all.\"\n\nFrom 1922 the name Rrose Sélavy also started appearing in a series of aphorisms, puns, and spoonerisms by the French surrealist poet Robert Desnos. Desnos tried to portray Rrose Sélavy as a long-lost aristocrat and rightful queen of France. Aphorism 13 paid homage to Marcel Duchamp: \"Rrose Sélavy connaît bien le marchand du sel\" ‒ in English: \"Rrose Sélavy knows the merchant of salt well\"; in French the final words sound like Mar-champ Du-cel. Note that the 'salt seller' aphorism – \"mar-chand-du-sel\" – is a phonetic rearrangement of the syllables in the artist's name: \"mar-cel-du-champ.\" (Duchamp's compiled notes are entitled, 'Salt Seller'.) In 1939 a collection of these aphorisms was published under the name of Rrose Sélavy, entitled, \"Poils et coups de pieds en tous genres\".\n\nIn 1918, Duchamp took leave of the New York art scene, interrupting his work on the \"Large Glass\", and went to Buenos Aires, where he remained for nine months and often played chess. He carved his own chess set from wood with help from a local craftsman who made the knights. He moved to Paris in 1919, and then back to the United States in 1920. Upon his return to Paris in 1923, Duchamp was, in essence, no longer a practicing artist. Instead, his main interest was chess, which he studied for the rest of his life to the exclusion of most other activities.\n\nDuchamp is seen, briefly, playing chess with Man Ray in the short film \"Entr'acte\" (1924) by René Clair. He designed the 1925 Poster for the Third French Chess Championship, and as a competitor in the event, finished at fifty percent (3–3, with two draws), earning the title of chess master. During this period his fascination with chess so distressed his first wife that she glued his pieces to the board. Duchamp continued to play in the French Championships and also in the Chess Olympiads from 1928–1933, favoring hypermodern openings such as the Nimzo-Indian.\n\nSometime in the early 1930s, Duchamp reached the height of his ability, but realized that he had little chance of winning recognition in top-level chess. In the following years, his participation in chess tournaments declined, but he discovered correspondence chess and became a chess journalist, writing weekly newspaper columns. While his contemporaries were achieving spectacular success in the art world by selling their works to high-society collectors, Duchamp observed, \"I am still a victim of chess. It has all the beauty of art—and much more. It cannot be commercialized. Chess is much purer than art in its social position.\" On another occasion, Duchamp elaborated, \"The chess pieces are the block alphabet which shapes thoughts; and these thoughts, although making a visual design on the chess-board, express their beauty abstractly, like a poem. ... I have come to the personal conclusion that while all artists are not chess players, all chess players are artists.\"\n\nIn 1932, Duchamp teamed with chess theorist Vitaly Halberstadt to publish \"L'opposition et cases conjuguées sont réconciliées\" (Opposition and Sister Squares are Reconciled), known as corresponding squares. This treatise describes the Lasker-Reichhelm position, an extremely rare type of position that can arise in the endgame. Using enneagram-like charts that fold upon themselves, the authors demonstrated that in this position, the most Black can hope for is a draw.\n\nThe theme of the \"endgame\" is important to an understanding of Duchamp's complex attitude toward his artistic career. Irish playwright Samuel Beckett was an associate of Duchamp, and used the theme as the narrative device for the 1957 play of the same name, \"Endgame\". In 1968, Duchamp played an artistically important chess match with avant-garde composer John Cage, at a concert entitled \"Reunion\". Music was produced by a series of photoelectric cells underneath the chessboard, triggered sporadically by normal game play.\n\nOn choosing a career in chess, Duchamp said, \"If Bobby Fischer came to me for advice, I certainly would not discourage him—as if anyone could—but I would try to make it positively clear that he will never have any money from chess, live a monk-like existence and know more rejection than any artist ever has, struggling to be known and accepted.\"\n\nDuchamp left a legacy to chess in the form of an enigmatic endgame problem he composed in 1943. The problem was included in the announcement for Julian Levi's gallery exhibition \"Through the Big End of the Opera Glass\", printed on translucent paper with the faint inscription: \"White to play and win\". Grandmasters and endgame specialists have since grappled with the problem, with most concluding that there is no solution.\n\nAlthough Duchamp was no longer considered to be an active artist, he continued to consult with artists, art dealers and collectors. From 1925 he often traveled between France and the United States, and made New York's Greenwich Village his home in 1942. He also occasionally worked on artistic projects such as the short film \"Anemic Cinema\" (1926), \"Box in a Valise\" (1935–41), \"Self Portrait in Profile\" (1958) and the larger work \"Étant Donnés\" (1946–66). In 1943, he participated with Maya Deren in her unfinished film \"The Witch's Cradle\", filmed in Peggy Guggenheim's Art of This Century gallery.\n\nFrom the mid-1930s onward, he collaborated with the Surrealists; however, he did not join the movement, despite the coaxing of André Breton. From then until 1944, together with Max Ernst, Eugenio Granell, and Breton, Duchamp edited the Surrealist periodical \"VVV\", and served as an advisory editor for the magazine \"View\", which featured him in its March 1945 edition, thus introducing him to a broader American audience.\n\nDuchamp's influence on the art world remained behind the scenes until the late 1950s, when he was \"discovered\" by young artists such as Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns, who were eager to escape the dominance of Abstract Expressionism. He was a co-founder of the international literary group Oulipo in 1960. Interest in Duchamp was reignited in the 1960s, and he gained international public recognition. In 1963, the Pasadena Art Museum mounted his first retrospective exhibition, and there he appeared in an iconic photograph playing chess opposite nude model Eve Babitz. The photograph was later described by the Smithsonian Archives of American Art as being \"among the key documentary images of American modern art\".\n\nIn 1966 the Tate Gallery hosted a large exhibit of his work. Other major institutions, including the Philadelphia Art Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, followed with large showings of Duchamp's work. He was invited to lecture on art and to participate in formal discussions, as well as sitting for interviews with major publications. As the last surviving member of the Duchamp family of artists, in 1967 Duchamp helped to organize an exhibition in Rouen, France, called \"Les Duchamp: Jacques Villon, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Marcel Duchamp, Suzanne Duchamp\". Parts of this family exhibition were later shown again at the Musée National d'Art Moderne in Paris.\n\nDuchamp participated in the design of the 1938 International Surrealist Exhibition, which was held at the \"Galerie des Beaux-arts\", Paris. The show featured more than 60 artists from different countries, including approximately 300 paintings, objects, collages, photographs, and installations. The surrealists wanted to create an exhibition which in itself would be a creative act, and André Breton named Duchamp, Wolfgang Paalen, Man Ray, Salvador Dali, and Max Ernst to help him. At the exhibition's entrance Breton placed Salvador Dalí's \"Rainy Taxi\", a work consisting of a taxicab rigged to produce a drizzle of water down the inside of its windows, with a shark-headed creature in the driver's seat, and a blond mannequin covered with live snails in the back. In this way Duchamp confronted guests entering the exhibition, who were in full evening dress.\n\n\"Surrealist Street\" filled one side of the lobby with mannequins dressed by various surrealists. The main hall was a simulation of a dark subterranean cave with 1,200 empty coal bags suspended from the ceiling. The floor was covered by Paalen with dead leaves and mud from the Montparnasse Cemetery. In the middle of the grand hall underneath Duchamp's coal sacks, Paalen installed an artificial water-filled pond with real water lilies and reeds, which he called \"Avant La Mare\". A single light bulb provided the only illumination, so patrons were given flashlights with which to view the art (an idea of Man Ray), while the aroma of roasting coffee filled the air. Around midnight, the visitors witnessed the dancing shimmer of a scantily dressed girl who suddenly arose from the reeds, jumped on a bed, shrieked hysterically, then disappeared just as quickly. Much to the surrealists' satisfaction, the exhibition scandalized many of the guests.\n\nIn 1942, for the \"First Papers of Surrealism\" show in New York, surrealists called on Duchamp to design the exhibition. He wove a three-dimensional web of string throughout the rooms of the space, in some cases making it almost impossible to see the works. Duchamp made a secret arrangement with an associate's son to bring young friends to the opening of the show. When the formally-dressed patrons arrived, they found a dozen children in athletic clothes kicking and passing balls, and skipping rope. When questioned, the children were told to say \"Mr. Duchamp told us we could play here\". Duchamp's design of the catalog for the show included \"found\", rather than posed, photographs of the artists.\n\nThroughout his adult life, Duchamp was a passionate smoker of Habana cigars.\n\nDuchamp became a United States citizen in 1955.\n\nIn June 1927, Duchamp married ; however, they divorced six months later. It was rumored that Duchamp had chosen a marriage of convenience, because Sarazin-Lavassor was the daughter of a wealthy automobile manufacturer. Early in January 1928, Duchamp said that he could no longer bear the responsibility and confinement of marriage, and they were soon divorced.\n\nBetween 1946 and 1951 Maria Martins was his mistress.\n\nIn 1954, he and Alexina \"Teeny\" Sattler married. They remained together until his death.\n\nDuchamp's final major art work surprised the art world, which believed he had given up art for chess 25 years earlier. Entitled, \"Étant donnés: 1° la chute d'eau / 2° le gaz d'éclairage\" (\"Given: 1. The Waterfall, 2. The Illuminating Gas\"), it is a tableau, visible only through a peep hole in a wooden door. A nude woman may be seen lying on her back with her face hidden, legs spread, and one hand holding a gas lamp in the air against a landscape backdrop. Duchamp had worked secretly on the piece from 1946 to 1966 in his Greenwich Village studio while even his closest friends thought he had abandoned art. The torso of the nude figure is based on Duchamp's lover, the Brazilian sculptor Maria Martins, with whom he had an affair from 1946 to 1951.\n\nDuchamp died suddenly and peacefully in the early morning of 2 October 1968 at his home in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France. After an evening dining at home with his friends Man Ray and , Duchamp retired at 1:05 A.M., collapsed in his studio, and died of heart failure.\n\nDuchamp was an atheist. He is buried in the Rouen Cemetery, in Rouen, France, with the epitaph, \"D'ailleurs, c'est toujours les autres qui meurent\" (\"Besides, it's always the others who die\"). Even in his death, Duchamp retained a sense of humor (a means for him of reaffirming his freedom, while undermining absolutes and certainties).\n\nMany critics consider Duchamp to be one of the most important artists of the 20th century, and his output influenced the development of post–World War I Western art. He advised modern art collectors, such as Peggy Guggenheim and other prominent figures, thereby helping to shape the tastes of Western art during this period. He challenged conventional thought about artistic processes and rejected the emerging art market, through subversive anti-art. He famously dubbed a urinal art and named it \"Fountain\". Duchamp produced relatively few artworks and remained mostly aloof of the avant-garde circles of his time. He went on to pretend to abandon art and devote the rest of his life to chess, while secretly continuing to make art. In 1958 Duchamp said of creativity,\n\nThe creative act is not performed by the artist alone; the spectator brings the work in contact with the external world by deciphering and interpreting its inner qualifications and thus adds his contribution to the creative act.\n\nDuchamp in his later life explicitly expressed negativity toward art. In a BBC interview with Duchamp conducted by Joan Bakewell in 1968 he compared art with religion, saying that he wished to do away with art the same way many have done away with religion. Duchamp goes on to explain to the interviewer that \"the word art etymologically means to do,\" that art means activity of any kind, and that it is our society that creates \"purely artificial\" distinctions of being an artist.\n\nA quotation erroneously attributed to Duchamp suggests a negative attitude toward later trends in 20th century art:\n\nHowever, this was written in 1961 by fellow Dadaist Hans Richter, in the second person, i.e. \"You threw the bottle-rack...\". Although a marginal note in the letter suggests that Duchamp generally approved of the statement, Richter did not make the distinction clear until many years later.\n\nDuchamp's attitude was more favorable, however, as evidenced by another statement made in 1964:\n\nThe Prix Marcel Duchamp (Marcel Duchamp Prize), established in 2000, is an annual award given to a young artist by the Centre Georges Pompidou. In 2004, as a testimony to the legacy of Duchamp's work to the art world, a panel of prominent artists and art historians voted \"Fountain\" \"the most influential artwork of the 20th century\".\n17 November 1999, a version of \"Fountain\" (owned by Arturo Schwarz) was sold at Sotheby's, New York, for $1,762,500 to Dimitris Daskalopoulos, who declared that \"Fountain\" represented the origin of contemporary art. The price set a world record, at the time, for a work by Marcel Duchamp at public auction. The record has since been surpassed by a work sold at Christie's Paris, titled \"Belle Haleine, Eau de Voilette\" (1921). The readymade of a perfume bottle in its box sold for a record $11.5 million (€8.9 million).\n\n\n\n\nDuchamp works\n\n\nEssays by Duchamp\n\nGeneral resources\n\nAudio and video\n"}
{"id": "315232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315232", "title": "Moderation", "text": "Moderation\n\nModeration is the process of eliminating or lessening extremes. It is used to ensure normality throughout the medium on which it is being conducted. Common uses of moderation include:\n\nModeration is also a principle of life. In ancient Greece, the temple of Apollo at Delphi bore the inscription \"Meden Agan\" () - 'Nothing in excess'. Doing something \"in moderation\" means not doing it excessively. For instance, someone who moderates their food consumption tries to eat all food groups, but limits their intake of those that may cause deleterious effects to harmless levels.\n\nAccording to the historian and sociologist of science Steven Shapin:\n\nSimilarly, in Christianity, \"moderationism\" is the position that drinking alcoholic beverages temperately is permissible, though drunkenness is forbidden (see Christianity and alcohol).\n\nIn the Book of Wisdom moderation is listed among the greatest virtues. \n\nModeration is considered a key part of one's personal development in Chinese Taoist philosophy and religion and is one of the three jewels of Taoist thought. There is nothing that cannot be moderated including one's actions, one's desires and even one's thoughts. It is believed that by doing so one achieves a more natural state, faces less resistance in life and recognises one's limits. Taken to the extreme, moderation is complex and can be difficult to not only accept, but also understand and implement. It can also be recursive in that one should moderate how much one moderates (i.e. to not be too worried about moderating everything or not to try too hard in finding a middle ground)\n\nModeration as a principle of Taoist philosophy turns up in all three of its main texts. \n\nModeration is a characteristic of the Swedish national psyche, more specifically described by the Swedish synonym Lagom. \n\nModerate Muslims adhere to the concept of contextual relativism as a way to grasp meaning from the Quran.\n\nIn an internet forum a moderator is one who enforces the rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "241265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241265", "title": "Moral skepticism", "text": "Moral skepticism\n\nMoral skepticism (or moral scepticism) is a class of metaethical theories all members of which entail that no one has any moral knowledge. Many moral skeptics also make the stronger, modal claim that moral knowledge is impossible. Moral skepticism is particularly opposed to moral realism: the view that there are knowable and objective moral truths.\n\nSome defenders of moral skepticism include Pyrrho, Aenesidemus, Sextus Empiricus, David Hume, J. L. Mackie (1977), Max Stirner, Friedrich Nietzsche, Richard Joyce (2001), Michael Ruse, Joshua Greene, Richard Garner, Walter Sinnott-Armstrong (2006b), and the psychologist James Flynn. Strictly speaking, Gilbert Harman (1975) argues in favor of a kind of moral relativism, not moral skepticism. However, he has influenced some contemporary moral skeptics.\n\nMoral skepticism divides into three subclasses: moral error theory (or moral nihilism), epistemological moral skepticism, and noncognitivism. All three of these theories share the same conclusions, which are:\n\nHowever, each method arrives at (a) and (b) by different routes.\n\nMoral error theory holds that we do not know that any moral claim is true because\n\nEpistemological moral skepticism is a subclass of theory, the members of which include Pyrrhonian moral skepticism and dogmatic moral skepticism. All members of epistemological moral skepticism share two things in common: first they acknowledge that we are unjustified in believing any moral claim, and second, they are agnostic on whether (i) is true (i.e. on whether all moral claims are false).\n\nFinally, Noncognitivism holds that we can never know that any moral claim is true because moral claims are \"incapable\" of being true or false (they are not truth-apt). Instead, moral claims are imperatives (e.g. \"Don't steal babies!\"), expressions of emotion (e.g. \"stealing babies: Boo!\"), or expressions of \"pro-attitudes\" (\"I do not believe that babies should be stolen.\")\n\nMoral error theory is a position characterized by its commitment to two propositions: (i) all moral claims are false and (ii) we have reason to believe that all moral claims are false. The most famous moral error theorist is J. L. Mackie, who defended the metaethical view in \"Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong\" (1977). Mackie has been interpreted as giving two arguments for moral error theory.\n\nThe first argument people attribute to Mackie, often called the argument from queerness, holds that moral claims imply motivation internalism (the doctrine that \"It is necessary and \"a priori\" that any agent who judges that one of his available actions is morally obligatory will have some (defeasible) motivation to perform that action\" ). Because motivation internalism is false, however, so too are all moral claims.\n\nThe other argument often attributed to Mackie, often called the argument from disagreement, maintains that any moral claim (e.g. \"Killing babies is wrong\") entails a correspondent \"reasons claim\" (\"one has reason not to kill babies\"). Put another way, if \"killing babies is wrong\" is true then everybody has a reason to not kill babies. This includes the psychopath who takes great pleasure from killing babies, and is utterly miserable when he does not have their blood on his hands. But, surely, (if we assume that he will suffer no reprisals) this psychopath has every reason to kill babies, and no reason not to do so. All moral claims are thus false.\n\nAll versions of epistemological moral skepticism hold that we are unjustified in believing any moral proposition. However, in contradistinction to moral error theory, epistemological moral skeptical arguments for this conclusion do not include the premise that \"all moral claims are false.\" For example, Michael Ruse gives what Richard Joyce calls an \"evolutionary argument\" for the conclusion that we are unjustified in believing any moral proposition. He argues that we have evolved to believe moral propositions because our believing the same enhances our genetic fitness (makes it more likely that we will reproduce successfully). However, our believing these propositions would enhance our fitness even if they were all false (they would make us more cooperative, etc.). Thus, our moral beliefs are unresponsive to evidence; they are analogous to the beliefs of a paranoiac. As a paranoiac is plainly unjustified in believing his conspiracy theories, so too are we unjustified in believing moral propositions. We therefore have reason to jettison our moral beliefs.\n\nThere are two different opinions that may follow from moral skepticism.\n\nAmoralism is the idea that we should abandon morality.\n\nJohn E. Hare claims there are some reasons to obey moral rules. He claims that amoralists are logically consistent, but have plenty of disadvantages in their lives.\n\nCriticisms of moral skepticism come primarily from moral realists. The moral realist argues that there is in fact good reason to believe that there are objective moral truths and that we are justified in holding many moral beliefs. One moral realist response to moral error theory holds that it \"proves too much\"—if moral claims are false because they entail that we have reasons to do certain things regardless of our preferences, then so too are \"hypothetical imperatives\" (e.g. \"if you want to get your hair-cut you ought to go to the barber\"). This is because all hypothetical imperatives imply that \"we have reason to do that which will enable us to accomplish our ends\" and so, like moral claims, they imply that we have reason to do something \"regardless\" of our preferences.\nIf moral claims are false because they have this implication, then so too are hypothetical imperatives. But hypothetical imperatives are true. Thus the argument from the non-instantiation of (what Mackie terms) \"objective prescriptivity\" for moral error theory fails. Russ Shafer-Landau and Daniel Callcut have each outlined anti-skeptical strategies. Callcut argues that moral skepticism should be scrutinized in introductory ethics classes in order to get across the point that \"if all views about morality, including the skeptical ones, face difficulties, then adopting a skeptical position is not an escape from difficulty.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31868429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31868429", "title": "Narcissistic elation", "text": "Narcissistic elation\n\nNarcissistic elation or narcissistic coenaesthetic expansion were terms used by Hungarian psychoanalyst Béla Grunberger to highlight 'the narcissistic situation of the primal self in narcissistic union with the mother'.\n\nNarcissistic elation has also been used more widely to describe a variety of conditions, including states of being in love, of triumph, and of obtaining self-understanding.\n\nThe term was coined to describe the state of prenatal beatitude, which according to him characterizes the life of the fetus: a state of megalomaniacal happiness amounting to a perfect homeostasis, devoid of needs or desires. The ideal here is bliss experienced in absolute withdrawal from the object and from the outside world. Narcissistic elation is at once the memory of this unique and privileged state of elation; a sense of well-being of completeness and omnipotence linked to that memory, and pride in having experienced this state, pride in its (illusory) oneness. Narcissistic elation is characteristic of an object relationship that is played out, in its negative version, as a state of splendid isolation, and, in its positive version, as a desperate quest for fusion with the other, for a mirror-image relationship. It involves a return to paradise lost and all that is attached to this idea: fusion, self-love, megalomania, omnipotence, immortality, and invulnerability. After birth, the infant continues to enjoy the protonarcissistic existence as before, and this is reinforced by the fact that people around it, in particular the mother, meet all its needs and wishes. This state of illusion is soon compromised, however, as inevitable frustrations begin to occur. The traces of this state of elation and megalomania, based on the notions of harmony and omnipotence, nevertheless provide a source of psychic energy that will remain active throughout life. The child, and later the adult, will seek to preserve and return to this narcissistic mode of being, notably through music, passionate love, or mystical ecstasy. Perhaps, after all, what fascinated Narcissus was the sight—beyond his own reflection—of the amniotic water, and the deep, regressive promise of happiness that it held out. Following an initial period of elation known as the \"honeymoon\", psychoanalytic treatment must succeed in bringing together the narcissistic elements of the self by integrating them into interpretations of reality: ego-libido and object-libido must arrive at a satisfactory compromise.\n\nFreud had used the term oceanic feeling to describe 'an early phase of ego-feeling...the oceanic feeling, which might seek something like the restoration of limitless narcissism'.\n\nGrunberger and André Green have subsequently 'traced narcissism to pre-natal states of elation, making it biological and drive-driven'. Building on 'the state of prenatal beatitude, which according to him characterizes the life of the fetus', Grunberger therefore considered that 'narcissistic elation is at once the memory of this unique and privileged state of elation; a sense of well-being of completeness and omnipotence linked to that memory, and pride in having experienced this state, pride in its (illusory) oneness'.\n\nFreud also explored how 'in cases of mania the ego and ego ideal have fused together...in a mood of triumph and self-satisfaction'. Grunberger considered such states as reaching back to the primal narcissistic elation, and as drawing on 'traces of this state of elation and megalomania, based on the notions of harmony and omnipotence'.\n\nBuilding on his work, Janine Chasseguet-Smirgel claims that 'it is indeed therefore narcissistic elation, the meeting of ego and ideal, that dissolves the superego'. One may consider in general that 'the feeling of triumph...brings with it \"oceanic\" feelings, because it represents reunion with the omnipotent one'.\n\nWith respect to a slightly later phase of early development, Margaret Mahler 'describes the practising junior toddler's omnipotent exhilaration (excitement) and narcissistic elation (joy)' at learning to walk—the 'tremendously exhilarating, truly dramatic effect that upright locomotion had'—noting however that 'it is precisely at the point where the child is at the peak of his delusion of omnipotence...that his narcissism is particularly vulnerable to deflation'.\n\nIn the wake of the toddler's new achievement, 'from dawn to dusk he marches around in an ecstatic, drunken dance...quite in love with himself for being so clever'.\n\nNarcissistic elation may subsequently be reactivated within a therapeutic context. Edmund Bergler wrote of 'the narcissistic elation that comes from self-understanding'; while Herbert Rosenfeld described what he called the re-emergence of '\"narcissistic omnipotent object relations\"...in the clinical situation'.\n\nSomewhat similarly, Lacan spoke of 'the megalomaniac ebriety which...[i]s the index of the termination of the analysis in present practice'.\n\nIn later life, the adult may seek to 'return to this narcissistic mode of being, notably through music, passionate love, or mystical ecstasy'. For some, the whole 'purpose of love...[is] equal exchange in an atmosphere of shared narcissistic elation'. \n\nOthers may consider as ultimately futile this 'search for a pure narcissistic exaltation, the elation procured by the imaginary contemplation of the object'; and yet still recognise the power of 'the enchantment of love...as the exaltation of the other...this breathlessness which, with the other, has created the most false of demands, that of narcissistic satisfaction'.\n\nIn \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\", a 'cold intellectual arrogance and narcissistic elation' have been identified in 'the highly ambitious speculations attributed to Stephen—the central protagonist—with respect to aesthetics. \n\n"}
{"id": "9056009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9056009", "title": "National trauma", "text": "National trauma\n\nNational trauma is a concept in psychology and social psychology. A national trauma is one in which the effects of a trauma apply generally to the members of a collective group such as a country or other well-defined group of people. Trauma is an injury that has the potential to severely negatively affect an individual, whether physically or psychologically. Psychological trauma is a shattering of the fundamental assumptions that a person has about themselves and the world. An adverse experience that is unexpected, painful, extraordinary, and shocking results in interruptions in ongoing processes or relationships and may also create maladaptive responses. Such experiences can affect not only an individual but can also be collectively experienced by an entire group of people. Tragic experiences can collectively wound or threaten the national identity, that sense of belonging shared by a nation as a whole represented by tradition culture, language, and politics.\n\nIn individual psychological trauma, fundamental assumptions about how the individual relates to the world, such as that the world is benevolent and meaningful and that the individual has worth in the world, are overturned by overwhelming life experiences. Similarly, national trauma overturns fundamental assumptions of social identity – something terrible has happened and social life has lost its predictability. The causes of such shatterings of assumptions are diverse and defy neat categorization. For example, wars are not always national traumas; while the Vietnam War is experienced by Americans as a national trauma Winston Churchill famously titled the closing volume of his history of the Second World War \"Triumph and Tragedy\". Similar types of natural disasters can also provoke different responses. The 2016 Fort McMurray Wildfire in Alberta was a collective trauma for not only that local community but also the large Canadian Province of Alberta despite causing no direct deaths yet the much larger Peshtigo Fire responsible for thousands of deaths is largely forgotten.\n\nResponses to national trauma also vary. A nation that experiences clear defeat in war which had mobilized the nation to a high degree will almost inevitably also experience national trauma but the way in which that defeat is felt can change the response. The former peoples of the Confederate South in the American Civil War and the German Empire in World War I both created post-war mythologies (the Lost Cause in the former and the Stab-in-the-back Myth in the latter) of \"glorious\" defeat in unfair fights. The post-war experience of Germany after World War Two, however, is much more complex and provoked reactions from a sense of German national guilt to collective ignorance. A common national response to these traumas is repeated calls for national unity and moral purification, as in the post-9/11 United States or post-war Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "4094117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4094117", "title": "Negative stain", "text": "Negative stain\n\nNegative staining is an established method, often used in diagnostic microscopy, for contrasting a thin specimen with an optically opaque fluid. In this technique, the background is stained, leaving the actual specimen untouched, and thus visible. This contrasts with 'positive staining', in which the actual specimen is stained.\n\nFor bright field microscopy, negative staining is typically performed using a black ink fluid such as nigrosin and India ink. The specimen, such as a wet bacterial culture spread on a glass slide, is mixed with the negative stain and allowed to dry. When viewed with the microscope the bacterial cells, and perhaps their spores, appear light against the dark surrounding background. An alternative method has been developed using an ordinary waterproof marking pen to deliver the negative stain.\n\nIn the case of transmission electron microscopy, opaqueness to electrons is related to the atomic number, i.e., the number of protons. Some suitable negative stains include ammonium molybdate, uranyl acetate, uranyl formate, phosphotungstic acid, osmium tetroxide, osmium ferricyanide and auroglucothionate. These have been chosen because they scatter electrons strongly and also adsorb to biological matter well. The structures which can be negatively stained are much smaller than those studied with the light microscope. Here, the method is used to view viruses, bacteria, bacterial flagella, biological membrane structures and proteins or protein aggregates, which all have a low electron-scattering power. Some stains, such as osmium tetroxide and osmium ferricyanide, are very chemically active. As strong oxidants, they cross-link lipids mainly by reacting with unsaturated carbon-carbon bonds, and thereby both fix biological membranes in place in tissue samples and simultaneously stain them.\n\nThe choice of negative stain in electron microscopy can be very important. An early study of plant viruses using negatively stained leaf dips from a diseased plant showed only spherical viruses with one stain and only rod-shaped viruses with another. The verified conclusion was that this plant suffered from a mixed infection by two separate viruses. \nNegative staining at both light microscope and electron microscope level should never be performed with infectious organisms unless stringent safety precautions are followed. Negative staining is usually a very mild preparation method and thus does not reduce the possibility of operator infection.\n\nNegative staining transmission electron microscopy has also been successfully employed for study and identification of aqueous lipid aggregates like lamellar liposomes (le), inverted spherical micelles (M) and inverted hexagonal HII cylindrical (H) phases (see figure above).\n\n"}
{"id": "14558843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14558843", "title": "Nirvana (Buddhism)", "text": "Nirvana (Buddhism)\n\nNirvana (Sanskrit: '; Pali: ', \"\") is the earliest and most common term used to describe the goal of the Buddhist path. The literal meaning is \"blowing out\" or \"quenching.\" It is the ultimate spiritual goal in Buddhism and marks the soteriological release from rebirths in \"saṃsāra\". Nirvana is part of the Third Truth on \"cessation of \"dukkha\"\" in the Four Noble Truths, and the \"summum bonum\" destination of the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nWithin the Buddhist tradition, this term has commonly been interpreted as the extinction of the \"three fires\", or \"three poisons\", passion (\"raga\"), aversion (\"dvesha\") and ignorance (\"moha\" or \"avidyā\"). When these \"fires\" are extinguished, release from the cycle of rebirth (\"saṃsāra\") is attained.\n\nNirvana has also been deemed in Buddhism to be identical with \"anatta\" (non-self) and \"sunyata\" (emptiness) states. In time, with the development of Buddhist doctrine, other interpretations were given, such as the absence of the weaving (\"vana\") of activity of the mind, the elimination of desire, and escape from the woods, cq. the five \"skandhas\" or aggregates.\n\nBuddhist scholastic tradition identifies two types of nirvana: \"sopadhishesa-nirvana\" (nirvana with a remainder), and \"parinirvana\" or \"anupadhishesa-nirvana\" (nirvana without remainder, or final nirvana). The founder of Buddhism, the Buddha, is believed to have reached both these states. \n\n\"Nirvana\", or the liberation from cycles of rebirth, is the highest aim of the Theravada tradition. In the Mahayana tradition, the highest goal is \"Buddhahood\", in which there is no abiding in Nirvana, but a Buddha continues to take rebirths in the world to help liberate beings from \"saṃsāra\" by teaching the Buddhist path.\n\nThe term \"nirvana\" describes a state of freedom from suffering and rebirth, but different Buddhist traditions have interpreted the concept in different ways. The origin is probably pre-Buddhist, and its etymology may not be conclusive for its meaning. The term was a more or less central concept among the Jains, the Ajivikas, the Buddhists, and certain Hindu traditions, and it may have been imported into Buddhism with much of its semantic range from other sramanic movements.\n\nNirvana has a wide range of meanings, although the literal meaning is \"blowing out\" or \"quenching\". It refers both to the act and the effect of blowing (at something) to put it out, but also the process and outcome of burning out, becoming extinguished.\n\nThe term \"nirvana\" in the soteriological sense of \"blown out, extinguished\" state of liberation does not appear in the Vedas nor in the pre-Buddhist Upanishads. According to Collins, \"the Buddhists seem to have been the first to call it \"nirvana\".\" However, the ideas of spiritual liberation using different terminology, is found in ancient texts of non-Buddhist Indian traditions, such as in verse 4.4.6 of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad of Hinduism.\n\nThe prevalent interpretation of nirvana as \"extinction\" is based on the etymology of \"nir√vā\" to \"blow out\". \"Nir\" is a negative, while \"va\" is commonly taken to refer to \"to blow\".\n\nThe term \"nirvana\" is part of an extensive metaphorical structure that was probably established at a very early age in Buddhism. According to Gombrich, the number of three fires alludes to the three fires which a Brahmin had to keep alight, and thereby symbolise life in the world, as a family-man. The meaning of this metaphor was lost in later Buddhism, and other explanations of the word \"nirvana\" were sought. Not only passion, hatred and delusion were to be extinguished, but also all cankers (\"asava\") or defilements (\"khlesa\"). Later exegetical works developed a whole new set of folk etymological definitions of the word nirvana, using the root \"vana\" to refer to \"to blow\", but re-parsing the word to roots that mean \"weaving, sewing\", \"desire\" and \"forest or woods\":\n\nThe \"blowing out\" does not mean total annihilation, but the extinguishing of a flame, which returns, and exists in another way. The term \"nirvana\" can also be used as a verb: \"he or she nirvāṇa-s,\" or \"he or she parinirvānṇa-s\" (\"parinibbāyati\").\n\nThe term \"nirvana\", \"to blow out\", has also been interpreted as the extinction of the \"three fires\", or \"three poisons\", namely of passion or sensuality (\"raga\"), aversion or hate (\"dvesha\") and of delusion or ignorance (\"moha\" or \"avidyā\"). Another explanation of nirvana is the absence of the weaving (\"vana\") of activity of the mind.\n\nAuthor Paul Swanson states that some contemporary Buddhism scholars have questioned the above etymologies and whether these are consistent with the core doctrines of Buddhism, particularly about \"anatman\" (non-self) and \"pratityasamutpada\" (causality). Matsumoto Shirō, for example, states that the original etymological root of \"nirvana\" should not be considered as nir√vā which means \"extinction\", but should be considered to be nir√vŗ, to \"uncover\". The problem with considering it as extinction or liberation, is that it presupposes a \"self\" to be extinguished or liberated. According to Matsumoto, the original meaning of \"nirvana\" was therefore not \"to extinguish\" but \"to uncover\" the \"atman\" from that which is \"anatman\" (not atman). Other Buddhist scholars such as Takasaki Jikidō disagree, states Swanson, and call the Matsumoto proposal as \"too far and leaving nothing that can be called Buddhist\".\n\n\"Nirvana\" is used synonymously with \"moksha\" (Sanskrit), also \"vimoksha\", or \"vimutti\" (Pali), \"release, deliverance from suffering\". In the Pali-canon two kinds of vimutti are discerned: \n\nCeto-vimutti becomes permanent, only with the attainment of pañña-vimutti. According to Gombrich and other scholars, these may be a later development within the canon, reflecting a growing emphasis in earliest Buddhism on \"prajña\", instead of the liberating practice of \"dhyana\"; it may also reflect a successful assimilation of non-Buddhist meditation practices in ancient India into the Buddhist canon. According to Anālayo, the term \"uttari\"-\"vimutti\" (highest liberation) is also widely used in the early buddhist texts to refer to liberation from the cycle of rebirth.\n\nMost modern scholars such as Rupert Gethin, Richard Gombrich, Donald Lopez and Paul Williams hold that nirvāṇa (\"nibbana\" in Pali, also called \"nibbanadhatu\", the property of nibbana), means the 'blowing out' or 'extinguishing' of greed, aversion, and delusion, and that this signifies the permanent cessation of samsara and rebirth. \n\nAccording to Steven Collins, a synonym widely used for nirvana in early texts is \"deathless\" or \"deathfree\" (Pali: \"amata,\" sanskrit\": amrta\") and refers to a condition \"where there is no death, because there is also no birth, no coming into existence, nothing made by conditioning, and therefore no time.\" He also adds that \"the most common thing said about nirvana in Buddhist texts is that it is the ending of suffering (\"dukkha\").\" Gethin notes, \"this is not a 'thing' but an event or experience\" that frees one from rebirth in samsara. According to Collins, the term is also widely used as a verb, one therefore \"nirvanizes.\" Gombrich argues that the metaphor used in the texts of flames going out, refers to fires which were kept by priests of Brahmanism, and symbolize life in the world. Nirvana is also called \"unconditioned\" (\"asankhata\"), meaning it is unlike all other conditioned phenomena. \n\nThe cycle of rebirth and suffering continues until a being attains nirvana. One requirement for ending this cycle is to extinguish the fires of attachment (\"raga\"), aversion (\"dvesha\") and ignorance (\"moha\" or \"avidya)\". As Bhikkhu Bodhi states \"For as long as one is entangled by craving, one remains bound in saṃsāra, the cycle of birth and death; but when all craving has been extirpated, one attains Nibbāna, deliverance from the cycle of birth and death.\"\n\nAccording to Donald Swearer, the journey to nirvana is not a journey to a \"separate reality\" (contra Vedic religion or Jainism), but a move towards calm, equanimity, nonattachment and nonself. In this sense, the soteriological view of early Buddhism is seen as a reaction to earlier Indic metaphysical views. Thomas Kasulis notes that in the early texts, nirvana is often described in negative terms, including “cessation” (\"nirodha\"), “the absence of craving” (\"trsnaksaya\"), “detachment,” “the absence of delusion,” and “the unconditioned” (\"asamskrta\"). He also notes that there is little discussion in the early buddhist texts about the metaphysical nature of nirvana, since they seem to hold that metaphysical speculation is an obstacle to the goal. Kasulis mentions the \"Malunkyaputta sutta\" which denies any view about the existence of the Buddha after his final bodily death, all positions (the Buddha exists after death, does not exist, both or neither) are rejected. Likewise, another sutta (AN II 161) has Sāriputta saying that asking the question \"is there anything else?\" after the physical death of someone who has attained nirvana is conceptualizing or proliferating (\"papañca\") about that which is without proliferation (\"appapañcaṃ\") and thus a kind of distorted thinking bound up with the self.\n\nIn the early texts, the practice of the noble path and the four dhyanas was said to lead to the extinction of the three fires, and then proceed to the cessation of all discursive thoughts and apperceptions, then ceasing all feelings (happiness and sadness). According to Collins, nirvana is associated with a meditative attainment called the 'Cessation of Perception/Ideation and Feeling' (\"sannavedayitanirodha\"), also known as the 'Attainment of Cessation' (\"nirodhasamapatti\"). In later Buddhism, dhyana practice was deemed sufficient only for the extinguishing of passion and hatred, while delusion was extinguished by insight.\n\nPeter Harvey has defended the idea that nirvana in the Pali suttas refers to a kind of transformed and transcendent consciousness or discernment (\"viññana\") that has \"stopped\" (\"nirodhena\"). According to Harvey this nirvanic consciousness is said to be \"objectless\", \"infinite\" (\"anantam\"), \"unsupported\" (\"appatiṭṭhita\") and \"non-manifestive\" (\"anidassana\") as well as \"beyond time and spatial location\". Rune Johansson's \"The Psychology of Nirvana\" also argued that nirvana could be seen as a transformed state of mind (\"citta\").\nStanislaw Schayer, a Polish scholar, argued in the 1930s that the Nikayas preserve elements of an archaic form of Buddhism which is close to Brahmanical beliefs, and survived in the Mahayana tradition. Contrary to popular opinion, the Theravada and Mahayana traditions may be \"divergent, but equally reliable records of a pre-canonical Buddhism which is now lost forever.\" The Mahayana tradition may have preserved a very old, \"pre-Canonical\" and oral Buddhist tradition, which was largely, but not completely, left out of the Theravada-canon. Schayer's view saw nirvana as an immortal, deathless sphere, a transmundane reality or state. Edward Conze had similar ideas about nirvana, citing sources which speak of an eternal and \"invisible infinite consciousness, which shines everywhere\" as point to the view that nirvana is a kind of Absolute. A similar view was defended by M. Falk, who held that the nirvanic element, as an \"essence\" or pure consciousness, is immanent within samsara. M. Falk argues that the early Buddhist view of nirvana is that it is an \"abode\" or \"place\" of prajña, which is gained by the enlightened. This nirvanic element, as an \"essence\" or pure consciousness, is immanent within samsara.\n\nA similar view is also defended by C. Lindtner, who argues that in precanonical Buddhism Nirvana is:\n\nAccording to Christian Lindtner, the original and early Buddhist concepts of nirvana were similar to those found in competing Śramaṇa (strivers/ascetics) traditions such as Jainism and Upanishadic Vedism. It was not a psychological idea or purely related to a being's inner world, but a concept described in terms of the world surrounding the being, cosmology and consciousness. All Indian religions, over time, states Lindtner evolved these ideas, internalizing the state but in different ways because early and later Vedanta continued with the metaphysical idea of Brahman and soul, but Buddhism did not. In this view, the canonical Buddhist views on Nirvana was a reaction against early (pre-canonical) Buddhism, along with the assumptions of Jainism and the Upanishadic thought on the idea of personal liberation. As a result of this reaction, Nirvana came to be seen as a state of mind, instead of a concrete place. Elements of this precanonical Buddhism may have survived the canonisation, and its subsequent filtering out of ideas, and re-appeared in Mahayana Buddhism. According to Lindtner, the existence of multiple, and contradicting ideas, is also reflected in the works of Nagarjuna, who tried to harmonize these different ideas. According to Lindtner, this lead him to taking a \"paradoxical\" stance, for instance regarding nirvana, rejecting any positive description.\n\nReferring to this view, Alexander Wynne holds that there is no evidence in the Sutta Pitaka that the Buddha held this view, at best it only shows that \"some of the early Buddhists were influenced by their Brahminic peers\". Wynne concludes that the Buddha rejected the views of the Vedas and that his teachings present a radical departure from these brahminical beliefs.\n\nThere are two stages in \"nirvana\", one in life, and one final nirvana upon death; the former is imprecise and general, the latter is precise and specific. The nirvana-in-life marks the life of a monk who has attained complete release from desire and suffering but still has a body, name and life. The nirvana-after-death, also called nirvana-without-substrate, is the complete cessation of everything, including consciousness and rebirth. This main distinction is between the extinguishing of the fires during life, and the final \"blowing out\" at the moment of death:\n\n\nThe classic Pali sutta definitions for these states are as follows:And what, monks, is the Nibbana element with residue remaining? Here, a monk is an arahant, one whose taints are destroyed, who has lived the holy life, done what had to be done, laid down the burden, reached his own goal, utterly destroyed the fetters of existence, one completely liberated through final knowledge. However, his five sense faculties remain unimpaired, by which he still experiences what is agreeable and disagreeable, still feels pleasure and pain. It is the destruction of lust, hatred, and delusion in him that is called the Nibbana element with residue remaining.And what, monks, is the Nibbana element without residue remaining? Here, a monk is an arahant ... one completely liberated through final knowledge. For him, here in this very life, all that is felt, not being delighted in, will become cool right here. That, monks, is called the Nibbana element without residue remaining.Gombrich explains that the five \"skandhas\" or aggregates are the bundles of firewood that fuel the three fires. The Buddhist practitioner ought to \"drop\" these bundles, so that the fires are no longer fueled and \"blow out\". When this is done, the bundles still remain as long as this life continues, but they are no longer \"on fire.\" Collins notes that the first type, nirvana in this life is also called bodhi (awakening), nirvana of the defilements or \"kilesa-(pari)nibbana,\" and arhatship while nirvana after death is also referred to as the nirvana of the Aggregates, \"khandha-(pari)nibbana.\"\n\nWhat happens with one who has reached \"nirvana\" after death is an unanswerable question. According to Walpola Rahula, the five aggregates vanish but there does not remain a mere \"nothingness.\" Rahula's view, states Gombrich, is not accurate summary of the Buddhist thought, and mirrors the Upanishadic thought.\n\nNirvana is also described in Buddhist texts as identical to \"anatta\" (\"anatman\", non-self, lack of any self). \"Anatta\" means there is no abiding self or soul in any being or a permanent essence in any thing. This interpretation asserts that all reality is of dependent origination and a worldly construction of each human mind, therefore ultimately a delusion or ignorance. In Buddhist thought, this must be overcome, states Martin Southwold, through \"the realization of anatta, which is nirvana\".\n\nNirvana in some Buddhist traditions is described as the realization of \"sunyata\" (emptiness or nothingness). Madhyamika Buddhist texts call this as the middle point of all dualities (Middle Way), where all subject-object discrimination and polarities disappear, there is no conventional reality, and the only ultimate reality of emptiness is all that remains.\n\nA commonly used metaphor for nirvana is that of a flame which goes out due to lack of fuel:Just as an oil-lamp burns because of oil and wick, but when the oil and wick are exhausted, and no others are supplied, it goes out through lack of fuel (\"anaharo nibbayati\"), so the [enlightened] monk … knows that after the break-up of his body, when further life is exhausted, all feelings which are rejoiced in here will become cool.Collins argues that the Buddhist view of awakening reverses the Vedic view and its metaphors. While in Vedic religion, the fire is seen as a metaphor for the good and for life, Buddhist thought uses the metaphor of fire for the three poisons and for suffering. This can be seen in the \"Adittapariyaya Sutta\" commonly called \"the fire sermon\" as well as in other similar early Buddhist texts. The fire sermon describes the end of the \"fires\" with a refrain which is used throughout the early texts to describe nibbana:Disenchanted, he becomes dispassionate. Through dispassion, he is fully released. With full release, there is the knowledge, 'Fully released.' He discerns that 'Birth is ended, the holy life fulfilled, the task done. There is nothing further for this world.In the \"Dhammacakkapavattanasutta,\" the third noble truth of cessation (associated with nirvana) is defined as: \"the fading away without remainder and cessation of that same craving, giving it up, relinquishing it, letting it go, not clinging to it.\"\n\nSteven Collins lists some examples of synonyms used throughout the Pali texts for nibbana:the end, (the place, state) without corruptions, the truth, the further (shore), the subtle, very hard to see, without decay, firm, not liable to dissolution, incomparable, without differentiation, peaceful, deathless, excellent, auspicious, rest, the destruction of craving, marvellous, without affliction, whose nature is to be free from affliction, nibbana [presumably here in one or more creative etymology,= e.g., non-forest], without trouble, dispassion, purity, freedom, without attachment, the island, shelter (cave), protection, refuge, final end, the subduing of pride (or ‘intoxication’), elimination of thirst, destruction of attachment, cutting off of the round (of rebirth), empty, very hard to obtain, where there is no becoming, without misfortune, where there is nothing made, sorrowfree, without danger, whose nature is to be without danger, profound, hard to see, superior, unexcelled (without superior), unequalled, incomparable, foremost, best, without strife, clean, flawless, stainless, happiness, immeasurable, (a firm) standing point, possessing nothing.\n\nIn the Theravada-tradition, \"nibbāna\" is regarded as an uncompounded or unconditioned (\"asankhata\") dhamma (phenomenon, event) which is \"transmundane\", and which is beyond our normal dualistic conceptions. In Theravada Abhidhamma texts like the \"Vibhanga,\" \"nibbana\" or the \"asankhata-dhatu\" (unconditioned element) is defined thus:‘What is the unconditioned element (\"asankhata dhatu\")? It is the cessation of passion, the cessation of hatred and the cessation of delusion.’Furthermore, for the Theravada, nirvana is uniquely the only \"asankhata\" \"dhamma\" (unconditioned phenomenon) and unlike other schools, they do not recognize different unconditioned phenomena or different types of nirvana (such as the \"apratistha\" or non-abiding nirvana of Mahayana). As noted by Thiện Châu, the Theravadins and the Pudgalavadins \"remained strictly faithful to the letter of the sutras\" and thus held that nirvana is the only unconditioned dhamma, while other schools also posited various \"asankhata dhammas\" (such as the Sarvastivadin view that space or \"akasa\" was unconditioned). \n\nThe Theravada tradition identifies four progressive stages. The first three lead to favorable rebirths in more pleasant realms of existence, while the last culminates in nirvana as an Arahat who is a fully awakened person. The first three are reborn because they still have some of the fetters, while arhat has abandoned all ten fetters and, upon death will never be reborn in any realm or world, having wholly escaped \"saṃsāra\".\n\nAt the start, a monk's mind treats nirvana as an object (\"nibbanadhatu\"). This is followed by realizing the insight of three universal \"lakshana\" (marks): impermanence (\"anicca\"), suffering (\"dukkha\") and nonself (\"anatman\"). Thereafter the monastic practice aims at eliminating the ten fetters that lead to rebirth.\n\nAccording to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, individuals up to the level of non-returning may experience \"nibbāna\" as an object of consciousness. Certain contemplations with \"nibbāna\" as an object of samādhi lead, if developed, to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation, which is reached through a progression of insight, if the meditator realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and \"nibbāna\" is realized.\n\nThe Theravada exegete Buddhaghosa says, in his \"Visuddhimagga\":It is called nibbana (extinction) because it has gone away from (nikkhanta), has escaped from (nissata), is dissociated from, craving, which has acquired in common usage the name ‘fastening (vana)’ because, by ensuring successive becoming, craving serves as a joining together, a binding together, a lacing together, of the four kinds of generation, five destinies, seven stations of consciousness and nine abodes of being.According to Buddhaghosa, \"nibbāna\" is achieved after a long process of committed application to the path of purification (Pali: \"Vissudhimagga\"). The Buddha explained that the disciplined way of life he recommended to his students (\"dhamma-vinaya\") is a gradual training extending often over a number of years. To be committed to this path already requires that a seed of wisdom is present in the individual. This wisdom becomes manifest in the experience of awakening (\"bodhi\"). Attaining \"nibbāna\", in either the current or some future birth, depends on effort, and is not pre-determined.\n\nIn the \"Visuddhimagga\", chapter I.v.6, Buddhaghosa identifies various options within the Pali canon for pursuing a path to nirvana. According to Gombrich, this proliferation of possible paths to liberation reflects later doctrinal developments, and a growing emphasis on insight as the main liberative means, instead of the practice of \"dhyana\".\n\nA related idea, which finds support in the Pali Canon and the contemporary Theravada practice tradition despite its absence in the Theravada commentaries and Abhidhamma, is that the mind of the arahant is itself \"nibbāna\".\n\nK.N. Jayatilleke, a modern Sri Lankan Buddhist philosopher, holds that nirvana must be understood by a careful study of the Pali texts. Jayatilleke argues that the Pali works show that nirvana means 'extinction' as well as 'the highest positive experience of happiness'. Jayatilleke writes that despite the definition of nirvana as 'extinction', this does not mean that it is a kind of annihilation or a state of dormant nonentity, for this contradicts the statements of the Buddha that reject this interpretation. Jayatilleke holds that the early texts clearly proclaim that nothing can be said about the state of the Buddha after \"paranibbana\" (the end of his psycho-physical personality) because \"we do not have the concepts or words to describe adequately the state of the emancipated person.\" This transcendent reality which our normal minds cannot grasp is not located in time or space, it is not causally conditioned, and beyond existence and non-existence. Because trying to explain \"nibbana\" by means of logic is impossible, the only thing to be done is to explain how to reach it, instead of dwelling on what it \"is\". Explaining what happens to the Buddha after nibbana is thus said to be an unanswerable.\n\nA similarly apophatic position is also defended by Walpola Rahula, who states that the question of what nirvana is \"can never be answered completely and satisfactorily in words, because human language is too poor to express the real nature of the Absolute Truth or Ultimate Reality which is Nirvana.\" Rahula affirms that nibbana is most often described in negative terms because there is less danger in grasping at these terms, such as \"the cessation of continuity and becoming (\"bhavanirodha\")\", \"the abandoning and destruction of desire and craving for these five aggregates of attachment\", and \"the extinction of \"thirst\" (\"tanhakkhayo\").\" Rahula also affirms however that nibbana is not a negative or an annihilation, because there is no self to be annihilated and because 'a negative word does not necessarily indicate a negative state'. Rahula also notes that more positive terms are used to describe nibbana such as \"freedom\" (\"mutti\") and \"truth\" (\"sacca\"). Rahula also agrees that nirvana is unconditioned.\n\nThe American Theravada monk Bhikkhu Bodhi has defended the traditional Theravada view which sees nirvana as \"a reality transcendent to the entire world of mundane experience, a reality transcendent to all the realms of phenomenal existence.\"\n\nThe Sri Lankan philosopher David Kalupahana has taken a different position, he argues that the Buddha's \"main philosophical insight\" is the principle of causality (dependent origination) and that this \"is operative in all spheres, including the highest state of spiritual development, namely, nirvana.\" According to Kalupahana \"later scholars attempted to distinguish two spheres, one in which causation prevailed and the other which is uncaused. This latter view was, no doubt, the result of a confusion in the meanings of the two terms, \"sankhata\" ('compounded') and \"paticcasamuppanna\" ('causally conditioned').\" Thus, even though nibbana is termed \"asankhata\" (un-compounded, not-put together) there is no statement in the early texts which say that nirvana is \"not\" dependently originated or is uncaused (the term would be \"appaticcasamuppana\"). He thus argues that \"nirvana is a state where there is 'natural or causal happening' (\"paticcasamuppada\"), but not 'organized,' or 'planned' conditioning (\"sankha-rana\")\", as well as \"a state of perfect mental health (\"aroga\"), of perfect happiness (\"parama sukha\"), calmness or coolness (\"sitibhuta\"), and stability (\"aneñja\"), etc. attained in this life, or while one is alive.\"\n\nMahasi Sayadaw, one of the most influential 20th century Theravada \"vipassana\" teachers, states in his \"On the nature of Nibbana\" that \"nibbana is perfect peace (\"santi\")\" and \"the complete annihilation of the three cycles of defilement, action, and result of action, which all go to create mind and matter, volitional activities, etc.\" He further states that for arahants \"no new life is formed after his decease-consciousness.\" Mahasi Sayadaw further states that nibbana is the cessation of the five aggregates which is like \"a flame being extinguished\". However this doesn't mean that \"an arahant as an individual has disappeared\" because there is no such thing as an \"individual\" in an ultimate sense, even though we use this term conventionally. Ultimate however, \"there is only a succession of mental and physical phenomena arising and dissolving.\" For this reason, Mahasi Sayadaw holds that although for an arahant \"cessation means the extinction of the successive rise and fall of the aggregates\" this is not the view of annihilation (\"uccheda-diṭṭhi\") since there is ultimately no individual to be annihilated. Mahasi further notes that \"feeling [\"vedana\"] ceases with the parinibbāna of the Arahant\" and also that \"the cessation of senses is nibbāna\" (citing the \"Pañcattaya Sutta\"). Mahasi also affirms that even though nibbana is the \"cessation of mind, matter, and mental formations\" and even the cessation of \"formless consciousness\", it is not nothing, but it is an \"absolute reality\" and he also affirms that \"the peace of nibbana is real.\"\nIn Thai Theravada, as well as among some modern Theravada scholars, there are alternative interpretations which differ from the traditional orthodox Theravada view. These interpretations see nibbana as equivalent in some way with either a special kind of mind (\"pabhassara citta\") or a special consciousness called \"anidassana viññāṇa,\" \"non-manifest\" consciousness which is said to be 'luminous'. In one interpretation, the \"luminous consciousness\" is identical with nibbana. Others disagree, finding it to be not nibbana itself, but instead to be a kind of consciousness accessible only to arahants.\n\nSome teachers of the Thai forest tradition, such as Ajahn Maha Bua taught an idea called \"original mind\" which when perfected is said to exist as a separate reality from the world and the aggregates\".\" According to Maha Bua, the indestructible mind or \"citta\" is characterized by awareness or knowing, which is intrinsically bright (\"pabhassaram\") and radiant, and though it is tangled or \"darkened\" in samsara, it is not destroyed. This mind is unconditioned, deathless and an independent reality. According to Bua, this mind is impure, but when it is purified of the defilements, it remains abiding in its own foundation. Maha Bua also publicly argued (in a newspaper in 1972) that one could meet with and discuss the teachings with arahants and Buddhas of the past (and that Ajahn Mun had done so) therefore positing that nibbana is a kind of higher existence. Prayudh Payutto, a modern scholar-monk who is widely seen as the most influential authority on Buddhist doctrine in Thailand, has played a prominent role in arguing against the views of Maha Bua, strictly basing his views on the Pali canon to refute such notions. \n\nAjahns Pasanno and Amaro, contemporary western monastics in the Thai forest tradition, note that these ideas are rooted in a passage in the Anguttara Nikaya (1.61-62) which mentions a certain \"pabhassara citta\". Citing another passage from the canon which mentions a \"consciousness that is signless, boundless, all-luminous\" (called \"anidassana viññāṇa\") they state that this \"must mean a knowing of a primordial, transcendent nature.\"\n\nA related view of nibbana has been defended by the American Thai forest monk Thanissaro Bhikkhu. According to Thanissaro, \"non-manifestive consciousness\" (\"anidassana viññāṇa\") differs from the kinds of consciousness associated to the six sense media, which have a \"surface\" that they fall upon and arise in response to. In a liberated individual, this is directly experienced, in a way that is free from any dependence on conditions at all. In Thanissaro's view, the luminous, unsupported consciousness associated with nibbana is directly known by noble ones without the mediation of the mental consciousness factor in dependent co-arising, and is the transcending of all objects of mental consciousness. The British academic Peter Harvey has defended a similar view of nibbana as \"anidassana viññāṇa\".\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, there is also a trend in modern Thai Theravada that argues that \"nirvana is indeed the true Self (\"Atman\"; Pali: \"atta\")\". This dispute began when the 12th Supreme Patriarch of Thailand published a book of essays in 1939 arguing that while the conditioned world is \"anatta\", nibbana is \"atta\". According to Williams, this interpretation echoes the Mahayana \"tathāgatagarbha\" sutras. This position was criticized by Buddhadhasa Bhikkhu, who argued that the not-self (\"anatta\") perspective is what makes Buddhism unique. Fifty years after this dispute, the Dhammakaya Movement also began to teach that nibbana is not anatta, but the \"true self\" or \"dhammakaya\". According to Williams, this \"dhammakaya\" (dharma body) is \"a luminous, radiant and clear Buddha figure free of all defilements and situated within the body of the meditator.\" This view has been strongly criticized as \"insulting the Buddha’s teaching\" and \"showing disrespect to the Pali canon\" by Prayudh Payutto (In his \"The Dhammakaya case\") and this has led to fervent debates in Thai Buddhist circles.\n\nAnother western monastic in the thai forest tradition, Ajahn Brahmāli, has recently written against all of these views, drawing on a careful study of the Nikāyas. Brahmāli concludes that the \"most reasonable interpretation\" of final nibbāna is \"no more than the cessation of the five khandhas.\" Brahmāli also notes that there is a kind of samādhi that is attainable only by the awakened and is based on their knowledge of nibbana (but is \"not\" nibbana itself), this meditation is what is being referred to by terms such as non-manifest consciousness (\"anidassana viññāṇa\") and unestablished consciousness (\"appatiṭṭhita viññāṇa\"). \n\nThe later Buddhist Abhidharma schools gave different meaning and interpretations of the term, moving away from the original metaphor of the extinction of the \"three fires\". The Sarvastivada Abhidharma compendium, the \"Mahavibhasasastra,\" says of nirvana: As it is the cessation of defilements (klesanirodha), it is called nirvana. As it is the extinction of the triple fires, it is called nirvana. As it is the tranquility of three characteristics, it is called nirvana. As there is separation (viyoga) from bad odor (durgandha), it is called nirvana. As there is separation from destinies (gati), it is called nirvana. Vana means forest and nir means escape. As it is the escape from the forest of the aggregates, it is called nirvana. Vana means weaving and nir means negation. As there is no weaving, it is called nirvana. In a way that one with thread can easily be woven while one without that cannot be woven, in that way one with action (karma) and defilements (klesa) can easily be woven into life and death while an asaiksa who is without any action and defilements cannot be woven into life and death. That is why it is called nirvana. Vana means new birth and nir means negation. As there is no more new birth, it is called nirvana. Vana means bondage and nir means separation. As it is separation from bondage, it is called nirvana. Vana means all discomforts of life and death and nir means passing beyond. As it passes beyond all discomforts of life and death, it is called nirvana.According to Soonil Hwang, the Sarvastivada school held that there were two kinds of nirodha (extinction), extinction without knowledge (\"apratisamkhyanirodha\") and extinction through knowledge (\"pratisamkhyanirodha\"), which is the equivalent of nirvana. In the Sarvastivada Abhidharma, extinction through knowledge was equivalent to nirvana, and was defined by its intrinsic nature (\"svabhava\"), ‘all extinction which is disjunction (\"visamyoga\")’. This dharma is defined by the \"Abhidharmakosha\" as \"a special understanding, the penetration (\"pratisamkhyana\") of suffering and the other noble truths.\" Soonil explains the Sarvastivada view of nirvana as \"the perpetual separation of an impure dharma from a series of aggregates through the antidote, ‘acquisition of disjunction’ (\"visamyogaprapti\").\" Because the Sarvastivadins held that all dharmas exist in the three times, they saw the destruction of defilements as impossible and thus \"the elimination of a defilement is referred to as a ‘separation’ from the series.\" Soonil adds:That is to say, the acquisition of the defilement is negated, or technically ‘disjoined’ (\"visamyoga\"), through the power of knowledge that terminates the junction between that defilement and the series of aggregates. By reason of this separation, then, there arises ‘the acquisition of disjunction’ (\"visamyogaprapti\") that serves as an antidote (\"pratipaksa\"), which henceforward prevents the junction between the defilement and this series. The Sarvastivadins also held that nirvana was a real existent (\"dravyasat\") which perpetually protects a series of dharmas from defilements in the past, present and future. Their interpretation of nirvana became an issue of debate between them and the Sautrantika school. For the Sautrantikas, nirvana \"was not a real existent but a mere designation (\"prajñaptisat\") and was non-existence succeeding existence (\"pascadabhava\").\" It is something merely spoken of conventionally, without an intrinsic nature (\"svabhava\"). The \"Abhidharmakosha\", explaining the Sautrantika view of nirvana, states:The extinction through knowledge is, when latent defilements (\"anusaya\") and life (\"janman\") that have already been produced are extinguished, non-arising of further such by the power of knowledge (\"pratisamkhya\"). Thus for the Sautrantikas, nirvana was simply the \"non-arising of further latent defilement when all latent defilements that have been produced have already been extinguished.\" \n\nMeanwhile, the Pudgalavada school interpreted nirvana as the single Absolute truth which constitutes \"the negation, absence, cessation of all that constitutes the world in which we live, act and suffer\". According to Thiện Châu, for the Pudgalavadins, nirvana is seen as totally different than the compounded realm, since it the uncompounded (\"asamskrta\") realm where no compounded things exist, and it is also beyond reasoning and expression. One of the few surviving Pudgalavada texts defines nirvana as:Absolute truth is the definitive cessation of all activities of speech (vac) and of all thoughts (citta). Activity is bodily action (kayakarman): speech (vac) is that of the voice (vakkarman); thought is that of the mind (manaskarman). If these three (actions) cease definitively, that is absolute truth which is Nirvana. \n\nAccording to Andre Bareau, the Mahāsāṃghika school held that the nirvana reached by arhats was fundamentally inferior to that of the Buddhas. Regarding the nirvana reached by the Buddha, they held that his longevity (\"ayu\"), his body (\"rupa, sarira\") and divine power (\"tejas\") were infinite, unlimited and supramundane (\"lokuttara\"). Therefore, they held to a kind of docetism which posited that Buddhas only \"appear\" to be born into the world and thus when they die and enter nirvana, this is only a fiction. In reality, the Buddha remains in the form of a body of enjoyment (\"sambhogakaya\") and continues to create many forms (\"nirmana\") adapted to the different needs of beings in order to teach them through clever means (\"upaya\"). \n\nAccording to Guang Xing, Mahāsāṃghikas held that there were two aspects of a Buddha's attainment: the true Buddha who is omniscient and omnipotent, and the manifested forms through which he liberates sentient beings through his skillful means. For the Mahāsāṃghikas, the historical Gautama Buddha was merely one of these transformation bodies (Skt. \"nirmāṇakāya\"). \n\nBareau also writes that for the Mahāsāṃghika school, only wisdom (prajña) can reach nirvana, not samadhi. Bareau notes that this might be the source of the \"prajñaparamita\" sutras. \n\nRegarding the Ekavyāvahārika branch of the Mahāsāṃghikas, Bareau states that both samsara and nirvana were nominal designations (\"prajñapti\") and devoid of any real substance. According to Nalinaksha Dutt, for the Ekavyāvahārika, all dharmas are conventional and thus unreal (even the absolute was held to be contingent or dependent) while for the Lokottaravada branch, worldly dharmas are unreal but supramundane dharmas like nirvana are real.\n\nThe Mahāyāna (Great Vehicle) tradition, which promotes the bodhisattva path as the highest spiritual ideal over the goal of arhatship, envisions a different view of nirvana than the Nikaya Buddhist schools. The classic Mahāyāna view posits that there are at least two types of nirvana, holding that what is called \"<nowiki>\"</nowiki>apratiṣṭhita-nirvana<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\" (\"non-abiding\", non-localized\", \"non-fixed\") to be the highest nirvana, and more profound than \"<nowiki>\"</nowiki>pratiṣṭhita-nirvāṇa<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\", the ‘localized’, lesser nirvana. According to classic Mahāyāna theory, this lesser, abiding nirvana is achieved by followers of the \"inferior\" vehicle (\"hinayana\") schools which are said to only work towards their own personal liberation. From this perspective, the hinayana path only leads to one's own liberation, either as sravaka (listener, hearer, or disciple) or as pratyekabuddha (solitary realizer).\n\nAccording to Robert Buswell and Donald Lopez, \"<nowiki>\"</nowiki>apratiṣṭhita-nirvana<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\" is the standard Mahāyāna view of the attainment of a Buddha, which enables them to freely return to \"samsara\" in order to help sentient beings, while still being in a kind of nirvana. The Mahāyāna path is thus said to aim at a further realization, namely an active Buddhahood that does not dwell in a static \"nirvana\", but out of compassion (\"karuṇā\") engages in enlightened activity to liberate beings for as long as \"samsara\" remains. \"Apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" is said to be reached when bodhisattvas eradicate both the afflictive obstructions (\"klesavarana\") and the obstructions to omniscience (\"jñeyavarana\"), and is therefore different than the nirvana of arhats, who have eradicated only the former.\n\nAccording to Alan Sponberg, \"apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" is \"a nirvana that is not permanently established in, or bound to, any one realm or sphere of activity\". This is contrasted with a kind of nirvana which is \"permanently established or fixed (\"pratiṣṭhita\") in the transcendent state of nirvana-without-remainder (\"nirupadhisesa-nirvana\").\" According to Sponberg this doctrine developed among Yogacara Buddhists who rejected earlier views which were based on an individual liberation aimed at a transcendent state, separated from the mundane sphere of human existence. Mahayana Buddhists rejected this view as inconsistent with the universalist Mahayana ideal of the salvation of all beings and with the absolutist non-dual Mahayana perspective that did not see an ultimate distinction between samsara and nirvana. Sponberg also notes that the Madhyamika school also had a hand in developing this idea, due to their rejection of dualistic concepts which separated samsara and nirvana and their promotion of a form of liberation which was totally without duality. \n\nThough the idea that Buddhas remain active in the world can be traced back to the Mahasamghika school, the term \"apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" seems to be a Yogacara innovation. According to Gadjin Nagao, the term is likely to be an innovation of the Yogacaras, and possibly of the scholar Asanga (fl. 4th century CE). Sponberg states that this doctrine presents a \"Soteriological Innovation in Yogacara Buddhism\" which can be found mainly in works of the Yogacara school such as the \"Sandhinirmocana-sutra,\" the \"Lankavatarasutra\", the \"Mahayanasutralamkara\", and is most fully worked out in the \"Mahayana-samgraha\" of Asanga. In Chapter IX of the \"samgraha\", Asanga presents the classic definition of \"apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" in the context of discussing the severing of mental obstacles (\"avarana\"):This severing is the \"apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" of the bodhisattva. It has as its characteristic (\"laksana\") the revolution (\"paravrtti\") of the dual base (\"asraya\") in which one relinquishes all defilements (\"klesa\"), but does not abandon the world of death and rebirth (\"samsara\"). In his commentary on this passage, Asvabhava (6th century), states that the wisdom which leads to this state is termed non-discriminating cognition (\"nirvikalpaka-jñana)\" and he also notes that this state is a union of wisdom (\"prajña\") and compassion (\"karuna\"): The bodhisattva dwells in this revolution of the base as if in an immaterial realm (\"arupyadhatu\"). On the one hand—with respect to his own personal interests (\"svakartham\")—he is fully endowed with superior wisdom (\"adhiprajña\") and is thus not subject to the afflictions (\"klesa\") while on the other hand—with respect to the interests of other beings (\"parartham\")—he is fully endowed with great compassion (\"mahakaruna\") and thus never ceases to dwell in the world of death and re-birth (\"samsara\"). According to Sponberg, in Yogacara, the Buddha's special wisdom that allows participation in both nirvana and samsara, termed non-discriminating cognition (\"nirvikalpaka-jñana)\" has various aspects: a negative aspect which is free from discrimination that binds one to samsara and positive and dynamic aspects which intuitively cognize the Absolute and give a Buddha \"access to the Absolute without yielding efficacy in the relative.\" \n\nMost sutras of the Mahāyāna tradition, states Jan Nattier, present three alternate goals of the path: Arhatship, Pratyekabuddhahood, and Buddhahood. However, according an influential Mahāyāna text called the Lotus Sutra, while the lesser attainment of individual \"nirvana\" is taught as a skillful means by the Buddha in order to help beings of lesser capacities; ultimately, the highest and \"only\" goal is the attainment of Buddhahood. The Lotus sutra further states that, although these three paths are \"seemingly\" taught by Buddhas as separate vehicles (\"yana\"), they are really all just skillful ways (\"upaya\") of teaching a single path (\"ekayana\"), which is the bodhisattva path to full Buddhahood. Thus, these three separate goals are not really different at all, the 'lesser' paths are actually just clever teaching devices used by Buddhas to get people to practice, eventually though, they will be led to the one and only path of Mahāyāna and full Buddhahood.\n\nThe Mahāyāna commentary the \"Abhisamayalamkara\" presents the path of the bodhisattva as a progressive formula of \"Five Paths\" (\"pañcamārga\"). A practitioner on the \"Five Paths\" advances through a progression of ten stages, referred to as the bodhisattva \"bhūmis\" (grounds or levels).\n\nThe end stage practice of the Mahāyāna removes the imprints of delusions, the obstructions to omniscience (\"sarvākārajñatā\"), which prevent simultaneous and direct knowledge of all phenomena. Only Buddhas have overcome these obstructions and, therefore, only Buddhas have omniscience knowledge, which refers to the power of a being in some way to have \"simultaneous knowledge of all things whatsoever\". From the Mahāyāna point of view, an arhat who has achieved the nirvana of the Lesser Vehicle will still have certain subtle obscurations that prevent the arhat from realizing complete omniscience. When these final obscurations are removed, the practitioner will attain \"apratiṣṭhita-nirvana\" and achieve full omniscience.\n\nSome Mahāyāna traditions see the Buddha in docetic terms, viewing his visible manifestations as projections from its nirvanic state. According to Etienne Lamotte, Buddhas are always and at all times in nirvana, and their corporeal displays of themselves and their Buddhic careers are ultimately illusory. Lamotte writes of the Buddhas:\n\nThis doctrine, developed among the Mahāsaṃghikas, where the historical person, Gautama Buddha, was one of these transformation bodies (Skt. \"nirmāṇakāya\"), while the essential Buddha is equated with the transcendental Buddha called \"dharmakāya\". In Mahāyāna, this eventually developed into the doctrine of the \"Three Bodies\" of the Buddha (\"Trikaya\"). This doctrine is interpreted in different ways by the different Mahāyāna traditions. According to Reginald Ray, it is \"the body of reality itself, without specific, delimited form, wherein the Buddha is identified with the spiritually charged nature of everything that is.\"\n\nAn alternative idea of Mahāyāna nirvana is found in the \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\". The title itself means a \"garbha\" (womb, matrix, seed) containing \"Tathagata\" (Buddha). These Sutras suggest, states Paul Williams, that 'all sentient beings contain a Tathagata' as their 'essence, core or essential inner nature'. The \"tathāgatagarbha\" doctrine \"(\"also called \"buddhadhatu, buddha-nature)\", at its earliest probably appeared about the later part of the 3rd century CE, and is verifiable in Chinese translations of 1st millennium CE. Most scholars consider the \"tathāgatagarbha\" doctrine of an 'essential nature' in every living being is equivalent to 'Self', and it contradicts the \"no self\" (or no soul, no atman, anatta) doctrines in a vast majority of Buddhist texts, leading scholars to posit that the \"Tathagatagarbha Sutras\" were written to promote Buddhism to non-Buddhists. The Mahāyāna tradition thus often discusses nirvana with its concept of the \"tathāgatagarbha\", the innate presence of Buddhahood. According to Alex Wayman, Buddha nature has its roots in the idea of an innately pure luminous mind (\"prabhasvara citta\"), \"which is only adventitiously covered over by defilements (\"agantukaklesa\")\" lead to the development of the concept of Buddha-nature, the idea that Buddha-hood is already innate, but not recognised. \n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" has numerous interpretations in the various schools of Mahāyāna and Vajrayana Buddhism. Indian Madhyamaka philosophers generally interpreted the theory as a description of emptiness and as a non implicative negation (a negation which leaves nothing un-negated). According to Karl Brunnholzl, early Indian Yogacaras like Asanga and Vasubandhu referred to the term as \"nothing but suchness in the sense of twofold identitylessness\". However some later Yogacarins like Ratnakarasanti considered it \"equivalent to naturally luminous mind, nondual self-awareness.\"\n\nThe debate as to whether \"tathāgatagarbha\" was just a way to refer to emptiness or whether it referred to some kind of mind or consciousness also resumed in Chinese Buddhism, with some Chinese Yogacarins, like Fazang and Ratnamati supporting the idea that it was an eternal non-dual mind, while Chinese Madhyamikas like Jizang rejecting this view and seeing \"tathāgatagarbha\" as emptiness and \"the middle way.\" \n\nIn some Tantric Buddhist texts such as the \"Samputa Tantra,\" nirvana is described as purified, non-dualistic 'superior mind'. \n\nIn Tibetan Buddhist philosophy, the debate continues to this day. There are those like the Gelug school, who argue that \"tathāgatagarbha\" is just emptiness (described either as \"dharmadhatu\", the nature of phenomena, or a nonimplicative negation). Then there are those who see it as the non-dual union of the mind's unconditioned emptiness and conditioned lucidity (the view of Gorampa of the Sakya school). Others such as the Jonang school and some Kagyu figures, see \"tathāgatagarbha\" as a kind of Absolute which \"is empty of adventitious defilements which are intrinsically other than it, but is not empty of its own inherent existence\".\n\nAccording to some scholars, the language used in the \"tathāgatagarbha\" genre of sutras can be seen as an attempt to state orthodox Buddhist teachings of dependent origination using positive language. Kosho Yamamoto translates the explanation of nirvana in the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" (c. 100-220 CE) as follows: \nIn the \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\", the Buddha speak of four attributes which make up nirvana. Writing on this Mahayana understanding of nirvana, William Edward Soothill and Lewis Hodous state:\n\n\"Further notes on \"different paths\"\"\n\"Further notes on quotes\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2891912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2891912", "title": "Non-abidance", "text": "Non-abidance\n\nIn Buddhism, especially the Chan (Zen) traditions, non-abidance (in Sanskrit: \"apratiṣṭhita\", with the \"a-\" prefix, ‘unlimited’, ‘unlocalized’) is the practice of avoiding mental constructs during daily life. That is, other than while engaged in meditation (\"Zazen\").\n\nSome schools of Buddhism, especially the Mahāyāna, consider \"apratisthita-nirvana\" (\"non-abiding cessation\") to be the highest form of Buddhahood, more profound than \"pratiṣṭhita-nirvāṇa\", the ‘localized’, lesser form. According to Robert Buswell and Donald Lopez, \"apratisthita-nirvana\" is the standard mahayana view of buddhahood, which enables them to freely return to samsara in order to help sentient beings, while still remaining in nirvana and being a buddha via the usage of nirmanakaya and sambhogakaya.\n\nHere, \"abide\" is used to translate \"pratiṣṭhita\", meaning \"to be contained in [a locale]\" or \"situated\", from the prefix \"prati-\" ('towards', 'in the direction of') and \"ṣṭhita\" ('established', 'set up').\n\nTo translate \"pratiṣṭhita\", Chinese Buddhists used \"zhù\" (住), literally \"to reside, lodge, remain\". Both \"wúsuǒzhù\" (無所住 'no means of staying') and \"wúzhù\" (無住 'not staying') are used for \"apratiṣṭhita\".\n\nThe \"Diamond Sutra\", a classic Buddhist text, is primarily concerned with the idea of non-abidance. The concept seems to have originated with the 1st-century Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna, whose version of \"śūnyatā\", or emptiness, entails that entities neither exist, nor do they not exist.\n\nRealizing the depth of this concept was also responsible of a Chan master's sudden enlightenment. The \"Platform Sutra\" relates how the spiritual patriarch Huineng was enlightened after hearing his master Hongren reciting from the \"Diamond Sutra\":\n\nHuineng then responded that self-natures are intrinsically pure, cannot be generated or extinguished, are self-sufficient and capable of generating \"dharma\".\nHowever, this key incident, though found in the majority of texts, is absent in the older Dunhuang version.\n\nThe scholar-monk Qisong (契嵩) also noted in his foreword of the \"Platform Sutra\":\nNon-abiding leads to \"prajñā\" (wisdom), as it enables one to consider that worldly issues are empty, so there is no point in retaliation or disputes.\n"}
{"id": "1919340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919340", "title": "Pacem in terris", "text": "Pacem in terris\n\nPacem in terris () was a papal encyclical issued by Pope John XXIII on 11 April 1963 on the rights and obligations of individuals and of the state, as well as the proper relations between states. It emphasized human dignity and equality among all people, and made mention of issues such as the rights of women, nuclear non-proliferation, and the United Nations, all of which it endorsed. It was the last encyclical drafted by John XXIII, who had been diagnosed with cancer in September 1962 and died two months after the encyclical's completion. Biographer Peter Hebblethwaite called it Pope John's \"last will and testament\". Published on Holy Thursday, the Pope called it his \"Easter gift\".\n\nDue to her importance and popularity, \"Pacem in Terris\" is deposited at the UN archives.\n\nThe full title of the encyclical is \"On Establishing Universal Peace in Truth, Justice, Charity and Liberty\". The short title \"Pacem in terris\" is derived from the opening words of the encyclical, as is customary with papal documents:\n\n\"Pacem in terris\" was the first encyclical that a pope addressed to \"all men of good will\", rather than only to Catholics, quote of the praise to God said by the heavenly army above the manger of Bethlehem (Latin Vulgate: \"in terra pax in hominibus bonae voluntatis\", Luke ; English translation: ). Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, Mary Ann Glendon, interprets this to mean \"He was insisting that the responsibility for setting conditions for peace does not just belong to the great and powerful of the world—it belongs to each and every one of us.\" In theological terms, it marked a major shift in papal teaching from reliance on classical scholastic categories of natural law to a more inductive approach based on the signs of the times.\n\nIn this work, John XXIII reacted to the political situation in the middle of the Cold War. Coming just months after the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, during which the Vatican served as an intermediary between the White House and the Kremlin, the document also reflected the Pope's experience of 1960 in trying to resolve difficulties arising out the four-power occupation of Berlin. The \"peace encyclical\" was issued only two years after the erection of the Berlin Wall. It also draws on Pope John's reading of Saint Augustines \"The City of God\" and Thomas Aquinas' view of Eternal Law. In this it echoes the Gospel’s core values and principles of patristic and medieval thought, while reflecting the historical period in which it was written.\n\nSociologist Monsignor Pietro Pavan and a small group of theologians helped draft it. In Pavan’s view \"Pacem in terris\" would present the teachings of Leo XIII on the eternal law, \"in light of the changing tides of history, and allow them to resonate with a much wider audience\".\n\nThe Pope explains in this encyclical that conflicts \"should not be resolved by recourse to arms, but rather by negotiation\". He further emphasizes the importance of respect of human rights as an essential consequence of the Christian understanding of men and nuclear disarmament. He clearly establishes \"...That every man has the right to life, to bodily integrity, and to the means which are suitable for the proper development of life...\"\n\n\"Pacem in terris\" is an extended reflection on the moral order. The document is divided into four sections.\n\n“Pacem in Terris was more than an encyclical—it was an event,\" recalls Glendon.\n\"Pacem in Terris\" was the first papal encyclical published in its entirety in the \"New York Times\". The \"Washington Post\" said, \"\"Pacem in terris\" is not just the voice of an old priest, nor just that of an ancient Church; it is the voice of the conscience of the world.” Two years later, it was the subject of a conference at the United Nations attended by over 2,000 statespersons and scholars.\n\nF. Russell Hittinger describes the encyclical \"as a kind of magna carta of the Catholic Church’s position on human rights and natural law\". Pope John XXIII's 1963 encyclical \"Pacem in terris\" (\"Peace on Earth\") radically affected Catholic social teaching not only on war and peace, but on church-state relations, women's rights, religious freedom, international relations and other major issues. Fr. J. Bryan Hehir, called \"Pacem in terris\" \"a pivotal text in [papal] encyclical history\" that played a major role in the development of the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Religious Freedom and its Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World, and on Pope John Paul II's encyclical \"Centesimus annus\" (\"The Hundredth Year\"), which marked the centennial of Pope Leo XIII's 1891 encyclical on labor, Rerum Novarum. It also influenced the 1965 \"Declaration on Religious Freedom\" (Dignitatis humanae).\n\nIn commemoration of this encyclical, the annual \"Pacem in Terris Peace and Freedom award\" was instituted in 1964, first by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Davenport and later by the \"Quad Cities Pacem in Terris Coalition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34866140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34866140", "title": "Person–situation debate", "text": "Person–situation debate\n\nThe person–situation debate in personality psychology refers to the controversy concerning whether the person or the situation is more influential in determining a person's behavior. Personality trait psychologists believe that people have consistent personalities that guide their behaviors across situations. Situationists, opponents of the trait approach, argue that people are not consistent enough from situation to situation to be characterized by broad personality traits.\n\nInterest in determining whether there were any generalities in behavior began in the 1920s and 30s. Gordon Allport and Henry Murray both supported the idea of a consistent personality with occasional situational influences. Allport noted that \"traits become predictable to the extent that identities in stimulus situations are predictable.\" Others like Edward Thorndike viewed behavior as a composition of responses an individual has to situations.\n\nIn 1968, Walter Mischel published a book called \"Personality and Assessment\" claiming that behavior is too cross-situationally inconsistent to be classified with personality traits. He stated:\n\n\"...with the possible exception of intelligence, highly generalised behavioral consistencies have not been demonstrated, and the concept of personality traits as broad dispositions is thus untenable\"\n\nHis book was a non-systematic meta-analysis of some of the research on the relationship between behavioral and personality traits (assessed by either self-report or peer-report). The book also assessed studies regarding measurements of behavior from one situation to another. This book generated a formidable dispute between social psychologists and trait theorists because trait questionnaires had been used to measure personality for many decades. Behaviorism had dominated the field of psychology up until this time, making Mischel's claim devastating to the mainstream consensus amongst personality psychologists and causing many psychologists to question and doubt whether personality exists.\n\nAccording to David C. Funder, Mischel's book posed three main questions: \n\nMore recently, Mischel has retracted some of his original claims, protesting that some psychologists misinterpreted his argument to mean he believes personality does not exist.\n\nSituationists had a number of arguments, but they can be generally summarized into four:\n\n\nBecause of the aforementioned points, situationists argued that the predictive ability of personality traits is severely lacking. Opponents of the trait approach claimed that the idea of personality traits is fundamentally flawed and that behavior would be better understood through conditioning and learning processes.\n\nOver time, personality psychologists have formed rebuttals to Mischel's criticisms. According to Funder, Mischel's analysis was quite short (only 16 pages), and therefore was not comprehensive of the personality literature available at the time. With a fair review of the literature, the predictability of behavior from traits may be larger than what researchers previously assumed.\n\nImproved research methods can increase the predictability. The situationist argument was formed based on research studies that were conducted in laboratory situations, and therefore did not reflect behavior in real life. When studying behaviors in a more natural setting, personality is likely to influence behavior. According to Allport, personality will be more likely to exhibit greater apparent effects in real situations that are important and influential to the individual being observed.\n\nPredictability can also be influenced depending on what is being measured, and some behaviors may be more consistent than others. For example, the amount a person gestures or the volume of a person's voice are more likely to be consistent across situations than goal-directed behaviors, such as when a person is trying to impress another person.\n\nIt may also be that on average, individuals act consistently, and therefore personality research may be more telling as general behavioral trends than specific instances. This is evident in when people are interested in personalities of others, they are more interested in how others will generally act, not one specific behavior at a specific time.\n\nA correlation of .40 is not that small of a correlation and can explain more variance than most people think. Correlation coefficients of the effects found in studies of personality variables cannot be comparable with effects found in studies of situational variables because the two styles of research do not employ a common metric. After converting the statistics that social psychologists use in analyzing situation variables and behavior into correlations used by personality psychologists in analyzing trait variables and behavior, Funder and Daniel J. Ozer found that the correlations between situations and behaviors are also around the .30–.40 range. After conversion, it was found that even well-respected studies, like the one conducted by Stanley Milgram on obedience that used fake electric shocks to study how people react to being asked to cause harm to others (Milgram Experiment), found correlations of situations and behaviors to be around .40. Moreover, survey studies that compare the effects of situational variables on behavior show that the correlation between situation and behavior are also around the .30–.40 range. Seymour Epstein found that if the behaviors were aggregated over time, the cross situational consistency of behaviors is much higher. Even in highly controlled studies, cross-situational consistency is around the .40 range.\n\nPersonality traits are important because personality traits exist. The field of personality psychology gained attention when Allport had his assistant, Henry Odbert, count how many different words in the English dictionary could be used to describe differences in personality. Odbert reported 17, 953. With such a large number of words that are related to personality trait differences, Allport and Odbert proposed the Lexical hypothesis, or the theory that traits are obviously an important part of how people think and talk about each other, or else it would not be a part of the language. Words that make people more sensitive to individual differences are continuing to be created and formed today.\n\nMischel's book raised important questions about trait concepts and measures in psychological research. Researchers like Douglas Kenrick and Funder note that controversy is beneficial to scientific research because it helps narrow down competing hypotheses.\n\nMost personality researchers have now concluded that both the person and the situation contribute to behavior. Specifically, situational variables are more conclusive when it comes to predicting behavior in specific situations, while traits are more descriptive of patterns of behavior that influence behavior across situations. Some researchers have also suggested the possibility of situational factors (like social roles) eliciting situation-specific goals which then influence the development of personality traits.\n\nThe interactionism perspective recognizes that the effect of personality depends on the situation and that situations are affected by the personalities of the people who are present. Interactionism also recognizes that people often choose situations that reflect their personalities. One of the many interactionism researchers, Allan R. Buss, introduced the idea that persons and situations interact in three different ways: \n\nA commonly used example of person-situation interaction is the Stanford prison experiment, where college students participated in a study that simulated a prison setting with some students acting as guards and others as prisoners. The study was terminated when the guards became even more abusive than anticipated. While Philip Zimbardo concluded that the study shows evidence of the effect of the situation transcending personality traits, more recent studies show that these students were drawn to participate in a study of \"prison life\" because of their personality characteristics.\n\nRecently, personality psychologists William Fleeson and Erik Noftle have suggested that the person-situation debate ended in a synthesis. According to them, there is more than one type of behavior consistency. Traits are not robustly predictive of cross-situational consistency, but rather, predictive of consistency for a wide distribution of behaviors over time. Fleeson has also proposed that traits can be better understood as density distributions of behaviors. He posited that an individual has an anchor mean level of a trait, but the individual's behavior can vary around this mean depending on situations. Therefore, this distribution could account for the low cross-situational consistency of single acts of behavior while also explaining the high consistency of behaviors over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "27740497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27740497", "title": "Preference-based planning", "text": "Preference-based planning\n\nIn artificial intelligence, preference-based planning is a form of automated planning and scheduling which focuses on producing plans that additionally satisfy as many user-specified preferences as possible. In many problem domains, a task can be accomplished by various sequences of actions (also known as plans). These plans can vary in quality: there can be many ways to solve a problem but one generally prefers a way that is, e.g., cost-effective, quick and safe.\n\nPreference-based planners take these preferences into account when producing a plan for a given problem. Examples of preference-based planning software include \"PPLAN\" and \"HTNPlan-P\" (preference-based HTN planning).\n\nPreferences can be regarded as soft constraints on a plan. The quality of a plan increases when more preferences are satisfied but it may not be possible to satisfy all preferences in a single plan. This differs from hard constraints which must be satisfied in all plans produced by the planning software. These hard constraints are part of the domain knowledge while the soft constraints (or preferences) are separately specified by the user. This allows the same domain knowledge to be reused for various users who may have different preferences.\n\nThe use of preferences may also increase the length of a plan in order to satisfy more preferences. For example, when planning a journey from home to school, the user may prefer to buy a cup of coffee along the way. The planning software could now plan to visit Starbucks first and then continue to school. This increases the length of the plan but the user's preference is satisfied.\n\nThe Planning Domain Definition Language (as of version 3.0) supports the specification of preferences through codice_1 statements. For example, the statement\n\nindicates that the user prefers that codice_3 should be clean at each state of the plan. In other words, the planner should not schedule an action that causes codice_3 to become dirty. As this example shows, a preference is evaluated with regard to all states of a plan (if semantically required).\n\nIn addition to codice_5, other constructs based on linear temporal logic are also supported, such as codice_6 (at least once during the plan), codice_7 (to be planned after a particular state) and codice_8 (the preference holds during at most one sequence of states in the plan).\n\nIn addition to determining whether a preference is satisfied, we also need to compute the quality of a plan based on how many preferences are satisfied. For this purpose, PDDL 3.0 includes an expression called codice_9 which is equal to \"the number of distinct preferences with the given name that are not satisfied in the plan\". For a plan, a value can now be computed using a metric function, which is specified with codice_10:\n\nThis example metric function specifies that the calculated value of the plan should be minimized (i.e., a plan with value \"v1\" and a plan with value \"v2\" such that \"v1\" < \"v2\", the former plan is strictly preferred). The value of a plan is computed by the given function, which is expressed in Polish notation. In this case, violation of the second preference has been given a greater penalty than the first preference.\n\nIn the area of constraint satisfaction problems, flexible variants exist that deal with soft constraints in a similar way to preferences in preference-based planning.\n"}
{"id": "8432961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8432961", "title": "Radar chart", "text": "Radar chart\n\nA radar chart is a graphical method of displaying multivariate data in the form of a two-dimensional chart of three or more quantitative variables represented on axes starting from the same point. The relative position and angle of the axes is typically uninformative.\n\nThe radar chart is also known as web chart, spider chart, star chart, star plot, cobweb chart, irregular polygon, polar chart, or Kiviat diagram. It is equivalent to a parallel coordinates plot in polar coordinates.\n\nThe radar chart is a chart and/or plot that consists of a sequence of equi-angular spokes, called radii, with each spoke representing one of the variables. The data length of a spoke is proportional to the magnitude of the variable for the data point relative to the maximum magnitude of the variable across all data points. A line is drawn connecting the data values for each spoke. This gives the plot a star-like appearance and the origin of one of the popular names for this plot. The star plot can be used to answer the following questions:\n\nRadar charts are a useful way to display multivariate observations with an arbitrary number of variables. Each star represents a single observation. Typically, radar charts are generated in a multi-plot format with many stars on each page and each star representing one observation. The star plot was first used by Georg von Mayr in 1877. Radar charts differ from glyph plots in that all variables are used to construct the plotted star figure. There is no separation into foreground and background variables. Instead, the star-shaped figures are usually arranged in a rectangular array on the page. It is somewhat easier to see patterns in the data if the observations are arranged in some non-arbitrary order (if the variables are assigned to the rays of the star in some meaningful order).\n\nOne application of radar charts is the control of quality improvement to display the performance metrics of any ongoing program.\n\nThey are also used in sports to chart players' strengths and weaknesses, where they are usually called spider charts.\n\nRadar charts are primarily suited for strikingly showing \"outliers\" and \"commonality\", or when one chart is greater in every variable than another, and primarily used for ordinal measurements – where each variable corresponds to \"better\" in some respect, and all variables on the same scale.\n\nConversely, radar charts have been criticized as poorly suited for making trade-off decisions – when one chart is greater than another on some variables, but less on others.\n\nFurther, it is hard to visually compare lengths of different spokes, because radial distances are hard to judge, though concentric circles help as grid lines. Instead, one may use a simple line graph, particularly for time series.\n\nRadar charts impose several structures on data, which are often artificial:\nFor example, the alternating data 9, 1, 9, 1, 9, 1 yields a spiking radar chart (which goes in and out), while reordering the data as 9, 9, 9, 1, 1, 1 instead yields two distinct wedges (sectors).\n\nIn some cases there is a natural structure, and radar charts can be well-suited. For example, for diagrams of data that vary over a 24-hour cycle, the hourly data is naturally related to its neighbor, and has a cyclic structure, so it can naturally be displayed as a radar chart.\n\nOne set of guidelines on the use of radar charts (or rather the closely related \"polar area graph\") is:\n\nRadar charts are helpful for small-to-moderate-sized multivariate data sets. Their primary weakness is that their effectiveness is limited to data sets with less than a few hundred points. After that, they tend to be overwhelming.\n\nThe chart on the right contains the star plots of 15 cars. The variable list for the sample star plot is:\n\n\nWe can look at these plots individually or we can use them to identify clusters of cars with similar features. For example, we can look at the star plot of the Cadillac Seville (the last one on the image) and see that it is one of the most expensive cars, gets below average (but not among the worst) gas mileage, has an average repair record, and has average-to-above-average roominess and size. We can then compare the Cadillac models (the last three plots) with the AMC models (the first three plots). This comparison shows distinct patterns. The AMC models tend to be inexpensive, have below average gas mileage, and are small in both height and weight and in roominess. The Cadillac models are expensive, have poor gas mileage, and are large in both size and roominess.\n\nMost simply, one may use a simple line graph, particularly for time series.\n\nFor graphical qualitative comparison of 2-dimensional tabular data in several variables, a common alternative are Harvey Balls, which are used extensively by Consumer Reports. Comparison in Harvey Balls (and radar charts) may be significantly aided by ordering the variables algorithmically to add order.\n\nAn excellent way for visualising structures within multivariate data is offered by principal component analysis (PCA).\n\nAnother alternative is to use small, inline bar charts, which may be compared to sparklines.\n\nAlthough radar and polar charts are often described as the same chart types, some sources make a difference between them and even consider the radar chart to be a polar chart's variation that does not display data in terms of polar coordinate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36241461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36241461", "title": "Resistance (creativity)", "text": "Resistance (creativity)\n\nResistance is a mythical concept created by American novelist Steven Pressfield that illustrates the universal force that he claims acts against human creativity. It was first described in his non-fiction book \"The War of Art\" and elaborated in the follow-up books \"Do The Work\" and \"Turning Pro\", and in other essays. It is also a recurring theme in some of his fiction novels such as \"The Legend of Bagger Vance\" and \"The Virtues of War\".\n\nResistance is described in a mythical fashion as a universal force that has one sole mission: to keep things as they are. Pressfield claims that Resistance does not have a personal vendetta against anyone, rather it is simply trying to accomplish its only mission. It is the force that will stop an individual's creative activity through any means necessary, whether it be rationalizing, inspiring fear and anxiety, emphasizing other distractions that require attention, raising the voice of an inner critic, and much more. It will use any tool to stop creation flowing from an individual, no matter what field the creation is in.\n\nPressfield goes on to claim that Resistance is the most dangerous element to one's life and dreams since its sole mission is to sabotage aspirations. He explains steps that human beings can take to overcome this force and keep it subdued so that they can create to their fullest potential, although Resistance is never fully gone.\n\nPressfield's concept of Resistance has been cited by authors such as Seth Godin, David Kadavy, David M. Kelley and Tom Kelley, Eric Liu and the Lincoln Center Institute, Robert Kiyosaki and Sharon Lechter, and Gina Trapani.\n\nPsychologist Frederick Heide has cited Pressfield's book \"The War of Art\" and questioned whether \"fighting\" Resistance is always a helpful metaphor; Heide suggested that such agonistic metaphors could end up \"ironically perpetuating the resistance it predicts.\" Nevertheless, Heide noted, such an agonistic approach to resistance remains widespread in psychotherapeutic thinking. Heide cites a scholarly article that points to some alternative nonagonistic strategies for working with resistance in relational psychoanalytic psychotherapy, personal construct therapy, narrative therapy, motivational interviewing, process-experiential therapy, and coherence therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4802175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4802175", "title": "SS Politician", "text": "SS Politician\n\nSS \"Politician\" was an 8000-ton cargo ship owned by T & J Harrison of Liverpool. It left Liverpool on 3 February 1941, bound for Kingston, Jamaica and New Orleans with a cargo including 28,000 cases of malt whisky. The ship sank off the north coast of Eriskay in the Outer Hebrides, off the west coast of Scotland, and much of the wreck's cargo was salvaged by the island's inhabitants. The story of the wreck and looting was the basis for the book and film \"Whisky Galore!\".\n\nThe ship was called \"Politician\" only after 1935, when she was purchased by T & J Harrison from Furness, Withy and Co., who had called her \"London Merchant\".\n\nIn the same transaction, the vessels \"Royal Prince\", \"Imperial Prince\" and \"British Prince\" became \"Collegian\", \"Craftsman\" and \"Statesman\" respectively. All four turbine-engined sister ships were built in 1922-3 to have a length of and beam , gross and achieve . Built for the Furness London-New York route, Harrisons employed them to South Africa in peacetime.\n\nHarrisons had previously owned another \"Politician\", built by Swan Hunter in 1899, which was bought by Christian Salvesen in 1922, renamed \"Coronda\" and used from 1940-5 as a store ship on the Tyne.\n\nOn 5 February 1941, during gale force winds, she ran aground off the Island of Eriskay in the Outer Hebrides and later broke in two near the islet of Calvay. The crew were all unharmed and were looked after by the locals for a while.\n\nWhen the locals learned from the crew of the \"Politician\" what the ship was carrying, a series of illegal, and later well-organised salvage operations took place at night, before the customs and excise officials arrived. The island's supplies of whisky had dried up due to war-time rationing, so the islanders periodically helped themselves to some of the 28,000 cases (264,000 bottles) of Scotch whisky before winter weather broke up the ship. The men wore women's dresses on their \"fishing trips\", to keep their own clothes from being covered in incriminating oil from the ship's holds. Boats came from as far away as Lewis as news of the whisky spread across the Hebrides. No islander regarded it as stealing; for them the rules of salvage meant that once the bounty was in the sea, it was theirs to rescue.\n\nThis was not the view of the local customs officer. Charles McColl was incensed at what he saw as outright thievery going on. None of the whisky had paid a penny of duty, and he railed against this loss to the public purse. McColl whipped up a furore and made the police act. Villages were raided and crofts turned upside down. Bottles were hidden, secreted, or simply drunk in order to hide the evidence.\n\nMcColl and the police caught plenty of locals red-handed, and they were sent to trial. On 26 April at Lochmaddy Sheriff Court, a group of men from Barra pleaded guilty to theft and were charged between three and five pounds. McColl was beside himself at the leniency of the sentence, but the police (being largely locals themselves) were tired of harassing the locals who had not, in their minds, done such a bad thing.\n\nBut McColl continued on his crusade, and more men did appear in court, some of whom were sentenced to up to six weeks imprisonment in Inverness and Peterhead.\n\nAt sea, salvage attempts did not go well, and it was eventually decided to let \"Politician\" remain where she was. McColl, who had already estimated that the islanders had purloined 24,000 bottles of whisky, ensured that there would be no more temptation. He applied for, and was granted, permission to explode her hull.\n\nThe islanders watched this extraordinary action, their emotions summed up by Angus John Campbell, who commented, \"Dynamiting whisky. You wouldn't think there'd be men in the world so crazy as that!\"\n\nAt the time, the Crown remained very unforthcoming about the incident, the cargo and the salvage. The majority of its hold was taken up by the whisky, but there was also an assortment of other cargo ranging from baths, plumbing fittings, pianos, art silks, motor parts, bedding, furniture, food and banknotes for Jamaica.\n\nPublic Record Office files released in January 2001 show that \"Politician\" was also carrying nearly 290,000 ten-shilling notes (145,000 pounds), which would be worth the equivalent of several million pounds at current exchange rates. (To give an idea of how much that was worth, a corporal on full pay in the British Army received 35 shillings a week). The British government hoped that they would not get into circulation, but they started turning up at banks all around the world. Some sources suggest that these supplies were being sent to the colonies in case there was need of evacuation in the war.\n\nAs soon as the weather allowed, Eriskay was besieged with customs officials, insurance agents and legitimate salvage companies. It is reported that the custom officials were not well received and one agent was refused accommodation by most of the townsfolk.\n\nIn April 1941 Captain E Lauriston, who was in charge of the operation, claimed that the banknotes had turned up in Benbecula, north of the wreck. The salvage company stated:\n\nIt is reported that some of the children on the island have been playing with them and the locals, most of whom are known to be incriminated in the looting, are too wily to give anything away.\n\nIn a memorandum, the Crown Agents noted:\nThe local police service is in no doubt on a very, very small scale but the nature of the place and its surroundings should tend to reduce the chances of serious loss through the notes being presented and paid.\n\nSuspicions only began to rise when an empty cash case was found abandoned in the hold of the ship. By June, the banknotes from \"Politician\" were turning up in branches as far away as Liverpool. By mid July, a hundred or so had been tendered in Jamaica and almost two hundred in Britain.\n\nBy 1958 the Crown Agents reported that 211,267 notes had been recovered by the salvage company and the police and had been destroyed. A further 2,329 had been presented in banks in England, Scotland, Ireland, Switzerland, Malta, Canada, the US, and Jamaica. Only 1,509 were thought to have been presented in good faith. That still leaves 76,404 banknotes which have never been accounted for. Their fate remains a mystery.\n\nThe wreck of the \"Politician\" still lies off the coast of Eriskay, although it is below water line now as the winter gales destroyed the deck and cabins. In 1988 the island got its own legitimate pub, named The Politician ().\n\nThe story of the shipwreck inspired the Compton Mackenzie's 1947 novel \"Whisky Galore\" which was made into an Ealing Comedy film in 1949.\n\nA \"Poem of the S.S \"Politician\"\" is attributed to Angus Mcintyre, Tobermory. \n\nOi Polloi wrote a song about this ship on their album \"Ar Ceòl Ar Cànan Ar-A-Mach\".\n\nTwo books have been written detailing the history:\n\nIn 1987 Donald MacPhee, a local South Uist man, found eight bottles of whisky in the wreck; he sold them at Christies' auction for £4,000.\n\nIn October 1989 a salvage company, SS Politician plc, was founded by Churchill Baron Financial Services of Glasgow, with Jeremy Brough as company chairman.\nAbout £400,000 was invested by more than 500 people, but moving hundreds of tons of sand and steel plates only uncovered 24 more bottles, thereby creating a notional rate of return of £16,667/bottle. Some of the whisky was blended and bottled by SS Politician plc.\n\nIn 2013 two of the original eight bottles of whisky salvaged in 1987 by Donald MacPhee, sold for £12,050 after an online auction. Scotch Whisky Auctions, which sold the bottles, said they had gone to a buyer in the UK after worldwide interest.\n"}
{"id": "50638402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50638402", "title": "Sam Heydt", "text": "Sam Heydt\n\nSamantha \"Sam\" Heydt (born April 20, 1986) is an American social practice and recycled media artist.\n\nHeydt was born and raised in New York City by the artist William Heydt.\n\nAfter attending La Sorbonne, Cooper Union, University of Amsterdam, and University of Buenos Aires, ultimately earning a Bachelor of Arts in Communications, as well as a degree in Photography from Parsons New School for Design graduating summa cum laude.\n\nIn 2012, Heydt launched Jane Street Studio, a photo-studio in the Meatpacking district of Manhattan. The company has since expanded its focus from photography to design consultation and video work.\n\nHeydt has undertaken non-profit work for developing countries, including the 2014 production, \"Bulbul: Song of the Nightingale\", a feature-length documentary that sheds light on the longstanding tradition of child prostitution in the Banchara tribe of Madhya Pradesh, India.\n\nHeydt has lived and worked in Paris, Venice, Amsterdam, Athens, Sydney, Udaipur and currently resides in Vienna. With a background as a political activist and environmentalist, Heydt's work continuously examines different phenomenologies of our hyper-mediated society wherein \"tabloids become history\". Her interest lies in semiology's role in the mutability of history, disillusionment of the social psyche and exploitation of a world increasingly reduced to a bottom line.\n\nHeydt's work is exhibited internationally and sits in the permanent collection of a number of notable museums, including the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23463707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23463707", "title": "Sorrow (emotion)", "text": "Sorrow (emotion)\n\nSorrow is an emotion, feeling, or sentiment. Sorrow \"is more 'intense' than sadness... it implies a long-term state\". At the same time \"sorrow — but not unhappiness — suggests a degree of resignation... which lends sorrow its peculiar air of dignity\".\n\nMoreover, \"in terms of attitude, sorrow can be said to be half way between \"sadness\" (accepting) and \"distress\" (not accepting)\".\n\nRomanticism saw a cult of sorrow develop, reaching back to \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\" of 1774, and extending through the nineteenth century with contributions like Tennyson's \"In Memoriam\" — \"O Sorrow, wilt thou live with me/No casual mistress, but a wife\" — up to W. B. Yeats in 1889, still \"of his high comrade Sorrow dreaming\". While it may be that \"the Romantic hero's cult of sorrow is largely a matter of pretence\", as Jane Austen pointed out satirically through Marianne Dashwood, \"brooding over her sorrows... this excess of suffering\" may nevertheless have serious consequences.\n\nPartly in reaction, the 20th century has by contrast been pervaded by the belief that \"\"acting\" sorrowful can actually make me sorrowful, as William James long ago observed\". Certainly \"in the modern Anglo-emotional culture, characterized by the 'dampening of the emotions' in general... sorrow has largely given way to the milder, less painful, and more transient sadness\". A latter-day Werther is likely to be greeted by the call to '\"Come off it, Gordon. We all know there is no sorrow like unto your sorrow\"'; while any conventional 'valeoftearishness and deathwhereisthystingishness' would be met by the participants 'looking behind the sombre backs of one another's cards and discovering their colored faces'. Perhaps only the occasional subculture like the Jungian would still seek to 'call up from the busy adult man the sorrow of animal life, the grief of all nature, \"the tears of things\"'.\n\nLate modernity has (if anything) only intensified the shift: 'the postmodern is closer to the human comedy than to the abyssal discontent...the abyss of sorrow'.\n\n'Not feeling sorrow invites fear into our lives. The longer we put off feeling sorrow, the greater our fear of it becomes. Postponing the expression of the feeling causes its energy to grow'. At the same time, it would seem that 'grief in general is a \"taming\" of the primitive violent discharge affect, characterized by fear and self-destruction, to be seen in mourning'.\n\nJulia Kristeva suggests that 'taming sorrow, not fleeing sadness at once but allowing it to settle for a while...is what one of the temporary and yet indispensable phases of analysis might be'.\n\nSadness is one of four interconnected \"sentiments\" in the system of Alexander Faulkner Shand, the others being fear, anger, and joy. In this system, when an impulsive tendency towards some important object is frustrated, the resultant sentiment is sorrow.\n\nIn Shand's view, the emotion of sorrow, which he classifies as a primary emotion, has two \"impulses\": to cling to the object of sorrow, and to repair the injuries done to that object that caused the emotion in the first place. Thus the primary emotion of sorrow is the basis for the emotion of pity, which Shand describes as a fusion of sorrow and joy: sorrow at the injury done to the object of pity, and joy as an \"element of sweetness\" tinging that sorrow.\n\nWilliam McDougall disagreed with Shand's view, observing that Shand himself recognized that sorrow was itself derived from simpler elements. To support this argument, he observes that grief, at a loss, is a form of sorrow where there is no impulse to repair injury, and that therefore there are identifiable subcomponents of sorrow. He also observes that although there is an element of emotional pain in sorrow, there is no such element in pity, thus pity is not a compound made from sorrow as a simpler component.\n"}
{"id": "4958151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4958151", "title": "Sparśa", "text": "Sparśa\n\nSparsha (literally name; of Parbat Chimariya :;\"Parbat Sparsha\")\nSparśa (Sanskrit; Pali: \"phassa\") is a Sanskrit/Indian term that is translated as \"contact\", \"touching\", \"sensation\", \"sense impression\", etc. It is defined as the coming together of three factors: the sense organ, the sense object, and sense consciousness (vijnana). For example, contact (\"sparsha\") is said to occur at the coming together of the eye organ, a visual object, and the visual sense consciousness.\n\nSparśa is identified within the Buddhist teachings as:\n\nThe Atthasālinī (Expositor, Part IV, Chapter I, 108) states:\n\nNina van Gorkom explains:\n\nNina van Gorkom also explains:\n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states:\n\nHerbert Guenther explains:\n\nThe Theravada and Mahayana traditions both identify six \"classes\" of contact:\n\nFor example, when the \"ear sense\" and a \"sound object\" are present, the associated \"auditory consciousness\" (Pali: viññāṇa) arises. The arising of these three elements (dhātu) – ear-sense, sound and auditory consciousness – lead to \"contact\" (phassa).\n\nSparśa is the sixth of the Twelve Nidānas. It is conditioned by the presence of the \"six sense-openings\" (\"\"), and in turn is a condition for the arising of physical \"sensations\" (\"vedanā\").\n\nDan Lusthaus explains:\n\nJeffrey Hopkins explains:\n\nAlexander Berzin provides an explanation of the sixth link in the context of the development of the fetus; he states:\n\nIn terms of the Five Aggregates, sparśa is the \"implicit\" basis by which Form (\"rūpa\") and Consciousness (\"viññāna\") lead to the mental factors of Feeling (\"vedanā\"), Perception (\"sañña\") and Formations (\"sankhāra\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39033720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39033720", "title": "Stochastic cellular automaton", "text": "Stochastic cellular automaton\n\nStochastic cellular automata or 'probabilistic cellular automata' (PCA) or 'random cellular automata' or locally interacting Markov chains are an important extension of cellular automaton. Cellular automata are a discrete-time dynamical system of interacting entities, whose state is discrete.\n\nThe state of the collection of entities is updated at each discrete time according to some simple homogeneous rule. All entities' states are updated in parallel or synchronously. Stochastic Cellular Automata are CA whose updating rule is a stochastic one, which means the new entities' states are chosen according to some probability distributions. It is a discrete-time random dynamical system. From the spatial interaction between the entities, despite the simplicity of the updating rules, complex behaviour may emerge like self-organization. As mathematical object, it may be considered in the framework of stochastic processes as an interacting particle system in discrete-time.\nSee \nfor a more detailed introduction.\n\nAs discrete-time Markov process, PCA are defined on a product space formula_1 (cartesian product) where formula_2\nis a finite or infinite graph, like formula_3 and where formula_4 is a finite space, like for instance\nformula_5 or formula_6. The transition probability has a product form\nformula_7 where \nformula_8 and formula_9 is a probability distribution on formula_10.\nIn general some locality is required formula_11 where \nformula_12 with formula_13 a finite neighbourhood of k. See for a more detailed introduction following the probability theory's point of view.\n\nThere is a version of the majority cellular automaton with probabilistic updating rules. See the Toom's rule.\n\nPCA may be used to simulate the Ising model of ferromagnetism in statistical mechanics.\nSome categories of models were studied from a statistical mechanics point of view.\n\nThere is a strong connection\nbetween probabilistic cellular automata and the cellular Potts model in particular when it is implemented in parallel.\n\nThe Galves-Locherbach model is an example of a generalized PCA with a non Markovian aspect.\n\n"}
{"id": "33214426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33214426", "title": "Stuart Pivar", "text": "Stuart Pivar\n\nStuart Pivar (born 1930) is a chemist, art collector and author from Brooklyn, New York.\n\nPivar earned a B.Sc in chemistry at Hofstra University. An inventor, he made a large fortune in plastics, founding Chem-Tainer industries in 1959. The business specialised in bulk-storage plastic containers. While remaining active in the plastics industry, he became an independently wealthy investor and buyer on the art scene. Pivar soon met Andy Warhol, becoming one of his closest longtime friends. With Warhol he would go on regular shopping trips to buy \"masterpieces\", which could be objects bought anywhere, from a high-end auction house to a fleamarket. After the artist's death, Pivar recalled that \"Andy Warhol loved to buy art. We used to go shopping together for it for a few hours practically every day in the past couple of years.\"\nPivar was a collector of 19th-century academic art at a time when it was unfashionable. A scholar of the work of the sculptor Antoine-Louis Barye, he wrote \"The Barye Bronzes: A Catalogue Raisonne\" in 1974, a collation of critical commentary on all the sculptor's known works.\n\nPivar wished to reintroduce traditional skills to the teaching of art, including human and animal anatomy. With Warhol, he helped to found the New York Academy of Art in 1979, becoming one of its board members. The academy opposed abstract art and promoted traditional skills. According to Eliot Goldfinger, Pivar \"strongly supported the acquisition of an anatomical collection of comparative skeletons, related artwork, anatomical models and charts, and the use of dissection as part of the curriculum.\" He donated over $1.2 million to the Academy during his involvement with it.\n\nHe resigned from the Academy in 1994, complaining that he had been \"lied to and outmaneuvered\" by other senior figures at the institution. A report placed most of the blame on his \"disruptive, angry and abusive\" behavior for problems at the institution. Pivar attempted to sue the Academy for $50 million, claiming that he had been caused \"emotional and mental distress\" and that he had been ostracised for pointing out falsification of financial records and employment of illegal immigrants. The academy's spokesman said that the lawsuit was frivolous, and pointed to a previous lawsuit filed by Pivar, which had been thrown out, stating he expected the new one to suffer the same fate.\n\nBeginning with his book \"Lifecode\" in 2004 Pivar has published novel claims about the evolution of species. He asserts that the body form of species are encoded not in DNA but in the patterned structure of a primordial germ plasm. However, critics have stated that Pivar's proposed developmental sequences bear no resemblance to anything actually observed during embryological development. Massimo Pigliucci says that Pivar's ideas constitute pseudoscience. On his blog \"Pharyngula\", developmental biologist PZ Myers reviewed \"Lifecode\" and concluded that it was \"a description of the development and evolution of balloon animals\". In 2007 Pivar attempted to sue \"Seed Media\", whose ScienceBlogs hosted \"Pharyngula\", for describing him as \"classic crackpot\", but the case was withdrawn after ten days. \nOn July 5, 2016 a scientific paper titled \"The Origin of the Vertebrate Body Plan in the Geometric Patterns in the Embryonic Blastula\" was published in the peer-reviewed journal \"Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology\" identifying Stuart Pivar as the principal investigator.\n"}
{"id": "615724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615724", "title": "Subjectivity", "text": "Subjectivity\n\nSubjectivity is a central philosophical concept, related to consciousness, agency, personhood, reality, and truth, which has been variously defined by sources. Three common definitions include that subjectivity is the quality or condition of:\nThese various definitions of subjectivity are sometimes joined together in philosophy. The term is most commonly used as an explanation for that which influences, informs, and biases people's judgments about truth or reality; it is the collection of the perceptions, experiences, expectations, personal or cultural understanding, and beliefs specific to a person. \n\nSubjectivity is contrasted to the philosophy of objectivity, which is described as a view of truth or reality that is free of any individual's biases, interpretations, feelings, and imaginings. \n\nThe rise of the notion of subjectivity has its philosophical roots in the thinking of Descartes and Kant, and its articulation throughout the modern era has depended on the understanding of what constitutes an individual. There have been various interpretations of such concepts as the self and the soul, and the identity or self-consciousness which lies at the root of the notion of subjectivity.\n\nSubjectivity is, for instance, frequently the implicit topic of existentialism, Sartre as one of its main proponents emphasizing subjectivity in his phenomenology. Unlike his colleague Merleau-Ponty, Sartre believed that, even within the material force of human society, the ego was an essentially transcendent being- posited, for instance, in his opus \"Being and Nothingness\" through his arguments about the 'being-for-others' and the 'for-itself' (i.e., an objective and subjective human being).\n\nSubjectivity is an inherently social mode that comes about through innumerable interactions within society. As much as subjectivity is a process of individuation, it is equally a process of socialization, the individual never being isolated in a self-contained environment, but endlessly engaging in interaction with the surrounding world.\nCulture is a living totality of the subjectivity of any given society constantly undergoing transformation. Subjectivity is both shaped by it and shapes it in turn, but also by other things like the economy, political institutions, communities, as well as the natural world.\n\nThough the boundaries of societies and their cultures are indefinable and arbitrary, the subjectivity inherent in each one is palatable and can be recognized as distinct from others. Subjectivity is in part a particular experience or organization of reality, which includes how one views and interacts with humanity, objects, consciousness, and nature, so the difference between different cultures brings about an alternate experience of existence that forms life in a different manner. A common effect on an individual of this disjunction between subjectivities is culture shock, where the subjectivity of the other culture is considered alien and possibly incomprehensible or even hostile.\n\nPolitical subjectivity is an emerging concept in social sciences and humanities. Political subjectivity is a reference to the deep embeddedness of subjectivity in the socially intertwined systems of power and meaning. \"Politicality,\" writes Sadeq Rahimi in \"Meaning, Madness and Political Subjectivity\", \"is not an added aspect of the subject, but indeed the mode of being of the subject, that is, precisely what the subject \"is\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28738", "title": "Synchronization", "text": "Synchronization\n\nSynchronization is the coordination of events to operate a system in unison. The conductor of an orchestra keeps the orchestra synchronized or \"in time\". Systems that operate with all parts in synchrony are said to be synchronous or \"in sync\"—and those that are not are \"asynchronous\".\n\nToday, time synchronization can occur between systems around the world through satellite navigation signals.\n\nTime-keeping and synchronization of clocks has been a critical problem in long-distance ocean navigation. Before radio navigation and satellite-based navigation, navigators required accurate time in conjunction with astronomical observations to determine how far east or west their vessel traveled. The invention of an accurate marine chronometer revolutionized marine navigation. By the end of the 19th century, important ports provided time signals in the form of a signal gun, flag, or dropping time ball so that mariners could check their chronometers for error.\n\nSynchronization was important in the operation of 19th century railways, these being the first major means of transport fast enough for differences in local time between adjacent towns to be noticeable. Each line handled the problem by synchronizing all its stations to headquarters as a standard railroad time. In some territories, sharing of single railroad tracks was controlled by the timetable. The need for strict timekeeping led the companies to settle on one standard, and civil authorities eventually abandoned local mean solar time in favor of that standard.\n\nIn electrical engineering terms, for digital logic and data transfer, a synchronous circuit requires a clock signal. However, the use of the word \"clock\" in this sense is different from the typical sense of a clock as a device that keeps track of time-of-day; the clock signal simply signals the start and/or end of some time period, often very minute (measured in microseconds or nanoseconds), that has an arbitrary relationship to sidereal, solar, or lunar time, or to any other system of measurement of the passage of minutes, hours, and days.\n\nIn a different sense, electronic systems are sometimes synchronized to make events at points far apart appear simultaneous or near-simultaneous from a certain perspective. (Albert Einstein proved in 1905 in his first relativity paper that there actually are no such things as absolutely simultaneous events.) Timekeeping technologies such as the GPS satellites and Network Time Protocol (NTP) provide real-time access to a close approximation to the UTC timescale and are used for many terrestrial synchronization applications of this kind.\n\nSynchronization is an important concept in the following fields:\n\nSynchronization of multiple interacting dynamical systems can occur when the systems are autonomous oscillators. For instance, integrate-and-fire oscillators with either two-way (symmetric) or one-way coupling can synchronize when the strength of the coupling (in frequency units) is greater than the differences among the free-running natural oscillator frequencies. Poincare phase oscillators are model systems that can interact and partially synchronize within random or regular networks. In the case of global synchronization of phase oscillators, an abrupt transition from unsynchronized to full synchronization takes place when the coupling strength exceeds a critical threshold. This is known as the Kuramoto model phase transition. Synchronization is an emergent property that occurs in a broad range of dynamical systems, including neural signaling, the beating of the heart and the synchronization of fire-fly light waves.\n\nSynchronization of movement is defined as similar movements between two or more people who are temporally aligned. This is different to mimicry, as these movements occur after a short delay. Muscular bonding is the idea that moving in time evokes particular emotions. This sparked some of the first research into movement synchronization and its effects on human emotion.\n\nIn groups, synchronization of movement has been shown to increase conformity, cooperation and trust however more research on group synchronization is needed to determine its effects on the group as a whole and on individuals within a group. In dyads, groups of two people, synchronization has been demonstrated to increase affiliation, self-esteem, compassion and altruistic behaviour and increase rapport. During arguments, synchrony between the arguing pair has been noted to decrease, however it is not clear whether this is due to the change in emotion or other factors. There is evidence to show that movement synchronization requires other people to cause its beneficial effects, as the effect on affiliation does not occur when one of the dyad is synchronizing their movements to something outside the dyad. This is known as interpersonal synchrony.\n\nThere has been dispute regarding the true effect of synchrony in these studies. Research in this area detailing the positive effects of synchrony, have attributed this to synchrony alone; however, many of the experiments incorporate a shared intention to achieve synchrony. Indeed, the Reinforcement of Cooperation Model suggests that perception of synchrony leads to reinforcement that cooperation is occurring, which leads to the pro-social effects of synchrony. More research is required to separate the effect of intentionality from the beneficial effect of synchrony.\n\n\nSome systems may be only approximately synchronized, or plesiochronous. Some applications require that relative offsets between events be determined. For others, only the order of the event is important.\n\n"}
{"id": "5962524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5962524", "title": "Trace fossil classification", "text": "Trace fossil classification\n\nTrace fossils are classified in various ways for different purposes. Traces can be classified taxonomically (by morphology), ethologically (by behavior), and toponomically, that is, according to their relationship to the surrounding sedimentary layers. Except in the rare cases where the original maker of a trace fossil can be identified with confidence, phylogenetic classification of trace fossils is an unreasonable proposition.\n\nThe taxonomic classification of trace fossils parallels the taxonomic classification of organisms under the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. In trace fossil nomenclature a Latin binomial name is used, just as in animal and plant taxonomy, with a genus and specific epithet. However, the binomial names are not linked to an organism, but rather just a trace fossil. This is due to the rarity of association between a trace fossil and a specific organism or group of organisms. Trace fossils are therefore included in an \"ichnotaxon\" separate from Linnaean taxonomy. When referring to trace fossils, the terms \"ichnogenus\" and \"ichnospecies\" parallel genus and species respectively.\n\nThe most promising cases of phylogenetic classification are those in which similar trace fossils show details complex enough to deduce the makers, such as bryozoan borings, large trilobite trace fossils such as \"Cruziana\", and vertebrate footprints. However, most trace fossils lack sufficiently complex details to allow such classification.\n\nAdolf Seilacher was the first to propose a broadly accepted ethological basis for trace fossil classification. He recognized that most trace fossils are created by animals in one of five main behavioural activities, and named them accordingly:\n\n\nSince the inception of behavioural categorization, several other ethological classes have been suggested and accepted, as follows:\n\n\nOver the years several other behavioural groups have been proposed, but in general they have been quickly discarded by the ichnological community. Some of the failed proposals are listed below, with a brief description.\n\n\nFixichnia is perhaps the group with the most weight as a candidate for the next accepted ethological class, being not fully described by any of the eleven currently accepted categories. There is also potential for the three plant traces (cecidoichnia, corrosichnia and sphenoichnia) to gain recognition in coming years, with little attention having been paid to them since their proposal.\n\nAnother way to classify trace fossils is to look at their relation to the sediment of origin. Martinsson has provided the most widely accepted of such systems, identifying four distinct classes for traces to be separated in this regard:\n\n\nOther classifications have been proposed, but none stray far from the above.\n\nEarly paleontologists originally classified many burrow fossils as the remains of marine algae, as is apparent in ichnogenera named with the \"-phycus\" suffix. Alfred Gabriel Nathorst and Joseph F. James both controversially challenged this incorrect classification, suggesting the reinterpretation of many \"algae\" as marine invertebrate trace fossils.\n\nSeveral attempts to classify trace fossils have been made throughout the history of paleontology. In 1844, Edward Hitchcock proposed two orders: \"Apodichnites\", including footless trails, and \"Polypodichnites\", including trails of organisms with more than four feet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2919686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2919686", "title": "Unenumerated rights", "text": "Unenumerated rights\n\nUnenumerated rights are legal rights inferred from other legal rights that are officiated in a retrievable form codified by law institutions, such as in written constitutions, but are not themselves expressly coded or \"enumerated\" among the explicit writ of the law. Alternative terminology sometimes used are: implied rights, natural rights, background rights, and fundamental rights.\n\nUnenumerated rights will be actual rights insofar as they necessitate the systematization of positively enumerated rights anywhere laws would become logically incoherent, or could not be adhered to or maintained in the exclusion of those unenumerated items as rights. Examples of this include federal systems where constituent member constitutions have to be interpreted in relation to their membership in the federal whole, adjudicative of whether authority is rightfully devolved or more rightly federative.\n\nThis term alternatively, is used loosely to mean any perceived rights, often considered peremptory or intuitively fiat (such as rights innate to each individual or inherent to mankind), that are without expression or instance of articulation.\n\nImplied rights are the political and civil freedoms that necessarily underlie the actual words of the constitution but are not themselves expressly stated directly in the constitution. Since the 1990s the High Court has discovered rights which are said to be implied by the very structure and textual form of the Constitution. Chief amongst these is an implied right to freedom of communication on political matters, which was first recognised in \"Nationwide News Pty Ltd v Wills\". In addition, some protections of civil liberties have been the result of the High Court's zealous attempts to safeguard the independence of, and confidence in, the Federal judiciary. A good example of this can be seen in \"Kable v Director of Public Prosecutions (NSW)\", in which the High Court struck down a criminal law passed by the New South Wales Parliament that was directed at a single named individual in a similar manner to a Bill of attainder. The High Court also inferred a limited right to vote from the text of the Constitution in \"Roach v Electoral Commissioner\", invalidating legislation that prevented all prisoners from voting.\n\nArticle 40.3 of the Irish constitution refers to and accounts for the recognition of unenumerated rights. The Supreme Court is often the main source of such rights, such as the right to bodily integrity, the right to marry and the right to earn a living, among others.\n\nArticle 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of China guarantees unenumerated freedoms and rights of the people that are not detrimental to social order or public welfare, now in effect in Taiwan.\n\nIn the United States, the Ninth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects against federal infringement of unenumerated rights. The text reads:The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. The Supreme Court of the United States has also interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution to protect against state infringement of certain unenumerated rights including, among others, the right to send one's children to private school and the right to marital privacy.\n\nThe Supreme Court has found that unenumerated rights include such important rights as the right to travel, the right to vote, the right to keep personal matters private and to make important decisions about one’s health care or body.\n\n"}
{"id": "424022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424022", "title": "Windrow composting", "text": "Windrow composting\n\nIn agriculture, windrow composting is the production of compost by piling organic matter or biodegradable waste, such as animal manure and crop residues, in long rows (\"windrows\"). This method is suited to producing large volumes of compost. These rows are generally turned to improve porosity and oxygen content, mix in or remove moisture, and redistribute cooler and hotter portions of the pile. Windrow composting is a commonly used farm scale composting method. Composting process control parameters include the initial ratios of carbon and nitrogen rich materials, the amount of bulking agent added to assure air porosity, the pile size, moisture content, and turning frequency.\n\nThe temperature of the windrows must be measured and logged constantly to determine the optimum time to turn them for quicker compost production.\n\nCompost windrow turners were developed to produce compost on a large scale by Fletcher Sims Jr. of Canyon, Texas . They are traditionally a large machine that straddles a windrow of 4 feet (1.25 meters) or more high, by as much as 12 feet (3.5 meters) across. Although smaller machines exist for small windrows, most operations use large machines for volume production. Turners drive through the windrow at a slow rate of forward movement. They have a steel drum with paddles that are rapidly turning. As the turner moves through the windrow, fresh air (oxygen) is injected into the compost by the drum/paddle assembly, and waste gases produced by bacterial decomposition are vented. The oxygen feeds the aerobic bacteria and thus speeds the composting process.\n\nTo properly use a compost windrow turner, it is ideal to compost on a hard surfaced pad. Heavy-duty compost windrow turners allow the user to obtain optimum results with the aerobic hot composting process. By using four wheel drive or tracks the windrow turner is capable of turning compost in windrows located in remote locations. With a self-trailering option this allows the compost windrow turner to convert itself into a trailer to be pulled by a semi-truck tractor. These two options combined allow the compost windrow turner to be easily hauled anywhere and to work compost windrows in muddy and wet locations.\n\nMolasses-based distilleries all over the world generate large amount of effluent termed as spent wash or vinasse. For each liter of alcohol produced, around 8 liters of effluent is generated. This effluent has COD of 1,50,000 PPM and BOD of 60,000 PPM and even more. This effluent needs to be treated and the only effective method for conclusive disposal is by composting.\n\nSugar factories generate pressmud / cachaza during the process and the same has about 30% fibers as carbon and has large amounts of water. This pressmud is dumped on prepared land in the form of 100 meters long windrows of 3 meters x 1.5 meters and spent wash is sprayed on the windrow while the windrow is being turned. These machines help consume spent wash of about 2.5 times of the volume of the pressmud, which means that a 100 meters of windrow accommodates about 166 MT of pressmud and uses about 415 m³ of Spent wash in 50 days.\n\nMicrobial Culture (organic solution) TRIO COM-CULT is used about 1 kg per MT of pressmud for fast de-composing of the spent wash. Hundreds of thousands of square meters of spent wash is being composted all over the world in countries like India, Colombia, Brazil, Thailand, Indonesia, South Africa etc.\n\nThe compost yard has to be prepared in such a way that the land is impervious and does not allow the liquid effluent to pass down into the earth. The compost thus generated is of excellent quality and is rich in nutrients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39903086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39903086", "title": "Working class", "text": "Working class\n\nThe working class (or labouring class) comprises the people employed for wages, especially in manual-labour occupations and industrial work. Working-class occupations (see also \"Designation of workers by collar color\") include blue-collar jobs, some white-collar jobs, and most pink-collar jobs. The working class only rely upon their earnings from wage labour, thereby, the category includes most of the working population of industrialized economies, of the urban areas (cities, towns, villages) of non-industrialized economies, and of the rural workforce.\n\nIn Marxist theory and socialist literature, the term \"working class\" is often used interchangeably with the term \"proletariat\" and includes all workers who expend both physical and mental labour (salaried knowledge workers and white-collar workers) to produce economic value for the owners of the means of production (the bourgeoisie in Marxist literature).\n\nAs with many terms describing social class, \"working class\" is defined and used in many different ways. The most general definition, used by Marxists and many socialists, is that the working class includes all those who have nothing to sell but their labour power and skills. In that sense it includes both white and blue-collar workers, manual and mental workers of all types, excluding only individuals who derive their income from business ownership and the labour of others.\n\nWhen used non-academically in the United States, however, it often refers to a section of society dependent on physical labour, especially when compensated with an hourly wage. For certain types of science, as well as less scientific or journalistic political analysis, for example, the working class is loosely defined as those without college degrees. Working-class occupations are then categorized into four groups: unskilled labourers, artisans, outworkers, and factory workers.\n\nA common alternative, is to define class by income levels. When this approach is used, the working class can be contrasted with a so-called \"middle class \"on the basis of differential terms of access to economic resources, education, cultural interests, and other goods and services. The cut-off between working class and middle class here might mean the line where a population has discretionary income, rather than simply sustenance (for example, on fashion versus merely nutrition and shelter).\n\nSome researchers have suggested that working-class status should be defined subjectively as self-identification with the working-class group. This subjective approach allows people, rather than researchers, to define their own social class.\n\nIn feudal Europe, the working class as such did not exist in large numbers. Instead, most people were part of the labouring class, a group made up of different professions, trades and occupations. A lawyer, craftsman and peasant were all considered to be part of the same social unit, a third estate of people who were neither aristocrats nor church officials. Similar hierarchies existed outside Europe in other pre-industrial societies. The social position of these labouring classes was viewed as ordained by natural law and common religious belief. This social position was contested, particularly by peasants, for example during the German Peasants' War.\n\nIn the late 18th century, under the influence of the Enlightenment, European society was in a state of change, and this change could not be reconciled with the idea of a changeless god-created social order. Wealthy members of these societies created ideologies which blamed many of the problems of working-class people on their morals and ethics (i.e. excessive consumption of alcohol, perceived laziness and inability to save money). In \"The Making of the English Working Class\", E. P. Thompson argues that the English working class was present at its own creation, and seeks to describe the transformation of pre-modern labouring classes into a modern, politically self-conscious, working class.\n\nStarting around 1917, a number of countries became ruled ostensibly in the interests of the working class (see Soviet working class). Some historians have noted that a key change in these Soviet-style societies has been a massive a new type of proletarianization, often effected by the administratively achieved forced displacement of peasants and rural workers. Since then, four major industrial states have turned towards semi-market-based governance (China, Laos, Vietnam, Cuba), and one state has turned inwards into an increasing cycle of poverty and brutalization (North Korea). Other states of this sort have either collapsed (such as the Soviet Union), or never achieved significant levels of industrialization or large working classes.\n\nSince 1960, large-scale proletarianization and enclosure of commons has occurred in the third world, generating new working classes. Additionally, countries such as India have been slowly undergoing social change, expanding the size of the urban working class.\n\nKarl Marx defined the working class or proletariat as individuals who sell their labour power for wages and who do not own the means of production. He argued that they were responsible for creating the wealth of a society. He asserted that the working class physically build bridges, craft furniture, grow food, and nurse children, but do not own land, or factories.\n\nA sub-section of the proletariat, the lumpenproletariat (\"rag-proletariat\"), are the extremely poor and unemployed, such as day labourers and homeless people. Marx considered them to be devoid of class consciousness.\n\nIn \"The Communist Manifesto\", Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels argued that it was the destiny of the working class to displace the capitalist system, with the dictatorship of the proletariat, abolishing the social relationships underpinning the class system and then developing into a future communist society in which \"the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all.\" Some issues in Marxist arguments about working-class membership have included:\n\nPossible responses to some of these issues are:\n\nIn general, in Marxist terms, wage labourers and those dependent on the welfare state are working class, and those who live on accumulated capital are not. This broad dichotomy defines the class struggle. Different groups and individuals may at any given time be on one side or the other. For example, retired factory workers are working-class in the popular sense; but to the extent that they live off fixed incomes, financed by stock in corporations whose earnings are profit, retired factory workers' interests, and possibly their identities and politics, are not working class. Such contradictions of interests and identity within individuals' lives and within communities can effectively undermine the ability of the working class to act in solidarity to reduce exploitation, inequality, and the role of ownership in determining people's life chances, work conditions, and political power.\n\n"}
