{"id": "21056187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056187", "title": "100 Days Campaign", "text": "100 Days Campaign\n\nThe 100 Days Campaign was set up in 2008 by Amnesty International to demonstrate President-elect Barack Obama’s commitment to human rights. Amnesty International called for certain concrete steps in Obama's first 100 days in office that would demonstrate a genuine commitment to bringing the United States into line with its international obligations.\n\nThe three main ideas behind the 100 Days campaign were as follows:\n\nThese demands are part of a checklist of actions Amnesty International has asked the new U.S. President to take during the first 100 days in office.\n\nGuitarist Tom Morello, who has been a long-time supporter of Amnesty International, teamed up with Amnesty's 100 Days Action.\n\nAs part of the 100 Days Campaign, to remind President Obama of his promise to close Guantanamo bay, Amnesty International held a series of vigils from 11 am to 1 pm, Monday through Friday, at many different venues around Washington D.C., throughout the first 100 days of President Obama's first term of presidency.\n"}
{"id": "55689292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55689292", "title": "2010 conservatism-psychoticism correlation error", "text": "2010 conservatism-psychoticism correlation error\n\nIn 2010, a paper titled \"The nature of the relationship between personality traits and political attitudes\" claimed to find a strong positive correlation between conservatism and psychoticism. This error was repeated in subsequent papers by the same authors; however, around 2015, the authors acknowledged the correlation is actually negative rather than positive, and began issuing corrections.\n\nMany studies have found significant correlations between personality traits and political attitudes. For example, conscientiousness appears to correlate with conservatism, and openness correlates with a liberal ideology. Some scholars have used these correlations to argue that differences in personality traits are a strong causal factor in determining what political attitudes people align themselves with; others have argued this is the wrong casual analysis. In this latter view, the correlation instead arises due to a third factor which causes both the statistical differences in personality traits and the statistical differences in political attitudes.\n\nIn 2010, Brad Verhulst, Peter K. Hatemi, and Nicholas G. Martin published a paper in \"Personality and Individual Differences\" arguing for the \"third factor\" explanation. In the course of their analysis, they calculated various correlations between various personality traits and various political attitudes. Among these published calculations was a correlation of +0.5 between psychoticism and conservative religious attitudes and a correlation of +0.6 between psychoticism and conservative sexual attitudes. However, these two calculations, among others, were erroneous; the actual calculated correlations should have been negative. While the actual sign of the correlation was irrelevant to the 2010 paper's primary thesis, the error created difficulties for subsequent scientists exploring other facets of the correlation, for whom the direction of the correlation was relevant.\n\nVerhulst and Hatemi made the same mistake in a 2012 \"American Journal of Political Science\" (AJPS) publication that used a different set of data. By one count, this 2012 paper would later be cited 45 times.\n\nIn 2012, Steven G. Ludeke, a Ph.D. psychology student, spotted that the direction of the claimed correlation in the 2010 and 2012 papers contradicted both prior research and common sense; a positive correlation would mean that compared to liberals, conservatives are more drug-friendly, care less about cleanliness, and disdain society’s strictures. Ludeke correctly hypothesized that the sign of the correlation was reversed. Ludeke's thesis advisor, Colin DeYoung, had met Hatemi before; DeYoung initiated correspondence with Hatemi on July 27, 2012 to report the error and to request access to the datasets. Hatemi disputed that an error occurred but initially seemed receptive to sharing the data. However, despite repeated attempts in 2012 and 2013, Ludeke and DeYoung were unable to gain access to the data of the 2010 and 2012 papers. In 2013, Hatemi and Verhulst submitted a paper to AJPS that contained the same mistaken sign-reversed correlation. Ludeke was one of the anonymous reviewers; Ludeke reiterated his criticism that the sign of the correlation was flipped. The paper was rejected by AJPS; however, in 2015, Hatemi and Verhulst published the paper in PlosOne, an open-data journal.\n\nAround 2015, Ludeke and DeYoung submitted a paper for publication to the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology (JSPS) debunking Hatemi and Verhulst's claim; Hatemi was chosen as a reviewer. According to Ludeke and DeYoung, this triggered Hatemi and Verhulst to \"race\" to submit corrections to the all the journals that published the error. The JSPS and other journals then rejected the Ludeke and DeYoung paper, possibly in part because the corrections had already been issued.\n\nFollowing the corrections, some right-wing media outlets embraced the finding that liberalism correlates with psychoticism; the New York Post wrote that \"Science says liberals, not conservatives, are psychotic\". However, as New York Magazine pointed out, \"psychoticism, in this case, doesn’t mean psychotic in the everyday sense of the word.\"\n\nIn 2016, Ludeke and DeYoung published a less critical version of their paper in \"Personality and Individual Differences\". Hatemi and Verhulst published a response, titled \"Correcting Honest Errors Versus Incorrectly Portraying Them: Responding to Ludeke and Rasmussen\", in the same journal. \"Correcting\" stated that \"longstanding published literature... already identified a positive correlation between conservatism and Psychoticism\"; however, three of the four non-book citations given by \"Correcting\" to support this claim explicitly reported a \"negative\" correlation.\n\nHatemi and Verhulst ascribed the error to the specific codebook used for the project, which inverted the codes for statements that counted towards psychoticism and the statements that counted against psychoticism in the surveys. Verhulst stated he didn't know whether the error originated from the authors or from the group that conducted the surveys, saying \"I don’t know where it happened, all I know is it happened. It’s our fault for not figuring it out before.\"\n"}
{"id": "42595185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42595185", "title": "2012 California Proposition 36", "text": "2012 California Proposition 36\n\nProposition 36, also titled A Change in the \"Three Strikes Law\" Initiative, was a California ballot measure that was passed in November 2012 to modify California’s Three Strikes Law (passed in 1994). The latter law punishes habitual offenders by establishing sentence escalation for crimes that were classified as \"strikes\", and requires a mandatory minimum sentence of 25 to life for a \"third-strike offense.\"\n\nProposition 36 adjusted the law so that, in order to be classified as a third strike, the offense must be a \"serious or violent felony\". This serious or violent clause does not apply to defendants previously convicted of rape, murder or child molestation. Additionally, the initiative added a provision in the California Penal Code that establishes a review process of sentences for people currently serving life sentences as a result of a nonviolent or non-serious third-strike offenses; it allowed courts to provide shorter sentences or release.\n\nSupporters of the proposition included Steve Cooley, the LA district attorney at the time, George Soros, and the NAACP. Opponents included Henry T. Nicholas, the author of California's Victims Bill of Rights, the California Police Chiefs’ Association, and the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation.\n\nThe proposition was passed on November 6, 2012, with 8,575,619 people (69.3%) voting Yes and 3,798,218 people (30.7%) voting No. It was passed by a majority of voters in every county.\n\nProposition 36 was predated by two major trends since the late 20th century: rapidly increasing incarceration rates and the expansion of the private prison industry. Beginning in the late 1970s, President Richard Nixon announced the \"war on drugs,\" which led to 'tough on crime' policies by a range of politicians. Changes included mandatory minimum sentencing, harsh penalties barring inmates from being granted parole or probation, and stricter punishments for drug users both in and out of the prison. Neither party wanted to appear \"soft on crime\", and criminalization of minor offenses continued, resulting in high rates of incarceration. In response to but surpassing the growing numbers of inmates, the private prison industry expanded nearly 1600% between 1990-2009.\n\nBy 2011, private prison companies were responsible for about 6% of state prisoners and 16% of federal prisoners. Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), for example, in 2011 owned and operated 66 facilities, and it earned $1.7 billion in revenue. The rate of private prison expansion far outpaced the rate of overall growth in incarceration. By 2015, the two largest prison companies derived from 45 to 50% of their revenues from federal contracts and had incentives to keep prisons full.\n\nAs a result of the continuing war on crime in the 1990s, numerous states passed what are known as Three Strikes laws. Between December 1993 and January 1996, twenty-four states passed such laws, which were designed to punish repeat felons. Under these laws, criminals convicted of a second felony must receive a sentence twice as harsh as a first-time offender. A criminal convicted of a third felony, regardless of its violence or severity, is to be sentenced to a mandatory minimum of 25 years to life imprisonment. These laws limited the judges’ ability to exercise discretion when sentencing repeat criminals and required lengthy sentences even for non-violent crimes. Poor people of color have been disproportionately affected by the high rate of incarceration for even relatively minor offenses. In 2016 the United States had 5% of the population in the world and 25% of the world's prisoners.\n\nThe first Three Strike Law was passed in Washington State, with overwhelming support from the voters. Its passage was attributed to public outrage over the murder of Diane Ballasiotes, who was kidnapped, raped, and brutally stabbed by Gene Kane Jr., an escapee from Seattle work-release. Similar outrage in California arose over the murders of Kim Reynolds and Polly Klaas, both of whom were killed by repeat felons. California also passed a three strike law.\n\nThe three-strikes laws were representative of prevailing public dissatisfaction with the states’ policies regarding repeat offenders. Studies suggest that public concern is related to fears about threat related to crime, a threat repeatedly emphasized by politicians seeking support for re-election, and a belief that courts were not dealing with it adequately. Most people have a fear of crime that does not realistically relate to their risk. Psychologists Zimring and Hawkins suggest that people are motivated to protect themselves and their communities from threats and thus support severe punishment. Also, people are motivated to punish criminals because rule-breaking behavior poses a threat to the moral cohesion of society; punishment reasserts social value and the obligation to obey social rules.\n\nSince Three Strikes has gone into effect in California, a number of studies have examined the effects of the law on sentencing patterns and crime levels. Overall, results from these studies have been mixed, with some concluding that Three Strikes has reduced crime rates, while others arguing it has had little impact if any.\n\nA 1994 study by analyst Peter Greenwood and colleagues at RAND assessed potential effects of the proposed law. Relying mostly on projected data from statistical models, the authors predicted that three strikes could result in up to a 28% reduction in serious or violent crime, but questioned whether or not the public would be willing to fully fund the bill’s estimated cost of $5.5 billion to support a much larger prison population serving lengthy sentences.\n\nA study published in 2001 by Franklin Zimring and colleagues assessed the effects over several years of implementing the law and reached a more negative conclusion about its efficacy. \nZimring examined samples of felony arrests from three major California cities between 1993 and 1995, and found that the group targeted by Three Strikes, namely people who had committed one or more serious or violent offenses, accounted for 10% of the total crime prior to the law’s enactment; they did not differ significantly from the average criminal population. In terms of the law's effects, the study found that second-strike offenders were more likely to be punished, as well as to receive a longer average prison sentence than before, while third- strike offenders were sentenced to lengthier punishments. The authors conclude that Three Strikes could not be solely responsible for the large drop in aggregated California crime rates over the 1990s. This trend began before Three Strikes was enacted and continued at roughly the same rate of reduction afterward. Zimring argues that the law had only a weak deterrent effect on crime at best.\n\nA 2002 study conducted by Joanna Shepherd claimed that both of the above studies underestimate the deterrent effect of the law because they examined only what she calls \"partial deterrence\" effects of three strikes: that is, deterring of those criminals committing a third strike. She suggests that if this was the case, the expected result would be a small general decrease in all felonies, as any felony can qualify for a third-strike offense. Using statistical regression models, Shepard found that the result was a stronger decrease in serious or violent felonies that qualify for first and second strikes; she concluded that the Three Strikes law deterred the general criminal population as well. She attributed the deterrence of nearly 400,000 crimes, the vast majority of which are burglaries, to the law in its first two years of enactment.\n\nA 2001 study by criminologists Marvell and Moody found that homicide rates increased following the passage of Three Strikes Law. The authors argued that criminals, even when committing relatively minor crimes, were more motivated after the law to murder victims, witnesses, or law enforcement personnel in order to avoid apprehension and the mandatory harsh sentences. They found that the law would increase the total number of homicides in states enforcing three strikes laws by approximately 17%.\n\nA study published in 2012 by John Sutton focused more on the law’s effects on sentencing and imprisonment. Sutton evaluated whether or not probability and severity of sentencing increased under Three Strikes, whether or not average sentencing uncertainty declined, and whether or not race played a significant role in sentencing before and after Three Strikes. He concluded that Three Strikes did increase the number of prison sentences and their average length in California. However, he also found that there is \"no evidence of systematic prosecutorial manipulation\" as a result of Three Strikes sentencing.\n\nIn terms of race, Sutton found that black defendants were more likely to receive longer sentences under Three Strikes, but did not find other race-related effects of Three Strikes. He highlights the singular nature of this finding as worthy of further study.\n\nDespite Proposition 184’s easy passage, by the early 2000s many California citizens were beginning to consider reforming the law. Some common criticisms of the law include it resulting in prison overcrowding, inconsistent application of the law across the state, increasing costs of funding the growing prison population, and disillusion with particular applications of Three Strikes Law to minor offenses.\n\nWithin the first four years of the implementation of Three Strikes Law, 40,511 people were convicted under the laws in California. The rapidly growing inmate population resulted in an additional $1 billion spent on adult corrections in four years, from approximately $3 billion to over $4 billion. According to the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, the budget for fiscal year 2011-2012 has increased to $6.4 billion. In addition, with the AB900, the ballot that was signed into law in May 2007 granting $7.4 billion for prison expansion, taxpayers will shell out an average of $315,000 per bed for the projects.\n\nIn California specifically, citizens are concerned over the billions of dollars spent by the state legislature on prison construction in the past few years, including $500 million via SB 1022 and $1.2 billion through AB 900. A number of anti-prison organizations have developed. Among them is California United for a Responsible Budget (CURB). As a broad-based coalition of more than 40 organizations, CURB seeks to \"curb\" prison spending by reducing the number of people in prison and the number of prisons in the state. The group works to provide resources and broader exposure in the field of prison divestment and to increase the outreach possibilities to the prison abolition movement.\n\nUnder the Three Strikes Laws, there were more than 7,400 second and third-strike cases filed statewide at the end of August 1994.\nHistorically, more than 90% of the defendants would plea bargain for more lenient sentence or dismissal of other charges. However, knowing the consequence of having three strikes, in 1995 plea bargaining with guilty pleas dropped to a frequency of 14% of defendants with second-strike cases and 6% of defendants with third-strike cases. As a result of the significant decrease in plea bargaining, prosecutors and public defenders face a high volume of jury trials, which are more expensive and which slow other business in the courts.\n\nInstead of an uniformity of ruling, counties throughout California evaluate the seriousness of crime differently. In 1996, San Francisco County announced that the county would no longer pursue third-strike conviction against drug cases and non-violent felonies, as it had found juries unwilling to convict in such cases given the harsh consequences. On the other hand, prosecutors in San Diego County were willing to pursue Three Strikes conviction for any felonies. San Diego has sent more three-strike defendants to prison than any other county with a comparable violent crime rate.\n\nIn 2003, Gary Ewing was sentenced 25 years to life in prison after he committed his third felony, stealing three golf clubs from a local shop in California Under California law, certain offenses known as \"wobblers\" may be classified as either misdemeanors or felonies. The court refused to exercise its discretion to reduce the conviction to a misdemeanor for Ewing, which triggered the Three Strikes Law. Ewing appealed, saying that his sentence was grossly disproportionate to the crime under the Eighth Amendment, but the US Supreme Court affirmed the court's ruling in \"Ewing v. California\". The harsh sentence and later ruling for a crime of shoplifting not only shocked many people but was also questioned by some judges. This controversial case can be seen to have led to getting Proposition 66 on the ballot.\n\nIn 2004, Proposition 66 was placed on the California ballot. Proposition 66 would limit felonies that trigger the second and third strike applications to violent or serious crimes and would increase penalties for child molesters. Supporters believed that it restored the original purpose of the Three Strikes Law to keep dangerous criminals in prison and off the streets. Proposition 66 was backed by Citizens Against Violent Crime, a California political action committee, and Sacramento businessman Jerry Keenan, whose son was serving time for manslaughter in a car accident. But, voters rejected proposition 66 with 52.7% no votes, reportedly due to fear that as many as 26,000 inmates would be released to the streets if it were passed.\n\nProponents argued that Proposition 36 would remove \"draconian\" standards of doling out punishment for third felonies that are neither serious nor violent. They claimed that the proposition presents rather modest reforms that would eliminate overly harsh sentencing of minor felonies, while keeping serious career criminals behind bars. They noted that repeat offenders would continue to serve longer sentences under Proposition 36. Supporters rejected opponents’ claims that Prop 36 would lead to a flood of career criminals into the streets. They said that fewer than 3,000 inmates statewide were eligible to petition for resentencing, and that many of these had already served long sentences, making them older and less likely to return to crime (which is committed primarily by younger people).\n\nSupporters noted the proposition could save California more than $100 million per year in prison costs and reduce overcrowding of prisons. Major supporters included District Attorneys Steve Cooley, George Gascon and Jeffrey F Rosen, Mike Romano, the NAACP, and the Democratic Party.\n\nOpponents of Prop 36 argued that the Three Strikes Law was widely popular at its passage, was successful in keeping dangerous criminals off the streets, and reduced crime rates in the past two decades. (Note: This link has not been proved by studies.) They dismissed claims that its passage would reduce overcrowding, noting that those inmates serving 25-life under Three Strikes Law made up 6.6 percent of the prison population, while those serving a life sentence with a third non-serious, non-violent felony comprise only 3.5 percent of the entire population. Opponents contended that Proposition 36 creates a \"one size fits all\" approach that strips judges of their discretion in Three Strikes cases. They said that savings of money should not be at the expense of public safety or the state’s commitment to being tough on crime. The opposition said that Prop 36 was unnecessary, as the original bill had safeguards that allowed individual judges to assign sentences in accordance with each criminal’s background and local standards. Major opponents includes Mike Reynolds, who drafted the Three Strikes Law, Keith Royal, and the Republican Party.\n\nThe proposition was passed on November 6, 2012, with 8,575,619 people (69.3%) voting Yes and 3,798,218 people (30.7%) voting No. It passed by a majority in all counties of the state. It was most strongly supported in San Francisco (84.5%), Marin (83.2%), and Alameda (78.6%) counties. Madera county passed it with a slight majority of 52%.\n\nDue to its relatively recent passage, a thorough analysis of its implementation and effects has yet to be conducted. However, Stanford Law Three Strikes Project at Stanford Law School and the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund compiled a preliminary report of the progress of Proposition 36 in October 2013. The report said that more than 1,000 prisoners had been released as a direct result of Three Strikes reform. The report also found that Proposition had already saved California $10–13 million, and projected up to $1 billion in savings in the next ten years. The report found the recidivism rate of released third strikers to be 2%, a rate dramatically lower than the statewide average of 16% of past inmates committing new crimes within 90 days of release. More than 2,000 additional inmates were awaiting resentencing review. The urgency with which county courts have reviewed these petitions has varied widely: San Bernardino has reviewed 73% of eligible petitions and Los Angeles has completed review of 19%. Of the petitions filed, 66% are pending, 32% have been granted, and 2% have been denied. The very low denial rate of release suggests that judges and prosecutors have concluded that a majority of the third strikers qualifying for review under Proposition 36 do not pose a threat to society.\n\nThat portion of Proposition 36 relating to sentencing of current repeat felons convicted of a nonviolent, non-serious third felony has been implemented statewide. Such individuals have been sentenced to twice the length of a sentence of a criminal convicted of that crime as a first offense.\n\nHalfway through the two-year period allotted for court review of inmate petitions, more than two-thirds of such petitions have yet to be reviewed. The inconsistencies of implementation of Proposition 36 related to currently imprisoned populations is also problematic. The report also stresses the difficulties faced by released Third Strikers in re-entry to society. Unlike all other prisoners released from California jails, they are ineligible for state and county support, jobs, housing, and drug treatment. Some inmates have been released without warning to their families or authorities, and without qualifying for parole, probation, or any other form of state-sponsored assistance in returning to society.\n\nOther critics complain that inadequate prosecutorial resources and attorney’s intent upon denying or delaying resentencing to eligible inmates are also serious impediments to full implementation.\n"}
{"id": "15673338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15673338", "title": "Alliance Colony", "text": "Alliance Colony\n\nThe Alliance Colony was a Jewish agricultural community that was founded on May 10, 1882, in Pittsgrove Township, in Salem County, New Jersey, United States. It was named after the Alliance Israélite Universelle of Paris and was funded by the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society of New York and Philadelphia and The Baron De Hirsch Fund.\n\nFollowing the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, numerous pogroms targeting Russian Jews prompted many families to move emigrate. Many began their lives in America in tenements on Manhattan's Lower East Side. As the numbers of Jewish people in America increased there was a strong desire to leave the confinement and crowded conditions in the cities. Some Jewish thinkers and community leaders proclaimed that recent Jewish immigrants ought \"to become tillers of the soil and thus shake off the accusation that we were petty mercenaries living upon the toil of others.\" They settled in communities across the country, but many wished to continue living in predominately Jewish areas. These immigrants recognized that self-sufficiency would be paramount to their survival, which led them into agriculture. Alliance was founded by a core group of 43 settlers but many more followed and, by the end of the first summer, there were 60-70 families living in the colony.\n\nThe land that was settled consisted of per family on farmland that needed to be cleared and farmed. The immigrant colony members had little knowledge of agriculture and had difficulty farming the sandy South Jersey soil but received training from their neighbors. The HIAS paid workers weekly during the period in which land was cleared. Initially, Alliance was also supported by local politicians who arranged for 1,000+ army tents for the community for shelter until permanent housing could be built.\n\nThe Alliance Colony was primarily a farming community but also included various craftsmen, such as cabinetmaking, blacksmithing and masonry. Eventually a clothing factory was established, which is still in existence.\n\nIn 1901, there were 151 adults at Alliance and 345 children, 27 of whom were married. There were 78 farms worth $135,250. The community owned of land, of which 1,354 were cleared.\n\nAlliance focused on education, building several well recognized schools as well as four synagogues--at least one of which still is in operation--as well as a Jewish cemetery.\n\nProminent Americans from Alliance Colony include Gilbert Seldes, born January 3, 1893, writer and cultural critic, and his older brother George Seldes, born November 16, 1890, an investigative journalist and media critic. Joseph Perskie become the first Jewish justice to serve on the New Jersey Supreme Court, and the Bayuk brothers went on to found the Phillies Cigar company.\n\nAll of the Jewish Agricultural Societies of the late 19th century and early 20th century have faded away.\n\nRemnants of Alliance Colony exist today, the cemetery is still in use for the Jewish communities in Cumberland and Salem Counties and is well maintained, the home of Moses Bayuk, the founder of the colony is still standing and there are plans to turn the property into a cultural center and museum.\n\nThe last known survivor of the Alliance Colony, Lillian Greenblatt Braun, celebrated her 100th birthday in 2005. She died on October 20, 2015 at the age of 110.\n\nThe Jewish Federation of Cumberland, Gloucester & Salem Counties is currently working on building a Jewish Heritage Center on the property to commemorate the community's history, the history of Jews in America and their participation in farming.\n\nThe old \"Tifereth Israel\" synagogue, built in vernacular style in 1889 and disused in 1996, is one of the few surviving 19th-century synagogues in the United States.\n\nIn 2017, William Levin, a descendant of Moses Bayuk, and his wife Malya Levin, publicly launched the Alliance Community Reboot project (also known as ACRe), in an effort to renew the agricultural life of the old Alliance Colony. They began a collaboration with local Jewish farmer Nathan Kleinman of the Experimental Farm Network, who planted various heritage grains and other heirloom plants on one of the fields owned by the Levins, close to the old \"Tifereth Israel\" synagogue. They plan to expand operations over the coming years.\n\nPeople who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with the Alliance Colony include:\n"}
{"id": "21315004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21315004", "title": "Asia-Pacific Peace Research Association", "text": "Asia-Pacific Peace Research Association\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Peace Research Association is the Regional Association of International Peace Research Association- IPRA. It is an international non-governmental organization of peace researchers, peace educators and peace advocates. \n\nThe Asian Peace Research Association was established on 5 December 1980, at the closing of the conference on Asian Peace Research in the Global Context held in Yokohama, Japan. The name was changed to the current name, Asia-Pacific Peace Research Association (APPRA), on 4 February 1992, during a regional conference organized by the association held at the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\nProf. John P. Synott of Queensland University of Technology is currently the convener of APPRA.\n\nThe distinctive orientation of APPRA is towards building societies of peace and justice. Basic to this mission is a comprehensive understanding of peace which means not only the absence of war and conflict but above all the presence of essential conditions for the well-being of humanity.\n"}
{"id": "23224396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23224396", "title": "Australian Labor Party (NSW)", "text": "Australian Labor Party (NSW)\n\nThe Australian Labor Party (NSW), commonly known as Lang Labor, was a political group arising from a major breakaway from the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales that operated from 1931 to 1936, when the two groups were reconciled.\n\nFollowing the start of the 1931 Labor split, with the support of the state party, the Labor Premier of New South Wales, Jack Lang, repudiated the Premiers' Plan agreed by a meeting of the Premiers of the Australian states in June 1931 for the economic management of the Great Depression in Australia and announced a policy of foreign debt repudiation, known as the \"Lang Plan\", and imposed a moratorium on the New South Wales government's overseas loans. This was contrary to the policy of the federal Labor government led by James Scullin. As a result, Lang's supporters, led by Jack Beasley and Eddie Ward, were expelled from the federal Caucus.\n\nThis led to a split between the Federal and State executives of the Labor party. In 1931 Lang's supporters in the House of Representatives voted with the United Australia Party Opposition to bring down the Scullin Labor government and force an early election. At the 1931 federal elections, the Lang-controlled New South Wales Branch ran candidates as the Australian Labor Party (New South Wales), but they were generally known as Lang Labor candidates. Supporters of the federal party (led in New South Wales by Ted Theodore and Ben Chifley) were known as Federal Labor candidates.\n\nThe elections resulted in a landslide defeat for Federal Labor, but most of the Lang members had ultra-safe working class seats and survived, although Ward was narrowly defeated in East Sydney, before returning at the 1932 East Sydney by-election. Lang Labor won four seats, while nationwide the ALP retained only 14 seats after the loss of 32 seats, and won only three seats in New South Wales. Theodore and Chifley were both defeated ending Theodore's political career. \n\nLang Labor significantly increased its total vote, and won nine seats, at the 1934 federal election, which saw the ALP win only one seat in New South Wales (Newcastle).\n\nIn September 1935, John Curtin succeeded Scullin as Federal Labor leader and in February 1936 he brought about a reconciliation with the New South Wales Branch, resulting in Labor running as a single party throughout the nation at the 1937 federal election. Though Labor remained in opposition after the election, the party's competitiveness was restored with a large increase to their vote and seats held, becoming the largest single party in the House of Representatives on both votes and seats, and successfully positioning the party to form government a year after the 1940 federal election. Furthermore the ALP would enjoy their greatest House of Representatives victory both in terms of proportion of seats and their strongest national two-party vote at the 1943 federal election and additionally their first successful federal re-election attempt at the 1946 federal election.\n\n"}
{"id": "19136316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19136316", "title": "Benjamin F. Feinberg", "text": "Benjamin F. Feinberg\n\nBenjamin Franklin Feinberg (October 23, 1888 – February 6, 1959) was an American lawyer and politician from New York. He was Temporary President of the New York State Senate from 1944 to 1949.\n\nHe was born on October 23, 1888, in Malone, Franklin County, New York. Later he lived in Plattsburgh.\n\nHe was a member of the New York State Senate from 1933 to 1949, sitting in the 156th, 157th, 158th, 159th, 160th, 161st, 162nd, 163rd, 164th, 165th, 166th and 167th New York State Legislatures; and was Temporary President from 1944 to 1949.\n\nHe was a delegate to the New York State Constitutional Convention of 1938. He was an alternate delegate to the 1940 Republican National Convention, and a delegate to the 1944 and 1948 Republican National Conventions.\n\nIn 1949, he sponsored the Feinberg Bill, an act to purge Communist and fellow traveler teachers from the State public-school system. The bill required the Regents of the State School Board to draw up a list of all subversive organizations. Membership in such organizations was sufficient grounds for summary removal. Although the law focused on organisational membership, in its implementation it would delve into people’s reading preferences, social activities, rallies attended, petitions signed, and beliefs on current political issues. The regents were also empowered to dismiss school employees for the \"utterance of any treasonable or seditious word...or the doing of any treasonable or seditious act...\" regardless of their affiliations. The Law was struck down in 1967 as unconstitutional in its violations of individual liberties.\n\nOn March 30, 1949, Feinberg was appointed Chairman of the New York State Public Service Commission, and remained in office until 1958.\n\nFeinberg was instrumental in the founding of the State University of New York, and the Library at SUNY Plattsburgh is named after him.\n\nHe died on February 6, 1959, in Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, of kidney disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "42075369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42075369", "title": "CMC Group", "text": "CMC Group\n\nCMC Group Inc. was founded in 1987 by real estate developer Ugo Colombo. CMC Group Inc. is a residential and commercial real estate development, construction, and investment company headquartered in Miami, Florida.\n\nCMC Group's developments include Epic Residences and Hotel, a 55-story luxury condominium and hotel on the Miami River in downtown Miami, Grovenor House, a 166-unit luxury condominium project completed in 2006 in the heart of Miami’s Coconut Grove community, and Bristol Tower and Santa Maria on Brickell Avenue. Colombo participated in a joint venture to create the ultimate in country club living, Porto Vita, a Mediterranean-style village located in Aventura, North Miami-Dade County, along the Intracoastal Waterway.\n\nCMC Group is currently a joint venture partner with Valerio Morabito in the development of boutique condominium Beach House 8 on Miami Beach. And in 2013, Ugo Colombo and CMC Group purchased the Brickell Flatiron site in downtown Miami with businessman Vladislav Doronin for $23 million to develop a luxury residential tower with interior design by American artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel.\n"}
{"id": "35334535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35334535", "title": "Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act", "text": "Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act\n\nThe Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA (112th Congress), (113th Congress), (114th Congress)) was a proposed law in the United States which would allow for the sharing of Internet traffic information between the U.S. government and technology and manufacturing companies. The stated aim of the bill is to help the U.S. government investigate cyber threats and ensure the security of networks against cyberattacks.\n\nThe legislation was introduced on November 30, 2011, by Representative Michael Rogers (R-MI) and 111 co-sponsors. It was passed in the House of Representatives on April 26, 2012, but was not passed by the U.S. Senate. President Barack Obama's advisers have argued that the bill lacks confidentiality and civil liberties safeguards, and the White House said he would veto it. \n\nIn February 2013, the House reintroduced the bill and it passed in the United States House of Representatives on April 18, 2013, but stalled and was not voted upon by the Senate. On July 10, 2014 a similar bill, the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA), was introduced in the Senate.\n\nIn January 2015, the House reintroduced the bill again. The bill has been referred to the Committee on Intelligence, and as of February 2, 2015 to the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations and Subcommittee on Constitution and Civil Justice to see if it will come to the House for a vote.\nIn December 2015 a version of CISPA was hidden in the total federal budget.\n\nCISPA had garnered favor from corporations and lobbying groups such as Microsoft, Facebook, AT&T, IBM, and the United States Chamber of Commerce, which look on it as a simple and effective means of sharing important cyber threat information with the government. It has however been criticized by advocates of Internet privacy and civil liberties, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the American Civil Liberties Union, Free Press, Fight for the Future, and Avaaz.org, as well as various conservative and libertarian groups including the Competitive Enterprise Institute, TechFreedom, FreedomWorks, Americans for Limited Government, Liberty Coalition, and the American Conservative Union. Those groups argue CISPA contains too few limits on how and when the government may monitor a private individual’s Internet browsing information. Additionally, they fear that such new powers could be used to spy on the general public rather than to pursue malicious hackers. \n\nSome critics saw wording included in CISPA as a second attempt to protect intellectual property after the Stop Online Piracy Act was taken off the table by Congress after it met opposition. Intellectual property theft was initially listed in the bill as a possible cause for sharing Web traffic information with the government, though it was removed in subsequent drafts.\n\nCISPA is an amendment to the National Security Act of 1947, which does not currently contain provisions pertaining to cybercrime. It adds provisions to the Act describing cyber threat intelligence as \"information in the possession of an element of the intelligence community directly pertaining to a vulnerability of, or threat to, a system or network of a government or private entity, including information pertaining to the protection of a system or network from either \"efforts to degrade, disrupt, or destroy such system or network\". In addition, CISPA requires the Director of National Intelligence to establish procedures to allow intelligence community elements to share cyber threat intelligence with private-sector entities and encourage the sharing of such intelligence.\n\nIn an April 16, 2012, press release, the House of Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence announced the approval of several amendments to CISPA, including the addition of a new provision \"to permit federal lawsuits against the government for any violation of restrictions placed on the government’s use of voluntarily shared information, including the important privacy and civil liberties protections contained in the bill,\" the inclusion of an anti-tasking provision to \"explicitly prohibit the government from conditioning its sharing of cyber threat intelligence on the sharing of private sector information with the government\", and the prevention of the government from using the information for \"any other lawful purpose unless the government already has a significant cybersecurity or national security purpose in using the information\". Relevant provisions were also clarified to \"focus on the fact that the bill is designed to protect against unauthorized access to networks or systems, including unauthorized access aimed at stealing private or government information\". In addition, already collected cyberthreat data can also be used to investigate \"the imminent threat of bodily harm to an individual\" or \"the exploitation of a minor,\" bringing the bill into line with existing law codified by the Patriot Act and the PROTECT Our Children Act in which these two conditions already allow for protected entities to share data voluntarily with the United States government, law enforcement agencies, and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.\n\nBill sponsors Mike Rogers and Dutch Ruppersberger, the chairman and ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, respectively, said on April 25, 2012, that the Obama administration's opposition is mostly based on the lack of critical infrastructure regulation, something outside of the jurisdiction of the Intelligence committee; they have also since introduced a package of amendments to the legislation that, \"address nearly every single one of the criticisms leveled by the Administration, particularly those regarding privacy and civil liberties of Americans\".\n\nDue to the opposition the bill has experienced, the co-sponsors are planning to amend the bill to address many of the concerns of its opponents—including limiting its scope to a narrower definition of cyber-threats, and stating that the \"theft of intellectual property\" refers to the theft of research and development. In addition, there will now be penalties if private companies or the government uses data from CISPA for purposes \"unrelated to cyberthreats\".\n\nHowever, Sharan Bradford Franklin, of the Constitution Project states, \"Although we appreciate the Intelligence Committee's efforts to improve the bill and willingness to engage in a dialogue with privacy advocates, the changes in its most current draft do not come close to addressing the civil liberties threats posed by the bill, and some of the proposals would actually make CISPA worse. Therefore, Congress should not pass CISPA\".\n\nRainey Reitman, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation states, \"To date, the authors of the bill have been unresponsive to these criticisms, offering amendments that are largely cosmetic. Dismissing the grave concerns about how this bill could undermine the core privacy rights of everyday Internet users, Rep. Mike Rogers characterized the growing protests against CISPA as 'turbulence' and vowed to push for a floor vote without radical changes.\"\n\nKendall Burman of the Center for Democracy and Technology states, \"The authors of CISPA have made some positive changes recently. Unfortunately, none of the changes gets to the heart of the privacy concerns that Internet users and advocacy groups have expressed.\"\n\nIn April 2012, the Office of Management and Budget of the Executive Office of the President of the United States released a statement strongly opposing the current bill and recommending to veto it.\n\nOn April 26, 2012, the House of Representatives passed CISPA.\n\nOn February 13, 2013, United States Representative Mike Rogers reintroduced the CISPA bill in the 113th Congress as H.R. 624.\n\nOn April 18, 2013, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 624. The Senate has reportedly refused to vote on the measure and is drafting competing legislation.\n\nOn July 10, 2014 a similar bill, the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA), was introduced in the Senate.\n\nA full list can be seen at the house.gov site.\n\nA full list can be seen at the house.gov site.\n\nCISPA is supported by several trade groups containing more than eight hundred private companies, including the Business Software Alliance, CTIA – The Wireless Association, Information Technology Industry Council, Internet Security Alliance, National Cable & Telecommunications Association, National Defense Industrial Association, TechAmerica and United States Chamber of Commerce, in addition to individual major telecommunications and information technology companies like AT&T, IBM, Intel, Oracle Corporation, Symantec, and Verizon. Google has not taken a public position on the bill but has shown previous support for it, and now says they support the idea but believe the bill needs some work. Leading Google, Yahoo, and Microsoft executives are also on the executive council of TechNet, a tech trade group which sent a letter supporting CISPA in April 2013.\n\n\nDubbed the \"Stop Cyber Spying Week\", starting on April 16, 2012, many civil liberties groups and advocates raised the awareness of CISPA (through a Twitter campaign with the hash-tags #CISPA and #CongressTMI,) including, but not limited to, the Constitution Project, American Civil Liberties Union, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Center for Democracy and Technology, Demand Progress, Fight for the Future, Free Press, Reporters Without Borders, Sunlight Foundation, and TechFreedom.\n\nAnonymous, a hacktivist group, has criticized the bill and called for an \"Internet blackout day\" to protest the bill. The date of the blackout was April 22, 2013.\n\nSince legislation must pass the House and the Senate within the same Congress, anything introduced during the 112th or earlier Congresses has to pass both chambers again.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36317659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36317659", "title": "Democratic Political Turning Point", "text": "Democratic Political Turning Point\n\nDemocratic Political Turning Point (DPK, ) was a political party in the Netherlands. The party was founded by Hero Brinkman, an independent member of the House of Representatives, formerly a member of the Party for Freedom (PVV). After Brinkman left the Party for Freedom he founded the Independent Citizens' Party (OBP). On 9 June 2012, Brinkman announced that the Independent Citizens' Party was merging with the Proud of the Netherlands (TON) party to form a new party: Democratic Political Turning Point. The party participated in the Dutch general election of 2012, but did not win any seats. On 18 November 2012, TON reversed the merger and parted ways with Brinkman.\n"}
{"id": "34182404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34182404", "title": "Dharma Bhakta Mathema", "text": "Dharma Bhakta Mathema\n\nMartyr (Sahid) Dharma Bhakta Mathema (1908 – 24 January 1941) is one of the revered freedom fighters of Nepal, who sacrificed his life in struggle for freedom against hereditary prime ministership of the Rana dynasty. He was a professional wrestler and body builder as well as a founding member of Praja Parishad party of Nepal. He was hanged during the freedom movement, and he is duly recognized as one of the four martyrs of Nepal. His statue is found, along with other three martyrs, in the Martyr's Gate (Sahid Gate) memorial in Kathmandu. A school is also established on his name 'Shahid Dharma Bhakta School (SDB)' currently located in Nakkhu, Lalitpur, Nepal by her daughter Renu Devi which runs the classes from montessori to grade 10 (School Leaving Certificate). He is also said to have introduced modern body building techniques in Nepal. \n\nDharma Bhakta Mathema was born of a Newar family in Kathmandu in 1908 (1965 BS). His father Adi Bhakta Mathema held a government office as a \"subba\" during the Rana rule. He often went to India to purchase things for the Ranas. He met learned men in India and understood the importance of education. He received his basic education in Sanatan Madhyamik Vidhyalaya in Darjeeling, after which he went to the Scottish Church College in Calcutta to get an Intermediate in \nArts (I.A.) degree.\n\nDharma Bhakta was thin and unhealthy during his childhood, which caused other children to tease and bully him. To put an end to all that, he joined a gym while in Calcutta. Constant physical exercise rapidly improved his health. He so excelled in bodybuilding that he was announced as \"Shree Bengal\" (which literally means \"Mr. Bengal\") in an all Bengal bodybuilding contest.\n\nAfter graduating with an I.A. degree from Scottish Church College, he married Uttaradevi from Biratnagar. He returned to Kathmandu and established a gym at his aunt Yamkumari Ray's house. Many youths of Kathmandu were attracted by the novelty of the gym. The gym attracted not only the commoners but also the Rana family and the police forces too. Once a troop of German soldiers had come to Nepal for a visit. He showed his body building tricks and exercises to them in the presence of Juddha Shumsher. His proficiency easily won their hearts. \n\nOnce during the Ghode Jatra festival, he showed his bodybuilding \nprowess to the people in the presence of King Tribhuvan and the Rana family in Tundikhel. He made different bodybuilding poses and performed many test of strength. For instance, he put a long rod on his back and told three to four persons on each side of the rod to hang. He was then jumping and lifting with those people. In another instance he lied down on the ground and told a person to hammer his chest with a hammer. People were amazed that he was unharmed. People could not believe that a man could be so strong. King Tribhuvan was also greatly impressed by his feat, so much so such that he was appointed as a physical instructor to the king.\n\nBesides bodybuilding, he was actively interested in politics. At that time the struggle for the independence from the British Raj was gaining momentum in India. While in India Dharma Bhakta had met Chittaranjan Das and had joined in the struggle for Indian independence. He wanted to establish a political party and settle in India itself. But for some reason he dropped that plan and returned to Kathmandu with an ardent desire for freedom from the Rana regime. Tyranny, debauchery, economic exploitation and religious persecution characterized Rana rule.\n\nIn those days, Juddha Shamsher was the prime minister of Nepal, who ruled with an iron fist. All political parties were banned. Dharma Bhakta met Dashrath Chand in Kathmandu in 1990 BS and in 1936 AD, a political party Praja Parishad was founded in the house of Dharma Bhakta. The founders were Tanka Prasad Acharya, Jiwan Raj Sharma, Ramhari Sharma, Dharma Bhakta and Dashrath Chand. His connection with King Tribhuwan as a physical instructor allowed him to act as a go-between the king and the Praja Parishad. He conveyed every activity of the Praja parishad to the King. However discovery of his political activities prompted Juddha Shamsher to exile his father Adi Bhakta Mathema.\n\nOne day, a secret meeting of Praja Parishad was held in Lainchaur which was also attended by King Tribhuwan. The information of this meeting reached Juddha Shamsher, which led to the arrest of many of the members of Praja Parishad including, Dharma Bhakta were arrested. Since three of the founding members of Praja Parishad were of Brahmin caste, and hence were exempt from death penalty, they were duly humiliated and exile. As for Dashrath Chand and Dharma Bhakta, their caste could not provide a shield against the ruthlessness of a tyrant. Both of them were given death penalty. On 24 January 1941 (Magh 12, 1997 BS), Dharma Bhakta was hanged till death at Shifal, Kathmandu, at midnight.\n"}
{"id": "3222417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3222417", "title": "Economic Opportunity Institute", "text": "Economic Opportunity Institute\n\nThe Economic Opportunity Institute (EOI) is an American public policy think tank based in Seattle, Washington. It is a liberal and non-profit organization. It was founded in 1998.\n\nAccording to its website, EOI's mission is to help create policies that build long-term economic security and ensure prosperity for the middle class in Washington state.\n\n"}
{"id": "45001153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45001153", "title": "Ed Emery (writer)", "text": "Ed Emery (writer)\n\nEd Emery (born 1946) is an ethnomusicologist, writer, translator and political activist. In the 1970s, he was involved in political activist group Big Flame, and was one of the early organisers of the UK-based Ford Workers' Group. In 1976, he founded radical publisher Red Notes. He has translated key works by Italian playwright Dario Fo and political theorist Antonio Negri. As a writer, he has regularly contributed to Le Monde diplomatique and co-authored two plays with Richard Fredman, \"Les Juifs de Salonique\" and \"The Night Before Larry Was Stretched\". In 2015, for services rendered in the left political movement, he was elected Honorary Member for life of the SOAS Student Union. \n\nAs a result of his political activism, Emery has been influential in producing English translations of key works from the Italian Operaismo movement, including by Antonio Negri, Mario Tronti, Sergio Bologna and Romano Alquati and as well as Italian Communist Antonio Gramsci. He edited and translated \"Italy 1977-8: Living with and Earthquake\", a key text on Italian politics and the Operaismo movement. He has continued to translate recent work by Negri for Polity press.\n\nEmery also established an archive of materials relating to the Italian Left in the 1970s, which is now kept at the British Library of Political and Economic Science at the London School of Economics.\n\nEmery has also translated a number of works by Italian playwrights Dario Fo and Franca Rame. He was on-stage translator for Fo during his UK tour in 1982, and produced a book documenting the first UK performance of Franca Rame's play The Rape, published as \"Dario Fo and Franca Rame: Theatre Workshops at Riverside Studios 1982\" through Red Notes. The book included transcriptions of theatre workshops held by Fo and Rame as well as two new translations.\n\nEmery translated three Fo plays published in the collection which followed his 1997 award of the Nobel Prize in Literature: \"Misterro Buffo\", \"Accidental Death of an Anarchist\", and \"One was Nude and One Wore Tails\".\n\nAfter translating for the English edition of Le Monde diplomatique for several years, Emery also began writing for the paper on topics such as music, culture, poetry, and Middle Eastern politics\n\nFrom 2000-2015 Emery organised the annual Hydra Rebetiko Gathering devoted to Greek rebetiko urban blues music. He works particularly on Greek, Arabic and Kurdish music, with a particular focus on migrant musicians in Calais and Dunkirk. His work on maqamic music and on medieval Arabic and Hebrew music is reflected in ongoing conferences organised by The Free University, of which he is the founder and sole member.\n\nIn 2000 he set up The Free University, an international conference-based network of colleagues researching a variety of topics. Under the umbrella of that university, and in conjunction with the History Department of the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) he is the organiser of a number of international animal conferences on the history and future prospects of quadruped cultures around the world: for example, the Donkey Conference, the Camel Conference, the Elephant Conference and the War Horses of the World conference.\n\nIn 2016 he was appointed Research Associate at the Centre for Migration and Diaspora Studies at SOAS. As a co-author, he has been collected by libraries.\n"}
{"id": "23931536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23931536", "title": "Epistrategos", "text": "Epistrategos\n\nEpistrategos (, \"over-general\"; ) was a senior military and administrative office in Ptolemaic Egypt, which was retained during the subsequent Roman period as well.\n\nUnder Ptolemaic rule, a Greek \"strategos\" was appointed to each of the Egyptian nomes, originally as garrison commander for the Greek troops, but soon eclipsing the nomarch and assuming administrative duties as well. Gradually, a number of nomes began being placed under the authority of a single \"strategos\", and under Ptolemy II Philadelphus (), the office of \"epistrategos\" of the \"Chora\" (i.e. the interior country) was established, with authority over the other \"strategoi\" in the entirety of Egypt beyond the capital, Alexandria. Later, a second \"epistrategos\" was created for the Thebaid. As with most of the Ptolemaic system, the office was retained after the Roman takeover in 30 BC, with a layer of Roman officials under the augustal prefect grafted onto the existing administrative structure. The office remained important, although it apparently lost any military responsibility; very soon, it came to be held by Roman citizens of equestrian status. Reflecting the Roman division of Egypt in three broad areas (the Nile Delta area or Lower Egypt, Middle Egypt or Heptanomis, and the Thebaid), during the Roman era there were three or four \"epistrategoi\", as there were often two holders of the office in Lower Egypt, one for the east and one for the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "29966572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29966572", "title": "F. Wolfgang Schnell", "text": "F. Wolfgang Schnell\n\nF. Wolfgang Schnell (* 18 May 1913 in Bad Oeynhausen; † 29 December 2006 in Stuttgart) was a German professor of applied genetics and plant breeding. He belonged to the most prominent scientists in his field during the second half of the 20th century.\n\nF. Wolfgang Schnell attended high school (Gymnasium) in Celle, Halle, and Leipzig. After having passed the final examinations (Abitur) in 1931 he served his apprenticeship in agriculture on a farm near Hamburg (1932–1934). Thereafter he studied agricultural sciences in Berlin, Munich, and Göttingen (1935–1939). Military service (1939–1945) and captivity (1945–1948) interrupted his scientific career for almost ten years. In 1949 he received a doctoral degree in agricultural economics at the University of Göttingen. He then changed the subject and attended a two-year training course in plant breeding at the Max-Planck-Institute (MPIZ) in Voldagsen (later Cologne). In 1952 he got an appointment at an MPIZ branch station in Scharnhorst close to Hannover. There he was responsible for the cross-pollinated cereals maize (Zea mays) and rye (Secale cereale). He focussed upon the general principles of plant breeding methodology and the genetic foundations of heterosis. In 1958 he spent six months at the North Carolina State University in Raleigh (hosted by CC Cockerham, RE Comstock, and HF Robinson) and visited several other leading US universities. These visits greatly stimulated his research since he became acquainted with cutting edge research in statistics, quantitative genetics, and breeding methodology. Five years later, he earned his \"Habilitation\" degree at the University of Göttingen, qualifying him to work as a university professor. In the same year (1963) he was appointed full professor and director of the newly established Institute of Plant Breeding at the University of Hohenheim (Stuttgart, Germany). There he headed the Chair of Applied Genetics and Plant Breeding until his retirement in 1981. During most of this time he also acted as director, later as a major scientific advisor, of the Hohenheim State Plant Breeding Institute (Landessaatzuchtanstalt).\n\nAlready Schnell's early research at Scharnhorst received great national and international recognition. He significantly contributed to progress in the biometrical, population genetic, and quantitative genetic foundations of modern plant breeding. His greatest achievements were an extension of the linkage theory to an arbitrary number of loci and the derivation of formulae for the genetic covariance between relatives in the presence of arbitrary linkage and epistasis. The genuine impact of these two breakthroughs only became apparent about five decades later with the advent of affordable high-throughput genotyping and sequencing technologies. In addition, Schnell extended the theory of selection for quantitative traits to multiple stages and developed models for assessing the influence of epistasis on heterosis. Last but not least, he modernized the design and analysis of plant breeding field experiments by implementing new statistical tools and electronic data processing technologies.\n\nSchnell's breeding activities were mainly directed to the two open-pollinated cereals rye and maize. In rye he started a systematic search for cytoplasmic male sterility in backcross generations of crosses between European and \"exotic\" rye accessions. This program was continued by HH Geiger and in 1984 lead to the first listed hybrid rye varieties worldwide. In maize Schnell developed early-maturing flint and dent line gene pools and in 1965 released the first German double-cross hybrid 'Velox' (FAO 210).\n\nAt the University of Hohenheim Schnell focused on the development of a comprehensive theory of plant breeding. Major research topics of his group included \n\nAll theoretical studies were accompanied by extensive field experiments, many of which were conducted in collaboration with breeding companies.\n\nAfter his retirement (1981) Schnell concentrated his research on the development of a unified quantitative genetic theory of heterosis. In several papers and scientific talks he made valuable contributions to this topic. In one of his last papers (together with C.C. Cockerham, Genetics 1992) he clarified the influence of multiplicative gene action versus other types of epistasis in heterosis.\n\nSchnell excelled in intellectual power, clear research concepts, and a strong mission towards promoting plant breeding. His creative power resulted from his enthusiasm for gaining scientific knowledge and for developing superior breeding strategies. He once compared his scientific enthusiasm with a stampeder’s frenetic search for gold.\n\nWhen Schnell was appointed professor of Applied Genetics and Plant Breeding at Hohenheim, no adequate course program existed in this field. During the first years of his employment he therefore spent most of his energy on developing an up-to-date teaching program covering all relevant basic and applied areas. According to his research interests he put particular emphasis on the theoretical foundations and the general principles of plant breeding. He classified the breeding methods into four \"breeding categories\" viz. line, population, hybrid, and clone breeding. These categories are unambiguously defined by the reproductive characteristics and the genetic structure of the resulting varieties as well as by the mode of reproduction of the respective species. This classification system proved highly useful not only in teaching but also in research. In the course of time the system was adopted by many colleagues in Germany and abroad.\n\nSchnell also built up first courses in biometry and population genetics. To strengthen these subjects, the University of Hohenheim followed his proposal to install a new chair for each of these fields (1971). Thereby Hohenheim became one of the most attractive places for studying plant breeding in Germany. Furthermore, he suggested a fundamental reform of the study course in Agricultural Sciences and, together with D Fewson (animal breeding), he initiated a new study course in Agricultural Biology.\n\nSchnell mentored 26 Ph.D. students, many of whom reached leading positions in research institutions and breeding companies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "574945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574945", "title": "Fiscal federalism", "text": "Fiscal federalism\n\nAs a subfield of public economics, fiscal federalism is concerned with \"understanding which functions and instruments are best centralized and which are best placed in the sphere of decentralized levels of government\" (Oates, 1999). In other words, it is the study of how competencies (expenditure side) and fiscal instruments (revenue side) are allocated across different (vertical) layers of the administration. An important part of its subject matter is the system of transfer payments or grants by which a central government shares its revenues with lower levels of government.\n\nFederal governments use this power to enforce national rules and standards. There are two primary types of transfers, conditional and unconditional. A conditional transfer from a federal body to a province, or other territory, involves a certain set of conditions. If the lower level of government is to receive this type of transfer, it must agree to the spending instructions of the federal government. An example of this would be the Canada Health Transfer.\n\nAn unconditional grant is usually a cash or tax point transfer, with no spending instructions. An example of this would be a federal equalization transfer.\n\nThis may be noted that the concept of fiscal federalism is relevant for all kinds of government: unitary, federal and confederal. The concept of fiscal federalism is not to be associated with fiscal decentralization in officially declared federations only; it is applicable even to non-federal states (having no formal federal constitutional arrangement) in the sense that they encompass different levels of government which have de facto decision-making authority.\n\nThis, however, does not mean that all forms of governments are 'fiscally' federal, only that 'fiscal federalism' is a set of principles that can be applied to all countries attempting 'fiscal decentralization'. In fact, fiscal federalism is a general normative framework for assignment of functions to the different levels of government and appropriate fiscal instruments for carrying out these functions \n\nIn 2017, Governor of Rivers State of Nigeria, Ezenwo Nyesom Wike said that he believes true fiscal federalism will \"strengthen the economy of his country as all sections will develop based on their comparative advantages\". These questions arise: (a) how are federal and non-federal countries different with respect to 'fiscal federalism' or 'fiscal decentralization', and (b) how are fiscal federalism and fiscal decentralization related (similar or different)?\n\nChanchal Kumar Sharma clarifies that while \"fiscal federalism constitutes a set of guiding principles, a guiding concept\" that helps in designing financial relations between the national and subnational levels of the government, \"fiscal decentralization on the other hand is a process of applying such principles\".\n\nFederal and non-federal countries differ in the manner in which such principles are applied. Application differs because unitary and federal governments differ in their political and legislative context and thus provide different opportunities for fiscal decentralization.\n\nThe concepts of fiscal federalism are related to vertical and horizontal fiscal relations. The notions related to horizontal fiscal relations are related to regional imbalances and horizontal competition. Similarly the notions related to fiscal relations are related to vertical fiscal imbalance between the two senior levels of government, that is the centre and the states/provinces. While the concept of horizontal fiscal imbalance is relatively non controversial (as explained above), the concept of vertical fiscal imbalance is quite controversial (see Bird 2003)\n\nVertical Fiscal Imbalance (VFI) is conceptually distinct from the notion of Vertical Fiscal Gap (VFG). These terms are used as synonyms, but they are not. \n\nFollowing Sharma (2011), any existing revenue-expenditure asymmetry between the two levels of a government should simply be called a Vertical Fiscal Asymmetry (VFA). The precise nature of this asymmetry, in a particular country, can be determined by using certain criteria that the author has evolved. The kind of policy solution to be applied will depend on the nature of asymmetry (VFA). Thus, there can be three types of VFAs:\n\n\nThe VFI-VFG-VFD offers a nice framework to understand and debate issues surrounding fiscal federalism. VFD is a concept that has entered the lexicon of fiscal federalism and has the power to clarify the debate on intergovernmental financial relations.\n\nVertical Fiscal Gap as the revenue deficiency arising from a mismatching between revenue means and expenditure needs.\n\nOECD Network on Fiscal Relations Across Levels of Government\n\nThe relationship between central and subcentral government bodies has a profound effect on efficiency and equity within the government and on macroeconomic stability of the country. The role of the OECD Network on Fiscal Relations Across Levels of Government, part of its Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, is to provide data and analysis on these relationships between organizations at different levels of government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41239809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41239809", "title": "Fischer–Spassky (1992 match)", "text": "Fischer–Spassky (1992 match)\n\nThe 1992 match between former World Chess Champions Bobby Fischer and Boris Spassky was billed as a World Chess Championship, but was unofficial. It was a rematch of the 1972 World Championship match. The match started in Sveti Stefan near Budva, an island off the coast of Montenegro. The match rules required a player to win ten games (draws not counting), with no . After a player had won five games, the match would take a 10-day recess and continue in Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. Both places were at the time part of the same country, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was under heavy UN economic sanctions because of the country′s involvement in the wars in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nFischer won the match 10–5.\n\nAfter defeating Spassky to win the title of World Champion in the World Chess Championship 1972, Fischer was scheduled to defend his title in 1975 against the winner of the 1974 FIDE Candidates Tournament, Anatoly Karpov. Fischer, however, was unhappy with the format of the World Championship. At the time the format was a 24-game match, with the winner being the first player to score 12½ points; if the match was drawn 12–12, then the match would be stopped, the prize money split, and the Champion retained his title. Fischer disliked this format because the player who was leading could play to draw games instead of win, and with each drawn game coast closer to the title. In his match against Spassky in 1972, games 14 to 20 were all draws. This style of chess offended Fischer. Instead, Fischer demanded the format be changed to that used in the very first World Championship, between Wilhelm Steinitz and Johannes Zukertort, where the winner was the first player to score 10 wins with draws not counting. In case of a 9–9 score, the champion would retain title, and the prize fund split equally. A FIDE Congress was held in 1974 during the Nice Olympiad. The delegates voted in favor of Fischer's 10-win proposal, but rejected the 9–9 clause as well as the possibility of an unlimited match. In response, Fischer refused to defend his title, and Karpov was declared World Champion by forfeit.\n\nSeventeen years later, Fischer entered negotiations with sponsors willing to fund a match under his proposed format, settling on a bid from Yugoslav millionaire Jezdimir Vasiljević. Fischer insisted that since he had not been defeated in a match, he was still the true World Champion. He further claimed that all the games in the FIDE-sanctioned World Championship matches, involving Karpov and his challengers Korchnoi and Kasparov, had prearranged outcomes. He then played a rematch of the 1972 World Chess Championship against Spassky (tied for 96th–102nd on the FIDE rating list at the time). The purse for the rematch was US$5 million, with $3.35 million of the purse to go to the winner.\n\nAfter Fischer's victory, he proclaimed himself as the \"Undefeated Champion of the World\". His status as a World Champion in 1992 is not widely acknowledged. At the time, the FIDE world champion was Garry Kasparov. Kasparov was also world number one in the current (July 1992) rating list with a 2790 rating, a 70-point lead over second ranked Vassily Ivanchuk. Fischer's score of 17½ out of 30 (counting draws) against Spassky, rated 2545 at the time, gave him a performance rating of 2645, which would have put him at No. 12 in the world on the July 1992 list. Yasser Seirawan believed that the match proved that Fischer's playing strength was \"somewhere in the top ten in the world\". Kasparov himself was dismissive of Fischer, stating that \"Bobby is playing OK, nothing more. Maybe his strength is 2600 or 2650. It wouldn't be close between us.\"\n\nFischer never played competitively again after this match, and died in 2008.\n\nAs for Spassky, this match proved to be his last major challenge. He continued to play occasional events, but never participated in a world championship cycle again.\n\n\"September 2\". 19.b4 was Fischer's preventing ...Nc5. After 22.Ra3 Fischer had the upper hand. \n\n\"September 3\". If 15.f5 then 15...g5! After 17...f6! the game was even (Krnić). \n\n\"September 5\". After 23...Rc8 Spassky was slightly better. \n\n\"September 6\". After 13.Nd4! Rc8 the game was even (Krnić). \n\n\"September 9\". After 22...b4 the position was unclear (Chandler). \n\n\"September 10\". A better line for Fischer would have been 16...Bb4 17.Ndf3! a5! 18.Nc6+ Bxc6 19.Rxc6 Rc8 20.Nd4 with a slight plus for Spassky (Seirawan). \n\n\"September 12\". The players reached a Ruy Lopez Pilnik Variation (\"ECO\" C90) after 11...Re8, which to the Zaitsev Variation after 13...Bb7. After 17...c4! 18.b4! cxd3 19.Bxd3 Qxd5 20.Be4 (\"diagram\") Nxe4 (only move) 21.Nxe4 Bg7 22.bxa5 f5 23.Ng3 e4 24.Nh4 Bf6? 25.Nxg6 e3 26.Nf4 Qxd2 27.Rxe3 Qxd1+ 28.Rxd1 Fischer had a decisive advantage (Matanović). If instead 20...Qc4, 21.Qb1! (Fischer) Nc6 22.Bxg6 fxg6 23.Qxg6+ Bg7 24.Nf5 and White wins. \n\n\"September 13\". After 15...Be6! 16.Kb1! Ne8 Spassky had a slight advantage (Krnić). \n\n\"September 16\". After 17...Kc6 18.axb6 cxb6 19.Nbxc5! Fischer had a decisive advantage (Matanović). \n\n\"September 19\". After 18.Bb5? (18.Qxa5 Nxa5 19.Rb5 Nc6 20.h4! was better) Qxd2+ 19.Kxd2 Bd7 Fischer had a slight advantage (Krnić). \n\n\"September 20\". Fischer innovates with a tactical gambit 7.b4 Spassky could have evened the game with 13...Ne7 (Timman). \n\n\"September 30\". Instead of 15...c5, better for Fischer was 15...c6 16.Qb3 and White has a slight advantage (Balasov). \n\n\"October 1\". Fischer could have kept a slight edge with 14.Qxa6 Bxa6 15.Na5! Rfc8 16.Be3 Rab8 17.b3 f5 18.exf5 gxf5 19.Rac1 (Matulović). \n\n\"October 3\". After 19...Rc7 the game was even (Damljanović). \n\n\"October 4\". After 19.f3 the game was even. \n\n\"October 7\". The players reached a Benoni Defense (\"ECO\" A56) after 5...Bg7, which transposed to a King's Indian Defence after 6.Bg5. Spassky should have played 9.Qd2 Nh5 10.Be2 Nxg3 11.hxg3 a6 12.Nf3 Nd7 13.0-0 Rb8 14.a4 with a slight advantage for White (Minev). \n\n\"October 10\". Spassky had the possibility 16...Qe7!? 17.Qd1 Re8 18.Qf3 Bc8 with an even game (Matanović). \n\n\"October 11\". After 20.Na5 Spassky had a slight edge. \n\n\"October 14\". Instead of 14.Rb1, 14.f5 would have yielded a slight edge to Fischer (Matanović). \n\n\"October 15\". After 14.g4 Spassky had a slight edge (Acers, Ciamara). \n\n\"October 17\". After 16.Qd2, Fischer had a slight advantage. \n\n\"October 18\". After 18...Nc7 the game was even. \n\n\"October 21\". After 19...Be6 the game was even. \n\n\"October 24\". After 14...Kh7 the game was even. \n\n\"October 28\". \n\n\"October 29\". The players reached a Benoni Defense (\"ECO\" A56) after 6.Bd3, which transposed to a King's Indian Defence after 7.Nf3. After 16.g4! Spassky had a slight edge (Krnić). \n\n\"October 31\". If 14.b3 instead (to prevent 14...Nc4), then either 14...Bd6 or 14...c4 15.f3 give a level game (Balashov). \n\n\"November 1\". After 15.0-0-0 Spassky had a slight advantage. \n\n\"November 4\". After 22...Nb6, Spassky had a slight advantage. \n\n\"November 5\". After 13.g4? (13.Qd2!?) hxg4! 14.fxg4 c5 15.h5 cxd4 16.Nd4 Nc5! Fischer had the upper hand (Krnić). \nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "22889105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22889105", "title": "Futian incident", "text": "Futian incident\n\nThe Futian incident () is the common title for the December 1930 purge of a battalion of the Jiangxi-Fujian Soviet's \"Red Army\" at Futian (now in the Ji'an's Qingyuan District). The Futian battalion's leaders had mutinied against Mao Zedong's purge of the Jiangxi Action Committee, ordered on the pretext of its alleged connection to the Anti-Bolshevik League and ties to Trotskyism.\n\nIn response to the Anti-Bolshevik League incident, the Futian battalion rebelled against Mao, claiming that Mao was attempting to arrest generals Zhu De and Peng Dehuai, and surrender to the KMT army. These claims were unfounded, but the rebellion highlights the friction that existed between factions of the Red Army during the early days of the Communist revolution. In response to the rebellion, 700 officers of the Futian battalion were arrested and executed, and the remnants of the battalion were absorbed into others.\n\nDuring the Futian incident Zhu De and Peng Dehuai were unequivocal supporters of Mao, despite their different political positions. This allowed Mao's position as leader of the Red Army to be vindicated.\n\nIn September 1956, Mao admitted that the purges during the Anti-Bolshevik League incident, as well as the Futian incident, were a mistake, in which the wrong people were killed. In 1988, President Yang Shangkun commissioned an investigation into the Futian incident, which recommended the rehabilitation of the victims, but it was never followed up due to the Tiananmen Square protests and subsequent massacre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28108031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28108031", "title": "Green New Deal", "text": "Green New Deal\n\nThe term Green New Deal (also New New Deal) is used to describe any stimulus package that aims to address both financial crises and environmental issues such as climate change. The term references the New Deal, the social and economic stimulus package undertaken by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in response to the Great Depression. Supporters of a Green New Deal most likely advocate for a combination of Roosevelt's fiscal ideals with more contemporary approaches such as investment in renewable energies and the promotion of greater resource efficiency.\n\nAn early influential use of the term Green New Deal, which gave it prominence in the US and well beyond, was by journalist Thomas L. Friedman. He argued in favor of such concepts in two pieces that appeared in the \"New York Times\" and \"The New York Times Magazine\". In January 2007 Friedman wrote:This approach was subsequently taken up by the Green New Deal Group, which published its eponymous report on July 21, 2008. The concept was further popularized and put on a wider footing when the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) began to promote it. On October 22, 2008 UNEP's Executive Director Achim Steiner unveiled the \"Global Green New Deal\" initiative that aims to create jobs in \"green\" industries, thus boosting the world economy and curbing climate change at the same time.\n\nBroadly, the proposals for a Green New Deal echo the recommendations of UN-mandated organizations such as ICLEI or the TEEB, of global NGOs, and of the Basel II and related monetary accords, especially as these relate to reforms to measurement of fundamental ecosystem risk and financial liabilities. The reinsurance industry has also expressed support for the general principles of global carbon and emissions charges, for metrics of ecosystem destabilization risk, and for raising the price companies and individuals have to pay when using nature's services and natural resources.\n\nSeveral measures proposed as part of a Green New Deal have already been implemented in one or more G8 or G20 countries including Norway, South Korea, the UK, Germany, and the US. The financial proposals echo some of the programs already underway at the IMF, World Bank, BIS and ECB that aim to better reflect the value of ecosystems and reduce systematic incentives to invest in \"dirty\" or destructive industries.\n\n\n\nIn the United States, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein made a Green New Deal a central part of her campaigns as early as 2012. Greens continued to suggest a Green New Deal in their rebuttal to the 2018 State of the Union speech. The Green New Deal is officially part of the platform of the Green Party of the United States.\n\nA \"Green New Deal\" wing began to emerge in the Democratic Party after the November 2018 elections.\n\nA possible program in 2018 for a \"Green New Deal\" assembled by the think tank Data for Progress was described as \"pairing labor programs with measures to combat the climate crisis.\"\n\nA November 2018 article in \"Vogue\" stated, \"There isn’t just one Green New Deal yet. For now, it’s a platform position that some candidates are taking to indicate that they want the American government to devote the country to preparing for climate change as fully as Franklin Delano Roosevelt once did to reinvigorating the economy after the Great Depression.\"\n\nA week after the 2018 midterm elections, climate justice group Sunrise Movement organized a protest in Nancy Pelosi's office calling on Nancy Pelosi to support a Green New Deal. On the same day, freshman congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez launched a resolution to create a committee on the Green New Deal. Following this, several candidates came out supporting a \"Green New Deal\", including Deb Haaland, Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar, and Antonio Delgado. \n\nBy the end of November, eighteen Democratic members of Congress were co-sponsoring a proposed House Select Committee on a Green New Deal, and incoming representative Ayanna Pressley had announced her support. Organizations supporting a Green New Deal initiative included 350.org, Greenpeace, and Friends of the Earth. \n\nOpponents noted that the costs of a Green New Deal had not been fully determined, and that achieving 100% renewable energy might not be possible. \n\nPaul Bledsoe of the Progressive Policy Institute expressed concern that setting unrealistic \"aspirational\" goals of 100% renewable energy, as in the Ocasio-Cortez proposal, \"does a disservice to the real seriousness of climate change\", and could undermine \"the credibility of the effort.\" \n\nIncoming committee chairs Frank Pallone and Peter DeFazio indicated a preference for handling these matters in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. \n\nIn contrast, Representative Ro Kahanna thought that creating a Select Committee specifically dedicated to a Green New Deal would be a \"very commonsense idea\", based on the recent example of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming (2007-2011), which had proven effective in developing a 2009 bill for cap-and-trade legislation. \n\nSome developing countries have argued that a global Green New Deal may undermine national sovereignty regarding a country's control over its natural resources. Brazil, Mexico, and India have emphasized national sovereignty when discussing the Green New Deal, with India also expressing fears of a green \"economic straitjacket\". Bolivia, on its part, has argued that a Green New Deal may signal the \"privatization and commodification of nature\". China, while voicing some support for a Green New Deal, also pointed out that it may result in \"trade protectionism under the pretext of environmental protection\".\n\nIn the US, Robert Pollin characterized the concept of a \"Green New Deal\" as \"egalitarian green growth,\" indicating that the seriousness of concerns about climate is also giving rise to alternative Degrowth proposals to contract economies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3215718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3215718", "title": "Haringey Solidarity Group", "text": "Haringey Solidarity Group\n\nHaringey Solidarity Group or HSG is a collective of community activists based in the Borough of Haringey, London.\n\nHSG is active in a wide range of campaigns and struggles for social justice, workers' control, public services, civil liberties and a sustainable environment. It also aims to help to build stronger local communities. HSG supports workers' disputes (e.g. postal workers, tubeworkers, Visteon workers, council bin workers) and campaigns against council cuts, health cuts, the loss of local community facilities (e.g. a local park, a community pub), and on disability, environmental, housing and claimants' issues. HSG aims to resist state control by campaigning against ID cards, against racism, oppressive policing and deaths in police custody, and in support of asylum seekers and refugees. The group holds regular open meetings and discussion evenings, and produces leaflets, posters and booklets.\nHSG helps to set up and support similar groups in other London boroughs, under the name \"Radical London\", and wants to see ultimately a national network of such groups. The group aims to support local community struggles and hopes that other community groups will support them, this is the source of the word solidarity within their name. The group aims to practise, encourage and support self-organised struggles by ordinary people within Haringey, against bosses, local councils, or multi-national corporations.\n\nHSG was formed out of the remains of the Haringey Anti Poll Tax Union, after the poll tax was defeated. \"Originally set up to fight the poll tax, they decided to carry on after the tax was defeated.\" Initial hopes for several groups across the Borough proved to be unsustainable and after three years the groups were combined into one group. \"In April 1991 it held its first meeting as Haringey Solidarity Group and by January 1992 it had formed three separate groups around the borough in Tottenham, Green Lanes, and Wood Green. Not being able to sustain three separate groups it came back together as HSG in September 1994. \" In 2006 HSG set up the popular Haringey Independent Cinema (www.haringey.org.uk/hic). HSG has also put on events to bring other groups and the community together, such as Haringey Independence Day (www.haringey.org.uk/hid).\n\nMembers of HSG are active in their residents associations, anti-fascism, and Haringey Against ID, anti billboards, anti debt campaigns, and various other antis. HSG continues to encourage tenants and workers self organisation throughout the borough, and have supported various workers struggles in the Borough of Haringey and beyond, including the 1995 JJ Foods Strike. HSG members are also involved in organising free community festivals, the monthly Haringey Independent Cinema, and many other social events. Many of the people in HSG are involved with local resident, community and other campaigning groups around the borough. HSG regularly distributes thousands of copies of its free newsletter \"Totally Indypendent\". The group is non-hierarchical. All major decisions are made at monthly general meetings which are open to anyone. Subgroups are formed for specific tasks (e.g. a newsletter) or to campaign on a specific issue, and these too are open to new people.\n\n"}
{"id": "8067710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8067710", "title": "Head of mission", "text": "Head of mission\n\nIn diplomatic usage, head of mission (HOM) or chief of mission (COM) from the French \"chef de mission diplomatique\" (CMD) is the head of a diplomatic representation, such as an ambassador, high commissioner, nuncio, chargé d'affaires, permanent representative, and to a consul-general or consul. Depending on the context, it may also refer to the heads of certain international organizations' representative offices. Certain other titles or usages that would qualify as a head of mission or equivalent also exist. While they are primarily referred to by the other titles mentioned above, it is common for the diplomatic corps of several countries to use deputy head of mission or deputy chief of mission (DCM) as the primary title for the second in command of a diplomatic mission.\n\nIn diplomatic missions and foreign services where ambassadors may be political appointees rather than career diplomats, the deputy chief of mission may be the senior career foreign service professional and generally understood to be more than a \"deputy.\"\n\nHeads of offices of international organizations below this diplomatic rank who are that organization's senior official in country, such as a project manager, and of private sector organizations and firms are commonly called \"chiefs of party\" to distinguish them from \"chiefs of mission.\"\n\nChef de Mission is also the title of the team manager of a national delegation in major international multi-discipline sporting events, such as the Olympic Games.\n"}
{"id": "26976637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26976637", "title": "International concentration camp committees", "text": "International concentration camp committees\n\nInternational concentration camp committees are organizations composed of former inmates of the various Nazi concentration camps, formed at various times, primarily after the Second World War. Although most survivors have since died and those who are still alive are generally octogenarians, the committees are still active.\n\nDuring the Nazi era, there were active, underground resistance organizations at several of the camps, such as those at Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald and Dachau. After liberation, these groups became the foundation of post-war survivor organizations for their respective camps.\n\nThe concentration camp committees are international organizations because their members come from and live in many different countries. The purpose of the committees is to educate the world about what was done under the Third Reich regarding the arrest and deportation of religious, political and social groups considered \"undesirable\" by the National Socialists. They also serve to care for the survivors of Nazi brutality, and finally, the committees facilitate communication and cooperation among survivors.\n\nThe committees' efforts have resulted in the establishment of numerous camp memorials and commemorative events and displays.\n\nHeld under the auspices of the International Auschwitz Committee in Berlin, there was a meeting of the presidents of the international camp committees from January 24–27, 2009.\n\nA document was produced under the auspices of the International Auschwitz Committee that was signed by representatives of ten different Nazi concentration camps in Berlin on January 25, 2010. It refers to the pledge taken by survivors to work for peace and freedom, to remember the past and work to keep fascism from gaining ascendancy and noting the thinning ranks of their own members, it calls on young people to take up the work for future generations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10392004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10392004", "title": "July Theses", "text": "July Theses\n\nThe July Theses () is a name commonly given to a speech delivered by Romanian leader Nicolae Ceaușescu on July 6, 1971, before the Executive Committee of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR). Its full name was \"Propuneri de măsuri pentru îmbunătățirea activității politico-ideologice, de educare marxist-leninistă a membrilor de partid, a tuturor oamenilor muncii\" (\"Proposed measures for the improvement of political-ideological activity, of the Marxist-Leninist education of Party members, of all working people\"). This quasi-Maoist speech marked the beginning of a \"mini cultural revolution\" in Communist Romania, launching a Neo-Stalinist offensive against cultural autonomy, a return to the strict guidelines of socialist realism and attacks on non-compliant intellectuals. Strict ideological conformity in the humanities and social sciences was demanded. Competence and aesthetics were to be replaced by ideology; professionals were to be replaced by agitators; and culture was once again to become an instrument for communist propaganda.\n\nIn their final version of early November 1971, publicized as an official document of the PCR Plenum, the Theses carried the title: \"Expunere cu privire la programul PCR pentru îmbunătățirea activității ideologice, ridicarea nivelului general al cunoașterii și educația socialistă a maselor, pentru așezarea relațiilor din societatea noastră pe baza principiilor eticii și echității socialiste și comuniste\" (\"Exposition regarding the PCR programme for improving ideological activity, raising the general level of knowledge and the socialist education of the masses, in order to arrange relations in our society on the basis of the principles of socialist and communist ethics and equity\").\n\nAfter a period of rigid Stalinism from 1948, Romanian cultural life experienced a modest trend of liberalization and ideological relaxation in the early 1960s. This trend accelerated with the IXth Congress of the Romanian Communist Party in 1965. A talented oppositional generation of writers emerged: Nichita Stănescu, Ana Blandiana, Gabriel Liiceanu, Nicolae Manolescu, Adrian Păunescu, and others. Furthermore, at the April 1968 Central Committee plenum, Ceaușescu denounced his predecessor Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej and rehabilitated Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu, executed just two days before Ceaușescu joined the Politburo (thus allowing him to claim innocence and to demote a key rival, Alexandru Drăghici). This opened up even more space for artistic expression. Eugen Barbu's novel \"Principele\" (\"The Prince\", 1969), though set in the Phanariot era, clearly refers to Gheorghiu-Dej — there is even a project to build a canal that claims many of its builders' lives (a disguised reference to the Danube-Black Sea Canal). In Dumitru Radu Popescu's novel \"F\", abuses committed during collectivisation are explored. Augustin Buzura's novel \"Absenții\" (\"The Absent Ones\", 1970) went so far as to provide a critique of contemporary society, describing the spiritual crisis of a young doctor.\n\nTo be sure, censorship remained in place. Alexandru Ivasiuc and Paul Goma had both been imprisoned for their participation in the Bucharest student movement of 1956, and each wrote a novel about a man's prison experiences and efforts to readjust after his release. Goma's \"Ostinato\" describes prison life, Securitate methods and the excesses of collectivisation. The censor asked for changes; eventually Goma published the book uncut in West Germany in the fall of 1971. Ivasiuc, in his \"Păsările\" (\"The Birds\"), complied with the censor's demands by justifying the protagonist's arrest and portraying the secret police in a positive light. Nevertheless, most writers were optimistic that the Party would tolerate a broader range of themes in creative literature.\n\nA thaw in relations with the United States, chief adversary of the Communist bloc during the Cold War, also took place and brought with it an impact on citizens' lives. A Pepsi-Cola factory opened in Constanța in 1967, its product promoted in the press through American-style advertisements. The slogan \"Pepsi, drive and energy\" ran regularly in newspapers that just a few years earlier made no mention of Western products. Coca-Cola was not produced domestically, but could be found in bars and \"Comturist shops\", stores with a restricted clientele where Western goods could be purchased in hard currency. In 1968, the first student bar/club opened in Bucharest; a writer for \"Viața Studențească\" described \"low tables, discreet light... chewing gum and cigarettes, Pepsi and Coca-Cola, mechanical games, billiards... plus a few hours of interesting discussions. Here is why the club bar appears as an answer to a natural need for communication, for exchanging ideas and clashing opinions... in a relaxed atmosphere\". Modern American art, harshly criticised during the period of socialist realism, began to receive favourable coverage, as seen during an exhibition (\"American painting since 1945\") that opened in early 1969, featuring work by artists such as Jackson Pollock, Robert Rauschenberg and James Rosenquist. Even the US government received praise: President Richard Nixon's world tour of 1969 was closely followed, and the moon landing that July featured in advertisements, was broadcast live (in Eastern Europe, only Yugoslavia did so as well), and occasioned warm greetings from Ceaușescu to Nixon and the American people. Probably the high point of Romanian-American relations during the Communist period came early the following month, when tens of thousands of enthusiastic Bucharesters welcomed Nixon, who became the first US President to visit an Eastern Bloc country.\n\nWriting over three decades later, Sorin Preda, who arrived in Bucharest from Bacău as an 18-year-old in 1970, recalled the cultural scene:\n\nCeaușescu visited the People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam and Mongolia in 1971. He took great interest in the idea of total national transformation as embodied in the programs of the Workers' Party of Korea and China's Cultural Revolution. He was also inspired by the personality cults of China's Mao Zedong and North Korea's Kim Il-sung. Shortly after returning home, he began to emulate North Korea's system, influenced by Kim Il-sung's \"Juche\" philosophy.\n\nUpon his return, he issued the Theses, which contained seventeen proposals. Among these were: continuous growth in the \"leading role\" of the Party; improvement of Party education and of mass political action; youth participation on large construction projects as part of their \"patriotic work\" (\"muncă patriotică\"); an intensification of political-ideological education in schools and universities, as well as in children's, youth and student organisations (like the Union of Communist Youth and its affiliates); and an expansion of political propaganda, orienting radio and television shows to this end, as well as publishing houses, theatres and cinemas, opera, ballet, artists' unions, etc., promoting a \"militant, revolutionary\" character in artistic productions. The liberalisation of 1965 was condemned, and an Index of banned books and authors was re-established.\n\nAlthough presented in terms of \"Socialist Humanism\", the Theses in fact marked a return to socialist realism, reaffirming an ideological basis for literature that, in theory, the Party had hardly abandoned. The difference was the addition of Party-sponsored nationalism in historiography; quoting Nicolae Iorga in another speech in July 1971, Ceaușescu asserted that \"the man who does not write for his entire people is not a poet\", and presented himself as the defender of Romanian values (an intensification of the personality cult).\n\nEspecially after the Writers' Congress of 1968, Party leaders started to clash with writers; earlier that year Ceaușescu had announced: \"the freedom of the individual is not in contradiction with the general demands and interests of society but, on the contrary, serves these interests\". Ceaușescu managed to co-opt numerous intellectuals (many of them formerly apolitical or even oppositionist) and bring them into the Party after condemning the Warsaw Pact's invasion of Czechoslovakia, but still the Party began to intensify the struggle among writers as a group and between them and the Party. In 1970, awards of literary prizes brought the Party leadership into open conflict with the Writers' Union. This determined the Party to recover the privilege of granting such awards and of determining their standards of value.\n\nDespite these forebodings of conflict, the Theses, with their promise of Neo-Stalinism, came as a shock. The Party was supposed to supervise the Theses' implementation closely and meticulously, but it was unable to do so with the same efficacy as in the 1950s. In part, this was due to the artistic community, which was numbed by the proposals and roused into a temporary united front against them. Zaharia Stancu and Eugen Jebeleanu, long associated with the régime, joined in protest with younger writers like Buzura, Păunescu, Popescu and Marin Sorescu. Leonid Dimov and Dumitru Țepeneag denounced the proposals on Radio Free Europe in Paris, and Nicolae Breban, editor-in-chief of \"România Literară\", resigned while in West Germany and attacked the Theses in an interview with \"Le Monde\". Writers appeared combative at a meeting with Ceaușescu in Neptun.\n\nThe Party issued its own counter-measures. For instance, a law passed in December 1971 prohibited the broadcasting or publication abroad of any written material that might prejudice the interest of the state. Romanian citizens were also forbidden from having any contact with foreign radio stations or newspapers, as this was considered hostile to Romania. One man who had submitted a volume of poetry to a critic for evaluation was tried for having written \"hostile\" verse; despite the critic having come to defend him, a military court sentenced him to 12 years' imprisonment.\n\nHowever, in advance of the National Writers' Conference (May 1972), the writers' initial solidarity was destroyed by infighting, not by the Party (which temporarily withdrew into the background). After Ștefan Bănulescu resigned as editor of \"Luceafărul\", Păunescu fought with Fănuș Neagu for the position, which went to someone else, causing Neagu to leave the opposition. Initial supporters of the Theses included Eugen Barbu, Aurel Baranga and Mihnea Gheorghiu; Nichita Stănescu also claimed to have received them with \"a particular joy\" and to regard them as \"a real aid to culture\". Writers felt resentment at Goma's success in West Germany and at Țepeneag's having been translated into French; the Party exploited this by persuading the Writers' Union to hold its 1972 congress with delegates elected by secret ballot, not by a general assembly — delegates would choose one of two names offered to them. By the time of the July 1972 National Party Conference, the cultural élite's strategies and the conflicts that would dominate the 1970s and 1980s had crystallized. Dissident Monica Lovinescu describes four features of the literary scene in Romania until 1989: intermittent courage; position in the social order transformed into an aesthetic criterion; the efficacy of some means of corruption; and a breakdown between generations, with many young oppositionists ready to compromise and some older writers ready to resist.\n\nThe Party offered increased royalties and pensions and played upon writers' envy, which led to the exclusion of Goma and Țepeneag, who failed to be elected by secret ballot and were jeered when they spoke at the Union delegate election meeting before the conference; there, it was also established that Goma had no talent. While writers like Blandiana, Buzura, Ștefan Augustin Doinaș and Marin Sorescu refused to conform, maintaining moral and artistic integrity, Goma and Țepeneag were targeted for their readiness to challenge the Party's cultural dictates. Other writers were anxious not to jeopardise their privileges and afraid that the Party might use the Theses to bring new \"writers\" into a rebellious Union. They instead preferred subtle evasion of their constraints and so were reluctant to back the pair of more outspoken dissidents.\n\nWithin three years, the balance of power in the writers' community had shifted from the 1960s generation to the protochronists; writers eager for greater influence could now obtain it by specialising in the production of ideology. These included both figures on the decline who hoped to revive their careers, such as Barbu (whose career had suffered at the expense of oppositionists), and younger writers like Păunescu, an initial opponent. The two factions remained in open conflict for a decade, but by 1981 the Party had rendered the Union impotent by freezing its funds and restricting its activities — no more Writers' Conferences were allowed after that year. Instead, with the greater emphasis on ideology, force, and centralisation, and with more funds, the protochronists remained more influential until the Romanian Revolution of 1989, having been reinforced by the \"Mangalia Theses\" in the summer of 1982. Particularly in the 1980s, Romanian culture and science became increasingly isolated internationally.\n\nAlso as a result of the Theses, sociology was removed as a university discipline and what was left was taught at the Party's Ștefan Gheorghiu Academy. The number of those allowed to study non-technical subjects at the university was sharply cut; fewer books were published; and the privileges formerly accorded to intellectuals were reduced. In 1974, the Academy of Sciences was forced to take on Elena Ceaușescu as a member and then its head; she politicized it to such an extent that its prestige and much of its serious research were destroyed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1110906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110906", "title": "Left Youth Solid", "text": "Left Youth Solid\n\nThe Left Youth Solid (styled left youth ['solid]; ) is a political youth organisation in Germany. It is the official youth wing of the political party The Left. It was formed in 2007 as the legal successor to Solid: the socialist youth (['solid] – die sozialistische jugend) which was the unofficial youth wing of the Left Party and its predecessor PDS. The name \"solid\" comes from sozialistisch, links, demokratisch \"(socialist, left, democratic.)\"\n\n\"Solid: the socialist youth\" was formed in Hanover in June 1999 and was accepted by the Party of Democratic Socialism as a youth organisation \"close to PDS\" in March 2002. Membership is for people between the ages of 14 and 35 and in March 2005 they had 1,500 members.\n\nBefore 1999 the PDS's youth organisation was Arbeitsgemeinschaft Junge GenossInnen; since then, most young members of the Left-Party have concentrated within ['solid]. But due to differences, other young members formed the \"PDS Youth\", a youth organisation integrated within the party and by self-definition of the group serving to form future cadres for the full-fledged party. The PDS-youth is small compared to ['solid] and only represented in a small number of the federal States of Germany.\n\nOn Solid's federal delegate congress on 20 May 2007, the organisation reorganised to the present structure including the former PDS Youth and the youth organisation of WASG. This was a response to the fusion of the Left Party/PDS and WASG.\n\n"}
{"id": "1921534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921534", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Bangladesh", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Bangladesh\n\nThis is a list of 300 parliamentary constituencies currently represented in the Jatiya Sangsad, the unicameral national legislature of Bangladesh. Each constituency is represented by a single Member of Parliament. The Jatiya Sangsad of Bangladesh consists of 350 seats, of which 50 seats are reserved for women, who are elected by the 300 directly elected members on the basis of procedure of proportional representation in the Parliament through single transferable vote.\n\nThe Bangladesh Election Commission is made resposnsible to \"delimit the constituencies for the purpose of elections to Parliament\" by the Constitution of Bangladesh (chapter VII, article 119). It also says, \"There shall be one electoral roll for each constituency for the purposes of elections to Parliament, and no special electoral roll shall be prepared so as to classify electors according to religion, race caste or sex\" (article 121).\n\nThe current list, published by the Bangladesh Election Commission in 2013 as per the provisions of the Delimitation of Constituencies Ordinance, 1976 is as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "19457579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19457579", "title": "Marvin H. Scilken", "text": "Marvin H. Scilken\n\nMarvin Herman Scilken (December 7, 1926 – February 2, 1999) was an American librarian and a leader in the field of library science during the 20th century. Scilken dedicated his life to bringing awareness to libraries and improving services for patrons. He encouraged libraries to take a more practical approach to librarianship and to consider libraries as a house of books rather than information centers. In 1999, \"American Libraries\" named him one of the \"100 Most Important Leaders We Had in the 20th Century\".\n\nMarvin Scilken was born and raised in the Bronx, New York. His parents were Russian immigrants Joseph Scilken and Esther Scilken and he had one sister Marjorie. Scilken attended his local high school, Bronx High School of Science, and then continued his education at the University of Colorado-Boulder where he earned bachelor's degrees in Economics and Philosophy.\n\nWhen he graduated in 1948, he had not yet considered pursuing a career in library science. It was not until 1960 that library science piqued his interest. Scilken was originally interested in pursuing his Masters in Library Science degree at Columbia University. However, upon applying to Columbia’s program, he was asked for an essay on why he was interested in becoming a librarian and, as Scilken said, “I dawdled so much that time ran out and I failed to get in” As a result, he entered and graduated from Pratt Institute's School of Information and Library Science in Brooklyn instead.\n\nScilken’s career in library science began quickly. In 1964, only a few years after his graduation, he received a directorship at Orange Public Library in New Jersey where he remained until his retirement in 1993. Scilken served five consecutive terms on the American Library Association (ALA) Council, was a prolific writer of letters to the editor, founded his own practical library journal the \"U*N*A*B*A*S*H*E*D Librarian\", and achieved early fame for stopping the price fixing of library books.\n\nScilken died February 2, 1999, from a heart-attack while attending that year's American Library Association midwinter meeting.\n\nScilken’s passion for reading the \"New York Times\" led him to use newspapers as one of his largest platforms for library advocacy. He would write a letter to the editor for every newspaper he came across. Through these letters, Scilken sought to get people excited about their local libraries and encouraged libraries to better serve their patrons. Scilken’s letters were featured in large nationwide publications including \"Texas Highways\", \"American Airlines\", \"Smithsonian\", and \"Newsweek\". Although he wrote letters to papers across the country, many he wrote to his hometown paper the \"New York Times\".\n\nScilken’s advocacy through writing would later inspire him to create his own publication the \"U*N*A*B*A*S*H*E*D Librarian, the how I run my library good letter\". Choosing topics that focused on the practical parts of librarianship, the publication featured a collection of articles, cartoons, letters, and advice all dealing with the world of libraries. Advice was given on how to better improve library services including an assortment of topics from more traditional cataloguing techniques to more practical cleaning techniques.\n\nThe quarterly publication was started in 1971 and quickly became a family affair. His wife, Polly, assisted with the editing and publishing and her brother came up with the title and design. Her brother had been working as a designer at Harper and Row a publishing house that had printed Leo Rosten’s novel \"The Education of H*Y*M*A*N* K*A*P*L*A*N*\".\n\nThe \"U*N*A*B*A*S*H*E*D Librarian\" is still published today and, as in years past, librarians look to it as a forum for sharing ideas on how to “run a library good.”\n\nBesides his writings, he is perhaps best remembered for his appearance before the U.S. Senate’s Subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly. Although a new librarian at the time, Scilken discovered that publishers were charging the same price per a book no matter how many were purchased. He was infuriated that libraries were being forced to pay more while at the same time publishers were offering discounts to booksellers buying multiple copies. Unable to negotiate with the publishers, Scilken wrote letters to the Federal Trade Commission and to state and local politicians. The only responses came from New Jersey Senator Clifford Case and Senator Philip Hart, who was involved with the senate subcommittee. After indictments of a few publishing houses, a senatorial hearing was held. In the spring of 1966, publishers, Scilken, business men, and other librarians appeared before the subcommittee to give their testimony. In the end, it was found that publishers were in fact price fixing. Although not well covered by the press at the time, it changed the way libraries did business with publishers.\n\nOver $10 million was returned to libraries after various lawsuits stemming from the hearings.\n\nUnlike most librarians, Scilken always chose to refer to patrons as customers and often said that his motto is “The customer is king.” Libraries, according to Scilken, need to be aware of who their patrons are. He often encouraged public libraries to buy all of the bestsellers and not concern themselves with purchasing books that would generally only be found and used in academic libraries.\n\nScilken also encouraged libraries to employ ways which would foster the library customer’s curiosity and browsing experience. For example, he encouraged customers of his public library to leave notes in books as to whether they enjoyed it or not. This would aid other customers in their decision as to whether they should check-out the book. He felt that browsing was an important part of the library experience. He said, “Half the fun in a library is falling across the unexpected.” \n\nOne of Scilken’s great concerns was that libraries are forgetting their roots and their identities. It worried him that librarians are changing their identity in order to seem current with technology. He had become concerned that libraries and librarians are too quickly adopting any new fad or technology. Overall, he was disappointed that libraries are now considering themselves information centers. He encouraged libraries to return to their focus on books and often “[told his] colleagues that [libraries] are in the book business, not the information business.”\n\nRoy, L, & Cherian, A. (Eds.). (2002). \"Getting Libraries the Credit They Deserve: A Festschrift in Honor of Marvin H. Scilken.\" Oxford: Scarecrow Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "34548375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34548375", "title": "Masrena", "text": "Masrena\n\nMasrena (, meaning: Our Egypt) is a political pressure group, which works by the power of the people. Founded by (names written as found in their Facebook accounts): Khaled Mansour, Moataz A. Fattah, Shady Sherif, Wael Khalil, Mohammad Omar, Ziad Aly, Wael Ghonim, Mohamed Diab, Baraa Ashraf.\n\n"}
{"id": "35817064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35817064", "title": "Oil war", "text": "Oil war\n\nAn oil war is a conflict about petroleum resources, or their transportation, consumption, or regulation. The term may also refer generally to any conflict in a region that contains oil reserves or is geographically positioned in a location where an entity has or may wish to develop production or transportation infrastructure for petroleum products. It is also used to refer to any of a number of specific oil wars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5215704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5215704", "title": "Operation Demetrius", "text": "Operation Demetrius\n\nOperation Demetrius was a British Army operation in Northern Ireland on 9–10 August 1971, during the Troubles. It involved the mass arrest and internment (imprisonment without trial) of 342 people suspected of being involved with the Irish Republican Army (IRA), which was waging a campaign for a united Ireland against the British state. It was proposed by the Northern Ireland Government and approved by the British Government. Armed soldiers launched dawn raids throughout Northern Ireland, sparking four days of violence in which 20 civilians, two IRA members and two British soldiers were killed. All of those arrested were Irish nationalists, the vast majority of them Catholic. Due to faulty intelligence, many had no links with the IRA. Ulster loyalist paramilitaries were also carrying out acts of violence, which were mainly directed against Catholics and Irish nationalists, but no loyalists were included in the sweep.\n\nThe introduction of internment, the way the arrests were carried out, and the abuse of those arrested, led to mass protests and a sharp increase in violence. Amid the violence, about 7,000 people fled or were forced out of their homes. The interrogation techniques used on the internees were described by the European Commission of Human Rights in 1976 as torture, but the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ruled on appeal in 1978 that while the techniques were \"inhuman and degrading\", they did not constitute torture. It was later revealed that the British government had withheld information from the ECHR and that a policy of torture had in fact been authorized by British government ministers. In December 2014, the Irish government asked the ECHR to revise its 1978 judgement.\n\nThe policy of internment lasted until December 1975 and during that time 1,981 people were interned; 1,874 were nationalist, while 107 were loyalist. The first loyalist internees were detained in February 1973.\n\nInternment had been used a number of times during Northern Ireland's (and the Republic of Ireland's) history, but had not previously been used during the Troubles, which began in the late 1960s. Ulster loyalist paramilitaries, such as the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), had been engaged in a low-level violent campaign since 1966. After the August 1969 riots, the British Army was deployed on the streets to bolster the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC). Up until this point, the Irish Republican Army (IRA) had been largely inactive. However, as the violence and political situation worsened, the IRA was divided over how to deal with it. It split into two factions, the Provisional IRA and Official IRA. In 1970–71, the Provisionals began to retaliate against the British Army and the RUC. The Officials' policy was more defensive. During 1970–71, there were numerous clashes between state forces and the two wings of the IRA, between the IRAs and loyalists, and occasionally between the IRAs. Most loyalist attacks were directed against Catholic civilians, but they also clashed with state forces and the IRA on a number of occasions.\n\nThe idea of re-introducing internment for Irish republican militants came from the unionist government of Northern Ireland, headed by Prime Minister Brian Faulkner. It was agreed to re-introduce internment at a meeting between Faulkner and UK Prime Minister Edward Heath on 5 August 1971. The British cabinet recommended \"balancing action\", such as the arrest of loyalist militants, the calling in of weapons held by (generally unionist) rifle clubs in Northern Ireland and an indefinite ban on parades (most of which were held by unionist/loyalist groups). However, Faulkner argued that a ban on parades was unworkable, that the rifle clubs posed no security risk and that there was no evidence of loyalist terrorism. It was eventually agreed that there would be a six-month ban on parades but no interning of loyalists and that internment would go ahead on 9 August, in an operation carried out by the British Army.\n\nOn the initial list of those to be arrested, which was drawn up by RUC Special Branch and MI5, there were 450 names, but only 350 of these were found. Key figures on the list, and many who never appeared on them, had got wind of the swoop before it began. The list included leaders of the non-violent Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association such as Ivan Barr and Michael Farrell. But, Tim Pat Coogan noted:What they did not include was a single Loyalist. Although the UVF had begun the killing and bombing, this organisation was left untouched, as were other violent Loyalist satellite organisations such as Tara, the Shankill Defence Association and the Ulster Protestant Volunteers. Faulkner was urged by the British to include a few Protestants in the trawl but, apart from two republicans, he refused.\n\nIn a subsequent case brought to the European Commission of Human Rights by the Irish government against the government of the United Kingdom, it was conceded that \"Operation Demetrius\" was planned and implemented from the highest levels of the British government and that specially trained personnel were sent to Northern Ireland to familiarize the local forces in what became known as the 'five techniques', methods of interrogation described by opponents as \"a euphemism for torture\".\n\nThe internments were initially carried out under Regulations 11 and 12 of 1956 and Regulation 10 of 1957 (the Special Powers Regulations), made under the authority of the Special Powers Act. The Detention of Terrorists Order of 7 November 1972, made under the authority of the Temporary Provisions Act, was used after direct rule was instituted.\n\nInternees arrested without trial pursuant to Operation Demetrius could not complain to the European Commission of Human Rights about breaches of Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) because on 27 June 1957, the UK lodged a notice with the Council of Europe declaring that there was a \"public emergency within the meaning of Article 15(1) of the Convention.\"\n\nOperation Demetrius began on Monday 9 August at about 4 am and progressed in two parts:\n\nIn the first wave of raids across Northern Ireland, 342 people were arrested. Many of those arrested reported that they and their families were assaulted, verbally abused and threatened by the soldiers. There were claims of soldiers smashing their way into houses without warning and firing baton rounds through doors and windows. Many of those arrested also reported being ill-treated during their three-day detention at the holding centres. They complained of being beaten, verbally abused, threatened, harassed by dogs, denied sleep, and starved. Some reported being forced to run a gauntlet of baton-wielding soldiers, being forced to run an 'obstacle course', having their heads forcefully shaved, being kept naked, being burnt with cigarettes, having a sack placed over their heads for long periods, having a rope kept around their necks, having the barrel of a gun pressed against their heads, being dragged by the hair, being trailed behind armoured vehicles while barefoot, and being tied to armoured trucks as a human shield. Some were hooded, beaten and then thrown from a helicopter. They were told they were hundreds of feet in the air, but were actually only a few feet from the ground.\n\nThe operation sparked an immediate upsurge of violence, the worst since the August 1969 riots. The British Army came under sustained attack from Irish nationalist rioters and gunmen, especially in Belfast. According to journalist Kevin Myers: \"Insanity seized the city. Hundreds of vehicles were hijacked and factories were burnt. Loyalist and IRA gunmen were everywhere\". People blocked roads and streets with burning barricades to stop the British Army entering their neighbourhoods. In Derry, barricades were again erected around Free Derry and \"for the next 11 months these areas effectively seceded from British control\". Between 9 and 11 August, 24 people were killed or fatally wounded: 20 civilians (14 Catholics, 6 Protestants), two members of the Provisional IRA (shot dead by the British Army), and two members of the British Army (shot dead by the Provisional IRA).\n\nOf the civilians killed, 17 were killed by the British Army and the other three were killed by unknown attackers. In West Belfast's Ballymurphy housing estate, 11 Catholic civilians were killed by 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment between 9 and 11 August in an episode that has become known as the Ballymurphy Massacre. Another flashpoint was Ardoyne in North Belfast, where soldiers shot dead three people on 9 August. Many Protestant families fled Ardoyne and about 200 burnt their homes as they left, lest they \"fall into Catholic hands\". Protestant and Catholic families fled \"to either side of a dividing line, which would provide the foundation for the permanent peaceline later built in the area\". Catholic homes were burnt in Ardoyne and elsewhere too. About 7,000 people, most of them Catholics, were left homeless. About 2,500 Catholic refugees fled south of the border, where new refugee camps were set up.\n\nBy 13 August, media reports indicated that the violence had begun to wane, seemingly due to exhaustion on the part of the IRA and security forces. On 15 August, the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) announced that it was starting a campaign of civil disobedience in response to the introduction of internment. By 17 October, it was estimated that about 16,000 households were withholding rent and rates for council houses as part of the campaign of civil disobedience.\n\nOn 16 August, over 8,000 workers went on strike in Derry in protest at internment. Joe Cahill, then Chief of Staff of the Provisional IRA, held a press conference during which he claimed that only 30 Provisional IRA members had been interned.\n\nOn 22 August, in protest against internment, about 130 non-unionist councillors announced that they would no longer sit on district councils. The SDLP also withdrew its representatives from a number of public bodies. On 19 October, five Northern Ireland Members of Parliament (MPs) began a 48-hour hunger strike against internment. The protest took place near 10 Downing Street in London. Among those taking part were John Hume, Austin Currie, and Bernadette Devlin. Protests would continue until internment was ended in December 1975.\n\nThe backlash against internment contributed to the decision of the British Government under Prime Minister Edward Heath to suspend the Northern Ireland Government and replace it with direct rule from Westminster, under the authority of a British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. This took place in 1972.\n\nFollowing the suspension of the Northern Ireland Government and Parliament, internment was continued by the direct rule administration until 5 December 1975. During this time a total of 1,981 people were interned: 1,874 were from an Irish nationalist background, while 107 were from a unionist background.\n\nHistorians generally view the period of internment as inflaming sectarian tensions in Northern Ireland, while failing in its goal of arresting key members of the IRA. Many of the people arrested had no links whatsoever with the IRA, but their names appeared on the list of those to be arrested through bungling and incompetence. The list's lack of reliability and the arrests that followed, complemented by reports of internees being abused far in excess of the usual state violence, led to more nationalists identifying with the IRA and losing hope in non-violent methods. After Operation Demetrius, recruits came forward in huge numbers to join the Provisional and Official wings of the IRA. Internment also led to a sharp increase in violence. In the eight months before the operation, there were 34 conflict-related deaths in Northern Ireland. In the four months following it, 140 were killed. A serving officer of the British Royal Marines declared:It (internment) has, in fact, increased terrorist activity, perhaps boosted IRA recruitment, polarised further the Catholic and Protestant communities and reduced the ranks of the much needed Catholic moderates.\n\nIn terms of loss of life, 1972 was the most violent year of the Troubles. The fatal march on Bloody Sunday (30 January 1972) in Derry, when 14 unarmed civil rights protesters were shot dead by British paratroopers, was an anti-internment march.\n\nAll of those arrested were interrogated by the British Army and RUC. However, twelve internees were then chosen for further \"deep interrogation\", using sensory deprivation. This took place at a secret interrogation centre, which was later revealed to be Shackleton Barracks, outside Ballykelly. In October, a further two internees were chosen for deep interrogation. These fourteen became known as \"the Hooded Men\", or \"the Guineapigs\". \n\nAfter undergoing the same treatment as the other internees, the men were hooded, handcuffed and flown to the base by helicopter. On the way, soldiers severely beat them and threatened to throw them from the helicopter. When they arrived they were stripped naked, photographed, and examined by a doctor.\n\nFor seven days, when not being interrogated, they were kept hooded and handcuffed in a cold cell and subjected to a continuous loud hissing noise. Here they were forced to stand in a stress position for many hours and were repeatedly beaten on all parts of their body. They were deprived of sleep, food and drink. Some of them also reported being kicked in the genitals, having their heads banged against walls, being shot at with blank rounds, and being threatened with injections. The result was severe physical and mental exhaustion, severe anxiety, depression, hallucinations, disorientation and repeated loss of consciousness.\n\nThe interrogation methods used on the men became known as the 'five techniques'. Training and advice regarding the five techniques came from senior intelligence officials in the British government. The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) defined the five techniques as follows:\nThe fourteen Hooded Men were the only internees subjected to the full five techniques. However, over the following months, some internees were subjected to at least one of the five techniques, as well as other interrogation methods. These allegedly included waterboarding, electric shocks, burning with matches and candles, forcing internees to stand over hot electric fires while beating them, beating and squeezing of the genitals, inserting objects into the anus, injections, whipping the soles of the feet, and psychological abuse such as Russian roulette.\n\nWhen the interrogation techniques used on the internees became known to the public, there was outrage at the British government, especially from Irish nationalists. In answer to the anger from the public and Members of Parliament, on 16 November 1971, the British government commissioned a committee of inquiry chaired by Lord Parker (the Lord Chief Justice of England) to look into the legal and moral aspects of the 'five techniques'.\n\nThe \"Parker Report\" was published on 2 March 1972 and found the five techniques to be illegal under domestic law:\nOn the same day (2 March 1972), United Kingdom Prime Minister Edward Heath stated in the House of Commons: \nAs foreshadowed in the Prime Minister's statement, directives expressly forbidding the use of the techniques, whether alone or together, were then issued to the security forces by the government. While these are still legally in force and the use of such methods by UK security forces is not officially condoned by the government, the five techniques were still being used by the British Army in 2003.\n\nThe Irish Government, on behalf of the men who had been subject to the five techniques, took a case to the European Commission on Human Rights (\"Ireland v. United Kingdom\", 1976 Y.B. Eur. Conv. on Hum. Rts. 512, 748, 788–94 (Eur. Comm’n of Hum. Rts.)). The Commission stated that it\nThe Commissions findings were appealed. In 1978, in the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) trial \"Ireland v. the United Kingdom\" (Case No. 5310/71), the court ruled:\nOn 8 February 1977, in proceedings before the ECHR, and in line with the findings of the Parker Report and UK Government policy, the Attorney-General of the United Kingdom stated:\nIn 2013, declassified documents revealed the existence of the interrogation centre at Ballykelly. It had not been mentioned in any of the inquiries. Human rights group the Pat Finucane Centre accused the British Government of deliberately hiding it from the inquiries and the European Court of Human Rights. In June 2014, an RTÉ documentary entitled \"The Torture Files\" uncovered a letter from the UK Home Secretary Merlyn Rees in 1977 to the then British Prime Minister James Callaghan. It confirmed that a policy of 'torture' had in fact been authorized by the British Government's ministers—specifically the Secretary for Defence Peter Carrington—in 1971, contrary to the knowledge of the Irish government or the ECHR. The letter states: \"It is my view (confirmed by Brian Faulkner before his death) that the decision to use methods of torture in Northern Ireland in 1971/72 was taken by ministers – in particular Lord Carrington, then secretary of state for defence\".\n\nFollowing the 2014 revelations, the President of Sinn Féin, Gerry Adams, called on the Irish government to bring the case back to the ECHR because the British government, he said, \"lied to the European Court of Human Rights both on the severity of the methods used on the men, their long term physical and psychological consequences, on where these interrogations took place and who gave the political authority and clearance for it\". On 2 December 2014, the Irish government announced that, having reviewed the new evidence and following requests from the survivors, it had decided to officially ask the ECHR to revise its 1978 judgement.\n"}
{"id": "66856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66856", "title": "Operation Entebbe", "text": "Operation Entebbe\n\nOperation Entebbe, or Operation Thunderbolt, was a successful counter-terrorist hostage-rescue mission carried out by commandos of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) at Entebbe Airport in Uganda on 4 July 1976.\n\nA week earlier, on 27 June, an Air France plane with 248 passengers had been hijacked by two members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – External Operations (PFLP-EO) under orders of Wadie Haddad (who had earlier broken away from the PFLP of George Habash), and two members of the German Revolutionary Cells. The hijackers had the stated objective to free 40 Palestinian and affiliated militants imprisoned in Israel and 13 prisoners in four other countries in exchange for the hostages. The flight, which had originated in Tel Aviv with the destination of Paris, was diverted after a stopover in Athens via Benghazi to Entebbe, the main airport of Uganda. The Ugandan government supported the hijackers, and dictator Idi Amin personally welcomed them. Amin had been informed of the hijacking from the beginning. After moving all hostages from the aircraft to a disused airport building, the hijackers separated all Israelis and several non-Israeli Jews from the larger group and forced them into a separate room. Over the following two days, 148 non-Israeli hostages were released and flown out to Paris. Ninety-four, mainly Israeli, passengers along with the 12-member Air France crew, remained as hostages and were threatened with death.\n\nThe IDF acted on information provided by the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad. The hijackers threatened to kill the hostages if their prisoner release demands were not met. This threat led to the planning of the rescue operation. These plans included preparation for armed resistance from Ugandan troops.\n\nThe operation took place at night. Israeli transport planes carried 100 commandos over to Uganda for the rescue operation. The operation, which took a week of planning, lasted 90 minutes. Of the 106 remaining hostages, 102 were rescued and three were killed. The other hostage was in a hospital and was later killed. Five Israeli commandos were wounded and one, unit commander Lt. Col. Yonatan Netanyahu, was killed. Netanyahu was the older brother of Benjamin Netanyahu, the current Prime Minister of Israel.\n. All the hijackers and forty-five Ugandan soldiers were killed, and eleven Soviet-built MiG-17s and MiG-21s of Uganda's air force were destroyed. Kenyan sources supported Israel, and in the aftermath of the operation, Idi Amin issued orders to retaliate and slaughter several hundred Kenyans then present in Uganda. There were 245 Kenyans in Uganda killed and 3,000 fled.\n\nOperation Entebbe, which had the military codename Operation Thunderbolt, is sometimes referred to retroactively as Operation Jonathan in memory of the unit's leader, Yonatan Netanyahu.\n\nOn 27 June 1976, Air France Flight 139, an Airbus A300B4-203, registration (c/n 019), departed from Tel Aviv, Israel, carrying 246 mainly Jewish and Israeli passengers and a crew of 12. The plane flew to Athens, Greece, where it picked up an additional 58 passengers, including four hijackers. It departed for Paris at 12:30 pm. Just after takeoff, the flight was hijacked by two Palestinians from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – External Operations (PFLP-EO), and by two Germans, Wilfried Böse and Brigitte Kuhlmann, from the German Revolutionary Cells. The hijackers diverted the flight to Benghazi, Libya. There it was held on the ground for seven hours for refuelling. During that time the hijackers released British-born Israeli citizen Patricia Martell who pretended to have a miscarriage. The plane left Benghazi and at 3:15 pm on the 28th, more than 24 hours after the flight's original departure, it arrived at Entebbe Airport in Uganda.\n\nAt Entebbe, the four hijackers were joined by at least four others, supported by the forces of Uganda's President, Idi Amin. The hijackers transferred the passengers to the transit hall of the disused former airport terminal where they kept them under guard for the following days. Amin came to visit the hostages almost on a daily basis, updating them on developments and promising to use his efforts to have them freed through negotiations.\n\nOn 28 June, a PFLP-EO hijacker issued a declaration and formulated their demands: In addition to a ransom of $5 million USD for the release of the airplane, they demanded the release of 53 Palestinian and Pro-Palestinian militants, 40 of whom were prisoners in Israel. They threatened that if these demands were not met, they would begin to kill hostages on 1 July 1976.\n\nOn 29 June, after Ugandan soldiers had opened an entrance to a room next to the crowded waiting hall by destroying a separating wall, the hijackers separated the Israelis (including those holding dual citizenship) from the other hostages and told them to move to the adjoining room. As they did so, a Holocaust survivor showed hijacker Wilfried Böse a camp registration number tattooed on his arm. Böse protested \"I'm no Nazi! ... I am an idealist\". In addition, five non-Israeli hostages – two ultra-orthodox Jewish couples from the US and Belgium and a French resident of Israel – were forced to join the Israeli group. According to Monique Epstein Khalepski, the French hostage among the five, the captors had singled them out for questioning and suspected them of hiding their Israeli identities. On the other hand, according to French hostage Michel Cojot-Goldberg, the captors failed to identify at least one Israeli among the passengers who was a military officer with dual citizenship then using his non-Israeli passport and he was later freed as part of the second release of non-Israeli hostages. US citizen Janet Almog, Frenchwoman Jocelyne Monier (whose husband or boyfriend was Israeli), and French-Israeli dual citizen Jean-Jacques Mimouni, whose name had not been called up during the reading of the original passport-based list, reportedly joined the Israeli hostage group by their own choice.\n\nOn 30 June, the hijackers released 48 hostages. The released were picked from among the non-Israeli group – mainly elderly and sick passengers and mothers with children. Forty-seven of them were flown to Paris, and one passenger was treated in hospital for a day. On 1 July, after the Israeli government had conveyed its agreement to negotiations, the hostage-takers extended their deadline to noon on 4 July and released another group of 100 non-Israeli captives who again were flown to Paris a few hours later. Among the 106 hostages staying behind with their captors at Entebbe airport were the 12 members of the Air France crew who refused to leave, about ten young French passengers, and the Israeli group of some 84 people.\n\nIn the week before the raid, Israel tried using political avenues to obtain the release of the hostages. Many sources indicate that the Israeli cabinet was prepared to release Palestinian prisoners if a military solution seemed unlikely to succeed. A retired IDF officer, Baruch \"Burka\" Bar-Lev, had known Idi Amin for many years and was considered to have a strong personal relationship with him. At the request of the cabinet, he spoke with Amin on the phone many times, trying to gain the release of the hostages, without success. The Israeli government also approached the United States government to deliver a message to Egyptian president Anwar Sadat, asking him to request that Amin release the hostages. Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and defence minister Shimon Peres spent one week disagreeing on whether to give in to the hijackers' demands (Rabin's position) or not, to prevent more terrorism (Peres' position).\n\nAt the 1 July deadline, the Israeli cabinet offered to negotiate with the hijackers to extend the deadline to 4 July. Amin also asked them to extend the deadline until that date. This meant he could take a diplomatic trip to Port Louis, Mauritius, to officially hand over chairmanship of the Organisation of African Unity to Seewoosagur Ramgoolam. This extension of the hostage deadline proved crucial to providing Israeli forces enough time to get to Entebbe.\n\nOn 3 July, at 18:30, the Israeli cabinet approved a rescue mission, presented by Major General Yekutiel \"Kuti\" Adam and Brig. Gen. Dan Shomron. Shomron was appointed as the operation commander.\n\nAs the crisis unfolded, attempts were made to negotiate the release of the hostages. According to declassified diplomatic documents, the Egyptian government under Sadat tried to negotiate with both the PLO and the Ugandan government. PLO chairman Yasser Arafat sent his political aide Hani al-Hassan to Uganda as a special envoy to negotiate with the hostage takers and with Amin. However, the PFLP-EO hijackers refused to see him.\n\nWhen Israeli authorities failed to negotiate a political solution, they decided that their only option was an attack to rescue the hostages. Lt. Col. Joshua Shani, lead pilot of the operation, later said that the Israelis had initially conceived of a rescue plan that involved dropping naval commandos into Lake Victoria. The commandos would have ridden rubber boats to the airport located on the edge of the lake. They planned to kill the hijackers and after freeing the hostages, they would ask Amin for passage home. The Israelis abandoned this plan because they lacked the necessary time and also because they had received word that Lake Victoria was inhabited by the Nile crocodile.\n\nAmnon Biran, the mission's intelligence officer, later stated that the proper layout of the airport was unknown, also the exact location of the hostages and whether the building had been prepared with explosives.\n\nWhile planning the raid, the Israeli forces had to plan how to refuel the Lockheed C-130 Hercules aircraft they intended to use while en route to Entebbe. The Israelis lacked the logistical capacity to aerially refuel four to six aircraft so far from Israeli airspace. While several East African nations, including the logistically preferred choice Kenya, were sympathetic, none wished to incur the wrath of Amin or the Palestinians by allowing the Israelis to land their aircraft within their borders.\n\nThe raid could not proceed without assistance from at least one East African government. The Jewish owner of the Block hotels chain in Kenya, along with other members of the Jewish and Israeli community in Nairobi, may have used their political and economic influence to help persuade Kenya's President Jomo Kenyatta to help Israel. The Israeli government secured permission from Kenya for the IDF task force to cross Kenyan airspace and refuel at what is today Jomo Kenyatta International Airport.\n\nKenyan Minister of Agriculture Bruce MacKenzie persuaded Kenyan President Kenyatta to permit Mossad to collect intelligence prior to the operation, and to allow the Israeli Air Force access to the Nairobi airport. In retaliation, Ugandan President Idi Amin ordered Ugandan agents to assassinate MacKenzie. He was killed on 24 May 1978 when a bomb attached to his aircraft exploded. Later, Mossad Chief Director Meir Amit had a forest planted in Israel in MacKenzie's name.\n\nThe Mossad built an accurate picture of the whereabouts of the hostages, the number of hijackers, and the involvement of Ugandan troops from the released hostages in Paris. Additionally, Israeli firms were involved in building projects in Africa during the 1960s and 1970s and while preparing the raid the Israeli army consulted with Solel Boneh, a large Israeli construction company that had built the terminal where the hostages were held. While planning the military operation the IDF erected a partial replica of the airport terminal with the assistance of civilians who had helped build the original.\n\nMuki Betser said in a later interview that Mossad operatives extensively interviewed the hostages who had been released. He said that a French-Jewish passenger who had a military background and \"a phenomenal memory\" provided detailed information about the number of weapons carried by the hostage-takers. After Betzer collected intelligence and planned for several days, four Israeli Air Force C-130 Hercules transport aircraft secretly flew to Entebbe Airport at midnight without being detected by Entebbe air traffic control.\n\nThe Israeli ground task force numbered approximately 100 personnel, and comprised the following:\n\nTaking off from Sharm el-Sheikh, the task force flew along the international flight path over the Red Sea, mostly flying at a height of no more than 30 m (100 ft) to avoid radar detection by Egyptian, Sudanese, and Saudi Arabian forces. Near the south outlet of the Red Sea the C-130s turned south and passed south of Djibouti. From there, they went to a point northeast of Nairobi, Kenya, likely across Somalia and the Ogaden area of Ethiopia. They turned west, passing through the African Rift Valley and over Lake Victoria.\n\nTwo Boeing 707 jets followed the cargo planes. The first Boeing contained medical facilities and landed at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya. The commander of the operation, General Yekutiel Adam, was on board the second Boeing, which circled over Entebbe Airport during the raid.\n\nThe Israeli forces landed at Entebbe on 3 July at 23:00 IST, with their cargo bay doors already open. Because the proper layout of the airport was not known, the first plane almost taxied into a ditch. A black Mercedes car that looked like President Idi Amin's vehicle and Land Rovers that usually accompanied Amin's Mercedes were brought along. The Israelis hoped they could use them to bypass security checkpoints. When the C-130s landed, Israeli assault team members drove the vehicles to the terminal building in the same fashion as Amin. As they approached the terminal, two Ugandan sentries, aware that Idi Amin had recently purchased a white Mercedes, ordered the vehicles to stop. Netanyahu ordered the commandos to shoot the sentries using silenced pistols, but they did not kill them. This was against the plan and against the orders. As they pulled away, an Israeli commando in one of the following Land Rovers killed them with an unsuppressed rifle. Fearing the hijackers would be alerted prematurely, the assault team quickly approached the terminal.\n\nThe Israelis left their vehicles and ran towards the terminal. The hostages were in the main hall of the airport building, directly adjacent to the runway. Entering the terminal, the commandos shouted through a megaphone, \"Stay down! Stay down! We are Israeli soldiers,\" in both Hebrew and English. Jean-Jacques Maimoni, a 19-year-old French immigrant to Israel, stood up and was killed when Israeli company commander Muki Betzer and another soldier mistook him for a hijacker and fired at him. Another hostage, Pasco Cohen, 52, was also fatally wounded by gunfire from the commandos. In addition, a third hostage, 56-year-old Ida Borochovitch, a Russian Jew who had emigrated to Israel, was killed by a hijacker in the crossfire.\n\nAccording to hostage Ilan Hartuv, Wilfried Böse was the only hijacker who, after the operation began, entered the hall housing the hostages. At first he pointed his Kalashnikov rifle at hostages, but \"immediately came to his senses\" and ordered them to find shelter in the restroom, before being killed by the commandos. According to Hartuv, Böse fired only at Israeli soldiers and not at hostages.\n\nAt one point, an Israeli commando called out in Hebrew, \"Where are the rest of them?\" referring to the hijackers. The hostages pointed to a connecting door of the airport's main hall, into which the commandos threw several hand grenades. Then, they entered the room and shot dead the three remaining hijackers, ending the assault. Meanwhile, the other three C-130 Hercules aeroplanes had landed and unloaded armoured personnel carriers to provide defence during the anticipated hour of refuelling. The Israelis then destroyed Ugandan MiG fighter planes to prevent them from pursuing, and conducted a sweep of the airfield to gather intelligence.\n\nAfter the raid, the Israeli assault team returned to their aircraft and began loading the hostages. Ugandan soldiers shot at them in the process. The Israeli commandos returned fire with their AK47s, inflicting casualties on the Ugandans. During this brief but intense firefight, Ugandan soldiers fired from the airport control tower. At least five commandos were wounded, and the Israeli unit commander Yonatan Netanyahu was killed. Israeli commandos fired light machine guns and a rocket-propelled grenade back at the control tower, suppressing the Ugandans' fire. According to one of Idi Amin's sons, the soldier who shot Netanyahu, a cousin of the Amin family, was killed in the return fire. The Israelis finished evacuating the hostages, loaded Netanyahu's body into one of the planes, and left the airport. The entire operation lasted 53 minutes – of which the assault lasted only 30 minutes. All 7 hijackers present, and between 33 and 45 Ugandan soldiers, were killed. Eleven Soviet-built MiG-17 and MiG-21 fighter planes of the Ugandan Air Force were destroyed on the ground at Entebbe Airport. Out of the 106 hostages, 3 were killed, 1 was left in Uganda (74-year-old Dora Bloch), and approximately 10 were wounded. The 102 rescued hostages were flown to Israel via Nairobi, Kenya, shortly after the raid.\n\nDora Bloch, a 74-year-old Israeli who also held British citizenship, was taken to Mulago Hospital in Kampala after choking on a chicken bone. After the raid she was murdered by officers of the Ugandan army, as were some of her doctors and nurses, apparently for trying to intervene. In April 1987, Henry Kyemba, Uganda's Attorney general and Minister of Justice at the time, told the Uganda Human Rights Commission that Bloch had been dragged from her hospital bed and killed by two army officers on Amin's orders. Bloch was shot and her body was dumped in the trunk of a car that had Ugandan intelligence services number plates. Her remains were recovered near a sugar plantation 20 miles (32 km) east of Kampala in 1979, after the Ugandan–Tanzanian War ended Amin's rule. Amin also ordered the killing of hundreds of Kenyans living in Uganda in retaliation for Kenya's assistance to Israel in the raid. There were 245 Kenyans killed as reported on 11 July, including airport staff at Entebbe, and to escape being massacred, about 3,000 Kenyans fled from Uganda as refugees.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council convened on 9 July 1976, to consider a complaint from the Chairman of the Organization of African Unity charging Israel with an \"act of aggression\". The Council allowed Israel's ambassador to the United Nations, Chaim Herzog, and Uganda's foreign minister, Juma Oris Abdalla, to participate without voting rights. UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim told the Security Council that the raid was \"a serious violation of the sovereignty of a Member State of the United Nations\" though he was \"fully aware that this is not the only element involved ... when the world community is now required to deal with unprecedented problems arising from international terrorism.\" Abdalla, the representative of Uganda, alleged that the affair was close to a peaceful resolution when Israel intervened while Herzog, the representative of Israel, accused Uganda of direct complicity in the hijacking. The US and UK sponsored a resolution which condemned hijacking and similar acts, deplored the loss of life arising from the hijacking (without condemning either Israel or Uganda), reaffirmed the need to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all States, and called on the international community to enhance the safety of civil aviation. However, the resolution failed to receive the required number of affirmative votes because two voting members abstained and seven were absent. A second resolution sponsored by Benin, Libya and Tanzania, that condemned Israel, was not put to the vote.\n\nWestern nations spoke in support of the raid. West Germany called the raid \"an act of self-defence\". Switzerland and France praised the operation. Representatives of the United Kingdom and United States offered significant praise, calling the Entebbe raid \"an impossible operation\". Some in the United States noted that the hostages were freed on 4 July 1976, 200 years after the signing of the US declaration of independence. In private conversation with Israeli Ambassador Dinitz, Henry Kissinger sounded criticism for Israeli use of US equipment during the operation, but that criticism was not made public at the time. In mid-July 1976, the supercarrier and her escorts entered the Indian Ocean and operated off the Kenyan coast in response to a threat of military action by forces from Uganda.\n\nCaptain Bacos was awarded the Legion of Honour, and the other crew members were awarded the French Order of Merit.\n\nThe Norfolk hotel in Nairobi, owned by a prominent member of the local Jewish community, was bombed on 31 December 1980. The bomb flattened the western wing of the hotel, killing 20 people, of several nationalities, and wounding 87 more. It was believed to be an act of revenge by pro-Palestinian militants for Kenya's supporting role in Operation Entebbe.\n\nIn the ensuing years, Betser and the Netanyahu brothers – Iddo and Benjamin, all Sayeret Matkal veterans – argued in increasingly public forums about who was to blame for the unexpected early firefight that caused Yonatan's death and partial loss of tactical surprise.\n\nAs a result of the operation, the United States military developed rescue teams modelled on the unit employed in the Entebbe rescue. One notable attempt to imitate it was Operation Eagle Claw, a failed rescue of 53 American embassy personnel held hostage in Tehran during the Iran hostage crisis.\n\nIn a letter dated 13 July 1976, the Supreme Commander's Staff of the Imperial Iranian Armed Forces praised the Israeli commandos for the mission and extended condolences for \"the loss and martyrdom\" of Netanyahu.\n\nIdi Amin was deposed as Uganda's dictator in 1979, less than three years after the operation.\n\nIn August 2012, Uganda and Israel commemorated the raid at a sombre ceremony at the base of a tower at the Old Entebbe Airport, where Yonatan Netanyahu was killed. Uganda and Israel renewed their commitment to \"fight terrorism and to work towards humanity\". In addition, wreaths were laid, a moment of silence was held, speeches were given, and a poem was recited. The flags of Uganda and Israel waved side by side, demonstrating the two countries' strong bilateral relations, next to a plaque bearing a history of the raid. The ceremony was attended by Ugandan State Minister for Animal Industry Bright Rwamirama and the deputy Foreign Affairs Minister of Israel Daniel Ayalon, who laid wreaths at the site. Forty years to the day after the rescue operation, Israeli Prime-Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and brother of the slain Israeli Sayeret Matkal commando, Yoni Netanyahu, visited Entebbe with an Israeli delegation, and laid the groundwork for further Israeli–sub-Saharan African bilateral relations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1612348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612348", "title": "Peace pole", "text": "Peace pole\n\nA Peace Pole is a monument that displays the message \"May Peace Prevail on Earth” in the language of the country where it has been placed, and usually 3 to 13 additional translations. The message often is referred to as a peace prayer, but sometimes it is not in order to avoid peace poles from being regarded as religious objects that violate zoning restrictions. A Quaker group in New York City ran into that problem year after year and never got permission to plant a peace pole in a park. At least one site refers to the phrase only as a Peace Message in order for there to be a reference to point to in such cases.\n\nThe idea of Peace Poles was first thought up by Masahisa Goi in 1955 in Japan. The Peace Pole Project today is promoted by The World Peace Prayer Society as well as other groups and individuals. The first Peace Poles outside Japan were constructed in 1983. Since then, more than 200,000 have been placed around the world in close to 200 countries.\n\nPeace Poles are made of many materials; most are made of wood, while others are made of limestone, copper, plastic or stainless steel. The text might be painted, carved, etched, welded, pasted, or riveted on, or it might simply be a plastic plaque attached with screws. In other cases, it is the careful work of an artist or sculptor.\n\nPeace Poles have been placed in such notable locations as the North Magnetic Pole, the Hiroshima Peace Memorial, the site of the Egyptian Pyramids in Giza, and the Aiki Shrine in Iwama, Japan. Peace Poles are commonly installed at high-profile public gathering places, such as community parks or near the entrances of churches or schools. In one case, a garden, created for a wedding, was designed around the Peace Pole that was its centerpiece. The Republic of Molossia, a micronation, has a Peace Pole in eight languages. The University of California, Los Angeles has a limestone peace pole with 14 languages directly in front of Kerckhoff Hall.\n\nThe initial inspiration for planting a Peace Pole often is as a response to a local historic hate crime, incident or issue. The world's second-largest Peace Pole, at , is located in Janesville, Wisconsin at the site of a 1992 KKK rally (Saturday, May 30). Another of the largest Peace Poles in the world, as measured in tons, is the granite Peace Pole in Beech Acres Park near Cincinnati, Ohio, inspired by hate literature left in the driveways of Jewish residents.\n\nIn September 2016, the World Peace Prayer Society and the Little Free Library project announced a collaboration to offer a new Peace Pole Library structure. It features the standard Peace Pole message of peace - \"May Peace Prevail on Earth” - in a six-foot library. Some of these new libraries were installed at locations significant to the civil rights movement, such as the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama.\n\nThe multilingual inscription of a peace pole constitutes a parallel text with top-to-bottom sentences. Each one is usually shown:\n\nThey can be set in different case styles (sentence case, title case all caps, small caps), even on a single pole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24462895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462895", "title": "Personal carbon credits", "text": "Personal carbon credits\n\nPersonal carbon credits are carbon credits created and owned by individuals who reduce their green house gas (GHG) emissions by a real and verifiable amount. Individuals cause GHG emissions from a variety of direct and indirect activities including transportation use, electrical use and home heating and cooling. Verifiable reductions in GHG emissions are aggregated into 1 metric ton increments and they become personal Carbon Credits.\n\nTraditional carbon credits are purchased by GHG emitters to offset the difference between their actual emissions and their allowable limit under a cap and trade type GHG reduction program or to reduce their total GHG emissions under a voluntary limit. These same credits are created when specific GHG reduction projects produce real, additional and verifiable GHG reductions. These carbon projects are typically large in scale and include reforestation, fuel switching and biogas projects.\n\nPersonal carbon credits follow the same concept as traditional carbon credits, but these projects are small in scale, developed by individuals and encourage actual reduction in energy demand at the use point. They are applicable globally, wherever the verification requirements can be satisfied.\n\nPersonal carbon credits differ from personal carbon trading which imposes a cap or allowance on individual GHG emissions. Personal carbon credits are a voluntary method for individuals to directly reduce energy consumption and the resulting GHG emissions. Successful individual reductions are rewarded through lower utility costs and the value of the created personal carbon credits.\n\nPersonal carbon credits were first introduced by My Emissions Exchange in April 2009. Some experts on carbon credit markets have called for inclusion of small scale GHG reduction projects and verification methods that are valid, appropriate and cost effective for projects of this size. Personal carbon credits address this need and create more opportunities for GHG reductions.\n\nVerification and certification of all carbon credits are necessary to insure real GHG reductions are occurring and to insure buyer confidence in using credits to offset GHG emissions. There are many certification standards in existence today for both the compliance and voluntary credit markets. Personal carbon credits are a new approach to GHG reduction strategies and as such there are no specific protocols existing today within the various certification standards, specifically, because personal carbon credits are so new. However, the proper design of the verification system, such as the use of utility company billing meters and review of historical consumption patterns, can insure that personal carbon credits comply with all the requirements of The Greenhouse Gas Protocol by the World Resources Institute, including additionality. Greater awareness of personal carbon credits will encourage certification organizations to develop specific protocols in the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "18952953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18952953", "title": "Peyote", "text": "Peyote\n\nLophophora williamsii () or peyote () is a small, spineless cactus with psychoactive alkaloids, particularly mescaline. \"Peyote\" is a Spanish word derived from the Nahuatl, or Aztec, peyōtl , meaning \"glisten\" or \"glistening\". Other sources translate the Nahuatl word as \"Divine Messenger\". Peyote is native to Mexico and southwestern Texas. It is found primarily in the Chihuahuan Desert and in the states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potosí among scrub. It flowers from March through May, and sometimes as late as September. The flowers are pink, with thigmotactic anthers (like \"Opuntia\").\n\nKnown for its psychoactive properties when ingested, peyote is used worldwide, having a long history of ritualistic and medicinal use by indigenous North Americans. Peyote contains the hallucinogen mescaline.\n\nThe various species of the genus \"Lophophora\" grow low to the ground and they often form groups with numerous, crowded shoots. The blue-green, yellow-green or sometimes reddish-green shoots are mostly flattened spheres with sunken shoot tips. They can reach heights of from and diameters of . There are often significant, vertical ribs consisting of low and rounded or hump-like bumps. From the cusp areoles arises a tuft of soft, yellowish or whitish woolly hairs. Spines are absent.\nFlowers are pink or white to slightly yellowish, sometimes reddish. They open during the day, are from 1 to 2.4 cm long, and reach a diameter from 1 to 2.2 cm.\nThe cactus produces flowers sporadically; these are followed by small edible pink fruit. The club-shaped to elongated, fleshy fruits are bare and more or less rosy colored. At maturity, they are brownish-white and dry. The fruits do not burst open on their own and they are between 1.5 and 2 cm long. They contain black, pear-shaped seeds that are 1 to 1.5 mm long and 1 mm wide.\nThe seeds require hot and humid conditions to germinate. Peyote contains a large spectrum of phenethylamine alkaloids. The principal one is mescaline for which the content of \"Lophophora williamsii\" is about 0.4% fresh (undried) and 3–6% dried.\n\nPeyote is extremely slow growing. Cultivated specimens grow considerably faster, sometimes taking less than three years to go from seedling to mature flowering adult. More rapid growth can be achieved by grafting peyote onto mature San Pedro root stock. The top of the above-ground part of the cactus, the crown, consists of disc-shaped buttons. These are cut above the roots and sometimes dried. When done properly, the top of the root forms a callus and the root does not rot. When poor harvesting techniques are used, however, the entire plant dies. Currently in South Texas, peyote grows naturally but has been over-harvested, to the point that the state has listed it as an endangered species. The buttons are generally chewed, or boiled in water to produce a psychoactive tea. Peyote is extremely bitter and most people are nauseated before they feel the onset of the psychoactive effects.\n\n\"L. williamsii\" is native to southern North America, mainly distributed in Mexico. In the United States it grows in Southern Texas. In Mexico it grows in the states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas in the north to San Luis Potosi and Zacatecas. It is primarily found at elevations of and exceptionally up to in the Chihuahuan desert, but is also present in the more mild climate of Tamaulipas. Its habitat is primarily in desert scrub, particularly thorn scrub in Tamaulipas. It is common on or near limestone hills.\n\nWhen used for its psychoactive properties, common doses for pure mescaline range from roughly 200 to 400 mg. This translates to a dose of roughly 10 to 20 g of dried peyote buttons of average potency; however, potency varies considerably between samples, making it difficult to measure doses accurately without first extracting the mescaline. The effects last about 10 to 12 hours. Peyote is reported to trigger rich visual or auditory effects (see synesthesia).\n\nIn addition to psychoactive use, some Native American tribes use the plant in the belief it may have curative properties. They employ peyote to treat such varied ailments as toothache, pain in childbirth, fever, breast pain, skin diseases, rheumatism, diabetes, colds, and blindness. The US Dispensatory lists peyote under the name \"Anhalonium\", and states it can be used in various preparations for neurasthenia, hysteria and asthma. Peyote also contains an alkaloid called peyocactin. It is now called hordenine. Peyote poisoning has been a concern in California.\n\nIn 2005 researchers used radiocarbon dating and alkaloid analysis to study two specimens of peyote buttons found in archaeological digs from a site called Shumla Cave No. 5 on the Rio Grande in Texas. The results dated the specimens to between 3780 and 3660 BCE. Alkaloid extraction yielded approximately 2% of the alkaloids including mescaline in both samples. This indicates that native North Americans were likely to have used peyote since at least five-and-a-half thousand years ago.\n\nSpecimens from a burial cave in west central Coahuila, Mexico have been similarly analyzed and dated to 810 to 1070 CE.\n\nFrom earliest recorded time, peyote has been used by indigenous peoples, such as the Huichol of northern Mexico and by various Native American tribes, native to or relocated to the Southern Plains states of present-day Oklahoma and Texas. Its usage was also recorded among various Southwestern Athabaskan-language tribal groups. The Tonkawa, the Mescalero, and Lipan Apache were the source or first practitioners of peyote religion in the regions north of present-day Mexico. They were also the principal group to introduce peyote to newly arrived migrants, such as the Comanche and Kiowa from the Northern Plains. The religious, ceremonial, and healing uses of peyote may date back over 2,000 years.\n\nUnder the auspices of what came to be known as the Native American Church, in the 19th century, American Indians in more widespread regions to the north began to use peyote in religious practices, as part of a revival of native spirituality. Its members refer to peyote as \"the sacred medicine\", and use it to combat spiritual, physical, and other social ills. Concerned about the drug's psychoactive effects, between the 1880s and 1930s, U.S. authorities attempted to ban Native American religious rituals involving peyote, including the Ghost Dance. Today the Native American Church is one among several religious organizations to use peyote as part of its religious practice. Some users claim the drug connects them to God.\n\nTraditional Navajo belief or ceremonial practice did not mention the use of peyote before its introduction by the neighboring Utes. The Navajo Nation now has the most members of the Native American Church.\n\nDr. John Raleigh Briggs (1851–1907) was the first to draw scientific attention of the Western scientific world to peyote. Louis Lewin described \"Anhalonium lewinii\" in 1888. Arthur Heffter conducted self experiments on its effects in 1897. Similarly, Norwegian ethnographer Carl Sofus Lumholtz studied and wrote about the use of peyote among the Indians of Mexico. Lumholtz also reported that, lacking other intoxicants, Texas Rangers captured by Union forces during the American Civil War soaked peyote buttons in water and became \"intoxicated with the liquid\".\n\nA study published in 2007 found no evidence of long-term cognitive problems related to peyote use in Native American Church ceremonies, but researchers stressed their results may not apply to those who use peyote in other contexts. A four-year large-scale study of Navajo who regularly ingested peyote found only one case where peyote was associated with a psychotic break in an otherwise healthy person; other psychotic episodes were attributed to peyote use in conjunction with pre-existing substance abuse or mental health problems. Later research found that those with pre-existing mental health issues are more likely to have adverse reactions to peyote. Peyote use does not appear to be associated with hallucinogen persisting perception disorder (a.k.a. \"flashbacks\") after religious use. Peyote does not seem to be associated with physical dependence, but some users may experience psychological dependence.\n\nPeyote can have strong emetic effects, and one death has been attributed to esophageal bleeding caused by vomiting after peyote ingestion in a Native American patient with a history of alcohol abuse. Peyote is also known to cause potentially serious variations in heart rate, blood pressure, breathing, and pupillary dilation.\n\nResearch into the huichol natives of central-western Mexico, who have taken peyote regularly for an estimated 1,500 years or more, found no evidence of chromosome damage in either men or women.\n\nThe Huichol religion consists of four principal deities: Corn, Blue Deer, Peyote, and the Eagle, all descended from their Sun God, \"Tao Jreeku\". Schaefer has interpreted this to mean that peyote is the soul of their religious culture and a visionary sacrament that opens a pathway to the other deities.\n\n of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances allows nations to exempt certain traditional uses of substances from prohibition:\n\nHowever, this exemption would apply only if the peyote cactus were ever explicitly added to the Schedules of the Psychotropic Convention. Currently the Convention applies only to chemicals. Peyote and other psychedelic plants are neither listed nor regulated by the Convention.\n\nMescaline is listed as a Schedule III controlled substance under the Canadian Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, but peyote is specifically exempt. Possession and use of peyote plants is legal.\n\nNon-drug uses of peyote in religious ceremonies by the Native American Church and its members are exempt from registration. This law has been codified as a statute in the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978, and made part of the common law in \"Peyote Way Church of God, Inc. v. Thornburgh\", (5th Cir. 1991); it is also in administrative law at the which states for \"Special Exempt Persons\":\nSection 1307.31 Native American Church. The listing of peyote as a controlled substance in Schedule I does not apply to the nondrug use of peyote in bona fide religious ceremonies of the Native American Church, and members of the Native American Church so using peyote are exempt from registration. Any person who manufactures peyote for or distributes peyote to the Native American Church, however, is required to obtain registration annually and to comply with all other requirements of law.\n\n\"U.S. v. Boyll\", 774 F.Supp. 1333 (D.N.M. 1991) addresses this racial issue specifically and concludes:\nFor the reasons set out in this Memorandum Opinion and\nOrder, the Court holds that, pursuant to 21 C.F.R. § 1307.31\n(1990), the classification of peyote as a Schedule I controlled\nsubstance, see 21 U.S.C. § 812(c), Schedule I(c)(12), does not\napply to the importation, possession or use of peyote for 'bona\nfide' ceremonial use by members of the Native American Church,\nregardless of race.\nFollowing the passage of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act Amendments of 1994, United States federal law (and many state laws) protects the harvest, possession, consumption and cultivation of peyote as part of \"bona fide religious ceremonies\" (the federal statute is the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, codified at , \"Traditional Indian religious use of the peyote sacrament\", exempting only use by Native American persons. US v. Boyll expanded permitted use to all persons engaged in traditional Indian use, regardless of race. All US states with the exception of Idaho and Texas allow usage by non-native, non-enrolled persons in the context of ceremonies of the Native American Church. Some states such as Arizona additionally exempt any general bona fide religious activity or spiritual intent. US jurisdictions enacted these specific statutory exemptions in reaction to the US Supreme Court's decision in \"Employment Division v. Smith\", , which held that laws prohibiting the use of peyote that do not specifically exempt religious use nevertheless do not violate the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment. Peyote is listed by the United States DEA as a Schedule I controlled substance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33730924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33730924", "title": "President of the Swiss Confederation", "text": "President of the Swiss Confederation\n\nThe President of the Swiss Confederation, also known as the President of the Confederation or colloquially as the President of Switzerland, is the head of Switzerland's seven-member Federal Council, the country's executive branch. Elected by the Federal Assembly for one year, the president chairs the meetings of the Federal Council and undertakes special representational duties. First among equals, the president has no powers over and above the other six councillors and continues to head their department. Traditionally the duty rotates among the members in order of seniority and the previous year's vice-president becomes president. The president is not the Swiss head of state; the entire Federal Council is the collective head of state.\n\nThe constitutional provisions relating to the organization of the Federal Government and Federal administration are set out in \"Section 1 Organisation and Procedure\" of \"Chapter 3 Federal Council and Federal Administration\" of the \"Title 3 Confederation, Cantons and Communes\" of the Swiss Federal Constitution at articles 174 to 179. Article 176 specifically relates to the Presidency.\n\nThe Swiss president is not – as are, for example, the Presidents in Austria or Germany – the head of state of the country: under the Swiss Federal Constitution, the Federal Council doubles as a collective head of state and head of government. When a tied vote occurs in the council (which sometimes happens, because the six Federal Councillors who are not president vote first), the president – as the chair of the council – casts the deciding vote (or may abstain).\n\nIn addition to the control of his or her own department, the president carries out some of the representative duties that are normally carried out by a single head of state in other democracies. For example, since joining the United Nations, Swiss presidents have on occasion spoken at inaugural sessions of the General Assembly along with other visiting heads of state and government. However, because the Swiss have no single head of state, the country carries out no state visits. When traveling abroad, the president does so only in their capacity as head of their department. Visiting heads of state are received by the seven members of the Federal Council together, rather than by the President of the Confederation. Treaties are signed on behalf of the full Council, with all Federal Council members signing letters of credence and other documents of the kind.\n\nThe president is elected by the Federal Assembly from the Federal Council for a term of one year.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the election as federal president was an award for especially esteemed Federal Council members. However, a few influential members of the government were regularly passed over. One such example was Wilhelm Matthias Naeff, who – although a member of the Federal Council for 27 years – was federal president only once, in 1853.\n\nSince the twentieth century, the election has usually not been disputed. There is an unwritten rule that the member of the Federal Council who has not been federal president the longest becomes President. Therefore, every Federal Council member gets a turn at least once every seven years. The only question in the elections that provides some tension is the question of how many votes the person who is to be elected president receives. This is seen as a popularity test. In the 1970s and 1980s, 200 votes (of 246 possible) was seen as an excellent result, but in the current era of growing party-political conflicts, 180 votes are a respectable outcome.\n\nUntil 1920, it was customary for the serving federal president to also lead the Department of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, every year there was a moving around of posts, as the retiring president returned to his former department and the new president took up the Foreign Affairs portfolio. Likewise, it was traditional for the federal president not to leave Switzerland during their year in office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13033868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033868", "title": "Roman/Red", "text": "Roman/Red\n\nRoman/Red () is the nickname of coalitions of catholic and social-democratic parties in the Netherlands and Belgium. Roman refers to Roman Catholic and Red to the colour of social democrats. Between 1946 and 1958, the Catholic People's Party (KVP) and the social-democratic Labour Party (PvdA) formed the core of several 'Roman/red' cabinets, led by Willem Drees.\n\nAfter the Catholic KVP merged with two Protestant parties to form the non-denominational Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) in 1980, the term was used less in Dutch politics. In Belgian politics the term is still used to describe cabinets made up out of the Catholic Christian Democratic and Flemish party (CD&V) and Humanist Democratic Centre (CDh) and the social-democratic Socialist Party Different (SP.A) and Socialist Party (PS).\n"}
{"id": "25923640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25923640", "title": "Romanian National Party (Moldova)", "text": "Romanian National Party (Moldova)\n\nThe Romanian National Party is a political party in Moldova.\n\nPNR participated in parliamentary elections of 1994 and 2001. At the 2003 local election and 2005 parliamentary election did not participate.\n\n\n\nPartidul Naţional Român (PNR)\n"}
{"id": "51113456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51113456", "title": "Rosa Namises", "text": "Rosa Namises\n\nVisolela Rosalinda \"Rosa\" Namises (born 1958), nicknamed the \"Rosa Luxemburg of Namibia\", is a Namibian politician and human-rights activist. She is a former Member of Parliament and founding member and former secretary-general of the Namibian Congress of Democrats (CoD). A prominent voice on gender issues, human-rights violations, and violence against women and children in Namibia, she is the director of Woman Solidarity Namibia and works at the \"Dolam Residential Child Care\" centre, a day-care centre for vulnerable children.\n\nNamises was born on 20 April 1958 as one of nine children to an Angolan father and Damara mother in the Old Location of Windhoek, the capital of Namibia. She grew up with her father until she was 15 years old and attended the Augustineum Secondary School in Windhoek. After graduating she worked first as a cleaner, then as a nursing assistant, and in parallel she completed her matric through a correspondence course with Sukses College.\n\nHer political activism first landed her in jail and then led her into exile, conditions that forced her to discontinue her education. Only in 1990 when Namibia became independent did she continue to study. She obtained a Diploma in Adult and Basic Education from UNISA and a Diploma in Gender Development and Planning from the University of London. She further holds a Diploma in Women in Management, has had some paralegal education, and acquired counselling and facilitation skills.\n\nIn the early 1980s Namises joined the then-illegal SWAPO party. She organised meetings, acquired new members, and distributed promotional material. She was caught and spent two months in solitary confinement but soon returned to her activist's activities. In 1985 she lost her job in the hospital after having been seen holding hands in public with a white doctor, violating apartheid legislation on racial segregation. She was also jailed a second time for her political activities, this time for 14 months.\n\nOnce released she was offered a job by the Catholic Church as community development officer. In the same year Ben Ulenga was released from Robben Island prison. Namises and Ulenga met and became a couple soon thereafter. When she was pregnant with their second child in 1987 but they still refused to marry each other, Namises was fired. She also abandoned her Catholic faith at that time, and for that reason. Namises then went into exile and worked in Europe and America. She only returned after the Independence of Namibia in 1990. Not long thereafter several past human rights violations by SWAPO were uncovered. When the party subsequently erected a wall of silence instead of reappraising what had happened, Namises ceased her SWAPO membership in 1992.\n\nWhen the Congress of Democrats (CoD) was founded in 1999, Namises was one of its founding members. In the subsequent parliamentary elections, the CoD gained seven seats, and Namises as secretary-general became a Member of Parliament. When the CoD only gained five seats in the next elections in 2004, Namises was one of the politicians not to return to parliament. However, after the party expelled Nora Schimming-Chase in 2009, Namises took her seat for the remainder of the legislative period.\n\nAs Namises went in and out of politics, she spent the time in between as an activist and lobbyist. Her first formal role was her work at the Legal Assistance Centre in the early 1990s, a job she took after quitting SWAPO. She helped to discover and fight human rights violations there, a step she described as \"revenge\".\n\nShe is the director of Woman Solidarity Namibia, an organisation fighting violence against women and children. Namises is also the founder and main operator of \"Dolam Residential Child Care\", a day-care facility for vulnerable children. There are 21 children at the centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23810991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23810991", "title": "Shahram Taghavi", "text": "Shahram Taghavi\n\nShahram Taghavi is a barrister practising in the United Kingdom. He is a specialist in Judicial Review, Human Rights, Immigration and EU law. He was called to the England & Wales bar in 1994. He is a partner at Article 1, a law firm specialising in immigration, EU freedoms of movement and human rights law. He practised as an independent barrister at Doughty Street Chambers specialising in immigration and public law. He was head of both the Immigration and Public Law departments at Simons Muirhead & Burton solicitors. He was a Senior Barrister at Bates Wells & Braithwaite LLP as a member of their Public & Regulatory and Immigration departments, Deputy Head of Immigration at Lewis Silkin LLP, Head of Immigration at Charles Russell LLP (now Charles Russell Speechly LLP) and National Head of Immigration at Grant Thornton LLP.\n\nHe has appeared in numerous \"test\" cases on immigration and human rights. He is a contributing author to \"Tolley's Employment and Personnel Procedures\", \"Human Rights Act 1998, A Practical Guide\", a contributing author to the \"Blackstone's Guide to the Asylum and Immigration Act 2004\", the \"Guide to the Points-Based System\" and the founder and former editor of the \"Immigration and Nationality Law Reports\" from 1997 to 2001. He also taught Constitutional and Administrative law at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London from 2001 to 2004 whilst practising at the Bar.\n\nShahram Taghavi is recognised as a leading lawyer in the following fields by the Legal 500: immigration litigation; administrative & public law; civil liberties & human rights. He is recommended as a leading lawyer in the following fields in Chambers and Partners: Personal immigration; Business immigration. The directories have described him as \"brains on legs\", \"excellent\", having a \"dynamic touch\" and a \"calm and reassuring manner and inside-out knowledge of immigration law\", a lawyer whose \"knowledge shines through\", and a \"respected advocate\".\n\nThe 2015 Edition of the UK Chambers & Partners describes him as \"Absolutely first class in terms of his knowledge and pragmatism\".\n\nShahram Taghavi has been involved in many of the key test cases challenging the Home Secretary's tightening of the UK's immigration laws such as \"Pankina\", the successful challenge to the coalition government's 2010 immigration cap () and \"Alvi\". He was also the lawyer behind the challenge to the UK's secret 'blacklist' that permits immigration officials to actively discriminate against certain (undisclosed) nationalities. He continues to lecture on immigration, public and human rights law and is regularly called as an expert witness on immigration and human rights law in civil and criminal matters.\n"}
{"id": "49680773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49680773", "title": "She's Beautiful When She's Angry", "text": "She's Beautiful When She's Angry\n\nShe's Beautiful When She's Angry is a 2014 American documentary about some of the women involved in the second wave feminism movement in the United States of America; it was directed by Mary Dore.\n\n\"She's Beautiful When She's Angry\" is a documentary about some of the women involved in the second wave feminism movement in the United States of America. It runs for 92 minutes. It features the following activists, shown here in alphabetical order:\n"}
{"id": "38841580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38841580", "title": "Spirit of Revolt Archive", "text": "Spirit of Revolt Archive\n\nThe Spirit of Revolt Archive, based in Glasgow (Scotland), is dedicated to collecting, managing and preserving multi-media records from Glasgow’s and Clydeside’s anarchist and libertarian-socialist movement. It is a ‘community archive’, largely run by volunteers. It was constituted in August 2011 and today forms part of Glasgow City Archives’ collection whilst maintaining its organisational independence. Its catalogue will join the National Records of Scotland in 2013. The archive derives its name from the title of an 1880 pamphlet by the Russian anarchist Peter Kropotkin. \nThe archive’s digitised documents are hosted on www.archive.org.\n\nFor its initial scoping and start-up phase, Spirit of Revolt Archive was funded by the Barry Amiel and Norman Melburn Trust which seeks to ‘advance public education, learning and knowledge in all aspects of the philosophy of Marxism, the history of socialism, and the working-class movement’.\n\nMaterial selected for retention in the archive provides one or more of the following: evidence of a campaign, movement, organisation, or individual’s activities; information pertinent to the anarchist movement, e.g., expositions of anarchist ideology, political positions, rationale behind activities; an insight into membership and associates of anarchist organisations; evidence of the impact of anarchism culturally and politically. Material from political parties is not collected, according to archival policy. \n\nIn January 2013, the archive organised an exhibition, called ‘Radical Presses Clydeside – 100 Years of Autonomous Protest Literature’ at Glasgow’s Mitchell Library.\n\nIn March 2013, Spirit of Revolt was represented at the 19th \"Alternative Futures and Popular Protest\" conference at Manchester Metropolitan University.\n\nSpirit of Revolt Archive also works in conjunction with \"Radical Glasgow's Strugglepedia\" which gives information about Glasgow's radical history.\n"}
{"id": "5935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5935", "title": "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", "text": "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, often informally known as the LDS Church or Mormon Church, is a nontrinitarian, Christian restorationist church that is considered by its members to be the restoration of the original church founded by Jesus Christ. The church is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah in the United States, and has established congregations and built temples worldwide. According to the church, it has over 67,000 missionaries and a membership of over 16 million. In 2012, the National Council of Churches ranked the church as the fourth-largest Christian denomination in the United States, with over 6.5 million members reported by the church, as of January 2018. It is the largest denomination in the Latter Day Saint movement founded by Joseph Smith during the period of religious revival known as the Second Great Awakening.\n\nAdherents, often referred to as \"Latter-day Saints\" or, less formally, \"Mormons\", view faith in Jesus Christ and his atonement as fundamental principles of their religion. LDS theology includes the Christian doctrine of salvation only through Jesus Christ, though LDS doctrines regarding the nature of God and the potential of mankind differ significantly from mainstream Christianity. The church has an open canon which includes four scriptural texts: the Bible (both Old and New Testaments), the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. Other than the Bible, the majority of the LDS canon constitutes revelation received by Joseph Smith and recorded by his scribes which includes commentary and exegesis about the Bible, texts described as lost parts of the Bible, and other works believed to be written by ancient prophets. Because of some of the doctrinal differences, Catholic, Orthodox, and several Protestant churches consider the Church to be distinct and separate from mainstream Christianity.\n\nUnder the doctrine of continuing revelation, Latter-day Saints believe that the church president is a modern-day \"prophet, seer, and revelator\" and that Jesus Christ, under the direction of God the Father, leads the church by revealing his will to its president. Individual members of the church believe that they can also receive personal revelation from God in conducting their lives. The president heads a hierarchical structure with various levels reaching down to local congregations. Bishops, drawn from the laity, lead local congregations. Male members, after reaching age 12, may be ordained to the priesthood, provided they are living the standards of the church. Women are not ordained to the priesthood but do occupy leadership roles in some church auxiliary organizations.\n\nBoth men and women may serve as missionaries and the church maintains a large missionary program that proselytizes and conducts humanitarian services worldwide. Faithful members adhere to church laws of sexual purity, health, fasting, and Sabbath observance, and contribute ten percent of their income to the church in tithing. The church also teaches about sacred ordinances through which adherents make covenants with God, including baptism, confirmation, the sacrament (holy communion), priesthood ordination, endowment, and celestial marriage (marriage blessings which extend beyond mortality)—all of which are of great significance to church members.\n\nThe history of the LDS Church is typically divided into three broad time periods: (1) the early history during the lifetime of Joseph Smith, which is in common with all Latter Day Saint movement churches; (2) a pioneer era under the leadership of Brigham Young and his 19th-century successors; and (3) a modern era beginning around the turn of the 20th century as Utah achieved statehood.\n\nThe LDS Church, originally called the Church of Christ, was formally organized by Joseph Smith on April 6, 1830, in western New York. Smith later changed the name to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints after he stated he had received a revelation to do so. Initial converts were drawn to the church in part because of the newly published Book of Mormon, a self-described chronicle of indigenous American prophets that Smith said he had translated from golden plates.\n\nSmith intended to establish the New Jerusalem in North America, called \"Zion\". In 1831, the church moved to Kirtland, Ohio (the eastern boundary of Zion), and began establishing an outpost in Jackson County, Missouri (Zion's \"center place\"), where he planned to eventually move the church headquarters. However, in 1833, Missouri settlers brutally expelled the Latter Day Saints from Jackson County, and the church was unable via a paramilitary expedition to recover the land. Nevertheless, the church flourished in Kirtland as Smith published new revelations and the church built the Kirtland Temple, culminating in a dedication of the building similar to the day of Pentecost. The Kirtland era ended in 1838, after a financial scandal rocked the church and caused widespread defections. Smith regrouped with the remaining church in Far West, Missouri, but tensions soon escalated into violent conflicts with the old Missouri settlers. Believing the Saints to be in insurrection, the Missouri governor ordered that the Saints be \"exterminated or driven from the State.\" In 1839, the Saints converted a swampland on the banks of the Mississippi River into Nauvoo, Illinois, which became the church's new headquarters.\n\nNauvoo grew rapidly as missionaries sent to Europe and elsewhere gained new converts who then flooded into Nauvoo. Meanwhile, Smith introduced polygamy to his closest associates. He also established ceremonies, which he stated the Lord had revealed to him, to allow righteous people to become gods (joint heirs with Christ, see theosis) in the afterlife, and a secular institution to govern the Millennial kingdom. He also introduced the church to a full accounting of his First Vision, in which two heavenly \"personages\" (God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ) appeared to him at age 14. This vision would come to be regarded by the LDS Church as the most important event in human history since the resurrection of Jesus. Church members believe Joseph Smith is the first modern-day prophet.\n\nOn June 27, 1844, Smith and his brother Hyrum were murdered by a mob in Carthage, Illinois, while being held on charges of treason. Because Hyrum was Joseph's designated successor, their deaths caused a succession crisis, and Brigham Young assumed leadership over the majority of Saints. Young had been a close associate of Smith's and was senior apostle of the Quorum of the Twelve. Other splinter groups followed other leaders in their own interpretation of the Latter Day Saint movement. These groups have no affiliation with the LDS Church.\n\nFor two years after Smith's death, conflicts escalated between Mormons and other Illinois residents. Smith had predicted that the church would go to the West and be established in the tops of the Rocky Mountains. Brigham Young took Smith's advice and led his followers, known in modern times as the Mormon pioneers, to Nebraska and then in 1847 to what became the Utah Territory. As groups (over 60,000) arrived over a period of years, LDS settlers branched out and colonized a large region now known as the Mormon Corridor.\n\nYoung incorporated the LDS Church as a legal entity, and initially governed both the church and the state as a theocratic leader. He also publicized the practice of plural marriage, a form of polygamy.\n\nBy 1857, tensions had again escalated between Mormons and other Americans, largely as a result of accusations involving polygamy and the theocratic rule of the Utah Territory by Young. The Utah Mormon War ensued from 1857 to 1858, which resulted in the relatively peaceful invasion of Utah by the United States Army, after which Young agreed to step down from power and be replaced by a non-Mormon territorial governor, Alfred Cumming. Nevertheless, the LDS Church still wielded significant political power in the Utah Territory.\n\nAt Young's death in 1877, he was followed by other church presidents, who resisted efforts by the United States Congress to outlaw Mormon polygamous marriages. In 1878, the United States Supreme Court, in \"Reynolds v. United States\", decreed that \"religious duty\" to engage in plural marriage was not a valid defense to prosecutions for violating state laws against polygamy. Conflict between Mormons and the U.S. government escalated to the point that, in 1890, Congress disincorporated the LDS Church and seized most of its assets. Soon thereafter, church president Wilford Woodruff issued a manifesto that officially suspended the practice. Although this manifesto did not dissolve existing plural marriages, so that families would not be split apart or damaged, no new polygamous marriages would be performed. Relations with the United States markedly improved after 1890, such that Utah was admitted as a U.S. state in 1896. Relations further improved after 1904, when church president Joseph F. Smith again disavowed polygamy before the United States Congress and issued a \"Second Manifesto\", calling for all plural marriages in the church to cease, as they were already against church doctrine since Woodruff issued the Manifesto. Eventually, the church adopted a policy of excommunicating its members found practicing polygamy and today actively distances itself from \"fundamentalist\" groups still practicing polygamy.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the church grew substantially and became an international organization, due in part to the spread of missionaries around the globe. In 2000, the church reported 60,784 missionaries and global church membership stood at just over 11 million. Worldwide membership surpassed 13 million in 2007 and reached 14 million in July 2010, with about six million of those within the United States. However, it is estimated based on demographic studies that only one-third of the total worldwide membership (about 4.5 million people as of 2014) are regularly attending churchgoers. The church cautions against overemphasis of growth statistics for comparison with other churches because relevant factors—including activity rates and death rates, methodology used in registering or counting members, what factors constitute membership, and geographical variations—are rarely accounted for in the comparisons.\n\nThe church has become a strong and public champion of the nuclear family and at times played a prominent role in political matters, including opposition to MX Peacekeeper missile bases in Utah and Nevada, the Equal Rights Amendment, legalized gambling, same-sex marriage, and physician-assisted death. Apart from issues that it considers to be ones of morality, however, the church maintains a position of political neutrality, but encourages its members to be politically active, to participate in elections, and to be knowledgeable about current political and social issues within their communities, states, and countries.\n\nA number of official changes have taken place to the organization during the modern era. One significant change was the ordination of men of black African descent to the priesthood in 1978, which reversed a policy originally instituted by Brigham Young in 1852. There are also periodic changes in the structure and organization of the church, mainly to accommodate the organization's growth and increasing international presence. For example, since the early 1900s, the church has instituted a Priesthood Correlation Program to centralize church operations and bring them under a hierarchy of priesthood leaders. During the Great Depression, the church also began operating a church welfare system, and it has conducted numerous humanitarian efforts in cooperation with other religious organizations including Catholic Relief Services and Islamic Relief, as well as secular organizations such as the American Red Cross.\n\nThe theology of the LDS Church consists of a combination of biblical doctrines with modern revelations and other commentary by LDS leaders, particularly Joseph Smith. The most authoritative sources of theology are the faith's canon of four religious texts, called the \"standard works\". Included in the standard works are the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. The Book of Mormon is said by the church to be \"Another Testament of Jesus Christ\" that Smith translated from buried golden plates. The LDS Church believes that the Angel Moroni told Smith about these golden plates and guided him to find them buried in the Hill Cumorah. The church believes that this Angel Moroni is at least partial fulfillment of Revelation 14:6 in the Bible. The church characterizes the Book of Mormon as \"the most correct of any book on earth and the keystone of [the] religion\".\n\nThe Bible, also part of the church's canon, is believed to be \"the word of God as far as it is translated correctly.\" Most often, the church uses the Authorized King James Version. Sometimes, however, parts of the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible (corrections and restorations of assertedly damaged or lost passages) are considered authoritative. Some excerpts of Smith's translation have been included in the Pearl of Great Price, which also includes further translations by Smith and church historical items. Other historical items and revelations are found in the Doctrine and Covenants.\n\nAnother source of authoritative doctrine is the pronouncements of the current Apostles and members of the First Presidency. The church teaches that the First Presidency (the church's president and his counselors) and the Quorum of Twelve Apostles are prophets and that their teachings are generally given under inspiration from God through the Holy Spirit. Members of the church acknowledge (sustain) them regularly as prophets, seers, and revelators—this is done publicly twice a year at the church's worldwide general conference.\n\nSeveral doctrines and practices of the LDS Church are peculiar within Christianity. For example, the Mormon cosmology and plan of salvation include the doctrines of a pre-mortal life, three degrees of heaven, and exaltation. According to these doctrines, every human spirit is a literal child of a Heavenly Father, and each has the potential to continue to learn, grow, and progress in the eternities, eventually achieving eternal life (which Latter-day Saints view as distinct from immortality), which is to become one with God in the same way that Jesus Christ is one with the Father, thus allowing the children of God to become divine beings or \"gods\" themselves. This view on the doctrine of theosis is also referred to as becoming a \"joint-heir with Christ.\" The process by which this is accomplished is called \"exaltation\", a doctrine which includes the reunification of the mortal family after the resurrection and the ability to have spirit children in the afterlife and inherit a portion of God's kingdom. To obtain this state of godhood, the church teaches that one must have faith in Jesus Christ, repent of his or her sins, strive to keep the commandments faithfully, and participate in a sequence of ceremonial covenants called \"ordinances\", which include baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, the endowment, and celestial marriage.\n\nThis latter ordinance, known as a sealing ceremony, reflects a singular LDS view with respect to families. According to LDS Church theology, men and women may be \"sealed\" to one another so that their marital bond continues into the eternities. Children may also be sealed to their biological or adoptive parents to form permanent familial bonds, thus allowing all immediate and extended family relations to endure past death. The most significant LDS ordinances may be performed via proxy in behalf of those who have died, such as baptism for the dead. The church teaches that all will have the opportunity to hear and accept or reject the gospel of Jesus Christ and the blessings that come to those who faithfully adhere to it, in this life or the next. Ordinances such as baptisms for the dead, sealings, and endowments are performed in temples that are built and dedicated specifically for these purposes.\n\nThe LDS faithful observe a health code called the \"Word of Wisdom,\" in which they abstain from the consumption of alcohol, coffee, tea, and tobacco. The Word of Wisdom also encourages the use of wholesome herbs and fruits within season, moderate consumption of meat, and consumption of grains.\n\nLatter-day Saints follow a moral code, called the \"law of chastity,\" which prohibits adultery, all homosexual behavior, and any sexual relations outside of marriage.\n\nLDS faithful donate a ten-percent tithe on their annual income, for the operations of the church, including construction of temples, meetinghouses, and other buildings, and other church uses. Faithful members also abstain from food and drink (fasting) on the first Sunday of each month for at least two consecutive meals, prayerfully dedicating the fast to a purpose of each individual's choosing. They donate at least the cost of the two skipped meals as a fast offering, which the church uses to assist the poor and needy and expand its humanitarian efforts. Members are further instructed to set aside one night a week, typically Monday, for a \"Family Home Evening,\" where they gather as a family to study gospel principles and participate in wholesome activities.\n\nAll LDS young men are expected to serve a two-year, full-time proselytizing mission. Missionaries do not choose where they serve or the language in which they will proselytize, and are expected to fund their missions themselves or with the aid of their families. Prospective male missionaries must be at least 18 years old and no older than 25, not yet married, have completed secondary school, and meet certain criteria for physical fitness and spiritual worthiness. Missionary service is not compulsory, nor is it required for young men to retain their church membership. Unmarried women 19 years and older may also serve as missionaries, generally for a term of 18 months. However, the LDS Church emphasizes that women are not under the same expectation to serve as male members are, and may serve solely as a personal decision. There is no maximum age for missionary service for women. Prior to October 2012, the minimum age for full-time missionary service was generally 19 for men and 21 for women. Retired couples are encouraged to serve missions, and may serve for either 6-, 12-, 18-, or 23-month terms. Unlike younger missionaries, these senior missionaries may serve in non-proselytizing capacities such as humanitarian aid workers or family history specialists. Other men and women who desire to serve a mission, but may not be able to perform full-time service in another state or country due to health issues, may serve in a service mission. They might assist at Temple Square in Salt Lake City or aide in the seminary systems in schools. Many opportunities are available.\n\nThe LDS Church shares various teachings with other branches of Christianity. These include a belief in the Bible (subject to an acknowledgement that it is imperfect), the divinity of Jesus, and his atonement and resurrection. LDS theology also includes belief in the doctrine of salvation through Jesus alone, restorationism, millennialism, continuationism, penal substitution, and a form of apostolic succession. The practices of baptism by immersion and the eucharist (referred to as \"the sacrament\") are also held in common. However, the Catholic Church considers doctrinal differences between the two groups to be so great that it will not accept a prior LDS baptism as evidence of Christian initiation, as it will baptism by other Christian groups, such as the Eastern Orthodox and Protestant churches. The LDS Church does not accept baptisms performed in any other churches, as it teaches that baptism is only valid when it is conducted through proper priesthood authority.\n\nNevertheless, the LDS Church differs from the many other churches within contemporary Christianity, and many people do not accept the church as part of Christianity. The faith itself views other modern Christian faiths as having departed from true Christianity via a general apostasy and maintains that it is a restoration of 1st-century Christianity and the only true and authorized Christian church. Differences between the LDS Church and most of traditional Christianity include disagreement with aspects of the Nicene Creed, belief in a theory of human salvation that includes three heavens (referred to as \"degrees of glory\", its interpretation of I Cor. 15:35 \"et.seq.\"), a doctrine of \"exaltation\" which includes the ability of humans to become gods and goddesses in the afterlife, a dietary code called the Word of Wisdom, and unique ceremonies performed privately in LDS temples, such as the endowment and sealing ceremonies.\n\nOfficially, major Christian denominations view the LDS Church as standing apart from creedal Christianity. Leaders of the LDS Church assert that the LDS Church is the only true church and that other churches do not have the authority to act in Jesus' name.\n\nFrom the perspective of Christians who agree with creeds, the most significant area of departure is the rejection by the LDS Church of certain parts of ecumenical creeds such as the Nicene Creed, which defines the predominant view of the Christian God as a Trinity of three separate persons in \"one essence\". LDS Church theology includes the belief in a \"Godhead\" composed of God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost as three separate Persons who share a unity of purpose or will; however, they are viewed as three distinct Beings making one Godhead. Other significant differences relate to the church's acceptance of additional scripture, doctrine, and practices beyond what is found in the Catholic, Protestant, or Eastern Orthodox versions of the Bible.\n\nThe LDS Church shares a common heritage with a number of smaller faith groups that are collectively called the Latter Day Saint movement. The largest of these smaller groups is the Community of Christ (previously known as the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints), based in Independence, Missouri, followed by The Church of Jesus Christ, based in Monongahela, Pennsylvania. Like the LDS Church, these faiths believe in Joseph Smith as a prophet and founder of their religion. They also accept the Book of Mormon, and most, but not all, accept at least some version of the Doctrine and Covenants. However, they tend to disagree to varying degrees with the LDS Church concerning doctrine and church leadership.\n\nThe main branches of the Latter Day Saint movement resulted from the crisis of succession upon the death of Joseph Smith. Other branches may be considered later offshoots of the LDS Church branch, mainly due to disagreements about plural marriage.\n\nThe church teaches that it is a continuation of the Church of Christ established in 1830 by Joseph Smith. This original church underwent several name changes during the 1830s, being called the Church of Jesus Christ, the Church of God, and then in 1834, the name was officially changed to the Church of the Latter Day Saints. In April 1838, the name was officially changed to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. After Smith died, Brigham Young and the largest body of Smith's followers incorporated the LDS Church in 1851 by legislation of the State of Deseret under the name \"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\", which included a hyphenated \"Latter-day\" and a British-style lower-case \"d.\"\n\nIn 1887, the LDS Church was legally dissolved in the United States by the Edmunds–Tucker Act because of the church's practice of polygamy. In the United States, the church continues to operate as an unincorporated entity. Accepted informal names for the church include the LDS Church, the Latter-day Saints, and the Mormons. The term \"Mormon Church\" is in common use, but the church began discouraging its use in the late 20th century, though takes no issue with the term \"Mormon\" itself. The church requests that the official name be used when possible or, if necessary, shortened to \"the Church\" or \"the Church of Jesus Christ\".\n\nTax-exempt corporations of the LDS Church include the \"Corporation of the Presiding Bishop of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\", \na corporation sole which was organized in 1916 under the laws of the state of Utah to acquire, hold, and dispose of real property; the \"Corporation of the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\", which was established in 1923 in Utah to receive and manage money and church donations; and \"Intellectual Reserve, Inc.\", which was incorporated in 1997 to hold the church's copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property. Non-tax-exempt corporations of the church include Bonneville International and the Deseret News.\n\nChurch congregations are organized geographically. Members are generally expected to attend the congregation with their assigned geographical area; however, some geographical areas also provide separate congregations for young single adults (between the ages of 18 and 30), single adults aged 31 to 45, or for speakers of alternate languages. For Sunday services, the church is grouped into either larger (~150 to ~400 people) congregations known as wards, or smaller congregations known as branches. Although the building may sometimes be referred to as a chapel, the room used as a chapel for religious services is only one component of the standard meetinghouse. The church maintains a virtual tour online of a typical example and also an online meetinghouse locator, which can be used to find the locations and meeting times of its congregations all over the world. Regional church organizations, encompassing multiple congregations, include stakes, missions, districts, areas, and regions.\n\nThe church reports a worldwide membership of 16 million; This is the church's own accounting, based on membership records. The church's definition of \"membership\" includes all persons who were ever baptized, or whose parents were members while the person was under the age of eight called \"members of record\" , who have neither been excommunicated nor asked to have their names removed from church records with approximately 8.3 million residing outside the United States, as of December 2011. According to these statistics it is the fourth largest religious body in the United States. The church membership report includes all baptized members and their children. Although the church does not release attendance figures to the public, researchers estimate that actual attendance at weekly LDS worship services globally is around 4 million. Members living in the U.S. and Canada constitute 46% percent of membership, Latin America 38 percent, and members in the rest of the world 16 percent. The 2012 Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life survey, conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International, found that approximately 2 percent of the U.S. adult population self identified as Mormon.\n\nThe church continues to seek recognition in regions where it has had little or no influence. On August 30, 2010, church leaders announced that they were making significant progress on \"regularized operations for the Church in China.\"\n\nThe LDS Church is organized in a hierarchical priesthood structure administered by men. Latter-day Saints believe that Jesus leads the church through revelation and has chosen a single man, called \"the Prophet\" or President of the Church, as his spokesman on the earth. While there have been exceptions in the past, he and two counselors are normally ordained apostles and form the First Presidency, the presiding body of the church; twelve other apostles form the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. When a president dies, his successor is invariably the most senior member of the Quorum of the Twelve (the one who has been an apostle the longest), who reconstitutes a new First Presidency. Following the death of Thomas S. Monson on January 2, 2018, senior apostle Russell M. Nelson became the presumptive successor to the church presidency; he formally was named president on January 14. These men, and the other male members of the church-wide leadership (including the first two Quorums of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric) are called general authorities. They exercise both ecclesiastical and administrative leadership over the church and direct the efforts of regional leaders down to the local level. General authorities and mission presidents work full-time and typically receive stipends from church funds or investments.\n\nTwice each year (in April and October), general authorities address the worldwide church through general conference, which includes five two-hour sessions over the course of two days. General conference sessions are translated into as many as 80 languages and are broadcast from the 21,000-seat Conference Center in Salt Lake City. In addition to general conference, general authorities speak to church members in local congregations throughout the world; they also frequently speak to youth and young adults in special broadcasts and at the Church Educational System schools, such as Brigham Young University.\n\nAt the local level, the church leadership are drawn from the laity and work on a part-time volunteer basis without stipend. Like all members, they are asked to donate a tithe of 10 percent of their income to the church. An exception to that rule is for LDS missionaries, who work at the local level and are paid basic living expenses from a fund that receives contributions from their families or home congregations. But, prospective missionaries are encouraged to contribute the cost of their missions to this fund themselves when possible. Members volunteer general custodial work for local church facilities.\n\nAll males who are living the standards of the church are generally considered for the priesthood and are ordained to the priesthood as early as age 12. Ordination occurs by a ceremony where hands are laid on the head of the one ordained. The priesthood is divided into an Aaronic priesthood for young men 12 and up, and a Melchizedek priesthood for men 18 and up.\n\nUnder the leadership of the priesthood hierarchy are five auxiliary organizations that fill various roles in the church: Relief Society (a women's organization), the Young Men and Young Women organizations (for adolescents ages 12 to 18), Primary (an organization for children up to age 12), and Sunday School (which provides a variety of Sunday classes for adolescents and adults). Women serve as presidents and counselors in the presidencies of the Relief Society, Young Women, and Primary, while men serve as presidents and counselors of the Young Men and Sunday School. The church also operates several programs and organizations in the fields of proselytizing, education, and church welfare such as LDS Humanitarian Services. Many of these auxiliaries and programs are coordinated by the Priesthood Correlation Program, which is designed to provide a systematic approach to maintain worldwide consistency, orthodoxy, and control of the church's ordinances, doctrines, organizations, meetings, materials, and other programs and activities.\n\nThe church operates a Church Educational System which includes Brigham Young University (BYU) (and its associated Jerusalem Center), BYU–Idaho, BYU–Hawaii, and LDS Business College. The church also operates Institutes of Religion near the campuses of many colleges and universities. For high-school aged youth, the church operates a four-year Seminary program, which provides religious classes for students to supplement their secular education. The church also sponsors a low-interest educational loan program known as the Perpetual Education Fund, which provides educational opportunities to students from developing nations.\n\nThe church's welfare system, initiated during the Great Depression, provides aid to the poor. It is financed by fast offerings: monthly donations beyond the normal 10 percent tithe, which represents the cost of forgoing two meals on monthly Fast Sundays. Money from the program is used to operate Bishop's storehouses, which package and store food at low cost. Distribution of funds and food is administered by local bishops. The church also distributes money through its LDS Philanthropies division to disaster victims worldwide.\n\nOther church programs and departments include LDS Family Services, which provides assistance with adoption, marital and family counseling, psychotherapy, and addiction counseling; the LDS Church History Department, which collects church history and records; and the Family History Department, which administers the church's large family history efforts, including the world's largest family history library and organization (FamilySearch). For over 100 years, the church has also a major sponsor of Scouting programs for boys, particularly in the United States, where it provides more members of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) than any other church. In May 2018, the church announced it will no longer sponsor BSA programs, effective the end of 2019.\n\nAlthough the church has not released church-wide financial statements since 1959, in 1997, \"Time\" magazine called it one of the world's wealthiest churches per capita. In a June 2011 cover story, \"Newsweek\" stated that the LDS Church \"resembles a sanctified multinational corporation—the General Electric of American religion, with global ambitions and an estimated net worth of $30 billion.\" Its for-profit, non-profit, and educational subsidiary entities are audited by an independent accounting firm: , some done by Deloitte & Touche. In addition, the church employs an independent audit department that provides its certification at each annual general conference that church contributions are collected and spent in accordance with church policy.\n\nThe church receives significant funds from tithes and fast offerings. According to the church, tithing and fast offering money collected are devoted to ecclesiastical purposes and not used in for-profit ventures.\n\nThe church has also invested in for-profit business and real estate ventures such as Bonneville International, Deseret Book Company, City Creek Center, and cattle ranches in Utah, Florida, Nebraska, Canada and other locations.\n\nIt has been estimated that the LDS Church received $33-billion in donations from its members in 2010 and, during the decade of the 2010s to net about $15-billion gains per year. According to Bloomberg Businessweek, the LDS Church's worth at $40 billion as of 2012.\n\nDue to the differences in lifestyle promoted by church doctrine and history, members of the church have developed a distinct culture. It is primarily concentrated in the Intermountain West. Many of the church's more distinctive practices include adhering to the Word of Wisdom, a health law or code which outlines guidelines for maintaining good health. Among these guidelines are instructions prohibiting the consumption of tobacco, alcohol, coffee, tea, and improper drug use. As a result of members adhering to the Word of Wisdom, areas of the world with a high concentration of LDS members practice these restrictions. They sometimes come into conflict with local retail businesses that serve non-members.\n\nMeetings and outreach programs are held regularly and have become part of Latter-day Saint culture.\n\nThe culture has created substantial business opportunities for independent LDS media. Such communities include cinema, fiction, websites, and graphical art such as photography and paintings. The church owns a chain of bookstores called Deseret Book, which provide a channel through which publications are sold. Titles including \"The Work and the Glory\" and \"The Other Side of Heaven\" have found acceptance both within and outside the church; BYU TV, the church-sponsored television station, also airs on several networks. The church also produces six pageants annually depicting various events of the primitive and modern-day church. Its Easter pageant \"Jesus the Christ\" has been identified as the \"largest annual outdoor Easter pageant in the world.\"\n\nIn 1995, the church's First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve issued \",\" which stresses the importance of the family. The proclamation states that \"marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and that the family is central to the Creator's plan for the eternal destiny of His children.\" The document further says that \"gender is an essential characteristic of individual premortal, mortal, and eternal identity and purpose,\" that the father and mother have differing but equal roles in raising children, and that successful marriages and families, founded upon the teachings of Jesus Christ, can last eternally. This document is widely cited by LDS members as a statement of principle.\n\nThe adult women (members of the church's Relief Society) in a congregation meet at least quarterly for additional instruction and service. The meetings may consist of a service project, conferences, or of various classes being offered.\n\nAfter interviewing and polling thousands of youth across America, evangelical statistician Christian Smith writes, \"in general comparisons among major U.S. religious traditions using a variety of sociological measures of religious vitality and salience ... it is Mormon teenagers who are sociologically faring the best.\"\n\nAdditional meetings are also frequently held at the meetinghouse. Auxiliary officers may conduct leadership meetings or host training sessions and classes. The ward or branch community may schedule social activities at the meetinghouse, including dances, dinners, holiday parties and musical presentations. The church's Young Men and Young Women organizations meet at the meetinghouse once a week, where the youth participate in activities and work on Duty to God, Scouting, or Personal Progress. Other popular activities are basketball, family history conferences, youth and singles conferences, dances, and various personal improvement classes. Church members may also reserve meetinghouses at no cost for weddings, receptions, and funerals.\n\nIn the summer, the LDS Church promotes week-long seminars throughout North America, known as Especially for Youth (EFY). This program is held Monday through Saturday during the summer months for youth ages 14–18. During this week, youths often spend the night in college campus dorms and the day in various classes taught by adult religious educators, as well as participating in other various activities such as scripture study and dances.\n\nThe LDS Church takes no partisan role in politics, stating that it will not \"endorse, promote or oppose political parties, candidates or platforms; allow its church buildings, membership lists or other resources to be used for partisan political purposes; attempt to direct its members as to which candidate or party they should give their votes to ... or attempt to direct or dictate to a government leader.\"\n\nWhile the church takes an apolitical approach to candidates, it encourages its members to play an active role as responsible citizens in their communities, including becoming informed about issues and voting in elections. It actively works to counter anti-Mormonism that may come up during political campaigns. A 2012 Pew Center on Religion and Public Life survey indicates that 74 percent of U.S. members lean towards the Republican Party. Some liberal members say they feel that they have to defend their worthiness due to political differences. Referring to the 2012 U.S Republican Presidential Primary, Michael Otterson, the LDS Church's managing director for public affairs stated, \"We now have two Latter-day Saints running, and the potential for misunderstanding or missteps is therefore twice what it was before.\"\n\nThe official church stance on staying out of politics does not include if there are instances of what church leaders deem to be moral issues. It has previously opposed same-sex marriage in California Prop 8, supported a gay rights bill in Salt Lake City which bans discrimination against homosexual persons in housing and employment, opposed gambling, opposed storage of nuclear waste in Utah, and supported the Utah Compact. It also opposed a ballot initiative legalizing medicinal marijuana in Utah, but supports a possible alternative to it. Jack N. Gerard, a general authority who serves as executive director of the church's Public Affairs Department stated, \"The Church does not object to the medicinal use of marijuana, if doctor-prescribed, in dosage form, through a licensed pharmacy.\"\n\nThirteen persons identified as members of the LDS Church are serving in the 115th United States Congress. Utah's governor, Gary Herbert, is also a church member. Church member Mitt Romney was the Republican Party's nominee in the U.S. 2012 presidential election. Jon Huntsman, Jr. sought the Republican nomination until his withdrawal in early 2012.\n\nThe LDS Church stresses the importance of worldwide humanitarian service. The church's welfare and humanitarian efforts are coordinated by LDS Philanthropies (LDSP), a church department under the direction of the Presiding Bishopric. Welfare efforts, originally initiated during the Great Depression, provide aid for the poor, financed by donations from church members. LDSP is also responsible for philanthropic donations to the LDS Church and other affiliated charities, such as the Church History Library, the Church Educational System—which includes Brigham Young University, the Perpetual Education Fund, and the Polynesian Cultural Center—the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, and efforts dedicated to providing funds for LDS missionaries and temple construction. Donations are also used to operate bishop's storehouses, which package and store food for the poor at low cost. Distribution of funds and food is administered by local bishops. These local storehouses distribute commodities to the needy as requested by local bishops on a specified form. Bishop's storehouses also provide service opportunities for those receiving assistance and for those desiring to serve missions or to volunteer in the church's welfare program. The day-to-day operations of the storehouses are typically run by senior-aged missionaries as store managers.\n\nThe church also distributes money through its Humanitarian Services division to natural disaster victims worldwide. The church's Humanitarian Center, established in 1991, prepares emergency relief supplies for worldwide shipment to disaster victims, works to establish a global sense of self-reliance, and offers service opportunities to both church members and non-members. The emergency relief supplies that the church donates typically include clothing, personal care kits, and medical supplies. According to the LDS Humanitarian Center website, it ships about 12 million pounds of shoes and clothing, one million hygiene kits, and one million pounds of medical supplies per year, to relieve suffering in more than 100 countries. When a disaster strikes, the church works with local government officials and other organizations to determine the immediate needs, and sends the necessary supplies and food to the affected area within hours. Missionaries are then sent to help alleviate other long-term damages by assisting injured persons and reconstructing damaged buildings. The church carries out these efforts without regard to the nationality or religion of the recipients, and 100 percent of the financial contributions donated to the church by members and non-members are used for humanitarian purposes.\n\nThe church has been involved in providing relief aid for victims of several disasters in recent years, including Hurricane Katrina, the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the 2011 Christchurch earthquake, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. In 2005 the church partnered with Catholic Relief Services to provide aid for struggling families and individuals in Niger, and it has also partnered with Islamic Relief to help victims of flooding in Pakistan. In addition, the church sponsors five global projects (neonatal resuscitation training, clean water projects, wheelchair distribution, vision treatment, and measles vaccinations), and works with local government agencies and other religious and secular organizations such as the American Red Cross and UNICEF to accomplish these needs. In 2003 the church joined Measles Initiative and has committed one million dollars per year to the campaign.\n\nThe LDS Church has been subject to criticism and sometimes discrimination since its early years in New York and Pennsylvania. In the late 1820s, criticism centered around the claim by Joseph Smith to have been led to a set of gold plates from which the Book of Mormon was reputedly translated.\n\nIn the 1830s, the greatest criticism was for Smith's handling of a banking failure in Kirtland, Ohio. After the Mormons migrated west, there was fear and suspicion about the LDS Church's political and military power in Missouri, culminating in the 1838 Mormon War and the infamous Mormon Extermination Order (Missouri Executive Order 44) by Governor Lilburn Boggs. In the 1840s, criticism of the church centered on its theocratic aspirations in Nauvoo, Illinois. Criticism of the practice of plural marriage and other doctrines taught by Smith were published in the \"Nauvoo Expositor.\" Opposition led to a series of events culminating in murder of Smith and his brother while jailed in 1844.\nAs the church began openly practicing plural marriage under Brigham Young during the second half of the 19th century, the church became the target of nationwide criticism for that practice, as well as for the church's theocratic aspirations in the Utah Territory. Beginning in 1857, the church also came under significant media criticism after the Mountain Meadows massacre in southern Utah.\n\nAcademic critics have questioned the legitimacy of Smith as a prophet as well as the historical authenticity of the Book of Mormon and the Book of Abraham. Criticism has expanded to include claims of historical revisionism, homophobia, racism, and sexist policies. Notable 20th-century critics include Jerald and Sandra Tanner and historian Fawn Brodie. Evangelical Christians continue to argue that Smith was either fraudulent or delusional.\n\nMormon apologetics organizations, such as the Foundation for Apologetic Information & Research (FAIR) and the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (FARMS), have been founded to counter these criticisms. Most of the apologetic work focuses on providing and discussing evidence supporting the claims of Smith and the Book of Mormon. It also criticizes what it considers to be a lack of honesty when it comes to the scholarship of non-Mormon critics. Scholars and authors such as Hugh Nibley, Daniel C. Peterson, Jeff Lindsay, Orson Scott Card, and James E. Talmage are well-known apologists within the church.\n\nDuring the civil rights era of the 1960s and 1970s, the LDS Church was criticized for its policy of excluding black men of African descent from the priesthood, a policy that the church changed in 1978. In more recent years, the Internet has provided a new forum for proponents and critics of religions, including the LDS Church.\n\nThe church's support in 2008 of California's Proposition 8 sparked heated debate and protest by gay-rights organizations and others. The church expressed support for a Salt Lake City ordinance protecting members of the LGBT community against discrimination in employment and housing while allowing religious institutions to consider lifestyles in actions such as hiring or providing university accommodations. Further controversy resulted in late 2015, when the church changed its guidance to lay leaders about same-sex unions and about minor children living in the home of a parent in a same-sex relationship, whether natural or adopted. The policy says that these children should only be baptized after reaching legal age, and only if they do not live with parents who are in a same-sex cohabitation or marriage. In addition, it says that these children should reject the practice of homosexual marriage or cohabitation. The church says that this baptism policy is designed to protect children.\n\nJewish groups criticized the LDS Church in 1995 after discovering that vicarious baptisms for the dead for victims of the Holocaust had been performed by members of the church. After that criticism, church leaders put a policy in place to stop the practice, with an exception for baptisms specifically requested or approved by victims' relatives. Jewish organizations again criticized the church in 2002, 2004, 2008, and 2012 stating that the church failed to honor the 1995 agreement. The LDS Church says it has put institutional safeguards in place to avoid the submission of the names of Holocaust victims not related to Mormon members, but that the sheer number of names submitted makes policing the database of names impractical.\n\nDue to doctrinal differences, the LDS Church is generally considered to be distinct and separate from mainstream Christianity by Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant churches, which express differences with one another but consider each other's churches to be Christian. Many have accused the LDS Church of not being a Christian church at all as a result of disagreements with Apostolic succession and the \"Great Apostasy\", the Nicene Creed, separation of the Godhead and, more so, Mormon cosmology and its Plan of Salvation including the doctrines of pre-mortal life, baptism for the dead, three degrees of heaven, and exaltation, the LDS view of theosis.\n\n\n\n\nOfficial church websites\n\nOther sites\n"}
{"id": "52987410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52987410", "title": "The Wolf Award", "text": "The Wolf Award\n\nThe Wolf Award is an accolade conferred by a non-profit organization known as The Wolf Project to individuals, organizations, and communities in recognition of their efforts to improve racial tolerance and understanding. The Wolf Award, which has also come to be known as The International Wolf Award, consists of a certificate of appreciation and a sculpture of a howling wolf, presented in ceremonial fashion to the recipient. \n\nThe symbol of the wolf was chosen because the founders of The Wolf Project felt that wolves serve as a reminder that society's survival depends upon cooperation and collaboration. \n\nThe Wolf Project was developed by Heather Acres and Beatrice MacTavish of Flin Flon, Manitoba, and was initiated with the hope that by acknowledging the efforts of those striving to ameliorate relations between diverse cultures and peoples, others would be encouraged to become involved. For their work, Acres received the Governor General of Canada's Meritorious Service Award, and MacTavish received the Manitoba Provincial Order of the Buffalo Hunt.\n\nSome recipients of The Wolf Award are listed as follows:\n\nThe Edmonton Police Service, for promoting positive relations between cultural communities, and for establishing the Oskayak Police Academy, which provides aboriginal youth hands-on experiences with police in a culturally sensitive environment. The Police Service was nominated for the award by aboriginal community leaders. It was presented October 26, 2016 in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nChief Arvol Looking Horse was presented The Wolf Award in 1996 for his work promoting racial equality and social justice. He is the spiritual leader of the Lakota, Dakota, and Nakota Nations and the 19th generation keeper of the Sacred White Buffalo Calf Pipe.\n\nElder William Commanda (1913 - 2011) received The Wolf Award for his efforts promoting intercultural understanding and racial harmony. Elder Commanda was Keeper of the Seven Fires Prophecy Belt, which dates back to the 15th century and purportedly teaches the history of the indigenous peoples of North America. The Wolf was presented to Elder Commanda in November, 1998 by members of the Algonquin Nation on the River Desert Reserve in Maniwaki, Quebec.\n\nChrist Church Cathedral, Ottawa. The congregation of Christ Church Cathedral was honored with The Wolf Award for their support of the Noongam Traditional Pow Wow, held annually in Ottawa, Ontario. The pow wow provides aboriginal and non-aboriginal people a venue to share and experience diverse aspects of aboriginal culture. The award was presented in April, 2005 by William Commanda and Wolf Project co-founder Beatrice MacTavish.\n\nProfessor Gracelyn Smallwood, recognized for her commitment to advancing the human rights of indigenous Australians, and for promoting, encouraging and honoring inter-racial harmony in Australia.\nThe award was presented in Toowoomba, Queensland at the University of South Queensland's Second World Indigenous Pathways Conference in November, 1998 by aboriginal rights advocates Elijah Harper of Canada and Angela Mulgrew of Australia.\n\nMinnijean Brown-Trickey, for her contributions to improving race relations. Minnijean was one of nine African-American students who enrolled in the all-white Little Rock Central High School in 1957. The students, who later came to be known as the Little Rock Nine, were able to face down an angry mob of white protesters and desegregate the school. Brown-Trickey later spent many years in Canada, where she became an advocate for aboriginal peoples. She received The Wolf Award in June, 1998 in Hull, Quebec.\n\nNelson Mandela (1918 - 2013) received The Wolf Award for his work in human rights advocacy. The wolf sculpture was presented in 1995 in South Africa by Canadian aboriginal leaders Phil Fontaine and George Muswagon, and was kept by Mr. Mandela in a place of honor just outside his office door.\n\nAny individual, organization, or community is eligible to receive The Wolf Award, if they work to improve racial tolerance and understanding, and are nominated.\n\n"}
{"id": "30795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30795", "title": "Thomas Paine", "text": "Thomas Paine\n\nThomas Paine (born Thomas Pain) – June 8, 1809) was an English-born American political activist, philosopher, political theorist and revolutionary. One of the Founding Fathers of the United States, he authored the two most influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution and inspired the patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain.\n\nHis ideas reflected Enlightenment-era ideals of transnational human rights. Saul K. Padover described him as \"a corsetmaker by trade, a journalist by profession, and a propagandist by inclination\".\n\nBorn in Thetford in the English county of Norfolk, Paine migrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin, arriving just in time to participate in the American Revolution. Virtually every rebel read (or listened to a reading of) his powerful pamphlet \"Common Sense\" (1776), proportionally the all-time best-selling American title, which crystallized the rebellious demand for independence from Great Britain. His \"The American Crisis\" (1776–1783) was a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series. \"Common Sense\" was so influential that John Adams said: \"Without the pen of the author of \"Common Sense\", the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain\".\n\nPaine lived in France for most of the 1790s, becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution. He wrote \"Rights of Man\" (1791), in part a defense of the French Revolution against its critics. His attacks on Irish conservative writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction \"in absentia\" in England in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel.\n\nThe British government of William Pitt the Younger, worried by the possibility that the French Revolution might spread to England, had begun suppressing works that espoused radical philosophies. Paine's work, which advocated the right of the people to overthrow their government, was duly targeted, with a writ for his arrest issued in early 1792. Paine fled to France in September where, rather immediately and despite not being able to speak French, he was elected to the French National Convention. The Girondists regarded him as an ally. Consequently, the Montagnards, especially Maximilien Robespierre, regarded him as an enemy.\n\nIn December 1793, he was arrested and was taken to Luxembourg Prison in Paris. While in prison, he continued to work on \"The Age of Reason\" (1793–1794). Future President James Monroe used his diplomatic connections to get Paine released in November 1794. He became notorious because of his pamphlets \"The Age of Reason\", in which he advocated deism, promoted reason and free thought and argued against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular. He published the pamphlet \"Agrarian Justice\" (1797), discussing the origins of property and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income. In 1802, he returned to the U.S. where he died on June 8, 1809. Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity.\n\nThomas Paine was born on January 29, 1736 the son of Joseph and Frances () Pain, in Thetford, Norfolk, England. Joseph was a Quaker and Frances an Anglican. Despite claims that Thomas changed the spelling of his family name upon his emigration to America in 1774, he was using \"Paine\" in 1769, while still in Lewes, Sussex.\n\nHe attended Thetford Grammar School (1744–1749), at a time when there was no compulsory education. At the age of 13, he was apprenticed to his stay-maker father. Paine researchers contend his father's occupation has been widely misinterpreted to mean that he made the stays in ladies' corsets, which likely was an insult later invented by his political foes. The father and apprentice son actually made the thick rope stays (also called stay ropes) used on sailing ships. Thetford historically had maintained a brisk trade with the downriver, then major, port town of King's Lynn. \n\nA connection to shipping and the sea explains why, in late adolescence, Thomas enlisted and briefly served as a privateer, before returning to Britain in 1759. There, he became a master stay-maker, establishing a shop in Sandwich, Kent.\n\nOn September 27, 1759, Thomas Paine married Mary Lambert. His business collapsed soon after. Mary became pregnant; and, after they moved to Margate, she went into early labor, in which she and their child died.\n\nIn July 1761, Paine returned to Thetford to work as a supernumerary officer. In December 1762, he became an Excise Officer in Grantham, Lincolnshire; in August 1764, he was transferred to Alford, also in Lincolnshire, at a salary of £50 per annum. On August 27, 1765, he was dismissed as an Excise Officer for \"claiming to have inspected goods he did not inspect\". On July 31, 1766, he requested his reinstatement from the Board of Excise, which they granted the next day, upon vacancy. While awaiting that, he worked as a stay-maker. Again, he was making stay ropes for shipping, not stays for corsets.\n\nIn 1767, he was appointed to a position in Grampound, Cornwall. Later he asked to leave this post to await a vacancy, and he became a schoolteacher in London.\n\nOn February 19, 1768, he was appointed to Lewes in Sussex, a town with a tradition of opposition to the monarchy and pro-republican sentiments since the revolutionary decades of the 17th century. Here he lived above the 15th-century Bull House, the tobacco shop of Samuel Ollive and Esther Ollive.\n\nPaine first became involved in civic matters when he was based in Lewes. He appears in the Town Book as a member of the Court Leet, the governing body for the town. He was also a member of the parish vestry, an influential local church group whose responsibilities for parish business would include collecting taxes and tithes to distribute among the poor. On March 26, 1771, at age 34, he married Elizabeth Ollive, his landlord's daughter.\nFrom 1772 to 1773, Paine joined excise officers asking Parliament for better pay and working conditions, publishing, in summer of 1772, \"The Case of the Officers of Excise\", a 12-page article, and his first political work, spending the London winter distributing the 4,000 copies printed to the Parliament and others. In spring 1774, he was again dismissed from the excise service for being absent from his post without permission; his tobacco shop failed, too. On April 14, to avoid debtors' prison, he sold his household possessions to pay debts. On June 4, 1774, he formally separated from his wife Elizabeth and moved to London, where, in September, mathematician, Fellow of the Royal Society, and Commissioner of the Excise George Lewis Scott introduced him to Benjamin Franklin, who suggested emigration to British colonial America, and gave him a letter of recommendation. In October, Paine emigrated to the American colonies, arriving in Philadelphia on November 30, 1774.\n\nPaine barely survived the transatlantic voyage. The ship's water supplies were bad and typhoid fever killed five passengers. On arriving at Philadelphia, he was too sick to disembark. Benjamin Franklin's physician, there to welcome Paine to America, had him carried off ship; Paine took six weeks to recover. He became a citizen of Pennsylvania \"by taking the oath of allegiance at a very early period\". In March 1775, he became editor of the \"Pennsylvania Magazine\", a position he conducted with considerable ability.\n\nBefore Paine's arrival in America, sixteen magazines had been founded in the colonies and ultimately failed, each featuring substantial content and reprints from England. In late 1774, Philadelphia printer Robert Aitken announced his plan to create what he called an \"American Magazine\" with content derived from the colonies. Paine contributed two pieces to the magazine's inaugural issue in February 1775, and Aitken hired Paine as the Magazine's editor one month later. Under Paine's leadership, the magazine's readership rapidly expanded, achieving a greater circulation in the colonies than any American magazine up until that point. While Aiken had conceived of the magazine as nonpolitical, Paine brought a strong political perspective to its content, writing in its first issue that \"every heart and hand seem to be engaged in the interesting struggle for \"American Liberty.\"\"\n\nPaine wrote in the \"Pennsylvania Magazine\" that such a publication should become a \"nursery of genius\" to help America \"outgrow the state of infancy,\" exercising and educating American minds, and shaping American morality.\n\nOn March 8 1775, the \"Pennsylvania Magazine\" published an unsigned abolitionist essay titled \"African Slavery in America\". The essay is often attributed to Paine on the basis of a letter by Benjamin Rush, recalling Paine's claim of authorship to the essay. The essay attacked slavery as an \"execrable commerce\" and \"outrage against Humanity and Justice.\"\n\nConsciously appealing to a broader and more working class audience, Paine also used the magazine to discuss worker rights to production. This shift in the conceptualization of politics has been described as a part of \"the 'modernization' of political consciousness,\" and the mobilization of ever greater sections of society into political life.\n\nPaine has a claim to the title \"The Father of the American Revolution\", which rests on his pamphlets, especially \"Common Sense,\" which crystallized sentiment for independence in 1776. It was published in Philadelphia on January 10, 1776, and signed anonymously \"by an Englishman\". It became an immediate success, quickly spreading 100,000 copies in three months to the two million residents of the 13 colonies. During the course of the American Revolution, a total of about 500,000 copies were sold, including unauthorized editions. Paine's original title for the pamphlet was \"Plain Truth\", but Paine's friend, pro-independence advocate Benjamin Rush, suggested \"Common Sense\" instead.\n\nThe pamphlet came into circulation in January 1776, after the Revolution had started. It was passed around and often read aloud in taverns, contributing significantly to spreading the idea of republicanism, bolstering enthusiasm for separation from Britain, and encouraging recruitment for the Continental Army. Paine provided a new and convincing argument for independence by advocating a complete break with history. \"Common Sense\" is oriented to the future in a way that compels the reader to make an immediate choice. It offers a solution for Americans disgusted with and alarmed at the threat of tyranny.\n\nPaine's attack on monarchy in \"Common Sense\" is essentially an attack on George III. Whereas colonial resentments were originally directed primarily against the king's ministers and Parliament, Paine laid the responsibility firmly at the king's door. \"Common Sense\" was the most widely read pamphlet of the American Revolution. It was a clarion call for unity against the corrupt British court, so as to realize America's providential role in providing an asylum for liberty. Written in a direct and lively style, it denounced the decaying despotisms of Europe and pilloried hereditary monarchy as an absurdity. At a time when many still hoped for reconciliation with Britain, \"Common Sense\" demonstrated to many the inevitability of separation.\n\nPaine was not on the whole expressing original ideas in \"Common Sense\", but rather employing rhetoric as a means to arouse resentment of the Crown. To achieve these ends, he pioneered a style of political writing suited to the democratic society he envisioned, with \"Common Sense\" serving as a primary example. Part of Paine's work was to render complex ideas intelligible to average readers of the day, with clear, concise writing unlike the formal, learned style favored by many of Paine's contemporaries. Scholars have put forward various explanations to account for its success, including the historic moment, Paine's easy-to-understand style, his democratic ethos, and his use of psychology and ideology.\n\n\"Common Sense\" was immensely popular in disseminating to a very wide audience ideas that were already in common use among the elite who comprised Congress and the leadership cadre of the emerging nation, who rarely cited Paine's arguments in their public calls for independence. The pamphlet probably had little direct influence on the Continental Congress' decision to issue a Declaration of Independence, since that body was more concerned with how declaring independence would affect the war effort. One distinctive idea in \"Common Sense\" is Paine's beliefs regarding the peaceful nature of republics; his views were an early and strong conception of what scholars would come to call the democratic peace theory.\n\nLoyalists vigorously attacked \"Common Sense\"; one attack, titled \"Plain Truth\" (1776), by Marylander James Chalmers, said Paine was a political quack and warned that without monarchy, the government would \"degenerate into democracy\". Even some American revolutionaries objected to \"Common Sense\"; late in life John Adams called it a \"crapulous mass\". Adams disagreed with the type of radical democracy promoted by Paine (that men who did not own property should still be allowed to vote and hold public office) and published \"Thoughts on Government\" in 1776 to advocate a more conservative approach to republicanism.\n\nSophia Rosenfeld argues that Paine was highly innovative in his use of the commonplace notion of \"common sense\". He synthesized various philosophical and political uses of the term in a way that permanently impacted American political thought. He used two ideas from Scottish Common Sense Realism: that ordinary people can indeed make sound judgments on major political issues, and that there exists a body of popular wisdom that is readily apparent to anyone. Paine also used a notion of \"common sense\" favored by philosophes in the Continental Enlightenment. They held that common sense could refute the claims of traditional institutions. Thus, Paine used \"common sense\" as a weapon to delegitimize the monarchy and overturn prevailing conventional wisdom. Rosenfeld concludes that the phenomenal appeal of his pamphlet resulted from his synthesis of popular and elite elements in the independence movement.\n\nAccording to historian Robert Middlekauff, \"Common Sense\" became immensely popular mainly because Paine appealed to widespread convictions. Monarchy, he said, was preposterous and it had a heathenish origin. It was an institution of the devil. Paine pointed to the Old Testament, where almost all kings had seduced the Israelites to worship idols instead of God. Paine also denounced aristocracy, which together with monarchy were \"two ancient tyrannies.\" They violated the laws of nature, human reason, and the \"universal order of things,\" which began with God. That was, Middlekauff says, exactly what most Americans wanted to hear. He calls the Revolutionary generation \"the children of the twice-born\". because in their childhood they had experienced the Great Awakening, which, for the first time, had tied Americans together, transcending denominational and ethnic boundaries and giving them a sense of patriotism.\n\nIn late 1776, Paine published \"The American Crisis\" pamphlet series to inspire the Americans in their battles against the British army. He juxtaposed the conflict between the good American devoted to civic virtue and the selfish provincial man. To inspire his soldiers, General George Washington had \"The American Crisis\", first \"Crisis\" pamphlet, read aloud to them. It begins:\n\nIn 1777, Paine became secretary of the Congressional Committee on Foreign Affairs. The following year, he alluded to secret negotiation underway with France in his pamphlets. His enemies denounced his indiscretions. There was scandal; together with Paine's conflict with Robert Morris and Silas Deane it led to Paine's expulsion from the Committee in 1779.\n\nHowever, in 1781, he accompanied John Laurens on his mission to France. Eventually, after much pleading from Paine, New York State recognized his political services by presenting him with an estate at New Rochelle, New York and Paine received money from Pennsylvania and from Congress at Washington's suggestion. During the Revolutionary War, Paine served as an aide-de-camp to the important general, Nathanael Greene.\n\nIn what may have been an error, and perhaps even contributed to his resignation as the secretary to the Committee of Foreign Affairs, Paine was openly critical of Silas Deane, an American diplomat who had been appointed in March 1776 by the Congress to travel to France in secret. Deane's goal was to influence the French government to finance the colonists in their fight for independence. Paine largely saw Deane as a war profiteer who had little respect for principle, having been under the employ of Robert Morris, one of the primary financiers of the American Revolution and working with Pierre Beaumarchais, a French royal agent sent to the colonies by King Louis to investigate the Anglo-American conflict. Paine labelled Deane as unpatriotic, and demanded that there be a public investigation into Morris' financing of the Revolution, as he had contracted with his own company for around $500,000.\n\nUnfortunately, Paine's criticisms turned against him. Amongst his criticisms, he had written in the \"Pennsylvania Packet\" that France had \"\"prefaced [their] alliance by an early and generous friendship\",\" referring to aid that had been provided to American colonies prior to the recognition of the Franco-American treaties. This was effectively an embarrassment to France, which potentially could have jeopardised the alliance. John Jay, the President of the Congress who had been a fervent supporter of Deane, immediately spoke out against Paine's comments. The controversy eventually became public, and Paine was then denounced as unpatriotic for criticising an American revolutionary. He was even physically assaulted twice in the street by Deane supporters. This much added stress took a large toll on Paine, who was generally of a sensitive character and he resigned as secretary to the Committee of Foreign Affairs in 1779.\n\nPaine accompanied Col. John Laurens to France and is credited with initiating the mission. It landed in France in March 1781 and returned to America in August with 2.5 million livres in silver, as part of a \"present\" of 6 million and a loan of 10 million. The meetings with the French king were most likely conducted in the company and under the influence of Benjamin Franklin. Upon returning to the United States with this highly welcomed cargo, Thomas Paine and probably Col. Laurens, \"positively objected\" that General Washington should propose that Congress remunerate him for his services, for fear of setting \"a bad precedent and an improper mode\". Paine made influential acquaintances in Paris and helped organize the Bank of North America to raise money to supply the army. In 1785, he was given $3,000 by the U.S. Congress in recognition of his service to the nation.\n\nHenry Laurens (father of Col. John Laurens) had been the ambassador to the Netherlands, but he was captured by the British on his return trip there. When he was later exchanged for the prisoner Lord Cornwallis (in late 1781), Paine proceeded to the Netherlands to continue the loan negotiations. There remains some question as to the relationship of Henry Laurens and Thomas Paine to Robert Morris as the Superintendent of Finance and his business associate Thomas Willing who became the first president of the Bank of North America (in January 1782). They had accused Morris of profiteering in 1779 and Willing had voted against the Declaration of Independence. Although Morris did much to restore his reputation in 1780 and 1781, the credit for obtaining these critical loans to \"organize\" the Bank of North America for approval by Congress in December 1781 should go to Henry or John Laurens and Thomas Paine more than to Robert Morris.\nPaine bought his only house in 1783 on the corner of Farnsworth Avenue and Church Streets in Bordentown City, New Jersey and he lived in it periodically until his death in 1809. This is the only place in the world where Paine purchased real estate.\n\nIn 1787, a bridge of Paine's design was built across the Schuylkill River at Philadelphia. At this time his work on single-arch iron bridges led him back to Paris, France. Because Paine had few friends when arriving in France aside from Lafayette and Jefferson, he continued to correspond heavily with Benjamin Franklin, a long time friend and mentor. Franklin provided letters of introduction for Paine to use to gain associates and contacts in France.\n\nLater that year, Paine returned to London from Paris. He then released a pamphlet on August 20 called \"Prospects on the Rubicon: or, an investigation into the Causes and Consequences of the Politics to be Agitated at the Meeting of Parliament\". Tensions between England and France were increasing, and this pamphlet urged the British Ministry to reconsider the consequences of war with France. Paine sought to turn the public opinion against the war to create better relations between the countries, avoid the taxes of war upon the citizens, and not engage in a war he believed would ruin both nations.\n\nBack in London by 1787, Paine would become engrossed in the French Revolution after it began in 1789, and decided to travel to France in 1790. Meanwhile, conservative intellectual Edmund Burke launched a counterrevolutionary blast against the French Revolution, entitled \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), which strongly appealed to the landed class, and sold 30,000 copies. Paine set out to refute it in his \"Rights of Man\" (1791). He wrote it not as a quick pamphlet, but as a long, abstract political tract of 90,000 words which tore apart monarchies and traditional social institutions. On January 31, 1791, he gave the manuscript to publisher Joseph Johnson. A visit by government agents dissuaded Johnson, so Paine gave the book to publisher J.S. Jordan, then went to Paris, per William Blake's advice. He charged three good friends, William Godwin, Thomas Brand Hollis, and Thomas Holcroft, with handling publication details. The book appeared on March 13, 1791 and sold nearly a million copies. It was \"eagerly read by reformers, Protestant dissenters, democrats, London craftsman, and the skilled factory-hands of the new industrial north\".\n\nUndeterred by the government campaign to discredit him, Paine issued his \"Rights of Man, Part the Second, Combining Principle and Practice\" in February 1792. It detailed a representative government with enumerated social programs to remedy the numbing poverty of commoners through progressive tax measures. Radically reduced in price to ensure unprecedented circulation, it was sensational in its impact and gave birth to reform societies. An indictment for seditious libel followed, for both publisher and author, while government agents followed Paine and instigated mobs, hate meetings, and burnings in effigy. A fierce pamphlet war also resulted, in which Paine was defended and assailed in dozens of works. The authorities aimed, with ultimate success, to chase Paine out of Great Britain. He was then tried \"in absentia\" and found guilty, although never executed. The French translation of \"Rights of Man, Part II\" was published in April 1792. The translator, François Lanthenas, eliminated the dedication to Lafayette, as he believed Paine thought too highly of Lafayette, who was seen as a royalist sympathizer at the time.\nIn summer of 1792, he answered the sedition and libel charges thus: \"If, to expose the fraud and imposition of monarchy ... to promote universal peace, civilization, and commerce, and to break the chains of political superstition, and raise degraded man to his proper rank; if these things be libellous ... let the name of libeller be engraved on my tomb.\"\n\nPaine was an enthusiastic supporter of the French Revolution, and was granted honorary French citizenship alongside prominent contemporaries such as Alexander Hamilton, George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and others. Paine's honorary citizenship was in recognition of the publishing of his \"Rights of Man, Part II\" and the sensation it created within France. Despite his inability to speak French, he was elected to the National Convention, representing the district of Pas-de-Calais.\n\nSeveral weeks after his election to the National Convention, Paine was selected as one of nine deputies to be part of the Convention's Constitutional Committee, who were charged to draft a suitable constitution for the French Republic. He subsequentially participated in the Constitutional Committee in drafting the Girondin constitutional project. He voted for the French Republic, but argued against the execution of Louis XVI, saying the monarch should instead be exiled to the United States: firstly, because of the way royalist France had come to the aid of the American Revolution; and secondly, because of a moral objection to capital punishment in general and to revenge killings in particular. However, Paine's speech in defense of Louis XVI was interrupted by Jean-Paul Marat, who claimed that as a Quaker, Paine's religious beliefs ran counter to inflicting capital punishment and thus he should be ineligible to vote. Marat interrupted a second time, stating that the translator was deceiving the convention by distorting the meanings of Paine's words, prompting Paine to provide a copy of the speech as proof that he was being correctly translated.\n\nRegarded as an ally of the Girondins, he was seen with increasing disfavor by the Montagnards, who were now in power; and in particular by Maximilien Robespierre. A decree was passed at the end of 1793 excluding foreigners from their places in the Convention (Anacharsis Cloots was also deprived of his place). Paine was arrested and imprisoned in December 1793.\n\nPaine wrote the second part of \"Rights of Man\" on a desk in Thomas 'Clio' Rickman's house, with whom he was staying in 1792 before he fled to France. This desk is currently on display in the People's History Museum in Manchester.\n\nPaine was arrested in France on December 28, 1793. Joel Barlow was unsuccessful in securing Paine's release by circulating a petition among American residents in Paris. Sixteen American citizens were allowed to plead for Paine's release to the Convention, yet President Marc-Guillaume Alexis Vadier of the Committee of General Security refused to acknowledge Paine's American citizenship, stating he was an Englishman and a citizen of a country at war with France.\n\nPaine himself protested and claimed that he was a citizen of the U.S., which was an ally of Revolutionary France, rather than of Great Britain, which was by that time at war with France. However, Gouverneur Morris, the American minister to France, did not press his claim, and Paine later wrote that Morris had connived at his imprisonment. Paine narrowly escaped execution. A chalk mark was supposed to be left by the gaoler on the door of a cell to denote that the prisoner inside was due to be removed for execution. In Paine's case, the mark had accidentally been made on the inside of his door rather than the outside; this was due to the fact that the door of Paine's cell had been left open whilst the gaoler was making his rounds that day, since Paine had been receiving official visitors. But for this quirk of fate, Paine would have been executed the following morning. He kept his head and survived the few vital days needed to be spared by the fall of Robespierre on 9 Thermidor (July 27, 1794).\n\nPaine was released in November 1794 largely because of the work of the new American Minister to France, James Monroe, who successfully argued the case for Paine's American citizenship. In July 1795, he was re-admitted into the Convention, as were other surviving Girondins. Paine was one of only three députés to oppose the adoption of the new 1795 constitution because it eliminated universal suffrage, which had been proclaimed by the Montagnard Constitution of 1793.\n\nIn 1796, a bridge he designed was erected over the mouth of the Wear River at Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, England. This bridge, the Sunderland arch, was after the same design as his Schuylkill River Bridge in Philadelphia and it became the prototype for many subsequent voussoir arches made in iron and steel.\n\nIn addition to receiving a British patent for the single-span iron bridge, Paine developed a smokeless candle and worked with inventor John Fitch in developing steam engines.\n\nIn 1797, Paine lived in Paris with Nicholas Bonneville and his wife. As well as Bonneville's other controversial guests, Paine aroused the suspicions of authorities. Bonneville hid the Royalist Antoine Joseph Barruel-Beauvert at his home. Beauvert had been outlawed following the coup of 18 Fructidor on September 4, 1797. Paine believed that the United States under President John Adams had betrayed revolutionary France. Bonneville was then briefly jailed and his presses were confiscated, which meant financial ruin.\n\nIn 1800, still under police surveillance, Bonneville took refuge with his father in Evreux. Paine stayed on with him, helping Bonneville with the burden of translating the \"Covenant Sea\". The same year, Paine purportedly had a meeting with Napoleon. Napoleon claimed he slept with a copy of \"Rights of Man\" under his pillow and went so far as to say to Paine that \"a statue of gold should be erected to you in every city in the universe\". Paine discussed with Napoleon how best to invade England. In December 1797, he wrote two essays, one of which was pointedly named \"Observations on the Construction and Operation of Navies with a Plan for an Invasion of England and the Final Overthrow of the English Government\", in which he promoted the idea to finance 1,000 gunboats to carry a French invading army across the English Channel. In 1804, Paine returned to the subject, writing \"To the People of England on the Invasion of England\" advocating the idea. However, upon noting Napoleon's progress towards dictatorship, he condemned him as \"the completest charlatan that ever existed\". Paine remained in France until 1802, returning to the United States only at President Jefferson's invitation.\n\nPaine believed that U.S. President George Washington had conspired with Robespierre to imprison him. He had felt largely betrayed that Washington, who had been a lifelong friend, did nothing while Paine suffered in prison. While staying with Monroe, he planned to send Washington a letter of grievance on the former President's birthday. Monroe stopped the letter from being sent just in time and after Paine's criticism of the Jay Treaty Monroe suggested that Paine reside somewhere else.\n\nStill embittered by the perceived betrayal, Paine tried to ruin Washington's reputation by calling him a treacherous man who was unworthy of his fame as a military and political hero. He sent a stinging letter to Washington, in which he described him as an incompetent commander and a vain and ungrateful person. Paine never received a reply, so he contacted his lifelong publisher, the anti-Federalist Benjamin Bache to publish this \"Letter to George Washington\" in 1796. In this scathing publication, Paine wrote that \"the world will be puzzled to decide whether you are an apostate or an impostor; whether you have abandoned good principles or whether you ever had any\". He further wrote that without the aid of France, Washington could not have succeeded in the Revolution and had \"but little share in the glory of the final event\". He also commented on Washington's poor character, saying that Washington had no sympathetic feelings and was a hypocrite.\n\nIn 1802 or 1803, Paine left France for the United States, also paying the passage for Bonneville's wife Marguerite Brazier and the couple's three sons, Benjamin, Louis and Thomas Bonneville, to whom Paine was godfather. Paine returned to the United States in the early stages of the Second Great Awakening and a time of great political partisanship. The \"Age of Reason\" gave ample excuse for the religiously devout to dislike him and the Federalists attacked him for his ideas of government stated in \"Common Sense,\" for his association with the French Revolution and for his friendship with President Jefferson. Also still fresh in the minds of the public was his \"Letter to Washington\" published six years before his return. This was compounded when his right to vote was denied in New Rochelle on the grounds that Gouverneur Morris did not recognize him as an American and Washington had not aided him.\n\nBrazier took care of Paine at the end of his life and buried him after his death on June 8, 1809. In his will, Paine left the bulk of his estate to Marguerite, including 100 acres (40.5 ha) of his farm so she could maintain and educate Benjamin and his brother Thomas. In 1814, the fall of Napoleon finally allowed Bonneville to rejoin his wife in the United States where he remained for four years before returning to Paris to open a bookshop.\n\nOn the morning of June 8, 1809, Paine died, aged 72, at 59 Grove Street in Greenwich Village, New York City Although the original building is no longer there, the present building has a plaque noting that Paine died at this location.\n\nAfter his death, Paine's body was brought to New Rochelle, but the Quakers would not allow it to be buried in their graveyard as per his last will, so his remains were buried under a walnut tree on his farm. In 1819, English agrarian radical journalist William Cobbett, who in 1793 had published a hostile continuation of Francis Oldys (George Chalmer)'s \"The Life of Thomas Paine\", dug up his bones and transported them back to England with the intention to give Paine a heroic reburial on his native soil, but this never came to pass. The bones were still among Cobbett's effects when he died over twenty years later, but were later lost. There is no confirmed story about what happened to them after that, although various people have claimed throughout the years to own parts of Paine's remains, such as his skull and right hand.\n\nAt the time of his death, most American newspapers reprinted the obituary notice from the \"New York Evening Post\" that was in turn quoting from \"The American Citizen\", which read in part: \"He had lived long, did some good, and much harm\". Only six mourners came to his funeral, two of whom were black, most likely freedmen. Many years later the writer and orator Robert G. Ingersoll wrote:\n\nBiographer Eric Foner identifies a utopian thread in Paine's thought, writing: \"Through this new language he communicated a new vision—a utopian image of an egalitarian, republican society\".\n\nPaine's utopianism combined civic republicanism, belief in the inevitability of scientific and social progress and commitment to free markets and liberty generally. The multiple sources of Paine's political theory all pointed to a society based on the common good and individualism. Paine expressed a redemptive futurism or political messianism. Writing that his generation \"would appear to the future as the Adam of a new world\", Paine exemplified British utopianism.\n\nLater, his encounters with the Indigenous peoples of the Americas made a deep impression. The ability of the Iroquois to live in harmony with nature while achieving a democratic decision-making process helped him refine his thinking on how to organize society.\n\nOn March 8 1775, one month after Paine became the editor of \"The Pennsylvania Magazine\", the magazine published an anonymous article titled \"African Slavery in America\", the first prominent piece in the colonies proposing the emancipation of African-American slaves and the abolition of slavery.\n\nPaine is often credited with writing the piece, on the basis of later testimony by Benjamin Rush, cosigner of the Declaration of Independence. Citing a lack of further evidence of Paine's authorship however, scholars Eric Foner and Alfred Owen Aldridge no longer consider this one of his works. By contrast, journalist John Nichols writes that Paine's \"fervent objections to slavery\" led to his exclusion from power during the early years of the Republic.\n\nHis last pamphlet, \"Agrarian Justice\", published in the winter of 1795, opposed to agrarian law and to agrarian monopoly and further developed his ideas in the \"Rights of Man\" about how land ownership separated the majority of people from their rightful, natural inheritance and means of independent survival. The U.S. Social Security Administration recognizes \"Agrarian Justice\" as the first American proposal for an old-age pension and basic income or citizen's dividend. Per \"Agrarian Justice\":\n\nIn advocating the case of the persons thus dispossessed, it is a right, and not a charity ... [Government must] create a national fund, out of which there shall be paid to every person, when arrived at the age of twenty-one years, the sum of fifteen pounds sterling, as a compensation in part, for the loss of his or her natural inheritance, by the introduction of the system of landed property. And also, the sum of ten pounds per annum, during life, to every person now living, of the age of fifty years, and to all others as they shall arrive at that age.\n\nNote that £10 and £15 would be worth about £800 and £1,200 ($1,200 and $2,000) when adjusted for inflation (2011 British pounds sterling).\n\nLamb argues that Paine's analysis of property rights marks a distinct contribution to political theory. His theory of property defends a libertarian concern with private ownership that shows an egalitarian commitment. Paine's new justification of property sets him apart from previous theorists such as Hugo Grotius, Samuel von Pufendorf and John Locke. It demonstrates Paine's commitment to foundational liberal values of individual freedom and moral equality.\n\nBefore his arrest and imprisonment in France, knowing that he would probably be arrested and executed, following in the tradition of early eighteenth-century British deism Paine wrote the first part of \"The Age of Reason\", an assault on organized \"revealed\" religion combining a compilation of the many inconsistencies he found in the Bible.\n\nAbout his own religious beliefs, Paine wrote in \"The Age of Reason\":\n\nThough there is no evidence Paine himself was a Freemason, upon his return to America from France he also penned \"An Essay on the Origin of Free-Masonry\" (1803–1805) about Freemasonry being derived from the religion of the ancient Druids. In the essay, he stated: \"The Christian religion is a parody on the worship of the sun, in which they put a man called Christ in the place of the sun, and pay him the adoration originally paid to the sun\". Marguerite de Bonneville published the essay in 1810 after Paine's death, but she chose to omit certain passages from it that were critical of Christianity, most of which were restored in an 1818 printing.\n\nWhile Paine never described himself as a deist, he did write the following:The opinions I have advanced ... are the effect of the most clear and long-established conviction that the Bible and the Testament are impositions upon the world, that the fall of man, the account of Jesus Christ being the Son of God, and of his dying to appease the wrath of God, and of salvation, by that strange means, are all fabulous inventions, dishonorable to the wisdom and power of the Almighty; that the only true religion is Deism, by which I then meant, and mean now, the belief of one God, and an imitation of his moral character, or the practice of what are called moral virtuesand that it was upon this only (so far as religion is concerned) that I rested all my hopes of happiness hereafter. So say I nowand so help me God.\n\nPaine's writing greatly influenced his contemporaries and especially the American revolutionaries. His books provoked an upsurge in deism in the United States, but in the long term inspired philosophic and working-class radicals in the United Kingdom and United States. Liberals, libertarians, left-libertarians, feminists, democratic socialists, social democrats, anarchists, free thinkers and progressives often claim him as an intellectual ancestor. Paine's critique of institutionalized religion and advocacy of rational thinking influenced many British free thinkers of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, such as William Cobbett, George Holyoake, Charles Bradlaugh, Christopher Hitchens and Bertrand Russell.\n\nThe quote \"Lead, follow, or get out of the way\" is widely but incorrectly attributed to Paine. This can be found nowhere in his published works.\n\nWhen Abraham Lincoln was 26 years old in 1835, he wrote a defense of Paine's deism and a political associate, Samuel Hill, burned it to save Lincoln's political career. Historian Roy Basler, the editor of Lincoln's papers, said Paine had a strong influence on Lincoln's style:\n\nNo other writer of the eighteenth century, with the exception of Jefferson, parallels more closely the temper or gist of Lincoln's later thought. In style, Paine above all others affords the variety of eloquence which, chastened and adapted to Lincoln's own mood, is revealed in Lincoln's formal writings.\n\nThe inventor Thomas Edison said:\n\nI have always regarded Paine as one of the greatest of all Americans. Never have we had a sounder intelligence in this republic ... It was my good fortune to encounter Thomas Paine's works in my boyhood ... it was, indeed, a revelation to me to read that great thinker's views on political and theological subjects. Paine educated me, then, about many matters of which I had never before thought. I remember, very vividly, the flash of enlightenment that shone from Paine's writings, and I recall thinking, at that time, 'What a pity these works are not today the schoolbooks for all children!' My interest in Paine was not satisfied by my first reading of his works. I went back to them time and again, just as I have done since my boyhood days.\n\nIn 1811, Venezuelan translator Manuel Garcia de Sena published a book in Philadelphia which consisted mostly of Spanish translations of several of Paine's most important works. The book also included translations of the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, the U.S. Constitution and the constitutions of five U.S. states.\n\nIt subsequently circulated widely in South America and through it Uruguayan national hero José Gervasio Artigas became familiar with and embraced Paine's ideas. In turn, many of Artigas's writings drew directly from Paine's, including the \"Instructions of 1813\", which Uruguayans consider to be one of their country's most important constitutional documents. It was one of the earliest writings to articulate a principled basis for an identity independent of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe first and longest-standing memorial to Paine is the carved and inscribed 12 foot marble column in New Rochelle, New York organized and funded by publisher, educator and reformer Gilbert Vale (1791–1866) and raised in 1839 by the American sculptor and architect John Frazee – the Thomas Paine Monument (see image below).\n\nNew Rochelle is also the original site of Thomas Paine's Cottage, which along with a 320-acre (130 ha) farm were presented to Paine in 1784 by act of the New York State Legislature for his services in the American Revolution.\n\nThe same site is the home of the Thomas Paine Memorial Museum. Thomas Edison helped to turn the first shovel of earth for the museum which serves as a museum to display both Paine relics as well as others of local historical interest. A large collection of books, pamphlets and pictures is contained in the Paine library, including many first editions of Paine's works as well as several original manuscripts. These holdings, the subject of a sell-off controversy, were temporarily relocated to the New-York Historical Society and have since been more permanently archived in the Iona College library nearby.\n\nPaine was originally buried near the current location of his house and monument upon his death in 1809. The site is marked by a small headstone and burial plaque even though his remains were removed years later.\n\nIn the 20th century, Joseph Lewis, longtime president of the Freethinkers of America and an ardent Paine admirer, was instrumental in having larger-than-life-sized statues of Paine erected in each of the three countries with which the revolutionary writer was associated. The first, created by Mount Rushmore sculptor Gutzon Borglum, was erected in Paris just before World War II began, but not formally dedicated until 1948. It depicts Paine standing before the French National Convention to plead for the life of King Louis XVI. The second, sculpted in 1950 by Georg J. Lober, was erected near Paine's one time home in Morristown, New Jersey. It shows a seated Paine using a drum-head as a makeshift table. The third, sculpted by Sir Charles Wheeler, President of the Royal Academy, was erected in 1964 in Paine's birthplace, Thetford, England. With quill pen in his right hand and an inverted copy of \"The Rights of Man\" in his left, it occupies a prominent spot on King Street. Thomas Paine was ranked No. 34 in the \"100 Greatest Britons\" 2002 extensive Nationwide poll conducted by the BBC.\n\nA bronze plaque attached to the wall of Thetford's Thomas Paine hotel gives details of Paine's life. It was placed there in 1943 by voluntary contributions from U.S. airmen from a nearby bomber base. Texas folklorist and freethinker J. Frank Dobie, then teaching at Cambridge University, participated in the dedication ceremonies.\n\nIn New York City, the Thomas Paine Park is marked by a fountain called The Triumph of the Human Spirit. Located in downtown Manhattan, near City Hall, the 300-ton-plus monument was dedicated on October 12, 2000.\n\nBronx Community College includes Paine in its Hall of Fame of Great Americans and there are statues of Paine in Morristown and Bordentown, New Jersey and in the Parc Montsouris, in Paris.\n\nIn Paris, there is a plaque in the street where he lived from 1797 to 1802 that says: \"Thomas PAINE / 1737–1809 / Englishman by birth / American by adoption / French by decree\".\n\nYearly, between July 4 and 14, the Lewes Town Council in the United Kingdom celebrates the life and work of Paine.\n\nIn the early 1990s, largely through the efforts of citizen activist David Henley of Virginia, legislation (S.Con.Res 110 and H.R. 1628) was introduced in the 102nd Congress by ideological opposites Sen. Steve Symms (R-ID) and Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY). With over 100 formal letters of endorsement by United States and foreign historians, philosophers and organizations, including the Thomas Paine National Historical Society, the legislation garnered 78 original co-sponsors in the Senate and 230 original co-sponsors in the House of Representatives, and was consequently passed by both houses' unanimous consent. In October 1992, the legislation was signed into law (PL102-407 and PL102-459) by President George H. W. Bush authorizing the construction by using private funds of a memorial to Thomas Paine in \"Area 1\" of the grounds of the U.S. Capitol. , the memorial has not yet been built.\n\nThe University of East Anglia's Norwich Business School is housed in the Thomas Paine Study Centre on its Norwich campus in Paine's home county of Norfolk.\n\nThe Cookes House is reputed to have been his home during the Second Continental Congress at York, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWorks\n"}
{"id": "579504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579504", "title": "Timeline of the 2004 United States presidential election", "text": "Timeline of the 2004 United States presidential election\n\nThe following is a timeline of events during the 2004 U.S. presidential election:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis page contains a timeline of the 2004 U.S. presidential election. For a more in-depth discussion of the candidates and issues at stake in that election and the campaign history leading up to election day, see U.S. presidential election, 2004. For information on other races conducted the same day, see U.S. Senate election, 2004 and U.S. House election, 2004. For an explanation of the U.S. presidential election process see U.S. Electoral College.\n\nThe U.S. presidential election occurred on November 2, 2004. However, as in the 2000 U.S. election, the election was too close for a winner to be declared that night. By the next morning, the Republican campaign was declaring a victory while the results in several states remained too close for the media to declare winners. Soon afterward the Kerry campaign decided that there were not enough uncounted votes in Ohio for them to win that state and Kerry telephoned Bush to concede. At 2 p.m. EST, Kerry held a news conference announcing the same. An hour later, Bush held his own to accept his victory.\n\nIn Ohio, the Libertarian and Green parties raised $113,600 necessary to fund a recount of the popular vote, which took place in early December and upheld the Bush victory in that state.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStart of count of provisional ballots in Ohio. By Ohio law, provisional ballots are counted starting 10 days after the election.\n\n\n\nAs of November 10, there were 31,515 reported incidents of voting problems nationally, with approx. 350 new incidents being reported a day. One-third of the problems (12,074) involved voter registration, followed by \"polling place inquiries\" (7,073), absentee ballot-related problems (3,218) and machine problems (1,599). The latter included complaints that some machines registered votes for George W. Bush when the voter selected John Kerry.\n\nSome allege that voting locations that used electronic voting machines that did not issue a paper receipt or offer auditability correlate geographically with areas that had unilateral discrepancies between exit poll numbers and actual results. Exit polling data in these areas show significantly higher support for Kerry than actual results (outside the margin of error). Some are concerned that, from a statistical perspective, this may be indicative of vote rigging, because the likelihood of this happening by chance is less than 1 in 50,000. Others point out this could be explained by poor exit polling techniques or all discrepancies may be within the margin of error.\n\nThe first map shows the counties that voted democratic in the 2004 election. The dark blue counties are the most densely populated counties in Florida. The second map shows the Florida counties where absentee voting problems were reported. Orange counties had between 10 and 100 reported problems. The third map shows the Florida counties that use touch-screen electronic voting machines in red. The fourth map shows the Florida counties in which machine problems were reported. Incidents reports for Palm Beach, Broward County, Miami-Dade, and others are available at.\nThe above map shows all reported election incidents. The dark red states have over 1,000 reported incidents, red states have >100, orange have >10, yellow have >1. An interactive map is available at voteprotect.org.\n\nThese are links to maps:\nTimeline of Poll Closings and Network Calls map,\nBBC News map, CBC News map, CBS News map, CNN.com map, Fox News map, NPR News map, The New York Times map\n\n\"Map Legend:\" Unless otherwise noted on results maps the color red represents the Republican Party, and the color blue represents the Democratic Party.\n\nEach state submitted their official election results to the president of the Senate and the National Archivist. The following results are from these Certificates of Ascertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "8912941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8912941", "title": "Turner Controversy", "text": "Turner Controversy\n\nThe Turner Controversy was a dispute within the Socialist Party of Great Britain regarding the nature of socialism instigated by Tony Turner. The dispute ultimately led to an exodus of members who went on to form the short-lived Movement for Social Integration.\n\nWhen membership and activity was at a peak in the period after the Second World War, Turner began giving lectures for the Party on what socialism would be like. The content of these lectures led\nhim to develop a position that caused enormous controversy in the Party by the early to mid-1950s and which was elaborated by Turner and his supporters in articles in the Party’s internal discussion journal of the time, \"Forum\".\n\nThree interlocking propositions underpinned the ‘Turnerite’ viewpoint:\nThis view was in direct contradiction to the Party's Declaration of Principles, which identifies socialism as being the product of the class struggle and which states that the socialist\nmovement will organise for the capture of political power, including power over the state’s coercive machinery, should it need to be used against a recalcitrant anti-socialist minority.\n\nA series of acrimonious disputes between the ‘Turnerites’ and the majority of the Party culminated in a Party referendum and then a resolution being carried at the 1955 Party Conference to the effect that all members not in agreement with the Declaration of Principles be asked to resign. Turner, having survived a previous attempt to expel him, promptly did so, along with a number of other\nmembers including Joan Lestor (later to become a Labour minister) and the psychologist John Rowan. Some of these ex-members formed a short-lived Movement for Social Integration, though the impact the dispute had on the Party as a whole was almost entirely disruptive and negative. Indeed, it did not recover its vitality for some years, until the wave of radicalisation that grew up in the late 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23839430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23839430", "title": "United Farmers of Quebec", "text": "United Farmers of Quebec\n\nThe United Farmers of Quebec (\"Fermiers unis du Québec\") were founded in 1920 as part of the broader United Farmers movement in of Canada.\n\nThe genesis of the organization was in protests resulting from the Conscription Crisis of 1917 against the attempt of Robert Borden's federal government to conscript farm youths into the Canadian military during World War I. Quebec farmers organized a large demonstration on Parliament Hill in Ottawa on May 15, 1918 bringing them into contact with the United Farmers national movement. \n\nThe Quebec farmers organized 20 associations in western Quebec and in September 1918 organized the \nInterprovincial Union of Farmers as an umbrella group. A conference held in Montreal in January 1920 transformed this group into the United Farmers of Québec which, by 1921, had 5,000 members in 20 counties. \n\nIn 1921, the United Farmers and the \"Union des cultivateurs du Québec\" formed the \"Parti fermier-progressiste du Québec\" (Progressive Farmers of Québec) with the support of Joseph-Noé Ponton and the \"Bulletin des agriculteurs\". \n\nThe party was inspired by both the program of the Progressive Party of Canada (the political party of the national United Farmers movement) and the nationalism of Henri Bourassa.\n\nThe party supported 21 candidates, most of whom ran in conjunction with the Progressive Party of Canada in the 1921 federal election, but none were elected. The farmers' candidates won 42,000 votes, or 11% of the total in Quebec. \n\nBy 1924, the group had been overshadowed by the more conservative Catholic Union of Farmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28869679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28869679", "title": "Urban Land Committees", "text": "Urban Land Committees\n\nUrban Land Committees (Spanish: \"Comités de Tierras Urbanas\", CTUs) are Venezuelan local neighbourhood committees which, in conjunction with Venezuelan Communal Councils, develop land titling in urban areas. CTUs are organised and set up by local communities (around 100-200 families), in a contiguous area defined by the community. Under a February 2002 decree, the CTUs can apply to a government office for the local \"barrio\" residents to be given property title for state-owned land they have informally occupied on a long-term basis. The CTUs operate on the principle of participatory democracy, and create maps of the local area, on the basis of which (after official verification) land titles are drawn up. By early 2010, CTUs had obtained over 500,000 land titles, benefiting over 300,000 households.\n\nA formal proposal for a land titling process for barrio residents was first put forward in 2000 by the opposition Justice First, influenced by the Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto Polar. On 4 February 2002 President Hugo Chávez issued Presidential Decree 1666, providing a legal basis for CTUs to be formed. The order specified that families that could prove that they had built their own home but did not own the land on which it had been built should be given formal title. Eligibility was however restricted to cases of state-owned land with no competing private claims. \n\nBy mid-2005, there were around 5000 CTUs, representing around 5m Venezuelans, and the government had issued over 84,000 titles to 126,000 families, benefiting about 630,000 inhabitants (out of a total urban poor population of around 10m). By October 2006 the government said that over 200,000 titles had been assigned, benefiting about 1m inhabitants, and by early 2010 over 500,000 titles, benefiting over 300,000 households.\n\nIn September 2006 a new law was passed, and amended in October 2009.\n\nIn May 2008 the third national convention of CTUs took place in Maracaibo, with international observers from Argentina and Uruguay and several Pan-American organizations.\n"}
{"id": "2070495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2070495", "title": "Vorstand", "text": "Vorstand\n\nIn German corporate governance, a Vorstand is the executive board of a corporation (public limited company). It is hierarchically subordinate to the supervisory board (\"Aufsichtsrat\"), as German company law imposes a two-tier board of directors.\n\nGerman law confers executive powers on the executive board as a body. It is expected to act collectively and collegially. Unlike the executive committee (\"aka\" operating committee or executive council) of a US or UK company, the executive board is not an adjunct of the CEO (managing director). In contrast to Japanese corporate governance, the German executive board has real decision-making power. It is, by law, the managing body of a company and cannot be instructed by any legal person, be they natural or artificial, to act in such a way as to harm the business. Executive board members are personally liable for accepting any such instructions.\n\nThe specific scope of an executive board's duties varies from business to business. (A group of companies may each have their own individual executive boards, for example). The president of the executive board (i.e., the CEO) and the position's role are determined by the supervisory board. German law permits, but does not require, executive board members to elect a president/CEO from among their number. There are no specific legal requirements regarding the CEO's role, or even for the title given to the holder of the CEO position, although in practice the most common title is simply \"Vorstandsvorsitzender\", literally, \"\"Vorstand\" chairman\". A noticeable minority refer to their CEOs as \"Sprecher\" (lit., \"speaker\"), implying that the CEO is no more than \"primus inter pares\"; probably the best-known example for a company which uses this terminology is Deutsche Bank.\n\nThe exact relationship between the CEO and the other executive officers depends on the company's type, how it was founded, and indeed the individual personalities of the people involved. A family business could, for example, have a strong CEO who is a member of the founding family and exercises a great deal of power over the rest of the board. In other companies, executive officers may hold themselves accountable to the executive board as a whole and not at all accountable to the CEO as an individual.\n\nThe relationships among executive officers can vary too. It is common practice for board members to be senior executives with specific areas of functional responsibility. However, the law requires that they oversee the activities of their fellow officers, since they are still personally liable for any failings outside their specific departments/subdivisions. Each board member has one vote. Decisions are \"never\" escalated, when there is a lack of consensus, to the supervisory board. Executive board meetings are commonly held on a weekly basis and can last up to a whole day.\n\nFormally, the power to appoint executive officers to the board lies with the supervisory board, which can appoint officers with a two-thirds majority vote of approval, or a simple majority if multiple rounds of voting are required in order to reach a decision. Since up to 50% of the supervisory board members are delegates of the employees (or even external trade union representatives, for details see Mitbestimmung), this prevents employees from blocking the appointment of executive officers to the executive board.\n\nExecutive officers have a certain degree of job security, which is partly a preventative measure aimed at ensuring that executive boards are not dominated and that they are not \"packed\" with hand-picked appointees. Officers are usually appointed for the maximum statutory term—5 years. Removal must be for good cause, such as serious breach of duty, and is subject to the supervisory board's veto. When an executive officer's ability to perform his duties is diminished due to old age, it is customary for him to serve out the remainder of his term but with a deputy to help perform his duties. Neither the shareholders nor the executive board can compel an officer to retire, whereas the supervisory board can.\n\nCommonly, the CEO receives between 30% and 50% greater salary than that of the other executive officers. An officer's remuneration usually comprises 65% basic salary, and 35% that is equally split between annual bonuses and benefits.\n"}
{"id": "58031606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58031606", "title": "Working Definition of Antisemitism", "text": "Working Definition of Antisemitism\n\nThe Working Definition of Antisemitism is a non-legally binding working definition of antisemitism adopted by the inter-governmental body the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA), and governmental and non-governmental organizations worldwide. The definition (which is published accompanied by illustrative examples) is:\n\nAntisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.\n\nIt was developed during 2003–04 and first published on 28 January 2005 on the website of the European Union agency, the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC). The publication was made \"without formal review\", and during the tenure of the EUMC the definition remained a working draft. The EUMC did not adopt the definition, and in November 2013 its successor agency, the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA), removed it from its website in \"a clear-out of non-official documents\".\n\nIn 2016, the working definition and its list of examples was adopted by a plenary meeting of the 31 countries in the IHRA. Following its adoption by IHRA, the working definition has been adopted for internal use by a number of government and political institutions; in historical order: the United Kingdom, Israel, Austria, Scotland, Romania, Germany, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Macedonia. The working definition been formally adopted by eight countries and 6 of 31 governments whose countries are members of IHRA have formally endorsed or adopted the definition.\n\nIts adoption of the concept of new antisemitism, specifically connecting some criticism of Israel with antisemitism, has generated controversy. High-profile controversies took place in the United Kingdom in 2011 within the University and College Union and within the Labour Party in 2018. The definition has been contested by scholars of antisemitism including Brian Klug, David Feldman, and Antony Lerman; jurists including Hugh Tomlinson, Stephen Sedley, Geoffrey Bindman, and Geoffrey Robertson; and one of the original drafters Kenneth S. Stern has opposed the misuse of the definition to suppress and limit free speech.\n\nThe EUMC grew from the Commission on Racism and Xenophobia (CRX), established in 1994, and also known as the Kahn Commission. The CRX was transformed into the EUMC in June 1998; officially established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1035/97 of 2 June 1997. Its mandate was to monitor different forms of racism and xenophobia. In 2002, it published a large-scale monitoring report on Islamophobia since 9/11, including a total of 75 reports, 15 from each member state and a synthesis report.\nThis was to be followed by a comparable report on antisemitism. \n\nA report entitled \"Manifestations of antisemitism in the EU 2002–2003\" was published in May 2004, along with a second report on perceptions of antisemitism based on interviews with European Jews. The antisemitism report was based on data collected by the 15 contact points of EUMC's monitoring network, RAXEN, then the robustness of the data evaluated by an independent researcher, Alexander Pollak. The report included a section on definitions, which concluded by proposing this definition: \n\"Any acts or attitudes that are based on the perception of a social subject (individual, group, institution, or state) as \"the ('deceitful', 'corrupt', 'conspiratorial', etc.) Jew\".\n\nThe report also explored the question of when anti-Zionist or anti-Israel expression might be antisemitic (pp. 13–14) and highlighted the need to develop a common EU definition in order to collect and compare incidents across countries (pp. 25–29).\n\nIn December 2003, the Centre for Research on Antisemitism (ZfA) analyzed a pre-release version of this EUMC report. The ZfA report was leaked to the press and poorly received. According to civil rights lawyer Kenneth L. Marcus, in the report the primary cause of rising antisemitism in Europe was assigned to young Muslim males, while in a press release for the subsequent final publication the EUMC assigned the rise in antisemitism to \"young, disaffected white Europeans.\" Marcus writes, the larger issue was missed that the definition of antisemitism that the EUMC used was based on \"seven stereotypical traits: deceptiveness, strange-ness, hostility, greed, corruption, conspiratorial power, and deicidal murderousness.\" The EUMC report concluded that anti-Israeli and anti-Zionism expression could only be considered antisemitic if it was based on the stereotype of Israel as the collective Jew.\n\nFollowing the EUMC report, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)'s Berlin Declaration recognised that post WW2 antisemitism had changed and was now at times directed against Jews as a collective and Israel as an embodiment of the Jew. The Berlin Declaration also tasked the OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) to work with the EUMC to develop better ways to monitor antisemitic incidents in OSCE countries. At the same time, according to Marcus, the EUMC, largely due to pressure from American Jewish organizations, scrapped its failed definition of antisemitism.\n\nIsraeli scholar Dina Porat, then head of the Stephen Roth Institute at Tel Aviv University, proposed the idea for a common definition during an NGO conference organized by the American Jewish Committee (AJC). Kenneth S. Stern of the AJC, a human rights lawyer, was critical of the EUMC's original definition, as it was confusing about when attacks on Jews related to the Israel/Palestine conflict could be considered antisemitic, and required investigators to know the intentions of attackers. Meanwhile, the EUMC asked \"selected Jewish NGOs and academics to provide a simple working definition that would encompass antisemitic demonization of Israel, and which could also be used by their own RAXEN network of national focal points and by law enforcement agencies.\"\n\nDuring 2003-04, involving the \"efforts of a large number of institutes and individual experts\", and coordinated by Stern, together with Dina Porat, Holocaust scholars Yehuda Bauer, Michael Berenbaum and Roni Stauber, the Community Security Trust's Michael Whine, human rights expert Felice D. Gaer, and others, a proposed definition and set of examples was drafted. Stern's draft working definition identified that some criticism of Israel and of Zionism are antisemitic: \nAntisemitism is hatred toward Jews because they are Jews and is directed toward the Jewish religion and Jews individually or collectively. More recently, antisemitism has been manifested in the demonization of the State of Israel.\n\nAntisemitism frequently charges Jews with conspiring to harm humanity, and it is often used to blame Jews for “why things go wrong.” It is expressed in speech, writing, visual forms and action, and employs sinister stereotypes and negative character traits. (It may also be manifested on people mistaken as Jews, or on non-Jews seen as sympathetic to Jews.)\nThis was then followed by a list of illustrative examples, including five examples of the ways in which antisemitism manifests itself with regard to\nthe State of Israel. According to both Ken Marcus and Antony Lerman, the novel element in Stern's draft definition was identifying certain forms of criticism of Israel and Zionism as antisemitic, and Marcus also highlights the \"praxeological\" nature of the definition and its examples, i.e. its focus on pragmatic identification rather than scholarly understanding.\n\nAt the suggestion of the American Jewish Committee (AJC), the EUMC director organized a meeting of Jewish representatives to discuss the new definition of antisemitism which had been drafted by Kenneth Stern; the consultation involved representatives of the AJC and European Jewish Congress, the EUMC director and head of research, and the ODIHR Tolerance and Non-Discrimination program director and antisemitism expert. The outcome was negotiated between Andrew Baker, Stern's colleague at the AJC, and Beate Winkler, director of the EUMC. Again Stern was tasked with drafting the final text. Additionally, according to Michael Whine of the Community Security Trust, \"the Director of the ODIHR Tolerance and Non-Discrimination Division and the Advisor on Antisemitism played an active role in formulating the Working Definition.\"\n\nOn 28 January 2005, the EUMC published on its website a working definition of antisemitism which shared many features of Stern's earlier draft. Winkler published the definition \"without formal review by her political overseers\". The definition included the concept of collective antisemitism. Several examples relate to animus towards Israel, including both Holocaust inversion and the application of double standards to Israel. The definition states that \"However, criticism of Israel similar to that leveled against any other country cannot be regarded as antisemitic.\"\n\nThe stated purpose of the definition was to \"provide a guide for identifying incidents, collecting data and supporting the implementation and enforcement of legislation dealing with antisemitism\", and the working definition stated: \"Antisemitism is a certain perception of Jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward Jews. Rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, toward Jewish community institutions and religious facilities.\"\n\nThe EUMC separated the working definition with 11 examples. This was presented as two separate groups, the first six examples were antisemitic tropes and the following five examples were introduced with the sentence: \"Examples of the ways in which antisemitism manifests itself with regard to the state of Israel taking into account the overall context could include\". Marcus writes that it was a \"working definition\" in two senses: a working guide to identifying antisemitism in practice, and a work-in-progress as opposed to a final statement to be approved by the EU's political leadership: \"for this reason, formal endorsement was neither sought nor obtained.\" \n\nThe EUMC working definition was prominently referenced by the OSCE Cordoba conference in June that year. The definition was promoted by the AJC, other American Jewish organizations, national Jewish representative bodies, Jewish defence organizations, the Israeli government, pro-Israeli-advocacy groups, and was approved by the OSCE and other pan-European organizations. The EUMC working definition was widely criticized and the organization was put under pressure by supporters and critics of the definition. The EUMC never granted any official status to the definition and claimed that the definition was not wholly endorsed by them; it was only on its website as a guide, a basis for discussion.\n\nIn 2007, the EU replaced the EUMC with the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA), with a broader remit than racism and antisemitism. It has continued to deliver annual reports of antisemitic incidents in the EU countries, based on data from its national contact points.\n\nIn 2008, the European Forum on Antisemitism commissioned translations of the Working Definition into each of the 33 languages used by the OSCE states.\n\nIn 2010, Stern wrote that \"In the last five years, the definition has been increasingly used, because it is provides a workable, non-ideological approach to task of identifying antisemitism.\" The definition was used by monitoring agencies and law enforcement officials in some European countries. According to Stern, by 2010, the definition had been referenced or relied upon in or by courts (in Lithuanian and Germany), congressional hearings in the United States, online reference tools, newspapers, blogs, scholarly articles, legal articles, radio shows, student groups, museums, national inquiries of parliamentarians (most importantly in the UK), international meetings of parliamentarians, United States Department of State Reports, The United States Commission on Civil Rights, and in submissions to the United Nations Economic and Social Council Commission on Human Rights, Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights... It continues to be referenced more and more because of its clear utility. For example, in Lithuania, it was referred to in a successful criminal case against an editor of a right-wing newspaper in 2005.\n\nThe definition was used to some extent by some intergovernmental and EU agencies. For example, the OSCE used the definition in a 2005 report \"Education on the Holocaust and Antisemitism: An Overview and Analysis of Educational Approaches.\" By 2010 it was recommended in the course leaders’ Facilitators Guide in the OSCE OHDIR programme to assist law enforcement officials to understand and investigate hate crime, and at the 2010 OSCE High Level Conference on Tolerance and Non-Discrimination in Astana urged participating states to use and promote the Working Definition. In February 2009, the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism conference, in the \"London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism\", issued a call to governments to expand the use of the Working Definition.\n\nCanadian Members of Parliament adopted a resolution to combat antisemitism in 2007 that cited the definition, and the Australian Online Hate Prevention Institute. The definition is used by the Justice Ministers of Austria and Germany in training prosecutors and judges. It was also adopted formally by other governmental and non-governmental organizations in some countries.\n\nIn 2006, the All-Party Parliamentary Inquiry into Antisemitism recommended that the UK adopt the definition and that it be promoted by the Government and law enforcement agencies. The Government Response the following year recognised the \"useful work being done by the EUMC in identifying antisemitic discourse\", noted that the government accepted the definition of racism in the MacPherson Report on institutional racism and that this subsumed the EUMC and went further. It also noted that \"from the EUMC's evidence to the Committee\", the \"definition is in fact a work in progress and has not been recommended to states for adoption\". However, it undertook to re-examine this if the EUMC's successor body, the FRA, did recommend it for adoption, an undertaking it repeated the following year in its progress report on implementing the Inquiry's recommendations, noting this had been delayed by the process of transforming into the FRA delayed this. In 2009, the leaders of the Labour and Conservative parties signed the \"London Declaration\" endorsing the definition.\n\nThe National Union of Students formally adopted the Working Definition at its 2007 Conference. Some individual students unions followed suit, although at others motions to do so were defeated. In 2011, the University and College Union passed a resolution opposing the use of the definition, which led to the Jewish Leadership Council and Board of Deputies of British Jews describing the union as \"institutionally antisemitic\".\n\nOn 1 January 2015, Professor David Feldman stated in a Sub-Report for the Parliamentary Committee Against Antisemitism that the definition had \"largely has fallen out of favour\" due to criticisms received.\n\nThe United States Commission on Civil Rights, after investigating campus antisemitism, adopted the definition, to help universities identify the lines between hateful and non-hateful incidents. In 2007, the EUMC definition was adopted as \"an initial guide\" by the Office to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism within the U.S. Department of State, stating that it \"should not be construed... as United States policy\".\n\nIn 2008, the State Department again endorsed the Working Definition in their \"Contemporary Global Antisemitism\" report to Congress, noting that “a widely accepted definition of antisemitism can be useful in setting the parameters of the issue. Such a definition also helps to identify the statistics that are needed and focuses attention on the issues that policy initiatives should address….The EUMC’s working definition provides a useful framework for identifying and understanding the problem and is adopted for the purposes of this report.”\n\nIn June 2010 the State Department adopted a definition based on the EUMC definition. It used exactly the same headline definition as the EUMC definition, but made various modifications to the examples, to incorporate Israeli politician Natan Sharansky's 3D Test of Antisemitism. According to Marcus, while it was in effect the State Department definition was more important in determining U.S. government foreign policy than the EUMC definition since it represented an official policy position. \n\nIn 2011, the AJC's Ken Stern and Cary Nelson, President of the American Association of University Professors published a letter stating that \"It is a perversion of the definition to use it, as some are doing, in an attempt to censor what a professor, student, or speaker can say\"; this generated significant controversy within the American Jewish community.\n\nThe State Department has since adopted the IHRA definition.\n\nOn 12 January 2016, Peter Roskam and Tim Scott introduced a bipartisan bill in the House and Senate on combating antisemitism on campus, under the title of The Anti-Semitism Awareness Act, to codify the working definition. It would require the US Department of Education to refer to the definition in deciding if educational institutions had violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by tolerating antisemitic harassment. It was passed in the Senate, and on 22 December 2016 it was were referred to the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. This hearing was held on 7 November 2017; it \"took a heated turn\" as four of the nine witnesses argued that the definition infringes on freedom of speech regarding Israel. \n\nOn 23 May 2018, the same bills were reintroduced with minor amendments. On 24 July 2018 they were referred again to the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. The Bill was criticised as an attack on free speech.\n\nThe EUMC did not adopt the definition, and in November 2013, its successor agency, the Fundamental Rights Agency (FRA), removed it from its website in \"a clear-out of non-official documents\"; a spokesperson stated at the time that \"We are not aware of any official definition [of anti-Semitism]\". The FRA also said: \"Since its development we are not aware of any public authority in the EU that applies it [and the] FRA has no plans for any further development.\" In an August 2010 publication on antisemitism, the FRA did not mention the working definition. Following on from the EUMC's 2004 report the FRA's 2012 report on antisemitism equates New antisemitism with anti-Zionism. FRA also used the term secondary antisemitism to define similar phenomenon in relation to the Holocaust. In 2013, the FRA confirmed that it did not have the authority to \"either set or repudiate any definitions\" of antisemitism. In April 2016, in response to a motion passed at the UK National Union of Students annual conference endorsing the definition, the FRA stated that the working definition “is not an official EU definition and has not been adopted by FRA”.\n\nOn 26 May 2016, IHRA adopted a non-legally binding working definition of antisemitism. The IHRA adoption took place following the efforts of Mark Weitzman of the Simon Weisenthal Center, at the Bucharest plenary meeting of the IHRA on 30 May 2016, where its 31 member countries voted to adopt it. \n\nMark Weitzman later told a workshop that the definition was copied from the EUMC version as there was \"not enough time to invent a new one\". The decision to adopt the text was based on consensus amongst IHRA's 31 member countries.\n\nIHRA's 38-word basic \"working definition\" of antisemitism reads:\n\nAccompanying the definition, to \"guide IHRA in its work,\" the IHRA has written eleven contemporary examples which \"may serve as illustrations\". Some of the examples explain that criticising Israel can stray into antisemitic discourse. In particular, it states that, \"taking into account the overall context\", examples could include \"Accusing Jewish citizens of being more loyal to Israel, or to the alleged priorities of Jews worldwide, than to the interests of their own nations\" and \"claiming that the existence of a State of Israel is a racist endeavor\" (and nine other examples).\n\nThe EUMC and IHRA definitions are set out differently. The EUMC 38-word working definition is distinguished from the rest of the text by being set in bold type. The same text in the IHRA definition is not only also in bold type, it's enclosed in a box which contains the longer part of a prefatory sentence that begins outside the box. The European Coordination of Committees and Associations for Palestine states that on 12 September 2017 the IHRA Permanent Office in Berlin replied to their inquiry thusly. \"[…] The Plenary of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) adopted the working definition of antisemitism under the Romanian Chairmanship on 26 May 2016. The working definition, like all IHRA decision, is non-legally binding. The working definition is the text in the box…\" Antony Lerman polemics that this confirmed that the definition and the examples were separate things.\n\nIn late 2016, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe considered adopting the definition; the adoption was blocked by Russia.\n\nThe United Kingdom (12 December 2016) was the first country to adopted the definition, followed by Israel (22 January 2017), Austria (25 April 2017), Scotland (27 April 2017), Romania (25 May 2017), Germany (20 September 2017) and Bulgaria (18 October 2017). The European Parliament voted in favor of a resolution calling for member states to adopt the definition on 1 June 2017 - although without explicitly quoting the examples. As of 16 March 2018, Lithuania (24 January 2018) and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have also adopted the definition. In addition, the state of South Carolina, the city of Bal Harbour in Florida, and Western Washington University adopted it.\n\nIn March 2016, the UK government published a short article on defining antisemitism, authored by Eric Pickles, then Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, which stated \"for those seeking a definition of antisemitism, the UK’s College of Policing does include a working definition of antisemitism [i.e. the EUMC working definition] in their guidance to police forces in the UK\", which was then quoted in full in the article, this definition was the EUMC working definition.\n\nIn October 2016, the cross-party Commons Home Affairs Select Committee reported on antisemitism in the UK. Its report included a long section on defining antisemitism, including a discussion of the working definition, noting that the President of the Board of Deputies of British Jews gave evidence describing the definition as \"helpful, comprehensive and fit for purpose”, as well as a summary of some criticisms of the definition. Among the Committee's recommendations were \"that the IHRA definition, with our additional caveats, should be formally adopted by the UK Government, law enforcement agencies and all political parties, to assist them in determining whether or not an incident or discourse can be regarded as antisemitic.\" The caveats were two additional clarifications designed to protect freedom of speech in discussion of Israel/Palestine: \nIt is not antisemitic to criticise the Government of Israel, without additional evidence to suggest antisemitic intent. It is not antisemitic to hold the Israeli Government to the same standards as other liberal democracies, or to take a particular interest in the Israeli Government’s policies or actions, without additional evidence to suggest antisemitic intent.\nIn December, the UK government responded that it had agreed to adopt the IHRA definition, but that the caveats were unnecessary given the definition's clause “criticism of Israel similar to that levelled against any other country cannot be regarded as antisemitic” is sufficient to ensure freedom of speech. The government also noted that the police already used a previous version of the definition (the EUMC version) and that it \"is a useful tool for criminal justice agencies and other public bodies to use to understand how anti-Semitism manifests itself in the 21st century\". Later that month, the government announced it would formally adopt the definition.\n\nSubsequently, the definition has been adopted by some 120 UK municipalities and by London Assembly and the Mayor of London. In July 2018, an Early Day Motion was proposed by Labour Party MP Luciana Berger and signed by 39 mainly Labour MPs welcomed the UK's formal adoption of the definition and noted that the Welsh and Scottish Governments, the Greater Manchester Combined Authority, London Assembly, and over 120 local councils had formally adopted the definition.\n\nIt has also been adopted by educational institutions such as Kings College London. However, in 2017 a resolution to the University and College Union called for the union to formally reject the definition.\n\nIn December 2016, Labour adopted the working definition. It was formally accepted at the 2017 Labour Party Conference.\n\nIn July 2018, the Labour Party National Executive Committee (NEC) adopted without a vote a definition of antisemitism based on the IHRA definition, although it removed or amended four out of eleven examples of what allegedly constitutes antisemitism, added an additional three examples and amended points showing how criticising Israel can be antisemitic. Labour said the wording in the code of conduct \"expands on and contextualises\" the IHRA examples. The Shadow Solicitor-General, Nick Thomas-Symonds, said many of IHRA's examples were \"adopted word for word in our code of conduct\" while \"the ground is covered\" for others. He said: \"We should be going further than the IHRA definition and the language of the code is at times much stronger. We need to expand on a lot of the examples to ensure that we have a legally enforceable code so that we can enforce discipline as everyone wants to.\" The NEC's modified examples sparked criticism amid allegations of antisemitism, leading the NEC to announce that it would review the decision in consultation with the UK Jewish community.\n\nA statement by the UK Delegation to the IHRA stated that \"Any 'modified' version of the IHRA definition that does not include all of its 11 examples is no longer the IHRA definition. Adding or removing language undermines the months of international diplomacy and academic rigour that enabled this definition to exist. If one organization or institution can amend the wording to suit its own needs, then logically anyone else could do the same. We would once again revert to a world where antisemitism goes unaddressed simply because different entities cannot agree on what it is.\" However, Antony Lerman pointed out that \"the administration of the IHRA itself confirmed unequivocally that the definition and the examples were separate things. Its permanent office in Berlin issued the following statement on 12 September 2017: 'The working definition, like all IHRA decisions, is non-legally binding. The working definition is the text in the box'. This statement makes a nonsense of the statement issued by Experts of the UK Delegation to the IHRA on 7 August 2018...\"\n\nIn September 2018, the NEC decided to add all 11 IHRA examples (unamended) to the definition of antisemitism. A few days later the Parliamentary Labour Party voted by a majority of 205 to adopt the unamended definition to their standing orders.\n\nLater in the month, a report by the Media Reform Coalition examined over 250 articles and broadcast news segments of coverage of Labour's revised code of conduct on antisemitism, and found over 90 examples of misleading or inaccurate reporting. The research found evidence of \"overwhelming source imbalance\" in which critics of Labour's code of conduct dominated coverage which failed to include quotes from those defending the code, critiquing the IHRA working definition and key contextual facts about the IHRA working definition.\n\nIn July 2018, the Conservative Party claimed it had adopted the definition in full. However, at the time their code of conduct approved in December 2017, which only governs the behavior of anyone representing the Party as an elected or appointed official or office-holder, didn't mention antisemitism or specify a definition of it. Since then their code has been amended to include an interpretive annexe on discrimination, which does refer to the IHRA definition and says it was adopted in December 2016 (the date the Conservative \"government\" adopted the definition).\n\nIn September, The Liberal Democrats formally adopted the IHRA definition with the working examples.\n\nIn October, Green Party of England and Wales did not adopt the definition. Their home affairs spokesman and former deputy leader, Shahrar Ali, told their annual conference the definition was \"politically engineered to restrict criticism of Israel's heinous crimes upon the Palestinian people\".\n\nIn March 2005, Brian Klug argued that this definition proscribed legitimate criticism of the human rights record of the Israeli Government by attempting to bring criticism of Israel into the category of antisemitism, and does not sufficiently distinguish between criticism of Israeli actions and criticism of Zionism as a political ideology, on the one hand, and racially based violence towards, discrimination against, or abuse of, Jews. In 2009, sociologist Paul Igansky states that parallels between Israeli policy and those of the Nazis are \"arguably not intrinsically antisemitic\", and that the context in which they are made is critical.\n\nIn December 2016, David Feldman wrote: \"While some consensus is needed in this debate, I fear this definition is imprecise, and isolates antisemitism from other forms of bigotry.\" He added: \"The text also carries dangers. It trails a list of 11 examples. Seven deal with criticism of Israel. Some of the points are sensible, some are not. Crucially, there is a danger that the overall effect will place the onus on Israel's critics to demonstrate they are not antisemitic.\"\n\nIn July 2018, Antony Lerman wrote: \"investing all in the IHRA working definition of antisemitism is just making matters worse. This is the time to take the path to working with other minority groups, civil society organizations and human rights bodies to confront antisemitism within the context of a wider antiracist struggle, not to perpetuate the notion that Jews stand alone.\" He later stated that \"the case against IHRA is so strong\" and \"...the fundamental principle that IHRA is so flawed it should be abandoned...\"\n\nIn the same month, Klug wrote: \"...critics maintain that Labour (or anyone else) has to adopt the IHRA document 'in full'. But the text is not written in stone. It is a working definition with working examples. It is a living document, subject to revision and constantly needing to be adapted to the different contexts in which people apply its definition... But people of goodwill who genuinely want to solve the conundrum – combating antisemitism while protecting free political speech – should welcome the code as a constructive initiative, and criticise it constructively... For this to happen, the seas of language are going to have to subside and critics must stop treating the IHRA document as immutable. In the Judaism in which I was nurtured and educated, there is only one text whose status is sacred; and it was not written by a committee of the IHRA.\"\n\nIn February 2017, a letter signed by 244 academics asserts \"this definition seeks to conflate criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism\" and raised concerns about muddying the definition of anti-Semitism and restricting free debate on Israel. The academics included Conor Gearty, Dorothy Griffiths, Moshé Machover, Iain Chalmers, Steven Rose, Gilbert Achcar, Penny Green, Marian Hobson, Erica Burman, Richard Seaford, Colin Eden, Neil Davidson, Catherine Cobham, Matthew Beaumont, Richard Bornat, Paul Taylor, Ray Bush, Michael Edwards, Peter Collins, Elizabeth Cowie, Mona Baker, Laleh Khalili, Aneez Esmail, Hilary Rose, Pat Devine, Daphne Hampson, Clément Mouhot, Peter Hallward, Frank Land, Steve Hall, Steve Keen, Murray Fraser, Ian Pace, Philip Wadler, Robert Boyce, Sharon Kivland, Guy Standing and Neil Smith.\n\nIn August 2018, Professor Rebecca Ruth Gould published the first extended scholarly critique of the IHRA definition: \"Legal Form and Legal Legitimacy: The IHRA Definition of Antisemitism as a Case Study in Censored Speech\". Gould described \"the IHRA definition as a quasi-law\" and documents the meaning of the IHRA document's self-description as \"legally non-binding,\" the history of its application, and the legal dynamics bearing on its deployment in university contexts. In November, Gould stated that \"These dimensions are made all the more contentious by its imprecise content and the significant ambiguity around its legal status. On the basis of the many ways in which the IHRA definition has been used to censor speech, particularly on university campuses\" and \"that the definition's proponents have not paid enough attention to the harms of censoring Israel-critical speech.\"\n\nIn March 2017, human rights lawyer Hugh Tomlinson QC criticised the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) definition as \"unclear and confusing\", saying it did not have \"the clarity which would be required\" from a legal definition of antisemitism.\" He addressed concerns that the definition conflates antisemitism with criticism of Israel and could be misused to curtail campaigning on behalf of Palestinians. He stated: \"Properly understood in its own terms the IHRA Definition does not mean that activities such as describing Israel as a state enacting a policy of apartheid, as practising settler colonialism or calling for policies of boycott divestment or sanctions against Israel can properly be characterized as antisemitic. A public authority which sought to apply the IHRA Definition to prohibit or sanction such activities would be acting unlawfully.\" He presented his legal opinion on the new working definition at the House of Lords.\n\nIn May 2017, former Court of Appeal judge Stephen Sedley said: \"Shorn of philosophical and political refinements, anti-Semitism is hostility towards Jews as Jews. Where it manifests itself in discriminatory acts or inflammatory speech it is generally illegal, lying beyond the bounds of freedom of speech and of action. By contrast, criticism (and equally defence) of Israel or of Zionism is not only generally lawful: it is affirmatively protected by law. Endeavours to conflate the two by characterising everything other than anodyne criticism of Israel as anti-Semitic are not new. What is new is the adoption by the UK government (and the Labour Party) of a definition of anti-Semitism which endorses the conflation.\" In July 2018, Sedley wrote: \"...Sir William Macpherson did not advise that everything perceived as racist was ipso facto racist. He advised that reported incidents that were perceived by the victim as racist should be recorded and investigated as such. His purpose was to reverse the dismissive culture that characterised the reporting and policing of racial incidents. To derive from this fallacy a proposition that anything perceived by one or more Jewish people as antisemitic is legally an act of racism is not only absurd: it overlooks another aspect of legality, the right of free expression contained in article 10 of the European convention on human rights and now embodied in our law by the Human Rights Act. It is a right that may be qualified by proportionate legal restrictions necessary for protecting the rights of others: hence the legal bar on hate speech.\" Regarding the examples he said: \"They point to the underlying purpose of the text: to neutralise serious criticism of Israel by stigmatising it as a form of antisemitism.\"\n\nIn July 2018, human rights solicitor Geoffrey Bindman wrote: \"Unfortunately, the definition and the examples are poorly drafted, misleading, and in practice have led to the suppression of legitimate debate and freedom of expression. Nevertheless, clumsily worded as it is, the definition does describe the essence of antisemitism: irrational hostility towards Jews. The 11 examples are another matter. Seven of them refer to the state of Israel. This is where the problem arises. Some of them at least are not necessarily antisemitic. Whether they are or not depends on the context and on additional evidence of antisemitic intent.\"\n\nIn August 2018, Rebecca Ruth Gould noted that since the adoption of the IHRA definition: \"at least five universities [in the UK], and likely many more, have had planned events cancelled or otherwise censored due to a perceived need to comply with this definition, even in the absence of its legal ratification.\"\n\nIn August 2018, Geoffrey Robertson QC, an expert on freedom of speech and human rights, states that the working definition fails to cover the most insidious forms of hostility to Jewish people. He said that several of the examples are so loosely drafted that they are likely to chill free speech, legitimate criticisms of the Israeli Government and coverage of human rights abuses against Palestinians. He said the definition was not intended to be binding and was not drafted as a comprehensible definition the British government's adoption of the working definition \"has no legal effect\" and recommended that any public bodies or organizations should follow the Home Affairs Committee recommendation and add to it the clarification that \"it is not anti-Semitic to criticise the Government of Israel without additional evidence to suggest anti-Semitic intent.\" He concluded that \"It is imprecise, confusing and open to misinterpretation and even manipulation... is not fit for any purpose that seeks to use it as an adjudicative standard\" and political action against Israel is not properly characterised as antisemitic unless the action is intended to promote hatred or hostility against Jews in general.\n\nThe main drafter of the working definition and its examples, Kenneth S. Stern, cautioned against the free speech implications of its use as a legal tool. He has opposed efforts to enshrine it in legislation and wrote a letter to members of the US Congress warning that giving the definition legal status would be \"unconstitutional and unwise\" in December 2016. In 2011, he co-authored an article about how the 'Working Definition' was being abused in Title VI cases, because it was being employed in an attempt to \"restrict academic freedom and punish political speech.\" In November 2017, Stern explained to the US House of Representatives that the definition has been abused on various US university campuses. He warned that it could \"restrict academic freedom and punish political speech\" and questioned whether definitions created by minority groups should be legislatively enshrined, giving as one of several examples. \"Imagine a definition designed for Palestinians. If \"Denying the Jewish people their right to self-determination, and denying Israel the right to exist\" is antisemitism, then shouldn't \"Denying the Palestinian people their right to self-determination, and denying Palestine the right to exist\" be anti-Palestinianism? Would they then ask administrators to police and possibly punish campus events by pro-Israel groups who oppose the two state solution, or claim the Palestinian people are a myth?\" He states that the definition was created \"as a tool for data collectors in European countries to identify what to include and exclude from their reports about antisemitism, and to have a common frame of reference so that data might be compared across borders.\" He \"encouraged the Department of State's first Special Envoy for Antisemitism to promote the definition as an important tool.\" He used it effectively as the framework for a report on global antisemitism. He added: \"approaches to antisemitism that endorse and promote academic freedom are more likely to work, in part because they underscore the academy's goal of increasing knowledge and promoting critical thinking... approaches that explain academic freedom away or harm it will not only fail, they make the problem worse.\"\n\nIn August 2017, Jewish Voice for Labour (JVL) saw the working definition as \"attempts to widen the definition of antisemitism beyond its meaning of hostility towards, or discrimination against, Jews as Jews\". In August 2018, JVL thought the IHRA examples of antisemitism fell short of providing \"a clear and unambiguous statement based on attitudes to Jews as Jews, not attitudes to a country, Israel\".\n\nIn December 2017, the Board of Deputies of British Jews wrote that \"there is a worrying resistance from universities to adopting it and free speech is given as the primary reason for their reluctance. It is said to be 'contentious' because some people argue that current concerns surrounding antisemitism are motivated by ulterior motives, namely defending the policies of the Israeli government. We would suggest that if a definition of prejudice against any other community referenced arguments that their concerns were even partially guided by ulterior motives then that community would infer that the definition did not take prejudice and discrimination against their group seriously. It is also not an assault on free speech to say that students or staff should not be indulging antisemitic tropes. Rather, it is part of what makes a healthy society.\"\n\nIn May 2018, the members' conference of the British civil liberties advocacy group Liberty passed a motion resolving that the definition could constitute a threat to freedom of expression by \"conflating anti-semitism with criticism of Israel and legitimate defence of the rights of Palestinians.\"\n\nIn July 2018, a statement signed by 39 left-wing Jewish organizations in 15 countries, including six based in the UK, was released criticising the working definition, declaring that it was \"worded in such a way as to be easily adopted or considered by western governments to intentionally equate legitimate criticisms of Israel and advocacy for Palestinian rights with antisemitism, as a means to suppress the former\" and that \"this conflation undermines both the Palestinian struggle for freedom, justice and equality and the global struggle against antisemitism. It also serves to shield Israel from being held accountable to universal standards of human rights and international law.\" The statement went on to urge governments, municipalities, universities and other institutions to reject the IHRA definition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42520058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42520058", "title": "Zwischengeschlecht", "text": "Zwischengeschlecht\n\nZwischengeschlecht (literally \"between sexes\") is a human rights advocacy group campaigning on intersex bodily autonomy issues. The group demonstrates outside medical events where surgical interventions are discussed or performed, engages with the media, and participates in consultations with human rights institutions.\n\nZwischengeschlecht were consulted by the Swiss National Advisory Commission on Biomedical Ethics in the preparation of an Opinion report, \"On the management of differences of sex development, Ethical issues relating to \"intersexuality\"\" in November 2012. The report is notable for making a clear apology for damage done to intersex people in the past, and up until the present. It recommends deferring all \"non-trivial\" surgeries which have \"irreversible consequences\". The report also recommended criminal sanction for non-medically necessary genital surgeries.\n\nThe organization actively campaigns for recognition of intersex medical interventions as forms of \"intersex genital mutilation\", including through submissions to UN institutions. In March 2017, Zwischengeschlecht reported that the UN had made 22 concluding observations on the performance of UN member states according to their international treaty obligations. This included 14 countries, across in Europe, Latin America, Asia, Africa and Oceania.\n\nIn 2016, Zwischengeschlecht described actions to promote equality or civil status legislation without action on banning \"intersex genital mutilations\" as a form of pinkwashing. The organization has previously highlighted evasive government statements to UN Treaty Bodies that conflate intersex, transgender and LGBT issues, instead of addressing harmful practices on infants.\n\nZwischengeschlecht have described media coverage of moves to create a third gender classification as \"silly season fantasies\"; the main goal is to stop intersex genital mutilations.\n\nThe group demonstrates outside medical events where surgical interventions are discussed or performed, and engages with the media.\n\nZwischengeschlecht participated in the third International Intersex Forum in late 2013, and also contributed to a joint statement to the United Nations Human Rights Council on 11 March 2014.\n\n\n"}
