{"id": "53691617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53691617", "title": "48FILM Project", "text": "48FILM Project\n\n48FILM Project is an international short film festival and online competition founded in 2009. The competition is open from January to November each year. Professional and amateur filmmakers worldwide are given 48 hours to write, film, edit, produce and upload a short 4-7 minute movie. The competitors' works are judged by a jury of renowned film personalities, and the films of 15 finalists are screened at the Directors Guild of America (DGA) in Los Angeles, where the grand winner receives the prize of $100,000. More than 75,000 filmmakers from 130 countries actively participated in the festival by 2016.\n\nFrancesco Vitali and Chris Siametis started a film festival in Greece in 2009. Originally it was a film competition only for Greek nationals to create a short film in 48 hours. 48 hour Go Green Athens was a success, and the income from the screening was given to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The winner’s film was screened at Cannes. To be able to found an international festival, they moved to Cyprus, set up an online company and made an online film festival. Within 20 days, they had 330 entries from all over the world. Online events were held concurrently with live events in 10 major cities in the United States. The top 15 winning films were shown in the Short Film Corner at Cannes and NAB Show in Las Vegas. Deciding to increase the scope of the festival, they moved to the United States.\n\nIt was in Los Angeles that Vitali as executive producer and Siametis as co-executive producer, together with a team of filmmakers, writers, producers, cinematographers, directors and actors, created an online festival for short films and called it 48FILM Project. In the first few years of the competition, the films of 15 finalists were screened at the Cannes Film Festival. In 2013, the finalists' films were screened at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' Samuel Goldwyn Theater in Beverly Hills. For the last five years, they have been screened at the Directors Guild of America.\n\nFor the first time in 2014, 48FILM Project provided a budget of $48,000 for an additional prize. It was given to the best producer, best director and best writer to join forces and shoot a feature film in Hollywood in 2015. In the same year, the competition was accompanied by \"48 Music Project\", where musicians from all over the world had to create an original song within 48 hours. The prize was a contract with a major record company in Los Angeles plus $10,000 in cash and prizes. Moreover, the 15 finalists performed in front of a music-industry audience in Hollywood.\n\nMore than 75,000 filmmakers from 130 countries actively participated in the 48FILM Project festival by 2016.\n\nIn 2017, Vitali and Siametis started \"48Film Project Hellas 2017 - Respect Greece\", a festival aimed at Greek and Cypriot filmmakers, artists, directors and producers. The 30 finalists are slated to have their films screened in Los Angeles and to compete for the grand prize of $5,000. It was announced that footage from the films would be used to rebrand Greece in the documentary \"Respect Greece\", presenting Greek culture to the world.\n\nThe competition is open to anyone with an internet connection, regardless of whether they are professionals or amateurs. The competitors keep the rights to their films and choose whatever genre they want. Everyone is eligible to enter at any point from January to November each year, as many times as they like. However, once a filmmaker has applied online, he or she has two days (48 hours) to imagine a story, shoot and edit the film. They are given additional two hours to upload it to the festival site. When filmmakers submit their application, they are informed about the three elements that their film must contain to prove that it was really made in 48 hours: a character, a prop, and a line of dialog. For example, the 2016 winner \"Clara\" was required to include a character named James, a perfume bottle, and the question \"Is that a dagger which I see before me?\".\n\nFilms are judged by a jury of renowned film personalities in December each year. The 15 finalists are announced in January. The first prize of $100,000 is awarded at the Directors Guild of America (DGA) in Los Angeles in February or March. The top 15 films are screened at DGA before an audience of prominent producers, directors, agents, managers and industry professionals.\n\nThese are all the winners of 48FILM Project.\n"}
{"id": "56045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56045", "title": "606 BC", "text": "606 BC\n\nThe year 606 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 148 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 606 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "42187421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42187421", "title": "Accident data recorder", "text": "Accident data recorder\n\nThe accident data recorder (ADR, German commonly abbr.: UDS, also accident (data) writer), in Switzerland also \"Restwegaufzeichnungsgerät\" (abbr.: RAG), is an independent electronic device that records before, during, and after a traffic accident relevant data and thus resembles a flight recorder.\n\nIt can be installed in motor vehicles (cars, trucks, buses, motorcycles, trams, and special vehicles) on a voluntary basis in order to obtain more accurate information about the events in an accident. In some countries there are regulations for mandatory installation in different vehicles. The accident data recorder constantly records various data of the vehicle (such as speed, direction of travel, longitudinal and transverse vehicle acceleration, status of the lights, turn signals and braking, etc.) and records them for some time before they are automatically cleared.\n\nIn the case of an accident (this is detected by a strong acceleration of the vehicle as a result of an impulse), certain periods of time (usually in the two-digit seconds range) remain permanently stored before and after an event. This makes it much easier to reconstruct events after an accident, so that if necessary the question of fault can be clarified.\n\nMany vehicles of authorities (such as police or ambulance) are equipped with it, as it often comes to disputes with collisions during driving with blues and twos about compliance with regulations. A side effect of vehicles equipped with UDS is that drivers behave more cautiously on the road. According to a survey by the EU Transport Commission, UDS users experienced a 20 to 30 percent decline in traffic accidents.\n\nThe accident data recorder is often used by experts or institutions in crash tests as a measuring device.\n\nThe installation (also later) costs about 700 euros and can lead to a deduction for some insurance policies. The accident data recorder can be read by an expert via interface cable. The accident data recorder (older generations) has a switch with which the driver can delete the stored data immediately after an accident so as not to burden himself with the later question of guilt. However, this feature may be disabled, for example for use in company vehicles.\n\nAccident data recorders work to measure the accelerations, depending on the equipment in two or three spatial directions, with micromechanical sensors. Often several sensor systems with different resolutions are used in order to be able to log the driving dynamic processes on the one hand and the collision dynamics themselves on the other. Higher-class systems also offer a possibility for measuring the rotational movements as well as the vehicle speed. The latter can e.g. be calculated from the signal of the vehicle's wheel speed sensor. The recording of any signals that are available on the vehicle's own CAN bus, is possible with higher-class devices as well as the detection of a GPS signal for position and speed determination. Depending on the manufacturer, about 20 to 30 s are recorded before and 10 to 15 s after an event.\n\nAre known today (as of 2018) in the German-speaking countries essentially two suitable for retrofitting accident data recorder. Blacktrack Ltd. offers a low-cost solution, which is mainly used by the insurance industry (e.g. AXA Winterthur in Switzerland). By contrast, the UDS-AT developed by the company consortium Peter Systemtechnik GmbH and Kast GmbH offers extended possibilities of recording and integration into a vehicle.\n\nResidual path recording devices (RAG) from Mobatime AG are external devices that rely on existing on-board signals (distance, speed, operating states of status inputs) and store them in a ring buffer for at least the last 12 km. In contrast to an accident data recorder, they do not have their own measuring sensors.\n\nReading out the data of an accident data recorder requires special software.\n\nThe evaluation and interpretation of measurement data of a traffic accident require special knowledge in the areas of vehicle dynamics, accident reconstruction, metrology and last but not least the accident data storage technology itself. For UDS there is a separate order area for expert witnesses in Germany.\n\nThe picture on the right shows the (unprocessed) data curves of a real accident recorded with a UDS. The measured accelerations, the speed and various status channels are plotted over time. It can be seen, for example, that vehicle special signals were switched on prior to the collision and the driver was previously still applying the brake.\n\nThe nowadays known accident data recorder was invented by Mannesmann Kienzle GmbH, which applied for a patent in 1992. The development began in Germany in the early 1980s with the two companies MBB and Kienzle, who pursued different concepts. In general, the black box was taken as a model, which was developed in the early 1950s in Australia by David Warren. Already in 1973, General Motors applied for a patent for a \"vehicle crash recorder\". Mannesmann Kienzle delivered the first accident data recorder in early 1993.\n\nIn motorsport, accident data recorders (ADR) must be used in various series as specified by the FIA. Starting with the 2015 season, the use of an ADR in the Formula 4 championship was compulsory. In the higher series, the use has been mandatory for some time. In addition to the data of the acceleration sensors mounted on the vehicle, the loads on the driver are also measured with an in-ear accelerometer.\n\nDue to the higher speeds in formula sports compared to road traffic, the sensors have a measuring range of ± 150 g with a resolution of 0.1 g. 2 s are recorded before an event. With an event duration of 30 s, 10 events can be stored.\n\nBoth in a flight recorder and in a UDS, the constantly recorded data runs in a ring buffer. However, the flight recorder usually records for longer periods of 17 to 25 hours. In contrast, the UDS only saves a few seconds before and after an event is triggered (e.g. collision) permanently.\n\nThe term \"drive data recorder\" is generally understood to mean a continuous and permanently available recording of data and signals during the operation of a vehicle, independently of an accident. Such systems are often used in locomotives or trams. Often, however, an electronic logbook is referred to as drive data recorder. Dashcams are sometimes referred to as drive data recorder or \"video event data recorder\" (VEDR).\nA so-called \"Event Data Recorder\" (EDR) is not an accident data recorder in the sense of an autonomous, more or less vehicle-independent device, since an EDR is usually an additional electronic module in an existing control device (e.g. from the Airbag) in a car. EDRs rely exclusively on on-board signals, while UDS have their own inertial sensors. Vehicles with airbag systems store accident-relevant data (impact accelerations, belt buckle conditions, seat positions, trip times) in the internal memory of the tripping electronics. However, the data size varies depending on the manufacturer and only extends over a few seconds or fractions. NHTSA regulations call for uniform data sets for all systems manufactured from 2010 onwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "674229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674229", "title": "Angels of Mons", "text": "Angels of Mons\n\nThe Angels of Mons is a popular legend about a group of angels who supposedly protected members of the British Army in the Battle of Mons at the outset of the First World War.\n\nOn 22–23 August 1914, the first major engagement of the British Expeditionary Force in the First World War occurred at the Battle of Mons. Advancing German forces were thrown back by heavily outnumbered British troops, who suffered heavy casualties and, being outflanked, were forced into rapid retreat the next day. The retreat and the battle were rapidly perceived by the British public as being a key moment in the war. Despite the censorship going on in Britain at the time, this battle was the first indication the British public had that defeating Germany would not be as easy as some had thought.\n\nOn 29 September 1914 Welsh author Arthur Machen published a short story entitled \"The Bowmen\" in the London newspaper the \"Evening News\", inspired by accounts that he had read of the fighting at Mons and an idea he had had soon after the battle.\n\nMachen, who had already written a number of factual articles on the conflict for the paper, set his story at the time of the retreat from the Battle of Mons in August 1914. The story described phantom bowmen from the Battle of Agincourt summoned by a soldier calling on St. George, destroying a German host. Machen's story was not, however, labelled as fiction and the same edition of the \"Evening News\" ran a story by a different author under the heading \"Our Short Story\". Additionally, Machen's story was written from a first-hand perspective and was a kind of false document, a technique Machen knew well. The unintended result was that Machen had a number of requests to provide evidence for his sources for the story soon after its publication, from readers who thought it was true, to which he responded that it was completely imaginary, as he had no desire to create a hoax.\n\nA month or two later Machen received requests from the editors of parish magazines to reprint the story, which were granted. In the introduction to \"The Bowmen and Other Legends of the War\" (1915) Machen relates that an unnamed priest, the editor of one of these magazines, subsequently wrote to him asking if he would allow the story to be reprinted in pamphlet form, and if he would write a short preface giving sources for the story. Machen replied that they were welcome to reprint but he could not give any sources for the story since he had none. The priest replied that Machen must be mistaken, that the \"facts\" of the story must be true, and that Machen had just elaborated on a true account. As Machen later said:\nAround that time variations of the story began to appear, told as authentic histories, including an account that told how the corpses of German soldiers had been found on the battlefield with arrow wounds.\n\nIn \"The Bowmen\" Machen's soldier saw \"a long line of shapes, with a shining about them.\" A Mr. A. P. Sinnett, writing in the \"Occult Review\", stated that \"those who could see said they saw 'a row of shining beings' between the two armies.\" This led Machen to suggest that the bowmen of his story had become the Angels of Mons. This last point was challenged by Harold Begbie in his book: \"On the Side of the Angels: A Reply to Arthur Machen\", London 1915.\n\nOn 24 April 1915, an account was published in the British \"Spiritualist\" magazine telling of visions of a supernatural force that miraculously intervened to help the British at the decisive moment of the battle. This rapidly resulted in a flurry of similar accounts and the spread of wild rumours. Descriptions of this force varied from it being medieval longbow archers alongside St. George to a strange luminous cloud, though eventually the most popular version came to be angelic warriors. Similar tales of such battlefield visions occurred in medieval and ancient warfare. Atrocity reports like the Rape of Belgium and that of the Crucified Soldier paved the way for a belief that the Christian God would intervene directly against such an evil enemy. However, there are strong similarities between many of these accounts of visions and Machen's story published six months earlier.\n\nIn May 1915 a full-blown controversy was erupting, with the angels being used as proof of the action of divine providence on the side of the Allies in sermons across Britain, and then spreading into newspaper reports published widely across the world. Machen, bemused by all this, attempted to end the rumours by republishing the story in August in book form, with a long preface stating the rumours were false and originated in his story. It became a bestseller, and resulted in a vast series of other publications claiming to provide evidence of the Angels' existence. Machen tried to set the record straight, but any attempt to lessen the impact of such an inspiring story was seen as bordering on treason by some. These new publications included popular songs and artists' renderings of the angels. There were more reports of angels and apparitions from the front including Joan of Arc.\n\nKevin McClure's study describes two types of accounts circulating, some more clearly based on Machen, others with different details. In a time of intense media interest all these reports allegedly confirming sightings of supernatural activity were second-hand and some of them were hoaxes created by soldiers who were not even at Mons. A careful investigation by the Society for Psychical Research in 1915 said of the first-hand testimony, \"We have received none at all, and of testimony at second-hand we have none that would justify us in assuming the occurrence of any supernormal phenomenon\". The SPR went on to say the stories relating to battlefield \"visions\" which circulated during the spring and summer of 1915, \"prove on investigation to be founded on mere rumour, and cannot be traced to any authoritative source.” Given that the Society for Psychical Research believed in the existence of supernatural forces, the conclusions of this report are highly significant.\n\nThe sudden spread of the rumours in the spring of 1915, six months after the events and Machen's story was published, is also puzzling. The stories published then often attribute their sources to anonymous British officers. The latest and most detailed examination of the Mons story by David Clarke suggests these men may have been part of a covert attempt by military intelligence to spread morale-boosting propaganda and disinformation. As it was a time of Allied problems with the \"Lusitania\" sinking, Zeppelin attacks and failure to achieve a breakthrough on the Western Front, the timing would make military sense. Some of the stories conveniently claimed that sources could not be revealed for security reasons.\n\nThe only real evidence of visions from actual named serving soldiers provided during the debate stated that they saw visions of phantom cavalrymen, not angels or bowmen, and this occurred during the retreat rather than at the battle itself. Furthermore, these visions did not intervene to attack or deter German forces, a crucial element in Machen's story and in the later tales of angels. Since during the retreat many troops were exhausted and had not slept properly for days, such visions could be hallucinations.\n\nAccording to the conclusion of the most detailed study of the event it seems that Machen's story provided the genesis for the vast majority of the tales. The stories themselves certainly boosted morale on the home front, as popular enthusiasm was dying down in 1915 and they demonstrate the usefulness of religion in wartime.\n\nAfter the war the story continued to be frequently repeated but no evidence to support the claim that the angels existed was ever given by those who were there. The best evidence provided was in Brigadier-General John Charteris' memoirs \"At G.H.Q.\", published in 1931, which said the story of the Angels of Mons was a popular rumour amongst the troops in September 1914; this was the earliest any account said the rumour was in circulation. However it appears from examination of his original letters he wrote those entries after the war and falsified the dates. Given his association with pieces of allied propaganda like the story of the “German Corpse-Rendering Works” (\"Kadaververwertungsanstalt\") this might indicate Charteris had been behind an attempt to use the angels for propaganda purposes.\n\nMachen was associated with the story for the rest of his life and grew sick of the connection, as he regarded “The Bowmen” as a poor piece of work. He made little money from the story then or later.\n\nThe sudden revival of interest in appearances of angels from the 1980s onwards, especially in the United States, not only amongst Christians, but those interested in the New Age, has caused uncritical accounts of the story of the angels who saved the British Army to be regularly published in books and magazines. Similarly, the story is also often used by sceptics as a good example of how believers in the supernatural can become convinced of fantastic things by slender evidence. References to the story can be found in World War I set novels and films like \"\". The Friends of Arthur Machen frequently publish articles on developments in the case.\n\nIn 2001, an article in \"The Sunday Times\" claimed that a diary, film and photographic evidence proving the existence of the Angels of Mons from a World War I soldier named William Doidge had been found. The article discussed a long involved story in which Doidge was involved with an American GI and an angel seen years later in Woodchester Mansion. It was claimed Marlon Brando and Tony Kaye were going to spend £350,000 to buy the evidence to make a film. Other papers like \"Variety\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" and television programmes soon followed up the story and a website connected to the mystery became very popular. The footage was supposedly found in a trunk in an antique shop by Danny Sullivan in Monmouth, close to Machen's birthplace of Caerleon. In 2002, in a BBC Radio documentary; \"The Making of an Urban Myth\", Sullivan admitted the story was a complete hoax to drum up interest in Woodchester Mansion; the footage and soldier never existed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56787589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56787589", "title": "April 2018 inter-Korean summit", "text": "April 2018 inter-Korean summit\n\nThe April 2018 inter-Korean summit took place on April 27 2018 on the South Korean side of the Joint Security Area, between Moon Jae-in, President of South Korea, and Kim Jong-un, Chairman of the Workers' Party of Korea, and Supreme Leader of North Korea. The summit was the third inter-Korean summit – and the first in eleven years. It was also the first time since the end of the Korean War in 1953 that a North Korean leader entered the South's territory; President Moon also briefly crossed into the North's territory.\n\nThe summit took place after the two sides held several meetings in preparation for the joint attendance at the 2018 Winter Olympics. The idea initially was brought forward through an official invitation from the North to conduct a meeting. The summit was focused on the North Korean nuclear weapons program and denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. The Panmunjom Declaration was made following the summit.\n\nThe two Koreas' high government officials held a working-level meeting on 4 April 2018 to discuss summit details at the Peace House in the Korean Demilitarized Zone. The agenda was planned to include denuclearization, peace establishment and improvement of inter-Korean relations for their mutual benefit. Although more than 200 NGOs called for the inclusion of human rights issues in the North and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe for its abducted citizens in the agenda, these were not included.\n\nThe Peace House was accepted by North Korea for the meeting's location, from among the venues proposed by South Korea, located just south of the military demarcation line in the Joint Security Area of Panmunjeom.\n\nThe meeting was the first visit by a North Korean leader to the territory of the South Area after the Korean War 1950-53.\nThis initial meeting of the two leaders, who shook hands over the demarcation line, was broadcast live. Moon accepted an invitation from Kim to briefly step over to the North's side of the line, a seemingly impromptu moment, before the two walked together to the Peace House.\n\nAs well as the talks, the two leaders conducted a tree-planting ceremony using soil and water from both sides and attended a banquet. Many elements of the meeting were expressly designed for symbolism, including an oval meeting table measuring to represent the year.\n\nThe two leaders were accompanied by their wives, Kim Jung-sook and Ri Sol-ju, and a number of other individuals were present at the meeting:\n\n\n\nOn 24 April 2018, the Japanese Foreign Ministry protested to the Embassy of the Republic of Korea in the State of Japan, citing the appearance of desserts named \"Dokdo\" on the dinner menu used during the summit. Dokdo is the Korean name of a small island group, known as Takeshima in Japanese, midway between the Republic of Korea and Japan. It is the subject of a long-standing sovereignty dispute. The mango mousse desserts were accompanied by Korean-style decorations and a depiction of the Korean peninsula that included the islands. On 27 April 2018, Tarō Kōno, the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs, said he felt it was unnecessary to have a \"Dokdo\" dessert and reiterated claims that the island group is a territory of Japan. Despite the complaint, the Dokdo desserts were served to both Moon Jae-in and Kim Jong-un during the summit. Both also personally cracked open their desserts with small mallets to symbolize a new relationship.\n\nIn a joint press conference, Kim and Moon made a number of pledges regarding co-operation and peace. Notably, these included a pledge to work towards the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, although Kim did not explicitly agree to give up the North's nuclear weapons. Additionally the two leaders agreed to, later in the year, convert the Korean Armistice Agreement into a full peace treaty, formally ending the Korean War after 65 years. Additionally, the leaders pledged to end \"hostile activities\" between their nations, for the resumption of reunion meetings for divided families, to improve connections along their border, and for the cessation of propaganda broadcasts across it. This agreement was known as the Panmunjom Declaration for Peace, Prosperity and Unification of the Korean Peninsula and was signed by both leaders in the South Korean border village of Panmunjom. The press conference was shown live on South Korean television; however, live coverage was not available in North Korea since the country's policy is not to broadcast live events involving its leader.\n\nThe leaders pledged greater communication between them, and that Moon would visit Pyongyang in late 2018.\n\nIn the aftermath of the summit, it was agreed that the loudspeakers in the Korean Demilitarized Zone were dismantled beginning on 1 May. This commitment was fulfilled as planned and both sides also committed to ending their balloon propaganda campaigns as well. At the same time, North Korea agreed to realign its time with South Korea. On 5 May, North Korea changed its time zone so it would match that of South Korea. Also on May 5, an attempt by North Korean defectors to continue the balloon campaign across the border from South Korea was halted by the South Korean government.\n\nDuring the 2018 World Team Table Tennis Championships, the table tennis teams from the two Koreas entered separately, but when they were paired against each other at the quarter-final of the women's event, they negotiated instead to field a joint team for the semifinal, with the agreement of the International Table Tennis Federation. The Korea Team went on to lose to Japan 3-0 in the semi-finals.\n\nOn 26 May, Kim and Moon met again in the Joint Security Area, this time on the North Korean side of the Panmunjom village. The meeting took two hours, and unlike other summits it had not been publicly announced beforehand. Photos released by South Korea's presidential office showed Moon arriving at the northern side of the Panmunjom truce village and shaking hands with Kim's sister, Kim Yo-jong, before sitting down with Kim for their summit. Moon was accompanied by his spy chief, Suh Hoon, while Kim was joined by Kim Yong-chol, a former military intelligence chief who is now a vice chairman of the North Korean ruling party's central committee tasked with inter-Korean relations. The meeting was largely centered around North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's upcoming summit with US President Donald Trump. Kim and Moon also embraced before Moon returned to South Korea. Moon revealed details of the summit in a public address on 27 May.\n\nOn 13 August, it was announced that a third 2018 inter-Korean summit would be held in the North Korean capital of Pyongyang in September. The meeting is designed to capitalize on what was accomplished at the previous two summits. Ri Son Gwon, the head of the North Korean delegation, told reporters that a specific date for the summit was already set, but that they wanted to \"keep reporters wondering.\" It was announced on August 31 that South Korean President Moon Jae-In will send a special delegation to North Korea on September 5 to hold more nuclear talks and set up the summit. The delegation arrived in North Korea as scheduled. It was determined that the summit would be held for three days and would take place between September 18 and September 20. The summit was officially held during the scheduled dates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42438356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42438356", "title": "Assistance League", "text": "Assistance League\n\nAssistance League is a national nonprofit organization in the United States with over 120 chapters dedicated to providing accessibility and fulfillment of community needs at the local level.\n\nEach chapter focuses on helping their community with philanthropic programs ranging from donating classroom supplies, clothing and books to supplying teddy bears to law enforcement in giving to traumatized children, and providing Assault Survival Kits of new clothing at hospitals for rape victims.\n\nAssistance League was established in 1919 by the philanthropic efforts of Anne Banning (daughter-in-law of Phineas Banning) and Ada Edwards Laughlin (daughter-in-law of Homer Laughlin) to form Assistance League of Southern California. Anne Banning, was a leading philanthropist of her time, with a mission to aid families in distress as a result of World War I. Her vision to provide service to all in need, regardless of their race, religion or culture, laid the foundation for the future of the organization. The first Assistance League thrift shop opened as a revenue source for the philanthropic programs: Day Nursery, Girl’s Club, and others.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Assistance League called on daughters and granddaughters of its members to assist in various philanthropic projects. This participation developed into Assisteens, a youth focused program of volunteerism for grades seven to 12.\n\nAfter 1935 neighboring communities sprouted affiliate chapters and a national representation was beginning to organize under the guidelines of Ada Laughlin. In August 1949 National Assistance League was formed.\n\nSince its inception, the Assistance League has had the support of Hollywood celebrities participating in volunteerism and charitable events. It was not uncommon to see celebrities like Jean Harlow reading stories to children in need, Claudia Dell waiting tables for a good cause or Shirley Temple Black, who was actively involved as a member, running the register at an Assistance League gift shop.\n\nThe Assistance League and its chapters have won numerous awards including being nominated and winning the All-Star Award for Make a Difference Day in 2012 and 2013, an annual recognition to individuals and organizations making the biggest impact nationally through volunteerism.\n\n"}
{"id": "29355628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29355628", "title": "Astor Opera House", "text": "Astor Opera House\n\nThe Astor Opera House, also known as the Astor Place Opera House and later the Astor Place Theatre, was an opera house in Manhattan, New York City, located on Lafayette Street between Astor Place and East 8th Street. Designed by Isaiah Rogers, the theater was conceived by impresario Edward Fry, the brother of composer William Henry Fry, who managed the opera house during its entire history.\n\nFry engaged the Sanquerico and Patti Opera Company under the management of John Sefton to perform the first season of opera at the house. The opera house opened on November 22, 1847 with a performance of Giuseppe Verdi's \"Ernani\" with Adelino Vietti in the title role. Sefton and his company were not re-engaged by Fry, and the opera management of the house went to Cesare Lietti for the second season. During his tenure the opera house presented the United States premiere of Verdi's \"Nabucco\" on April 4, 1848.\n\nLietti was also replaced after one season, and the Astor's third and longest lasting opera manager, Max Maretzek, was hired for the third season which commenced in November 1848. The following year Maretzek founded his own opera company, the Max Maretzek Italian Opera Company, with whom he continued to stage operas at the Astor Opera House through 1852. Under Maretzek the opera house saw the New York premiere of Donizetti's \"Anna Bolena\" on January 7, 1850 with soprano Apollonia Bertucca (later Maretzek's wife) as the title heroine.\n\nThe theatre was built with the intention of attracting only the \"best\" patrons, the \"uppertens\" of New York society, who were increasingly turning out to see European singers who appeared at local venues such as Niblo's Garden. It was expected that an opera house would be: a substitute for a general drawing room – a refined attraction which the ill-mannered would not be likely to frequent, and around which the higher classes might gather, for the easier interchange of courtesies, and for that closer view which aides the candidacy of acquaintance. In pursuit of this agenda, the theatre was created with the comfort of the upper classes in mind: benches, the normal seating in theatres at the time, were replaced by upholstered seats, available only by subscription, as were the two tiers of boxes. On the other hand, 500 general admission patrons were relegated to the benches of a \"cockloft\" reachable only by a narrow stairway, and otherwise isolated from the gentry below, and the theatre enforced a dress code which required \"freshly shaven faces, evening dress, and kid gloves.\"\n\nLimiting the attendance of the lower classes was partly intended to avoid the problems of rowdyism which plagued other theaters in the entertainment district at the time, especially in the theatres on the Bowery. Nevertheless, it was the deadly Astor Place riot in 1849 which caused the theatre to close permanently – provoked by competing performances of \"Macbeth\" by English actor William Charles Macready at the Opera House (which was operating under the name \"Astor Place Theatre\", not being able to sustain itself on a full season of opera) and American Edwin Forrest at the nearby Broadway Theatre. \n\nAfter the riot, the theater was unable to overcome the reputation of being the \"Massacre Opera House\" at \"DisAster Place.\" By May 1853, the interior had been dismantled and the furnishings sold off, with the shell of the building sold for $140,000 to the New York Mercantile Library, which renamed the building \"Clinton Hall\". \n\nIn 1890, in need of additional space, the Association tore down the opera house building and replaced it with an 11-story building, also called Clinton Hall, which still stands on the site.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "1453845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1453845", "title": "B. H. DeLay", "text": "B. H. DeLay\n\nBeverly Homer DeLay (August 12, 1891 – July 4, 1923) was an American aviator, engineer and actor.\n\nDeLay was born in Alameda, California on August 12, 1891. He was educated at the Engineering School of the University of California and at the University of Heidelberg in Germany.\n\nDeLay first worked as a gold mine manager, then became a racecar driver, and later airport manager and owner, which evolved into performing for motion pictures. DeLay's early daredevil style was theatrically demonstrated in his high-speed race moves in the domed dance pavilion on Pickering Pleasure Pier in Ocean Park, California. His theatrical family entertainment history reaches back over 100 years to Europe, including stage actors, dancers, musicians, and theatre impresarios.\n\nHe died on July 4, 1923.\n\nDeLay tirelessly promoted aviation, while pushing the limits in the entertainment industry, especially through innovative performances. He implemented the first lighted airport in the United States on DeLay Airfield. He also initiated the first aerial police in the nation in Venice, Los Angeles. DeLay was inspired to this action after a marine rescue attempt was thwarted. He proposed that his aerial forces, equipped with flotation devices, be ready for rescue at a moments notice. This force was approved through the Board of Directors of the Venice Chamber of Commerce. When DeLay took charge of Ince Airfield (Venice Airfield) he was on a mission so that “the passenger service will be advanced to a degree of perfection and safety never before attained.”\n\nDeLay was a constant aviation promoter through staging exhibitions (including barnstorming) and through performing aviation firsts for the movies. Some of his airshow expertise included the nose dive, ghost dive, Immelmann turn, barrel rolls, tail spins, multiple loop-the-loops, mock battles, racing, and flying fireworks. DeLay pioneered several aviation firsts for the motion pictures. (details in the next section)\n\nDuring his ten years of flying experience, DeLay conducted aerial rides with politicians, actors, and unusual personalities, such as opera diva (Luisa Tetrazzini) and a princess (Tsianina). He threw out the game opener baseball from his plane to DeLay Field as he flew over. The semi-pro baseball team he named for Venice, was called the Highflyers. He dropped event tickets, flew city engineers to produce aerial maps of Venice, and showered other promotional or ceremonial objects for events, such as masses of flowers over the ocean as tributes to war heroes. DeLay and several of his planes were also in movie aviator Ormer Locklear’s aerial funeral procession. In a promotion of Venice as a leading entertainment destination, DeLay flew a night loop-the-loop “fire ride” with fireworks on the back of his plane, while 20 navy destroyer ships flashed their search lights upon the horizon for his performance. DeLay was driven to advance aviation with continuous feats, such as proving that loop-the-loops could be performed at night.\n\nThe current developed site of DeLay Airfield is bordered by Venice Blvd., Abbot Kinney Blvd. and Washington Way: GOOGLE Satellite Map of DeLay Airfield site.\n\nB.H. DeLay performed at least half a dozen stunt firsts for the movies, including the first change from plane to train and train to plane. Another DeLay first was from saddle to plane, as well as auto to plane. \"Daredevil\" DeLay was the first to knock down a building with a plane on screen as well.\n\nIn one of DeLay's contracts he was engaged to rescue the heroine from the top of a burning building and at the same time he was to crash into the burning tower where the villain was hanging on to a flag pole, knocking over the tower and dashing the villain to his death. This scene was successfully performed with the aid of a setting constructed at the Venice Field.\n\nDeLay Field (Venice Field) was previously owned by Thomas Harper Ince, the director and producer who is well known for inventing the motion picture studio system. B.H. DeLay managed Thomas Ince's field before owning it. DeLay was in numerous motion pictures, including westerns, comedies and dramas. He acted and performed aerials with Ruth Roland, Oliver Hardy, Larry Semon, Milton Sills, Agnes Ayres, Florence Vidor, Al St. John, Helen Holmes, Viola Dana, Warner Oland, Thomas Ince, Ormer Locklear, Al Wilson, Frank Clarke, and many other notables. DeLay’s character was also well respected by the Warner Bros. Jack Warner wrote that DeLay was a \"real flyer...\"\n\nB.H. DeLay conducted a movie stunt pilot training school at his airfield in Venice. DeLay worked with over 25 motion picture companies including the original Warner Bros., Pathé, Vitagraph, Astra, Universal, and Fox. (B.H. DeLay Aircraft Company advertising cites several of the following movies (below) to encourage the glamorous role of stunt aviation for the movies.)\n\nB.H. DeLay was 31 when he died (along with passenger aviator, R.I. Short, President of the Essandee Corporation) in a sabotaged plane crash performing in front of crowds of thousands at Ocean Park on July 4, 1923. He was in the middle of a loop-the-loop in his plane, the \"Wasp\", when the wings folded back; barreling them nose first into the earth. The plane burst into flames shortly after they were pulled from the wreckage. Pins in his wings were found to be a substandard size of only 3/8 of an inch, rather than 1/2 or 3/4, indicating wing tampering. Several headlines from Venice and other Los Angeles newspapers state that DeLay was murdered through sabotage while performing on July 4 in 1923. It remains an unsolved murder mystery.\n\nHe was also shot at in Clover Field (now Santa Monica Airport) days before his crash. A couple of other incidents occurred before the crash as well. In 1921, DeLay and seven others (including his lawyer, Francis J. Heney), were brought into court. C. E. Frey, who insisted that he bought DeLay Airfield—yet he had no proof—had a couple of his thugs plant posts in DeLay's airport so that planes could not take off. After DeLay had his crew remove the posts, C. E. Frey's gang dug trenches so that the planes could not take off. C. E. Frey ended up in jail with B.H. DeLay, C. Y. DeLay (B.H.'s father), G. F. Stephenson, Howard Patterson, along with others such as stunt performers, Frank Clarke and pilots Wallace Timm and Glen Boyd. DeLay had purchased the airport from the Crawford Airplane Company in September 1919.\n\nNot only was B. H. DeLay an innovator, he was a humanitarian who frequently organized and performed in aviation or actor benefits for individuals and organizations in need.\n\nDeLay was involved (acting, aviation & stunt directing/coordinating) with over 50 movies including:\n\n\"[In 1922] DeLay dominated stunts in the motion picture industry.\" (Wynne 1987:28)\n\n\nWeb\n\nBooks\n"}
{"id": "57072713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57072713", "title": "Beton Fest", "text": "Beton Fest\n\nBeton Fest is an international 3D street art festival held annually in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is held in July of every year and lasts for five days, bringing in international street artists from all over the world. It was established in 2012 by the arts association \"Progres\" in cooperation with the Academy of Fine Arts, Sarajevo. Apart from showcasing 3D street art, it also organizes the \"Beton Music Stage\" which holds concerts and open-air parties for the duration of the festival. It is the only 3D street art festival in Southeastern Europe and has hosted many renowned street artists such as Vera Bugatti , Giovanna la Pietra , Tony Cuboliquido , Manuel Bastante and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "180050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180050", "title": "Black Wednesday", "text": "Black Wednesday\n\nBlack Wednesday occurred in the United Kingdom on 16 September 1992, when John Major's Conservative government was forced to withdraw the pound sterling from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) after it was unable to keep the pound above its agreed lower limit in the ERM. In 1997, the UK Treasury estimated the cost of Black Wednesday at £3.4 billion. In 2005, documents released under the Freedom of Information Act indicated that the actual cost may have been slightly less, £3.3 billion. At that time, the United Kingdom held the Presidency of the European Communities.\n\nThe trading losses in August and September were estimated at £800 million, but the main loss to taxpayers arose because devaluation could have made them a profit. The Treasury papers show that if the government had maintained $24 billion foreign currency reserves and the pound had fallen by the same amount, the UK would have made a £2.4 billion profit on the pound sterling's devaluation.\n\nWhen the ERM was set up in 1979, the United Kingdom declined to join. This was a controversial decision, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Geoffrey Howe, was staunchly pro-European. His successor, Nigel Lawson, a believer in a fixed exchange rate, admired the low inflationary record of West Germany. He attributed it to the strength of the Deutsche Mark and the management of the Bundesbank. Thus, although the UK had not joined the ERM, from early 1987 to March 1988 the Treasury followed a semi-official policy of 'shadowing' the Deutsche Mark. Matters came to a head in a clash between Lawson and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's economic adviser Alan Walters, when Walters claimed that the Exchange Rate Mechanism was \"half baked\".\n\nThis led to Lawson's resignation as chancellor to be replaced by his old protégé John Major, who, with Douglas Hurd, the then Foreign Secretary, convinced the Cabinet to sign Britain up to the ERM in October 1990, effectively guaranteeing that the British government would follow an economic and monetary policy preventing the exchange rate between the pound and other member currencies from fluctuating by more than 6%. On 8 October 1990, Thatcher entered the pound into the ERM mechanism at DM 2.95 to the pound. Hence, if the exchange rate ever neared the bottom of its permitted range, DM 2.773 (€1.4178 at the DM/Euro conversion rate), the government would be obliged to intervene. With UK inflation at three times the rate of Germany's, interest rates at 15%, it could be argued that the conditions for joining the ERM were not favourable at that time.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 1990s, high German interest rates, set by the Bundesbank to counteract inflationary effects related to excess expenditure on German reunification, caused significant stress across the whole of the ERM. The UK and Italy had additional difficulties with their double deficits, while the UK was also hurt by the rapid depreciation of the United States Dollar – a currency in which many British exports were priced – that summer. Issues of national prestige and the commitment to a doctrine that the fixing of exchange rates within the ERM was a pathway to a single European currency inhibited the adjustment of exchange rates. In the wake of the rejection of the Maastricht Treaty by the Danish electorate in a referendum in the spring of 1992, and announcement that there would be a referendum in France as well, those ERM currencies that were trading close to the bottom of their ERM bands came under pressure from foreign exchange traders.\n\nIn the months leading up to Black Wednesday, George Soros had been building a huge short position in pounds sterling that would become immensely profitable if the pound fell below the lower band of the ERM. Soros recognized the unfavourable position at which the United Kingdom joined the ERM, believing the rate at which the UK was brought into the Exchange Rate Mechanism was too high, their inflation was also much too high (triple the German rate), and British interest rates were hurting their asset prices. Soros made over £1 billion in profit by short selling sterling.\n\nThe UK government attempted to prop up the depreciating pound to avoid withdrawal from the monetary system the country had joined two years earlier. John Major raised interest rates to 10 percent and authorised the spending of billions worth of foreign currency reserves to buy up the sterling being sold on the currency markets, but the measures failed to prevent the pound falling below its minimum level in the ERM. The Treasury took the decision to defend the sterling's position, believing that to devalue would be to promote inflation.\n\nSoros' Quantum Fund began a massive sell-off of pounds on Tuesday, 15 September 1992. The Exchange Rate Mechanism stated that the Bank of England was required to accept any offers to sell pounds. However, the Bank of England only accepted orders during the trading day. When the markets opened in London the next morning, the Bank of England began their attempt to prop up their currency as per the decision made by Norman Lamont and Robin Leigh-Pemberton, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer and Governor of the Bank of England respectively. They began buying orders to the amount of 300 million pounds twice before 8:30 AM to little effect. The Bank of England's intervention was ineffective because Soros' Quantum Fund was dumping pounds far faster. The Bank of England continued to buy and Quantum continued to sell until Lamont told Prime Minister John Major that their pound purchasing was failing to produce results.\n\nAt 10:30 AM on 16 September, the British government announced a rise in the base interest rate from an already high 10 to 12 percent to tempt speculators to buy pounds. Despite this and a promise later the same day to raise base rates again to 15 percent, dealers kept selling pounds, convinced that the government would not stick with its promise. By 7:00 that evening, Norman Lamont, then Chancellor, announced Britain would leave the ERM and rates would remain at the new level of 12 percent; however, on the next day the interest rate was back on 10%. \n\nIt was later revealed that the decision to withdraw had been agreed at an emergency meeting during the day between Norman Lamont, Prime Minister John Major, Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, President of the Board of Trade Michael Heseltine, and Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke (the latter three all being staunch pro-Europeans as well as senior Cabinet Ministers), and that the interest rate hike to 15% had only been a temporary measure to prevent a rout in the pound that afternoon.\n\nOther ERM countries such as Italy, whose currencies had breached their bands during the day, returned to the system with broadened bands or with adjusted central parities. Even in this relaxed form, ERM-I proved vulnerable, and ten months later the rules were relaxed further to the point of imposing very little constraint on the domestic monetary policies of member states.\n\nThe effect of the high German interest rates, and high British interest rates, had arguably put Britain into recession as large numbers of businesses failed and the housing market crashed. Some commentators, following Norman Tebbit, took to referring to ERM as an \"Eternal Recession Mechanism\" after the UK fell into recession during the early 1990s. While many people in the UK recall Black Wednesday as a national disaster that permanently affected the country's international prestige, some in the Conservative Party claim that the forced ejection from the ERM was a \"Golden Wednesday\" or \"White Wednesday\", the day that paved the way for an economic revival, with the Conservatives handing Tony Blair's New Labour a much stronger economy in 1997 than had existed in 1992 as the new economic policy swiftly devised in the aftermath of Black Wednesday led to re-establishment of economic growth with falling unemployment and inflation. Monetary policy switched to inflation targeting.\n\nThe Conservative Party government's image had been damaged to the extent that the electorate was more inclined to support the opposition of the time – that the economic recovery ought to be credited to external factors, as opposed to government policies implemented by the Conservatives. The Conservatives had recently won the 1992 general election, and the Gallup poll for September showed a small lead of 2.5% for the Conservative Party. By the October poll, following Black Wednesday, their share of the intended vote in the poll had plunged from 43% to 29%. The debacle would ultimately tarnish the Tories' reputation (leading to three consecutive defeats in following national elections, all by large margins) until the late 2000s, when under David Cameron's leadership, the Conservatives surpassed Gordon Brown's Labour government in party image for the first time since September 1992 (partly because of the effects of the Great Recession), eventually gaining the most seats in the 2010 general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48949130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48949130", "title": "Blazing Swan", "text": "Blazing Swan\n\nBlazing Swan is an annual regional Burning Man event held near Jilakin Lake in the Shire of Kulin, Western Australia. It is an experiment in temporary community and artistic expression, and is guided by eleven main principles, including \"radical inclusion\", \"gifting\" and \"radical self-reliance\". The event occurs around Easter each year, usually over a period of seven days. The event location is in dry bushland adjacent to Jilakin Lake, and is referred to as Jilakin Rock City. Each year a swan-shaped wooden effigy is built and burned at the culmination of the event.\n\nBlazing Swan was started by a collective of artists/producers whom have all attended the Burning Man Festival in the USA and were inspired to organize an official regional event in WA.\n\nBlazing Swan is understood not as an event, but as referring to a way of life lived consistently with these 11 Principles.\nThey are meant to be taken as a whole, as a set of commonly-understood values.\n\n\nTheme camps are an integral part of Burning Man culture. These are established by the event participants and contribute to the unique identity of Blazing Swan.\n\nTheme camps at Blazing Swan 2016 include:\n\nBlazing Swan, Inc. is the not-for-profit incorporated association dedicated to organising the annual Blazing Swan event. Its headquarters are in Fremantle, Western Australia. As per Blazing Swan Inc.'s constitution, its main objectives are to:\n\nBlazing Swan Inc. is involved with a number of community art projects and philanthropic activities in Western Australia. Some examples are:\n\n"}
{"id": "14984426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984426", "title": "Cambridge Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Cambridge Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Cambridge Shakespeare Festival is a festival of the plays of William Shakespeare held annually in Cambridge, England. The festival was founded in 1987 by Artistic Director Dr David Crilly.\n\nThe productions are performed in full period costume with live Elizabethan music. The festival attracts upwards of 25,000 visitors for the productions which take place over a period of eight weeks in July and August. Each performance is held outside in the private gardens of colleges of the University of Cambridge, including King's College Gardens, Robinson College Gardens, Girton College Gardens, St John's College Gardens, Trinity College Gardens and Downing College Gardens.\n\nThe ethos of the Company is to provide access to all to Shakespeare's work without any prior knowledge of the play or author, and the Artistic Director has made it a Company policy to avoid unnecessary theatrical artifice and special effects. To that end the plays are performed without staging or elaborate lighting and the action takes place in and around the space in which the audience sits. The centrepiece of any production is, therefore, the language - thus returning to Shakespeare's original mode of communication with his audience.\n\nIn 2009 The Independent on Sunday listed the Festival fourth in its 'Top 50 UK Arts Festival' and 2015 saw the publication of a book on the history, style and development of the Festival, entitled Shakespeare in Cambridge: a celebration of the Shakespeare Festival, by Andrew Muir.\n\nMuir, Andrew (2015), 'Shakespeare in Cambridge: A Celebration of the Shakespeare Festival'. Amberley Publishing. \n\n"}
{"id": "6217885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6217885", "title": "Chicago Latino Film Festival", "text": "Chicago Latino Film Festival\n\nThe Chicago Latino Film Festival is a U.S. film festival, focusing on Latin America and Latinos. Held annually in Chicago since 1985, it is organized by the International Latino Cultural Center (ILCC) and sponsored by a number of national corporations as well as by the local Hispanic and Latino community. The Festival features the work of promising Latin American filmmakers with a special emphasis on films that showcase the enormous diversity of Latin America, and that defy commonly held stereotypes about Hispanics and Latinos.\n\nDuring the majority of screenings, the audience have the opportunity to participate in discussions with local and visiting filmmakers. In an effort to highlight the importance of the artistic and educational value of all films, the Chicago Latino Film Festival is non-competitive with the exception of the coveted Audience Choice Award, as determined by the filmgoers and the Gloria Achievement Award. Since 1999, the Gloria Award has been given as a special recognition to individuals and institutions for their outstanding contributions to the Latino arts.\n\nThe Chicago Latino Film Festival presents a series of special segments as part of the general programming: Made In USA, Women In Film, Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual/Trans (LGBT) and Animation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267667", "title": "Chimera House", "text": "Chimera House\n\nThe Chimera House (also known as the \"13 floor money back house\") is an urban legend which consists of the usual young teens going out for a night on the town, only to stumble across a large, worn down multiple storey building where they are offered to go through a haunted attraction that consists of \"real\" horrors inside. In the story, the teens are asked to pay a certain amount of money (anywhere from 20-100 dollars) and told they will receive a portion back for every floor they complete. The twist is that no one has ever completed the house, and the ones who tried never came back out. Rumors state about the various horrors inside the house, from poisonous/deadly animals, to deformed humans, to the supernatural. Accounts vary as to the exact number of floors in the house, but most accounts give the house 13 floors.\n\nThe legend is usually set in the south or midwest since there are a large amount of open and unknown areas in those parts. The editor of Haunted Attraction Magazine believes the urban legend originally started in Kansas City while others have suggested that the legend was also inspired by real haunted attractions like Britannia Manor and Raven's Grin Inn. Although the Chimera House has never been proven to exist, some people still search fervently for it and several haunted attractions are asked if they are the infamous 13 floor haunted house every October. \n\nThe legend of the Chimera House has been fueled by both hoaxes and several haunted attractions have tried to cash in on the legend by offering refunds if certain conditions are met. The anthology \"Haunted Houses\" edited by Robert D. San Souci contains a short story inspired by the legend called \"Chimera House,\" in which several inner-city kids are led to the infamous haunted attraction.\n\n"}
{"id": "7230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7230", "title": "Conspiracy", "text": "Conspiracy\n\nA conspiracy is a secret agreement by people to commit something wrong or illegal. Depending on the circumstances, a conspiracy may be a crime, or a civil wrong.\n\nA \"conspiracy theory\" is an explanation of an event or situation that invokes an unwarranted conspiracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51848676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51848676", "title": "Djibi, the Kitten", "text": "Djibi, the Kitten\n\nDjibi, the Kitten () is the last novel of Felix Salten, published originally in 1945 and translated into English in 1946. Similarly as in other Salten's late books, the protagonist is an animal, this time a young female cat called Djibi.\n\nIn \"Renni the Rescuer\", the main animal character had been a loyal servant to humans, but Djibi is an independent cat who chooses for herself where to live. The novel begins dramatically with a drowning attempt which the young kitten survives. A boy rescues her from the river and takes to his home where a dog adopts her and feeds along with other puppies. But when the boy rebuffs the cat, she leaves the farm immediately and, for a while, lives in the forest and kills pheasants. After being wounded by a gamekeeper, she decides to take shelter with humans again, and a kind teacher, Salten's alter ego, adopts her. After that, Djibi lives with the teacher and his wife, but her strong hunting instinct finally leads Djibi to her demise.\n\nThe main theme of the book are the reciprocal interactions between men and animals, especially cats and dogs. Unlike in Salten's earlier animal novels, for instance \"Bambi's Children\", there isn't much anthropomorphism in \"Djibi\" — there is only one short dialogue between Djibi and a marten. The human characters, in contrast to the animals in the book, mostly have no personal names, but are referred to as “the teacher,” “the farmer,” etc.\n\nThe first English translation of \"Djibi\" by Raya Levin appeared in the United Kingdom in 1946, illustrated by Walter Linsenmaier as the original Swiss edition, but there is also an anonymous American translation, Jibby the Cat, illustrated by Fritz Kredel, which was published in 1948 by Julian Messner in New York City. This edition differs greatly from Salten's original text. Not only has it a happy ending — Djibi's death is left out — but it also has a happy opening added to it: the novel begins with five pages depicting Djibi's (or Jibby's) sweet life before the attempt on her life. The novel has been largely rewritten, and new incidents have been added to the story. For instance, in the Swiss and the British edition, the boy takes the kitten from the river directly to his home, but in the American edition, he first takes it to the teacher (or “schoolmaster Victor” in this edition). The Americal edition also adds chapter numbers and chapter titles to the book, and most human characters have personal names.\n\nFor example, the episode where Djibi decides to leave the farm is very different in the two English-language editions. The British edition follows very closely Salten's original German-language text, but the American edition has it rewritten:\n\nThe book has also been translated at least into French in 1946 and into Swedish in 1974, both with Linsenmaier's illustrations; the Swedish translation is slightly shortened. A 2016 Finnish translation is unillustrated. In 2016, Raya Levin's translation was published also in the United States, illustrated presumably by Richard Cowdrey.\n"}
{"id": "33994079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33994079", "title": "Erntedankfest Düsseldorf-Urdenbach", "text": "Erntedankfest Düsseldorf-Urdenbach\n\nThe Erntedankfest (\"English:\" \"harvest festival\") in Düsseldorf-Urdenbach is an annual traditional celebration, incorporating most parts of this borough and attracting thousands of tourists to thank God for the gifts of harvest. With a history of 90 years and about 40 participating groups it marks one of the biggest and most important Erntedankfest celebrations in the Rheinland. It includes church services, huge parades and music in a traditional fair atmosphere.\n\nThe Erntedankfest is an important part of Urdenbach's tradition and marks one of the most\nimportant events in the south of Düsseldorf and the Rheinland. \n\nIt differs essentially from the Erntedankfest celebrations in Northern America. In the early 1900s, Düsseldorf-Urdenbach was characterized by its agriculture and nature reserves. During that time the Erntedankfest was celebrated by actual farmers to thank God for the harvest. Later, when most of the farmers turned away from their initial business, the remaining farmers were not able to continue this tradition on their own. At that time, in the middle of the 1900s, the ABVU (Allgemeiner Bürgerverein Urdenbachs / \"engl.:\" \"general citizens association of Urdenbach\") overtook the management of the Erntedankfest and is still responsible for its execution. Nowadays most of the participating groups do not have an actual farming background, but a common interest for the traditions of Urdenbach.\n\nThe Erntedankfest parade always takes place the first Sunday after each year's September 29, the Michaelistag (\"engl.: \"Michaelmas). The Erntedankfest celebration lasts from Friday to Monday. The sequence of events and their schedule is almost the same every year.\n\nThe starting point is the mass in one of the churches in Urdenbach on Friday evening.\n\nOn Saturday most of the groups finalize their preparations during the day for the parade on Sunday. In the evening, people of Urdenbach come together in a big party tent at Piel's Loch (the local fairground) with a special evening's entertainment. Usually entertainment is provided by a DJ and a live band.\n\nOn Sunday usually at 11am a concert takes places at Piel's Loch while people can have a traditional dish: oaf on a spit.\n\nAt 1pm the Erntedankfest groups gather to get ready for the Erntedank parade through Urdenbach, which starts at 2pm and marks the highlight of the weekend. About 40 groups present their individual contributions to the Erntedankfest in form of traditionally decorated tractors and trailers, typical farmers' tools and the traditional costumes worn by the group members. Up to 40.000 visitors line the streets of Urdenbach to get a glimpse of the parade.\n\nRight after the parade the \"Schürreskarrenrennen\" (\"engl.:\" traditional wheelbarrow race) takes place. Members of different groups try to finish a fixed distance first with their traditionally decorated wheelbarrows and wearing the traditional costumes, including bulky clogs. The winner of the race is announced in the party tent later. \n\nIn late afternoon, citizens of Urdenbach and guests celebrate together at places all over the borough, in the party tent, pubs, and at numerous beer stalls.\n\nOn Monday the \"Blotschenball\" (\"engl.:\" \"clogs ball\") takes place, where the new Blotschenkönigspaar (\"engl.:\" \"royal clogs couple\") is announced.\n\nDuring the weekend there are funfair rides and snack stalls at the fairground at Piel's Loch.\n\nSome of the Erntedankfest groups and their websites:\n"}
{"id": "1120311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120311", "title": "European Robotic Arm", "text": "European Robotic Arm\n\nThe European Robotic Arm (ERA) is a robotic arm to be attached to the Russian segment of the International Space Station. It will be the first robot arm able to work on the Russian space station segments, and will supplement the two Russian \"Strela\" cargo cranes that are already installed on the \"Pirs\" module. The ERA is designed and assembled by Airbus Defence and Space Netherlands (formerly Dutch Space).\n\nThe ERA has several interesting features. Most prominent are its ability to 'walk' around the exterior of the Russian segments of the station under its own control, moving hand-over-hand between pre-fixed basepoints, and its ability to perform many tasks automatically or semi-automatically, thereby freeing its operators to do other work. Specific tasks of ERA include:\n\nThe International Space Station already features three robotic arms, the first being the Canadarm2, but because the Russian grapple fixtures are different, that arm and Dextre can only be used on the Zarya module of the Russian segment. The third arm is fixed on the Japanese Experiment Module, the Remote Manipulator System (JEM-RMS) uses a similar grapple fixture to Canadarm2. Because all Russian and European spacecraft dock automatically there is no need to manipulate spacecraft on the Russian segment so the European arm is half the length and less powerful than Canadarm2.\n\nDeveloped for the European Space Agency (ESA) by a number of European space companies, with Dutch Space as prime contractor and subcontractors in 8 countries, the robot arm will be launched by a Proton rocket, along with the MLM, in 2018 (previously planned: 2015) to be put to work in space by the ISS crew. In 2010, a spare elbow joint for the arm was launched preemptively, attached to the Mini-Research Module 1 (MRM-1). The MLM will also serve as home base for ERA; originally, the arm was going to be attached to the cancelled Science Power Platform which would have had eight solar arrays.\n\nAstronauts can control the robot from both inside and outside the space station. Control from inside the space station (Intra Vehicular Activity-Man Machine Interface (IVA-MMI)) uses a laptop, which shows a model of the ERA and its surroundings. Control from outside the space station (Extra Vehicular Activity-Man Machine Interface (EVA-MMI)) uses a specially-designed interface that can be used while in a spacesuit.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185701", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1981", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1981\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1981 was the 26th event of its kind, and was held on 4 April 1981 at the Simmonscourt Pavilion of the Royal Dublin Society in Dublin.\n\nThe presenter was Doireann Ní Bhriain. The United Kingdom's Bucks Fizz were the winners of this contest with the song \"Making Your Mind Up\", beating second place Germany by four points. This year is remembered for the performance of this British band, which launched the group's hugely successful international career, and included a dance-routine where the two male members ripped the skirts off the two female members only to reveal mini-skirts, and today stands as one of the defining moments in the contest's history.\n\nThis year's contest took place in Dublin, the capital of Ireland.\n\nThe contest took place under heavy guard at the 15,000 seat Simmonscourt Pavilion of the RDS, which was normally used for agricultural and horse shows.\nOver 250 armed soldiers and police were on hand to protect against any likely political demonstrations.\n\nHaving won the year before, Ireland hosted the 1981 contest – the second time they had done so. As in 1971, the 1981 Eurovision Song Contest was produced by the country's broadcaster RTÉ. The presenter on this occasion was Doireann Ni Bhriain, who was well known in Ireland at the time as a TV presenter and for the current affairs radio show \"Women Today\". She was chosen for her fluency in Irish and English as well as having studied French, which she spoke with some ease. The director was Ian McGarry, while Noel Kelehan was the chief conductor for the show.\n\nIt cost RTÉ over £300,000 to stage, although this included £110,000 from the EBU. From this, the Irish Government expected to make around £2,000,000 from tourism as a result of staging the show. The RDS would go on to host the next Irish Eurovision production in 1988.\n\nThis year marked the début of Cyprus in the contest, who finished sixth. Returning to the contest was Israel, who did not compete the previous year, despite winning the two years previous to that. They finished seventh. Yugoslavia also returned to the competition after a five-year absence. Italy withdrew for the first time from the contest, due to lack of interest, while Morocco declined to take part after their sole entry the year before.\n\nOf the performers, many previous contestants returned to the contest this year. Notably, Jean-Claude Pascal for Luxembourg, who had won the contest 20 years earlier, although could only manage 11th place this time. Repeated entrants Peter, Sue and Marc returned for the fourth time, after 1971, 1976 and 1979. Performing again for Switzerland, they remain the only act to sing in four different languages (French, English, German and this time, Italian). Other returnees were Marty Brem who had taken part the year before for Austria, Tommy Seebach for Denmark, and Björn Skifs for Sweden. Bucks Fizz member, Cheryl Baker had performed in 1978 with the band Co-Co for the UK, while Sheeba member Maxi had performed as a solo artist in 1973 for Ireland.\n\nThe 46-piece Irish TV orchestra didn't have a saxophone as they didn't consider it an orchestral instrument, which caused great concern with the United Kingdom entry as a saxophone appeared heavily on their song. Andy Hill – the producer of the single – said that had they known, they would have dropped one of the two backing singers to be replaced by a saxophonist, there being two on the actual recording.\n\nThe interval act was traditional Irish band Planxty, who performed the lengthy piece \"Timedance\", which depicted Irish music through the ages. The dancers were from Dublin City Ballet with choreography by Iain Montague. This is seen as a precursor to \"Riverdance\", which became famous after its performance in 1994. The song, which was written by Bill Whelan, went on to be released as a Planxty single and became a No.3 hit in the Irish charts.\n\nThis mix of past and present was also the theme to the contest's opening montage, which featured shots of Celtic ruins, cliffs and castles, edited together with close-ups of art, aeroplanes, architecture and horse races.\n\nThe voting proved to be memorable for its closeness. The UK won by four points, but leading up to this, five countries took pole position at various stages: UK, Germany, France, Switzerland and Ireland. Just before the penultimate vote, three countries (UK, Germany and Switzerland) were all on equal top marks. After this, Switzerland (who had performed second last) were unable to collect points as it was their jury's results that were being announced, while Germany failed to receive votes either. The UK gained eight, which meant that when the final jury (Sweden) were about to cast their votes, the UK needed five points or more to win over either country. Switzerland were quickly eliminated by receiving just one vote. The UK passed the five-point mark and received eight votes, while Germany did indeed receive the maximum 12 points, but it was too late. France finished third, with Switzerland fourth and the hosts Ireland coming in fifth. Of these, Switzerland received the most top votes despite only finishing fourth, while the UK only received two. The UK did however receive points from every competing country. Meanwhile, at the other end of the board was Norway, who finished last with no points for the third time in Eurovision history, gaining no points in 1963 and 1978 as well.\n\nOther memorable moments included a glitch in the scorekeeping, giving host country Ireland 310 extra points instead of the 10 designated by the Luxembourg jury. Also of note, when host Doireann Ní Bhriain attempted to collect Yugoslavia's votes, after repeated attempts to contact them, Yugoslavia's spokeswoman, Helga Vlahović, who went on to present the 1990 contest, finally answered the phone and abruptly answered \"I don't have it\", causing laughter to erupt from the audience. Also during the final vote, Turkey's nine points suddenly disappeared from the scoreboard.\n\nRunner-up Lena Valaitis was in good spirits while talking to the press following the contest and largely unconcerned about losing. Swedish singer Björn Skifs however was more outspoken saying; \"This was not a song contest, it was a show – all these dancing girls, they take away from the songs. I also think there should be a change in the rules to allow us to sing in English. Then we would really be able to compete.\" Harald Tusberg, head of light entertainment for Norwegian television was upbeat about Norway's 'nul points' result as he claimed that their entry would be remembered above many others; \"Who remembers who came second or third – people will remember us!\". Finn Kalvik himself conceded graciously saying that he had enjoyed the week's holiday.\n\nFollowing this year's contest, France withdrew from competing the following year, with the broadcaster announcing that the songs were \"a monument to drivel\". Indeed, many comments had been made regarding the quality of the winning group's performance indicating that the song had most likely won by style over substance. Either way, Bucks Fizz went on to have a very successful career over the next few years, and became one of the top-selling groups of the 1980s. The winning song itself reached No.1 in nine countries and became a top ten hit in nations such as Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, selling four million copies worldwide.\n\nGermany, who had never won the contest up to this point, were becoming increasingly frustrated with their second placings in this and the previous year's contest and made a concerted effort for the following year. This was to pay off, as in 1982 they finally clinched their first victory which was achieved in an overwhelming manner.\n\nThe UK's victory this year meant that the contest would take place in the UK the following year – the seventh time the country had hosted the event (a record unbeaten and later extended by an eighth UK hosting in 1998). The BBC opted to take it to the North Yorkshire town of Harrogate at a later than usual date, 24 April. The 1981 contest was held on 4 April and up to (and including) 2018 has never been as early again.\n\nDecades later, Debbie Cameron, who represented Denmark with Tommy Seebach, revealed in a book about Seebach that she was contacted by a BBC employee, who told her that Bucks Fizz's victory was planned. According to the employee, he had witnessed how BBC technicians had sabotaged the sound checks during the rehearsal of the Danish, the Israeli and the Western German performances. This claim however ignores the fact that the BBC did not host the 1981 Contest.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who maestro the orchestra. \"Host conductor in bold.\"\n\nEach country had a jury who awarded 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 point(s) for their top ten songs.\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the final:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7300106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7300106", "title": "Fais do-do", "text": "Fais do-do\n\nA fais do-do is a Cajun dance party, originating before World War II. \n\nAccording to Mark Humphrey, the parties were named for \"the gentle command ('go to sleep') young mothers offered bawling infants.\" He quotes early Cajun musician Edwin Duhon of the Hackberry Ramblers: \n\"Do-do\" itself is a shortening of the French verb \"dormir\" (to sleep), used primarily in speaking to small children. The phrase is comparable to the American English \"beddy-bye\", and is embodied in an old French lullaby, a song sung to children when putting them down for the night. Its existence in Cajun culture as a source for dances, or bands, comes from an affection for the term itself. \n\nJoshua Caffery, however suggests the true derivation is more plausibly the dance call \"dos à dos\" (back to back), the \"do si do\" call of Anglo-American folk dance; and that sources such as Duhon are merely \"repeating the same apocryphal explanation known by almost anyone who lives in Southern Louisiana.\"\n\nOccurrences include the following:\n\n\"Fais do\" (1998–2010)<br> \n\"Mama Lisa’s World :Children's Songs and Nursery Rhymes\", Lisa Yannucci (2010)\n"}
{"id": "10067974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10067974", "title": "Fortune Playhouse", "text": "Fortune Playhouse\n\nThe Fortune Playhouse was a historic theatre in London. It was located between Whitecross Street and the modern Golden Lane, just outside the City of London. It was founded about 1600, and suppressed by the Puritan Parliament in 1642.\n\nThe Fortune Theatre was contemporary with Shakespeare's Globe, The Swan and others; it stood in the parish of St Giles-without-Cripplegate, to the west of the Shoreditch locations of The Theatre and the Curtain Theatre, between Whitecross Street and Golden Lane in what is today named Fortune Street, just outside the City of London. Between 1600 and 1642, it was among the chief venues for drama in London. The site is said to have originally been occupied by a nursery for the children of Henry VIII. \n\nThe Fortune was erected as the second half of a substantial realignment of London's chief acting companies. In 1597, the Lord Chamberlain's Men had left, or rather been ejected, from The Theatre; they abandoned Shoreditch and in 1599 constructed a new theatre, the Globe, in Southwark. The Admiral's Men, then playing in the nearby and aging Rose Theatre, suddenly faced stiff competition for Bankside audiences.\n\nAt this point, the Admiral's manager Philip Henslowe and his stepson-in-law, the leading actor Edward Alleyn, made plans to move to Shoreditch; Alleyn appears to have funded the new theatre, later selling half-interest to his father-in-law. They paid £240 for a thirty-year lease on a plot of land between tenements on Golding and Whitecross Lane. They hired Peter Street, who had just finished building the Globe, to make them a playhouse. Street was paid £440 for the construction job; with another £80 spent for painting and incidental expenses, the cost of the physical building was £520. The total expenses for the project, including the securing of property rights and clearances of previous leases, came to £1,320. Maintaining the theatre cost about £120 per year in the first decade of its existence.\n\nBecause the contract for the construction was preserved among Alleyn's papers, a good deal more is known about the Fortune than about the other outdoor theatres. The document also casts some light on the features of the Globe, since Henslowe and Alleyn planned their theatre with an eye on their rival's venue; many of the details in the contract are for sizes equal to or bigger than the Globe's equivalent.\n\nThe plot of land on which the theatre sat was approximately square, across and deep. The theatre was built on a foundation of lime and brick; square-shaped (uniquely among the period's amphitheatres), each wall measured eighty feet outside and fifty-five within. The building was three stories tall; the first-floor galleries were twelve feet high, those on the second floor eleven; those on the third, nine. Each row of galleries was twelve feet deep. Henslowe and Alleyn specified that the Fortune outdo the Globe \"in every point for scantlings\"; they also provided, in accordance with common practice, for two-penny rooms and gentlemen's rooms. The building was constructed of lath and plaster, with wood floors in the galleries.\n\nThe stage, and tiring-house, were thrust forward into the middle of the square. The tiring-house had glazed windows; the manner of its attachment to the stage is unknown but presumably similar to that of the Swan. The stage was forty-three feet across; it was covered with tile.\n\nHenslowe and Alleyn's plans met with considerable opposition from the neighbourhood and city officials. With the aid of their patron, Charles Howard, the Lord Admiral, they secured permission from the Privy Council for the venture. Henslowe seems also to have soothed his neighbors' worries by pledging substantial amounts to charity in the parish.\n\nThe theatre housed the Admiral's Men by late 1600, as revealed by correspondence of the Venetian ambassador in London. This troupe remained as tenants for more than two decades, surviving the deaths of both Henslowe and Alleyn, and remaining fairly stable under the successive patronage of Prince Henry and Lord Palsgrave. Upon Henslowe's death, Alleyn assumed full control of the property.\n\nOriginally described as the \"fairest play-house in the town,\" the Fortune suffered a slow decline in reputation over the decades. In 1605, notorious roisterer Mary Frith may have appeared on the boards, singing and playing a lute; it is not clear from the consistory court records in which this event is described if the players were a party to her antics. In 1612, the theatre was mentioned by name in a city order suppressing the post-performance jigs, which authorities believed led to fist-fights and thefts. That this belief had some merit is suggested by a case the next year, in which a country farmer stabbed a city gentleman. In 1614, Thomas Tomkiss's academic play \"Albumazar\" linked the Fortune and the Red Bull Theatre as raucous places to see old-fashioned fare such as \"The Spanish Tragedy\". The aspersion stuck, as did the conjunction of north-side theatres.\n\nYet the conventional view should not be exaggerated; on one and perhaps two occasions, ambassadors visited the theatre. On the first and less certain occasion, a member of the Venetian delegation, Orazio Busino, describes a visit in December 1617 to a theatre that may have been the Fortune. On the second, the notorious Gondomar certainly visited Alleyn and the others there in 1621; after the performance the players held a banquet in his honour.\n\nOn 9 December 1621, the Fortune burned to the ground, taking with it the company's stock of plays and properties. To meet the £1000 cost of rebuilding, Alleyn formed a partnership of twelve sharers, each paying an initial amount of £83 6\"s\". 8\"d\". By then aged and busy with Dulwich College, he took only one share for himself, and leased the property to the company's sharers for £128 per year. (The shareholders paid Alleyn £10 13\"s\". 10\"d\". each annually, and in return split the profits of the theatre, and the expenses of running it, twelve ways.) The theatre re-opened in March 1623. When Alleyn died in 1626, the College assumed control of the lease; the actor Richard Gunnell became its manager. Yet this change does not appear to have changed operations at the theatre. The new theatre appears to have been made of brick, with a lead and tile roof as fire-proofing measure. It also seems to have been round, abandoning its unconventional square shape.\n\nThe reputation of the theatre did not improve after its reconstruction. In 1626, it was the scene of a riot involving sailors, in the course of which a constable was assaulted. In 1628, a protégé of Buckingham was assaulted by a mob after leaving a performance there.\n\nIn 1631, Palsgrave's Men moved to the playhouse at Salisbury Court; they were replaced at the Fortune by the actors of the King's Revels. The only play definitely associated with this period is a comedy, now lost, by William Heminges, son of John Heminges. In 1635, a company that had been at the Red Bull Theatre occupied the theatre, only to meet a notable run of bad fortune: plague closed the theatres for more than a year, from May 1636 to October 1637. Since they had no income from the theatre, the twelve shareholders in the theatre fell seriously arrears in their payments to Dulwich College, by more than £165.\n\nIn 1639, the actors were fined £1000 for depicting a religious ceremony on stage – this depiction was taken as anti-Catholic, but in the late 1630s, almost any reference to religion was risky. This group returned to the Red Bull at Easter 1640, and the remnants of Palsgrave's company, now under the patronage of the young Prince Charles and therefore called Prince Charles's Men, returned to the Fortune.\n\nWhen Parliament ordered all theatres closed in 1642, the Fortune entered a slow but irreversible decline. The actors at least occasionally violated the order, for they were raided and their property seized during a performance almost a year after the closure; between the expiration of the original order and the enactment of new, more stringent orders in 1649, the players returned to the theatre. In 1649, soldiers pulled down the stage and the gallery seats. By the Restoration, it had partially collapsed, and the masters of Dulwich sold what remained as scrap.\n\nThe 1599 contract for building the Fortune Theatre was found in the papers of theatrical manager Philip Henslowe at Dulwich College. The contract gives some overall dimensions of the Fortune but there are no plans or elevations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34606959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34606959", "title": "George Hamilton-Browne", "text": "George Hamilton-Browne\n\nGeorge Hamilton-Browne (22 Dec 1844 – Dec 1916) was a British irregular soldier, adventurer, writer and impostor. He was born in Chelmsford 22 Dec 1844. He was the son of George Browne (Capt 44th Regiment) and Susanna Mary Hilton, who were married in Manchester 7 March 1844. He was twice married and died in Jamaica in Feb 1916.\nHe was present at the Battle of Isandlwana in The Zulu War of 1879. He wrote three books about his experiences, some details of which have been shown to be of dubious authenticity. \n"}
{"id": "44544940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44544940", "title": "Golpo Chalao Film Banao", "text": "Golpo Chalao Film Banao\n\nGolpo Chalao Film Banao () was a short film competition organized by Stop Not Bangladesh. The first announcement of this competition was published on 14 September at Spectra Convention Center, Gulshan, [Dhaka]. Any university student can participate in this competition. At first organizing authority will tell students the few hints about the film story and university student will finish that short film which will be published on various dailies, televisions and social media to collect public opinion. After three months the jury board will announce the winner based on SMS votes, social media popularity, and the jury's score. 10 university participate in this competition and 10 short film has been selected for the final competition. Gray advertising and Karkhana Production helped in this competition.\n"}
{"id": "31340997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31340997", "title": "Ground ceremony", "text": "Ground ceremony\n\nThe 'Ground Ceremony' is a ritual used in some airforces, for example the US Airforce, signifying the handing off of the aircraft by the chief ground mechanic to the pilot, where the pilot is assured his aircraft is ready and safe for flight. The main goal of the customary 'ceremony' is to reinforce teamwork and -spirit between pilot and maintenance crew.\n\nThe ritual (in its US version) includes the following four steps (quoting Bolman and Deal 2003):\n\n"}
{"id": "45194773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45194773", "title": "Indianapolis Jewish Film Festival", "text": "Indianapolis Jewish Film Festival\n\nThe Indianapolis Jewish Film Festival is a film festival founded by Robert Epstein.\nThe inaugural festival was held from May 3 to May 10, 2014. The second festival was held from April 23 to May 3, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "16025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025", "title": "January 20", "text": "January 20\n\nIn the ancient astronomy, it is the cusp day between Capricorn and Aquarius.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53884536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53884536", "title": "List of air shows in Japan", "text": "List of air shows in Japan\n\nThis is a list of air shows in Japan. Air shows in Japan are mostly those held at Japan Self-Defense Force and US military bases across the country. Air shows are sometimes known as festivals in Japan.\n\nThe Japan Air Self-Defense Force, (JASDF) Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (JGSDF) and Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force (MSDF) all have air shows at their bases. Air shows or open days are also held at a number of US military bases in Japan. At JASDF base air shows it is common for the Blue Impulse aerobatic team to perform. \n\nThe US Air Force, US Marine Corps, and US Navy also have events at their bases. Visitors who are not from the US or Japan may be turned away from a US base for security reasons. Prospective attendees of events at US bases who are neither Japanese or American should bring identification and also consult the Third Country National list to see if they require special approval to enter the base.\n\nIndividual event dates can vary or be cancelled during different years. The months given below are the 2016 months. For current dates see here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21608496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21608496", "title": "Live at the Pan-African Festival", "text": "Live at the Pan-African Festival\n\nLive at the Pan-African Festival is a live recording of Archie Shepp's performance in Algiers on July 29–30, 1969, when his free jazz group was complemented by several North-African musicians.\n\n\"All songs arranged by Shepp.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3204444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204444", "title": "Lucio Silla", "text": "Lucio Silla\n\nLucio Silla (), K. 135, is an Italian opera in three acts composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The libretto was written by Giovanni de Gamerra, revised by Pietro Metastasio.\n\nIt was first performed on 26 December 1772 at the Teatro Regio Ducal in Milan and was regarded as \"a moderate success\".\n\nHandel's opera \"Silla\" (1713) covered the same subject. Other operas with the same title were also composed by Pasquale Anfossi (1774), and Johann Christian Bach (1776).\n\n\"Lucio Silla\" premiered on 26 December 1772 in Milan at the Teatro Regio Ducal. Its UK premiere was produced by Camden Town Hall in London in 1967. Its US premiere followed in 1968 with a performance in Baltimore.\n\nAmong other performances, \"Lucio Silla\" was given by the Santa Fe Opera in 2005 and in Warsaw in 2011 and by The Classical Opera Company in London in 2012. In 2013 the Gran Teatre del Liceu produced the opera in Barcelona and it was performed at both the Mozartwoche Salzburg and Salzburg Festival \"Lucio Silla\" was staged at Madrid's Teatro Real in 2017 as part of the program for its bicentennial celebration. In November 2017, La Monnaie in Belgium produced and performed the opera in a contemporary setting.\n\nThe story concerns the Roman dictator Lucio Silla (Lucius Sulla) who lusts after Giunia, the daughter of his enemy Gaius Marius. Giunia, on the other hand, loves the exiled senator Cecilio.\n\n\"Scene 1: A secluded spot on the banks of the Tiber\"'\n\nThe exiled Senator Cecilio meets his friend Cinna who tells him his betrothed Giunia mourns his death, a lie by the dictator Silla so that he can win her for himself. Cinna advises Cecilio to meet Giunia by the tomb of her father (murdered hero Gaius Marius). Cecilio is filled with joy at the idea and Cinna shares his joy and predicts the freedom of Rome (aria: \"Vieni ov' amor t' inita\").\n\n\"Scene 2\"\n\nCecilio excited at the prospect of meeting his betrothed sings of his love (aria: \"Il tenero momento\").\n\n\"Scene 3: Giunia's apartments\"\n\nSilla seeks the advice of his sister Celia on his approach with Giunia and she advises subtlety and kindness (aria: \"Se lusinghiera speme\").\n\n\"Scene 4\"\n\nOn Silla's approach, Giunia declares her love for Cecilio and her hate for Silla, her father's enemy (aria: \"Dalla sponda tenebrosa\").\n\n\"Scene 5\"\n\nAlone, Silla, insulted, decides to behave as a tyrant (aria: \"Il desìo di vendetta, e di morte\").\n\n\"Scene 6\"\n\nCecilio waits by the tomb for Giunia.\n\n\"Scene 7\"\n\nGiunia arrives (chorus and ariosa: \"Fuor di queste urne dolente\").\n\n\"An archway decorated with military trophies\"\n\nSilla is joined by Celia to whom he tells of his plans to wed Giunia and for Celia to wed her beloved Cinna on this day.\n\n\"Scene 3\"\n\nCinna restrains Cecilio who has his sword drawn trying to follow Silla, believing he has been instructed by the spirit of Gaius Marius to seek revenge. Cinna tells him to consider Giunia and his rage is controlled (aria: \"Quest' improvviso trèmito\").\n\n\"Scene 4\"[??]\n\nGiunia consults with Cinna who suggests she accept Silla's proposal and then murder him in their wedding bed. Giunia refuses, stating that vengeance is for Heaven alone to consider. She asks Cinna to make sure that Cecilio stays hidden from danger (aria: \"Ah se il crudel periglio\").\n\n\"Scene 5\"\n\nCinna resolves to kill Silla himself (aria: \"Nel fortunato istante\").\n\n\"Scene 6, Hanging gardens\"\n\nSilla's love for Giunia starts to bring out his compassion.\n\n\"Scene 7\"\n\nGiunia's hateful face angers him again and he threatens her with death but not to die alone (aria: \"D' ogni pieta mi spoglio\").\n\n\"Scene 8\"\n\nWith Cecilio, Giunia worries about Silla's words and they part.\n\n\"Scene 9\"\n\nCelia asks Giunia to accept Silla's proposal for the sake of happiness saying she is also to be married to Cinna (aria: \"Quando sugl' arsi campi\").\n\n\"Scene 10\"\n\nGiunia ponders her wretchedness.\n\n\"Scene 11, the Capitol\"\n\nSilla asks the Senate and the people of Rome to reward him as a hero of Rome with the marriage to Giunia.\n\n\"Scene 12\"\n\nWhen Cecilio appears, there is confrontation (trio: \"Quell' orgoglioso sdegno\").\n\n\"Scene 1: Entrance to the dungeons\"\n\nCecilio has been imprisoned. Cinna and Celia has gained access and Cinna asks Celia to convince Cecilio to repent and forget his love. Cinna promises to marry Celia if she is successful, for which she is hopeful (aria: \"Strider sento la procella\").\n\n\"Scene 2\"\n\nWhilst Cecilio accepts his fate Cinna tells him not to worry, Silla's heart over his head will bring about his own downfall (aria: \"De' più superbi il core\").\n\n\"Scene 3\"\n\nSilla has allowed Giunia one last visit to Cecilio and they say their farewells (aria: \"Pupille amate\").\n\n\"Scene 4\"\n\nGiunia alone with her thoughts of Cecilio's impending death thinks of her own (aria: \"Frà I pensier più funesti di morte\").\n\n\"Scene 5: The audience chamber\"\n\nBefore the Senators and the people of Rome, to everybody's surprise, Silla declares that he wishes Cecilio to live and marry Giunia. When questioned on his silence, Cinna declares his hatred of Silla and his intention of killing him. Silla issues his \"punishment\" to Cinna that he should marry his beloved Celia. He further declares that he will step down as dictator and restore liberty to Rome. He explains that he has seen proof that innocence and a virtuous heart is triumphant over power and glory. The people of Rome celebrate liberty and the greatness of Silla.\n\nAct 1\nAct 2\nAct 3\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "6531057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6531057", "title": "Macmillan 4x4 UK Challenge", "text": "Macmillan 4x4 UK Challenge\n\nThe Macmillan 4x4 UK Challenge is an annual navigational endurance challenge event. It is open to any road legal 4x4 vehicle in aid of Macmillan Cancer Support. The event has been run since 2002 over one weekend in March each year and consists of a series of on road treasure hunts interspersed with off-road challenges. The event covers up to 1,000 miles and raises up to in excess of £100,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support each year.\n\nNo special vehicle modifications are required to enter, any sensibly equipped 4x4 should be able to complete the event. Each team has a minimum sponsorship to raise all of which goes to Macmillan. All event costs are covered out of the entry fee except fuel which competitors pay for as they go.\n\nCompetitors only know where they are starting from, the route being kept secret till roadbooks are handed out along the way. It generally ends in Cheshire where there is a prize-giving dinner and accommodation for the night at a hotel.\n\nIn May 2000 a group of enthusiasts saw a gap in the 4x4 events programme and decided to introduce a new event to mark the Millennium. The objective being to provide an interesting 'Challenge' for 4x4 owners/addicts/enthusiasts over a weekend ‘somewhere’ in the UK, whilst supporting a worthy charity.\n\n\"The Macmillan 4x4 UK Challenge\" was 'born'. After two false starts, in November 2000 because of a petrol blockade and March 2001 due to Foot and Mouth. The inaugural run of the event eventually took place with only 8 teams in March 2002 and £8,000 was raised for Macmillan Cancer Relief.\n\nIn 2007 60 teams started (The maximum number that the organisers felt the event could maintain), and raised £110,000\n\nThe 2008 event covered approximately 800 miles and covered 5 countries - England, Wales, Southern and Northern Ireland and Scotland, the final total raised was £109,000\n\nThe event has been supported by a number of celebrities including Charlie Dimmock, Lynn Bowles, Sunita Shroff, Julia Bradbury, Charlie Webster, Jaye Griffiths and Marisa Wayne the daughter of John Wayne.\n\nThe applications for 2009 opened on the evening of 15 April 2008 and all 60 places had been taken by the post delivered on Saturday 19 April. Publicity for the event received a boost in August 2008 when TV presenter Julia Bradbury agreed to be the celebrity driver for the March 2009 run. The event started on 6 March and raised £80,000 at the prize giving dinner on 8 March. With a final total of £106,115.30 in July 2009\n\nThe entry form for the 2010 event went on line on the Macmillan 4x4 UK Challenge web site on 1 April 2009, all entries were taken up within two days, at which point a reserve list was opened. A month later due to the extra demand entries were extended to 90 teams. One week before the event it was announced that TV sports presenter, Charlie Webster would be the celebrity competitor for the year. Due to the cost of fuel, the event format was lower mileage than previously, with the majority of challenges being set in the Aberystwyth area. \n\nIn May 2010 it was announced that the year's event had raised a record £123,000\n\nAt the end of March 2010 it was announced that Marisa Wayne, youngest daughter of the Hollywood actor John Wayne would be competing as the co-driver in 'Team Duke' for the 2011 10th anniversary run of the event which also marked the 100th anniversary of Macmillan Cancer Support.\n\nThe event was extended to four days to mark the anniversary, with the longest mileage since the inaugural 2002 run. After the organising team discovered that the 2011 celebrity co-driver, Marisa Wayne had never been to Ireland and that her favourite movie was her father’s The Quiet Man the event was engineered to give her and all the other competitors the opportunity to visit Cong in Ireland the village where it was filmed, and see the scenery of County Galway and County Mayo. Immediately after the event a running total of £89,000 raised for Macmillan was declared, with a final total announced in August 2011 of £120,059.\n\nIn April 2011 entries opened for the 2012 event from March 2 to 4. For the first time in a number of years the event was under subscribed with 63 teams taking part. The event took a similar format to the 2010 run with the majority of challenges being in the forests surrounding Newcastleton in the Scottish borders. At the prize giving dinner a running total of £63,000 raised for Macmillan Cancer Support was announced. A final total of £81,949.59 was announced later that year bringing the event's running total to £860,085\n\nIn April 2012 entries opened for the 2013 event from March 1 to 3. In January 2013 it was announced that TV and stage actress Jaye Griffiths would be competing. \n\n"}
{"id": "6346748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6346748", "title": "Manhattan Project (song)", "text": "Manhattan Project (song)\n\n\"Manhattan Project\" is a 1985 song by Canadian progressive rock band Rush, named for the WWII project that created the first atomic bomb. The song appeared on Rush's eleventh studio album \"Power Windows\" in 1985. \"Manhattan Project\" is the third track on the album and clocks in at 5:07. It was released as a single (also in 1985) and reached #10 on the U.S. Mainstream Rock Chart.\n\nLyricist Neil Peart read \"a pile of books\" about the Manhattan Project before writing the lyrics so that he had a proper understanding of what the project was really about. The song consists of four verses, addressing the following:\n\n1) A time, during the era of World War II,<br>\n2) A man, representing J. Robert Oppenheimer and other scientists around the world who were engaged in nuclear weapons research,<br>\n3) A place, the Los Alamos facility in New Mexico at which American scientists carried out their work,<br>\n4) A man, Paul Tibbets, pilot of the bomber \"Enola Gay\" that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. \n\nThe chorus refers to the explosion as \"the big bang\", in allusion to the start of a new universe following the singular event, although the absolute reference is the use of Fat Man and Little Boy, America's two nuclear bombs to bring an end to the Pacific conflict with Japan (\"shot down the rising sun\"), which only happened after both were dropped, repeating the theme of the verses marking when and/or where \"it all began.\" The remaining lines refer to the start of the Atomic Age and the reactions of different segments of the global population (\"the big shots,\" \"the fools,\" \"the hopeful,\" \"the hopeless\").\n\nRush performed the song live on their Power Windows Tour, Hold Your Fire Tour, and Presto Tour before it was dropped. It was brought back live over twenty years later on the Clockwork Angels Tour where the band played it with a string ensemble.\n\nLive performances of the song are included on the \"A Show of Hands\" concert film, the live album of the same name, and on the \"Clockwork Angels Tour\" live album and concert film. An additional live performance (recorded during the Presto Tour) is included in the bonus material on the home media release of \"Time Stand Still\", a 2016 documentary about the band's R40 Live Tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "4141703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4141703", "title": "Market abuse", "text": "Market abuse\n\nMarket abuse may arise in circumstances where financial market investors have been unreasonably disadvantaged, directly or indirectly, by others who:\n\nMarket Abuse is split into two different aspects (under EU definitions):\n\nIn 2013/2014, the EU updated its legislation on market abuse, and harmonised criminal sanctions. In the Danish European Union opt-out referendum, 2015, the Danish population rejected adoption of the 2014 market abuse directive (2014/57/EU) and much other legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "954550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954550", "title": "Mining accident", "text": "Mining accident\n\nA mining accident is an accident that occurs during the process of mining minerals. Thousands of miners die from mining accidents each year, especially from underground coal mining, although hard rock mining is not immune from accidents. Coal mining is considered much more hazardous than hard rock mining due to flat-lying rock strata, generally incompetent rock, the presence of methane gas, and coal dust. Most of the deaths these days occur in developing countries, and rural parts of developed countries.\n\nMining accidents can have a variety of causes, including leaks of poisonous gases such as hydrogen sulfide or explosive natural gases, especially firedamp or methane, dust explosions, collapsing of mine stopes, mining-induced seismicity, flooding, or general mechanical errors from improperly used or malfunctioning mining equipment (such as safety lamps or electrical equipment). Use of improper explosives underground can also cause methane and coal dust explosions.\n\nOn April 26, 1942, in the Benxihu (Honkeiko) Colliery (coal mine), what is believed to have been the world's worst mining disaster took place, killing 1,549 miners. The disaster occurred in an area that is now within the bounds of modern-day China, but was then in a portion of China occupied by the Japanese, just north of present-day Korea. The Japanese administrators of the mine had the actual mining work performed by forced Chinese labour under harsh conditions. The disaster first began with a mine fire, but at the time, a hasty decision was made by the Japanese mine operators to promptly cut off the ventilation and to completely seal off the mine to kill the fire. This reportedly left many unevacuated workers still alive within the sealed-off area of the mine to eventually also suffocate. Once the fire was put out in this manner and the mine re-opened, it took 10 days to remove all of the bodies. Of those killed, 1,518 were Chinese, and 31 were Japanese. Afterwards, several bodies were buried in a mass grave. According to a follow-up investigation carried out by the Soviet Union, the majority of the fatalities were not caused by the initial fire, but instead were the result of secondary carbon monoxide poisoning and suffocation.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable mining accidents and disasters:\n\n\n\n\nJuly 19, 1985: Val di Stava dam collapse took place in the village of Stava, near Tesero, Italy, when two tailings dams used for sedimenting the mud from the nearby Prestavel mine, failed. It resulted in one of Italy's worst disasters, killing 268 people,x destroying 63 buildings and demolishing eight bridges.\n\n\nA total of 8447 deaths are listed above.\n\nThe Bulli Mine Disaster of 23 March 1887 involved a gas explosion in the mine that killed 81 men and boys, leaving 50 women widows and 150 children without fathers.\n\nThe Mount Kembla Mine Disaster of 31 July 1902 was an explosion resulting in the death of 96 miners, including two engaged in rescue work. It remains the worst mining disaster in Australian history.\n\nA coal dust explosion at the Mount Mulligan mine on 19 September 1921 killed 75 or 76 workers.\n\nTasmania's Beaconsfield Mine collapse occurred on 25 April 2006. Of the 17 people who were in the mine at the time, 14 escaped immediately following the collapse, one was killed and the remaining two were found alive after five days. The survivors were trapped in a 1.5m x 1.2m cherry picker cage, which had saved them from being crushed by rocks. As it was not safe for rescuers to blast their way through, a special borer was brought in to drill an escape shaft. They were finally released on 9 May after 14 days underground.\n\nThree mining disasters occurred at Moura in a 20-year period. The first of these was in 1975, at the Kianga Mine, where 13 men died in an underground explosion. The mine was sealed without their bodies being retrieved. In 1986 a second disaster occurred, as an underground explosion, which took the lives of 12 miners. The bodies of all those persons were retrieved. In Moura on 7 August 1994 a third major mining accident occurred with an explosion at Moura No. 2 Mine. A second explosion at the mine approximately a day and a half later saw rescue attempts abandoned, and the mine was sealed, with the bodies of the 11 miners unretrieved.\n\nIn the 1996 Gretley coal mine disaster, near Newcastle, four men were killed when their mining machine broke into the flooded workings of an old coalmine, abandoned over 80 years earlier.\n\nFour miners were killed in a windblast incident at the Northparkes mine outside the New South Wales town of Parkes in 1999.\n\nOn March 4, 1887, 120 miners died in a coal mine in La Boule, Borinage due to a methane explosion.\n\nOn the morning of August 8, 1956, a fire in the mine \"Bois du Cazier\" in Marcinelle caused 262 victims, with only 12 survivors. A mining cart on an elevator cage hit an oil pipe and electricity lines, with the resulting fire trapping the miners. Most of the victims were immigrants (136 Italians, 8 Poles, 6 Greeks, 5 Germans, 5 Frenchmen, 3 Hungarians, 1 Englishman, 1 Dutchman, 1 Russian and 1 Ukrainian.)\n\nOn September 4, 2014, after a 3.5 Richter earthquake hit Zenica caused rock burst in coal mine \"Raspotočje\", 34 miners remained trapped inside the mine. It was later reported that 5 miners were killed in the accident.\n\nThe most well-known mining accidents in Canada have all occurred within the province of Nova Scotia. The most serious of them was a series of three coal mining disasters spanning 65 years referred to collectively as the Springhill mining disasters, which claimed in total at least 138 lives of men and boys due to coal dust explosions. The Westray Mine disaster in 1992 claimed the lives of 26 miners in a methane/coal dust explosion at a recently opened mining operation. Both of these mines were subsequently permanently closed in the wake of these events.\n\nThe 1887 Nanaimo mine explosion in Nanaimo, British Columbia killed 150 miners at the No 1 Esplanade Mine. Explosives were laid improperly triggering a massive mine-wide explosion. Most miners were killed instantly, only 7 survived. Of the 150 workers killed, 53 of them were Chinese, the names of which are mostly unknown.\n\nThe Hillcrest mine disaster, the worst coal mining disaster of Canadian history, occurred in Alberta in 1914. Deaths from the methane and coal dust-fueled explosion numbered 189; news coverage was eclipsed by the First World War. The mine remained in use until 1939.\n\nIn June 2013, heavy rains provoked the collapse of a gold mine in Ndassima, killing 37 miners and injuring many others.\n\nIn June 1945, during a fire, 355 workers died in El Teniente by inhaling carbon monoxide, in what was called the \"Tragedia del Humo\" ().\n\nIn January 2006, an explosion occurred in a mine in Copiapó, leaving 70 miners trapped underground. The miners were rescued after a brief period of time, but two people died.\n\nIn August 2010, 33 miners were trapped underground in Copiapó. After two weeks communication was made with them but it was said at least four more months would pass before they could be rescued, though essential services could still be provided. The rescues began on October 12, 2010 and all the 33 miners were rescued within 22 hours of first rescue. The world watched and cheered.\n\nAccording to one source, in 2003 China accounted for the largest number of coal-mining fatalities, accounting for about 80% of the world's total, although it produced only 35% of the world's coal. Between January 2001 and October 2004, there were 188 accidents that had a death toll of more than 10, about one such accident every 7.4 days. After the 2005 Sunjiawan mine disaster, which killed at least 210 miners, a meeting of the State Council was convened to work on measures to improve work safety in coal mines. The meeting's statement indicated serious problems such as violation of safety standards and overproduction in some coal mines. Three billion yuan (360 million US dollars) were dedicated for technological renovation on work safety, gas management in particular, at state-owned major coal mines. The government also promised to send safety supervision teams to 45 coal mines with serious gas problems and invite colliery safety experts to evaluate safety situations in coal mines and formulate prevention measures.\n\nIn 2006, according to the State Work Safety Supervision Administration, 4,749 Chinese coal miners were killed in thousands of blasts, floods, and other accidents. For example, a gas explosion at the Nanshan Colliery killed 24 people on November 13, 2006; the mine was operating without any safety license and the Xinhua News Agency claimed the cause was incorrect usage of explosives. However, the 2006 rate was 20.1% less than 2005 despite an 8.1% increase in production.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported that China's lack of a free press, independent trade unions, citizen watchdog groups and other checks of official power has made cover-ups of mining accidents more possible, even in the Internet age. As a result, Chinese bureaucrats habitually hide scandals (such as mine disasters, chemical spills, the 2003 SARS epidemic, and tainted milk powder) for fear of being held accountable by the ruling Communist Party or exposing their own illicit deals with companies involved. Under China's authoritarian system, superiors reward subordinates for strict compliance with goals established by authorities, like reducing mine disasters. Indeed, should a mining accident occur, the incentive to hide it is often stronger than the reward for managing it well, as any disaster is almost surely considered a liability.\n\nIn November 2009, a mining accident in Heilongjiang killed at least 104 people. It is thought to have been caused by a methane explosion followed by a coal dust explosion. Three top officials involved with the mining company were promptly dismissed.\n\nOn August 30, 2012 an explosion killed 45 people at the Xiaojiawan coal mine in Sichuan province. A few days later on September 3, 2012 14 miners were killed at Gaokeng Coal Mine in Jiangxi province.\n\nOn March 29, 2013, a landslide trapped 83 people in the Gyama Mine in Tibet.\n\nOn 4 January 2014 The Chinese Government stated that 1,049 people died in the year 2013, down 24 percent from 2012.\n\nAbout 300 people were killed on May 9, 1993 in the Nambija mine disaster in Ecuador.\n\nOn October 15, 2010, shortly after Chile completed its historic, successful rescue of 33 miners who had been stuck underground in the San Jose mine for a record period of nearly 10 weeks, four workers were trapped in an Ecuadoran gold mine following a tunnel collapse. All were confirmed dead by October 20.\n\nThe Courrières mine disaster was the worst ever pit mine disaster in Europe. It caused the death of 1,099 miners (including many children) in Northern France on 10 March 1906. It seems that this disaster was surpassed only by the Benxihu Colliery accident in China on April 26, 1942, which killed 1,549 miners. A dust explosion, the cause of which is not known with certainty, devastated a coal mine operated by the Compagnie des mines de houille de Courrières (founded in 1852) between the villages of Méricourt (404 killed), Sallaumines (304 killed), Billy-Montigny (114 killed), and Noyelles-sous-Lens (102 killed) about two kilometres (one mile) to the east of Lens, in the Pas-de-Calais département (about 220 km, or 140 miles, north of Paris).\n\nA large explosion was heard shortly after 06:30 on the morning of Saturday 10 March 1906. An elevator cage at Shaft 3 was thrown to the surface, damaging pit-head workings; windows and roofs were blown out on the surface at Shaft 4; an elevator cage raised at Shaft 2 contained only dead and unconscious miners.\n\n\nMine disaster of a number occurs from the 1900s to 1980s in Japan, with introduce only large-scale disaster. \n\nThe twelve mines in the Netherlands, four of which were state owned, were considered among the safest in the world, with only three larger accidents occurring during 70 years of mining:\n\n-On 13 July 1928 a methane gas explosion killed 13 miners in the state-owned mine Hendrik in Brunssum.\n\n-On 24 March 1947 13 miners from Staatsmijn Hendrik were killed in a fire caused by an overheated conveyor belt.\n\n-On 3 March 1958 7 miners lost their lives when a cave-in occurred at Staatsmijn Maurits in Geleen.\n\nThe most notable mining accident in New Zealand is the 1896 Brunner Mine disaster, which killed all 65 miners inside. On 19 November 2010, there were four explosions over nine days at Pike River mine; 29 miners were killed and two escaped with minor injuries.\n\nOn 19 January 1967, there was an explosion in the Strongman Mine, near Greymouth, on the West Coast. 19 people were killed.\n\nOn November 25, 2006, the worst mining disaster occurred in modern Polish history, 23 miners lost their lives at Halemba Coal Mine, a colliery in the town of Ruda Slaska in the southern industrial province of Silesia. A methane explosion at a depth of 1,030 meters caused the November 21 tragedy. The miners were attempting to retrieve €17 million ($US22 million) worth of equipment from a tunnel when a blast caused the shaft to collapse. The tunnel was supposed to have been closed in March due to dangerously high methane concentrations, but was kept active because of the value of the equipment left behind.\n\nSeveral major mining accidents have happened in Russia, particularly the Ulyanovskaya Mine disaster of 2007, which killed at least 106 miners. On January 20, 2013, at least four miners have died and four more are missing following an accident at a Russian coal mine. The accident happened at a coal mine in the Kuznetsk Basin region of Russia, in western Siberia.\n\nA number of major mining accidents happened in South Africa including the following accidents:\n\nThe three worst mining accidents in Taiwan all happened in 1984:\n\nAt least 56 miners were killed in April 1998 after heavy rains flooded tanzanite mine shafts. Five people were killed in July 2013 after the tanzanite quarry they were working in the Mererani mining hills collapsed above their heads. A sixth was admitted to hospital in critical condition.\n\nIn March 1983, in the Armutçuk coal mine 103 miners died due to a methane gas explosion.\n\nIn March 1992 at the TCC Kozla mine, 263 miners were killed due to a firedamp explosion\n\nIn 2008 there was another disaster which resulted in one person losing their life. In November 2013, 300 workers barricaded the Zonguldak mine in order to protest the working conditions.\n\nDuring the year of 2009, in December killed 19 miners due to a methane gas explosion in Bursa Province.\n\nIn 2010, there was a mining disaster in Zonguldak Province which resulted in the deaths of 30 workers in a coal mine. The explosion was caused by a firedamp explosion. Previous mining disasters have also occurred here, one in 1992 resulted in the deaths of 270 workers. This was the worst mining disaster until the Soma mine disaster.\n\nIn May 2014, in Soma, Manisa there was a major mine collapse caused by an explosion. More than 302 workers lost their lives in the collapse and at least 80 workers were injured.\n\nUnfortunately, in recent years the Turkish coal mining industry has been found to have the very worst safety record in the world, in terms of fatal accidents per million tons of coal produced. When using the \"deaths per million tons of coal production\" measure, on any given day, a Turkish coal miner is 360 times more likely to be killed in a Turkish mine than an American coal miner is in an American mine, and 5 times more likely to die from the lax mine safety standards of the Turkish mines than even a Chinese coal miner, whose country places with a distant second in terms of safety related deaths per million tons of coal produced.\n\nIn England, The Oaks explosion remains overall the worst mining accident, claiming 388 lives on 12–13 December 1866 near Barnsley in Yorkshire although in the first and main explosion on 340 died, less than at the Hulton colliery but subsequent explosions claimed other lives during the night and the following day.\nThe Hulton Colliery explosion at Westhoughton, Lancashire, in 1910 claimed the lives of 344 miners.\nAn explosion in 1878, at the Wood Pit, Haydock, Lancashire, killed over 200 workers, although only 189 were included in the 'official list'. Another disaster that killed many miners was the Hartley Colliery Disaster, which occurred in January 1862 when the beam of the pumping engine broke suddenly and fell into the single shaft serving the pit. It blocked the shaft, and entombed hundreds of miners. The final death toll was 204, most of whom were suffocated by the lack of oxygen in the mine atmosphere.\n\nIn the metalliferous mines of Cornwall, some of the worst accidents were at East Wheal Rose in 1846, where 39 workers were killed by a sudden flood; at Levant mine in 1919, where 31 were killed and many injured in a failure of the man engine; 12 killed at Wheal Agar in 1883 when a cage fell down a shaft; and seven killed at Dolcoath mine in 1893 when a large stull collapsed.\n\nThe worst mining accident in Scotland is the 1877 Blantyre mining disaster in Blantyre, Lanarkshire, which claimed 207 lives. Other fatal incidents occurred in the town in 1878 and 1879.\n\nAnother serious incident occurred in the small Ayrshire mining village of Knockshinnoch in September 1950. For several tense days rescuers battled bravely against all odds to reach the 129 men trapped deep underground when a field above where they were working caved-in, flooding the mine workings with thick liquid peat, cutting off all means of escape. 116 were rescued but 13 died. A film, \"The Brave Don't Cry\" was made about the distaster in 1952.\n\nDuring the period 1850 to 1930 the South Wales coalfield had the worst disaster record. This was due to the increasing number of mines being sunk to greater depths into gas-containing strata, combined with poor safety and management practices. As a result, there were nearly forty underground explosions in the Glamorgan and Monmouthshire areas of the coalfield during this time. Each accident resulted in the deaths of twenty or more workers - either directly in the explosion or by suffocation by the poisonous gases formed. The total death toll from these disasters was 3,119 people. The four worst accidents in Wales were:\n\nSome collieries, e.g. Morfa Colliery, near Port Talbot, Glamorgan, and Black Vein Colliery, Risca, Monmouthshire, suffered three disasters before they were closed for being unsafe.\n\nThe Fraterville mine disaster occurred on May 19, 1902 killing 216 miners making it one of the worst in American history. Fraterville is located in western Anderson County, Tennessee.\n\nThe Monongah Mining Disaster was the worst mining accident of American history; 362 workers were killed in an underground explosion on December 6, 1907 in Monongah, West Virginia.\n\nThe First Dawson Disaster was a mining accident on October 22, 1913 in Dawson, New Mexico in which 263 men died (146 were Italian and 36 were Greek).\n\nThe Second Dawson Disasters was a mining accident on February 8, 1923 in Dawson, New Mexico in which 123 men died.\n\nThe Speculator Mine Disaster occurred in the copper mines of Butte, Montana on June 8, 1917. An electric cable being lowered into the mine was accidentally ignited at 2,500 meters below the surface. The fire quickly climbed the cable, in turn igniting the shaft. The shaft thus became a chimney, eliminating the mine's primary source of oxygen. Nearly all of the 168 fatalities were due to asphyxia. It remains the deadliest underground hard rock mining event in American history.\n\nThe Cherry Mine disaster was a fire in the Cherry, Illinois, coal mine in 1909, and surrounding events, in which 259 men and boys died.\n\nThe Millfield Mine Disaster 1930 in Ohio killed 82 men.\n\nFrom 1880 to 1910, mine accidents claimed thousands of fatalities. Where annual mining deaths had numbered more than 1,000 a year during the early part of the 20th century, they decreased to an average of about 500 during the late 1950s, and to 93 during the 1990s. In addition to deaths, many thousands more are injured (an average of 21,351 injuries per year between 1991 and 1999), but overall there has been a downward trend of deaths and injuries.\n\nIn 1959, the Knox Mine Disaster occurred in Port Griffith, Pennsylvania. The swelling Susquehanna River collapsed into a mine under it and resulted in 12 deaths. In Plymouth, Pennsylvania, the Avondale Mine Disaster of 1869 resulted in the deaths of 108 miners and two rescue workers after a fire in the only shaft eliminated the oxygen in the mine. Federal laws for mining safety resulted from this disaster. Pennsylvania suffered another disaster in 2002 at Quecreek, 9 miners were trapped underground and subsequently rescued after 78 hours. During 2006, 72 miners lost their lives at work, 47 by coal mining. The majority of these fatalities occurred in Kentucky and West Virginia, including the Sago Mine Disaster. On April 5, 2010, in the Upper Big Branch Mine disaster an underground explosion caused the deaths of 29 miners.\n\nThe U.S. Bureau of Mines was created in 1910 to investigate accidents, advise industry, conduct production and safety research, and teach courses in accident prevention, first aid, and mine rescue. The Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Acts of 1969 and 1977 set further safety standards for the mining. Since the closure of the U.S. Bureau of Mines in 1996, this research function has been carried on by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.\n\nThe Kamandama mine disaster - Hwange in June 1972 was one of the worst ever mining disasters with 426 fatalities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4019290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4019290", "title": "New York City Horror Film Festival", "text": "New York City Horror Film Festival\n\nThe New York City Horror Film Festival is an international film festival based in New York City that screens films from the horror genre. It was founded by Michael J. Hein in 2001. It takes place each year in New York City for a week in November.\n\nThe festival presents awards bestfeature film, shorts, cinematography, FX, actor and actress, screenplay, and audience choice. The festival also awards lifetime achievement awards recognizing the careers of horror filmmakers.\n\nSince 2002, the New York City Horror Film Festival has given the Lifetime Achievement Award to one legendary horror filmmaker each year. Recipients are as follows:\n\n\nFrank Henenlotter\nWilliam Lustig\nMichael Gingold\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141292", "title": "Nicoll Highway collapse", "text": "Nicoll Highway collapse\n\nThe Nicoll Highway collapse was a construction accident that occurred at approximately 3:30 p.m. Singapore Time (UTC+8:00) on 20 April 2004 in Kallang, Singapore when a tunnel being constructed for use by MRT trains collapsed. The tunnel was part of the construction of the underground Circle line, near Nicoll Highway station. The supporting structure for the deep excavation work failed, resulting in a deep cave-in that spread across six lanes of Nicoll Highway. The collapse killed four people and injured three. The accident delayed the construction end date for the MRT station.\n\nInvestigations and probes into the collapse commenced immediately. It eventually was found that the most apparent cause of the collapse was that the retaining wall could not handle the stress of holding up the tunnel, forcing it to give way. This occurred near the Nicoll Highway MRT station under construction along the Circle Line and near the Merdeka Bridge.\n\nThe accident left a collapse zone 150 m wide, 100 m long, and 30 m deep (). Four workers were killed, with three more injured. Steel beams were twisted, with two construction cranes being swallowed up. A substantial chunk of the main highway running over the tunnel was also knocked out.\n\nThe rescue efforts were called off on 23 April 2004 because of the low chance of survival by that point, as well as danger to the rescue teams. There was also the increasing need to stabilize the ground around the accident site to reduce the risk of further collapses. All six lanes of the Nicoll Highway were heavily damaged, rendering the road unusable. The highway re-opened on 4 December 2004 after reconstruction efforts.\n\nA committee of inquiry found main contractor Nishimatsu Construction Company () and its officers as well as Land Transport Authority officers responsible for the collapse. Several other officers and subcontractors were reprimanded and issued warnings in connection with the accident. As a result of the accident, Stages 1 and 2 of the Circle line were delayed. Stage 3 of the line, Bartley to Marymount stations opened first on 28 May 2009. The partially built station structure was abandoned, and the affected station has been shifted about away from the accident site. Eventually, Nicoll Highway station started operations on 17 April 2010.\n\nA Malaysian of Indian descent, his body was the first to be recovered. The 44-year-old had reportedly tried to escape by jumping out from his crane when the incident occurred. He was found caught between a pick-up truck and a container.\nThe body of the 36-year-old Chinese national from Jiangsu province was found wedged between the wheel and chassis of a truck. Liu had started working at the site just ten days before the incident. He left behind a wife and daughter.\nThe third victim to be found, Tan was due to finish his contract with LTA at the end of 2004 and had planned to migrate to Australia or New Zealand then. He leaves behind his wife, a grown-up daughter and a son.\nThe body of the 40-year-old Singaporean was never recovered. According to survivor accounts, Heng had selflessly hurried his workers to safety but himself was trapped when the collapse occurred. Heng left behind his wife, two young children, his 70-year-old mother and nine siblings.\n\nFour men faced criminal charges in the wake of the Nicoll Highway Collapse.\n\nThe first man put on trial was Ng Seng Yoong who was a project director of the Circle MRT line and also monitored the excavation and design work in his other capacity as the Qualified Person on the site. He faced one charge of breaching conditions under the Building Control Act. Arguments were made that readings of instruments on site have indicated that things were not going as planned, but the warnings were not acted upon. On 24 November 2005, Ng was fined $8,000 (SGD) by the court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39601333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39601333", "title": "PRISM (surveillance program)", "text": "PRISM (surveillance program)\n\nPRISM is a code name for a program under which the United States National Security Agency (NSA) collects internet communications from various U.S. internet companies. The program is also known by the SIGAD . PRISM collects stored internet communications based on demands made to internet companies such as Google Inc. under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 to turn over any data that match court-approved search terms. The NSA can use these PRISM requests to target communications that were encrypted when they traveled across the internet backbone, to focus on stored data that telecommunication filtering systems discarded earlier, and to get data that is easier to handle, among other things.\n\nPRISM began in 2007 in the wake of the passage of the Protect America Act under the Bush Administration. The program is operated under the supervision of the U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISA Court, or FISC) pursuant to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Its existence was leaked six years later by NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who warned that the extent of mass data collection was far greater than the public knew and included what he characterized as \"dangerous\" and \"criminal\" activities. The disclosures were published by \"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\" on June 6, 2013. Subsequent documents have demonstrated a financial arrangement between the NSA's Special Source Operations division (SSO) and PRISM partners in the millions of dollars.\n\nDocuments indicate that PRISM is \"the number one source of raw intelligence used for NSA analytic reports\", and it accounts for 91% of the NSA's internet traffic acquired under FISA section 702 authority.\" The leaked information came to light one day after the revelation that the FISA Court had been ordering a subsidiary of telecommunications company Verizon Communications to turn over to the NSA logs tracking all of its customers' telephone calls.\n\nU.S. government officials have disputed some aspects of the \"Guardian\" and \"Washington Post\" stories and have defended the program by asserting it cannot be used on domestic targets without a warrant, that it has helped to prevent acts of terrorism, and that it receives independent oversight from the federal government's executive, judicial and legislative branches. On June 19, 2013, U.S. President Barack Obama, during a visit to Germany, stated that the NSA's data gathering practices constitute \"a circumscribed, narrow system directed at us being able to protect our people.\"\n\nPRISM was publicly revealed when classified documents about the program were leaked to journalists of \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" by Edward Snowden at the time an NSA contractor during a visit to Hong Kong. The leaked documents included 41 PowerPoint slides, four of which were published in news articles.\n\nThe documents identified several technology companies as participants in the PRISM program, including Microsoft in 2007, Yahoo! in 2008, Google in 2009, Facebook in 2009, Paltalk in 2009, YouTube in 2010, AOL in 2011, Skype in 2011 and Apple in 2012. The speaker's notes in the briefing document reviewed by \"The Washington Post\" indicated that \"98 percent of PRISM production is based on Yahoo, Google, and Microsoft\".\n\nThe slide presentation stated that much of the world's electronic communications pass through the U.S., because electronic communications data tend to follow the least expensive route rather than the most physically direct route, and the bulk of the world's internet infrastructure is based in the United States. The presentation noted that these facts provide United States intelligence analysts with opportunities for intercepting the communications of foreign targets as their electronic data pass into or through the United States.\n\nSnowden's subsequent disclosures included statements that government agencies such as the United Kingdom's GCHQ also undertook mass interception and tracking of internet and communications data described by Germany as \"nightmarish\" if true allegations that the NSA engaged in \"dangerous\" and \"criminal\" activity by \"hacking\" civilian infrastructure networks in other countries such as \"universities, hospitals, and private businesses\", and alleged that compliance offered only very limited restrictive effect on mass data collection practices (including of Americans) since restrictions \"are policy-based, not technically based, and can change at any time\", adding that \"Additionally, audits are cursory, incomplete, and easily fooled by fake justifications\", with numerous self-granted exceptions, and that NSA policies encourage staff to assume the benefit of the doubt in cases of uncertainty.\n\nBelow are a number of slides released by Edward Snowden showing the operation and processes behind the PRISM program. It should be noted that the \"FAA\" referred to is Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act (\"FAA\"), and not the Federal Aviation Administration, which is more widely known by the same FAA initialism.\n\nThe French newspaper \"Le Monde\" disclosed new PRISM slides (See Page 4, 7 and 8) coming from the \"PRISM/US-984XN Overview\" presentation on October 21, 2013. The British newspaper \"The Guardian\" disclosed new PRISM slides (see pages 3 and 6) in November 2013 which on the one hand compares PRISM with the Upstream program, and on the other hand deals with collaboration between the NSA's Threat Operations Center and the FBI.\n\nWikimedia Commons keeps copies of the leaked PowerPoint slides here : along with other associated documents.\n\nPRISM is a program from the Special Source Operations (SSO) division of the NSA, which in the tradition of NSA's intelligence alliances, cooperates with as many as 100 trusted U.S. companies since the 1970s. A prior program, the Terrorist Surveillance Program, was implemented in the wake of the September 11 attacks under the George W. Bush Administration but was widely criticized and challenged as illegal, because it did not include warrants obtained from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. PRISM was authorized by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.\n\nPRISM was enabled under President Bush by the Protect America Act of 2007 and by the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which immunizes private companies from legal action when they cooperate with U.S. government agencies in intelligence collection. In 2012 the act was renewed by Congress under President Obama for an additional five years, through December 2017. According to \"The Register\", the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 \"specifically authorizes intelligence agencies to monitor the phone, email, and other communications of U.S. citizens for up to a week without obtaining a warrant\" when one of the parties is outside the U.S.\n\nThe most detailed description of the PRISM program can be found in a report about NSA's collection efforts under Section 702 FAA, that was released by the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) on July 2, 2014.\n\nAccording to this report, PRISM is only used to collect internet communications, not telephone conversations. These internet communications are not collected in bulk, but in a targeted way: only communications that are to or from specific selectors, like e-mail addresses, can be gathered. Under PRISM, there's no collection based upon keywords or names.\n\nThe actual collection process is done by the Data Intercept Technology Unit (DITU) of the FBI, which on behalf of the NSA sends the selectors to the US Internet service providers, which were previously served with a Section 702 Directive. Under this directive, the provider is legally obliged to hand over (to DITU) all communications to or from the selectors provided by the government. DITU then sends these communications to NSA, where they are stored in various databases, depending on their type.\n\nData, both content and metadata, that already have been collected under the PRISM program, may be searched for both US and non-US person identifiers. These kinds of queries became known as \"back-door searches\" and are conducted by NSA, FBI and CIA. Each of these agencies has slightly different protocols and safeguards to protect searches with a US person identifier.\n\nInternal NSA presentation slides included in the various media disclosures show that the NSA could unilaterally access data and perform \"extensive, in-depth surveillance on live communications and stored information\" with examples including email, video and voice chat, videos, photos, voice-over-IP chats (such as Skype), file transfers, and social networking details. Snowden summarized that \"in general, the reality is this: if an NSA, FBI, CIA, DIA, etc. analyst has access to query raw SIGINT [signals intelligence] databases, they can enter and get results for anything they want.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", the intelligence analysts search PRISM data using terms intended to identify suspicious communications of targets whom the analysts suspect with at least 51 percent confidence to not be U.S. citizens, but in the process, communication data of some U.S. citizens are also collected unintentionally. Training materials for analysts tell them that while they should periodically report such accidental collection of non-foreign U.S. data, \"it's nothing to worry about.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", NSA had access to chats and emails on Hotmail.com, Skype, because Microsoft had \"developed a surveillance capability to deal\" with the interception of chats, and \"for Prism collection against Microsoft email services will be unaffected because Prism collects this data prior to encryption.\"\n\nAlso according to The Guardian's Glenn Greenwald even low-level NSA analysts are allowed to search and listen to the communications of Americans and other people without court approval and supervision. Greenwald said low level Analysts can, via systems like PRISM, \"listen to whatever emails they want, whatever telephone calls, browsing histories, Microsoft Word documents. And it's all done with no need to go to a court, with no need to even get supervisor approval on the part of the analyst.\"\n\nHe added that the NSA databank, with its years of collected communications, allows analysts to search that database and listen \"to the calls or read the emails of everything that the NSA has stored, or look at the browsing histories or Google search terms that you've entered, and it also alerts them to any further activity that people connected to that email address or that IP address do in the future.\" Greenwald was referring in the context of the foregoing quotes to the NSA program X-Keyscore.\n\nShortly after publication of the reports by \"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\", the United States Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, on June 7, 2013 released a statement confirming that for nearly six years the government of the United States had been using large Internet services companies such as Facebook to collect information on foreigners outside the United States as a defense against national security threats. The statement read in part, \"\"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\" articles refer to collection of communications pursuant to Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. They contain numerous inaccuracies.\" He went on to say, \"Section 702 is a provision of FISA that is designed to facilitate the acquisition of foreign intelligence information concerning non-U.S. persons located outside the United States. It cannot be used to intentionally target any U.S. citizen, any other U.S. person, or anyone located within the United States.\" Clapper concluded his statement by stating, \"The unauthorized disclosure of information about this important and entirely legal program is reprehensible and risks important protections for the security of Americans.\" On March 12, 2013, Clapper had told the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the NSA does \"not wittingly\" collect any type of data on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans. Clapper later admitted the statement he made on March 12, 2013 was a lie, or in his words \"I responded in what I thought was the most truthful, or least untruthful manner by saying no.\"\n\nOn June 7, 2013 U.S. President Barack Obama, referring to the PRISM program and the NSA's telephone calls logging program, said, \"What you've got is two programs that were originally authorized by Congress, have been repeatedly authorized by Congress. Bipartisan majorities have approved them. Congress is continually briefed on how these are conducted. There are a whole range of safeguards involved. And federal judges are overseeing the entire program throughout.\" He also said, \"You can't have 100 percent security and then also have 100 percent privacy and zero inconvenience. You know, we're going to have to make some choices as a society.\" In separate statements, senior Obama administration officials (not mentioned by name in source) said that Congress had been briefed 13 times on the programs since 2009.\n\nOn June 8, 2013, Director of National Intelligence Clapper made an additional public statement about PRISM and released a fact sheet providing further information about the program, which he described as \"an internal government computer system used to facilitate the government's statutorily authorized collection of foreign intelligence information from electronic communication service providers under court supervision, as authorized by Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) (50 U.S.C. § 1881a).\" The fact sheet stated that \"the surveillance activities published in \"The Guardian\" and the \"Washington Post\" are lawful and conducted under authorities widely known and discussed, and fully debated and authorized by Congress.\" The fact sheet also stated that \"the United States Government does not unilaterally obtain information from the servers of U.S. electronic communication service providers. All such information is obtained with FISA Court approval and with the knowledge of the provider based upon a written directive from the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence.\" It said that the Attorney General provides FISA Court rulings and semi-annual reports about PRISM activities to Congress, \"provid[ing] an unprecedented degree of accountability and transparency.\" Democratic Senators Udall and Wyden, who serve on the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, subsequently criticized the fact sheet as being inaccurate. NSA Director General Keith Alexander acknowledged the errors, stating that the fact sheet \"could have more precisely described\" the requirements governing the collection of e-mail and other internet content from U.S. companies. The fact sheet was withdrawn from the NSA's website around June 26.\n\nIn a closed-doors Senate hearing around June 11, FBI Director Robert Mueller said that Snowden's leaks had caused \"significant harm to our nation and to our safety.\" In the same Senate NSA Director Alexander defended the program. Alexander's defense was immediately criticized by Senators Udall and Wyden, who said they saw no evidence that the NSA programs had produced \"uniquely valuable intelligence.\" In a joint statement, they wrote, \"Gen Alexander's testimony yesterday suggested that the NSA's bulk phone records collection program helped thwart 'dozens' of terrorist attacks, but all of the plots that he mentioned appear to have been identified using other collection methods.\"\n\nOn June 18, NSA Director Alexander said in an open hearing before the House Intelligence Committee of Congress that communications surveillance had helped prevent more than 50 potential terrorist attacks worldwide (at least 10 of them involving terrorism suspects or targets in the United States) between 2001 and 2013, and that the PRISM web traffic surveillance program contributed in over 90 percent of those cases. According to court records, one example Alexander gave regarding a thwarted attack by al Qaeda on the New York Stock Exchange was not in fact foiled by surveillance. Several senators wrote Director of National Intelligence Clapper asking him to provide other examples.\n\nU.S. intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, told various news outlets that by June 24 they were already seeing what they said was evidence that suspected terrorists had begun changing their communication practices in order to evade detection by the surveillance tools disclosed by Snowden.\n\nIn contrast to their swift and forceful reactions the previous day to allegations that the government had been conducting surveillance of United States citizens' telephone records, Congressional leaders initially had little to say about the PRISM program the day after leaked information about the program was published. Several lawmakers declined to discuss PRISM, citing its top-secret classification, and others said that they had not been aware of the program. After statements had been released by the President and the Director of National Intelligence, some lawmakers began to comment:\n\nSenator John McCain (R-AZ)\n\nSenator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee\n\nSenator Rand Paul (R-KY)\n\nSenator Susan Collins (R-ME), member of Senate Intelligence Committee and past member of Homeland Security Committee\n\nRepresentative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), principal sponsor of the Patriot Act\n\nRepresentative Mike Rogers (R-MI), a Chairman of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.\n\nSenator Mark Udall (D-CO)\n\nRepresentative Todd Rokita (R-IN)\n\nRepresentative Luis Gutierrez (D-IL)\n\nSenator Ron Wyden (D-OR)\n\nFollowing these statements some lawmakers from both parties warned national security officials during a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee that they must change their use of sweeping National Security Agency surveillance programs or face losing the provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act that have allowed for the agency's mass collection of telephone metadata. \"Section 215 expires at the end of 2015, and unless you realize you've got a problem, that is not going to be renewed,\" Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., author of the USA Patriot Act, threatened during the hearing. \"It's got to be changed, and you've got to change how you operate section 215. Otherwise, in two and a half years, you're not going to have it anymore.\"\n\nLeaks of classified documents pointed to the role of a special court in enabling the government's secret surveillance programs, but members of the court maintained they were not collaborating with the executive branch. \"The New York Times\", however, reported in July 2013 that in \"more than a dozen classified rulings, the nation's surveillance court has created a secret body of law giving the National Security Agency the power to amass vast collections of data on Americans while pursuing not only terrorism suspects, but also people possibly involved in nuclear proliferation, espionage and cyberattacks.\" After Members of the U.S. Congress pressed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to release declassified versions of its secret ruling, the court dismissed those requests arguing that the decisions can't be declassified because they contain classified information. Reggie Walton, the current FISA presiding judge, said in a statement: \"The perception that the court is a rubber stamp is absolutely false. There is a rigorous review process of applications submitted by the executive branch, spearheaded initially by five judicial branch lawyers who are national security experts, and then by the judges, to ensure that the court's authorizations comport with what the applicable statutes authorize.\" The accusation of being a \"rubber stamp\" was further rejected by Walton who wrote in a letter to Senator Patrick J. Leahy: \"The annual statistics provided to Congress by the Attorney General [...]—frequently cited to in press reports as a suggestion that the Court's approval rate of application is over 99%—reflect only the number of \"final\" applications submitted to and acted on by the Court. These statistics do not reflect the fact that many applications are altered to prior or final submission or even withheld from final submission entirely, often after an indication that a judge would not approve them.\"\n\nThe U.S. military has acknowledged blocking access to parts of \"The Guardian\" website for thousands of defense personnel across the country, and blocking the entire \"Guardian\" website for personnel stationed throughout Afghanistan, the Middle East, and South Asia. A spokesman said the military was filtering out reports and content relating to government surveillance programs to preserve \"network hygiene\" and prevent any classified material from appearing on unclassified parts of its computer systems. Access to the \"Washington Post\", which also published information on classified NSA surveillance programs disclosed by Edward Snowden, had not been blocked at the time the blocking of access to \"The Guardian\" was reported.\n\nThe former head of the Austrian Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution and Counterterrorism, Gert-René Polli, stated he knew the PRISM program under a different name and stated that surveillance activities had occurred in Austria as well. Polli had publicly stated in 2009 that he had received requests from US intelligence agencies to do things that would be in violation of Austrian law, which Polli refused to allow.\n\nThe Australian government has said it will investigate the impact of the PRISM program and the use of the Pine Gap surveillance facility on the privacy of Australian citizens. Australia's former foreign minister Bob Carr said that Australians shouldn't be concerned about PRISM but that cybersecurity is high on the government's list of concerns. The Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop stated that the acts of Edward Snowden were treachery and offered a staunch defence of her nation's intelligence co-operation with the United States.\n\nBrazil's president at the time, Dilma Rousseff, responded to Snowden's reports that the NSA spied on her phone calls and emails by cancelling a planned October 2013 state visit to the United States, demanding an official apology, which by October 20, 2013, hadn't come. Also, Rousseff classified the spying as unacceptable between more harsh words in a speech before the UN General Assembly on September 24, 2013. As a result, Boeing lost out on a US$4.5 billion contract for fighter jets to Sweden's Saab Group.\n\nCanada's national cryptologic agency, the Communications Security Establishment (CSE), said that commenting on PRISM \"would undermine CSE's ability to carry out its mandate.\" Privacy Commissioner Jennifer Stoddart lamented Canada's standards when it comes to protecting personal online privacy stating \"We have fallen too far behind\" in her report. \"While other nations' data protection authorities have the legal power to make binding orders, levy hefty fines and take meaningful action in the event of serious data breaches, we are restricted to a 'soft' approach: persuasion, encouragement and, at the most, the potential to publish the names of transgressors in the public interest.\" And, \"when push comes to shove,\" Stoddart wrote, \"short of a costly and time-consuming court battle, we have no power to enforce our recommendations.\"\n\nOn 20 October 2013 a committee at the European Parliament backed a measure that, if it is enacted, would require American companies to seek clearance from European officials before complying with United States warrants seeking private data. The legislation has been under consideration for two years. The vote is part of efforts in Europe to shield citizens from online surveillance in the wake of revelations about a far-reaching spying program by the U.S. National Security Agency. Germany and France have also had ongoing mutual talks about how they can keep European email traffic from going across American servers.\n\nOn October 21, 2013 the French Foreign Minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the U.S. Ambassador, Charles Rivkin, to the Quai d'Orsay in Paris to protest large-scale spying on French citizens by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA). Paris prosecutors had opened preliminary inquiries into the NSA program in July, but Fabius said, \"… obviously we need to go further\" and \"we must quickly assure that these practices aren't repeated.\"\n\nGermany did not receive any raw PRISM data, according to a Reuters report. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that \"the internet is new to all of us\" to explain the nature of the program; Matthew Schofield of McClatchy Washington Bureau said, \"She was roundly mocked for that statement.\" Gert-René Polli, a former Austrian counter-terrorism official, said in 2013 that it is \"absurd and unnatural\" for the German authorities to pretend not to have known anything. The German Army was using PRISM to support its operations in Afghanistan as early as 2011.\n\nIn October 2013, it was reported that the NSA monitored Merkel's cell phone. The United States denied the report, but following the allegations, Merkel called President Obama and told him that spying on friends was \"never acceptable, no matter in what situation.\"\n\nIsraeli newspaper \"Calcalist\" discussed the \"Business Insider\" article about the possible involvement of technologies from two secretive Israeli companies in the PRISM program—Verint Systems and Narus.\n\nAfter finding out about the PRISM program, the Mexican Government has started constructing its own spying program to spy on its own citizens. According to Jenaro Villamil, a writer from \"Procesco\", CISEN, Mexico's intelligence agency has started to work with IBM and Hewlett Packard to develop its own data gathering software. \"Facebook, Twitter, Emails and other social network sites are going to be priority.\"\n\nIn New Zealand, University of Otago information science Associate Professor Hank Wolfe said that \"under what was unofficially known as the Five Eyes Alliance, New Zealand and other governments, including the United States, Australia, Canada, and Britain, dealt with internal spying by saying they didn't do it. But they have all the partners doing it for them and then they share all the information.\"\n\nEdward Snowden, in a live streamed Google Hangout to Kim Dotcom and Julian Assange, alleged that he had received intelligence from New Zealand, and the NSA has listening posts in New Zealand.\n\nAt a meeting of European Union leaders held the week of 21 October 2013, Mariano Rajoy, Spain's prime minister, said that \"spying activities aren't proper among partner countries and allies\". On 28 October 2013 the Spanish government summoned the American ambassador, James Costos, to address allegations that the U.S. had collected data on 60 million telephone calls in Spain. Separately, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, a Spanish secretary of state, referred to the need to maintain \"a necessary balance\" between security and privacy concerns, but said that the recent allegations of spying, \"if proven to be true, are improper and unacceptable between partners and friendly countries\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), which also has its own surveillance program, Tempora, had access to the PRISM program on or before June 2010 and wrote 197 reports with it in 2012 alone. The Intelligence and Security Committee of the UK Parliament reviewed the reports GCHQ produced on the basis of intelligence sought from the US. They found in each case a warrant for interception was in place in accordance with the legal safeguards contained in UK law.\n\nIn August 2013, \"The Guardian\" newspaper's offices were visited by agents from GCHQ, who ordered and supervised the destruction of the hard drives containing information acquired from Snowden.\n\nThe original \"Washington Post\" and \"Guardian\" articles reporting on PRISM noted that one of the leaked briefing documents said PRISM involves collection of data \"directly from the servers\" of several major Internet services providers.\n\nCorporate executives of several companies identified in the leaked documents told \"The Guardian\" that they had no knowledge of the PRISM program in particular and also denied making information available to the government on the scale alleged by news reports. Statements of several of the companies named in the leaked documents were reported by TechCrunch and \"The Washington Post\" as follows:\n\n\nIn response to the technology companies' denials of the NSA being able to directly access the companies' servers, \"The New York Times\" reported that sources had stated the NSA was gathering the surveillance data from the companies using other technical means in response to court orders for specific sets of data. \"The Washington Post\" suggested, \"It is possible that the conflict between the PRISM slides and the company spokesmen is the result of imprecision on the part of the NSA author. In another classified report obtained by The Post, the arrangement is described as allowing 'collection managers [to send] content tasking instructions directly to equipment installed at company-controlled locations,' rather than directly to company servers.\" \"[I]n context, 'direct' is more likely to mean that the NSA is receiving data sent to them deliberately by the tech companies, as opposed to intercepting communications as they're transmitted to some other destination.\n\n\"If these companies received an order under the FISA amendments act, they are forbidden by law from disclosing having received the order and disclosing any information about the order at all,\" Mark Rumold, staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, told ABC News.\n\nOn May 28, 2013, Google was ordered by United States District Court Judge Susan Illston to comply with a National Security Letter issued by the FBI to provide user data without a warrant. Kurt Opsahl, a senior staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, in an interview with VentureBeat said, \"I certainly appreciate that Google put out a transparency report, but it appears that the transparency didn't include this. I wouldn't be surprised if they were subject to a gag order.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported on June 7, 2013, that \"Twitter declined to make it easier for the government. But other companies were more compliant, according to people briefed on the negotiations.\" The other companies held discussions with national security personnel on how to make data available more efficiently and securely. In some cases, these companies made modifications to their systems in support of the intelligence collection effort. The dialogues have continued in recent months, as General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has met with executives including those at Facebook, Microsoft, Google and Intel. These details on the discussions provide insight into the disparity between initial descriptions of the government program including a training slide which states, \"Collection directly from the servers\" and the companies' denials.\n\nWhile providing data in response to a legitimate FISA request approved by the FISA Court is a legal requirement, modifying systems to make it easier for the government to collect the data is not. This is why Twitter could legally decline to provide an enhanced mechanism for data transmission. Other than Twitter, the companies were effectively asked to construct a locked mailbox and provide the key to the government, people briefed on the negotiations said. Facebook, for instance, built such a system for requesting and sharing the information. Google does not provide a lockbox system, but instead transmits required data by hand delivery or ssh.\n\nIn response to the publicity surrounding media reports of data-sharing, several companies requested permission to reveal more public information about the nature and scope of information provided in response to National Security requests.\n\nOn June 14, 2013, Facebook reported that the U.S. government had authorized the communication of \"about these numbers in aggregate, and as a range.\" In a press release posted to its web site, the company reported, \"For the six months ending December 31, 2012, the total number of user-data requests Facebook received from any and all government entities in the U.S. (including local, state, and federal, and including criminal and national security-related requests) – was between 9,000 and 10,000.\" The company further reported that the requests impacted \"between 18,000 and 19,000\" user accounts, a \"tiny fraction of one percent\" of more than 1.1 billion active user accounts.\n\nThat same day, Microsoft reported that for the same period, it received \"between 6,000 and 7,000 criminal and national security warrants, subpoenas and orders affecting between 31,000 and 32,000 consumer accounts from U.S. governmental entities (including local, state and federal)\" which impacted \"a tiny fraction of Microsoft's global customer base.\"\n\nGoogle issued a statement criticizing the requirement that data be reported in aggregated form, stating that lumping national security requests with criminal request data would be \"a step backwards\" from its previous, more detailed practices on its website's transparency report. The company said that it would continue to seek government permission to publish the number and extent of FISA requests.\n\nCisco Systems saw a huge drop in export sales because of fears that the National Security Agency could be using backdoors in its products.\n\nOn September 12, 2014, Yahoo! reported the U.S. Government threatened the imposition of $250,000 in fines per day if Yahoo didn't hand over user data as part of the NSA's PRISM program. It is not known if other companies were threatened or fined for not providing data in response to a legitimate FISA requests.\n\n\"The New York Times\" editorial board charged that the Obama administration \"has now lost all credibility on this issue,\" and lamented that \"for years, members of Congress ignored evidence that domestic intelligence-gathering had grown beyond their control, and, even now, few seem disturbed to learn that every detail about the public's calling and texting habits now reside in a N.S.A. database.\" It wrote with respect to the FISA-Court in context of PRISM that it is \"a perversion of the American justice system\" when \"judicial secrecy is coupled with a one-sided presentation of the issues.\" According to the New York Times, \"the result is a court whose reach is expanding far beyond its original mandate and without any substantive check.\"\n\nJames Robertson, a former federal district judge based in Washington who served on the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court for three years between 2002 and 2005 and who ruled against the Bush administration in the landmark \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" case, said FISA court is independent but flawed because only the government's side is represented effectively in its deliberations. \"Anyone who has been a judge will tell you a judge needs to hear both sides of a case,\" said James Robertson. Without this judges do not benefit from adversarial debate. He suggested creating an advocate with security clearance who would argue against government filings. Robertson questioned whether the secret FISA court should provide overall legal approval for the surveillance programs, saying the court \"has turned into something like an administrative agency.\" Under the changes brought by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Act of 2008, which expanded the US government's authority by forcing the court to approve entire surveillance systems and not just surveillance warrants as it previously handled, \"the court is now approving programmatic surveillance. I don't think that is a judicial function.\" Robertson also said he was \"frankly stunned\" by the New York Times report that FISA court rulings had created a new body of law broadening the ability of the NSA to use its surveillance programs to target not only terrorists but suspects in cases involving espionage, cyberattacks and weapons of mass destruction.\n\nFormer CIA analyst Valerie Plame Wilson and former U.S. diplomat Joseph Wilson, writing in an op-ed article published in \"The Guardian\", said that \"Prism and other NSA data-mining programs might indeed be very effective in hunting and capturing actual terrorists, but we don't have enough information as a society to make that decision.\"\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), an international non-profit digital-rights group based in the U.S., is hosting a tool, by which an American resident can write to their government representatives regarding their opposition to mass spying.\n\nThe Obama administration's argument that NSA surveillance programs such as PRISM and Boundless Informant had been necessary to prevent acts of terrorism was challenged by several parties. Ed Pilkington and Nicholas Watt of \"The Guardian\" said of the case of Najibullah Zazi, who had planned to bomb the New York City Subway, that interviews with involved parties and U.S. and British court documents indicated that the investigation into the case had actually been initiated in response to \"conventional\" surveillance methods such as \"old-fashioned tip-offs\" of the British intelligence services, rather than to leads produced by NSA surveillance. Michael Daly of \"The Daily Beast\" stated that even though Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who conducted the Boston Marathon bombing with his brother Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, had visited the Al Qaeda-affiliated \"Inspire\" magazine website, and even though Russian intelligence officials had raised concerns with U.S. intelligence officials about Tamerlan Tsarnaev, PRISM did not prevent him from carrying out the Boston attacks. Daly observed that, \"The problem is not just what the National Security Agency is gathering at the risk of our privacy but what it is apparently unable to monitor at the risk of our safety.\"\n\nRon Paul, a former Republican member of Congress and prominent libertarian, thanked Snowden and Greenwald and denounced the mass surveillance as unhelpful and damaging, urging instead more transparency in U.S. government actions. He called Congress \"derelict in giving that much power to the government,\" and said that had he been elected president, he would have ordered searches only when there was probable cause of a crime having been committed, which he said was not how the PRISM program was being operated.\n\n\"New York Times\" columnist Thomas L. Friedman defended limited government surveillance programs intended to protect the American people from terrorist acts:\n\nYes, I worry about potential government abuse of privacy from a program designed to prevent another 9/11—abuse that, so far, does not appear to have happened. But I worry even more about another 9/11. ... If there were another 9/11, I fear that 99 percent of Americans would tell their members of Congress: \"Do whatever you need to do to, privacy be damned, just make sure this does not happen again.\" \"That\" is what I fear most.\nThat is why I'll reluctantly, very reluctantly, trade off the government using data mining to look for suspicious patterns in phone numbers called and e-mail addresses—and then have to go to a judge to get a warrant to actually look at the content under guidelines set by Congress—to prevent a day where, out of fear, we give government a license to look at anyone, any e-mail, any phone call, anywhere, anytime.\n\nPolitical commentator David Brooks similarly cautioned that government data surveillance programs are a necessary evil: \"if you don't have mass data sweeps, well, then these agencies are going to want to go back to the old-fashioned eavesdropping, which is a lot more intrusive.\"\n\nConservative commentator Charles Krauthammer worried less about the legality of PRISM and other NSA surveillance tools than about the potential for their abuse without more stringent oversight. \"The problem here is not constitutionality. ... We need a toughening of both congressional oversight and judicial review, perhaps even some independent outside scrutiny. Plus periodic legislative revision—say, reauthorization every couple of years—in light of the efficacy of the safeguards and the nature of the external threat. The object is not to abolish these vital programs. It's to fix them.\"\n\nIn a blog post, David Simon, the creator of \"The Wire\", compared the NSA's programs, including PRISM, to a 1980s effort by the City of Baltimore to add dialed number recorders to all pay phones to know which individuals were being called by the callers; the city believed that drug traffickers were using pay phones and pagers, and a municipal judge allowed the city to place the recorders. The placement of the dialers formed the basis of the show's first season. Simon argued that the media attention regarding the NSA programs is a \"faux scandal.\" Simon had stated that many classes of people in American society had already faced constant government surveillance.\n\nPolitical theorist, and frequent critic of U.S. government policies, Noam Chomsky argued, \"Governments should not have this capacity. But governments will use whatever technology is available to them to combat their primary enemy – which is their own population.\"\n\nA CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll conducted June 11 through 13 found that 66% of Americans generally supported the program. However, a Quinnipiac University poll conducted June 28 through July 8 found that 45% of registered voters think the surveillance programs have gone too far, with 40% saying they do not go far enough, compared to 25% saying they had gone too far and 63% saying not far enough in 2010. Other polls have shown similar shifts in public opinion as revelations about the programs were leaked.\n\nIn terms of economic impact, a study released in August by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation found that the disclosure of PRISM could cost the U.S. economy between $21.5 and $35 billion in lost cloud computing business over three years.\n\nSentiment around the world was that of general displeasure upon learning the extent of world communication data mining. Some national leaders spoke against the NSA and some spoke against their own national surveillance. One national minister had scathing comments on the National Security Agency's data-mining program, citing Benjamin Franklin: \"The more a society monitors, controls, and observes its citizens, the less free it is.\" Some question if the costs of hunting terrorists now overshadows the loss of citizen privacy.\n\nNick Xenophon, an Australian independent senator, asked Bob Carr, the Australian Minister of Foreign Affairs, if e-mail addresses of Australian parliamentarians were exempt from PRISM, Mainway, Marina, and/or Nucleon. After Carr replied that there was a legal framework to protect Australians but that the government would not comment on intelligence matters, Xenophon argued that this was not a specific answer to his question.\n\nTaliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid said, \"We knew about their past efforts to trace our system. We have used our technical resources to foil their efforts and have been able to stop them from succeeding so far.\" However CNN has reported that terrorist groups have changed their \"communications behaviors\" in response to the leaks.\n\nIn 2013 the Cloud Security Alliance surveyed cloud computing stakeholders about their reactions to the US PRISM spying scandal. About 10% of non-US residents indicated that they had cancelled a project with a US-based cloud computing provider, in the wake of PRISM; 56% said that they would be less likely to use a US-based cloud computing service. The Alliance predicted that US cloud computing providers might lose as much as €26 billion and 20% of its share of cloud services in foreign markets because of the PRISM spying scandal.\n\nReactions of internet users in China were mixed between viewing a loss of freedom worldwide and seeing state surveillance coming out of secrecy. The story broke just before U.S. President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping met in California. When asked about NSA hacking China, the spokeswoman of Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China said, \"China strongly advocates cybersecurity.\" The party-owned newspaper \"Liberation Daily\" described this surveillance like \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"-style. Hong Kong legislators Gary Fan and Claudia Mo wrote a letter to Obama stating, \"the revelations of blanket surveillance of global communications by the world's leading democracy have damaged the image of the U.S. among freedom-loving peoples around the world.\" Ai Weiwei, a Chinese dissident, said, \"Even though we know governments do all kinds of things I was shocked by the information about the US surveillance operation, Prism. To me, it's abusively using government powers to interfere in individuals' privacy. This is an important moment for international society to reconsider and protect individual rights.\"\n\nSophie in 't Veld, a Dutch Member of the European Parliament, called PRISM \"a violation of EU laws.\"\nThe German Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Peter Schaar, condemned the program as \"monstrous.\" He further added that White House claims do \"not reassure me at all\" and that \"given the large number of German users of Google, Facebook, Apple or Microsoft services, I expect the German government [...] is committed to clarification and limitation of surveillance.\" Steffen Seibert, press secretary of the Chancellor's office, announced that Angela Merkel will put these issues on the agenda of the talks with Barack Obama during his pending visit in Berlin. Wolfgang Schmidt, a former lieutenant colonel with the Stasi, said that the Stasi would have seen such a program as a \"dream come true\" since the Stasi lacked the technology that made PRISM possible. Schmidt expressed opposition, saying, \"It is the height of naivete to think that once collected this information won't be used. This is the nature of secret government organizations. The only way to protect the people's privacy is not to allow the government to collect their information in the first place.\" Many Germans organized protests, including one at Checkpoint Charlie, when Obama went to Berlin to speak. Matthew Schofield of the McClatchy Washington Bureau said, \"Germans are dismayed at Obama's role in allowing the collection of so much information.\"\n\nThe Italian president of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, Antonello Soro, said that the surveillance dragnet \"would not be legal in Italy\" and would be \"contrary to the principles of our legislation and would represent a very serious violation.\"\n\nCNIL (French data protection watchdog) intimates Google to change its privacy policies within three months or it'll risk fines up to 150,000 euros. Spanish Agency of data protection (AEPD) is planning to fine Google between 40k and 300k euros, if it fails to clear about the past usage of the massive data of the Spanish users.\n\nWilliam Hague, the foreign secretary of the United Kingdom, dismissed accusations that British security agencies had been circumventing British law by using information gathered on British citizens by PRISM saying, \"Any data obtained by us from the United States involving UK nationals is subject to proper UK statutory controls and safeguards.\" David Cameron said Britain's spy agencies that received data collected from PRISM acted within the law: \"I'm satisfied that we have intelligence agencies that do a fantastically important job for this country to keep us safe, and they operate within the law.\" Malcolm Rifkind, the chairman of parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee, said that if the British intelligence agencies were seeking to know the content of emails about people living in the UK, then they actually have to get lawful authority. The UK's Information Commissioner's Office was more cautious, saying it would investigate PRISM alongside other European data agencies: \"There are real issues about the extent to which U.S. law agencies can access personal data of UK and other European citizens. Aspects of U.S. law under which companies can be compelled to provide information to U.S. agencies potentially conflict with European data protection law, including the UK's own Data Protection Act. The ICO has raised this with its European counterparts, and the issue is being considered by the European Commission, who are in discussions with the U.S. Government.\"\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, accused western governments of practicing hypocrisy, as they conducted spying on the internet while they criticized other countries for spying on the internet. Berners-Lee said that internet spying can make people feel reluctant to access intimate details or use the internet in a certain way, and as paraphrased by Steve Robson of the \"Daily Mail\", he said that the internet \"should be protected from being controlled by governments or large corporations.\"\n\nMinister of External Affairs Salman Khurshid defended the PRISM program saying, \"This is not scrutiny and access to actual messages\". It is only computer analysis of patterns of calls and emails that are being sent. It is not actually snooping specifically on content of anybody's message or conversation. Some of the information they got out of their scrutiny, they were able to use it to prevent serious terrorist attacks in several countries.\" His comments contradicted his Foreign Ministry's characterization of violations of privacy as \"unacceptable.\" When Minister of Communications and Information Technology Kapil Sibal was asked about Khurshid's comments, he refused to comment on them directly, but said, \"We do not know the nature of data or information sought [as part of PRISM]. Even the external ministry does not have any idea.\" The media felt that Khurshid's defence of PRISM was because the India government was rolling out the Central Monitoring System (CMS), which is similar to the PRISM program.\n\nKhurshid's comments were criticized by the Indian media, as well as opposition party CPI(M) who stated, \"The UPA government should have strongly protested against such surveillance and bugging. Instead, it is shocking that Khurshid has sought to justify it. This shameful remark has come at a time when even the close allies of the US like Germany and France have protested against the snooping on their countries.\"\n\nRajya Sabha MP P. Rajeev told \"The Times of India\" that \"The act of the USA is a clear violation of Vienna convention on diplomatic relations. But Khurshid is trying to justify it. And the speed of the government of India to reject the asylum application of Edward Snowden is shameful.\"\n\nOn June 8, 2013, the Director of National Intelligence issued a fact sheet stating that PRISM \"is not an undisclosed collection or data mining program,\" but rather \"an internal government computer system\" used to facilitate the collection of foreign intelligence information \"under court supervision, as authorized by Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) (50 U.S.C. § 1881a).\" Section 702 provides that \"the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence may authorize jointly, for a period of up to 1 year from the effective date of the authorization, the targeting of persons reasonably believed to be located outside the United States to acquire foreign intelligence information.\" In order to authorize the targeting, the Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence need to obtain an order from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISA Court) pursuant to Section 702 or certify that \"intelligence important to the national security of the United States may be lost or not timely acquired and time does not permit the issuance of an order.\" When requesting an order, the Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence must certify to the FISA Court that \"a significant purpose of the acquisition is to obtain foreign intelligence information.\" They do not need to specify which facilities or property will be targeted.\n\nAfter receiving a FISA Court order or determining that there are emergency circumstances, the Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence can direct an electronic communication service provider to give them access to information or facilities to carry out the targeting and keep the targeting secret. The provider then has the option to: (1) comply with the directive; (2) reject it; or (3) challenge it with the FISA Court. If the provider complies with the directive, it is released from liability to its users for providing the information and is reimbursed for the cost of providing it, while if the provider rejects the directive, the Attorney General may request an order from the FISA Court to enforce it. A provider that fails to comply with the FISA Court's order can be punished with contempt of court.\n\nFinally, a provider can petition the FISA Court to reject the directive. In case the FISA Court denies the petition and orders the provider to comply with the directive, the provider risks contempt of court if it refuses to comply with the FISA Court's order. The provider can appeal the FISA Court's denial to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review and then appeal the Court of Review's decision to the Supreme Court by a writ of certiorari for review under seal.\n\nThe Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the FISA Courts had been put in place to oversee intelligence operations in the period after the death of J. Edgar Hoover. Beverly Gage of \"Slate\" said, \"When they were created, these new mechanisms were supposed to stop the kinds of abuses that men like Hoover had engineered. Instead, it now looks as if they have come to function as rubber stamps for the expansive ambitions of the intelligence community. J. Edgar Hoover no longer rules Washington, but it turns out we didn't need him anyway.\"\n\nLaura Donohue, a law professor at the Georgetown University Law Center and its Center on National Security and the Law, has called PRISM and other NSA mass surveillance programs unconstitutional.\n\nWoodrow Hartzog, an affiliate at Stanford Law School's Center for Internet and Society commented that \"[The ACLU will] likely have to demonstrate legitimate First Amendment harms (such as chilling effects) or Fourth Amendment harms (perhaps a violation of a reasonable expectation of privacy)... Is it a harm to merely know with certainty that you are being monitored by the government? There's certainly an argument that it is. People under surveillance act differently, experience a loss of autonomy, are less likely to engage in self exploration and reflection, and are less willing to engage in core expressive political activities such as dissenting speech and government criticism. Such interests are what First and Fourth Amendment seek to protect.\"\n\nThe FISA Amendments Act (FAA) Section 702 is referenced in PRISM documents detailing the electronic interception, capture and analysis of metadata. Many reports and letters of concern written by members of Congress suggest that this section of FAA in particular is legally and constitutionally problematic, such as by targeting U.S. persons, insofar as \"Collections occur in U.S.\" as published documents indicate.\n\nThe ACLU has asserted the following regarding the FAA: \"Regardless of abuses, the problem with the FAA is more fundamental: the statute itself is unconstitutional.\"\n\nSenator Rand Paul is introducing new legislation called the Fourth Amendment Restoration Act of 2013 to stop the NSA or other agencies of the United States government from violating the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution using technology and big data information systems like PRISM and Boundless Informant.\n\nBesides the information collection program started in 2007, there are two other programs sharing the name PRISM:\n\n\nParallel programs, known collectively as SIGADs gather data and metadata from other sources, each SIGAD has a set of defined sources, targets, types of data collected, legal authorities, and software associated with it. Some SIGADs have the same name as the umbrella under which they sit, BLARNEY's (the SIGAD) summary, set down in the slides alongside a cartoon insignia of a shamrock and a leprechaun hat, describes it as \"an ongoing collection program that leverages IC [intelligence community] and commercial partnerships to gain access and exploit foreign intelligence obtained from global networks.\"\n\nSome SIGADs, like PRISM, collect data at the ISP level, but others take it from the top-level infrastructure. This type of collection is known as \"upstream\". Upstream collection includes programs known by the blanket terms BLARNEY, FAIRVIEW, OAKSTAR and STORMBREW, under each of these are individual SIGADs. Data that is integrated into a SIGAD can be gathered in other ways besides upstream, and from the service providers, for instance it can be collected from passive sensors around embassies, or even stolen from an individual computer network in a hacking attack.\n\nNot all SIGADs involve upstream collection, for instance, data could be taken directly from a service provider, either by agreement (as is the case with PRISM), by means of hacking, or other ways.\nAccording to the \"Washington Post\", the much less known MUSCULAR program, which directly taps the unencrypted data inside the Google and Yahoo private clouds, collects more than twice as many data points compared to PRISM. Because the Google and Yahoo clouds span the globe, and because the tap was done outside of the United States, unlike PRISM, the MUSCULAR program requires no (FISA or other type of) warrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "29722312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29722312", "title": "Robert Hall (aircraft designer)", "text": "Robert Hall (aircraft designer)\n\nRobert L. Hall (1906–1991) was an American Air racing pilot and aircraft designer.\n\nRobert L. Hall was born in Taunton, Massachusetts in 1905. After graduating in 1927 from the University of Michigan, with a degree in Mechanical Engineering, he joined the Granville Brothers Aircraft, where he was the chief engineer. He designed the Gee Bee Model Z racer, the \"City of Springfield,\" which swept the competition in every contest in the National Air Races of 1931. On the September 5, Hall himself flew the Gee Bee Z to victory in the General Tire and Rubber Trophy race. Lowell Bayles flew the aircraft the next day to victory in the free-for-all event. \n\nHall then left the Granville Brothers, to form Hall Aircraft. There he designed the \"Bulldog\" racing aircraft, which he went on to race at the 1932 National Air Races, finished sixth at a speed of 215.5 mph. Afterwards there was speculation that its experimental Hamilton Standard propeller prevented the Wasp engine from running at full power. Hall was so disappointed with its performance that he dismantled and scrapped the plane after that race. He also designed the \"Cicada\" racer, which was scheduled to race at the 1932 National Air Races by owner Frank Lynch but did not start the race due to engine problems.\n\nRobert Hall later joined Grumman, where he helped design and test a series of planes that proved a major force during World War II. Serving as Chief Engineer and lead flight test pilot, he helped design and made the first flights of the F4F Wildcat, the G-21 Goose in 1937, the XP-50 in 1941, the F6F Hellcat in 1942, the F7F Tigercat in 1943 and the F8F Bearcat in 1944. On May 14, 1941 while flying the XP-50, it experienced an inflight turbocharger explosion while over Long Island Sound. Hall was forced to parachute to safety. As Grumman's chief engineer and vice president, he was instrumental in the design of the F9F Panther, F9F Cougar, F10F Jaguar and F11F Tiger jet fighters and the Gulfstream I executive aircraft. He retired from Grumman in 1970.\n\nHis son Eric Hall is co-founder of Halls Spars, which manufacturers sailboat rigging.\n"}
{"id": "2930200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2930200", "title": "Santa Catarina (ship)", "text": "Santa Catarina (ship)\n\nSanta Catarina was a Portuguese merchant ship, a 1500-ton carrack, that was seized by the Dutch East India Company (also known as V.O.C) during February 1603 off Singapore. She was such a rich prize that her sale proceeds increased the capital of the V.O.C by more than 50%. From the large amounts of Ming Chinese porcelain captured in this ship, Chinese pottery became known in Holland as \"Kraakporselein\", or \"carrack-porcelain\" for many years.\n\nAt dawn of 25 February 1603 three Dutch ships under the command of Admiral Jacob van Heemskerk spotted the carrack at anchor off the Eastern coast of Singapore. The Portuguese ship, captained by Sebastian Serrão, was travelling from Macau to Malacca, loaded with products from China and Japan, including 1200 bales of Chinese raw silk, worth 2.2 million guilders. The cargo was particularly valuable because it contained several hundred ounces of musk. After a couple of hours of fighting, the Dutch managed to subdue the crew who forfeited the cargo and the ship, in return for the safety of their lives. The Amsterdam Admiralty Court declared the captured carrack good prize on 4 September 1604.\n\nThis period marked the start of the Dutch–Portuguese War that would end the Portuguese monopoly on trade in the East Indies. The Dutch, who had learnt about the trade routes in 1596 due to another Dutchman, Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, were attempting to appropriate some of that wealth for themselves.\n\nThe Dutch were at war with Spain and Portugal when \"Santa Catarina\" was captured. Though Heemskerk did not have authorization from the company or the government to initiate the use of force, many shareholders were eager to accept the riches that he brought back to them. Not only was the legality of keeping the prize questionable under Dutch statute, but a faction of shareholders (mostly Mennonite) in the Company also objected to the forceful seizure on moral grounds, and of course, the Portuguese demanded the return of their cargo. The scandal led to a public judicial hearing and a wider campaign to sway public (and international) opinion. It was in this wider contest that representatives of the Company called upon jurist Hugo Grotius to draft a polemical defence of the seizure.\n\nGrotius sought to ground his defense of the seizure in terms of the natural principles of justice. One chapter of his long theory-laden treatise entitled \"De Jure Prædæ\" made it to the press in the form of the influential pamphlet, \"Mare Liberum\" (\"The Free Sea\").\n\nIn \"Mare Liberum\", published in 1609, Grotius adapted the principle originally formulated by Francisco de Vitoria and further developed by Fernando Vazquez de Menchaca (cf. the School of Salamanca), that the sea was international territory, against the Portuguese \"Mare Clausum\" (closed sea) policy, and all nations were free to use it for seafaring trade. Grotius, by claiming 'free seas', provided suitable ideological justification for the Dutch breaking up of various trade monopolies through its formidable naval power.\n\nEngland, competing fiercely with the Dutch for domination of world trade, opposed this idea, redefining the Mare Clausum principles. As conflicting claims grew out of the controversy, maritime states came to moderate their demands and base their maritime claims on the principle that it extended seawards from land. A workable formula was found by Cornelius Bynkershoek in his \"De dominio maris\" (1702), restricting maritime dominion to the actual distance within which cannon range could effectively protect it. This became universally adopted and developed into the three-mile limit.\n\n"}
{"id": "950346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950346", "title": "Seattle Hempfest", "text": "Seattle Hempfest\n\nSeattle Hempfest is an annual event in Seattle, Washington, the world's largest annual gathering advocating decriminalization of marijuana. Vivian McPeak serves as the organization's executive director. Founded in 1991 as the Washington Hemp Expo, a self-described \"humble gathering of stoners\" attended by only 500 people, and renamed the following year as Hempfest, it has grown into a three-day annual political rally, concert, and arts and crafts fair with attendance typically over 100,000. Speakers have included Seattle city council member Nick Licata, actor/activist Woody Harrelson (2004), travel writer and TV host Rick Steves (2007), (2010), 2012 Green Party speaker Jill Stein, Dallas Cowboys center Mark Stepnoski (2003), and former chief of the Seattle Police Department Norm Stamper (2006). Hempfest has also in recent years attracted such well-known performers as Fishbone (2002), The Kottonmouth Kings (2004), Rehab (2006), and Pato Banton (2007) to its five stages spread throughout Myrtle Edwards Park and Elliott Bay Park, on Seattle's waterfront.\n\nEarly Hempfests \"featured blatant marijuana smoking\"; 60 people were cited for illegal marijuana use at the 1997 Hempfest, and about 20 were arrested the following year. Eventually Hempfest and the police reached a \"modus vivendi\": there was only one arrest in 2001. The political context surrounding marijuana in Seattle and Washington has changed considerably over the years. Washington legalized medical marijuana in 1998. In 2003, Seattle passed an initiative that made adult personal use marijuana offenses the city's lowest law enforcement priority.\n\nThe 2008 Seattle Hempfest, which took place August 16–17, set a new record for attendance, topping 310,000 people. The volunteers of Seattle Hempfest were awarded the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) award for \"Outstanding Cannabis Advocate of the Year Award\" on October 17, 2008 at the National NORML Conference for their efforts.\n\n2011 Hempfest speakers included numerous elected officials, among them Ohio congressman Dennis Kucinich, Seattle Mayor Mike McGinn, City Attorney Pete Holmes, a return by Councilman Licata, and Washington State Representatives Mary Lou Dickerson and Roger Goodman.\n\n2013 brought legalization to Washington State and Seattle Hempfest featured performances by Everlast, Hed PE and DJ Muggs of Cypress Hill. As of 2013, the festival has an annual budget of approximately $700,000.\n\nOther Northwest cities with their own festivals called \"Hempfest\" include Olympia, Washington (Olympia Hempfest, held on the grounds of the 1905–1928 capitol building), Eugene and Salem, Oregon (Emerald Empire Hempfest and Salem Hempfest), Moscow, Idaho (Moscow Hemp Fest), Missoula, Montana (Missoula Hempfest). The Freedom Rally in Boston is also called Hempfest. and since 2015 there has been an Alaska HEMPFEST that has taken place in Kenny Lake in 2015, Meadow Lakes in 2016 and again in 2018. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5348860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5348860", "title": "Sport Relief", "text": "Sport Relief\n\nSport Relief is a biennial charity event from Comic Relief, in association with BBC Sport, which brings together the worlds of sport and entertainment to raise money to help vulnerable people in both the UK and the world's poorest countries. At the heart of the campaign is the \"Sport Relief Mile\", which involves members of the public doing their bit for charity.\n\nComic Relief teamed up with the newly established Sport Relief initiative in 2002 and alternates with Sport Relief, airing every second year in March.\n\nLike Comic Relief, the television programming begins in the afternoon, with CBBC having various related reports and money raising events. This is all in-between the regular programmes, but after the six o'clock news, the usual BBC One schedule is suspended at 7pm in favour of a live telethon, with a break at 10pm for the regular news programme. However, whilst the \"BBC News at Ten\" is aired on BBC One, Sport Relief continues on BBC Two, and then resumes on BBC One at 10:35pm, with each hour overseen by a different celebrity team. These celebrities do the work for free, as do the crew, with studio space and production facilities donated by the BBC.\n\nCurrent presenters\n\nFormer presenters\nThe first Sport Relief single in 2002 was \"Your Song\", re-recorded as a duet by original artist Elton John and Italian opera singer Alessandro Safina, reaching number 4 in the chart. In 2004 \"Some Girls\" by Rachel Stevens made it to number 2 and in 2006, the third ever Sport Relief single, \"Don't Stop Me Now\"/\"Please, Please\" by McFly, was the first to top the chart, selling 36,496 units in the week ending 29 July 2006. In 2008 the Sport Relief single was by Leona Lewis with her single \"Footprints in the Sand\", though it was officially released as a double A-side with \"Better in Time\". In 2010 the single was \"Morning Sun\", sung by Robbie Williams. In 2012 the song was \"Proud\", sung by JLS and in 2014 \"Word Up!\" sung by Little Mix both peaking at the 6th position. In 2016 \"Running\" sung by James Bay peaked at 60.\n\nThe first Sport Relief show was presented by Gary Lineker, Ulrika Jonsson, Jamie Theakston and Clare Balding and included Stephen Fry hosting a special edition of \"They Think it's a Question of Sport\", John Inverdale and Suzi Perry resurrecting the classic 1970s series \"Superstars\" and the first ever bout of \"Celebrity Boxing\" when Bob Mortimer beat Les Dennis. The first event took place on Saturday 13 July 2002. The final total on the night was £10,072,068.\n\nOther items were \"Sport in the Square\" where cast members from \"EastEnders\" and \"Holby City\"/\"Casualty\" took part in a series of sporting challenges, \"Runaround\", with Johnny Vegas, music from Gareth Gates and Will Young and contributions from Nick Hancock, Patrick Kielty, Angus Deayton, Ronni Ancona, Alistair McGowan, Audley Harrison, Alec Stewart, Tanni Grey-Thompson and Sir Steve Redgrave.\n\nOne of the highlights of the campaign came at the end of the final of the Stella Artois tennis championship when there was a surprise additional match for Sport Relief between the Prime Minister, Tony Blair and Pat Cash against Ilie Năstase and Alistair McGowan. Blair and Cash won the specially reduced set 4-1. Tony Hawks was the courtside commentator and the game was shown live on \"Sunday Grandstand\".\n\nThe second Sport Relief was on Saturday 10 July 2004. the main show was on BBC One from 19.00–00.30. The first half was presented by Gary Lineker and Gabby Logan and the second half by Jamie Theakston and Tess Daly.\n\nIn the first half of the show (19.00–21.00) Cilla Black hosted a celebrity version of \"Inter-Channel Superstars\" where the BBC squad took on teams from ITV, Channel 4 and Five, the stars of \"Strictly Come Dancing\" performed a special routine to a re-mix of iconic BBC Sport theme tunes, Bruce Forsyth was on hand to present a cheque, Patrick Kielty was live in the studio to talk about the Indian railway project he had visited, Rachel Stevens performed the Sport Relief single, \"Some Girls\", Dick and Dom introduced Ray Stubbs being swung from a crane into a giant ball of dung and Stephen Fry hosted another edition of \"A Question of Sport Relief\".\n\nWhile the News and Lottery were on BBC One, there was a brand new show on BBC Two, \"Stars in Fast Cars\" which featured Alan Davies, Jodie Kidd, Patrick Kielty, Jimmy Carr and Darren Jordon competing in a variety of car related races and stunts.\n\nThe second half of the main show was back on BBC One from 21.30 to 00.30. Angus Deayton looked at Sports Stars in adverts, Lionel Richie and Badly Drawn Boy performed live in the studio, Jon Culshaw unveiled his Wayne Rooney impersonation, and Paul Whitehouse's Ron Manager interrogated David Beckham about his texting technique. Eamonn Holmes was the host when Rugby took on Football with teams that included Dion Dublin, Lee Sharpe, Martin Offiah and Matt Dawson and in this year's \"Celebrity Boxing\" Ben Fogle beat Sid Owen. Colin Jackson, Sir Steve Redgrave and Arsène Wenger were amongst the sporting names who also appeared live on the show.\n\nThe show also included highlights of some of the Sport Relief Miles which had attracted 81,000 at giant and local events in all parts of the UK. Jo Brand was on hand to represent them and talk about her experiences at the Brighton Mile.\n\nThroughout the night there were also a whole series of appeal films to show where the Sport Relief money had already been spent and where the need was greatest. They were made by BBC Bristol and included Nick Knowles in Africa, Patrick Kielty in India and Victoria Beckham in Peru.\n\nThe campaign itself involved 253 celebrities and raised £16 million. The final total on the night of the telethon was £11,078,359.\n\nThe third Sport Relief took place on Saturday 15 July 2006 with a whole day of programming across the BBC that culminated in the main evening show on BBC One at 7pm. Gary Lineker, Chris Evans and Davina McCall were the hosts for the entire evening.\n\nOnce again the programme came live from TC1 at Television Centre and featured its biggest line up of names to date.\n\nThe second half was back on BBC One from 22.30 to 01.00. It included golf legend Nick Faldo competing against Lineker and Evans in a comedy pitching competition on the roof of the studio where they had to get their balls into the mouths of giant cut outs of Bruce Forsyth and Jimmy Tarbuck, the second part of \"A Question of Sport Relief\", Jon Culshaw's live performance as George W. Bush, Catherine Tate in a new football sketch as \"Nan\" from \"The Catherine Tate Show\" and Sir Steve Redgrave and Colin Jackson taking part in a live power pint competition. There was also the last ever edition of \"Footballer's Wives\" which had been transferred from ITV for the night and included a guest appearance by Graham Norton, José González performed in the studio, several members of the Sport Relief Red Socks cricket team were there to talk about their tour to India, including Harry Judd, Nick Hancock, Nick Knowles, Jack Russell and Phil Tufnell whilst Derek Acorah starred in a new sketch based in the \"Match of the Day\" studio. The third Sport Relief \"Celebrity Boxing\" bout was won by Jack Osbourne who defeated the formed S Club 7 singer Bradley McIntosh. It was presented by Mark Durden-Smith with Dave Spikey as ringmaster.\n\nBritish pop band McFly covered the hit song \"Don't Stop Me Now\" originally by Queen as the official single for the event. It reached Number 1 in the UK singles chart.\n\nSport Relief moved to March in 2008. BBC One's night of fundraising was held on Friday 14 March and the Sport Relief Miles took place all around the UK on Sunday 16 March. It was presented on stage by Richard Hammond, Gary Lineker & Davina McCall. Bruce Forsyth & Tess Daly presented \"Sport Relief Does Strictly Come Dancing\". Richard Hammond, Jeremy Clarkson & James May presented \"Top Ground Gear Force\". Jimmy Carr presented A Question of Sport Relief with the team captains Sue Barker and Gary Lineker. Sir Alan Sugar presented Sport Relief Does The Apprentice. There were occasional appearances by Jonathan Ross, Jimmy Carr, Sir Michael Parkinson, Patrick Kielty, Claudia Winkleman & Tess Daly\n\nThe BBC presented another version of \"Sport Relief Does The Apprentice\" with 10 celebrities. Also, new for this year, a special episode of \"Strictly Come Dancing\" was shown.\n\nThat year's \"Celebrity Boxing\" saw Ben Shephard of \"GMTV\" beat Lemar on judge's vote.\n\nThe final total raised on the television broadcast was £19,640,321. During the telethon, a mystery donor donated £5.5million to the charity.\n\nSport Relief was broadcast on 19–21 March 2010. The appeal show was aired as usual on BBC One and BBC Two on 19 March from 19:00 to 01:30. A special of \"Strictly Come Dancing\" (filmed on \"The Live Tour\" on Saturday 6 February) aired as well as \"Let's Dance for Sport Relief\".\n\nOn CBBC there were special shows dedicated to Sport Relief including a special edition of \"Dani's House\" and Paddy McGuiness hosted a new series, \"Sport Relief does We Are the Champions\".\n\nThe total raised on the night of broadcast was £31,633,091.\n\nJames Corden also performed various comedy sketches with British Athletes like Andy Murray (tennis), David Beckham (football) and Tom Daley (diving).\n\nLawrence Dallaglio embarked on a gruelling cycle from Rome to Edinburgh during the RBS 6 Nations Championship to raise money for Sport Relief and the Dallaglio Foundation. The Dallaglio Cycle Slam took place over the course of a month, seeing a team cycling through all of the RBS 6 Nations countries, taking in each of the international rugby stadia along the way. The aim was to raise £1million and £1.14 million was raised with 50% going to Sport Relief 2010.\n\nThis year's appeal ran from 23 to 25 March 2012, with the television show airing on 23 March 2012.\n\nOn the night, there was specials from \"Outnumbered\" with Frank Lampard and Christine Bleakley, Miranda at Royal Albert Hall Tennis Tournament with lots of sports stars, \"Twenty Twelve\" with Zara Philips and Sir Steve Redgrave talking about how they should advertise the Olympics on Sport Relief, \"\"Strictly Come Dancing\" Underwater\" with Chelsee Healey and Harry Judd, Horrible Histories and Stephen Fry with Amir Khan and Jermain Defoe, \"Benidorm\" meets \"Britain's Got Talent\" with the new judges, \"Saturday Kitchen\"' with the english football team, \"QI\", \"A Question of Sport\" with 'Sue Barker' as you have never seen her before, \"Celebrity Juice\", Mo Farah takes on the race of his life against Misery Bear, \"8 out of 10 Cats\", \"Mock the Week\", Kate Moss, Stella McCartney, Colin Jackson and Linford Christie are among the star names appearing with Jennifer Saunders and Joanna Lumley in a special edition of \"Absolutely Fabulous\" and Jake Humphrey presents a special \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" with Louise Redknapp and Mel C alongside the regulars.\n\nOn the night there was performances from LMFAO, Snow Patrol, JLS with \"Sport Relief\" single, Emeli Sandé and JLS with rugby players chorus. JLS also did a concert for \"Sport Relief\".\n\nThe total raised on the night of broadcast was £50,447,197.\n\nIn January 2012, there was a series called \"The Great Sport Relief Bake Off\", which had celebrities competing. Anita Rani won the series, which also featured Angela Griffin, Arlene Phillips, Sarah Hadland, James Wong, Saira Khan, Pearl Lowe, Joe Swift and Fi Glover amongst the other contestants who took part. Another series of \"Let's Dance for Sport Relief\" ran up to the telethon weekend for five weeks. It was won by Rowland Rivron who danced to \"Weapon of Choice\" by Fatboy Slim. A new series of \"Sport Relief does Glee Club\" started on Monday 12 March running with one episode each weekday. The first eight episodes were 30 minutes long then there was a live semi-final and final, on \"Sport Relief\" day, which were 45 minutes long.\n\nSegments of this and past \"Sport Relief\" events aired as part of \"Sport Relief Goes Global\" weeks after the event, in which parts of the program could be viewed in other countries including sketches from \"Miranda\", \"Outnumbered\", \"Smithy\", and \"David Walliams swims the Thames\".\n\nSport Relief 2014 took place from Friday 21 to Sunday 23 March 2014. The official campaign launch took place on Tuesday 21 January 2014. The Annual Live Telethon was broadcast live from the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park for the first time, on Friday 21 March. It was hosted by Gary Lineker, David Walliams, Davina McCall, Fearne Cotton, Jack Whitehall and Claudia Winkleman. The \"Clash of the Titans\" was hosted by Gabby Logan and Clare Balding.\n\nIn January 2014, the BBC announced that the 2014 edition of its Sport Relief broadcast on 21 March 2014 would feature a new Only Fools and Horses sketch.\n\nDuring the three weeks before the telethon, \"Sport Relief's Top Dog\" aired on BBC Two with Gaby Roslin as host.\n\nThe Sport Relief Mile was joined by three major cycling events (in London, Manchester and Glasgow) and over 600 Swimathons, under the umbrella title of \"The Sport Relief Games\". The main public faces of the three sections of the \"games\" were Jessica Ennis-Hill, Ellie Simmonds and Chris Hoy. Advance entry opened on 24 September 2013, nearly four months ahead of the official campaign launch.\n\nJohn Bishop and Sebastian Coe competed against each other for the \"Clash of the Titans\" event at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park along with their celebrity teams.\n\nThe total raised on the night of broadcast was £51,242,186.\n\nSport Relief 2016 took place from Friday 18 to Sunday 20 March 2016. The Sport Relief Mile and Swimathon both returned. John Bishop, Gary Lineker, David Walliams, Claudia Winkleman, Davina McCall, Greg James and Alesha Dixon hosted. Ore Oduba and Dan Walker hosted 'Clash of the Titans' taking over from Logan and Balding.\nThe total raised was £55,444,906.\n\nSport Relief 2018 took place from Saturday 17 to Friday 23 March 2018 and was filmed live from dock10. The total raised was £38,195,278.\n\nThe Sport Relief Mile was created to give the campaign a focus with an event that was open to anyone to run, walk, jog, wheel, bounce or crawl, regardless of ability or age. It was also designed to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Sir Roger Bannister's first sub-four-minute mile. Participants can also choose to cover 3 miles or 6 miles (close to, but slightly shorter than, the 5K and 10K distances more commonly used in mass runs).\n\n81,000 people took part in the first Sport Relief Mile, sponsored by Fitness First, in 2004. Sainsbury's is now the official sponsor of the Mile.\n\nIn 2006 more than 423,000 people took part in the Sport Relief Mile, making it one of the biggest mass participation events in history. The Sport Relief Mile Show on BBC One on the morning of Saturday 15 July was presented by John Inverdale and Colin Jackson and drew an audience of almost a million with an 18% share.\n\nAmong the 20,000 participants who took part at London's Embankment were Lord Coe, Dame Kelly Holmes, Sportacus, McFly, Michael Watson, Tessa Sanderson, G4, Jamie Oliver and Sadie Frost.\n\nTelevised Miles were also held in Brighton, Southampton, Plymouth, Bristol, Cardiff, Belfast, Manchester, Glasgow, Newcastle/Gateshead, Leeds, Hull, Nottingham, Birmingham and Ipswich.\n\nChildren from Amsterdam, Netherlands (The British School of Amsterdam) took part in 2008 and along with children from Voorschoten, Netherlands (The British School in the Netherlands) again in 2010.\n\nJohn Inverdale has hosted every \"Sport Relief Mile Show\", initially with Colin Jackson in 2004 and 2006, with Jake Humphrey in 2008, with Chris Hollins, Fern Britton & Helen Skelton in 2010 and from 2012 alongside \"The One Show\" presenters Matt Baker & Alex Jones.\n\nThe Sport Relief Mile was changed for 2014 where participants can Run, Swim or Cycle 1 mile or indeed do all three. The Sport Relief Games were broadcast on Sunday 23 March 2014 on BBC One and were hosted from London by John Inverdale, Alex Jones and Matt Baker with reporters in Cardiff, Glasgow & Belfast. The second Sport Relief Games was shown on Sunday 20 March 2016 on BBC One.\n\nSport Relief provides material for the BBC and is part of a UK registered charity 326568 called Charity Projects.\n\nIn 2009 the charity awarded a total of £36m in grants with net assets of £120m, of which £97m is in fixed asset investments such as funds in equities and bonds. The charity reported staff costs of £6m plus agency staff costs of £6m. The charity will be also be receiving a UK government grant of £5m in 2010.\n\nIn 2006 David Walliams swam the English Channel to raise money for Sport Relief. He trained for 9 months with Professor Greg Whyte of the English Institute for Sport and was also helped by the \"King of the Channel\", Mike Read, chairman of the Channel Swimming Association. Walliams' feat was documented for a BBC programme called \"Little Britain's Big Swim\". David also swam the Gibraltar Strait for the 2008 campaign.\n\nIn 2006, the BBC staged a celebrity elimination show jumping competition called \"Only Fools on Horses\", which raised over £250,000.\n\nOn 26 July 2009, Eddie Izzard began running a series of 43 marathons over 51 days for Sport Relief. On 15 September, Eddie arrived in Trafalgar Square, marking the end of his 43rd marathon in only 51 days. He ran a day, 6 days a week for 7 weeks straight, covering across the UK. Izzard raised over £1,152,510 for Sport Relief. On 23 February 2016, Izzard began a series of 27 marathons in 27 days running across South Africa for Sport Relief; the number 27 refers to the number of years spent in prison by Nelson Mandela. He completed the last marathon on 20 March, arriving at the statue of Mandela outside the Union Buildings in Pretoria, covering , in temperatures in excess of , and raising £1,648,087. He had attempted this effort in 2012, but was forced to back out due to health concerns.\n\nIn 2014, Davina McCall took on a Sport Relief challenge to raise money for the appeal. This was called \"Davina: Beyond Breaking Point\", which saw the presenter tackle bike riding, running and swimming for seven days as she travelled from the north of the country (outside Edinburgh Castle) to the end (in Central London). Alex Jones also took part in a Sport Relief challenge which saw her climb up a rock in Utah, United States. Extensive coverage of this event was shown on \"The One Show\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13065341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13065341", "title": "The Last Confession", "text": "The Last Confession\n\nThe Last Confession is a stage play by Roger Crane about the election and death of Pope John Paul I. The play follows Giovanni Benelli (David Suchet) who recounts, during his last confession, his role in the death of John Paul and how this led him to lose his faith.\n\nDisturbed by the corruption in Vatican City, caused mainly by Paul Marcinkus and Jean-Marie Villot, Benelli attempts to manipulate the August 1978 conclave and elect Albino Luciani as Pope. The plan succeeds and Luciani becomes Pope John Paul I but his unconventional views and actions make him enemies in the Curia.\n\nJust thirty three days into his reign, John Paul dies suddenly and Benelli investigates the death, suspecting the Pope was murdered. Realising that a request for an autopsy would damage the church, Benelli decides to end the investigation and tries to become Pope himself. This time his efforts to manipulate the conclave fail and a compromise candidate, Karol Wojtyła, is elected Pope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46336440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46336440", "title": "The Lizzie Borden Chronicles", "text": "The Lizzie Borden Chronicles\n\nThe Lizzie Borden Chronicles is an American television limited series following Lizzie Borden after she is acquitted of the 1892 murders of her father and stepmother. It premiered on Lifetime on Easter Sunday, April 5, 2015, and ended on May 25, 2015. The series is a continuation of the story begun in the network's 2014 film \"Lizzie Borden Took an Ax\" and, like the film, is fictionalized and speculative.\n\nIn 1893, four months after Lizzie Borden's acquittal for the murders of her father and stepmother, she and her sister Emma try to start a new life despite financial troubles and Lizzie's ruined reputation. Meanwhile, Pinkerton detective Charlie Siringo arrives in Fall River to investigate the case for himself.\n\n\n\n\nIn October 2014, Lifetime announced plans for an additional limited series based on the network's 2014 film \"Lizzie Borden Took an Ax\". Originally referred to as \"Lizzie Borden: The Fall River Chronicles\", the series would take place after Lizzie's trial, with Ricci and DuVall reprising their roles as the Borden sisters. Hauser was cast as Pinkerton detective Charlie Siringo, who investigates other strange occurrences, including murders, centered around the Bordens. Stephen Kay directed the first two episodes.\n\nA teaser trailer calling the series \"The Lizzie Borden Chronicles\" aired on December 8, 2014, during the second part of \"The Red Tent\" miniseries, promoting a 2015 premiere. It featured the tagline, \"Lizzie Borden Has an Axe to Grind\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote in October 2014 that the series would consist of six one-hour episodes, but by January 2015 the order was increased to eight. \"The Lizzie Borden Chronicles\" premiered on April 5, 2015. Most - if not all - of the series was shot in Nova Scotia, Canada, using period buildings and interiors in Halifax and other nearby communities. \n\nLifetime executive vice president and general manager Rob Sharenow said in 2014, “This series will take viewers further down Lizzie Borden’s dark path, revealing what many people suspected about her mysterious life.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" reported that \"while the film was inspired by real-life events, the series will take certain creative liberties, which draw from the mysterious events surrounding the deaths of those close to Borden in the years after her acquittal.\" Ricci said in January 2015, \"It’s an imagining of what could've happened... There are no limits of behavior. There are no rules. It's the ultimate playing a fantasy.\" Director Kay added, \"It's what would happen if you let this woman loose on a community.\" Neil Genzlinger of \"The New York Times\" noted that \"the show mixes tidbits of actual history—there really was a Charlie Siringo, for instance—with lots of fiction and speculation, so don't take anything here seriously\".\n\nIn June 2015, Lifetime opted to not produce further episodes.\n\nThe complete series was released on DVD by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment on February 2, 2016.\n\nThe series has garnered mixed reviews despite high praise for Ricci's performance as Borden. Jane Borden of \"Vanity Fair\" called the series \"playful, wicked brain candy\", adding that \"Ricci was born to play an 19th-century ax murderer, as it turns out.\" Keith Uhlich of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote, \"Christina Ricci brings us the axe! Would that her effort was worth it\" and Deborah Day of \"TheWrap\" noted, \"Christina Ricci kills it, but even her brand of crazy is not enough.\" Praising Ricci's Lizzie as \"gleeful and ruthless\", \"The New York Times\" called the series \"period-piece television served with a wink\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5149400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5149400", "title": "The Senator (tree)", "text": "The Senator (tree)\n\nThe Senator was the biggest and oldest bald cypress tree in the world, located in Big Tree Park, Longwood, Florida. At the time of its demise, it was tall, with a trunk diameter of . The tree was thought to have been destroyed by a fire from a lightning strike, but it was later discovered that the fire was started by an arsonist.\n\nThe Seminoles and other Native American Indians who lived throughout Central Florida used this tree as a landmark. In the late 19th century, the tree attracted visitors even though much of the surrounding land was swamp; reaching the tree was done by leaping from log to log. A walkway was later constructed by the Works Progress Administration. In 1925, a hurricane destroyed the top of the tree, reducing its original height of to a height of . \n\nThe Senator was named for Florida State Senator Moses Overstreet, who donated the tree and surrounding land to Seminole County for a park in 1927. In 1929, former US President Calvin Coolidge reportedly visited The Senator and dedicated the site with a commemorative bronze plaque. A photo that was published of Coolidge and his wife near the tree was reported by the \"Orlando Sentinel\" to have been doctored. The plaque and portions of an iron fence were stolen by vandals in 1945 and never recovered.\n\nOn January 16, 2012, a fire was reported at the top of the Senator tree, which burned from the inside out, \"like a chimney.\" Firefighters arrived to try to extinguish the blaze, but the tree collapsed. The charred remains of the tree now stand only tall.\n\nOn February 28, 2012, The Florida Division of Forestry said they arrested Sara Barnes, age 26, in relation to the fire of The Senator. Barnes said she regularly went to the tree site when the park was closed. On the night of January 16, 2012, Barnes lit a fire with debris so that she could see, but the fire got out of control. Officials said that they found images of the fire being started on Barnes' laptop and on her cellphone.\n\nIn 2014, Barnes was sentenced to 30 months in prison, with the sentence suspended if she could successfully complete five years of probation. However, in October 2015, Barnes was arrested again on other charges, violating her probation. Jailed in December 2015, she went to trial in March 2016. On March 31, 2016, Barnes was found guilty, her probation was rescinded and she was ordered jailed for 30 months, with approximately 10 months credit for time previously served.\n\nSome people believe that the tree is still alive today. They have spotted saplings at the base of the big tree. Officials also said that the tree was cloned at one point, and they are searching to bring the clones back. In October 2013, Seminole County officials allowed a small, select group of artists and woodworkers to create works of art for the county from the charred remains of the Senator. Artisans have created a variety of items, including vases, pens, ornate flutes, and sculptures. Some of the items have been made available for sale at art shows, and officials are working toward making both a permanent and traveling exhibit with some of the artifacts.\n\nOn March 2, 2014, Big Tree Park was re-opened to the public after being closed for almost a year after the fire that destroyed The Senator. A memorial was constructed which includes signage along the newly renovated boardwalk, a playground piece that mimics a bald cypress tree stump and a clone of The Senator that was planted near the playground. The name for the clone is \"The Phoenix\".\n\nA clone of the Senator was located, and currently is growing at the entrance to Big Tree Park.\n\nAs of 1993, the Senator was estimated to be 3,500 years old, making it the 5th oldest tree in the world. The tree's volume had previously been estimated at , but a 2006 survey by Will Blozan of the Native Tree Society has measured the volume at well over , making The Senator not only the largest Bald Cypress in the United States, but also the largest tree of any species east of the Mississippi River.\n\nLocated from where The Senator stood is another old cypress in the same Big Tree Park named Lady Liberty that was named companion tree to The Senator. It is high in diameter, and is estimated to be 2000 years old; another one of the oldest trees in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15293588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293588", "title": "Three Towers Hike", "text": "Three Towers Hike\n\nThe Three Towers Hike is a Scouting-organised, downland hiking competition held annually in early spring, covering footpaths in West Berkshire and South Oxfordshire. It is organised by a team of scout leaders from Reading Central, Loddon, Taceham Hundred and Pang Valley Scout Districts, all of which are within the Scout County of Royal Berkshire of the Scout Association.\n\nIt is a competitive event, without an overnight camp (although teams must be equipped to bivouac if the conditions are severe enough to warrant it). It was first held as a senior event (Walkers over the age of 18) but now includes three other age groups.\n\nThe hike usually takes place on the second or third Saturday in April, but this may vary depending on the timing of Easter. The event accepts registration from 1 November the previous year.\n\nThe first Three Towers Hike took place during the 1970s, when only the Senior event was available. Originally based around the North and West of Reading, the hike gets its name from the three large water towers that were passed.\n\nIn the 1980s the route was significantly altered to include more rural paths in West Berkshire and South Oxfordshire.\n\nSince its beginning, the Hike has run every year with few exceptions, the most notable being in 2001 due to Foot and Mouth concerns.\n\nOfficially not against the hike rules at the time, one team on the 2002 Junior Event swam across the River Thames during the race after finding themselves several miles up stream of the nearest bridge. The team then went on to complete the event but were later disqualified and a new hike rule was added to prohibit this in future.\n\nThe Hike currently comprises four different competitions, each of different lengths and following a slightly different route. The competitions are identified below.\n\n\n\nThe hike does not prescribe a specific route for hikers to use. It publishes a series of checkpoints from which a navigation exercise will deduce the best route to take. In most cases there is usually one obvious path, however, there are some sections where a choice can be made by the navigator.\n\n\nRecords do not include times before 2003.\n\n\nThe Three Towers Hike has adopted the Scout Association's branding style including the use of the SerifBlack font family in Scout Purple and Green. Its self-developed i.HIKE brand has raised the event's visibility and is now recognisable as part of the hike's identification.\n\nThe Three Towers Hike's tagline is \"Outdoors, Challenge, Adventure\". This was created to convey the core values of the competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4148834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4148834", "title": "Torso (Image Comics)", "text": "Torso (Image Comics)\n\nTorso is a true crime limited series graphic novel written by Brian Michael Bendis and Marc Andreyko, with art and lettering by Brian Michael Bendis. It is based on the true story of the Cleveland Torso Murderer, and the efforts of the famous lawman Eliot Ness and his band of the \"Untouchables\" to capture him.\n\nBendis was initially inspired to write the novel after reading the files about the murders. As a Cleveland native, Bendis wrote the novel to pay homage to his hometown. Together with co-writer Andreyko, they crafted the comic with various historical photographs and clippings from the era. After its release, the graphic novel was critically well-received by the comic book community and elevated Bendis' career in the industry. The graphic novel was originally published by Image Comics and later reprinted under Marvel's Icon imprint. Since then, various attempts to adapt the novel into film have been proposed.\n\n\"Torso\" was originally published as a six-issue limited series by Image Comics. Bendis envisioned the comic as a historical true story which he turned into a graphic novel. \"Torso\" was written during Bendis' time as a struggling writer in his hometown Cleveland. His inspiration came while working as a cartoonist in the Cleveland Plain Dealer, where his editor gave him access to the Cleveland Torso Murders files. The files contained all of the visual evidences and testimonies, such as photographs, interviews and newspaper excerpts for Bendis to create the novel. His particular inspiration was that of a picture of a coroner examining a dismembered leg with a magnifying glass, which he described as \"the opposite of CSI.\" Besides the archives, Bendis and Mark also took information from Eliot Ness' own written interviews. He surmised their work during an interview:\n\nIn creating the atmosphere of the comic, Marc used historical photographs and documents combined with his black-and-white artwork to tell a unique noire-like story. Bendis and Andreyko presented their story in a straightforward cinematic fashion, with the occasional use of silent and repeated panels and sparse dialogue to create tension. The use of photography and clippings in the comic is also focused upon, with Marc's intention of presenting it like a film comic, creating a tone of realism. Bendis also provided the art and lettering, as well as his trademark \"sharp and contrast\" dialogue he would later use in his future projects.\n\n\"Torso\" tells the story of the real life \"Torso Murderer\", a serial killer who was active during 1934 to 1938. He received his nickname because he left only the torsos of his victims. Without fingerprints or dental records, these victims were very difficult to identify in a time before DNA testing. The investigator on the case was Eliot Ness, Cleveland Safety Director and former head of the Untouchables.\n\nThe series was collected in a trade paperback, \"Torso: A True Crime Graphic Novel\" (), in 2001, and also published by Image. Marvel Comics reformatted and reprinted the comic book in its \"Icon\" imprint in March 2012.\n\nAfter its release, \"Torso\" was met with critical acclaim from both critics and consumers alike. The graphic novel won the 1999 Eisner Award for \"Comic Book Excellence, Talent Deserving of Wider Recognition\". \"Torso\" was nominated for an International Horror Guild award for best graphic story and for 3 International Eagle Awards. The graphic novel elevated both Bendis and Marc's careers in the comic book industry, which soon led Bendis being discovered and recruited by Marvel as well as solidifying his reputation as a crime writer. \"Comic Book Resources\" called it \"one of the great crime comics of the late 20th Century.\"\n\nToday, the graphic novel is considered as one of the best of its genre. \"Comics Alliance\" listed the graphic novel in its \"8 of the Best Noir Comics\", calling it a \"an engaging and — unsurprisingly — genuinely creepy story.\" \"Top Tenz\" ranked in at #4 in its list \"Top 10 Crime Comics\", describing it as a \"stunning and chilling examination of one of America’s great unsolved crime sprees.\" Jesse Schedeen from IGN ranked \"Torso\" at #5 in her \"9 Great Murder Mystery Comics\", stating that it \"used these real-world events to weave a great mystery with a dramatic climax.\"\n\nOn January 12, 2006, \"Variety\" reported that director David Fincher would be directing a film version of \"Torso\" for Miramax. The producers are Bill Mechanic, Don Murphy, Todd McFarlane and Terry Fitzgerald. Screenwriter Ehren Kruger is set to adapt the series. In a September 27, 2009 unedited episode of Fanboy Radio, Bendis confirmed the Torso film has been canceled by Miramax and the rights have reverted to Bendis. The story of the failed attempt to make the film was told in Bendis's autobiographical graphic novel, \"Fortune and Glory\".\n\nIn 2013, new plans for an adaptation was greenlit, with David Lowery hired to write and direct the film. Bendis said that while the projects had its ups and downs over the last 15 years, he’s never lost belief in its cinematic potential.\n\nOn March 12, 2017, \"Deadline\" reported that director Paul Greengrass will direct and produce \"Ness\" for Paramount Pictures with producers John Davis, Greg Goodman and John Fox producing from Davis Entertainment with David Engel from Circle of Confusion. Screenwriter Brian Helgeland is set to write the script.\n\n"}
{"id": "2668457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2668457", "title": "United States House of Representatives elections, 1788 and 1789", "text": "United States House of Representatives elections, 1788 and 1789\n\nElections to the United States House of Representatives for the 1st Congress were held in 1788 and 1789, coinciding with the election of George Washington as first President of the United States. The dates and methods of election were set by the states. Actual political parties did not yet exist, but new members of Congress were informally categorized as either \"pro-Administration\" (i.e., pro-Washington and pro-Hamilton) or \"anti-Administration\".\n\nThe first session of the first House of Representatives came to order in Federal Hall, New York City on March 4, 1789, with only thirteen members present. The requisite quorum (thirty members out of fifty-nine) was not present until April 1, 1789. The first order of business was the election of a Speaker of the House. On the first ballot, Frederick Muhlenberg was elected Speaker by a majority of votes. The business of the first session was largely devoted to legislative procedure rather than policy.\n\nIn the 18th and much of the 19th century, each state set its own date for elections. In many years, elections were even held after the legal start of the Congress, although typically before the start of the first session. In the elections for the 1st Congress, five states held elections in 1788, electing a total of 29 Representatives, and six held elections in 1789, electing a total of 30 Representatives. Two states, North Carolina and Rhode Island, did not ratify the Constitution until November 21, 1789 and May 29, 1790 respectively, well after the Congress had met for the first time, and, consequently, elected representatives late, in 1790, leaving North Carolina unrepresented in the 1st session and Rhode Island in the 1st and 2nd sessions of a total of 3 sessions.\n\nSix seats were filled late because North Carolina and Rhode Island ratified the Constitution late. One pro-Administration representative resigned and the seat remained open at the end of the Congress.\n\nThis was the first special election to the United States House of Representatives.\n\nDelaware had a single representative. The election was held January 7, 1789. Under the law at the time, each voter cast two votes for representative, at least one of whom had to be from a different county.\n\nGeorgia had a mixed at-large/district system for the 1st Congress. Representatives were elected at-large, but for three district-based seats.\n\nMaryland had a mixed district/at-large system similar to Georgia's. Under Maryland law, \"candidates were elected at-large but had to be residents of a specific district with the statewide vote determining winners from each district.\"\n\nMassachusetts required a majority vote, necessitating additional votes if no one won a majority. This was necessary in 4 of the districts.\n\nIn the fourth district, \n\nIn the fifth district, \n\nIn the eighth district, \n\nNew Hampshire law required a winning candidate to receive votes from a majority of voters (16.7% of votes). No candidate won such a majority on the first ballot, so a second ballot was held February 2, 1789.\n\nThe election of all four representatives was contested, but the records that explained the precise grounds on which the election was contested have been lost due to the burning of Washington in the War of 1812. It is known to have related to questions of regularity and procedure. All four representatives' elections were ruled valid.\n\nNew York held elections to the 1st Congress on March 3 and 4, 1789. At the time, districts were unnumbered. They are retroactively numbered in this section.\nNorth Carolina ratified the Constitution late and thus elected representatives to the 1st Congress in 1790.\n\nPennsylvania held elections to the 1st Congress on November 26, 1788. For this first election (and again in 1792 election for the 3rd Congress), Pennsylvania chose to elect all of its representatives on a single statewide general ticket, an attempt by the pro-Administration-majority legislature to prevent anti-Administration candidates from winning seats.\n\nRhode Island ratified the Constitution late and thus elected representatives to the 1st Congress in 1790.\n\nIn the , William L. Smith (Pro-Administration)'s election was contested by David Ramsay (Pro-Administration) who claimed that Smith had not been a citizen for the required 7 years at the time of his election, the House Committee on Elections ruled in Smith's favor \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25915827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25915827", "title": "Verano de Escándalo (1999)", "text": "Verano de Escándalo (1999)\n\nThe 1999 Verano de Escándalo (Spanish for \"Summer of Scandal\") was the third annual \"Verano de Escándalo\" professional wrestling show promoted by AAA. The show took place on September 17, 1999, in Mexico City, Mexico. The Main event featured a Steel Cage Match \"Lucha de Apuestas\" where the loser would have to unmask or have his hair shaved off. The team of Heavy Metal and Octagón faced Jaque Mate and Kick Boxer.\n\nFirst held during the summer of 1997 the Mexican professional wrestling, company AAA began holding a major wrestling show during the summer, most often in September, called \"Verano de Escándalo\" (\"Summer of Scandal\"). The \"Verano de Escándalo\" show was an annual event from 1997 until 2011, then AAA did not hold a show in 2012 and 2013 before bringing the show back in 2014, but this time in June, putting it at the time AAA previously held their \"Triplemanía\" show. In 2012 and 2013 \"Triplemanía XX\" and \"Triplemanía XXI\" was held in August instead of the early summer. The show often features championship matches or \"Lucha de Apuestas\" or bet matches where the competitors risked their wrestling mask or hair on the outcome of the match. In \"Lucha Libre\" the \"Lucha de Apuetas\" match is considered more prestigious than a championship match and a lot of the major shows feature one or more \"Apuesta\" matches. The 1999 \"Verano de Escándalo\" show was the third show in the series.\n\nThe \"Verano de Escándalo\" show featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "12516459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12516459", "title": "Wicked Winter Renaissance Faire", "text": "Wicked Winter Renaissance Faire\n\nWicked Faire was a yearly adult-themed fair with programming geared towards ages 16 and up. The last Wicked Faire, Wicked Faire: Reborn, was February 2-4, 2018 in Piscataway, NJ. This event was created by and run by Widdershins, INC, d/b/a Jeff Mach Events. \n\n\nIn January 2018, former volunteers and employees of Wicked Faire and other events organized by Jeff Mach Events (JME) accused JME founder Jeff Mach of sexual misconduct and questionable practices surrounding volunteer and employee compensation and event safety. \n\nA new company, Silver Phoenix Society, attempted to purchase the intellectual property from Widdershins. Tammy Shipps, the president of Silver Phoenix and one of the panel presenters at Wicked Faire: Reborn, purchased the IP on March 13, 2018. \n"}
{"id": "56801839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56801839", "title": "Willey House, New Hampshire", "text": "Willey House, New Hampshire\n\nThe Willey House at Crawford Notch in the White Mountains of New Hampshire is associated principally with a tragedy of August 28, 1826, in which seven members of the Willey family and two other people died. Out of that event came a boost to the nascent tourism industry of the area.\n\nThe Willey House was originally known as Old Notch House and had been built in 1793. Ethan Crawford acquired it in 1823 for use as an inn to accommodate his growing business as a mountain guide, and in 1826 it was occupied by a family headed by Samuel J. Willey Jr.\n\nNorthern New England experienced a drought in the summer of 1826, which ended with the arrival of a terrific storm on the evening of August 28. Flooding followed, with the valley at Crawford Notch being one place that suffered the consequences. All but two of the bridges on the turnpike that ran through the notch were destroyed, trees suffered a similar fate and the high sides of the valley were gouged by swollen streams and landslides. The Willey House was a scene of desolation due to the effects of an avalanche on a mountain behind it. The house, however, had survived in an island of calm because the surging debris split either side on a low ridge and then unified again beyond it.\n\nLocal residents, including Ethan Crawford and the Reverend Benjamin G. Willey, Samuel's brother, visited the house in the aftermath of the storm. It was empty, with signs that there may have been a rapid departure from it, such as unmade beds, clothes strewn around and ashes in the fireplace. There was an open Bible on the table. A search of the devastated area over the next few days revealed the bodies of the Willey parents, two of their daughters and two hired hands; the remains of the other three Willey children were never found. Some livestock had also been killed, including those in a now-destroyed stable.\n\nThere followed various theories as to what had happened, the most likely of which is that the occupants abandoned the property as the avalanche approached but in doing so, in darkness, they unwittingly put themselves in the path of it around the point where the flow reunited.\n\nNews of the disaster spread, initially through many regional newspapers, and also through media such as Theodore Dwight's guidebook, \"The Northern Traveller\". People began to visit the site, drawn to the scene of devastation, human tragedy and the miraculous survival of the structure itself. As well as boosting a nascent tourist industry in the area, in which the Crawford family had already been playing a significant part, it became a source of inspiration for artists and writers. The peak on the western wall of the notch became known as Mount Willey.\n\nDona Brown believes that the artist Thomas Cole and other visitors, such as Nathaniel Hawthorne, used the interest in the tragedy to further their careers, deliberately painting and writing about an area that had suddenly gained national attention. Ethan Crawford, too, exploited it by, for example, ensuring that the Willey House was well signposted. The Crawfords had been directly affected by the storm, with Ethan's property suffering 1000 of damage and his father's farm being wrecked almost beyond repair, but they were also affected in a positive manner with the subsequent influx of tourists. In 1828, Ethan began construction of a new inn, called the Notch House, at the northern end of the notch, appointing his brother Thomas to run it. The business opened in 1829 and attracted many notable people, including Ralph Waldo Emerson, Hawthorne, Henry David Thoreau and Daniel Webster.\n\nHawthorne was inspired by the Willey tragedy to write a short story titled \"The Ambitious Guest\" in 1835, while Cole noted in his diary that \"The site of the Willey House, with its little patch of green in the gloomy desolation, very naturally recalled to mind the horrors of the night when the whole family perished beneath an avalanche of rocks and earth.\"\n\nHorace Fabyan, who was a merchant and a speculator in the emerging tourism industry, took control of the Willey House in 1845 and converted it into a 50-bed hotel. Visitor interest in the effects of the disastrous storm waned over time, despite the efforts of people such as Benjamin Willey to maintain and profit by it by offering guided tours of the house for a fee. It had become old news and nature had taken it course to cover much of the scenic damage.\n\nThe site of the house and the landslide is now an interpretive center within Crawford Notch State Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "10610799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10610799", "title": "Wing Ding", "text": "Wing Ding\n\nWing Ding, as of 2014, has returned as an annual concert held by WXRX 104.9 FM, in Rockford, Illinois, during Memorial Day weekend, that started years ago as a chicken wing competition but later evolved into a full blown rock concert. It started in 1993. Notable bands that have played over the years are Shinedown, Seether, Saliva, Breaking Benjamin, Nickelback, Three Doors Down, Three Days Grace, Buckcherry, Hinder, Black Stone Cherry and many others. \n\nIt has been announced that Wing Ding will return May 25, 2014 to the Rockford Speedway. Gates open at 11, music at noon.\n\nThe 16th annual Wing Ding took place on May 24, 2009 at The Bell Bowl at the Chicago Rockford International Airport in Rockford, IL. The guest host was Coolio. Wing Ding was cancelled until further notice after the 2009 show. \n\n\nThe 15th annual Wing Ding took place on May 25, 2008 at the Rockford Speedway. Tone Lōc made a special appearance to play a few songs.\n\n\nThe 14th annual Wing Ding took place on May 27, 2007 at the Rockford Speedway, and was sponsored by Hooters. Early estimates show that roughly 20,000 people came to Wing Ding this year, which is roughly 8,000 more than 2006. Admission was only $10.\n\n\nThe 13th annual Wing Ding (First year at the Rockford Speedway)\n\n\nThe 12th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\nThe 11th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\nThe 10th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\nThe 9th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\n\nThe 8th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\n\nThe 7th annual Wing Ding (at Davis Park)\n\n"}
