{"id": "51113306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51113306", "title": "1910 Wisła Kraków season", "text": "1910 Wisła Kraków season\n\nThe 1910 season was Wisła Kraków 5th year as a club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49513241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49513241", "title": "19th Century Drinking Horn", "text": "19th Century Drinking Horn\n\nOn display in the Art Institute of Chicago, in the African Art and Indian Art of the Americas, is a 19th-century drinking horn. Originally from the Kuba Kingdom, the drinking horn is made out of wood, iron, and copper alloy. Drinking horns were usually a gift to the friends and family of kings or given to a warrior.\n\nThe Kuba Kingdom, founded in the 17th century, is located in the Democratic Republic of Congo. It held nine provinces and chiefdoms were a part of that society. They were surrounded by other tribes such as the Yaka, Suku, Pende, etc. The people from the Kuba kingdom were also known as the Bakuba. They were skilled at hunting, farming, and fishing. One of the more important aspects of the Kuba kingdom was their religion. They were heavily based on the spirits of mother earth and those of their past kings. When it came to their religious ceremonies, the way someone was buried depended on the items placed in the coffin. For the wealthy, they had several items such as delicate figurines, masks, and drinking cups placed in their coffin. The detail and quality of the items told where they were in the social hierarchy.\n\nThe Kuba kingdom was located in what is known today as the Democratic Republic of Congo. The kingdom was known for their supernatural powers and spiritual beliefs. Like many kingdoms, royalty was one of the most important parts. Besides having one ruler, they had 19 other rulers underneath the king that managed the 19 groups in Kuba. One of the many ways that these kings showed their status and power was by the amount of money they spent. When it comes to drinking horns, kings would give them out to their family and friends to show their wealth and generosity. \nDrinking horns were one of the many objects that showed class. The more elegant and intrinsic the design, the higher in society they were. The patterns and material made for the drinking horn was an important aspect to show status. Drinking horns were typically used to drink palm wine. The intake of this beverage is an example of something that was done with events held by the king. This may also be an event in which the king shows his generosity and hands out gifts. \nThe drinking horn is in the shape of a buffalo horn that symbolizes the status of the warrior that received it. The design of the horn includes patterns that are in a geometrical shape, a crocodile, and a hand. This specific drinking horn has an attachment made out of iron that can be attached to a belt that the warrior would wear. The fact that the drinking horn has this accessory and option to be attached to a belt shows a high level of status within not only the Kuba society, but also the warrior community.\n\nThis specific drinking horn was first owned by object collector, Raoul Blondiau. He was a collector and diplomat who was based in Brussels. Blondiau is a well-known collector that is mentioned several times in many different institutions. Blondiau then sold the drinking horn to the Theatre Arts Monthly in New York City. It was a part of the Harlem Museum of African Art Travelling Exhibit at that time. During the ownership of the Theater Arts Monthly, it was lent to the Chicago Children’s Museum for Negro in Art Week. It was lent during the month of December. Being a part of a traveling exhibit, the object moved around. At one point, it was lent to the Memorial Art Gallery in Rochester, New York.\nIn the Art Institute of Chicago’s website, it is said to have been gifted to the museum by G. F. Harding in 1928. No information has been found concerning G. F. Harding.\n\nClarke, John Hendrik. \"The Old Congo.\" John Henrik Clarke Virtual Museum. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.nbufront.org/MastersMuseums/JHClarke/Contemporaries/LumumbaCongo.html>.\n\n\"Kuba - Art & Life in Africa - The University of Iowa Museum of Art.\" Kuba. University of Iowa Museum of Art, n.d. Web. <https://africa.uima.uiowa.edu/peoples/show/Kuba>\n\n\"Kuba Cups - RAND AFRICAN ART.\" Kuba Cups - RAND AFRICAN ART. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.randafricanart.com/Kuba_cup_3.html>.\n\nLowes, Sara, Nathan Nunn, James A. Robinson, and Jonathan Weigel. \"The Evolution of Culture and Institutions: Evidence from the Kuba Kingdom.\" Autocratic, Democratic, and Optimal Government (n.d.): n. pag. 2 Mar. 2014. Web\n\nWeston, Bonnie E. \"Kuba - Rand African Art.\" Kuba - Rand African Art. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.randafricanart.com/kuba_Ngady_aMwaash.html>.\n"}
{"id": "50389786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50389786", "title": "2001 in Estonian television", "text": "2001 in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of Estonian television related events from 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28330615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28330615", "title": "2010 Sahel famine", "text": "2010 Sahel famine\n\nA large-scale, drought-induced famine occurred in Africa's Sahel region and many parts of the neighboring Sénégal River Area from February to August 2010. It is one of many famines to have hit the region in recent times.\n\nThe Sahel is the ecoclimatic and biogeographic zone of transition between the Sahara desert in the north of Africa and the Sudanian savannas in the south, covering an area of 3,053,200 square kilometers. It is a transitional ecoregion of semi-arid grasslands, savannas, steppes, and thorn shrublands.\n\nThe neighboring Sénégal River Area contains various vegetation types and covers parts or all of Mauritania, Mali, Senegal and Guinea. It has also had very low rainfall over the last year according to the UN, NGOs and the Senegal River Basin Development Authority. Sudan set a new temperature record of 49.7 °C (121.3 °F) on 22 June, in the town of Dongola.\n\nFamine and food shortages were present in the following Sahelian countries during 2010 after heavy rains hit the region in late 2009, followed by a heat wave: Sudan, the Niger, northern Nigeria, northern Cameroon, Chad, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Mali, as well as in parts of the neighboring Sénégal River Area.\n\nIn December 2009, both USAID and several NGOs predicted an increased food insecurity situation in more of the southern districts of Mali as compared to the same time the previous year.\n\nThe Western donor nations once theorised that the drought in the Sahel primarily was caused by humans over-using natural resources in the region through overgrazing, deforestation and poor land management. In the late 1990s, climate model studies suggested that large-scale climate changes were also triggers for the drought.\n\nIn the early 2000s, after the phenomenon of global dimming was discovered, some speculatively suggested, that the drought was likely caused by air pollution generated in Eurasia and North America. The pollution changed the properties of clouds over the Atlantic Ocean, disturbing the monsoons and shifting the tropical rains southwards. Global dimming, the blocking of sunlight by man-made particulates, has been identified as one culprit for a decades-long drought across sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nA 2006 study by NOAA scientists Rong Zhang and Thomas L. Delworth suggests that the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation/(MAO) plays a leading role. An AMO warm phase strengthens the summer rainfall over Sahel, while a cold phase reduces it. The AMO entered a warm phase in 1995 and, by assuming the presence of a theoretical 70-year cycle (following peaks in ≈1880 and ≈1950), it would probably peak around about 2020.\n\nThe Sahel's farmers have been largely cleared of blame for the 19th century's Sahel droughts. The Sahel region's rains in the 1930s and 2040s were caused by the recent warming of the Indian Ocean, rather than by over-farming causing environmental degradation as previously assumed, according to a new joint Scidev/UN study. With both a 3.5 C. rise in the Niger's temperature over the last decade and with irrigated land accounting for only 0.1% of the Niger's inhabitable land, regular famine crisis is inevitable in most years. Acute water shortages, which are common in the region's harsh weather, make irrigation systems all the more important for the local farmers.\n\nThe Lake Chad basin straddles the borders of both Niger, Nigeria, Cameroon and Chad. The lake is situated above sea level and is diminishing over time due to lack of rain water and major rivers running into it. According to the UN the marshy lake shrank as much as by 95% from about 1963 to 1998 yet they also state that \"The 2007 (satellite) image shows significant improvement over previous years\". Lake Chad is economically important, providing water to more than 20 million people living in the four countries that surround it (Chad, Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria) on the edge of the Sahara Desert. The plant Typha Australis (or the big cattail) is cutting off water supplies in the Lake Chad Basin, and has slashed available water supplies in the Chad's region. The only protected area is Lake Chad Game Reserve, which covers half of the area next to the lake that belongs to Nigeria. The whole lake has been declared a Ramsar site of international importance.\n\nLake Chad's role in the Sahel famine has attracted attention partly due to the desertification that is increasingly claiming a huge swath not just of the Sahel region but also the entire African continent. According to a United Nations environment program, in 2002, this phenomenon, which is a process where the soil loses the capacity to retain necessary moisture, has covered nearly half of Africa. It was revealed that the Sahel region is one of the areas that are worst affected.\n\nThe problem is also highlighted by the discovery of fossil pollens indicating that, in ancient times, the shores of Lake Chad supported a well-watered savanna, which contributed to a lesser level of aridity in the Sahel area. It was found that around 3,000 B.C., the Sahel averaged 650 millimeters of rainfall a year compared to an average of 350 millimeters recorded today. Given the issue of desertification, even if Lake Chad was not directly a cause of the famine, its potential demise is expected to further aggravate the problem. There are studies that show that the incidence of famine is reportedly related to the delicate seasonal variations in the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ).\n\nThe shrinking of Lake Chad is blamed on the long droughts as well as the uptick in human activities such as the use of the lake's water for irrigation, the destruction of wooded areas for firewood, and the shift from the cultivation of corn and wheat to rice as the staple crop.\n\nIn the 1960s, a plan was proposed to divert the Ubangi River into Lake Chad. The copious amount of water from the Ubangi would revitalize the dying Lake Chad and provide livelihood in fishing and enhanced agriculture to tens of millions of central Africans and Sahelians. Inter-basin water transfer schemes were proposed in the 1980s and 1990s by Nigerian engineer J. Umolu (ZCN Scheme) and Italian firm Bonifica (Transaqua Scheme). In 1994, the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) proposed a similar project and at a March 2008 Summit, the Heads of State of the LCBC member countries committed to the diversion project. In April 2008, the LCBC advertised a request for proposals for a World Bank-funded feasibility study.\n\nCotton and groundnuts are two of Chad's four major cash crops. Mali's major cash crops are peanuts and cotton. Mali's cotton production has grown from 500,000 tonnes in 1997 to a record 635,000 tonnes in 2003, which has pleased the African Association of Cotton Producers, but has also led to a claim that cash crops are being put before food and fodder crops in Mali, Burkina Faso and Chad.\n\nMany of the world's countries, including many in Sub-saharan Africa, the Middle East and South East Asia, have seen a sharp rise in population since the end of the Cold War. The fear is that high population numbers are putting further strain on natural resources, food supplies, fuel supplies, employment, housing, etc.; in some of the less fortunate countries. The population of Chad has, for example, ultimately grown from 6,279,921 in 1993 to 10,329,208 in 2009, further straining its resources. Nigeria is witnessing a similar growth in population, strained resources and a possible over-population problem in the near future.\n\nThe situation was most acute in northern, western and central Africa. Refugees from places like the Sudan have helped further strain the resources of neighboring states like the Chad and Egypt. The nation is also host to roughly 255,000 refugees from Sudan's Darfur region, and about 77,000 refugees from the Central African Republic, whilst approximately 188,000 Chadians have been displaced by their own civil war and famines, have either fled to either the Sudan, the Niger or, more recently, Libya.\n\nOn 25 August a French aid worker was kidnapped in Chad. The kidnapping of foreigners along the Chad/Darfur border became more frequent in 2009. A French NGO worker was taken and then murdered on 29 October 2009, and an unidentified Red Cross worker was captured on 10 November 2009. Many NGOs and charities have begun to restrict the areas covered by their aid work in Niger, Chad, and Sudan due to the ever-present risk of bandits and kidnappers. The organizations are thus pulling out in fear of their workers' lives.\n\nMost international aid agencies have been withdrawing workers from some areas of the Sahel, due to the regional kidnapping crisis. Niger's government spokesman Mahamane Lawali Danda told the B.B.C. that the pullout was a surprise to him since no one had told him or his government that Niger was on the list of dangerous 'kidnapper infested' pariah nations, along with Chad, Darfur and Sudan. Strangely, Mauritania and Mali were not on the list of dangerous nations, despite several al-Qaeda lead kidnappings in both during 2009.\n\n11 January saw an emerging famine situation in south eastern Sudan according to the UN, NGOs, the EU and various Charities.\n\nThe government of Niger says 7,800,000 risk starvation in 2010 as heavy drought and high heat hit Niger, Burkina Faso, Mali, Chad and northern Nigeria on both 27 and 28 January and was estimated to need about $220,000,000 million this year in food and agricultural aid. The EU's ECHO aid department said of signs of food shortages were in Niger and spreading to neighbors such as Burkina Faso, Mali, Chad and northern Nigeria as 15,000,000 are estimated to face a chronic food shortage in Niger. The EU and UN also put out a famine alert for Niger, Burkina Faso, Mali, Chad and northern Nigeria and began to appeal for aid on the 28th. The EU, China and Russia stopped giving Niger aid in 2009 after President Mamadou Tandja defied UN, EU and worldwide criticism over extending his term in office.\n\nThe UN, NGOs and charities warned of heavy food insecurity in Southern Sudan throughout February due to an emerging famine and the ongoing conflict between Misseriya nomad in the Southern Kordofan department. The rainfall was reported at an all-time low in Mauritania and neighboring parts of Senegal during most of February and early March.\n\nThe EU warns of a pending Sahel famine centered upon Niger, Burkina Faso and Chad on 1 February.\n\nHuman Rights Watch said that Al Qaeda should stop targeting African civilians and aid workers on 16 March.\n\nA drought was confirmed to have hit parts of Burkina Faso on 10 March, by USAID and the UN.\n\nOn 13 March 2010 the UN, NGOs, the EU and various charities put out a famine alert for parts of southern Sudan.\n\nOn 15 March 2010 Britain's Save The Children charity launched an appeal as 840,000 Nigerians are confirmed to be in imminent risk of a famine.\n\nOn 17 March 2010, a famine was declared in Mao in Chad's sand-swept Kanem region.\n\nOn 23 March 2010, major sandstorms hit Mauritania, Senegal, the Gambia, Guinea Bissau, Guinea and inland Sierra Leone. Another hit southern Algeria, inland Mauritania, Mali and northern Côte d’Ivoire at the same time.\n\nDuring April and June, Islamic Relief (IR) sent aid workers to the North Kordofan to help improve their 16-year-old Um Dam and North Kordofan Water Project (NKWP). The UN, NGOs, charities and the Sudanese government reported that food security was a major concern in South Sudan and would stay at risk until the rainy season in September.\n\nBy 8 April 2010, starving children and elders filled the wards of a hospital in Akobo, Sudan. Several aid groups like Save the Children and Medair found out that 46% of children in the region were malnourished. The U.N. blamed two years of failed rainfall and the ongoing tribal clashes in the region for helping to create the humanitarian crisis in southern Sudan. The World Food Programme(WFP) was feeding 80,000 (up from 20,000 since April 2009) and the U.N. says 4,300,000 people in southern Sudan need food aid.\n\nOn 23 April 2010, said Nigerien Culture Minister Aminata Takoubakoyea, there was a reported food supply deficit of 119,700 tonnes and a fodder supply deficit of 16,000,000 tonnes. Niger's leading musicians and singers held a charity concert in Niamey to assist.\n\nOn 1 May 2010, the West African nation of Chad was on the verge of a nationwide famine as drought, armed conflict, and an influx of Darfur refugees all contributed to a chronic food shortage that now affects 2,000,000 people (20% of the country's total population). Various aid groups, NGOs and charities said a catastrophic famine could hit the country in the near future if food relief does not arrive soon. The UN warned that a famine had hit the town of Mao in Chad's Kanem region.\n\nThe city of Niamey, Niger took in refugees from Tillabéri department 12 days before, after they turned up hoping the city would help them. By 3 May 2010, the towns of Kongomé, Zinder, Tanout and Dalli were the worst hit by the drought.\n\nMorocco gives a short term cash loan to both the Niger and Mali.\n\nNGOs and Charities report famine conditions Kindal region on the 5th.\n\nOn 12 and 26 May 2010, both Mauritania, the Sénégal River Area and neighboring parts of both Senegal and Mali faced both drought and famine.\n\nOn 14 May 2010, USAID issued a food shortage alert for the Kordofan states.\n\nSeven died of dehydration in Ghaidi Magha, Mauritania, near the Malian border on 18 May 2010.\n\nAfrol News reported on 25 May that about 2,000,000 Chadians were at risk of having a famine occur in their regions after the combined effects of 2 years of drought and pestilence had ruined their harvest yet again.\n\nOn 27 and 28 May 2010, Mali and Niger faced a famine situation in their northern territories. The Kidal, Timboktu and Gao had their crops and livestock die off. Gao’s historic nomad market had virtually no food stuffs or animal fodder in it.\n\n31 May saw Chad embroiled in a fiscal controversy. A 12-metre statue of a horseman, the Rond-point de la Grande Armée, in the capital N'djamena, cost over $3,000,000. Both local critics, NGOs and overseas donor nations all wondered where the money had come from and thought it would have been better spent on buying food and irrigation equipment.\n\nNGOs, various charities and the UN warned of heavy food shortages and food insecurity in Sudan's Blue Nile, Kassala, Janub Darfur, South Kordofan and North Kordofan departments.\n\nDehydration was reported to have killed one person in Niger, while others in the region were at risk of water shortages on 1 June.\n\nSevere drought caused to 10,000,000 to go seriously short on as the Eastern Sahel crisis increases and local food prices surge on 3 June. Niger has 7,100,00 victims, Chad has 2,000,000 victims and other country have 900,000 victims in total. Niger, Chad, the eastern parts of Mali and northern Cameroon have also been badly affected by the failed rains and scorching heat, according to the UN World Food Programme. The WFP, which plans to assist 3,600,000 people in the coming months and said the crisis is expected to last at least until the next harvest in September 2010. The British charity Save the Children, launched an emergency appeal for Niger. Starving families were reported as either have travelled more than 600 miles to reach the capital Niamey to find work and/or beg for food, while others have crossed the border in Nigeria. A Similar situation is occurring in Chad as, desperate Chadians fled into southern Libya. Sudan and Burkina Faso were in a server food insecure situation too.\n\nOn 6 June 2010, growing famine in the Niger drove thousand of refugees into the Nigerian provinces of Kano and Katsina states. About 7,000,000 were facing a food shortage crisis in Niger.\n\nOn 7 June the Malian Government's Early Warning System released an estimate that 258,000 people were suffering from malnutrition in the towns of Gao and Kidal in April. Low and erratic rainfall in 2009 had occurred in Timbuktu, Kidal, and Gao, leading to a heavy regional drought. Hundreds of refugees moved to Gao from Burkina Faso and Niger, but were now too weak with starvation to leave Mali. The UN and Mali's government asked the developed nations for food aid and financial help in the face of the growing humanitarian crisis. The amount taken in Nigeria's harvest was down by 65,000 tonnes, whilst Niger had virtually nothing to take from their harvest.\n\nOn 8 June 2010, France food aid to and the European Union pledged an additional $28,000,000 million to help the millions of victims in the Niger, the Chad, Burkina Faso, and northern Nigeria. The charity Save the Children sent a team to Aguie in Niger, 850 km north east from the capitol Niamey, to set up an aid centre on the 8th and reported back on the 9th than 350,000 children faced severe malnutrition.\nOn 9 June, various groups of hydrologists, geologists and scientists in the Sahara desert used magnetic imaging technology when looking for aquifer sites for drilling water wells in Eastern Chad. Both northern Mali, southern Libya, southern Algeria, eastern Chad were being examined in part of an ongoing project to find viable drilling as the region's nations try to find new water sources to keep up with their growing demand. In recent years, roughly 300,000 refugees have arrived from both the war-torn Sudan and ailing Central African Republic, thus straining the already limited water supplies. Both Algeria, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger have shown a major interest in the further development of this resource lead local industry.\n\nOn 11 June 2010, the UN's World Food Organisation, Oxfam and MSF all warned of an impending famine in Mali, Mauritania, Burkina Faso, Niger and northern Nigeria. Niger's Diffa Region was of the most concern to the experts at hand.\n\nBy 13 June 2010, roughly 30% of crops failed in some of Niger's provinces.\n\nA new heat wave hit Niger on 21 June, causing an increased area of drought in that country as well. Niger's crops failed and famine occurred. About 350,000 faced starvation and 1,200,000 were at risk of famine according to the Niger's government, while the UN said roughly 2,000,000 Chadians, 7,000,0000 Nigerians and 1,000,000 other people of the Sahel region faced starvation and 200,000 Nigerian children were malnourished.\n\nIn over-heated Chad, the temperature reached 47.6 °C (117.7 °F) on 22 June in Faya-Largeau, breaking a record set in 1961 at the same location. Niger tied its highest temperature record set in 1998, on also 22 June, at 47.1 °C in Bilma. That record was broken the next day, on 23 June when Bilma hit 48.2 °C (118.8 °F). The hottest temperature recorded in Sudan was reached on 22 June, at 49.7 °C (121.3 °F) in Dongola, breaking a record set in 1987. Sudan's record temperature was matched on the 23rd too.\n\nOn 23 June the UN, WFP and various humanitarian agencies requested $190,700,000 million to enable them respond to the unfolding famine in Niger. The UN estimates that just under 50% of country's 7,100,000 people risked starving to death.\n\nOn 24 June the government of Niger admitted that it was suffering from a major famine and said aid workers and NGOs were now welcome. The government of the Ivory Coast had reported to various NGOs that it was struggling to control desertification and imminent drought conditions in parts of its northern savanna lands. Oxfam launch a £7,000,000 emergency appeal to try to help more than 800,000 of the most vulnerable people in Chad, Niger and Mali.\n26 June saw 1,600,000 Chadians facing food insecurity in the Bahr el Gazel Region, Batha Region, Guera Region, Hadjer-Lamis Region, Lac Region and the Kanem Region. About 604,000 people were benefiting from its assistance as a total 60% of families became victims of the famine in varying degrees according to the UN's World Food Programme (WFP). Chad appealed to donors for increased contribution to the international famine relief operation in Chad that received US$42,100,000 of a pledged total of US$65,000,000, to enable it continue all its relief work and charitable activities until the end of the year 2010. Cameroon also suffered from heavy desertification in the savanna regions of South Region, Centre Region, West Region, Northwest Region and Far North Region.\n\nJuly saw sporadic and small-scale food riots in Sudan's Blue Nile, Janub Darfur, South Kordofan and North Kordofan departments. The Muslim Hands charity set up an appeal and sent aid to Niger and Mali in July. It was the worst Niger famine since 1984, with 3,500,000 people starving.\n\nOn 6 July, the Methodist Relief and Development Fund (MRDF) aid experts said that more than 1,500,000 Nigerians were at risk of famine due to a month-long heat wave that was hovering over Niger, Mali, Mauritania and Morocco. A fund of about £20,000 was distributed to the crisis-hit countries of Niger, Mali, Burkina Faso and Mauritania.\n\nThe heat wave that left Morocco for the Iberian Peninsula on 11 July was attributed to the regional hot air currents that depart from the Sahara desert in Northern Africa at about 1,000 meters in altitude. This facilitated a movement in the hot air towards the Balkans and the Ukraine via the Straits of Gibraltar, Spain and Italy. Unusually hot weather was also reported in parts of Algeria on 11 July.\n\nOn 12 July 2010, a local goat farmer was killed and his small flock stolen by Chadian refugees in the South Darfur region of the Sudan. The UN's WFP body estimated that 2,500,000 were at risk of a famine breaking out in their part of Niger.\n\nOn 13 July, the USAID funded Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET), and the UN warned of a food supply shortage in northern Sudan, with increasing food insecurity focused on the war torn Darfur region and other neighboring areas. The deteriorating security situation in the conflict zone was predicted to reduce both productivity and peoples' access to local agricultural well, as well as disrupting the seasonal livestock migration. USAID/OFDA provided $133,200,000 to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) to help remedy the crisis in the three Darfur states. Concerns were also raised about the situation in Chad,\n\nThree years of famine and then the recent sandstorms devastated Niger on 14 July. Diarrhoea, starvation, gastroenteritis, malnutrition and respiratory diseases kill and sicken many children. The new military junta appealed for international food aid and has taken serious steps to call overseas help since coming to office in February 2010. Sudan witnessed minor food rioting in Southern Kordofan, Blue Nile, and Abyei as profiteering locals and merchants and Ugandan exporters took advantage of the shortages in order to heavily mark up their selling prices.\n\n15 July saw more border conflicts between the Nuer and the Dinka, further hindering aid workers in Southern Sudan.\n\nOn 17 July, Mohamed Béavogui, the Director of Western and Central Africa Division of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), called for more international help for the people of the Sahel, who had a 410,000 tons of cereals and 20,000 tons of fodder deficit. He also condemned the world for not doing enough to help the Sahel, but stopped short of Cheminade's idea of pumping water from the Zaire River into Lake Chad to reinvigorate its water supply and stop any further shrinkage.\n\nOn 24 July, the British Red Cross flew its logistics teams Bristol Airport to Niger to help the army and local officials with transportation. The relief effort has already been made possible by the response to the Red Cross's West Africa Crisis Appeal, which aims to raise £500,000. According to UN agencies, 200,000 children need treatment for malnutrition in Niger alone, as Oxfam put out an £7,000,000 appeal to cover both Chad and Niger.\n\nFrance sent unspecified food and cash aid to Mali on 25 July.\n\nOn 26 July the heat reached near-record levels over Chad and Niger, and about 20 had reportedly died in northern Niger of dehydration on 27 July.\n\n27 July also saw a critical situation occurring in northern Mali and Chad. About 8,000,0000 Nigerians, 1,600,000 Chadians and 500,000 Malians were on the verge of a major food shortage as the Nigerian journalist Tidiane Kassé said that by tackling the consequences rather than the causes would be a better form of long-term help for the region.\n\nOn 31 July, leading economists predicted that food prices, especially wheat, would rise in Chad as Russia ends exports due to a domestic drought destroying their wheat and barley harvests.\n\nOn 1 August, Gadabeji, Niger suffered 35 °C heat and drought. On 1 August, just under 12,000,000 people in Niger (approximately 80% of the nation's entire population) faced a food supply crisis and possibly even famine conditions. The Tillabéri region is 30 km from the capital, Niamey, on the road to the Saharan town of Timbuktu. Unusually severe rainfall destroyed and then rotted the farmers' crops. Basic food stuffs like maize, millet and sorghum were running out in West Africa's Sahel. Both Chad and northern Nigeria have a similar, but less severe problem.\n\nOn 3 August, Burkina Faso was hit by a drought, as 4,500,000 Burkinans and 6,700,000 Nigerians faced starvation. Human Rights Watch (HRW) said the Sudanese Nuer-Dinka war was hampering relief efforts and damaging agricultural output in parts of South Sudan.\n\n10 August saw an Aljazeera reporter say that 7,500,000 Nigerians were at risk of famine and 15,000,000 could face a famine across the Sahel.\n\nAn estimated 8,000,000 people faced famine conditions in Niger on 11 August. Senegal and Gambia sent food aid to the Niger.\n\nOn 12 August, Gianluca Ferrera, deputy director for the UN's World Food Programme in the Niger, said malnutrition and crop failures were at a record levels in 2010. Food shortages are affecting 12,000,000 people and 400,000 children face starvation. Food prices rose by about 300% since the crisis began and thus hardly any one can afford to buy the remaining food.\n\n14 August saw protests across Sénégal over concerns relating to the ruling party's poor governance in the face of recent floods, storms and power cuts across the country, along with the current heavy drought in Senegal's Sahel region.\n\n15 August had aid workers and their organizations warn of an imminent nationwide famine in Niger.\n\nOn 20 August, floods which were the worst for 80 years hit the Shale region. The U.N. warned that Niger, Chad, Burkina Faso, Cameroon and northern Nigeria are also in the grip of the worst regional food crisis since 2006. In the savannah Kano, Nigeria, over 2,000 families were displaced by floods and in the nearby Jigawa region, an entire village was evacuated due to heavy flooding. In Mauritania, a flood damaged bridges and many homes in the mountain town of Aioun. Heavy flooding was occurring around parts of lake Chad.\n\nMost international aid agencies withdraw workers due to the regional kidnapping crisis. Niger's government spokesman Mahamane Lawali Danda told the BBC that the pullout came as a surprise since no one had told his government Niger was on the list of dangerous 'kidnapper infested' pariah states, along with Chad, Darfur and Sudan. Mauritania and Mali were not on the list of dangerous nations, despite several al-Qaeda lead kidnappings during 2009.\n\nThe U.N. warned of mass starvation in Niger and Chad and Oxfam said people in the region were surviving on leaves and berries picked in the wild. 8,000,000 were said to be near starvation by both organisation. The UN estimated that up to 7,800,000 Nigeriens were affected by heavy food shortages. Cafod set up a £100,000 aid programme on 21 August.\n\n25 August had a French aid worker kidnapped in Chad. The kidnapping of foreigners along the Chad–Darfur border became more frequent in 2009. A French NGO worker was taken and then murdered on 29 October 2009, and an unidentified Red Cross worker was captured on 10 November 2009. Many NGOs and charities had started to restrict the areas covered by their aid work in Niger, Chad and Sudan, due to the ever-present risk of bandits and kidnapers.\n\nOn 28 August, charities and NGOs put out food shortage alerts for Niger. Heavy rain falls on the border of the CAR and the Chad.\n\n31 August saw 7,900,000 of Niger's 15,300,000 people in immediate risk of starvation and Gordon Brown MP making plans for a $100,000 charity speech on the development of irrigation and water schemes to increase cultivable land the Niger and the Chad. He was quoted to have said in the interview that:\n\nBut, today, where there is suffering without hope, we can prevent children dying painful, avoidable deaths\n\nOn 31 August Sudan's army reported that 3 Russian helicopter crew members had been abducted by gunmen in Nyala, capital of South Darfur, just hours after Samaritan's Purse aid worker Flavia Wagner who had been kidnapped 18 May was set free. She was taken from the South Darfurian village of Abu Ajura, along with two Sudanese colleagues who were also freed after a week. The governor of South Darfur, Abdel Hamid Kasha, Sudan foreign ministry spokesman Moawiya Osman and Samaritan's Purse's leader Franklin Graham, and the Russian ambassador to Chad welcomed Flavia's release, but condemned the kidnap of the three Russians and that of two Jordanian UNAMID police advisers in Darfur, on the 14th. Another Russian helicopter pilot was taken prisoner for four days after landing in South Darfur to take rebels' spokesmen to Chad for alleged peace talks.\n\nOn 1 September, aid agencies and NGOs called for aid to be given to Niger as 7,000,000 faced starvation.\n\n4 September had Cholera outbreaks kill 41 in Chad and one in Nigeria.\n\n8 September saw a Chinese CGC Overseas Construction Co. Ltd. oil worker kidnapped in Bahai inside Chad and took him to Sharq al-Teyna, in Sudan's Darfur region.\n\nOn 13 September the Prem Rawat Foundation gave $30,000 loan to pay for Niger to buy food aid for children of its nomadic tribal groups.\n\nOn 14 September heavy rainfall in central and southern Chad raised hopes that the major drought in Africa's Sahel region would be over by early 2011. 10,000,000 were near to starvation in the Sahel. The UN's WFP had estimated that Chad needs about 100,000 metric tonnes of food aid, but had only received 70,000 metric tonnes so far. Most of the Chadian need to sell more cereal crops to make enough money to repay their huge debts. farmers According to Jean Francois Caremel of the Action Against Hunger charity branch in Chad. As both Chad and Niger faced an improving situation due to heavy rain fall over these countries, but a major famine was still unfolding in other countries of West Africa's dry Sahelian region\n\n15 September had Sudanese and Chadian forces jointly searching for both the Chinese oil industry engineer taken on the 8th and a Chinese aid worker who was kidnapped from the same town on the morning of the 15th. Both the Chinese ambassador to Chad, the Chadian government and the Solidarity Action for Peace and Development NGO condemned the kidnappings.\n\n18 and 19 September In Hadejia, Nigeria, The flood victims sleep wherever they can, the men search for dry spots on the roads while women and children keep piling into their houses still standing as huge number of displaced people have returned to flood-hit villages in Northern Nigeria. Over two million people were affected by the flood waters and more than 50,000 families are still wandering homeless. Residential areas of the Kararar Rima village was also destroyed in the flood. Most of the houses were made of clay, so they easy dissolved in the flood water. As the rains fell the end of the pending famine looked close.\n\nThe famine was finally relieved, as floods hit Ghana, Niger, Nigeria and Benin in October 2010. Cotonou’s residents in Benin had to board canoes, on the 9th due to severe flooding. According to the UN, 680,000 people were homeless while more than 300,000 acres of crops had been destroyed and 81,000 livestock killed.\nFlooding began in mid-September when heavy rains caused the Niger River in Benin's north to overflow and break its banks. Rainfall continued across the country.\nHeavy rains caused the collapse of an already damaged dam in Ghana and displaced more than 700,000 people.\n\nAgainst a backdrop of conventional interventions through the state or markets, alternative initiatives have been pioneered to address the problem of food security. An example is the \"Community Area-Based Development Approach\" to agricultural development (\"CABDA\"), an NGO programme with the objective of providing an alternative approach to increasing food security in Africa. CABDA proceeds through specific areas of intervention such as the introduction of drought-resistant crops and new methods of food production such as agro-forestry. In an analysis of the programme by the Overseas Development Institute, CABDA's focus on individual and community capacity-building is highlighted. This enables farmers to influence and drive their own development through community-run institutions, bringing food security to their household and region.\n\nMali and Libya were also tapping into the ancient Sub-Saharan aquifer and Bas Saharan Basin as a source of drinking water, as of 2009 and 2008 respectively.\n\nOn 9 June 2010 various groups of hydrologists, geologists and scientists in the Sahara desert used magnetic imaging techniques when looking for sites in aquifers for drilling water wells in Eastern Chad. Northern Mali, southern Libya, southern Algeria, eastern Chad were being examined in part of an ongoing project to find viable drilling as the region's nations try to find new water sources to keep up with their growing demand. Algeria, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger have shown a major interest in the further development of this resource lead local industry, which could prove a valuable asset for nomads, local farmers and townsfolk alike in the years to come.\n\nThe Food Crises Prevention and Management Charter was validated on 11 August 2010, in the drought that hit Gambia. The signatory countries were from the Permanent Interstate Committee for drought control in the Sahel (CILLS) and West Africa Club (SWAC), and the Gambia, which was also hosting the event. Mali, Mauritania, Senegal and the Gambia chose to express specific opinions on how to stop any further droughts in the region. The goal of the treaty is to help avert and mitigate the effects of future droughts, famines and food shortages in the member states. The CILSS was created in 1973 during the first of the 'great droughts' of the late 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "4372490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4372490", "title": "9th Soviet Antarctic Expedition", "text": "9th Soviet Antarctic Expedition\n\nThe 9th Soviet Antarctic Expedition was the Soviet Antarctic Expedition that ran from 1963 to 16 March 1965.\n\nThe expedition was led by Dr. Mikhail Somov. This expedition featured the first British exchange scientist, a glaciologist.\n\nTwo ships carried the expedition from the Baltic sea to Antarctica, the \"Ob\", an icebreaker and the \"Estonia\", a passenger liner.\n\nResearch during the expedition was split into two groups. The first being geophysical; seismology, geomagnetism, earth currents, aurora, cosmic rays, radio propagation, aerology and meteorology. The second group was more fieldwork based; mapping new land, oceanography, geology and glaciology etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "5621694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5621694", "title": "Al-Alam News Network", "text": "Al-Alam News Network\n\nAl-Alam is an Arabic news channel broadcasting from Iran and is owned by the state-owned media corporation Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB).\n\nThe network's political coverage tends to be the most popular; however, other subjects, such as commentaries, analysis, business and sports also get a share of the audience. Programs are broadcast for over 300 million Arab people around the world, with large audiences in the Persian Gulf and Mediterranean regions. The satellite channel can be received in five continents.\n\nAl-Alam has news bureaus in Tehran, Beirut and Baghdad. Unlike many other channels, Al-Alam can be viewed in Iraq without the use of a satellite receiver, as it is able to use a terrestrial transmitter close to the Iran-Iraq border.\n\nAn English language website, known as Alalam News, was launched on August 15, 2006, claiming to disseminate news in an impartial moderate manner.\n\nAlalam News Network launched its Persian website in April 2007 in order to cover news exclusively in the Persian language.\n\nDuring latest years, and at the zenith of sensitive periods of global and regional developments, and due to its perception and comprehension of its media message in playing a major and effective role in preserving Islamic countries’ independence and security, Al-Alam news channel dedicated a special interest with this respect, the following are excerpts of those media activities:\n\nAt the first hours of US-led forces attack against Iraq, Al-Alam news channel started its swift and speedy coverage of the developments and events in that Muslim country at a noticeable pace; in addition, it dispatched the first pictorial reports about the presence of occupation forces.\nIn view of the fact that international news agencies and mainstream media applauded Al-Alam news channel presence in Iraq, this important and active media apparatus converted to an essential and main news source for the Iraqi nation. Al-Alam news channel played a transparent and accurate role through presenting programs and news analyses in order to enlighten Iraqi public opinion with regard to the process of forming the government in Baghdad in addition to negotiations’ process that led to the signing of st American administration.\n\nDuring the thirty-three-day 2006 Lebanon War launched by Israel against Lebanon in response to Hezbollah's arresting of two Israeli soldiers, Al-Alam news channel had a broad coverage of events.\n\nOn March 30, Al-Alam aired the video of captive Royal Navy personnel. During the 2007 Iranian seizure of Royal Navy personnel al-Alam reported with regard to British soldiers’ confessions about the infringement of Iran’s maritime sovereignty, Al-Alam news channel had an important portion in covering that incident. It was the forerunner in transmitting British soldiers’ confessions, as well as it was the main and prime source for media coverage in this respect.\n\nWhen the Gaza War started, Al-Alam suspended its ordinary daily programs and focused on reporting from the Gaza strip. It provided speedy coverage from the sites of battle, whilst attempting to present the Iranian take of the events.\n\nDuring the Shiite anti-government protests in Bahrain, the Al-Alam signal was repeatedly jammed. Allegations all point to the fact that 'Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah', the Saudi Intelligence Agency, has been traced back to for clear and valid evidence of this crime. The jamming attacks were reportedly caused by installations capable of interfering with Al-Alam's frequencies on the Badr satellite from a Saudi transmitter, sources say. This act of sabotage and illegal interference with free media has yet to be addressed in an international case.\n\nAl-Alam news channel covers all parts of the globe, with the exception of the southern part of African continent, using the following 3 satellites:\nHotbird 8, Eutelsat 7 West A and Galaxy 19. It is also broadcast terrestrially on VHF channel E4 from high ground near to the Iraqi border.\n\nIn this political program daily global developments are being discussed and analyzed at the presence of specialized experts or via SNG (satellite news gathering).\n\nThis program tends to discuss Iraq’s political, social and economic issues in the aftermath of occupation by inviting officials and experts from inside and outside Iraq.\n\nThis weekly program spotlights on special reports with regard to the most important Iran’s issues at the presence of high-ranking renowned local officials, in addition to discussing Iran’s political, scientific, cultural and economic developments and their reflections upon international boards.\n\nThis program is produced by Al-Alam news channel at its studios in the Palestinian occupied territories, in particular Jerusalem, Gaza and Ramallah cities. In this program, leaders of Palestinian groups inside occupied territories exchange views with regard to the main issues and daily developments on the Palestinian domain.\n\nA weekly program discusses the more important issues concern Islamic world where respected audience may contribute by their opinions and remarks directly via telephone calls.\n\nA strategic regional issue with potentiality of developing to a crisis or a potential political crisis in the foreseeable future is being probed in this weekly program. Experts are being invited to the program in order to analyze historical roots and the reasons behind the crystallization of the potential crisis.\n\nA wide-field research for a regional crisis and a thorough investigation to the reasons and factors that exacerbated it, in order to reach the authentic roots for the crisis with the participation of experts at Al-Alam studios in Beirut or via SNG (Satellite News Gathering).\n\nWith the political experts’ contribution at Al-Alam studios in Beirut, latest developments in Israel that are transmitted by Israeli television stations, discussed, probed and analyzed. (cf. Der schwarze Kanal)\n\nA weekly program highlights the latest political, social and cultural developments in Egypt with the contribution from Egyptian experts and analysts.\n\nThis weekly program investigates the spread of a specific social phenomenon in the Islamic world and the proposed solutions to get rid of it. Different individuals from the society along with experts participate in the program.\n\nThis program presents displays and criticizes the latest best political and cultural books at the presence of one of the authors in addition to a renowned critic.\n\nThis weekly program is presented every Friday; it does reflect the most important political excerpts during Friday prayers in some of Muslim and Arab countries.\n\nLatest political, social and cultural developments in the African Continent are being discussed in this weekly program. In addition, the program probes and investigates the challenges facing the black Continent by effective contribution from concerned experts.\n\nThe program casts a quick glance on political and social issues in addition to the latest daily global developments through SNG (Satellite News Gathering) with interested experts.\n\nA weekly program casts the light on domestic and foreign policies carried out by the American administration with concentration on issues related to the Middle East region and the possible impact of those policies upon this strategic region with direct contribution by experts in United States’ affairs.\n\nIn this weekly program, Muslims’ affairs and challenges they are facing in addition to factors causing unity and division among the Islamic ummah and the solutions’ ways to be undertaken are being discussed with two experts in Islamic nation’s affairs.\n\nDue to the channel has linked with the Islamic Republic, it is accused as an arming channel/tool for the Iranian Government and its propaganda. Critics in the Arab World consider it to have encouraged Shia extremism in the Arab World.\n\nOn June 14, 2009, a Jerusalem court sentenced a correspondent of Al-Alam, Khodr Shahine, and his assistant, Mohammed Sarhan, to two months imprisonment for reporting on the Israeli land offensive against the Gaza Strip on January 3 prior to the lifting of Israeli military press censorship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47614065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47614065", "title": "Baby(a)lone", "text": "Baby(a)lone\n\nBaby(a)lone is a 2015 Luxembourgian drama film directed by Donato Rotunno. It was selected as the Luxembourgian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 88th Academy Awards but it was not nominated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32689550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32689550", "title": "Bali language (DRC)", "text": "Bali language (DRC)\n\nBali (Baali, Kibali, Libaali) is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is not close to other Bantu languages.\n"}
{"id": "54215571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54215571", "title": "Barrack Road drill hall, Newcastle upon Tyne", "text": "Barrack Road drill hall, Newcastle upon Tyne\n\nThe Barrack Road drill hall is a military installation in Newcastle upon Tyne\n\nThe drill hall was designed as the headquarters of the 1st Northumberland Artillery Volunteers and was completed around 1890. The site also accommodated a riding school and stabling for 14 horses. With the formation of the Territorial Force in 1908, the drill hall became the home of the 1st Northumbrian Brigade, Royal Field Artillery as well as two of its three batteries (the third was at Elswick Ordnance Works in Dunn Street). The brigade was mobilised at the drill hall in August 1914 and, after being deployed to France and being re-designated 250 Brigade in May 1916, it saw action at the Battle of Flers–Courcelette in September 1916, the Battle of Morval also in September 1916 and the Battle of Le Transloy in October 1916.\n\nAfter the First World War the drill hall became home of 72 (Northumbrian) Regiment Royal Artillery, a formation which evolved after the Second World War to become 272 (Northumbrian) Regiment Royal Artillery. On the restructuring of the Territorial Army in April 1967, the drill hall became the home of 101st (Northumbrian) Regiment Royal Artillery. The drill hall was converted for residential use in the early 1980s and the building is now known as Barrack Court.\n"}
{"id": "3190748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190748", "title": "Battle of Haugsnes", "text": "Battle of Haugsnes\n\nThe Battle of Haugsnes () was fought at Haugsnes, a low peninsula south of Flugumýri in Skagafjörður, Northern Iceland. The battle was fought on April 19, 1246 between the forces of Þórður kakali Sighvatsson and those of Gissur Þorvaldsson. Þórður was victorious. It was the bloodiest battle ever to be fought in Icelandic history, with about 110 casualties in total, amongst them Brandur Kolbeinsson, chieftain of the Ásbirningar family clan. Defeat in battle led to the end of power for the Ásbirningar.\n\nThe artist and farmer Sigurður Hansen of Kringlumýri created a memorial for the battle at the site, consisting of more than 1100 boulders in battle order, each representing a combatant. Those who fell are marked with iron crosses.\n\n"}
{"id": "57128241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57128241", "title": "Bia West (Ghana parliament constituency)", "text": "Bia West (Ghana parliament constituency)\n\nBia West is one of the constituencies represented in the Parliament of Ghana. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. Bia West is located in the Bia District of the Western Region of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "11747781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11747781", "title": "Bossembélé Airport", "text": "Bossembélé Airport\n\nBossembélé Airport was an airstrip located within Bossembélé, a town in the Ombella-M'Poko prefecture of the Central African Republic. Mature trees now overhang the former runway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21969918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21969918", "title": "Canton of Monthureux-sur-Saône", "text": "Canton of Monthureux-sur-Saône\n\nThe Canton of Monthureux-sur-Saône is a former French administrative and electoral grouping of communes in the Vosges \"département\" of eastern France and in the region of Lorraine. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 11 communes, which joined the canton of Darney in 2015.\n\nOne of 15 cantons in the Arrondissement of Épinal, the Canton of Monthureux-sur-Saône had its administrative centre at Monthureux-sur-Saône.\n\nThe Canton of Monthureux-sur-Saône comprised the following 11 communes :\n\nThe intersection of the 48th parallel north with the 6th meridian east of Greenwich occurs in the canton, within the commune of Martinvelle.\n\n"}
{"id": "54485052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54485052", "title": "Château Thorenc", "text": "Château Thorenc\n\nThe Château Thorenc is a historic garden in Cannes, France. It was established in 1870 for the Duchess of Bedford, when a chateau was erected. It was acquired by Sir Richard Atwood Glass in 1876. It was subsequently purchased by the Duchess of Montrose, followed by Stuart Rendel, 1st Baron Rendel. It was purchased by Albert Neubauer in 1930. He hired architects Louis Süe and Léon Le Bel to re-design the chateau, while painter Jean-Gabriel Domergue designed the Venetian living-room. It was owned by Bảo Đại, the emperor of Annam, from 1937 to 1960. In 1968, the chateau was demolished and replaced with a residential building. Over the years, the garden designers were Mr Maria, followed by Lucien Lhotte, Denis Troncy and Jean-Baptiste Dental.\n"}
{"id": "53010492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53010492", "title": "Coat of arms of Kumanovo", "text": "Coat of arms of Kumanovo\n\nThe coat of arms of Kumanovo is actually an emblem. Milosh Kostadinov in 1970 wrote an article on municipal heraldry and came to the conclusion that just seven municipalities in the Socialist Republic of Macedonia used a coat of arms, one of which was Kumanovo. The coat of arms has been changed since Macedonian independence from the former Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 2012 Jovan Jovanovski of the Macedonian Heraldic Society has described the current coat of arms as both \"non-heraldic\" and \"quasi-heraldic\". The Kumanovo coat of arms is placed on a so-called Spanish shield. The shield depicts a building (the \"Zanaetchiski dom\"), a statue of a woman from the Memorial Ossuary Kumanovo, a yellow sun, the year 1519 (when the name Kumanovo was found in a Turkish document), the name of the town in Cyrillic script and at the bottom a single yellow tobacco leaf, all against a red background.\n"}
{"id": "17196795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17196795", "title": "Crown of Christian V", "text": "Crown of Christian V\n\nThe crown of King Christian V of Denmark was the crown used at the coronation of all of Denmark's absolutist kings. While the reign of such monarchs ended in 1840, the crown is still used during a Danish king's \"castrum doloris\", the last time in 1972.\nUsed by the kings from Christian V to Christian VIII. Made by Paul Kurtz in Copenhagen, 1670–1671. Gold with enamel and table-cut stones. Total weight 2080 g. Also 2 garnets and 2 sapphires, of which the largest dates back to Frederick I of Denmark.\n\nFrederik III had large parts of his daughters' trousseau bought in Paris, which, already at that time, was a centre for European fashion. But the jewellery was commissioned to Kurtz. He was, therefore, considered an outstanding jeweller. In 1670–1671 he made his principal piece of work, Crown of Christian V. The closed shape was inspired by the crown of Louis XIV of France, but Kurtz replaced the lily-shaped points of the French crown with palmettes and adorned the crown with a row of diamonds intertwined with palmette and acanthus. In that way a \"white\" play of light was created, which was framed by blue and red in the sapphires and garnets of the crown ring and the orb and cross in the top.\n\nThe crown forms part of the National Coat of arms of Denmark and the Royal Coat of arms. Since 1671, the crown has been the de facto symbol of the state power. It is included in stylized and varied forms in most state institutions, including ministries.\n\n"}
{"id": "5550460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550460", "title": "Customs Code of Russia", "text": "Customs Code of Russia\n\nThe Russian Customs Code is the law that regulates customs for Russia. The new Customs Code of the Russian Federation was adopted on May 14, 2003 to substitute the one dated back to 1993. The need to adopt a new Code arose from the problem of the development of Russian economy and foreign trade. The new Customs Code of the Russian Federation is to increase the efficiency of custom authorities through simplifying customs formalities and procedures. Tariffs are regulated by the Russian Customs Tariff document which became eligible on April 1, 2000.\n\n\nSurveys of Russian and foreign businessmen ... The government’s effort to simplify customs procedures has had some success, ...\n"}
{"id": "1501828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1501828", "title": "Duchy of Ruthenia", "text": "Duchy of Ruthenia\n\nDuchy of Ruthenia (Ukrainian: Велике Князівство Руське, Polish: Księstwo Ruskie) was the project of the state as a member of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in the territory of Kiev Voivodeship, Bracław Voivodeship and Chernihiv Voivodeship. Its creation was proposed by Hetman Ivan Vyhovsky with Yuri Nemyrych and Pavlo Teteria in September 1658 during the negotiations between Cossack Hetmanate and Commonwealth. The project of the Duchy was approved in the first version of the Treaty of Hadiach, but later, because of the strong resistance of the Polish society, the idea of the Duchy of Ruthenia was completely abandoned. The Cossacks were very disappointed with the final version of the treaty and The Ruin began. Yuri Nemirich, the alleged author of the Duchy of Ruthenia project, was killed in a local fight in August 1659 and Vyhovsky lost his power in October 1659, thus the project did not become a reality.\n\n"}
{"id": "51007851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51007851", "title": "Ersfjorden", "text": "Ersfjorden\n\nErsfjorden is a fjord in the Tromsø municipality of Norway. It is 12.5 kilometers long and begins on the western side of Kvaløya. \n"}
{"id": "10195887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10195887", "title": "Esta balada que te dou", "text": "Esta balada que te dou\n\n\"Esta balada que te dou\" (\"This ballad that I give you\") was the Portuguese entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1983, performed in Portuguese by Armando Gama.\n\nThe song, as the title suggests, is a piano-driven ballad. Gama describes the end of a relationship, all the while dedicating \"this pretty ballad\" to his former lover and explaining that there is nothing wrong with being sad.\n\nThe song was performed seventeenth on the night (following Israel's Ofra Haza with \"Khay\" and preceding Austria's Westend with \"Hurricane\"). At the close of voting, it had received 33 points, placing 13th in a field of 20.\n\nIt was succeeded as Portuguese representative at the 1984 Contest by Maria Guinot with \"Silêncio e tanta gente\".\n\nIt has been covered by Os Pontos Negros in the 2009 compilation 3 Pistas - Vol.2 released by the Portuguese radio station Antena3.\n"}
{"id": "44402581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44402581", "title": "Evangelical Church of the Augsburg Confession in Slovenia", "text": "Evangelical Church of the Augsburg Confession in Slovenia\n\nThe Evangelical Church of the Augsburg Confession in Slovenia () is a Lutheran denomination in Slovenia. It is led by Bishop Geza Filo. It is a member of the Lutheran World Federation, which it joined in 1952. It is also a member of the Conference of European Churches and the Community of Protestant Churches in Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "36581059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36581059", "title": "FMRoyal", "text": "FMRoyal\n\nFM Royal is the radio station produced by the Media unit and the Radio Club of the Royal College, Colombo . It was founded in 1925, and isradio station as well as the radio station in Sri Lanka, and the first radio station in Sri Lanka to have a WAP-enabled website.\n"}
{"id": "2822864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2822864", "title": "FM 100 Pakistan", "text": "FM 100 Pakistan\n\nFM 100 is a Radio Station in Pakistan. FM 100 is the pioneer of FM transmission in Pakistan. It broadcasts out of four cities, Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad Hyderabad, Rahim Yar Khan, Gujrat jhelum and Multan. has greatly influenced Pakistani radio broadcasting. Its first and only slogan is \"Assalam-o-Alaikum Pakistan\" which literally means \"May Peace be on Pakistan.\" It was founded on March 23, 1995 and has a listening area covering all of Pakistan.\n\nFM100 was established in the year 1994 and started broadcasting its regular transmission from March 23, 1995, it is the first radio channel in Pakistan providing live entertainment programs round the clock and promoting Pakistan music among the population, regular programs includes Urdu pop, Panjabi and western Music for younger generation, latest films hits for housewives, Ghazals & folk songs for listeners of all ages.\n\nFM100 has gained immense popularity in a short span of time in the major cities of Pakistan i.e. Karachi, Lahore, Hyderabad and Rawalpindi/Islamabad as it provide services in these cities. It has played a vital role in bringing about a change in their entertainment pattern but still needs some time and some efforts to immensely affect the radio listening habit of people. In Pakistan, the music played the dialogue and language used by the Djs, the conversation between callers and show hosts and the entire package and style of Fm100 shows of a new generation of Pakistan that is coming. Rahim Yar Khan and Multan stations are an addition to Fm100 Network and soon Fm100 will be available in other cities of Pakistan.\n\nFM100 radio channel has touched the Hearts of radio listeners in Pakistan. And in just few months' radio is successfully attracting sizeable quality audience away from other forms of electronic entertainment media.\nFm100 is the first 24hours live commercial radio station in Pakistan covering three main cities, Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad and surrounding areas, which accounts for the major portion of our urban population.\n\nOur regular programs includes Religious Programs, 5 Times Prayers, JUMA, KHUTABA, National & International days coverage, Special Events Coverage, National Unity, Talk shows, Youth shows, Kids Time, Sports roundup, IT related programs along with latest hits of Pakistani Pop, Folk, Film Music and Top of the Charts Western Music for listeners, competitions make our programs further more interesting for the audiences.\n\nFM100 radio channel continues to explore new ideas of amusement and entertainment to appeal a wide range of target audience we often consult our listeners to suggest new program formats so that we can cater according to the Public demands.\n\nIn short FM100 radio station has become listeners preferred choice in music and entertainment. That's why it's called\n\"Heart Beat Of PAKISTAN\"\n"}
{"id": "12324811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12324811", "title": "Foreign Literature Committee", "text": "Foreign Literature Committee\n\nForeign Literature Committee (), or Kominolit (), was an interdepartmental committee under the People's Commissariat for Education for the purchase and distribution of foreign literature in Soviet Russia. Its chairman as of October 1921 was Otto Yulyevich Schmidt.\n"}
{"id": "17263356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263356", "title": "Front de Libération de la Côte des Somalis", "text": "Front de Libération de la Côte des Somalis\n\nFront de Libération de la Côte des Somalis (English: \"Front for the Liberation of the Somali Coast\") was a nationalist organization, and later a guerrilla group, in the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas in present-day Djibouti. It competes with the Djibouti Liberation Movement (MLD), supported by Ethiopia. The FLCS was recognized as a national liberation movement by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which participated in its financing.\n\nThe FLCS was established in 1960 by Mahamoud Harbi. Its founding president was Adan Abdulle. FLCS began armed activities outside Djibouti in 1968. From May of 1969, its general secretary is Aden Robleh Awaleh. In January 1970 the Front claimed an attack on the Palm in Zinc, a bar in Djibouti City. In 1975 FLCS removes the ambassador of France in Somalia, Jean Guery, to be exchanged against two activists of the Front, which Omar Osman Rabeh. In December 1975, he claimed a failed attack against Ali Aref Bourhan. In February 1976, the FLCS claims the hijacking of a school bus, which ends with the death of the hostage-takers and two children. The organization mainly drew its support from the Issa clan. Abdourahman Ahmed Hassan, also known as Gaboode, was made the Secretary General in 1966 after serving a two-year prison sentence. \n\nThe FLCS' military struggle was actively supported by the government of Somalia. The group also received assistance from the OAU as a national liberation movement. In the 1971-1972 period, the FLCS received 1500 pounds sterling from the OAU, 0.14% of the total amount donated by the body to different African liberation movements at the time. The FLCS evolves in its demands between the request of integration in a possible \"Great Somalia\" or the simple independence of the territory. In 1975 FLCS approaches the African People's League for the Independence and finally opts for independence path, causing tensions with Mogadishu, Somalia. At independence of the territory in 27 June 1977 FLCS 1,300 to 1,400 militants are integrated into the new Djiboutian Armed Forces, but not those of the MLD despite the request of Ahmed Dini.\n"}
{"id": "37151196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37151196", "title": "Gambia Moral Congress", "text": "Gambia Moral Congress\n\nThe Gambia Moral Congress (abbreviated GMC) is a political party in the Gambia. The party was founded by the lawyer Mai Ahmad Fatty in 2009. The motto of the party is \"People Power for Human Rights and Economic Justice\". The GMC was part of the Coalition 2016 for the 2016 presidential election, where Adama Barrow was declared the coalition's candidate and subsequently won. Mai Ahmad Fatty is the interior minister of the current government. He previously served as Barrow's personal adviser during the political impasse.\n"}
{"id": "44547027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547027", "title": "Gjermundbu helmet", "text": "Gjermundbu helmet\n\nThe Gjermundbu helmet is a Viking Age helmet.\n\nThe helmet was first discovered by accident during 1943 at the Gjermundbu farm near Haugsbygd in the municipality of Ringerike in Buskerud, Norway. Officials at the University of Oslo were later notified. Conservator Sverre Marstrander and museum assistant Charlotte Blindheim led an investigation which confirmed the existence of a burial chamber of historic value dating from the Viking era. The Gjermundbu finds (\"Gjermundbu-funnet\") contained many artifacts including articles of weaponry. The Gjermundbu helmet was found in nine fragments and was subsequently restored. The helmet was made of iron and was in the shape of a peaked cap made from four plates. It is now on display at the Museum of Cultural History of the University of Oslo.\n\nTogether with the Tjele helmet fragment, two fragments from Gotland, and one fragment from Kiev, it is the only known Viking helmet capable of reconstruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "54056416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54056416", "title": "Handballclub Fivers Margareten", "text": "Handballclub Fivers Margareten\n\nHandballclub Fivers Margareten is an Austrian handball team based in Vienna. It was founded in 1894.\n\nThe club has won the following:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9249452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9249452", "title": "Health, Development, Information and Policy Institute", "text": "Health, Development, Information and Policy Institute\n\nThe Health, Development, Information and Policy Institute (also known as HDIP) was established in 1989 by a group of experienced researchers and health practitioners and development experts, including Dr. Mustafa Barghouthi MP, committed to improving the status of health care for all Palestinians. As an independent, non- profit Palestinian organization, HDIP specializes in policy research and planning regarding different development sectors in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.\n\nThe institute has expanded to serve as advocates for better government policies on behalf of marginalized groups such as women, youth and the disabled. It is devoted to building a democratic Palestinian civil society. In addition, HDIP provides information services, evaluations, and training in the areas of health, development policy and system management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33258776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33258776", "title": "Kaisermühlen Blues", "text": "Kaisermühlen Blues\n\nKaisermühlen Blues is an Austrian television series.\n\n"}
{"id": "35340609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35340609", "title": "Kamuzu Central Hospital", "text": "Kamuzu Central Hospital\n\nKamuzu Central Hospital is a teritary referral hospital in the Lilongwe, Malawi. It is estimated to have 600-1,000 beds, though the true number of patients always exceeds the number of beds. It serves approximately 5 million people. It has a partnership with the University of North Carolina in and Baylor College of Medicine/Texas Children's Hospital in the United States and a partnership project, called MAGNET (Malawi German Networking for Capacity Building in Treatment, Training and Research at Kamuzu Central Hospital), with the Institute of Public Health of the University Hospital Heidelberg in Germany, the University Hospital Cologne and the University Hospital Bonn. \n\nIn 2012, President Bingu wa Mutharika was admitted to Kamuzu Central Hospital and was diagnosed with cardiac arrest.\n\n"}
{"id": "22553854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22553854", "title": "Karjala", "text": "Karjala\n\nKarjala is a Finnish lager type beer manufactured by the Hartwall brewery. Karjala beer was manufactured by the cooperative shop Osuusliike Itä-Karjala owned Sortavalan panimo Oy brewery from 1932 until 1944. Production was resumed in 1948.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Karjala beer was already a fading brand until the Soviet Union's ambassador to Finland, Andrei E. Kovalev, stated in 1968 publicly that the label of Karjala beer evoked wrong perceptions from the war times. Karjala beer's label has the coat of arms of Karelia which features an arm wielding straight western (Swedish) sword thrusting a Russian sabre wielded by another arm. The press noted the event with an article spanning 14 broadsheet pages and Karjala-beer gained new steam as a brand. Later on, a proverb stating \"Karelia back, even bottle by bottle\" (Karjala takaisin, vaikka pullo kerrallaan.) was formed. As excise tax class III beer gained popularity, Karjala beer got a nickname of \"evacuee beer\" \"evakkokalja\", especially in eastern Finland, as it will \"always return\", \"tulloo aina takasi\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33325086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33325086", "title": "Ljubezen.si", "text": "Ljubezen.si\n\nLjubezen.si is a novel by Slovenian author Mojca Rudolf. It was first published in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "9535007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9535007", "title": "Mata Hari (song)", "text": "Mata Hari (song)\n\n\"Mata Hari\" was the Norwegian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1976, performed in English by Anne-Karine Strøm.\n\nThe song is an up-tempo number, in which Strøm sings about the difficulties she faces in life. The cure for these, she sings, is to borrow some of the mystique of Mata Hari, to whom she addresses the song. The sexual exploits of the famous woman are implied to have been considerable.\n\nThe song was performed ninth on the night, following the Netherlands' Sandra Reemer with \"The Party's Over\" and preceding Greece's Mariza Koch with \"Panayia Mu, Panayia Mu\". At the close of voting, it had received 7 points, placing 18th (last) in a field of 18.\n\nStrøm had represented Norway at Eurovision twice before, once in 1973 as part of vocal group The Bendik Singers and again as a solo performer in the 1974 Contest.\n\nAs of 2012, Strøm still holds the record as the only artist in the history of Eurovision to have finished in last place twice. The first time came in 1974 with the song \"The First Day of Love\".\n\nAnne was succeeded as Norwegian representative at the 1977 contest by Anita Skorgan with \"Casanova\".\n"}
{"id": "561191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561191", "title": "Music of Andorra", "text": "Music of Andorra\n\nThe Principality of Andorra is home to folk dances like the contrapàs and marratxa, which survive in Sant Julià de Lòria especially. Andorran folk music has similarities to the music in nearby regions of France and Spain, but is especially Catalan in character, especially in the presence of dances like the sardana. Other Andorran folk dances include contrapàs in Andorra la Vella and Saint Anne's dance in Escaldes-Engordany.\n\nRadio Nacional d’Andorra runs both Radio Andorra and the music station Andorra Música.\n\nMusic festivals in Andorra include the ChamJam Music Festival, Ordino and the jazz Escaldes-Engordany International Jazz Festival. Violinist Gérard Claret is the director of the Young National Orchestra of Cambra d'Andorra.\n\nThe national anthem of Andorra is \"El Gran Carlemany\" (\"Great Charlemagne\"). It was adopted on 8 September 1914, the feast day of Andorra's patron saint, the Virgin of Meritxell. \n\nThe progressive metal band Persefone is one of the most notable music groups to originate from Andorra.\n\nAndorra (through national broadcaster RTVA) has participated in the Eurovision Song Contest on only six occasions, from 2004 until 2009. In 2004, Spaniard Marta Roure's \"Jugarem A Estimar-Nos\" was the first Catalan language entrant to the Eurovision Song Contest. Andorra did not progress beyond the semi-finals in any of its six attempts; its best result was in 2007, when punk band Anonymous and the song \"Salvem el món\" finished 12th among 28 countries in the semi-final. Andorra decided to withdraw from the 2010 edition due to lack of funding from the TV station's shareholders and due to spending cuts within the network, and has not returned.\n\n"}
{"id": "39012942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39012942", "title": "New Mole Battery", "text": "New Mole Battery\n\nNew Mole Battery was an artillery battery in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar.\n\nThe New Mole Battery is used by the Gibraltar Fire Brigade for practise. which has not assisted its condition. The nearby Alexandra Battery is said to be in good condition.\n"}
{"id": "27546610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27546610", "title": "Order of the Croatian Interlace", "text": "Order of the Croatian Interlace\n\nThe Order of the Croatian Interlace or Order of the Early Croatian three-strand pattern () is the sixteenth most important medal given by the Republic of Croatia. The order was founded on April 1, 1995. The medal is awarded for advancement of progress and reputation of Croatia and the welfare of its citizens. It is named after the Croatian Interlace, a traditional Croatian ornamental design, an interwoven series of branches used as a wall or barrier.\n"}
{"id": "39885565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39885565", "title": "Philippe Crouzet", "text": "Philippe Crouzet\n\nPhilippe Crouzet (born 18 October 1956 in Neuilly-sur-Seine) is a French businessman, and the chairman of the management board of Vallourec () since April 2009.\n\nPhilippe Crouzet graduated from Sciences Po in 1976 and the École nationale d'administration in 1981.\n\nHe served as counsel (Maître des requêtes) to the Conseil d'Etat.\n\nIn 1986, he joined Saint-Gobain () as director of corporate planning. Three years later, in 1989, he was appointed general manager of the paper business unit (Papeteries de Condat). From 1992 to 1996, he was a general delegate for Spain and Portugal, and then CEO of the ceramics division until 2000. He later served as Senior Vice-President of the Group in charge of Finance, Purchasing and Information Systems. From 2005 to 2009, he served as Senior Vice-President in charge of the building distribution sector.\n\nHe is married to Sylvie Hubac, who has served as the Chief of Staff of President François Hollande since 2012.\n\nPhilippe Crouzet is the founder and president of ARES, an association specialized in professional reinsertion of socially impaired persons in the Île-de-France area.\n"}
{"id": "15367122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15367122", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Białystok", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Białystok\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Białystok () is a Latin Rite Metropolitan archdiocese in Podlaskie Voivodeship, northeastern Poland.\n\nIts cathedral archiepiscopal see is Bazylika Archikatedralna Wniebowzięcia NMP, a Minor Basilica in the city of Białystok.\n\nIts Suffragan sees are :\n\nAs per 2014, it pastorally served 351,550 Catholics (83.0% of 423,476 total; however only 43,2% are active members) on 5,550 km² in 114 parishes and 25 missions with 403 priests (380 diocesan, 23 religious), 204 lay religious (28 brothers, 176 sisters) and 60 seminarians.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15620416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15620416", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Verdun", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Verdun\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Verdun (Latin: \"Dioecesis Virodunensis\"; French: \"Diocèse de Verdun\") is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church in France. Currently a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Besançon, the diocese corresponds to the department of Meuse in the Region of Lorraine. The diocese is subdivided into 577 parishes.\n\nThe diocese dates back to the 4th century. Traditionally the city was first evangelized around 332 by St. Sanctinus, Bishop of Meaux, who became the first bishop. Sanctinus erected the first Christian oratory dedicated to St. Peter and St. Paul\n\n\"Other bishops worthy of mention are: St. Possessor (470–486); St. Firminus (486–502); St. Vitonus (Vanne) (502–529); St. Désiré (Desideratus) (529–554), St. Agericus (Airy) (554–591), friend of St. Gregory of Tours and of Fortunatus; St. Paul (630–648), formerly Abbot of the Benedictine Monastery of Tholey in the Diocese of Trier; and St. Madalvaeus (Mauve) (753–776).\"\n\nUntil 1801 Verdun was part of the ecclesiastical province of the Archbishop of Trier. On November 29, 1801 it was suppressed and added to the Diocese of Nancy. On October 6, 1822 the diocese was re-established.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14468116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14468116", "title": "Rui-be", "text": "Rui-be\n"}
{"id": "6989029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6989029", "title": "Scouting in the Antarctic", "text": "Scouting in the Antarctic\n\nScouting in the Antarctic is maintained by a single troop of Argentinian Scouts and also by visiting Scouts from other nations who are participating in expeditions and research projects.\n\nThe southernmost Scout unit of the world, the \"Grupo Scouts 1556 \"Esperanza Blanca\"\", is at the Esperanza Base at the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula; it is affiliated to the Scouts de Argentina. Originally, the group belonged to the \"Asociación Diocesana de Scouts Católicos Argentinos Castrense\" (Diocesan Association of the Catholic Scouts of Argentina - Military Diocese), an independent Scout organization with links to the Union Internationale des Guides et Scouts d'Europe.\n\nCharles Hoadley, who founded one of the first Scout Groups in Footscray, Victoria, Australia, was a member of the Australasian Antarctic Expedition led by Sir Douglas Mawson from 1911–14. Hoadley was a member of the Western Base Party. Cape Hoadley was named after him upon discovery by the exploration party.\n\nJames William Slessor Marr was one of two British Scouts who were selected from 1,700 Scouting applicants to accompany Sir Ernest Shackleton on the 1921 Shackleton–Rowett Expedition. The expedition was curtailed following the death of Shackleton, but Marr later joined the 1929 British Australian and New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition. The other Scout, Norman Mooney, left the expedition \"en route\" due to illness.\n\nPaul Siple took part in two Byrd expeditions of 1928 to 1930 and 1933 to 1935, representing the Boy Scouts of America as an Eagle Scout.\n\nFollowing the example of Paul Siple, Eagle Scout Richard Chappell was selected to join the researchers of the United States Antarctic Program to mark International Geophysical Year in 1957-58. Mark Lienmiller was similarly selected to go to the Antarctic in 1978 for the 50th anniversary of Byrd's 1928 expedition. This was repeated in 1985 when Doug Barnhart was selected. These placements proved so successful that the National Science Foundation announced that once every three years, the National Science Foundation would sponsor an \"Antarctic Scout\" to join the Antarctic Program commencing in 1987, with the aim of \"providing students with opportunities to participate in research activities outside the college or university setting\".\n\nThree Scouts of Scouts Australia, Ian Brown, Keith Williams, and Peter Treseder, were the first Australians to walk unaided to the South Pole, and stood at the Pole with the World Scout flag on New Year's Day 1998. It took them 60 days to reach the Pole, pulling all their food and gear with them. \"We gained our zest for adventure in Scouts. Scouting is fun and you learn to adventure safely,\" they said in a message broadcast from Antarctica to Scouts at the 1997/98 Australian Scout Jamboree.\n\nA projected expedition organised by Hampshire Scout Expeditions in the United Kingdom is planned for 2018, with the aim of skiing 700 miles (1130 kilometres) from the coast of Antarctica to the South Pole in 60 days and then kite ski the return journey. The four-man team, three of whom will be under 25 years-old, will have completed training in Scotland, the French Alps, Norway and Greenland before the start of the expedition, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33606452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33606452", "title": "Serpula vermicularis", "text": "Serpula vermicularis\n\nSerpula vermicularis, known by common names including the calcareous tubeworm, fan worm, plume worm or red tube worm, is a species of segmented marine polychaete worm in the family Serpulidae. It is the type species of the genus \"Serpula\" and was first described by Linnaeus in 1767. It lives in a tube into which it can retract.\n\n\"Serpula vermicularis\" lives in a calcareous tube which is attached to a rock, boulder or other hard surface. The tube is often curved, but is not tightly coiled as in some other related species. It can grow to a length of , but is usually shorter than this. The anterior part of the worm protrudes from the tube and has a plume of about 40 feather-like radioles projecting from the second segment, or peristomium, which also houses the two eyes and the mouth. The radioles are bipinnate and covered with fine cilia. They are commonly red, orange or pink and are usually banded with white. A funnel-shaped lid or operculum covers the entrance to the tube when the animal retracts inside. This lid has up to 160 fine creases around its edge and is symmetrical and usually red. It is sometimes divided into two. The yellow-coloured body has seven thoracic segments and up to 190 abdominal segments which are protected by the tube. At least four segments with setae (bristles) are found in the thoracic region.\n\n\"Serpula vermicularis\" is cosmopolitan in distribution. It is found in the Pacific and Indian Oceans and the European seaboard of the Atlantic Ocean, but not on the North American coast. It occurs in the intertidal zone and at depths down to . Also along Southern African coast from Olifant's River to Maputo.\n\n\"Serpula vermicularis\" grows on hard substrates. It favours shells of bivalves, boulders and man-made structures. Around the United Kingdom, juveniles were found to be plentiful growing on the bryozoan, \"Flustra foliacea\". Large colonies sometimes form, but these are seldom on rocks. Larvae may settle on the tubes of other worms and their subsequent development can form reefs. These reefs are very fragile and often break up. This is sometimes due to the activity of certain boring sponges, such as \"Cliona celata\" (red boring sponge).\n\nThe tube of \"S. vermicularis\" is made from calcite and aragonite. Calcium for its manufacture is stored in two white sacs on the ventral side of the peristomium. The tube is fabricated by the glandular ventral shields on the other thoracic segments, where calcium is mixed with an organic secretion to make a paste. This is formed into shape by a collar found just behind the first segment, the prostomium.\n\n\"Serpula vermicularis\" is a filter feeder and extends its radioles to catch phytoplankton and detritus. The radioles also act as gills. Blood is pumped in and out of these with the flow direction alternating in a single set of vessels. The blood is then pumped through a ventral blood vessel to the tip of the abdomen before returning through a sinus adjoining the gut.\n\nThe blood of \"S. vermicularis\" contains the oxygen-binding pigment chlorocruorin. As well as transporting oxygen to the tissues, this binds carbon monoxide much more efficiently than does human haemoglobin. This may be the reason why the worm may settle and grow on brown seaweeds such as \"Fucus\", but avoids giant kelp, \"Nereocystis\". The latter uses carbon monoxide to inflate its pneumocysts, and this would be toxic to the worm.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, spawning takes place between June and September. The larvae form part of the plankton for up to two months before settling on the seabed. Growth is fairly rapid with tubes extending by 1 cm (0.4 in) in a month. The worms mature in about 10 months and may live for several years.\n\nColdwater reefs built up by \"S. vermicularis\" take many years to develop and provide a hard substrate which other organisms use. The reefs around the United Kingdom support a diverse community of sessile invertebrates, including sponges, hydroids, ascidians, bryozoans, the worm \"Pomatoceros triqueter\", the sea anemone \"Metridium senile\" and bivalves such as \"Chlamys\" spp., \"Modiolus modiolus\" and queen scallop, \"Aequipecten opercularis\". Macrofauna include crabs such as \"Cancer pagurus\", the sea urchins \"Echinus esculentus\" and \"Psammechinus miliaris\", the brittle star \"Ophiothrix fragilis\", the starfish \"Asterias rubens\" and the whelk \"Buccinum undatum\". Red algae grow on the reef in shallow water. The tunicate \"Pyura microcosmus\" occurs on these reefs, but is seldom seen in other habitats. A large number of cryptic species of microfauna shelter among the tubes.\n\nPredators of the worm include sea urchins, starfish, and the wrasses \"Crenilabrus melops\" and \"Ctenolabrus rupestris\".\n"}
{"id": "679573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679573", "title": "Snooker world rankings 1979/1980", "text": "Snooker world rankings 1979/1980\n\nSnooker world rankings 1979/1980: The professional world rankings for the top 28 snooker players in the 1979/1980 season are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "44318698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318698", "title": "The Blu Ribbon Revolution", "text": "The Blu Ribbon Revolution\n\nThe Blu Ribbon Revolution: Co-creating a World Beyond Poverty (ISBN 978 - 93 - 5053 - 306 - 2) is a book by the Winner of the 2012 Dubai Cares Award and community activist Viswanathan Manikan.\n\nThe book looks into the aspect of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a tool for measured efforts towards poverty alleviation while aligning business objectives. In the book Manikan strikes a contrast between excessive wealth vis-à-vis stark poverty and inadequate resource distribution across globally deprived regions.\n\nInsights into major developmental and relief efforts across governments, multi-lateral organizations, non-governmental organization (NGO’s), and individuals are accentuated. But the main highlight of the book is CSR and its far reaching and sustainable practices that have brought about measurable changes and improved conditions across economic zones.\n\nThe Blu Ribbon Revolution starts off by addressing key issues of poverty particularly in least developed countries (LDCs). Manikan further discusses the causes of poverty with historical ramifications and progressively highlights alleviations efforts. The book divided in four phases concludes with the importance of CSR, case studies and provides an easily implementable CSR business framework.\n\nWhile the luxury market booms Manikan states the richest nations with wealth above US$100,000 per adult in 2010, were found in North America, Western Europe, and the rich Asian-Pacific and Middle East countries. In contrast to these statistics were figures that state that almost 50 percent of the population in LDCs lives on less than $1 a day.\n\nThe book puts forth the appalling conditions, issues of malnutrition, rates of infant mortality, diseases, economic and social factors and poverty traps in the regions of Sub-Saharan Africa, Middle Eastern and North Africa MENA, Latin America and the Caribbean and South Asia (India and Bangladesh).The UN Human Development Index (HDI), Purchasing power parity (PPP) and Gini coefficient in these regions are some of the factors that have been taken into consideration.\n\nManikan discusses how HDI is lowest in Africa putting forth poverty parameters in Horn of Africa. Even though HDI were lower in these regions poverty in itself has varied repercussions. The author mentions the Report of the State of Food Insecurity in the World (1999) that estimated India alone with more undernourished people (204 million) than all of sub-Saharan Africa combined.\n\nThe origins of poverty have been classified as historical, environmental, social, cultural and political each with its own impact. Colonialism, slavery, war, and conquest have led to long term impacts globally but most of all in African and Asian nations.\n\nIn terms of Environmental causes, nature plays a vital role as harvests from forests, fisheries, and farms are a primary source of rural income and a fallback when other sources of employment falter. However the author highlights environmental imbalance can be disastrous as the nature of poverty is largely rural. UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has pointed out that, in the world’s poorest countries, more than 75 percent of the population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for work and income. Any environmental adversity in such a case can be have long term consequences.\n\nThe Multidimensional nature of poverty can be assessed by the fact that Manikan states that 80 percent of the world’s population lives in countries where income differentials have widened. The UNDP’s 2007 Human Development Report highlights this in the book with an estimate that the poorest 40 percent of the world’s population account for only 5 percent of global income. On the other hand, the richest 20 percent account for 75 percent of world income.\n\nConsidering economic factors such as half the world’s workforce toiling in unstable, insecure jobs, Manikan states children, especially girls, suffer major health and education setbacks. He states it would be well worth to ponder the fact that statistics state around 24,000 children die every day from preventable causes – many from diseases like measles, diphtheria, and tetanus.\n\nPolitical factors such as unrest can also to lead to poverty issues such as displacement. The author mentions that Southern and Western Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are home to the largest populations of refugees. By the end of 2010 more than 43 million people were displaced by conflict or persecution, both within and outside the borders of their own countries as per UN HCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees).\n\nHe also discusses the role of women in politics. As per the statistics quoted in 2008 women held at least 40 percent of the seats in five parliaments: Rwanda leads the way at 48.8 percent, followed by Sweden (47 percent), Cuba (43.2 percent), Finland (41.5 percent), and Argentina (40 percent).\n\nThe author covers views of economists and historians on creating measures for poverty and the complexities that follow.\n\nThe author talks about Alleviation avenues by first mentioning noted economist and poverty activist Jeffery Sachs and his theory of clinical economics. The role of national governments and their adherence to World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) framework as per Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative have been discussed in-depth in chosen nations. Poverty alleviation programmes are classified into (i) selfemployment programmes, (ii) wage employment programmes, (iii) food security programmes, (iv) social security programmes, and (v) urban poverty alleviation programmes. \nCentral to the theme of poverty reduction have been the UN Millennium Development Goals. The framework of eight goals, eighteen targets, and forty-eight indicators have been studied along with efforts by United Nations member bodies and international organizations.\n\nThe author talks about the growth of international NGO community falling within the broad framework of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs). Manikan mentions that their partnership with United Nations has been active since 1947 and humanitarian work has been the core objective of some of the biggest NGO's such as Oxfam, CARE, World Vision, and Save the Children. The book looks at the extraordinary work of these along with the work of organizations such as The Green Belt Movement, The Hunger Project, Dubai Cares, Dubai International Humanitarian Aid and Development(DIHAD), Promoting Education, emPowering Youth’s (PEPY’s), The Dhaka Project, Room to Read, and ACF (Action Contre la Faim) International.\n\nIn the larger gamut of humanitarian efforts the author also illustrates the role of social entrepreneurs, change makers and philanthropists.\n\nThe Credit Suisse global wealth pyramid is an indicator of the state of poverty in terms of percentage. Manikan suggests understanding each of the four tiers of the pyramid to get a deeper understanding of how CSR takes precedence over the mere act of charity while attending to 68.4% (in 2010) of the global poor. He suggests corporate social responsibility is a phrase that marketers and economists use; it has filtered down to represent the virtue of a company and its motives in community management.\n\nA rigorous literature review of CSR ideologies and frameworks suggested by noted economists and poverty activists have been studied. The Wealth of Nations by eighteenth-century Scottish philosopher Adam Smith, the Bowen Effect and evolution of CSR from 1950s have been discussed. This brings forth the pivotal CSR debate on whether businesses have the sole purpose of making profits increasing shareholder wealth or must businesses consider comprehensive stakeholders while giving back to the society at large.\n\nAn evolution of CSR across the world, case studies and the UN Global Compact have been discussed to bring about the benefits of a strategic CSR engagement. Manikan finally proposes that CSR in the true sense aids in adherence to wider stakeholder interests while creating a balance between business goals and societal obligations. He highlights different aspects of CSR, frameworks suggested by noted CSR practitioners and illustrates his own strategic CSR framework for organizations taking onto account the five different aspects of Environmental, Economic, Philanthropic, Ethical and Legal CSR.\n\nAs a parting note Manikan suggests in essence, organizations today need to adapt to changing leadership requirements effectively implementing CSR strategies for growth and sustainability.\n"}
{"id": "1848351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1848351", "title": "Timidria", "text": "Timidria\n\nTimidria is the name of an NGO for human rights in Niger, founded by Ilguilas Weila. Timidria is dedicated to the eradication of slavery in Niger.\n\nTimidria was formed in 1991 and the name means 'solidarity' in Tamajaq. Niger's government denies the existence of slavery in the country, but international human rights organizations estimate the number of slaves in Niger at approximately 40,000.\n\nThe headquarters of Timidria is in the capital Niamey, and the organization has offices all around the country, helping escaped slaves to build up a new life in freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "9072391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9072391", "title": "Trupele de Carabinieri", "text": "Trupele de Carabinieri\n\nTrupele de Carabinieri (Carabinier Troops) is the gendarmerie-type force of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Moldova. The Moldovan Carabinieri are to ensure, together with the police or independently, public order, protection of rights and freedoms of citizens, owners' properties and prevention of violations of the law.The Department of Carabineer Troops has 5 Military Units and some 2,000 soldiers working on a contract basis or on time. On December 12, 1991, the establishment of the Carabinieri Troops was approved by the Parliament and subsequently signed by the President of the Republic of Moldova.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46598876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46598876", "title": "United Democratic Forces (Benin)", "text": "United Democratic Forces (Benin)\n\nThe United Democratic Forces (, FDU) is a political alliance in Benin led by Mathurin Nago.\n\nIn response to president Yayi Boni's potential constitution change to allow him to run for a third term, Nago left the Cowry Forces for an Emerging Benin. The FDU was established on 9 February 2015 as an alliance of the Union for Progress and Democracy, Impulse for a New Vision of the Republic, the Party for Progress and Democracy and the Party for Democracy and Solidarity, all of which had previously been part of the Cowry Forces for an Emerging Benin.\n\nThe alliance won four seats in the 2015 parliamentary elections.\n"}
{"id": "17991952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17991952", "title": "Širok Sokak", "text": "Širok Sokak\n\nŠirok Sokak (, meaning \"Wide Alley\", from the Turkish word for \"Street\") is a long pedestrian street in Bitola, Republic of Macedonia. The street is considered to be the centre of Bitola. It roughly starts at Magnolia Square and ends in the City Park. It is graced with neo-classical buildings that contain stores, cafés and restaurants. Širok Sokak is also home to several consulates.\n\n"}
