{"id": "28187827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28187827", "title": "Al-Araqeeb", "text": "Al-Araqeeb\n\nAl-Araqeeb ( \"Qarya al-‘Arāqīb\", ) is an unrecognized village of the Al-Turi Arab Bedouin tribe, five miles (8 km) north of Beersheba demolished and rebuilt over 100 times.\n\nThe At-Turi cemetery of the Al-Araqeeb Bedouin dates back to 1914. After the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Israel began to displace the Bedouin of the Negev desert, and by 1953 had expelled 90% of the roughly 100,000 people in the northern Negev. According to Eyal Weizman, various methods, from strafing to massacres and tent burning were employed, and the refugees moved to Gaza and the West Bank. The survivors were swept into a more salinated area, into a reservation, known as \"Siyāj.\" The Bedouin who came from Al-Araqib (\"Gentle Hills\"), such as the al-Tūris and al-‘Uqbis have nonetheless persisted in returning to their ancestral lands, and their village lies precisely on the 200mm RPA (rainfall per annum) drawn by Israeli meteorologists on the basis of a schema developed by Wladimir Köppen to define cultivable land from the desert. Two archives have been established to document the local Bedouins rights to their land, one by Nūri al-‘Uqbi and another by Israeli geographer Oren Yiftachel. Israeli courts have so far rejected suits to reclaim this land, refusing, according to Weizman, to acknowledge Bedouin tenure south of the 200 mm line, which is reserved for kibbutzim and moshavim. In 2012 an Israeli court turned down a suit by the al-'Uqbis to have their title, based on a claim of continuous cultivation, recognized by the state.\n\nThe Jewish National Fund planned to include the land of Al-Araqeeb in a new forestation project in the Negev Desert called \"Ambassadors' Forest\", honoring the assistance provided to Israel by the world's diplomatic corps. This plan spurred objection from some Bedouin living in Rahat and several villages nearby. In July 2010 the village was demolished by 1,300 police officers, acting under orders of the Israel Land Administration.\n\nAfter a six-year-long court case, in a precedent-setting ruling on March 15, 2012, the Beersheba District court ruled against the six lawsuits brought by Al-Uqbi family, which claimed their private ownership of land in the Al-Araqeeb area. Based upon the experts' testimony and the presented evidence, the judge ruled that this land belongs to the State. The court ruling was left disregarded - the Bedouin came back to the place 59 times to rebuild the structures, but each time they were razed back by the state. Aziz al-Touri, a representative of the village has asked why Jews are permitted to move to the Negev and live in kibbutzim, moshavim and isolated farms while that right is denied the Bedouin desiring to dwell in their own villages. The interviewers comment that the 1948 Palestinian exodus never ended.\n\nThe Bedouin families of Arakib say they own about 4,600 acres of the Negev desert, and that they paid property taxes to the Ottoman Empire and later to the British Mandatory authorities in Palestine. Community leaders say they were forced by Israel's military into settlements along the border of the West Bank in 1951, and that they have been pushed off their land whenever they have since tried to return.\n\nIsraeli officials say the property was taken over by the state in the early 1950s because it was abandoned, and because its inhabitants were unable to produce deeds. They maintained that the Bedouins have been squatters who refused to pay rent; they cultivated land that did not belong to them, and were raising animals without livestock permits. Authorities claim that there has never been a permanent Bedouin settlement in the area. The Ottoman authorities permitted the clan members to graze their sheep and cows on this land, but did not give them ownership over it.\n\nAccording to the Israel Lands Administration (ILA), Bedouins began illegally settling in the area in 1998, and several dozen families built homes in the area in 1999 when it appeared the government was attempting to seize the land. The ILA offered to rent the land for 2 NIS per dunam, but the inhabitants refused to pay and \"continued to infiltrate the land year after year.\" In 2000, an Israeli court order banned the Bedouins from entering the area. The ruling was disregarded, as Bedouins continued to move into the area and plant trees. In 2003, the ILA secured a court order to evacuate the residents, and the case went to the Israeli Supreme Court. \nIn 2004, though one resident speaks of crop dusters poisoning the fields in the later 1990s, the Israel Land Administration used crop duster fumigation to destroy the residents' wheat crops. This practice was outlawed by the court in 2007 after the Adalah legal center for Arab rights in Israel filed a petition to the Israeli Supreme Court on behalf of the residents of Al-Araqeeb and Wadi al-Bakar.\n\nTens of thousands of structures have been built in Bedouin communities, and new ones are built more quickly than the state can demolish them. They are illegal since the state never issues construction permits for the unrecognized villages.\n\nIn July 2011 the state filed a NIS 1.8 million suit against 34 Bedouins from the Abu Mediam and Abu Jabber families, whom they accuse of illegal encroachment on state lands. The suit seeks to reclaim the state costs of evicting families from the Negev village.\n\nIn July 2010, Israel Land Administration inspectors and 1,300 police officers demolished the villages' 46 buildings and uprooted 850 trees, which were transferred for replanting elsewhere. Witnesses told CNN that the hundreds of Israeli riot police who stormed the village were accompanied by \"busloads of cheering civilians\". Israeli police said that there were \"no disturbances\". Hundreds of olive trees belonging to the villagers were uprooted. Israeli left-wing activists mildly clashed with police during the demolition.\n\nSome residents immediately began rebuilding their homes. Shlomo Tziser, a Land Administration administrator told the press that, \"the people who live here have homes in Rahat and Kfar Kassem. We are implementing a verdict for the evacuation of the area which has passed all legal instances. Today we shall evacuate them and should they return we'll do it again.\"\n\nOne week after the last demolition (August 4), the village was razed again after residents returned and rebuilt some parts of it. Six people were arrested during the second demolition of the village. The Bedouin Knesset member, Taleb el-Sana, was forcibly removed from the scene by police after he had tried to stop the demolition.\n\nOver the next two weeks, the village was demolished a third (August 10) and a fourth time (August 17) after residents rebuilt it. The demolition on August 17 took place at dawn during Ramadan while the villagers were fasting. Throughout the following months, residents continued to return to the village and build makeshift structures.\n\nOn January 16, 2011, Israeli security forces demolished eleven makeshift buildings. Protesters clashed with police, who responded with pepper spray and paintball guns. Five protesters were injured. Taleb el-Sana attended and told Israeli media that, \"The state is pushing its Bedouin citizens to the point where they may launch a popular intifada, which will have severe results.\" The inhabitants immediately returned to the site. The following day, police arrived at the site and evicted the residents, clashing with them and Israeli leftists. An Israeli police officer was injured by stones thrown at him, and police responded by firing paintballs at protesters, injuring one. Five people were arrested. On January 31, the village was again demolished, while police forces also guarded Jewish National Fund (JNF) forestation work in the area.\n\nOn February 10, 2011, clashes occurred again, after residents and activists disrupted the work of JNF forestry workers. Six people were injured and taken to Soroka Medical Center in Beersheba, and three villagers were arrested for throwing stones. On February 16, villagers again clashed with JNF workers and their police escorts. Police responded by firing paintballs. Two villagers were lightly injured and taken to Soroka Medical Center.\n\nIn late 2006, seventeen Bedouin of the al-Uqbi family filed six land claims saying that the land they are on, including Al-Araqeeb, belongs to them. After five years of legal proceedings, the court heard extensive testimonies of experts and witnesses on the behalf of both sides, reviewed historical documents, and scrutinized land laws from the Ottoman period, the British mandate period and that of Israel. The country's leading experts in historical and political geography testified. For the plaintiffs spoke Ben Gurion University’s Prof. Oren Yiftachel, a critical geographer and a social scientist. Testifying for the state was Prof. Ruth Kark, a leading expert on the historical geography of Palestine and Israel from the Hebrew University.\n\nThe plaintiffs argued that the state order to expropriate the land in 1951 was made on the erroneous assumption that under Ottoman law, the land was classified as \"Mawat\" (uncultivated and not adjacent to settled lands). They said that the land had been cultivated and owned by them, and so classified as \"Miri\" land under Ottoman legal terms. In an expert opinion filed to the court, Oren Yiftachel said that these “tribal areas” of scattered tent clusters were not at that time registered with the authorities, but were nevertheless considered settled and met the definition of a “village” in the 1921 Land Ordinance.\n\nThe state’s expert witness, Prof. Ruth Kark, said that prior to 1858 there had been no fixed settlements on or near the disputed land. The first permanent settlement had been Beersheba, which the Ottomans founded in 1900 and which is 11 kilometers from Al-Araqeeb – refuting the Beduin’s claims that the land could not have been Mawat because it was both cultivated and next to a settlement. The State presented an aerial shot of the place which they said proved that the Al-Araqeeb area had no cultivated land during the British mandate period. The bedouin presented aerial photographs from 1945 onwards which they said showed extensive cultivation. \n\nThe verdict was presented by Judge Sarah Dovrat in the Beersheba District court on March 15, 2012. Based on the experts' testimony and the presented documents, the judge ruled in favor of the State, saying that the land was not \"assigned to the plaintiffs, nor held by them under conditions required by law,\" and that they still had to \"prove their rights to the land by proof of its registration in the Tabu\" (Israel Lands Authority). The judge said that the Bedouin knew they were supposed to register but did not. She said, \"The state said that although the complainants are not entitled to compensation, it has been willing to negotiate with them,\" and that \"it is a shame that these negotiations did not reach any agreement.\" The court also ordered the Bedouin to pay legal costs of 50,000 NIS (approximately U.S. $13,500).\n\nIn its ruling, the court criticized the expert on the behalf of the plaintiffs, stating that his testimony lacked a sufficient factual basis value and reliable basis. In addition, the court held that the Bedouins' own internal documentation indicates they were well aware of the legal requirement to register the lands in the Land Registry, but chose not to do so. The judge affirmed that the practice of removal of encroached settlements carried out by the State is acceptable and legal.\n\nIn spite of the court ruling, the Al-Araqeeb residents continued to erect structures at the site. On April 23 and May 23, 2012, Al-Araqeeb was razed again. It was demolished for the 49th time in April 2013.\n\nIn 2014, \"Israeli authorities allegedly issued eviction orders to dead people\" in Al-Araqeeb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25448862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25448862", "title": "Alexander Kellner", "text": "Alexander Kellner\n\nAlexander Wilhelm Armin Kellner (born September 26, 1961) is a Brazilian geologist and paleontologist who is a leading expert in the field of studying pterosaurs. His research has focused mainly on fossil reptiles from the Cretaceous Period, including extinct dinosaurs and crocodylomorphs.\n\nKellner has over 500 publications to his name, has published more than 160 primary studies and two science books. He has participated in paleontological expeditions to many locations including Brazil, Chile, Iran, the United States, Argentina, China, and Antarctica. \n\nHis scientific achievements include the description of more than thirty species. For his work he has received several honors and prizes, including the TWAS Prize for Earth Sciences from the The World Academy of Sciences and admission to the National Order of Scientific Merit (class Comendador), one Brazil's most prestigious awards.\n\nKellner was born in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, son of a German father and Austrian mother. In his early childhood he moved with his parents to Brazil, where he became naturalised Brazilian.\n\nIn Rio de Janeiro he received a primary and secondary education at the bilingual Escola Alemã Corcovado. He began studying geology at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) in 1981. As a student, he soon began researching fossil vertebrates, particularly reptiles from Brazil's Cretaceous Period. His studies focused largely on pterosaur specimens from the geologic Santana Group, about which he published many papers in the late 1980s. He earned a Master of Science degree in geology at the UFRJ in 1991, a M.Phil degree in 1994, and a Ph.D. in 1996 from Columbia University in New York, in a joint program with the American Museum of Natural History. In 1997 he became a professor at the Federal University-owned National Museum of Rio de Janeiro and curator of its geological and paleontological departments. From 1998 to 2001, he served as the chairman of these departments and has been head of the zoology graduate program since 2008. Kellner is also chief editor of the \"Anais da Academia Brasileira de Ciências\", the official publication of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences.\n\nAs part of his work on flying reptiles, Kellner organised the Pterosaur Workshop at Pittsburgh, USA, in 1995, and the first pterosaur symposium ever held at the American Museum of Natural History in 1996. As well, he was involved in the organisation of several scientific meetings in Rio de Janeiro such as the 31st International Geological Congress in 2000 and the 2nd Latin-American Congress of Vertebrate Paleontology in 2002.\n\nKellner has organized or taken part in several paleontological expeditions to many locations around the globe, including Brazil—Mato Grosso, Rio Grande do Sul and Ceará; the deserts of Atacama, Chile and Kerman, Iran; Montana in the United States; Patagonia in Argentina; the famous deposits of Liaoning, China, and James Ross Island in Antarctica.\n\nKellner has over 500 publications to his name (including abstracts and science articles). He has published more than 160 primary studies and two science books: \"Pterossauros - os senhores do céu do Brasil\" (\"Pterosaurs — Lords of the Brazilian Sky\") and the novel \"Na terra dos titãs\" (\"In the Land of the Titans\"). He has also taken part in documentaries about fossils (e.g., \"Antarctica - a Summer of 70 million Years\" and \"Dinosaur Hunters\").\n\nAs a result of his scientific activity he has received several honours, being appointed a member of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences in 1997. He is also an honourable member of the New York Paleontologial Society and the Paleontological Society of Chile. He is a research associate of the American Museum of Natural History and of the Chinese Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology.\n\nBesides his teaching activity, having advised over fifteen master and Ph.D. students, Kellner has been active in the propagation of scientific knowledge to the general public. He organised the 1999 exposition \"No Tempo dos Dinossauros\" (\"In the Time of the Dinosaurs\") at the Museum of Earth Sciences, which has been regarded as a landmark for the establishment of paleontology in Brazil, attracting the attention of the people of Brazilian to the studies of fossils. In 2006 he organized the mounting of the first large-scale dinosaur skeleton in Brazil, that of the sauropod \"Maxakalisaurus topai\", for which he received recognition from the Brazilian Congress. Since 2004 he has written a monthly column in \"Caçadores de Fósseis\" (Fossil Hunters), on the website \"Ciência Hoje On Line\", a project of the Brazilian Society for Scientific Progress.\n\nApart from studying their fossils, Kellner has performed important theoretical work on pterosaurs, including cladistic studies regarding their phylogeny. In this he is the founder of a distinctive Brazilian school of the study of pterosaurs, with its own favoured phylogenetic model, clade terminology and nomenclature. Rivalling models and nomenclatural choices have been provided by the influential British pterosaur researcher David Unwin.\n\nFor his achievements he has received several honours and prizes, including the TWAS Prize for Earth Sciences from the The World Academy of Sciences. He was admitted in the National Order of Scientific Merit(class Comendador), one the Brazilian Federal Government's most prestigious awards.\n\nKellner's scientific achievements include the description of more than thirty species, of which \"Santanaraptor\" \"placidus\" (1996, 1999) is among the best examples of soft tissue preservation, including blood vessels and muscle fibers, reported in any dinosaur. The pterosaur \"Thalassodromeus sethi\", which Kellner described in 2002 with his colleague Diogenes de Almeida Campos, allowed for the establishment of a new hypothesis regarding the use of the head crest in body temperature regulation of pterosaurs.\n\nA complete list of new species described and named by Kellner, sometimes in cooperation with other researchers, includes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293742", "title": "Atlases of the flora and fauna of Britain and Ireland", "text": "Atlases of the flora and fauna of Britain and Ireland\n\nThe biodiversity of Great Britain and Ireland is one of the most well-studied geographical areas of its size in the world. This biota work has resulted in the publication of distribution atlases for many taxonomic groups. This page lists these publications.\n\nA full atlas is generally regarded as a definitive work on distribution, whereas a provisional atlas is typically produced as an interim stage to show survey progress.\n\nOne of the bodies responsible for publishing a great number of distribution atlases is the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology. Each atlas presents 10 km² distribution maps for the species within its scope. Maps typically use different symbols to signify records from differing time-periods - solid symbols for 10-km squares (hectads) that have recent records, and unfilled symbols for 10-km squares for which only older records exist, according to a defined cut-off date.\n\nThe atlases are produced by the Biological Records Centre (BRC), which is run by the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, part of the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology based at CEH Wallingford, Crowmarsh Gifford, Oxfordshire. The data used to produce the maps is gathered by volunteer biological recorders and collated by the BRC Recording Schemes.\n\nThe atlases fall into two groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1195386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195386", "title": "Bill of sale", "text": "Bill of sale\n\nA bill of sale is a document that transfers ownership of goods from one person to another. It is used in situations where the former owner transfers possession of the goods to a new owner. Bills of sale may be used in a wide variety of transactions: people can sell their goods, exchange them, give them as gifts or mortgage them to get a loan. They can only be used:\nBills of sale exist at common law quite independently of any legislation. In England and Wales, they are regulated by two Victorian pieces of legislation: the Bills of Sale Act 1878 and the Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882. This area of the law was subject to review by the Law Commission, which published a proposal for change in 2017.\n\nThe term “bill of sale” originally referred to any writing by which an absolute disposition of personalty for value was effected or evidenced. A common feature of such dispositions is that the owner mortgagor remains in possession and exercises all the attendant rights of ownership, which may be so overwhelming as to induce a third party to accept the same chattel as a security for a grant, albeit without notice of the first mortgagee. This scenario made the bill of sale a veritable tool of fraud.\n\nThe evolution of various bills of sale laws, within the USA, was to curb the use of the bill of sale as a means of defrauding innocent persons. The first of such being the Bills of Sale Act 1854 which was repealed and re-enacted by the Bills of Sale Act 1878 which was almost on all fours with the 1854 act. Further developments led to the enactment of the Bills of Sale Act 1882.\n\nA bill of sale has been defined as a legal document made by the seller to a purchaser, reporting that on a specific date at a specific locality and for a particular sum of money or other value received, the seller sold to the purchaser a specific item of personal property, or parcel of real property of which he had lawful possession . The Black’s Law Dictionary on its part defines a bill of sale as “an instrument for the conveyance of title to personal property, absolutely or by way of security”. According to Omotola the bill of sale is “a form of legal mortgage of chattels”. Bullen and Leake and Jacobs define a bill of sale as “a document transferring a proprietary interest in personal chattels from one individual (the “grantor”) to another (the “grantee”), without possession being delivered to the grantee”.\n\nIn essence, a bill of sale is a written instrument showing the voluntary transfer of a right or interest or title to personal property, either by way of security or absolutely, from one person to another without the actual physical possession of the property leaving the owner and being delivered to the other party. It is clear from the definitions above that the bills of sale are essentially of two types: The absolute bill of sale and the conditional bill of sale.\n\nAbsolute bills of sale, which do not represent any form of security whatsoever, are simply documents evidencing assignments, transfers and other assurances of personal chattels, which are substantially no more than mere contracts of sale of goods covered by the common law of contract and the sale of goods law.\n\nThe conditional bill of sale refers to any assignment or transfer of personal chattels to a person by way of security for the payment of money. The conditional bill of sale creates a security in favour of the grantee of the bill whereby the grantee is given personal right of seizure giving right to a security interest of a possessory nature.\n\nThere are other forms of security over goods such as a pledge and contractual lien which also only give right to a security interest of a possessory nature.\n\nAn example of a conditional bill of sale can be found where a creditor gives a loan and has transferred to himself, as collateral or security for the loan, the title of the goods or other personal property of the debtor. The physical goods or other property however remains with the debtor.\n\nBills of sale have existed at common law since at least the Middle Ages, when they were most commonly used commercially in the shipping industry. As the general population began to own more personal goods in the Victorian era, bills of sale came to be used as a form of consumer credit. Lenders would extend credit on the security of:\"all and every the household goods, furniture, plate, linen, china, books, stock in trade, brewing utensils and all the effects.\"Most often, people would grant bills of sale over their goods as security for a loan. Borrowers would transfer ownership of their goods to the lender, while retaining possession of them when making repayments. When the loan was repaid, the borrower would regain ownership. Bills of sale used in this way are known as “security bills”.\n\nSometimes, bills of sale would transfer ownership outright, such as when a person sold their goods to another while retaining possession. Bills of sale used for purposes other than borrowing money are known as “absolute bills”.\n\nThe increased use of bills of sale in the Victorian era created a “false wealth” problem. Potential purchasers and other lenders could be misled into thinking that the person in possession of goods still owned them. The person in possession could sell the goods or use them to secure another loan. In both cases, the transaction was fraudulent, but the purchaser or lender had no way of discovering that the goods were already subject to a bill of sale.\n\nAs a result, Parliament passed the Bills of Sale Act 1878. This largely replicated the provisions of an earlier Bills of Sale Act 1854. It requires all bills of sale to be registered at the High Court so that interested third parties could check whether the person in possession has already transferred away ownership of goods.\n\nThe Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882 had a different purpose. The 1878 Act led to a rise in the use of security bills. Concerns were expressed that such transactions could lead “thousands of honest and respectable people to their ruin”. Parliament noted that:\"Many money-lenders advertised under the names of fictitious banks; and sometimes they advertised in this form – “A widow, with capital to spare, will be happy to lend on easy terms. Strict secrecy. Five per cent.”… Having entrapped a man into his office, the money-lender proceeded in this way – He produced a bill of sale containing a large number of clauses, which it was impossible for the borrower to read or understand in the time allowed...\"In response, Parliament enacted the 1882 Act, which was an early attempt at consumer protection.\n\nBoth the 1878 Act and the 1882 Act remain in force today. Absolute bills are regulated only by the 1878 Act. Security bills are regulated by the 1882 Act and the 1878 Act, to the extent that its provisions are consistent with those of the 1882 Act.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, bills of sale are overwhelmingly used in the form of so-called “logbook loans”. These are security bills secured on the borrower’s vehicle. Borrowers transfer ownership of their car, van or motorcycle to the logbook lender as security for the loan. While making repayments, borrowers keep possession of their vehicle and continue to use it. Borrowers hand the logbook lender the V5C registration document – or “logbook” – but this is purely symbolic and has no legal effect.\n\nThe law of bills of sale has been criticised on a number of occasions. The Crowther report in 1971 and the Diamond report in 1986 both considered the Acts, with the latter recommending repeal. \n\nIn its consultation paper, the Law Commission made a number of criticisms of the law as it stood in 2015. It proposed to replace the Bills of Sale Acts with a new Goods Mortgages Act.\n\nIn its consultation paper, the Law Commission identified five key problems with the Bills of Sale Acts:\nThe Law Commission proposed to replace the Bills of Sale Acts with a new Goods Mortgage Act that would address each of the criticisms identified in the consultation paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36026283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36026283", "title": "Buildings of the United States", "text": "Buildings of the United States\n\nBuildings of the United States is a multi-volume series of illustrated reference works. The series focuses on the architectural history and legacy of various States, regions, or metropolitan areas, \"identifying the rich cultural, economic, and geographical diversity of the United States as it is reflected in the architecture. . . \" The books in the series are intended as a resource for academics, architects, and preservationists, as well as guidebooks for the general public. Each volume is intended to be written by an individual expert or contributing experts. The series is sponsored by the Society of Architectural Historians, having established its editorial board, consisting of academics and representatives of the National Park Service, the Library of Congress, and the American Institute of Architects. As of 2012, the head of the editorial committee is Professor Emerita at Tulane University, Karen Kingsley, Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor. The Society also coordinates fundraising for the project.\n\nThe series is a planned 60-volume work. Work on the series was inspired by Nikolaus Pevsner's \"Buildings of England\" guidebooks. The Society has overseen the publication of 25 volumes since 1993. The series first 10 volumes were published by Oxford University Press and since 2006, it has been published by the University of Virginia Press. Its first four volumes (1993) on buildings in Alaska, the District of Columbia, Iowa, and Michigan (2nd ed. 2012) received American publishing awards, and its volumes on Colorado (1997) and Louisiana (2004) have also received honors. The most recent volume is New Orleans (2018). In addition to the foregoing, the existing series includes volumes on architecture in Arkansas (2018); Delaware (2008), Georgia: Savannah (2016), Hawaii (2011), Massachusetts: Metropolitan Boston (2009), Nevada (2000), North Dakota (2015), Philadelphia and Eastern Pennsylvania (2010), Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania (2007 and 2010), Rhode Island (2004), Texas: Central, South and Gulf Coast (2013), Virginia: Tidewater and Piedmont (2002), and Valley, Piedmont, Southside, and Southwest (2014), Vermont (2014), Wisconsin (2017), and West Virginia (2004).\n"}
{"id": "639399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639399", "title": "Chavacano", "text": "Chavacano\n\nChavacano or Chabacano refers to a number of Spanish-based creole language varieties spoken in the Philippines. The variety spoken in Zamboanga City, located in the southern Philippine island group of Mindanao, has the highest concentration of speakers. Other currently existing varieties are found in Cavite City and Ternate, located in the Cavite province on the island of Luzon. Chavacano is the only Spanish-based creole in Asia.\n\nThe different varieties of Chavacano differ in certain aspects like vocabulary but they are generally mutually intelligible by speakers of these varieties, especially between neighboring varieties. While a majority of the lexicon of the different Chavacano varieties derive from Spanish, their grammatical structures are generally similar to other Philippine languages. Among Philippine languages, it is the only one that is not an Austronesian language, but like Malayo-Polynesian languages, it uses reduplication.\n\nThe word \"\" is derived from Spanish, roughly meaning \"poor taste\" or \"vulgar\", though the term itself carries no negative connotations to contemporary speakers and has lost its original Spanish meaning.\n\nLinguists have identified at least six Spanish Creole varieties in the Philippines. Their classification is based on their substrate languages and the regions where they are commonly spoken. The three known varieties of Chavacano with Tagalog as their substrate language are the Luzon-based creoles of which are Caviteño (spoken in Cavite City), Bahra or Ternateño (spoken in Ternate, Cavite) and Ermiteño (once spoken in the old district of Ermita in Manila and is now extinct).\n\nThere exists a number of theories on how these different varieties of Chavacano have evolved and how they are related to one another. According to some linguists, Zamboangueño Chavacano is believed to have emanated from Caviteño Chavacano as evidenced by prominent Zamboangueño families who descended from Spanish Army officers (from Spain and Latin America), primarily Caviteño mestizos, stationed at Fort Pilar in the 19th century. When Caviteño officers recruited workers and technicians from Iloilo to man their sugar plantations and rice fields to reduce the local population's dependence on the Donativo de Zamboanga, taxes levied by the Spanish colonial government on the islanders to support the fort's operations. With the subsequent migration of Ilonggo traders to Zamboanga, the Zamboangueño Chavacano was infused with Ilonggo words as the previous migrant community was assimilated.\n\nMost of what appears to be Cebuano words in Zamboangueño Chavacano are actually Ilonggo. Although Zamboangueño Chavacano's contact with Cebuano began much earlier when Cebuano soldiers were stationed at Fort Pilar during the Spanish colonial period, it was not until closer to the middle of the 20th century that borrowings from Cebuano accelerated from more migration from the Visayas as well as the current migration from other Visayan-speaking areas of the Zamboanga Peninsula.\n\nZamboangueño (Chavacano) is spoken in Zamboanga City, Basilan, parts of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi, and Zamboanga del Sur, Zamboanga Sibugay and Zamboanga del Norte. Zamboangueño Chavacano is the most dynamically spoken language of Philippine Creole Spanish. It is used as a lingua franca between both Muslim and Christians in the Southwestern Mindanao and Basilan Islands communities. Its influence has spread to other islands in the west, such as the Jolo Islands, as well as to cotabato and davao in mindanao, and finally down south to Malaysia. The other varieties of Chavacano with Cebuano as their primary substrate language are the Mindanao-based creoles of which are Castellano Abakay or Chavacano de Davao (spoken in some areas of Davao), influenced by Chinese and Japanese, and divided into two subdalects, \"Castellano Abakay Chino\" and \"Castellano Abakay Japón\", and Cotabateño (spoken in Cotabato City). Both Cotabateño and Davaoeño are very similar to Zamboangueño.\n\nThe Chavacano languages in the Philippines are creoles based on Mexican Spanish and possibly, Portuguese. In some Chavacano languages, most words are common with Andalusian Spanish, but there are many words borrowed from Nahuatl, a language native to Central Mexico, which are not to be found in Andalusian Spanish. Although the vocabulary is largely Mexican, its grammar is mostly based on other Philippine languages, primarily Ilonggo, Tagalog and Cebuano. By way of Spanish, its vocabulary also has influences from the Native American languages Nahuatl, Taino, Quechua, etc. as can be evidenced by the words chongo (monkey, instead of Spanish \"), tiange (mini markets), etc.\n\nIn contrast with the Luzon-based dialects, the Zamboangueño variety has the most borrowings and/or influence from other Philippine Austronesian languages including Hiligaynon and Tagalog. Words of Malay origin are present in Zamboangueño variety; the latter is included because although not local in Philippines, it was the lingua franca of maritime Southeast Asia. As Zamboangueño variety is also spoken by Muslims, the variety has some Arabic loanwords, most commonly Islamic terms. Nevertheless, it is difficult to trace whether these words have their origin in the local population or in Spanish itself, given that Spanish has about 6,000 words of Arabic origin. Chavacano also contains loanwords of Persian origin which enter Chavacano via Malay and Arabic; both Persian and Spanish are Indo-European languages.\n\nThe highest number of Chavacano speakers are found in Zamboanga City and in the island province of Basilan. A significant number of Chavacano speakers are found in Cavite City and Ternate. There are also speakers in some areas in the provinces of Zamboanga del Sur, Zamboanga Sibugay, Zamboanga del Norte, Davao, and in Cotabato City. According to the official 2000 Philippine census, there were altogether 607,200 Chavacano speakers in the Philippines in that same year. The exact figure could be higher as the 2000 population of Zamboanga City, whose main language is Chavacano, far exceeded that census figure. Also, the figure does not include Chavacano speakers of the Filipino diaspora. Notwithstanding, Zamboangueño is the variety with the most number of speakers, being the official language of Zamboanga City whose population is now believed to be over a million; is also an official language in Basilan.\n\nChavacano speakers are possibly found elsewhere in Sabah as Sabah was under partial Spanish sovereignty and via Filipino refugees who escaped from Zamboanga Peninsula and predominantly Muslim areas of Mindanao like Sulu Archipelago.\n\nA small number of Zamboanga's indigenous peoples and of Basilan, such as the Tausugs, the Samals, and the Yakans, majority of those people are Sunni Muslims, also speak the language. In the close provinces of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi areas, there are Muslim speakers of the \"Chavacano de Zamboanga\", all of them are neighbors of Christians. Speakers of the \"Chavacano de Zamboanga\", both Christians and Muslims, also live in Lanao del Norte and Lanao del Sur. Christians and Muslims in Maguindanao, Sultan Kudarat, Cotabato, South Cotabato, Cotabato City, and Saranggani speak \"Chavacano de Zamboanga\", while some of those living in Davao Region speak \"Chavacano de Davao\". Take note that Zamboanga Peninsula, Basilan, Sulu, Tawi-tawi, Maguindanao, Cotabato City, Soccsksargen (region that composed of Sultan Kudarat, Cotabato, South Cotabato, and Saranggani) and Davao Region became part of short-lived Republic of Zamboanga, which chose Chavacano as official language.\n\nChavacano has been primarily and practically a spoken language. In the past, its use in literature was limited and chiefly local to the geographical location where the particular variety of the language was spoken. Its use as a spoken language far exceeds its use in literary work in comparison to the use of Spanish in the Philippines which was more successful as a written language than a spoken language. In recent years, there have been efforts to encourage the use of Chavacano as a written language, but the attempts were mostly minor attempts in folklore and religious literature and few pieces of written materials by the print media. In Zamboanga City, while the language is used by the mass media, the Catholic Church, education, and the local government, there have been few literary work written in Zamboangueño and access to these resources by the general public is not readily available. As Chavacano is spoken by Muslims as second language not only in Zamboanga City and Basilan but even in Sulu and Tawi-tawi, a number of Qur'an books are published in Chavacano.\n\nWhile the Mindanao-based creoles, Castellano Abakay, and Cotabateño are believed to be in danger of extinction, the Zamboangueño variety has been constantly evolving especially during half of the past century until the present. Zamboangueño has been experiencing an infusion of English and more Tagalog words and from other languages worldwide in its vocabulary and there have been debates and discussions among older Chavacano speakers, new generation of Chavacano speakers, scholars, linguists, sociologists, historians, and educators regarding its preservation, cultivation, standardisation, and its future as a Spanish-based creole. In 2000, The Instituto Cervantes in Manila hosted a conference entitled \"Shedding Light on the Chavacano Language\" at the Ateneo de Manila University. Starting school year 2012–13, the Zamboangueño variant has also been taught at schools following the implementation of the Department of Education's policy of Mother Tongue-Based Multilingual Education (MTB-MLE). It serves as a medium of instruction from kindergarten to grade 3 and as a separate subject (Mother Tongue) from grades 1 to 3.\n\nBecause of the grammatical structures, Castilian usage, and archaic Spanish words and phrases that Chavacano (especially Zamboangueño) uses, between speakers of both contemporary Spanish and Chavacano who are uninitiated, both languages appear to be non-intelligible to a large extent. For the initiated speakers, Chavacano can be intelligible to some Spanish speakers, and while most Spanish words can easily be understood by Chavacano speakers, many would struggle to understand a complete Spanish sentence.\n\nThe term Chavacano or Chabacano originated from the Spanish word \"\" which literally means \"poor taste\", \"vulgar\", \"common\", \"of low quality\", or \"coarse\". Chavacano has since evolved into a word of its own in different spellings with no negative connotation, but to simply being the name of the language itself.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial period, what is today called \"Chavacano\" was also called by the Spanish-speaking population as the \"\"lenguaje de la calle\", \"lenguaje de parian\" (language of the street), or \"lenguaje de cocina\"\" (kitchen Spanish) to refer to the Chabacano spoken by the people of Manila, particularly in Ermita) to distinguish it from the Spanish language spoken by those of the upper class, which consisted of Spaniards and educated Natives.\n\nLinguists use the term Philippine Creole Spanish which can be further divided into two geographic classifications: Manila Bay Creoles (which includes Ternateño and Caviteño) and Mindanao Creole (including Zamboangueño). The varieties of the language are geographically related. The Manila Bay Creoles have Tagalog as their substrate language while The Mindanao Creoles have Visayan (mostly Cebuano, Tausug, and Hiligaynon), Subanon, and Sama as their substrate language(s). \n\nChavacano/Chabacano speakers themselves have different preferences on whether to spell the language with a V or a B. They emphasize the difference between their variety and others using their own geographical location as a point of reference. Language speakers in Ternate also use the term Bahra to refer to their language and their city. Chavacano varieties usually have their area name attached to the language.\n\nThere is no definite conclusion on the precise history of how these different varieties of Chavacaano developed.\n\nPrior to the formation of what is today the Philippines, what existed were a collection of various islands and different ethnolinguistic groups inhabiting them. The Spanish colonization of the Philippine islands had lead to the presence of the Spanish language in the islands. Though Spanish was the language of the government, the various languages originating and found in the islands remained the mother tongue of the various inhabitants. Instead of using Spanish to spread Christianity, Spanish missionaries preferred to learn the various local languages. With over 300 years of Spanish colonial rule, the Spanish language came to influence the various Philippine languages to varying degrees by way of aspects like new loanwords and expressions.\n\nCreole languages (such as French-based creoles) have formed at various points in time around the world due to colonialism. As a result of contact between speakers of two mutually non-intelligible languages, creole languages have evolved in some cases to facilitate communication. This usually involves taking the vocubalury of another language and grammatical features of the native language. In contrast to the numerous French-based creole languages, only three creole languages have been found to be Spanish-based or heavily influenced: Papiamento, Palenquero, and Chavacano. In the Philippines, a major difficulty in tracing the development of Chabacano is the confusion attributed to in accounts of travelers to the Philippines between a coherent creole language, `broken Spanish', and fluent Spanish. The earliest believed attestation of a coherent creole language spoken in Cavite City comes from the Augustinian priest Martínez de Zúñiga who in his 1803 accounts of his travels in the Philippines, \"Estadismos de las Islas Filipinas\", notes that \"In Cavite and in its suburb of San Roque, a very corrupted Spanish is spoken, whose phraseology is entirely taken from the language of the country\". Mentions of a vernacular referred to as \"kitchen Spanish\" and \"language of the market\" (referring to the Manila variety), or other terms are found in a number of texts of the 19th century. However, the kind of vernacular referred to by these terms are imprecise and these terms may refer to a fully fledged creole or to a Spanish-pidgin spoken by Chinese and Filipino merchants.\n\nThe manner of formation of this type of speech found in a number of communities around the Philippines remains unclear today. A sample of what is today called \"Chabacano\" may be found in dialogues contained in chapters 18 (\"Supercherías\") and 28 (\"Tatakut\") of Filipino writer José Rizal's 1891 work \"El Filibusterismo\". The dialogue found in chapter 18 is:\n\nIn the 1883 work of German linguist Hugo Schuchardt \"Uber das Malaiospanische der Philippinen\", he presents fragments of texts and comments of what he calls \"Malayo-Spanish\". However, the first to give a general study and investigation of the varieties of Chavacano as a group was by Keith Whinnom in his 1956 work \"The Spanish Contact Vernaculars in the Philippine Islands \". Whinnom gives an overall view of the history and grammar of what he calls \"Ermitaño\" of Ermita in Manila, \"Caviteño\" of Cavite and \"Zamboangueño\" of Zamboanga. In it, he also postulated his monogenetic theory on the origin of these vernaculars.\n\nLinguists are unsettled on how these vernaculars formed and how they connect to one another, if any. There are many theories but the two main theories of the origin of Chavacano are: Whinnom's \"monogenetic theory\" and a \"parallel-development\" theory proposed by Frake in 1971.\n\nAccording to the Monogentic theory or one-way theory advanced by Whinnom, all varieties of Chavacano result from a single source and that varieties are related to each other.\n\nThe parallel development theory or two-way theory as advocated by Frake in 1971, the variants found in Luzon and Mindanao had evolved autonomously from each other.\n\nOn 23 June 1635, Zamboanga City became a permanent foothold of the Spanish government with the construction of the San José Fortress. Bombardment and harassment from pirates and raiders of the sultans of Mindanao and Jolo and the determination to spread Christianity further south (as Zamboanga was a crucial strategic location) of the Philippines forced the Spanish missionary friars to request reinforcements from the colonial government.\n\nThe military authorities decided to import labor from Luzon and the Visayas. Thus, the construction workforce eventually consisted of Spanish, Mexican and Peruvian soldiers, masons from Cavite (who comprised the majority), sacadas from Cebu and Iloilo, and those from the various local tribes of Zamboanga like the Samals and Subanons.\n\nLanguage differences made it difficult for one ethnic group to communicate with another. To add to this, work instructions were issued in Spanish. The majority of the workers were unschooled and therefore did not understand Spanish but needed to communicate with each other and the Spaniards. A pidgin developed and became a full-fledged creole language still in use today as a lingua franca and/or as official language, mainly in Zamboanga City.\n\nWhen the Sultanate of Sulu gave up its territories in Sulu Archipelago to Spain within late 1700s (Sulu Sultanate gave up Basilan to Spain in 1762, while Sulu and Tawi-tawi were not given up by sultanate because the Sulu Sultanate only recognized partial Spanish sovereignty to Sulu and Tawi-tawi), Spanish settlers and soldiers brought the language to the region until Spain, Germany, and United Kingdom signed an agreement named the Madrid Protocol of 1885 that recognized Spanish rule of Sulu Archipelago. Chavacano becomes a lingua franca of Sulu Archipelago (composing of Sulu, Tawi-tawi, Basilan); although North Borneo (now Sabah) is not included on the Spanish East Indies area as stated on the Protocol and control by the United Kingdom, Chavacano has still a little impact in Semporna.\n\nFrom then on, constant Spanish military reinforcements as well as increased presence of Spanish religious and educational institutions have fostered the Spanish creole.\n\nThe Merdicas (also spelled Mardicas or Mardikas) were Catholic natives of the islands of Ternate and Tidore of the Moluccas, converted during the Portuguese occupation of the islands by Jesuit missionaries. The islands were later captured by the Spanish who vied for their control with the Dutch. In 1663, the Spanish garrison in Ternate were forced to pull out to defend Manila against an impending invasion by the Chinese pirate Koxinga (sacrificing the Moluccas to the Dutch in doing so). A number of Merdicas volunteered to help, eventually being resettled in a sandbar near the mouth of the Maragondon river (known as the \"Barra de Maragondon\") and Tanza, Cavite, Manila.\n\nThe invasion did not occur as Koxinga fell ill and died. The Merdicas community eventually integrated into the local population. Today, the place is called Ternate after the island of Ternate in the Moluccas, and the descendants of the Merdicas continue to use their Spanish creole (with Portuguese influence) which came to be known as Caviteño or Ternateño Chavacano.\n\n\nThe following is sample of Ermitaño taken from the April 1917 publication of \"The Philippine Review\", the poem was written by the Filipino Spanish-language writer Jesús Balmori (who also wrote other texts in Ermitaño) and is entitled \"Na Maldito Arena\":\n\nTa sumí el sol na fondo del mar, y el mar, callao el boca. Ta jugá con su mana marejadas com'un muchacha nerviosa con su mana pulseras. El viento no mas el que ta alborota, el viento y el pecho de Felisa que ta lleno de sampaguitas na fuera y lleno de suspiros na dentro...\n\nAccording to Keith Whinnom's \"Spanish contact vernaculars in the Philippine Islands\" (1956), there were reportedly still an estimated 12,000 speakers in 1942 of Ermitaño. After World War II, much of Manila was destroyed and its citizens displaced. This variety is considered to be virtually extinct.\n\n\nChavacano de Cavite:\n\nPuede nisos habla: que grande nga pala el sacrificio del mga héroe para niso independencia. Debe nga pala no niso ulvida con ilos. Ansina ya ba numa? Debe haci niso mga cosa para dale sabi que ta aprecia niso con el mga héroe. Que preparao din niso haci sacrificio para el pueblo. Que laya? Escribi mga novela como Jose Rizal?\n\nSpanish:\n\nNosotros podemos decir qué grandes sacrificios ofrecieron nuestros héroes para obtener nuestra independencia. Entonces, no nos olvidemos de ellos. ¿Como lo logramos? Necesitamos hacer cosas para que sepan que apreciamos a nuestros héroes; que estamos preparados tambien a sacrificar por la nación. ¿Cómo lo haremos? ¿Hay que escribir también novelas como José Rizal?\n\nEnglish:\n\nWe can say what great sacrifices our heroes have done to achieve our independence. We should therefore not forget them. Is it like this? We should do things to let it be known that we appreciate the heroes; that we are prepared to make sacrifices for our people. How? Should we write novels like José Rizal?\n\nBelow are samples of dialogues and sentences of Chabacano de Davao in two spoken forms: Castellano Abakay Chino (Chinese style) by the Chinese speakers of Chabacano and Castellano Abakay Japon (Japanese style) by the Japanese speakers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEstimated English translations provided with Japanese words.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChavacano (especially Zamboangueño) has two registers or sociolects: The common, colloquial, vulgar or familiar and the formal register/sociolects. Broadly speaking, the formal register is closer to Spanish, and the colloquial register to the local Austronesian languages.\n\nIn the common, colloquial, vulgar or familiar register/sociolect, words of local origin or a mixture of local and Spanish words predominate. The common or familiar register is used ordinarily when conversing with people of equal or lower status in society. It is also used more commonly in the family, with friends and acquaintances. Its use is of general acceptance and usage.\n\nIn the formal register/sociolect, words of Spanish origin or Spanish words predominate. The formal register is used especially when conversing with people of higher status in society. It is also used when conversing with elders (especially in the family and with older relatives) and those in authority. It is more commonly used by older generations, by Zamboangueño mestizos, and in the barrios. It is the form used in speeches, education, media, and writing. The formal register used in conversation is sometimes mixed with some degree of colloquial register.\n\nThe following examples show a contrast between the usage of formal words and common or familiar words in Chavacano:\n\nChavacano is written using the Latin script. As Chavacano has mostly been a spoken language than a written one, multiple ways of writing the different varieties of Chavacano exist. Most published Chavacano texts utilize spelling systems nearly identical to Spanish, adjusting certain spellings of words to reflect how they are pronounced by native Chavacano speakers. Since the propagation of the usage of the Filipino language in education and the media as the national language, Filipino's orthography has affected how certain persons might spell Chavacano, especially since recent generations have grown unfamiliar with Spanish orthography; Most published works, and the general media, however more often retain Spanish-based spelling systems.\n\nThe kind of writing system used to write Chavacano may differ according to the writer of the text. Writing may be written using a Spanish-derived writing system, where all words (including words of local origin) are spelled adhering to basic Spanish orthographic rules; it may also be written \"phonetically\", similar to the modern orthography of Filipino; another writing style uses a mixture of the two, spelling words based on an etymological approach.\n\nin Zamboanga, an etymological-based approach was formally recently endorsed by the local city government and this is the system used in public schools as part of the mother-tongue policy of the Department of Education for kindergarten to grade 3. In principle, words of Spanish origin are to be spelled using Spanish rules while Chavacano words of local origin are spelled in the manner according to their origin. Thus, the letter \"k\" appear mostly in words of Austronesian origin or in loanwords from other Philippine languages (words such as \"kame\", \"kita\", \"kanamon\", \"kaninyo\").\nIt is uncommon in modern written works to include the acute accent and the trema in writing except in linguistic or highly formalized texts. Also, the letters \"ñ\" and \"ll\" are sometimes replaced by \"ny\" and \"ly\" in informal texts.\n\nThe Chavacano alphabet has 30 letters, including <ch>, <ll>, <ñ> and <rr>:\n\na, b, c, ch, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, ll, m, n, ñ, o, p, q, r, rr, s, t, u, v, w, x, y, z\n\nOther letter combinations include \"rr\" (erre), which is pronounced or , and \"ng,\" which is pronounced . Another combination was \"ñg,\" which was pronounced but is now obsolete and is only written as \"ng\".\n\nSome sounds are not represented in the Chavacano written language. These sounds are mostly in words of Philippine and foreign origin. Furthermore, the pronunciation of some words of Spanish origin have become distorted or Philippinized in modern Chavacano. Some vowels have become allophonized ('e' and 'o' becomes 'i' and 'u' in some words) and some consonants have changed their pronunciation. (i.e. \"escoger\" became \"iscují\" in informal speech; \"tiene\" ; \"Dios\" ; \"Castilla\" became instead of ).\n\nGlottal stops, as in Filipino languages, are not also indicated (â, ê, î, ô, û). These sounds are mainly found in words of Philippine origin and are only indicated in dictionaries (i.e. jendê = not; olê = again) and when they are, the circumflex accent is used.\n\nOther pronunciation changes in some words of Spanish origin include:\n\n[b, d, g] between vowels which are fricative allophones are pronounced as they are in Chavacano.\n\nChavacano is a language with the verb–subject–object sentence order. This is because it follows the Hiligaynon or Tagalog grammatical structures. However, the subject–verb–object order does exist in Chavacano but only for emphasis purposes (see below). New generations have been slowly and vigorously using the S-V-O pattern mainly because of the influence of the English language. These recent practices have been most prevalent and evident in the mass media particularly among Chavacano newswriters who translate news leads from English or Tagalog to Chavacano where the \"who\" is emphasized more than the \"what\". Because the mass media represent \"legitimacy\", it is understood by Chavacano speakers (particularly Zamboangueños) that the S-V-O sentence structure used by Chavacano journalists is standardized.\n\nChavacano generally follows the simple verb–subject–object or verb–object–subject sentence structure typical of Hiligaynon or Tagalog in declarative affirmative sentences:\n\nThe subject always appears after the verb, and in cases where pronominal subjects (such as personal pronouns) are used in sentences, they will never occur before the verb:\n\nWhen the predicate of the sentence is negated, Chavacano uses the words jendeh (from Tagalog ’hindi’ or Hiligaynon 'indi' which means ’no’; the Cebuano uses 'dili', which shows its remoteness from Chavacano as compared to Hiligaynon) to negate the verb in the present tense, no hay (which literally means ’none’) to negate the verb that was supposed to happen in the past, and jendêh or nunca (which means ’no’ or ’never’) to negate the verb that will not or will never happen in the future respectively. This manner of negating the predicate always happens in the verb–subject–object or verb–object–subject sentence structure:\n\nPresent Tense\n\nPast Tense\n\nFuture Tense\n\nThe negator jendeh can appear before the subject in a subject–verb–object structure to negate the subject rather than the predicate in the present, past, and future tenses:\n\nPresent Tense\n\nPast Tense\n\nFuture Tense\n\nThe negator nunca can appear before the subject in a subject–verb–object structure to strongly negate (or denote impossibility) the subject rather than the predicate in the future tense:\n\nFuture Tense\n\nThe negator no hay and nunca can also appear before the subject to negate the predicate in a subject–verb–object structure in the past and future tenses respectively. Using nunca before the subject to negate the predicate in a subject–verb–object structure denotes strong negation or impossibility for the subject to perform the action in the future:\n\nPast Tense\n\nFuture Tense\n\nThe Chavacano definite article el precedes a singular noun or a plural marker (for a plural noun). The indefinite article un stays constant for gender as 'una' has almost completely disappeared in Chavacano, except for some phrases like \"una vez\". It also stays constant for number as for singular nouns. In Chavacano, it is quite common for el and un to appear together before a singular noun, the former to denote certainty and the latter to denote number:\n\nNouns in Chavacano are not always preceded by articles. Without an article, a noun is a generic reference:\n\nProper names of persons are preceded by the definite article si or the phrase un tal functioning as an indefinite article would:\n\nUnlike in Spanish, Chavacano nouns derived from Spanish do not follow gender rules in general. In Zamboangueño, the article 'el' basically precedes every singular noun. However, this rule is not rigid (especially in Zamboangueño) because the formal vocabulary mode wherein Spanish words predominate almost always is the preferred mode especially in writing. The Spanish article 'la' for feminine singular nouns does exist in Chavacano, though it occurs rarely and mostly in the formal medium of writing, such as poems and lyrics. When accompanying a Spanish feminine noun, the 'la' as the article is more tolerated than acceptable. Among the few exceptions where the 'la' occurs is as a formal prefix when addressing the Blessed Virgin Mary, perhaps more as an emphasis of her importance in Christian devotion. But the real article is still the 'el', which makes this use of a \"double article\" quite unique. Thus it is common to hear the Blessed Virgin addressed in Chavacano as 'el La Virgen Maria' (the \"L\" of the 'la' capitalized to signify its permanent position within the noun compound). In general, though, when in doubt, the article 'el' is always safe to use. Compare:\n\nAnd just like Spanish, Chavacano nouns can have gender but only when referring to persons. However, they are always masculine in the sense (Spanish context) that they are generally preceded by the article 'el'. Places and things are almost always masculine. The -o is dropped in masculine nouns and -a is added to make the noun feminine:\n\nNot all nouns referring to persons can become feminine nouns. In Chavacano, some names of persons are masculine (because of the preceding article 'el' in Spanish context) but do not end in -o.\n\nAll names of animals are always masculine—in Spanish context—preceded by the article 'el'.\n\nNames of places and things can be either masculine or feminine, but they are considered masculine in the Spanish context because the article 'el' always precedes the noun:\n\nIn Chavacano, plural nouns (whether masculine or feminine in Spanish context) are preceded by the retained singular masculine Spanish article 'el'. The Spanish articles 'los' and 'las' have almost disappeared. They have been replaced by the modifier (a plural marker) 'maga/mana' which precedes the singular form of the noun. Maga comes from the native Hiligaynon 'maga' or the Tagalog 'mga'. The formation of the Chavacano plural form of the noun (el + maga/mana + singular noun form) applies whether in common, familiar or formal mode. It may be thought of as roughly equivalent to saying in English, \"the many (noun)\" instead of \"the (noun)s\".\n\nThere are some Chavacano speakers (especially older Caviteño or Zamboangueño speakers) who would tend to say 'mana' for 'maga'. 'Mana' is accepted and quite common, especially among older speakers, but when in doubt, the modifier 'maga' to pluralize nouns is safer to use.\n\nAgain, this rule is not rigid (especially in the Zamboangueño formal mode). The articles 'los' or 'las' do exist sometimes before nouns that are pluralized in the Spanish manner, and their use is quite accepted:\n\nWhen in doubt, it is always safe to use 'el' and 'maga or mana' to pluralize singular nouns:\n\nIn Chavacano, it is common for some nouns to become doubled when pluralized (called \"Reduplication\", a characteristic of the Malayo-Polynesian family of languages):\n\nBut note that in some cases, this \"reduplication\" signifies a difference in meaning. For example, 'el maga bata' means 'the children' but 'el maga bata-bata' means one's followers or subordinates, as is a gang or mob.\n\nIn general, the suffixes -s, -as, -os to pluralize nouns in Spanish have also almost disappeared in Chavacano. However, the formation of plural nouns with suffixes ending in -s, -as, and -os are accepted. Basically, the singular form of the noun is retained, and it becomes plural because of the preceding modifier/plural marker 'maga' or 'mana':\n\nAdding the suffix -es to some nouns is quite common and accepted. Nouns ending in -cion can be also be pluralized by adding the suffix -es:\n\nHowever, it is safer to use the general rule (when in doubt) of retaining the singular form of the noun preceded by the modifier/plural marker 'maga' or 'mana':\n\nChavacano pronouns are based on Spanish and native sources; many of the pronouns are not used in either but may be derived in part.\n\nIn contrast to the other varieties of Chavacano, the variety spoken in Zamboanga uses more pronouns derived from a native Philippine language (I.e. Hiligaynon) in addition to Spanish. In Zamboangueño, there are three different levels of usage for certain pronouns depending on the level of familiarity between the speaker and the addressee, the status of both in family and society, or the mood of the speaker and addressee at the particular moment: \"common\", \"familiar\", and \"formal\". The common forms are, particularly in the second and third person plural, derived from Cebuano while most familiar and formal forms are from Spanish. The \"common forms\" are used to address a person below or of equal social or family status or to someone is who is acquainted. The common forms are used to regard no formality or courtesy in conversation. Its use can also mean rudeness, impoliteness or offensiveness. The \"familiar forms\" are used to address someone of equal social or family status. It indicates courteousness, and is commonly used in public conversations, the broadcast media, and in education. The \"formal forms\" are used to address someone older and/or higher in social or family status. It is the form used in writing.\n\nAdditionally, Zamboangueño is the only variety of Chavacano which distinguishes between the inclusive we (\"kita\") – including the person spoken to (the addressee) – and the exclusive we (\"kame\") – excluding the person spoken to (the addressee) – in the first person plural except in the formal form where \"nosotros\" is used for both.\n\nBelow is a table comparing the personal pronouns in three varieties of Chavacano.\n\nThe usage modes also exist in the possessive pronouns especially in Zamboangueño. \"Amon\", \"Aton\", \"ila\" and \"inyo\" are obviously of Hiligaynon(Ilonggo) but not Cebuano(Bisaya) origins, and when used as pronouns, they are of either the common or familiar mode. The inclusive and exclusive characteristics peculiar to Zamboangueño appear again in the 1st person plural. Below is a table of the possessive pronouns in the Chavacano de Zamboanga:\n\nIn Zamboangueño, Chavacano verbs are mostly Spanish in origin. In contrast with the other varieties, there is rarely a Zamboangueño verb that is based on or has its origin from other Philippine languages. Hence, verbs contribute much of the Spanish vocabulary in Chavacano de Zamboanga.\n\nGenerally, the simple form of the Zamboangueño verb is based upon the infinitive of the Spanish verb, minus the final /r/. For example, \"continuar\", \"hablar\", \"poner\", \"recibir\", and \"llevar\" become \"continuá\", \"hablá\", \"poné\", \"recibí\", and \"llevá\" with the accent called \"acento agudo\" on the final syllable.\n\nThere are some rare exceptions. Some verbs are not derived from infinitives but from words that are technically Spanish phrases or from other Spanish verbs. For example, \"dar\" (give) does not become 'da' but \"dale\" (give) (literally in Spanish, to \"give it\" [verb phrase]). In this case, \"dale\" has nothing to do with the Spanish infinitive \"dar\". The Chavacano \"brinca\" (to hop) is from Spanish \"brincar\" which means the same thing.\n\nChavacano of Zamboangueño uses the words \"ya\" (from Spanish \"ya\" [already]), \"ta\" (from Spanish \"está\" [is]), and \"ay\" plus the simple form of the verb to convey the basic tenses of past, present, and future respectively:\n\nThe Chabacano of Cavite uses the words \"ya\", \"ta\", and \"di\" plus the simple form of the verb to convey the basic tenses of past, present, and future respectively:\n\nWhile the Chabacano of Ternate (Bahra) uses the words \"a\", \"ta\", and \"di\" plus the simple form of the verb to convey the basic tenses of past, present, and future respectively:\nUnlike in the Zamboangueño, Caviteño, and Ternateño, Chabacano Abakay (Davaoeño) doesn't have the \"ya\" and \"ta\" prefix. The infinitives and their conjugations are somehow retained, and there are some that have simplified conjugations:\n\nIn Zamboangueño, there are three ways to express that the verb is in the present perfect. First, \"ya\" can appear both before and after the main verb to express that in the present perspective, the action has already been completed somewhere in the past with the accent falling on the final \"ya\". Second, \"ta\" and \"ya\" can appear before and after the verb respectively to express that the action was expected to happen in the past (but did not happen), is still expected to happen in the present, and actually the expectation has been met (the verb occurs in the present). And third, a verb between \"ta\" and \"pa\" means an action started in the past and still continues in the present:\n\nThe past perfect exists in Chavacano. The words \"antes\" (before) and \"despues\" (after) can be used between two sentences in the simple past form to show which verb came first. The words \"antes\" (before) and \"despues\" (after) can also be used between a sentence in the present perfect using \"ya\" + verb + \"ya\" and another sentence in the simple past tense:\n\nZamboangueño Chavacano uses a verb between \"ay\" and \"ya\" to denote the future perfect and past perfect respectively:\n\nZamboangueño Chavacano also uses a verb between \"ta\" and \"ya\" to denote the present perfect:\n\nTo form the Zamboangueño Chavacano active voice, Zamboangueños follow the pattern:\n\nEl maga soldao ya mata con el criminal\nThe soldiers killed the criminal.\n\nAs illustrated above, active (causative) voice is formed by placing the doer \"el maga soldao\" before the verb phrase \"ya mata\" and then the object \"el criminal\" as indicated by the particle \"con\"\n\nTraditionally, Zamboangueño does not have a passive construction of its own.\n\nChabacano has preserved plenty of archaic Spanish phrases and words in its vocabulary that modern Spanish no longer uses; for example:\n\nOn the other hand, some words from the language spoken in Spain have evolved or have acquired totally different meanings in Chavacano. Hence, for Castillian speakers who would encounter Chavacano speakers, some words familiar to them have become false friends. Some examples of false friends are:\n\n\n\n(http://www.evri.com/media/article;jsessionid=ud7mj8tleegi?title=Home+|+Zamboanga+ChavacanoZamboanga+Chavacano+|+by+Jose+Genaro+...&page=http://www.josegenaroyapaizon.com/&referring_uri=/location/chavacano-language-0x398c30%3Bjsessionid%3Dud7mj8tleegi&referring_title=Evri)\n\n"}
{"id": "45252470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45252470", "title": "Chinese Canadian Military Museum Society", "text": "Chinese Canadian Military Museum Society\n\nThe Chinese Canadian Military Museum Society (CCMMS) is located in Vancouver, on the second floor of the Chinese Cultural Centre. It was created in 1998 and maintains a museum in that city.\n\nThe museum has given temporary displays to the Canadian War Museum in Ottawa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4698944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4698944", "title": "Comparison of issue-tracking systems", "text": "Comparison of issue-tracking systems\n\nThis article is a comparison of issue tracking systems that are notable, including bug tracking systems, help desk and service desk issue tracking systems, as well as asset management systems. The comparison includes client-server application, distributed and hosted systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "25790753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25790753", "title": "Covert (linguistics)", "text": "Covert (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a feature of a word or phrase is said to be covert if there is no surface evidence of its existence within that word or phrase. For example, many languages have covert grammatical gender in nouns, in that there is no way to tell from the form of a noun which gender it is; gender only becomes apparent in, for example, articles and adjectival agreement, which depend on gender. In German instruction, the article (\"die\", \"der\", \"das\") is generally taught along with a noun, so that the student may remember which gender the noun is. In French, grammatical number is largely covert: the singular and plural forms of most nouns are identical in pronunciation. However, number is still relevant, as it affects articles and verbal agreement, so it is still logical to say that one instance of a noun is singular, and that another instance, pronounced identically, is plural.\n\nA covert feature is different from a null morpheme, such as the English singular, which is marked by the \"absence\" of a morpheme that occurs elsewhere. That is, whereas in English the null-marked singular contrasts with an overt \"-s\" plural in most nouns, in French both singular and plural are null; in English it is clear that \"cat\" is singular, because it is not the plural \"cats\", whereas in spoken French, it cannot be known whether \"chat(s)\" spoken in isolation is singular or plural. \n\n"}
{"id": "46903264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46903264", "title": "Creative Market", "text": "Creative Market\n\nCreative Market is an online marketplace for community-generated design assets. The company sells graphics, WordPress themes, stock photography, and other digital goods for use by web creatives. Creative Market has over one million users and more than 250,000 purchasable items. It was founded in 2012 by Aaron Epstein, Chris Williams, and Darius A. Monsef IV in San Francisco, California.\n\nCreative Market has undergone three investment rounds, raising funds from notable Silicon Valley investors including 500 Startups, Y Combinator, CrunchFund, SV Angel, and Alexis Ohanian. In February, 2014, the company was acquired by American multinational software corporation Autodesk for an undisclosed amount.\n\nCreative Market first began in 2011 as a venture between Aaron Epstein, Chris Williams, and Darius A. Monsef IV. Epstein, Williams, and Monsef were the co-founders of COLOURlovers, a Y Combinator-backed social network service that provides color inspiration for both personal and professional creative projects. The co-founders recognized that COLOURlovers was in need of a marketplace to help its community members exchange the digital goods they were creating, and hence created Creative Market.\n\nIn May, 2011, the company raised $1,000,000 from 500 Startups and other investors. In June, 2012, it raised an additional $1,300,000 from a consortium of investors, including 500 Startups, CrunchFund, SV Angel, Longworth Venture Partners, Ludilow Ventures, and Alexis Ohanian. In early 2013, the team hired Zack Onisko to lead its growth efforts, who previously served as BranchOut's Director of Growth.\n\nIn April 2014, the team launched a Photoshop extension that allowed designers to preview and purchase Creative Market's digital assets directly within Photoshop itself. This made it easier for designers to find and integrate third-party digital assets within the workflow of their existing graphic design environments.\n\nIn February 2014, Creative Market was acquired by Autodesk. The amount of the acquisition was not publicly announced. The entirety of the Creative Market team stayed with the company through the acquisition.\n\nCreative Market's community members buy and sell creative assets for use in design and marketing projects. Assets include vector graphics, website templates, stock photography, document templates, fonts, and miscellaneous creative goods. As of mid-2015, over 250,000 products were available for purchase on Creative Market.\n\nCreative Market's content is submitted by its users through \"shops.\" On behalf of its shop owners, Creative Market handles the distribution, payment processing, support, and assisted marketing for its products. Sellers retain 70% of the sale price on their goods, are not bound to exclusivity agreements with Creative Market, and set their own prices on goods they sell through the platform. The platform also provides sales statistics and a customer-seller messaging system.\n\nAs a form of content marketing, the company regularly runs promotions on bundles containing discounted creative goods.\n\nIn December 2014, Creative Market launched its \"Pay it Forward\" bundle in partnership with various companies in the web design space, including Dribbble, Scribd, Skillshare, and others. The bundle offered $4,500 USD worth of digital assets under a pay what you want pricing model. All proceeds went to Watsi, a not-for-profit platform that enables individual donors to directly fund the medical care procedures for individuals in developing countries.\n\nOver 18,000 bundles were purchased, totaling $150,000 USD in funds raised, which amounted to over 250 financed healthcare procedures for patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2901141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2901141", "title": "Domain parking", "text": "Domain parking\n\nDomain parking refers to the registration of an internet domain name without that domain being associated with any services such as e-mail or a website. This may have been done with a view to reserving the domain name for future development, and to protect against the possibility of cybersquatting. Since the domain name registrar will have set name servers for the domain, the registrar or reseller potentially has use of the domain rather than the final registrant.\n\nDomain parking can be classified as monetized and non-monetized. In the former, advertisements are shown to visitors and the domain is \"monetized\". In the latter, an \"Under Construction\" or a \"Coming Soon\" message may or may not be put up on the domain by the registrar or reseller. This is a single-page website that people see when they type the domain name or follow a link in a web browser. Domain names can be parked before a web site is ready for launching.\n\nDomain parking may also refer to an advertising practice, more precisely called \"parked domain monetization\", used primarily by domain name registrars and internet advertising publishers to monetize type-in traffic visiting a parked or \"under-developed\" domain name. The domain name will usually resolve to a web page containing advertising listings and links. These links will be targeted to the predicted interests of the visitor and may change dynamically based on the results that visitors click on. Usually the domain holder is paid based on how many links have been visited (e.g. pay per click) and on how beneficial those visits have been. The keywords for any given domain name provide clues as to the intent of the visitor before arriving.\n\nAnother use of domain parking is to be a placeholder for an existing web site. The domain holder might also choose to redirect a domain to another website it has registered, either through URL redirection, domain cloaking or by pointing it as an alias of the main domain, although if this is done by the ultimate registrant, the domain is then in use, rather than parked. \n\nExpired domains that were formerly websites are also sought after for parked domain monetization. A domain that was used as a website and is allowed to expire will still maintain most of its prior inbound links. These types of domains usually attract their largest amount of visitor traffic initially after being claimed from the domain drop lists. As website operators and search engines begin to remove the former inbound links, the traffic to the parked domain will begin to decline. The process of re-registering expired names is known as \"dropcatching\" and various domain name registries have differing views on it.\n\nOn domains with a 'one-click' implementation, a click on a keyword is not necessary to generate ad revenue. The ads are targeted based on the domain name. Domains with 'two-click' implementations require a click on a keyword or a keyword search to generate ad revenue.\n\nThere are several companies that actively cater to domain name holders and act as middlemen to serve advertisements on parking pages. The parking pages are propagated automatically on a domain holder's web property when they either change the name servers or forward the URL.\n"}
{"id": "7387737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7387737", "title": "Eloise at Christmastime", "text": "Eloise at Christmastime\n\nEloise at Christmastime is a 2003 live-action film based on the 1958 book of the same name written by Kay Thompson and illustrated by Hilary Knight. The film was produced by Handmade Films and DiNovi Pictures for Walt Disney Television with distribution handled by the ABC Television Network. It was released on both VHS and DVD in 2003 by Buena Vista Home Entertainment. As of 2009, the movie was shown in the 25 Days of Christmas programming block on ABC Family, but it was not part of the block in 2010. In 2011 to 2013, it was aired on the Hallmark Channel as part of their \"Countdown to Christmas\". In 2016, it was aired on Discovery Family.\n\nThe film stars young Sofia Vassilieva as Eloise, a six-year-old girl who lives in the penthouse at the top of the Plaza Hotel in New York City.\n\nThis story takes place immediately after the events of \"Eloise at the Plaza\"; Eloise receives a package full of Spy stuff from her friend Leon, the supporting character in the previous film who did spy work with Eloise.\n\nThe movie begins with a shot of the Hotel Lobby, with a large pink gift box leaning on the display table, in the middle of the room. The hotel manager, Mr. Salamone, asks one of the staff to take the box to the package room. Two of the staff take the gift box to the package room. When they leave, the box is opened and we see Eloise crawling out. Eloise is on a mission to find any presents in the package room from her mother, who has taken a trip to Paris.\n\nWhen Eloise does not find any packages from her mother, she then leaves the room in a large mess. She skips towards the lobby, and pushes into a long line at the check-in desk and interrupts a conversation between Mr. Salamone and two patrons, wishing to upgrade their current hotel suite to a park-side view room.\n\nEloise asks Mr. Salamone if there have been any packages from her mother in Paris, and he replies that there hasn't. He pushes her away, telling Eloise that he is currently very busy. Eloise pushes in the line again, offering Mr. Salamone some unnecessary assistance. Mr. Salamone declines, pushing Eloise away from the hectic line.\n\nEloise leaves, but is instantly back in a flash, when she notices a suspicious man waiting in the queue. She thinks that this patron is a spy, but Mr. Salamone declines, and instantly changes the subject so that Eloise can leave the line. He requests Eloise to look out for the hotel's Christmas Tree Delivery, which is due to be at the Plaza any moment. He tells Eloise to inform him when the delivery arrives.\n\nEloise leaves the line, and tells the \"spy\" that she is keeping her eye on him.\n\nThe main focal point of the story deals with the impending marriage between Rachel Peabody, the hotel owner's daughter, and a bachelor named Brooks Oliver, who was chosen by Rachel's family to be her husband.\n\nEloise eventually learned that Oliver is into doing something suspicious. She also found out that Rachel had taken a liking to Bill, a room service waiter and one of her friends, four years earlier. When Mr. Peabody became aware of his daughter's relationship with Bill, he then sent his daughter to a university, hoping to break his daughter's ties with the waiter. Eloise then intervened with the relationship, much to the disappointment of Rachel's father.\n\nShe then succeeded at restoring Bill and Rachel's romance with each other; Oliver is then arrested for forgery, and Mrs. Thornton, who was in danger of being evicted, is granted a permanent stay at the Plaza. And to top it off, Eloise's mom arrives and they rejoice.\n\n"}
{"id": "10085429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10085429", "title": "Gülhane Park", "text": "Gülhane Park\n\nGülhane Park (, \"Rosehouse Park\"; from Persian: \"Gulkhāna\", \"house of flowers\") is a historical urban park in the Eminönü district of Istanbul, Turkey; it is adjacent to and on the grounds of the Topkapı Palace. The south entrance of the park sports one of the larger gates of the palace. It is the oldest and one of the most expansive public parks in Istanbul.\n\nThe namesake of the park, the Gülhane (\"Rosehouse\") present on the grounds, was the place where the 1839 Edict of Gülhane ( or \"Gülhane Hatt-ı Şerif-î\") was proclaimed. The edict launched the Tanzimat reforms in the Ottoman Empire, which modernized the empire and included changes such as the equalization of all Ottoman citizens, regardless of religion, before the law. The proclamation was made by Grand Vizier Mustafa Reşid Pasha, a leading statesman, diplomat, and reformer in the Empire.\n\nGülhane Park was once part of the outer garden of Topkapı Palace and mainly consisted of a grove. A section of the outer garden was planned as a park by the municipality and opened to the public in 1912. The park previously contained recreation areas, coffee houses, playgrounds etc. Later, a small zoo was opened within the park.\nThe first statue of Atatürk in Turkey was erected in the park in 1926, sculpted by Heinrich Krippel.\n\nThe park underwent a major renovation in recent years; the removal of the zoo, fun fair and picnic grounds affecting an increase in open space. The excursion routes were re-arranged and the big pool was renovated in a modern style. With concrete structures removed the park regained the natural landscape of the 1950s, revealing trees dating from the 1800s.\nThe Museum of The History of Science and Technology in Islam is located in the former stables of Topkapı Palace, on the western edge of the park. It was opened in May 2008 by the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The museum features 140 replicas of inventions of the 8th to 16th centuries, from astronomy, geography, chemistry, surveying, optics, medicine, architecture, physics and warfare.\n\nThe old barracks within the area of Gülhane is expected to be converted to a cultural center in due course; the center will host a library and exhibition hall together with a workshop on kilim and handicrafts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "454638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=454638", "title": "Himmelsbrief", "text": "Himmelsbrief\n\nHimmelsbrief also known as a \"heaven's letter\" (Bilardi, 2009), OR a \"heavenly letter\" (Kerr, 2002), is a name for religious documents said to have been written by God or a divine agent. Their purpose is to protect the bearer or place from all evil and danger; however, there is a price for their protection. Bearers will only be protected so long as they abide by the moral covenants detailed in the letter. (Bilardi, 2009) \n\nThey are often said to have miraculously \"fallen from sky\", claim protection for owners of a copy (encouraging memetic replication) and punishment for disbelievers.\n\nSome authors reserve the name for Christian apocryphal documents, but similar pieces are found in Islam, Hinduism and pre-Christian religions.\n\nHippolytus of Rome mentions one in \"Refutation of All Heresies\" (third century), and the earlier full text is a Latin one dated in the 6th century.\n\nWhile preaching, Jacob, the organizer of the Crusade of the Shepherds, held one which was allegedly given by the Virgin Mary.\n\nIn the Pennsylvania German community, they are part of Pow-wow tradition and contained Bible verses and other charms and assurances that their owners would be protected from death, injury, and other misfortune. The text of these letters is often written according to a long established formula (Herr, 2002) This is why it is sometimes believed that Himmelsbrief are the original chain letters. Pow-wow practitioners charged handsome sums for these magical letters; the price they commanded depended on the reputation of the practitioner. However, some traditions call for it to be given free of charge. A hand-written letter produced by a respected Hexenmeister or Braucher is regarded as a powerful talisman (Herr, 2002). Himmelsbrief may be written in order to communicate with someone departed, or to request assistance from God in heaven. (Herr, 2002) According to C.R.Bilardi in his book, The Red Church: or the Art of Pennsylvania German Braucherei (2009), two well known examples of these letters are the Koenigsberg Fire Brief of 1714 and the Magdeburg Himmelsbrief of 1783.\n\n\nBilardi, C.R. (2009) The Red Church: or the Art of Pennsylvania German Braucherie; Pendraig Publishing, Los Angeles, CA \n\nHerr, Karl (2002) Hex and Spellwork: The Magical Practice of the Pennsylvania Dutch; Weiser Books, Boston, MA\n\n"}
{"id": "11781050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11781050", "title": "ITerating", "text": "ITerating\n\nITerating is a Wiki-based software guide, where users can find, compare and give reviews to software products. Founded in October 2005, and based in New York, ITerating was created by CEO Nicolas Vandenberghe, who saw that there was an industry need for a comprehensive resource to help evaluate software solutions.\n\nThe site aims to be a reference guide for the IT industry and includes reviews, ratings, articles, and detailed product feature comparisons. ITerating uses Semantic Web tools (including RDF - Resource Description Framework) to combine user edits with Web service feeds from other sites.\n\nDesigned for use by developers and industry consultants, ITerating allows users to contribute to categories such as Software Engineering Tools; Website Design & Tools; Website Software Tools; Website & Communication Applications & Social Networking; or to create their own category if does not exist yet.\n\nIterating announced the addition of a Feature Matrix in June 2007, which allows users to dynamically create customized, side-by-side feature comparisons of software solutions.\n"}
{"id": "11379928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11379928", "title": "Industrial Cases Reports", "text": "Industrial Cases Reports\n\nThe Industrial Cases Reports is a series of law reports published by the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting. It focuses on employment law, covering cases from the Employment Appeal Tribunal and above.\n\n"}
{"id": "2360744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2360744", "title": "Information criterion (information technology)", "text": "Information criterion (information technology)\n\nIn information technology, information criteria are a core component of the COBIT framework that describes the intent of the objectives, namely the control of:\n\nEffectiveness deals with information being relevant and pertinent to the business process as well as being delivered in a timely, correct, consistent and usable manner.\n\nEfficiency concerns the provision of information through the optimal (most productive and economical) use of resources.\n\nConfidentiality concerns the protection of sensitive information from unauthorised disclosure.\n\nIntegrity relates to the accuracy and completeness of information as well as to its validity in accordance with business values and expectations.\n\nAvailability relates to information being available when required by the business process now and in the future. It also concerns the safeguarding of necessary resources and associated capabilities.\n\nCompliance deals with complying with the laws, regulations and contractual arrangements to which the business process is subject, i.e., externally imposed business criteria as well as internal policies.\n\nReliability relates to the provision of appropriate information for management to operate the entity and exercise its fiduciary and\ngovernance responsibilities.\n\nSource: CobiT 4.1\n"}
{"id": "45357460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45357460", "title": "Ingeram Codex", "text": "Ingeram Codex\n\nThe Ingeram Codex (also \"Codex Cotta\", Kunsthistorisches Museum A2302) is an armorial of the Holy Roman Empire\nmade by Hans Ingeram for Albert VI, Archduke of Austria in 1459.\nIt is largely concerned with the coats of arms of the \"Adelsgesellschaften\" (\"societies of nobles\") fashionable at the time, \na type of society or order formed by members of the lower nobility with the purpose of holding tournaments.\n\nThe manuscript has 142 paper pages with depictions of coats of arms mostly in groups of four or six per page.\n\nThe contents are divided into\nAfter the death of Albrecht VI, the manuscript passed to \nhis brother, emperor Frederick III, and later to Ladislaus Jagiellon, presumably via Matthias Corvinus, who would have gained its possession when he invaded Vienna in 1485.\nIn 1541, it was owned by cardinal Gasparo Contarini, and by 1751 it was in the antiquarian collection of count Löwenstein-Wertheim, whence it was acquired by publisher Johann Friedrich Cotta in the early 19th century. Sold to one Heinrich Höfflinger in 1929, the codex finally passed to Kunsthistorisches Museum in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "41165793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41165793", "title": "June L. Mazer Lesbian Archives", "text": "June L. Mazer Lesbian Archives\n\nThe June L. Mazer Lesbian Archives is a grass roots archive founded in 1981 in Oakland, California as the \"West Coast Lesbian Collections\". It is one of the largest archives in the world dedicated to collecting protecting and preserving lesbian and feminist women's history. 1985 the Archives moved to Southern California with the help of the Connexxus Women's Center and into the home of June Mazer and her partner Bunny Mac Culloch in Altadena, California. They took care of the Archives until June's death from cancer in 1987. Bunny changed the name and continued to run the Archives with the help of volunteers. In 1989 the Archive was moved from Altadena into the Wherle Building in West Hollywood. The Archives has been run strictly by volunteers for twenty-eight of its thirty-two years and has continued on supported by private donors and the City of West Hollywood. The Archives has created an outreach and collection-building partnership with the UCLA Libraries. \n\nIn 2011, Mazer co-hosted the 3rd GLBT ALMS (Archives, Libraries, Museums & Special Collections) Conference. \n\nIn 2015, Wolfe Video donated its complete library of lesbian movies to the Archives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3107576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3107576", "title": "List of booksellers' abbreviations", "text": "List of booksellers' abbreviations\n\nThis is a list of abbreviations commonly used by booksellers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45198797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45198797", "title": "List of sail codes", "text": "List of sail codes\n\nThis is a list of sail codes for sailing yachts and the old codes, used until 2000 by the International Sailing Federation.\n\nMainsail Country Codes must comply with World Sailing Racing Rules of Sailing. ISAF Rules of Sailing Appendix G1.2 specifies that national letters shall be clearly legible and of the same color. \n\nThey must be placed below the class insignias and above the sail number.\n"}
{"id": "3509440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509440", "title": "Mac Carthaigh's Book", "text": "Mac Carthaigh's Book\n\nMac Carthaigh’s Book is a collection of annals of the period AD 1114–1437 inclusive. It was compiled from earlier material by Fínghin Mac Carthaigh Mór (c. 1560–1640) an Irish nobleman who was imprisoned for years in London. He was a patron of learning and a scholar in his own right. While in London in 1633 he employed Diarmaid Ó Súilleabháin who also kept the book in his castle until it was sacked by Radhulbh MacAmlaoibh, then his clan took control of it, they copied and compiled these annals for him. \n\nThe original manuscript is currently preserved in the National Library of Ireland. The annals were edited and translated by Séamus Ó hInnse and published in 1947 by the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies under the title ‘Miscellaneous Irish Annals’.\n\nMac Carthaigh's Book is important as one of the few native records of events in southern Ireland for the period it covers and it provides information on the effect the Norman Invasion had on Munster. Besides relying on other Irish annals it drew upon some foreign sources, notably Giraldus Cambrensis' \"Expugnatio Hibernica\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20124324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124324", "title": "Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law", "text": "Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law\n\nThe Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law (MPEPIL) is an online encyclopedia dealing with international law. It is published under the auspices of Professor Rüdiger Wolfrum, Director of the Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law and International Law. The initiative to compile the MPEPIL began in 2004 and the online version launched in September 2008. It represents a new edition of the \"Encyclopedia of Public International Law\" published between 1991 and 2001 by . In February 2012, the print edition was published by Oxford University Press. The encyclopedia is peer reviewed. \n\nIn a 2013 review of the work, Sean D. Murphy wrote that: \"All told, there is little question that the Max Planck Encyclopedia lives up to its claim as the definitive reference work for international law\"\n\n\"MPEPIL\" is an updated, comprehensive work covering the essential topics in international law. The new work is not just a revision of Rudolf Bernhardt’s encyclopedia. Instead, new authors completely rewrote nearly all entries. \"MPEPIL\" includes numerous new topics in order to capture the latest developments in international law. To do justice to the changing nature of the law, an increased emphasis has been be placed on the relevance of each keyword for contemporary international law. Particular attention has been paid to the contextualization of each topic within international law as well as the presentation of current trends while maintaining a focus on the mainstream/majority view. In order to reach the goal of avoiding a purely Eurocentric perspective the assistance of academics and practitioners from various legal backgrounds and perspectives was obtained already in the early stages of the undertaking. The intention is that \"MPEPIL\" is a work that reflects international law from a global perspective while taking into account also regional views.\n\n\"MPEPIL\" currently contains 1,618 articles. A total of 1,700 articles are planned for the site, with four content updates per year. Upon completion, the \"MPEPIL\" will cover the following overarching subject areas and article types:\n\n\nGiven that the information contained in many of the articles may become outdated, authors are asked to update their articles once a year in the first three years after electronic publication of the entire \"MPEPIL\".\n\nOver 800 authors from around the globe (74 countries) have agreed to submit articles to the \"MPEPIL\". Among them are not only distinguished professors, judges and legal practitioners, who are involved in international law, but also up-and-coming academics and researchers. The latter have been included in order to promote the progressive character of the \"MPEPIL\".\n\nAn Advisory Board, consisting of renowned experts in various fields of international law, applies its expertise to ensure the quality and excellence of each article. They carefully read and evaluate each article, keeping in mind the high standard of the publication. The members of the Advisory Board include: Rudolf Bernhardt, Armin von Bogdandy, Edith Brown Weiss, Jean-Pierre Cot, Yoram Dinstein, Thomas Franck, Jochen Abr. Frowein, Meinhard Hilf, Rahmatullah Khan, Martti Koskenniemi, Thomas Läufer, Thomas A. Mensah, Hanspeter Neuhold, Francisco Orrego Vicuña, W. Michael Reisman, Bruno Simma, Daniel Thürer, Christian Tomuschat, Tullio Treves, Rüdiger Wolfrum, and Michael Wood.\n\nAt the Max Planck Institute, a number of persons are or have been involved in the \"MPEPIL\" project since its initiation. The staff includes: Managing Editors, responsible for preparatory work, oversight over the project as a whole and to that end, involvement at all stages of the editorial and publication process, all the while ensuring a high level of quality for each article. Internal legal advisors, who are Senior Research Fellows at the Max Planck Institute, assist with quality-assurance in their supervision of the overarching themes as well as examination of articles. Editorial Staff consists of Support Staff, Editors, and Student Assistants. The Support Staff assist in the daily administration of the project. Editors review each article to ensure they are in keeping with the project’s style guidelines and make certain the validity and content of the authors’ statements.\n\nThe \"MPEPIL\" is available in electronic form. Oxford University Press (OUP) started the online publication in September 2008 with more than 450 articles. Regular updates will steadily expand the \"MPEPIL\" until all of its content can be accessed online. As of December 2012, the total number of articles stood at 1,618. In 2012, a print edition was published.\n\nThe \"MPEPIL\" features the Oxford Law Citator. This system links together OUP online materials that mention or discuss each other, and provides the user with further information on all references which are available online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50511597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50511597", "title": "Mildred Steinbach", "text": "Mildred Steinbach\n\nMildred Steinbach (22 December 1906 – 28 September 2002) was an art historian and the fourth Chief Librarian of the Frick Art Reference Library.\n\nSteinbach graduated from Vassar College, Poughkeepsie in 1929. She received a master's degree from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University in 1946, completing a thesis on Spanish Romanesque sculpture under the direction of Walter W.S. Cook. While in graduate school, she worked as a librarian at the Institute.\n\nIn 1944, Steinbach joined the Library's staff as a reference librarian. Three years later, she was promoted to Assistant Librarian, a position she held for twenty-three years. A specialist in medieval art, she was instrumental in augmenting the Photoarchive's collection of illuminated manuscripts. She served as the Chief Librarian of the Library from November 1970 to December 1977. During her tenure, more than 17,000 publications and 21,000 photographs were added to the Library's collections.\n\nThe Library maintained a strict dress code until 1989. Before that year, women \"wearing very short skirts, slacks or spike heels\" were not admitted, and men had to wear jackets or coats while conducting research in the Library's reading room. In 1975, the artist May Stevens challenged this regulation, issuing a formal complaint to New York City's Human Rights Commission. Steinbach defended the dress code, noting that \"we think it's a nice kind of decorum. Usually we have a great deal of cooperation.\" She added that the ban on spike heels was to keep visitors from falling on the slippery marble floors.\n\n"}
{"id": "43319641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43319641", "title": "Minor Encyclopedia", "text": "Minor Encyclopedia\n\nHarris' Minor Encyclopedia is small encyclopedia compiled by The Rev. Thaddeus Mason Harris in 1803 in Dorchester, Massachusetts, and published that year in Boston by West and Greenleaf. It was a revised American edition of \"Kendal's Pocket Encyclopedia\", edited extensively by Harris. It consists of four volumes of approximately 300 pages each in duodecimo (4 1/2 inches by 7 inches). There are no plates. \n\nHarris covers the arts and sciences, and technology, and topics of general knowledge, but there are no geographical, biographical, or historical articles. The editor states, \"Articles of local geography have been purposely omitted. The publications of Dr. Morse supersede the necessity of their introduction here...Biographical dictionaries, particularly those of Watkins and Jones, are in general circulation; and the public are expecting an elaborate and complete \"Universal Biography,\" compiled by a Society of Literati in Albany. Nor was it possible to make these volumes the vehicle of HISTORICAL INFORMATION. It is a subject too extensive for our plan.\"\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "44402393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44402393", "title": "MusicHound", "text": "MusicHound\n\nMusicHound (sometimes stylized as musicHound) was a compiler of genre-specific music guides published in the United States by Visible Ink Press between 1996 and 2002. After publishing eleven album guides, the MusicHound series was sold to London-based Music Sales Group, whose company Omnibus Press had originally distributed the books outside America. The series' founding editor was Gary Graff, formerly a music critic with the \"Detroit Free Press\".\n\nSubtitled \"The Essential Album Guide\", each publication typically contained entries providing an overview of an artist's career and dividing their work into categories such as \"what to buy\", \"what's next\", \"what to avoid\" and \"worth searching for\".<ref name=\"Jordan/MH Blues\"></ref> Among the MusicHound album guides were titles dedicated to rock, blues, classical, jazz, world music, swing, and soundtrack recordings. Further to the canine analogy in the series title, albums were graded according to a \"bone\" rating system: five bones constituting the highest score, down to a bold-rendered \"woof!\", signifying \"dog food\".\n\nGraff has said that he had envisioned the books as buyer's guides, specifically: \"something akin to a good record store clerk or that fellow shopper you meet while you're looking through the racks and with whom you strike up a spontaneous conversation\".<ref name=\"Ward/RockCritics\"></ref> Gale-owned Visible Ink also published a series of VideoHound film guides, beginning with 1996's \"Golden Movie Retriever\".\n\nEdited by Gary Graff and published in 1996, \"MusicHound Rock\" was the first guide in the series. A revised edition appeared in 1999, co-edited by Graff and Daniel Durchholz. Among the guide's reviewers were US music critics Joel Selvin (\"San Francisco Chronicle\"), Mark J. Petracca (\"Creem\"), Greg Kot (\"Chicago Tribune\", \"Rolling Stone\"), Brian Mansfield (\"USA Today\"), Thor Christensen (\"Dallas Morning News\", \"Spin\"), and Roger Catlin (\"Hartford Courant\"). Other contributors included: Gary Pig Gold, who went on to work on six subsequent MusicHound guides;<ref name=\"Gold bio/RBP\"></ref> Grant Alden and Peter Blackstock, co-founding editors of \"No Depression\" magazine; \"The Big Takeover\" publisher Jack Rabid, who had previously written for \"Trouser Press\"s record guide; \"Guitar World\" editor Alan Paul; and Anders Wright, news editor of the music website Wall of Sound. In 1996, the book contained entries for some 2500 artists; in this first edition, the reviewers deemed that 541 albums were worthy of a five-bone rating.\n\nThe 1999 edition came with a CD, supplied by Capitol Records, and included \"What album changed your life?\" sidebars written by celebrity musicians. Among the latter contributors were the following: Joan Baez, Peter Buck, Adam Clayton, Phil Collins, Jakob Dylan, Ben Harper, Mickey Hart, Lenny Kravitz, Simon LeBon, Stevie Nicks, Lou Reed, Robbie Robertson, Patti Smith, Sting and Pete Townshend. The book's foreword was written by Doug Fieger, singer and guitarist with the Knack. Writing in \"The Riverfront Times\" in July 1999, Jason Toon noted \"some unique elements\" that the guide offered – such as details on each artist's main influences and who they in turn influenced – while comparing \"MusicHound Rock\" with reference works by Penguin, Rough Guide and AllMusic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33954234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33954234", "title": "Ordbog over det danske Sprog", "text": "Ordbog over det danske Sprog\n\nOrdbog over det danske Sprog (Danish: \"dictionary of the Danish language\") or ODS is a comprehensive dictionary of the Danish language, describing its usage from c. 1700 to 1955 in great detail. So far 28 volumes have published from 1919 to 1956 with five supplementary volumes published 1992 to 2005. The project was begun by Danish linguist Verner Dahlerup. The full version of the \"ODS\" has been available in an online version since November 2005 as part of the project ordnet.dk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55460327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55460327", "title": "Parfilage", "text": "Parfilage\n\nParfilage was a fashionable pastime among women at the Versailles in the 1760s and 1770s. While most forms of ladies' handwork involved making something, parfilage was the opposite: women spent their time unraveling gold and silver braid, lace, or epaulets. As the fad grew--Grimm's \"Correspondence littéraire\" referred to a \"furor\" for it in winter 1773--ornaments were made and sold solely for the purpose of being unmade. Ladies carried small sacks with them for the gold and silver threads they had salvaged. Taken to a goldsmith, the thread could be melted down and made into coins. In Britain, parfilage was sometimes known as \"drizzling.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1281795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281795", "title": "Persecution of Christians in the modern era", "text": "Persecution of Christians in the modern era\n\nThe Pew Research Center has performed studies on international religious freedom, researching restrictions on religion originating from government prohibitions on free speech and religious expression as well as social hostilities undertaken by private individuals, organisations and social groups. In many countries around the world, Christians are subject to restrictions on speech, and suffer communal violence and hate crimes.\n\nScientific research about anti-Christian prejudice is not as well-developed as research about anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. This is because the scientific study of prejudice, first undertaken by the pioneering Harvard psychologist Gordon Allport began in Christian cultural contexts where atheists and religious minorities such as Jews were the obvious out-groups. More recently, sociologists have began to explore anti-Christian prejudice. For example, in a small-scale exploratory study of adolescent Christians in England, participants reported concern that being Christian was associated with lower peer-group status and intellectual inferiority (in comparision to atheists). Adolescent Christians also reported the use of slurs by school peers, such as 'bible-basher', and other hostile offensive jokes and comments.\n\nArson attacks on churches have been seen in Norway and the United States. Some arson attacks are considered hate crimes perpetrated for racial reasons by people inspired by racial hate groups. Headliners of the black metal genre have claimed responsibility for inspiring (and sometimes perpetrating) over fifty Norwegian church burnings from 1992 to 1996 alone. Among the most notable was Fantoft Stave Church, which the police believed was destroyed by the one-man band Burzum, Varg Vikernes, also known as 'Count Grishnackh'. The burnt-out shell of the building is featured on the cover of his 1993 EP \"Aske\" (Norwegian for 'ashes').\n\nThe vandalism or defacement of Christian property is one form of the expression of anti-Christian sentiment. The destruction of property held by churches and Christian individuals can be in violation of various criminal laws, and can violate hate speech laws if it is racially or religiously motivated.\n\nFiorello Provera of the European Parliament called the Middle East \"the most dangerous place for Christians to live\" and cited Ayaan Hirsi Ali, who blamed the international community for failing to deal with what she considers a war against Christians in the Muslim world.\n\nFormer Lebanese president Amine Gemayel stated in 2011 that Christians had become the target of genocide after dozens of Christians were killed in deadly attacks in Egypt and Iraq.\n\nAccording to Israeli ambassador to the United States Michael Oren, in the hundred years leading up to 2010 the Middle East's Christian population dwindled from 20% to less than 5%. Oren argues that with the exception of Israel, Christians in the Middle East have endured severe political and cultural hardships: in Egypt, Muslim extremists have subjected Coptic Christians to beatings and massacres, resulting in the exodus of 200,000 Copts from their homes; in Iraq, 1,000 Christians were killed in Baghdad between the years 2003 and 2012 and 70 churches in the country were burned; in Iran, converts to Christianity face the death penalty and in 2012 Pastor Yousef Nadarkhani was sentenced to death; in Saudi Arabia, private Christian prayer is against the law; in the Gaza Strip, half of the Palestinian Christian population has fled since Hamas seized power in 2007 and Gazan law forbids public displays of crucifixes; in the West Bank, the Christian population has been reduced from 15% to less than 2%.\n\nIn Egypt, the government does not recognize religious conversions from Islam to Christianity. Foreign missionaries are allowed in the country if they restrict their activities to social improvements and refrain from proselytizing. The Coptic Pope Shenouda III was internally exiled in 1981 by President Anwar Sadat, who then chose five Coptic bishops and asked them to choose a new pope. They refused, and in 1985 President Hosni Mubarak restored Pope Shenouda III, who had been accused of fomenting interconfessional strife. Particularly in Upper Egypt, the rise in extremist Islamist groups such as the Gama'at Islamiya during the 1980s was accompanied by increased attacks on Copts and on Coptic Orthodox churches; these have since declined with the decline of those organizations, but still continue. The police have been accused of siding with the attackers in some of these cases.\n\nIn April 2006, one person was killed and twelve injured in simultaneous knife attacks on three Coptic Orthodox churches in Alexandria.\n\nSince the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak in 2011, Egypt's Coptic Christians have been the target of increasing opposition and discrimination. In 2011, anti-Christian activity in Egypt included church burnings, protests against the appointment of a Coptic Christian governor in Qena, and deadly confrontations with the Egyptian army. On television Islamists referred to Christians as heretics and said they should be made to pay the jizya tax. A Coptic priest accused Islamists in the country of massacring uninfected pigs predominantly owned by Copts during a swine flu scare: \"They killed these innocent pigs just because they thought they violated their religion in some way.\" In October 2011 a draft resolution passed by the European Parliament accused Egypt of persecuting the country's Christian population. By mid-2012 10,000 Christians had fled the country.\n\nIn July 2012, Dahshur's entire Christian community, which some estimate to be as many as a hundred families, fled to nearby towns due to sectarian violence. The violence began in a dispute over a badly ironed shirt, which in turn escalated into a fight in which a Christian burned a Muslim to death, which in turn sparked a rampage by angry Muslims, while the police failed to act. At least 16 homes and properties of Christians were pillaged, some were torched, and a church was damaged during the violence.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, more than 150 kidnappings, for ransom, of Christians had been reported in the Minya governorate. \n\nThere is a long-running tension between Christians and Muslims in areas like Minya over whether churches may appear in the village. It is possible, legally speaking, for Christians to get a permit for built churches. However, civilian mobs are liable to attack the building if one's house is thought of as an unlicenced or not-yet-licensed church, or if one is thought to be building a new church. Some Muslim villagers see churches as unclean. \n\nIn 2016, Egyptian poet Fatima Naoot was convicted of \"contempt of religion\" and sentenced to three years in jail for a 2014 Facebook post criticising animal killing during Eid. Four Coptic Christian juveniles were convicted of \"contempt of religion\" the next month, with three of them sentenced to five years in prison.\n\nThe consolidation of power in the hands of Shiite Islamists in Iraq since the overthrow of the Saddam Hussein regime has been to the detriment of Iraq's Assyrian and Armenian Christian communities. Friction between rival sects in Iraq has frequently resulted in violence being directed against Christians in the country. Consequently, there has been a flight of Christians from some areas to Europe and to the United States. Since 2003, hundreds of thousands of Christians have fled Iraq, such that the Christian population, which may have been as high as 1.4 million prior to the Iraq War, has dropped to 500,000, with numbers continuing to decline. Between 2003 and 2012 more than 70 churches were bombed. In 2007 Al Qaeda militants killed a young priest in Mosul, and in 2010 gunmen massacred 53 Assyrian Christians in a Baghdad church.\n\nDuring the Syrian Civil War and the spillover into Iraq, persecution of Christians by ISIL and other militant groups has been ongoing. The Fall of Mosul and the Assyrian town of Qaraqosh in the 2014 ISIL advance in Iraq led to an estimated 100,000 Assyrian Christian civilians being displaced. After the fall of Mosul, ISIL demanded Assyrian Christians in the city to convert to Islam, pay tribute, or face execution. ISIL begun marking homes of Christian residents with the letter \"nūn\" for \"Nassarah\" (\"Christian\"). Thousands of Christians, Yazidis (the latter whom were given only the choice of conversion or death) and other, mostly Shi'a Muslims (whom ISIL consider to be apostates) have abandoned their homes and land. The destruction of cultural heritage by ISIL has included the Mosque of the Prophet Jonah, revered in all Abrahamic faiths.\n\nIn Jerusalem, there have been instances of Christian churches and monasteries being vandalized with spray-painted offensive remarks against Christianity, including death threats. These are believed to be price tag attacks by extremist settlers.\n\nIn Tel Aviv in 2008, three teenagers burned hundreds of Christian Bibles.\n\nA number of Ultra-Orthodox/Haredi youth have reportedly spat at Christian clergymen. Archbishop Aris Shirvanian, of Jerusalem's Armenian Patriarchate, says he personally has been spat at about 50 times in the past 12 years. The Anti-Defamation League has called on the chief Rabbis to speak out against the interfaith assaults. Father Goosan, Chief Dragoman of the Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem, stated that, \"I know there are fanatical Haredi groups that don't represent the general public but it's still enraging. It all begins with education. It's the responsibility of these men's yeshiva heads to teach them not to behave this way\". In January 2010, Christian leaders, Israeli Foreign ministry staff, representatives of the Jerusalem municipality and the Haredi community met to discuss inter-faith tolerance. The Haredi Community Tribunal of Justice published a statement condemning harassment of Christians, stating that it was a \"desecration of God's name.\" Several events were planned in 2010 by the Orthodox Yedidya congregation to show solidarity with Christians and improve relations between the Haredi and Christian communities of Jerusalem.\n\nIn July 2012, a former member of the Knesset, Michael Ben-Ari, who supports Kahanism, videotaped himself tearing up a copy of the New Testament and throwing it in the trash. Ben-Ari referred to it as a \"despicable book\" that should be \"in the dustbin of history\". In response, the American Jewish Committee urged the Knesset to censure Ben-Ari, while a spokesman for Benjamin Netanyahu also condemned Ben-Ari's actions.\n\nPalestinian Media Watch (PMW) reported that state-controlled Palestinian media frequently demonize religions like Judaism and Christianity. PMW translated into English a children's television program aired twice in 2012 it said featured a young girl saying Jews and Christians are \"cowardly and despised.\"\n\nIn 2002, a mob of Palestinian Muslims burned Christian property in Ramallah. A dossier submitted in 2005 to Church leaders in Jerusalem listed 93 incidents of abuse alleged to have been committed against Palestinian Christians by Muslim extremists and 140 cases of gangs allegedly stealing Christian land in the West Bank. In May 2012 a group of 100 Muslims attacked Taybeh, a Christian village in the West Bank.\n\nIn 2007, the Gaza Strip had a tiny Christian minority of 2,500–3,000. The Hamas overthrow of the Palestinian Authority in Gaza during that year was accompanied by violent attacks against Christians and Christian holy sites by Islamic militants. A Catholic convent and Rosary Sisters school were ransacked, with some Christians blaming Hamas for the attack. In September 2007 Christian anxiety grew after an 80-year-old Christian woman was attacked in her Gaza home by a masked man who robbed her and called her an infidel. That attack was followed less than a month later by a deadly assault on the owner of the only Christian bookstore in Gaza City. Muslim extremists were implicated as being behind the incident. The library of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) was bombed in 2008 by gunmen who, according to guards at the site, asked why the guards worked for \"infidels.\"\n\nIn 2011, the Christian population of Gaza Strip was less than 1,400. A member of the Catholic faith told \"The Guardian\" he was stopped by a Hamas official and told to remove a wooden crucifix he was wearing.\n\nThe human rights advocacy group International Christian Concern (ICC) told the \"Christian Post\" that 35 Christian Ethiopians – men and women – were violently arrested in Jeddah in December 2011 while holding a prayer meeting in their home. The prisoners complained of being persecuted on account of their faith and of being pressured to convert to Islam, and the women reported undergoing a humiliating strip search. According to the ICC, one prisoner said, \"The Muslim preacher [that was sent by officials to speak to the prisoners] vilified Christianity, denigrated the Bible and told us that Islam is the only true religion.\"\n\nOn 6 June 1992, the Fantoft Stave Church, a wooden structure originally built in 1150 in Fortun and moved to Bergen in 1883, was burnt down. At first the fire was attributed to lightning and electrical failure. In January 1993 Varg Vikernes, also known as \"Count Grishnackh\", was interviewed by a local journalist in his apartment decorated with 'Nazi paraphernalia, weapons and Satanic symbols'. Vikernes, at the time a proponent of White nationalism, social conservatism, survivalism and his Neo-völkisch ideology, declared that he wanted to blow up Blitz House and Nidaros Cathedral. He has publicly supported black metal fans burning down eight churches in Norway. He used a photo of the charred remnants of one church taken soon after the fire on his band Burzum's EP entitled \"Aske\" (Norwegian for ashes). Following his statement, the Norwegian authorities began to clamp down on black metal musicians.\n\nIn 1994, Vikernes was found guilty of murder, arson and possession of illegal weapons (including explosives) and given the maximum sentence under Norwegian law of 21 years in prison. He was released in 2009.\n\nThe following is a partial list of Norwegian Christian church arsons in 1992 by anti-Christian groups reported by English-language media sources:\n\nMany attacks, arsons and acts of vandalism against churches in Russia are reported each year. The acts of vandalism are often accompanied by Satanic symbolism and graffiti. In many instances, icons and crosses are burned and vandalized, and swastikas and Satanic symbols are painted on the walls of the churches (while in other attacks on churches in Russia they can be understood as more simple robberies). Some of the attacks on the churches, such as the cutting down of crosses, appear to be conducted by groups organized online and by local youth.\n\nOn 7 February 1993, the Lundby New Church in Gothenburg, Sweden was burnt down.\n\nIn the 2011 UK Census, 59.5% of the population marked their religion as \"Christian\", making Christianity still the majority religion. Rowan Williams said in 2013 that Christians in the UK who feel \"mildly uncomfortable\" at \"not being taken very seriously\" or \"being made fun of\" in the UK should not compare themselves to minority groups facing \"murderous hostility\" in countries that lack freedom of religion.\n\nConservative politician Mark Pritchard has said that a \"politically correct brigade\" were causing, \"Christianophobia\". Keith Porteous Wood, of the National Secular Society, replied \"Christians have absolutely nothing to complain about in this country\", he cited the facts that 26 bishops sit in the House of Lords, that England has an established church, and added: \"The head of state is a Christian, the prime minister is a Christian and almost all the cabinet are self-identified Christians. How on earth can anyone imagine that Christians are disadvantaged or pushed to the margins?\" \n\nIn 2007, a church building in Brighton was vandalised with anti-Christian graffiti by squatters.\n\nThe Islamist group Ansar Dine has led to Christians fleeing their cities to avoid being put under sharia law.\n\nThe Foreign Missionary Society Act of 1962 put a limit on the number of churches constructed. Students in military training were forbidden from praying unlike Muslims.\n\nIn Muslim-majority Zanzibar, part of Tanzania there have been numerous attacks on churches. A bishop condemned the lack of action by the government.\n\nAn angry mob of Indigenous peoples destroyed the only Protestant church in the remote village of Chucarasi in the Bolivian Andes after beating a congregational elder unconscious. Villagers apparently attacked their Christian neighbors because they blamed them for a hail storm that damaged local crops.\n\nThe killing of the priest Faustino Gazziero in 2004. CNTV program The Comedy Club parodies of Jesus, the burning of the image of Our Lady of Mount Carmel (national Patroness), and the subsequent mock of the faithful's grief in a nationwide newspaper.\n\nSince 2015, twelve churches have been burned in southern Chile, 10 Catholic ones and two Protestant ones. Attacks are supposedly from the Mapuche indigenous people, who are campaigning to reclaim ancestral lands, according to authorities.\n\n\"We are going to burn all churches.\" Thus declared the note left at the ruins of the Christian Union Evangelical church in Ercilla, Chile, after an arson attack on March 31, 2016.\n\nGovernment regulations aimed at curbing the growth of Christian house churches in Cuba\n\nJay Scott Ballinger admitted to committing 30 to 50 church arson attacks in 11 states between 1994 and 1998. Ballinger, who describes himself as a Satanist, spray-painted an inverted cross on the steps of one church they burned, saying it was part of a Satanic ritual.\n\nChristians in China have been detained, denied the protection of the laws, and ordered to refrain from religious activities outside of China's single official Protestant church.\n\nChristians in Pakistan are a minority, making up 1.6% of the population, and religious minorities are frequently discriminated against. The Pakistan blasphemy law mandates that blasphemy of the Qur'an is to be punished. Critics of the laws say that Christians like Asia Bibi are sentenced to death with only hearsay for evidence of alleged blasphemy. At least a dozen Christians have been given death sentences, and half a dozen of them have been murdered after being accused of violating blasphemy laws. In 2005, 80 Christians were behind bars due to these laws.\n\nChristians in Pakistan have been murdered in outbreaks of communal violence, such as the 2009 Gojra riots, and they have been targeted by militant groups, with the Peshawar church attack killing 75 Christians in Peshawar in 2013, and the Lahore church bombings killing 15 Christians in 2015. The campaign of violence by the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan has been described as a genocide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405412", "title": "Power politics", "text": "Power politics\n\nPower politics (or, in German, Machtpolitik) is a theory in international relations, which contains the idea that distributions of power and interests, or changes to those distributions, are fundamental causes of war and of system stability.\nThe concept of power politics provides a way of understanding systems of international relations: in this view, nations compete for the world's limited resources and it is to an individual nation's advantage to be manifestly able to harm others. Power politics prioritizes national self-interest over the interests of other nations or the international community, and thus may include threatening one another with military, economic or political aggression to protect one nation's own interest. \n\nTechniques of power politics include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4004811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4004811", "title": "Public Register of All Arms and Bearings in Scotland", "text": "Public Register of All Arms and Bearings in Scotland\n\nThe Public Register of All Arms and Bearings in Scotland, established in 1672, is an official register of Scottish coats of arms maintained by the Lyon Clerk and Keeper of the Records. As a public register, it can be seen by anyone on application, and on payment of a statutory fee.\n\nThe Register was established by Act of the Scottish Parliament in 1672. It is held at the Court of the Lord Lyon, and contains every grant of arms by Lord Lyon King of Arms since that date, as well as older coats of arms that the owners have chosen to register. Bearings that are not matriculated in the Register may not be used in Scotland, unless it can be proved that they were in use before 1672.\n\nThe first volume of the Register (now divided into two parts for ease of handling and conservation reasons) continued in use from 1672 until 1804, and contains 2,702 entries. It begins with the arms of the Lyon Office, followed by the personal achievement of Sir Charles Erskine, Bt, who was Lord Lyon at the time. Most of the arms in this volume are given in blazon only: relatively few are painted.\n\nFrom the beginning of the second volume in 1804 the arms are consistently painted. The Register now consists of over eighty volumes of parchment, and is illustrated by a succession of the most prominent heraldic artists working in Scotland.\n\nIn 1893, Sir James Balfour Paul, Lord Lyon King of Arms, published the contents of the first twelve volumes of the Register, to that date, in the form of an ordinary (i.e. with the entries in blazon, rearranged by design; and with a name index): the work contained roughly 5,200 entries. Ten years later, by which time the Register had reached its sixteenth volume, he published an updated second edition including all arms registered to the end of 1901: this edition contained 5,532 entries. By 1973 the Register had reached its 57th volume, and in 1977 Lyon Office published a second volume of the \"Ordinary\": this covered all arms registered from 1902 to the end of 1973, and contained a further 6,040 entries. This volume was edited by David Reid of Robertland, Carrick Pursuivant (who died in December 1973, while the work was in progress), and Vivien Wilson.\n\nThe three published volumes are therefore:\n\nThe Register down to 1913 has been digitised, and is available on the ScotlandsPeople Website (maintained by the National Archives of Scotland). Searching the index is free, but there is a fee to view the page images.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347068", "title": "Rumpelstiltskin", "text": "Rumpelstiltskin\n\nRumpelstiltskin is a fairytale popularly associated with Germany (where he is known as Rumpelstilzchen). The tale was one collected by the Brothers Grimm in the 1812 edition of \"Children's and Household Tales\". According to researchers at Durham University and the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, the story originated around 4,000 years ago.\n\nIn order to appear superior, a miller lies to the king, telling him that his daughter can spin straw into gold (some versions make the miller's daughter blonde and describe the \"straw-into-gold\" claim as a careless boast the miller makes about the way his daughter's straw-like blond hair takes on a gold-like lustre when sunshine strikes it). The king calls for the girl, shuts her in a tower room filled with straw and a spinning wheel, and demands she spin the straw into gold by morning or he will cut off her head (other versions have the king threatening to lock her up in a dungeon forever). When she has given up all hope, an imp-like creature appears in the room and spins the straw into gold in return for her necklace (since he only comes to people seeking a deal/trade). When next morning the king takes the girl to a larger room filled with straw to repeat the feat, the imp once again spins, in return for the girl's ring. On the third day, when the girl has been taken to an even larger room filled with straw and told by the king that he will marry her if she can fill this room with gold or execute her if she cannot, the girl has nothing left with which to pay the strange creature. He extracts from her a promise that she will give him her firstborn child and so he spins the straw into gold a final time (In some versions, the imp appears and begins to turn the straw into gold, paying no heed to the girl's protests that she has nothing to pay him with; when he finishes the task, he states that the price is her first child, and the horrified girl objects because she never agreed to this arrangement).\n\nThe king keeps his promise to marry the miller's daughter. But when their first child is born, the imp returns to claim his payment: \"Now give me what you promised.\" She offers him all the wealth she has to keep the child, but the imp has no interest in her riches. \n\nHe finally consents to give up his claim to the child if she can guess his name within three days (some versions have the imp limiting the number of daily guesses to three and hence the total number of guesses allowed to a maximum of nine). \n\nHer many guesses fail, but before the final night, she wanders into the woods (in some versions, she sends a servant into the woods instead of going herself in order to keep the king's suspicions at bay), searching for him and comes across his remote mountain cottage and watches, unseen, as he hops about his fire and sings. In his song's lyrics, \"tonight tonight, my plans I make, tomorrow tomorrow, the baby I take. The queen will never win the game, for Rumpelstiltskin is my name'\", he reveals his name.\n\nWhen the imp comes to the queen on the third day, after first feigning ignorance, she reveals his name, Rumpelstiltskin, and he loses his temper and their bargain. Versions vary about whether he accuses the devil or witches of having revealed his name to the queen. In the 1812 edition of the Brothers Grimm tales, Rumpelstiltskin then \"ran away angrily, and never came back\". The ending was revised in an 1857 edition to a more gruesome ending wherein Rumpelstiltskin \"in his rage drove his right foot so far into the ground that it sank in up to his waist; then in a passion he seized the left foot with both hands and tore himself in two\". Other versions have Rumpelstiltskin driving his right foot so far into the ground that he creates a chasm and falls into it, never to be seen again. In the oral version originally collected by the Brothers Grimm, Rumpelstiltskin flies out of the window on a cooking ladle.\n\nThe name \"Rumpelstilzchen\" in German means literally \"little rattle stilt\", a \"stilt\" being a post or pole that provides support for a structure. A \"rumpelstilt\" or \"rumpelstilz\" was consequently the name of a type of goblin, also called a \"pophart\" or \"poppart\", that makes noises by rattling posts and rapping on planks. The meaning is similar to \"rumpelgeist\" (\"rattle ghost\") or \"poltergeist\", a mischievous spirit that clatters and moves household objects. (Other related concepts are \"mummarts\" or \"boggarts\" and \"hobs\", which are mischievous household spirits that disguise themselves.) The ending \"-chen\" is a German diminutive cognate to English \"-kin\".\n\nThe earliest known mention of Rumpelstiltskin occurs in Johann Fischart's \"Geschichtklitterung, or Gargantua\" of 1577 (a loose adaptation of Rabelais' \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\") which refers to an \"amusement\" for children, i.e. a children's game named \"Rumpele stilt oder der Poppart\".\n\nTranslations of the original Grimm fairy tale (KHM 55) into various languages have generally substituted different names for the dwarf whose name is \"Rumpelstilzchen\". For some languages, a name was chosen that comes close in sound to the German name: \"Rumpelstiltskin\" or \"Rumplestiltskin\" in English, \"Repelsteeltje\" in Dutch, \"Rumpelstichen\" in Portuguese, \"Rumpelstinski\" or \"Rumpelestíjeles\" in Spanish, \"Rumplcimprcampr\" or \"Rampelník\" in Czech. In Japanese it is called ルンペルシュティルツキン (\"Runperushutirutsukin\"). Russian might have the most accomplished imitation of the German name with Румпельшти́льцхен (\"Rumpelʹštílʹcxen\").\n\nIn other languages the name was translated in a poetic and approximate way. Thus \"Rumpelstilzchen\" is known as \"Päronskaft\" (literally \"Pear-stalk\") in Swedish, where the sense of \"stilt\" or \"stalk\" of the second part is retained. Likewise, in Danish and Norwegian, he is known as \"Rumleskaft\" (literally \"Rumble-shank\"). Italian has \"Tremotino\" (which loosely means \"Little Earthquake\"). French has – besides other names – \"Tracassin\" (like \"tracasser\" \"to pester\"). In other translations an entirely different and generally meaningless name was selected, such as \"Barbichu\", \"Broumpristoche\", \"Grigrigredinmenufretin\", \"Outroupistache\" or \"Perlimpinpin\" in various translations to French. Turkish translations use \"Hariparibuşki Baripinpon\" which does not mean anything and was chosen just because the name was complicated.\n\nSlovak translations use \"Martinko Klingáč\". Polish translations use \"Titelitury\" (or \"Rumpelsztyk\") and Finnish ones \"Tittelintuure\", \"Rompanruoja\" or \"Hopskukkeli\". Serbian, Bosnian and Croatian \"Cvilidreta\" (\"Whine-screamer\"). For Hebrew the poet Avraham Shlonsky composed the name (\"Ootz-li Gootz-li\", a compact and rhymy touch to the original sentence and meaning of the story, \"My adviser my midget\"), when using the fairy tale as the basis of a children's musical, now a classic among Hebrew children's plays. Greek translations have used Ρουμπελστίλτσκιν (from the English) or Κουτσοκαλιγέρης (\"Koutsokaliyéris\") which could figure as a Greek surname, formed with the particle κούτσο- (\"koútso-\" \"limping\"), and is perhaps derived from the Hebrew name. Urdu versions of the tale used the name \"Tees Mar Khan\" for the imp.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1873555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873555", "title": "Satellite media tour", "text": "Satellite media tour\n\nA satellite media tour (SMT) is a technique used by corporations (primarily) to provide an \"expert\" of their choosing to local television news broadcasts for often-live interaction, with the goal of getting out a specific message. Satellite media tours are related to, and often used in conjunction with, Video News Releases. For example, a special version of a satellite media tour interview is often edited and distributed as a video news release, with the broadcaster adding in its own additional voice-over. Radio interviews are often booked during the satellite window to create a combo SMT/RMT. Co-op Satellite media tours, a common form, use one expert to make recommendations funded by more than one client, all under one category (e.g. \"Four Great Ideas for Cleaning Your Bathroom\").\n\nExamples of satellite media tours: http://pitchingmonkeysmedia.com/satellite-media-tours/\n"}
{"id": "54718162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54718162", "title": "Serbian Citation Index", "text": "Serbian Citation Index\n\nSerbian Citation Index (; SCIndeks) is a combination of an online multidisciplinary bibliographic database, a national citation index, an Open Access full-text journal repository and an electronic publishing platform. It is produced and maintained by the Centre for Evaluation in Education and Science (CEON/CEES), based in Belgrade, Serbia. In July 2017, it indexed 230 Serbian scholarly journals in all areas of science and contained more than 80,000 bibliographic records and more than one million bibliographic references. \n\nSCIndeks operates as a DOI registration agency and an OAI-PMH data provider. It is also an OpenAIRE data provider. Serbian Citation Inde is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE).\nWhile the content of SCIndeks is freely available to users, the publishers of the indexed journals subscribe to one of four service packages that provide various levels of content indexing and quality control: from basic bibliographic data (no full text) to full-text availability, DOI assignment, bibliometric evaluation, journal management support and plagiarism detection. \n\nThe core of SCIndeks is a searchable bibliographic database that also contains citation information. It relies on a full text repository (SCIndeks Repository). The repository and journal profiles are maintained through the Editor Service, a back-end platform for journal editors. Publishers may also subscribe to SCIndeks Assistant, a journal management system based on Open Journal Systems and enriched with a number of in-house developed services, tools and protocols that enable the normalization of names, affiliations and funding information; automated parsing and formatting of references; matching of references and citations; keywords assignment, etc. SCIndeks Assistant also enables plagiarism detection through CrossRef Similarity Check, using iThenticate. \n\nBibliometric data contained in SCindeks are used to generate cumulative annual reports on the performance of the indexed journals – Journal Bibliometric Report, which tracks more than 20 quantitative and qualitative indicators. \n\nSCindeks offers a number of functionalities to registered users, e.g. customized search and saved search alerts.\n\nThe development of SCIndeks was preceded by two projects: SocioFakt Online (a citation database for social sciences, established in 2001) and SocioFakt Open Access (a fully searchable and harvestable full-text journal repository, established in 2004).; Both databases were developed by the CEON/CEES. SCIndeks draws on both projects but it covers all areas of science. \n\nFrom the outset, SCIndeks was used as the source of information for the evaluation of locally published journals, i.e. the Journal Bibliometric Report, a local counterpart of the Journal Citation Reports. \n\nSCIndeks was originally funded by the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Serbia, which means that indexing and bibliometric analyses were free for journals. Under this model, nearly 500 journals were covered and nearly 40% of papers were available as full text. In 2015, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development ceased supporting SCIndeks. Consequently, SCIndeks changed the business model: it was no longer available free of charge to journal publishers interested in indexing and evaluation of their journals, while remaining freely available to readers. \n\nIn 2016-2017, SCIndeks was upgraded to enable ORCID integration and normalization of funder information. It was also made compatible with OpenAIRE. \n\nPolicy and Licensing Support Service was introduced in the Editor Service. It enables journals to define their editorial policies relying on a standardized template, which fully conforms to the requirements set by the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42329149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42329149", "title": "Spirit of Metal", "text": "Spirit of Metal\n\nThe Spirit of Metal webzine is an online collection of bands from Heavy Metal and its subgenres. \"SoM\" is similar to the \"Encyclopaedia Metallum\". The difference between the two online collection portals is that \"Spirit of Metal\" also included in its encyclopedia bands that have their roots in Hardcore Punk.\nThe site originated in France.\n\nSince the founding of the website in 2003, Spirit of Metal is available in 9 languages (French, German, English, Russian, Spanish, Italian, Chinese, Polish and Portuguese).\n\nIn addition to the tape archive, Spirit of Metal acts as a messaging service. So band messages are added, interviews conducted, concert and album reviews published, which are corrected by the professional staff and published thereafter. Interviews, reviews and news are published in French or English. Spirit of Metal also sells its own T-shirts. Many well-known musicians from world-renowned groups, including Sharon Janny den Adel (Within Temptation), Edu Falaschi (Angra), Janne Wirman (Children of Bodom), Dani Filth (Cradle of Filth), Simone Simons (Epica) and Mikael Stanne (Dark Tranquillity) Members have the opportunity to discuss bands and other topics in the forum, and can send private messages outside the forum.\n\nAnother difference with the Metal Archives is that, for some time now, bands with a questionable political ideology cannot be added to \"Spirit of Metal\". Politically-oriented bands (especially extreme right-wing groups) that were registered prior to this control measure are marked with a crossed swastika.\n\nIn addition, Spirit of Metal is comparable to portals such as Vampster and Powermetal.de. Since 2003 there is also a portal that specializes in rock bands. This is called Spirit of Rock webzine. According to the official Facebook presence of the music archive, \"Spirit of Metal\" represents the world's largest online encyclopedia of Metal and rock.\n\n"}
{"id": "40640643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40640643", "title": "St Teilo's Church, Llandeilo Tal-y-bont", "text": "St Teilo's Church, Llandeilo Tal-y-bont\n\nSt Teilo's Church is a historic building originally located at Llandeilo Tal-y-Bont near Pontarddulais and now reconstructed at St Fagans National History Museum in Cardiff, Wales.\n\nThe church is thought to have been built in the 12th or 13th century. It was used regularly until 1850, subsequently used only for a few services during the summer months. As recently as the early 20th century, coracles were used by worshippers to reach the church in its location beside the River Loughor. It went out of use in 1970 and began to be demolished in 1984 in readiness for the move to St Fagans. \n\nPrior to the removal of the church, wall paintings were discovered showing through in places beneath the plaster. When the church began to be dismantled, the paintings were first removed and preserved; the oldest of them was a mural of St Catherine, believed to date from the 15th century.\n\nIt was rebuilt and redecorated as it would have appeared in about 1530. The new roof timbers were sourced from Northeast Wales and a new rood screen and a loft were carved from Radnorshire oak by the project's head carpenter, Ray Smith MBE. \n\nThe missing sections of the wall paintings were reconstructed from what was left. Around one-third of the paintings now displayed are reconstructions of those discovered under the wall-plaster, the originals having been preserved and held by the National Museum of Wales. The remainder were devised by experts, based on paintings known from other churches. One of the original paintings represented the Holy Trinity, with God the Father seated in majesty behind a crucifix. The head of the king is believed to be modelled on King Henry VIII of England, a theory supported by a representation on the opposite wall of Henry's seal.\n\nThe church was the 41st building to be opened to the public at the museum. It was officially reopened by the then Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "8831614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8831614", "title": "Stick and Rudder", "text": "Stick and Rudder\n\nStick and Rudder: An Explanation of the Art of Flying () is a book written in 1944 by Wolfgang Langewiesche, describing how airplanes fly and how they should be flown by pilots. It has become a standard reference text for aviators. Written well before the proliferation of cockpit electronics, navigational aids, and air traffic control radio, the book focuses primarily on fundamental skills specific to flying the aircraft in its stripped down basic form.\n"}
{"id": "23958987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23958987", "title": "The Encyclopœdia of Sexual Knowledge", "text": "The Encyclopœdia of Sexual Knowledge\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Sexual Knowledge, under the editorship of Dr. Norman Haire (1892–1952), is the first of a trilogy of sexual encyclopaedias by Arthur Koestler writing under the pen name of ‘Dr. A. Costler’. It is the English version, published by Koestler's cousin Francis Aldor in 1934, of the book \"L'encyclopédie de la vie sexuelle\" that Koestler in 1933 wrote, together with \"A. Willy\" (the pseudonym of his other cousin Willy Aldor) and the German Dr. Levy-Lenz. The second book is \"Sexual Anomalies and Perversions, Physical and Psychological Development, Diagnoses and Treatment\". The title of the third book is, in the original French edition of 1939, \"L’Encyclopédie de la famille\". This third book was subsequently translated into English and published under various titles and with changes to the structure and text of the original edition. The name of ‘Dr. Costler’ (or 'A. Coester') as the author or co-author of the book is omitted from later editions.\nKoestler wrote that working from standard text books and reference works \"I condensed and distilled the \"Encyclopædia\" at a rate of about four thousand words a day.\"\n\nThe background to Koestler’s collaboration in the writing of these books is set out in detail in his autobiography \"The Invisible Writing\", Chapter XIX. ‘Introducing Dr. Coster’. As noted there, The Encyclopœdia was highly successful and became a best-seller in several languages, but Koestler himself had little benefit of it, being shamelessly exploited by the publisher – a crooked cousin of his. Koestler received a flat payment of sixty pounds and no royalties from the sales, which amounted to tens of thousands. \n\nThe book is divided into ten ‘Books’ (main chapters) and two Appendices. Each ‘Book’ consists of several Sections and Chapters. The book contains numerous monochrome illustrations and 32 colour plates. 836 numbered pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "30013515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30013515", "title": "Trésor de la langue française", "text": "Trésor de la langue française\n\nThe Trésor de la langue française (TLF, subtitled \"Dictionnaire de la langue du XIXe et du XXe siècle (1789–1960)\") is a 16-volume dictionary of 19th- and 20th-century French published by the \"Centre de Recherche pour un Trésor de la Langue Française\" from 1971 to 1994. Its electronic edition, the Trésor de la langue française informatisé (TLFi), is available on CD-ROM and on the Web.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67023", "title": "Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement", "text": "Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement\n\nThe Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (, abbreviated MRTA) was a Peruvian Marxist guerrilla group which started in the early 1980s. The group was led by Víctor Polay Campos until he was sentenced to 32 years' imprisonment in 1992 and by Néstor Cerpa Cartolini (\"Comrade Evaristo\") until his death in 1997.\n\nThe MRTA took its name in homage to Túpac Amaru II, an 18th-century rebel leader who was himself named after his claimed ancestor Túpac Amaru, the last indigenous leader of the Inca people. MRTA was designated a terrorist organization by the Peruvian government, the US Department of State and the European Parliament but was later removed from the United States State Department list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations on October 8, 2001.\n\nAt the height of its strength, the movement had several hundred active members. Its stated goals were to establish a socialist state and rid the country of all \"imperialist\" elements.\n\nThe MRTA originated in 1980 from the merging of the Marxist-Leninist Revolutionary Socialist Party and the militant faction of the Revolutionary Left Movement, \"MIR El Militante\" (MIR-EM). The former gathered several ex-members of the Peruvian armed forces that participated in the leftist government of Juan Velasco Alvarado (1968–1975), and the latter represented a subdivision of the Revolutionary Left Movement, a Castroist guerrilla faction which was defeated in 1965.\nThe MRTA attempted to ally with other leftist organizations following the first democratic elections in Peru after a military government period (1968–1980).\n\nThe first action by the MRTA occurred on 31 May 1982, when five of its members, including Victor Polay Campos and Jorge Talledo Feria (members of the Central Committee) robbed a bank in La Victoria, Lima. During the hold up, Talledo was killed by friendly fire.\nPeru's counterterrorist program diminished the group's ability to carry out terrorist attacks, and the MRTA suffered from infighting as well as violent clashes with Maoist rival Shining Path, the imprisonment or deaths of senior leaders, and loss of leftist support. ln 2001, several MRTA members remained imprisoned in Bolivia.\n\nOn 6 July 1992, MRTA fighters staged a raid on the town of Jaen, Peru, a jungle town located in the northern department of Cajamarca. One policeman, Eladio Garcia Tello, responded to the calls for help. After an intense shootout, the guerrillas were driven out of the town. Eladio Garcia perished in the firefight.\n\nIts last major action resulted in the 1997 Japanese embassy hostage crisis. In December 1996, 14 MRTA members occupied the Japanese Ambassador's residence in Lima, holding 72 hostages for more than four months. Under orders from then-President Alberto Fujimori, armed forces stormed the residence in April 1997, rescuing all but one of the remaining hostages and killing all 14 MRTA militants. Fujimori was publicly acclaimed for the decisive action, but the affair was later tainted by subsequent revelations that at least three, and perhaps as many as eight, of the MRTistas were summarily executed after they surrendered.\n\nIn a case that attracted international attention, Lori Berenson, a former MIT student and U.S. socialist activist living in Lima, was arrested on 30 November 1995, by the police and accused of collaborating with the MRTA. She was subsequently sentenced by a military court to life imprisonment (later reduced to 20 years by a civilian court).\n\nIn September 2003, four Chilean defendants including Jaime Castillo Petruzzi were retried and convicted of membership in the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement and participation in an attack on the Peru–North American Cultural Institute and a kidnapping-murder in 1993.\n\nOn 22 March 2006, Víctor Polay, the guerrilla leader of the MRTA, was found guilty by a Peruvian court on nearly 30 crimes committed during the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nPeru's Truth and Reconciliation Commission determined that the group was responsible for 1.5% of the deaths investigated. In its final findings published in 2003, the Commission observed:\n\n"}
{"id": "5340509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5340509", "title": "Uzbekisation", "text": "Uzbekisation\n\nUzbekisation or Uzbekization is the process of something or someone culturally non-Uzbek becoming, or being forced to become, Uzbek, though it is a racial designation. The term is often used to describe the process by which the region now occupied by Tajikistan was incorporated as an autonomous republic (Tajik ASSR) within the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic between 1924 and 1929.\n\nThe term \"Uzbekization\" is also used to refer to the cultural assimilation of the Tajiks in Uzbekistan. Because of assimilation pressures that began in 1924 with the creation of Uzbek SSR, ethnic Tajiks often chose to identify themselves as Uzbeks in population census forms and preferred to be registered as Uzbek in their passports to avoid leaving the republic for the less developed agricultural and mountainous Tajikistan. While official Uzbek statistics place the total Tajik population in Uzbekistan at about 5%, subjective expert estimates suggest that the Tajiks may account for as much as 25%-30% of the total population of the country.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the term \"Uzbekization\" has been applied to the processes in Uzbekistan that reverse the results of Sovietization and Russification. Among these are restoring the importance of Uzbek language, which replaced the Russian language in obligatory education, promotion of Uzbek tradition and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "39173364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39173364", "title": "W. H. Stevenson", "text": "W. H. Stevenson\n\nWilliam Henry Stevenson (7 September 1858 – 22 October 1924), who wrote as W. H. Stevenson, was an English historian and philologist who specialized in Anglo-Saxon England.\n\nStevenson was born in Nottingham and went to school in Hull. As a young man he was a researcher for the Nottingham Borough Council and became a contributor to the \"English Historical Review\". Having worked for many years on early charters, in May 1898 Stephenson delivered the Sandars Lectures at Cambridge on the subject of 'The Anglo-Saxon Chancery'. \n\nA pioneer of Anglo-Saxon studies, Stevenson's \"magnum opus\" was his edition of Asser's \"Life of King Alfred\", published in 1904, and in the sixteen years between 1892 and 1908 he edited for the Public Record Office eleven volumes of calendars of Close Rolls. \n\nA Fellow and librarian of St John's College, Oxford from 1904 until his death, he was the mentor of Frank Stenton. \n\nOne of Stevenson's greatest strengths was a faultless knowledge of the important languages of his period.\n\nIn 1905, while working on records kept at Belvoir Castle, Stevenson discovered evidence that in March 1613 (a few months before the Globe theatre burnt down during a performance of Henry VIII), William Shakespeare and Richard Burbage, who had some skill as a portrait painter, were each paid forty-four shillings in gold for creating and painting the Earl of Rutland’s emblem. This decorative emblem was to be used at a festive tournament later that month at Whitehall in London to mark the accession of King James I ten years earlier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28886300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28886300", "title": "Western Australia: An Atlas of Human Endeavour", "text": "Western Australia: An Atlas of Human Endeavour\n\nWestern Australia: An Atlas of Human Endeavour was an atlas published in 1979 as part of the WAY 79 sesquicentennial celebration of the European colonisation of Western Australia. It was published by the Western Australian Department of Education and the Department of Lands and Surveys, and had a foreword by Premier Charles Court, who was personally involved in a number of the projects that were conducted by the organisation.\n\nIt was an atlas that included extensive usage of historical geography, and both editions included gazetteers and bibliographies - at some divergence from the Sesquicentenary Celebrations Series editions that lacked indexes and adequate reference materials.\n\nIt was originally published for the 1979 celebrations; a second edition that dropped the dates in the title, was published in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "42319361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42319361", "title": "Ziyarat al-Nabi Shu'ayb", "text": "Ziyarat al-Nabi Shu'ayb\n\nZiyarat al-Nabi Shu'ayb is a Druze festival called Ziyara celebrated between 25 and 28 April which is officially recognized in Israel as a public holiday.\n\nThe Druze generally only celebrate one holiday, Eid al-Adha. The Druze community in Israel under the leadership of Sheikh Amin Tarif, however, has endowed this period with a special status, deeming the Ziyara a festive day by law. Workers are allowed to take a break from work without infringing their workers' rights. Schools operating under the Druze education system are closed for the period, while Druze soldiers in the Israel Defense Forces are also given the period as a vacation.The whole community, not just religious Druze in Israel, celebrates this Ziyara.\n\nThe celebration starts on 25 April and concludes on 28 April, with many religious leaders from all the religions in Israel, and also political leaders (occasionally also the PM), coming to congratulate the Israeli Druze community during their festivities at the Maqam al-Nabi Shu'ayb. Religious leaders or sheikhs from Mount Carmel, the Galilee and the Golan Heights take the opportunity to discuss religious issues.\n\n"}
