{"id": "17339731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339731", "title": "Albert Wijuk Kojałowicz", "text": "Albert Wijuk Kojałowicz\n\nAlbert Wijuk Kojałowicz (; ; ; 1609–1677) was a Lithuanian historian, theologian and translator. He was devoted Jesuit and religious polemicist, interested in genealogy and heraldry. He served as a censor, bishops advisor and Deputy Chancellor of Lithuania.\n\nAlbert and his brother Casimir were born in the House of Perkūnas in Kaunas (or Romainiai according to other sources) to a poor Lithuanian noble family. They bore Kościesza coat of arms, but without a cross-bar. He studied rhetoric, philosophy and theology in which mastered title of doctor in 1645. Later he was appointed as a professor of Alma Academia et Universitas Vilnensis Societatis Iesu, teacher of logic, physics, metaphysics and ethic. Together with his brothers he joined Jesuit order and founded its colleges in Kaunas, Vilnius and Polatsk. In 1653 he became rector of Vilnius Academy. He died on 6 October 1677 in Vilnius.\n\nWijuk Kojałowicz was famous for his rhetoric talent and research in the Lithuanian history. He is considered one of the best and most productive historical writers of the 17th century. Among his forty publications most important is \"Historiae Lituanae\", which was the first full research on the history of Lithuania.\n\nWijuk Kojałowicz was devoted to the Lithuanian history and his \"\"Historiae Lituanae\" is considered, next to Maciej Stryjkowski's \"Kronika Polska, Litewska, Żmódzka\" and Alexander Guagnini's \"Sarmatiae Europaeae Descriptio\", as one of the most important studies of history of Lithuania from the mid-seventeenth century. It was used as main source for Lithuanian history until the 19th century.\n\nThe study continued the tradition of Lithuanian Chronicles by glorifying the heroic past of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, by voicing the patriotic sentiments and by encouraging Lithuanian nobles to protect the territorial integrity of their fatherland.\n\nWijuk-Kojałowicz also focused on the imperfection of human memory. Memory is, according to him, a defective instrument, with time it tends to remember incorrectly, incompletely, or not at all. The technology of human memory, in Wijuk-Kojałowicz's view, is always uncertain and doubtful, even the written testimony is bound to mutate and to be distorted. Kojałowicz's implied that the goal of history is nothing else but to preserve memory of all things past. The communal or collective memory is firmest when it is written down:\n\nIn the foreword of the first volume of this work entitled \"An opportunity to write the history of Lithuania\", he admitted that he had not just translated Stryjkowski's history but had revised it \"according to the requirements and laws of a written treatise...\" . According to Wijuk-Kojałowicz, Stryjkowski's history, that was written in Polish was not accessible to foreign readers, and it also broke rhetorics and history principles in many places. Because of his critical stance towards Stryjkowski's \"Kronika...\"\" Wijuk-Kojałowicz revised it so, that it would teach the young not only the history of their country, but also the Latin language.\nHis goal, as he admitted himself, was to rewrite Stryjkowski's history in Latin according to the rhetoric principles and historical truth. Kojałowicz's history moved away from metaphorical representation favored by Stryjkowski toward a more balanced description. He replaced Stryjkowski's metaphorical style of historical writing preoccupied with analogy and thereby closer to poetry with a rhetoric focused on the mechanics of telling a linear story.\n\nDespite of his critical attitude, Wijuk-Kojałowicz's History of Lithuania reiterated Stryjkowski's chronological and factual errors. As in \"Kronika...\", the death dates of the Lithuanian Grand Dukes Algirdas and Gediminas were incorrect, and the names of Algirdas's sons and uncles were mixed up. The change of places and names, confused in the course of many centuries, sometimes obscured the truth so that it become impossible to distinguish between truth and the fiction for the states were formed during barbarian times when there were no writers. Because of such reasons there remained very few stories about the origins and customs of the Lithuanians, and thus many widespread stories are questionable or false. Kojałowicz was skeptical about the possibility of history written sine \"ira et studio\", without anger and without preconception, without affection and hatred.\n\nWijuk-Kojałowicz described the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth as a state consisting of two states, the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, and two nations, the Lithuanian and Polish, which were supposed to have equal rights. He extensively described the Union of Lublin which was, in his opinion, a significant event in the history of the Grand Duchy. The Lithuanian nobles were convinced that they needed this union but its conditions had to guarantee and preserve the dignity of the Lithuanian state and Lithuanian nation:\n\nWijuk-Kojałowicz regarded the religion as the most important attribute of national belonging. According to him, neither ethnicity nor language distinguished Lithuanians from Ruthenians but their different creed. Roman Christianity became a definitive composite of a noble's identity.\nWijuk-Kojałowicz wrote that:\n\nIn Kojałowicz's works, the nation was, first of all, imagined as a community with common interests and a shared past. His ideas about the historical nation were not only a reflection of cultural forces in the state, they were instrumental in forging popular imagination of the historical community of the Grand Duchy. The word \"nation\" (\"natio\"), which he often used, was expressed as a problematic ambivalence in imagining and fictionalizing the community of Lithuania.\n\n"}
{"id": "162241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162241", "title": "Altmark", "text": "Altmark\n\nThe (English: Old March) is a historic region in Germany, comprising the northern third of Saxony-Anhalt. As the initial territory of the March of Brandenburg, it is sometimes referred to as the \"Cradle of Prussia\", as by Otto von Bismarck, a native from Schönhausen near Stendal.\n\nThe Altmark is located west of the Elbe river between the cities of Hamburg and Magdeburg, mostly included in the districts of Altmarkkreis Salzwedel and Stendal. In the west, the Drawehn hill range and the Drömling depression separate it from the Lüneburg Heath in Lower Saxony; the Altmark also borders the Wendland region in the north and the Magdeburg Börde in the south. Adjacent east of the Elbe is the historical Prignitz region.\n\nThe population is small. The cultural landscape within the North European Plain is rural and widely covered with forests and heathlands. The largest towns are Stendal, with a population of 39,000, and Salzwedel (21,500).\n\nBefore the Migration Period of 300 to 700 AD, the Lombards had settled the future Altmark. Subsequently, Old Germanic Saxon tribes lived in the northwest and Polabian Slavs in the eastern territories along the Elbe. After the Saxon Wars, waged by Charlemagne from 772 to 804, the lands became part of the Carolingian Empire. They formed part of the Eastphalian territory of the Duchy of Saxony, which, from 843 onwards, constituted the eastern borderlands of East Francia under Louis the German. The bishops of Verden and of Halberstadt promoted the Christianisation of the Saxon population.\n\nIn 936 the German king Otto I allotted the territory of the later Altmark to the Saxon Count Gero, in order to subdue the West Slavic Wends settling on the Elbe. Gero thereafter campaigned in the Slavic lands far beyond the river Elbe and thereafter established the Saxon stretching up to the Oder in the east. Upon Gero's death in 965, his was split and the Northern March was granted to Dietrich of Haldensleben, who nevertheless turned out to be an incapable ruler and lost all the territories east of the Elbe in the Slavic Lutici uprising of 983. He retained only his margravial title and the initial land basis of his predecessor Gero's conquests west of the river.\n\nFor further one-and-a-half centuries, the lands east of the Elbe defied German control, until in 1134 Emperor Lothair of Supplinburg bestowed the Northern March on the Ascanian count Albert the Bear. Albert signed an inheritance contract with the Slavic Hevelli prince Pribislav and in 1150 succeeded him in his eastern territory around the fortress of Brandenburg an der Havel, which became the nucleus of his newly established Margraviate of Brandenburg in 1157. \n\nAs the Brandenburg margraves expanded their territory during the course of the , the original western territory of the Northern March became known as the Altmark (literally \"Old March\") in contrast to the (Middle March) and (New March) beyond the Oder river; the written record first mentions it in 1304 as .\n\nAs part of Brandenburg, from 1415 held by the House of Hohenzollern, the Altmark became part of Brandenburg-Prussia and (from 1701) of the Kingdom of Prussia. After Prussia's defeat at the hands of Napoleon in 1806, the terms of the Treaty of Tilsit (1807) assigned the territory of the Altmark to the new Kingdom of Westphalia. Prussia regained the area upon Napoleon's defeat (per Article XXIII of the Final Act of the Congress of Vienna, 1815); however, it was incorporated into the new Prussian Province of Saxony rather than being attached to the Province of Brandenburg. Within Prussian Saxony, the Altmark was subdivided into the districts of Salzwedel, Gardelegen, Osterburg, and Stendal, all administered within the of Magdeburg.\n\nAfter World War II the Altmark, lying to the east of the inner German border, became part of the new state of Saxony-Anhalt in the Soviet occupation zone. The regional administration of East Germany saw it administered within from 1952 to 1990. With German reunification in 1990, the Altmark became part of a reconstituted Saxony-Anhalt.\n\nThe region is drained by the Elbe, joined by the Havel at Havelberg, and its left tributaries of the Milde-Biese-Aland system and the Jeetzel river.\n\nThe largest natural lake of the Altmark is the Arendsee.\n\nThe Altmark is located off the main traffic routes. The Bundesautobahn 14 leads to the Bundesautobahn 2 from Hanover to Berlin, it however ends north of Magdeburg. A continuation through the Altmark towards Schwerin is planned. Beside which the Federal roads B71, B107, B188, B189, B190, B248 run through the region.\n\nStendal station is a stop on the Hanover–Berlin high-speed railway. Other lines include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6391797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391797", "title": "Anton Bezenšek", "text": "Anton Bezenšek\n\nAnton Bezenšek (15 April 1854 – 11 December 1915) was a Slovene linguist, journalist, shorthand expert, and lecturer, who spent most of his life in Bulgaria. He is known as the scholar who adapted the Gabelsberger shorthand system to the South Slavic languages.\n\nBezenšek was born in a small village of Bezenškovo Bukovje near Frankolovo, Slovenia, in what was then the Austrian Duchy of Styria. He attended the Celje First Grammar School at the age of 12 and graduated with honours. In 1873 he was elected for a chairman of a school student organization, and learnt the Croatian adaptation of Gabelsberger Shorthand. Later, he entered the University of Zagreb, where he studied Greek, Latin, and Bulgarian in the philosophy faculty. As a student, he delivered a shorthand course, which was attended by 236 people in 5 years. After graduating, Bezenšek visited Prague, Dresden and Ljubljana, obtained a teaching permission, and worked in Zagreb as a chief stenographer in Parliament. In his 1890 biographic notes, he expressed ideas about a common South Slavic shorthand system: \"It would be of benefit to the spread of shorthand among South Slavs to establish a South-Slavic Shorthand Union, like the German or Northern Shorthand Union, <nowiki>[...]</nowiki> it should have an agency of its own and should hold an annual congress once in Zagreb, once in Belgrade, once in Sofia, once in Ljubljana.\"\n\nResponding to an invitation from the Bulgarian government, and after being recommended by his colleague Spas Vatsov, Bezenšek moved to the recently formed Kingdom in 1879, and worked as a chief stenographer at the National Assembly in Sofia. He agreed on a salary, which was lower than what he could have earned for a professorship. On 25 September 1879 he conducted the first shorthand course in Bulgaria.\n\nIn 1884 one of the chief stenographer's students reported against him, and Bezenšek was fired from his job at the National Assembly, but instead of accepting proposals for a return to Slovenia and Croatia, he decided to move to Plovdiv, which was then the capital of Eastern Rumelia. From 1885 until 1905, he worked in high schools there, introducing Ethics into the curriculum, as well as applying modern methodologies for studying foreign languages — e.g. his \"New practical manual for easily learning the German language\" ().\n\nBezenšek moved to Sofia again in 1906, and stayed there till his death. He remained an active scholar, issued a lot of publications and translations, and had been a lecturer at the Sofia University from 1911. Bezenšek played a significant role for fostering the dialogue \nbetween Bulgarians and Slovenians, publishing a number of works in \nSlovenian on Bulgarian matters and vice versa.\n\n"}
{"id": "23688818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23688818", "title": "Arend Jan Boekestijn", "text": "Arend Jan Boekestijn\n\nArend Johannes \"Arend Jan\" Boekestijn (27 September 1959, Amstelveen) is a Dutch politician, who was a member of the Dutch House of Representatives from 30 November 2006 through 18 November 2009. He resigned after sharing information with the press regarding a confidential conversation with the Queen.\n\n"}
{"id": "46893699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46893699", "title": "Armazi stele of Vespasian", "text": "Armazi stele of Vespasian\n\nThe Armazi stele of Vespasian () is a stele with Ancient Greek inscriptions found in 1867 at Armazi, near Mtskheta, Georgia in the ancient capital of the Kingdom of Iberia. The stele memorialises reinforcement of fortification of Armazi walls by Emperor Vespasian. Additionally, the inscription mentions two emperors Titus, Domitian and two kings Mihrdat I of Iberia, Pharasmanes I of Iberia and prince royal Amazaspus. The inscription is dated 75 AD. The top of the stele is lost. According to Professor David Braund the missing text was in Latin or Armazic (outgrowth of Aramaic language). Cyril Toumanoff identifies Amazaspus as King Amazasp I of Iberia, though it can be prince royal Amazaspus, son of Pharasmanes I of Iberia, who is known from the Epigram of Amazaspos found in Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "34335413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34335413", "title": "Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic", "text": "Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic\n\nAspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic is a study of Anglo-Saxon paganism and the role of magic in Anglo-Saxon England that was written by the English poet and independent scholar Bill Griffiths. It was first published in 1996 by Anglo-Saxon Books, and later republished in a revised edition in 2003.\n\nDivided into two parts, the first section of the book is devoted to a discussion of Anglo-Saxon paganism and magical beliefs, in doing so drawing evidence from Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Classical sources. It looks at a wide range of different areas, including the Anglo-Saxons conception of gods, the beliefs regarding death and the ancestors, and the ideas about elves and dwarves.\n\nThe use of historical written sources to learn more about the pre-Christian religion of the Anglo-Saxons was something that had been going on for many decades prior to the publication of \"Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic\".\nIn 1948, Godfrid Storms published \"Anglo-Saxon Magic\", a study of the subject which also contained a complete collection of Anglo-Saxon charms.\n\nIn the first chapter, entitled \"The Up World\", Griffiths discusses the Anglo-Saxons' pre-Christian beliefs about their gods, looking at the veneration of idols and the manner in which the deities were understood by the Anglo-Saxons, in doing so contrasting them with those of the Classical world. Moving on into the second chapter, \"The Dead World\", Griffiths deals with the role of the ancestors in Anglo-Saxon heathenism before proceeding on to discuss beliefs in an afterlife and the reasons for performing sacrifice, Chapter three, \"The Around World\", looks into the beliefs regarding those species who were neither god nor humans, such as the elves and dwarves, as well as the Anglo-Saxon magical beliefs regarding medicine and agriculture.\n\nThe fourth chapter, which is entitled \"The Empty World\", deals with those Anglo-Saxon texts which portray the supernatural world as \"a bleak reality\"”, looking at conceptions of predestination and fate, whilst the fifth, entitled \"The Rational World\", dealt with the role of Anglo-Saxon Christianity and the wider effect that this had on English society, in particular discussing the significance of Bede,\n\nThe second part of the book contains a series of Anglo-Saxon texts pertaining to Anglo-Saxon magical practices.\n\n\"Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic\" has not been the subject of any scholarly book reviews.\n\nThe academic archaeologist Neil Price made reference to \"Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic\" in his study of Norse magical beliefs, \"The Viking Way: Religion and War in Late Iron Age Scandinavia\" (2002). Praising Griffiths' approach in describing the \"fluid ambiguities\" of Anglo-Saxon cosmological beliefs, he considered such an approach to be an improvement on British archaeologist David M. Wilson's book \"Anglo-Saxon Paganism\" (1992), which he believed had failed to even discuss Anglo-Saxon conceptions of cosmology. Price thought that it was pertinent to \"bear [Griffiths'] flexible view of the cosmos in mind\" when studying Norse cosmological beliefs.\n\nApart from these mentions in Neil Price's out-of-print PhD thesis, Griffith's book has not made any impact within scholarship in the fields of northern paganism or Anglo-Saxon studies.\n\nWriting on the \"Twisted Tree Bookshelf\" website, Contemporary Pagan D. James reviewed the book, praising it as a \"comprehensive\" study of the subject of Anglo-Saxon paganism and magic. Opining that it was a \"ground breaking\" study, James compared it to Brian Bates' \"The Way of Wyrd\" and recommended it to all practicing Pagans.\n\n"}
{"id": "7472712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7472712", "title": "Bela Borsody Bevilaqua", "text": "Bela Borsody Bevilaqua\n\nBela Borsody Bevilaqua (1885–1962) was a Hungarian cultural historian.\n\nBela Borsody and his family lived the history of Hungary. According to his own account in \"Víziváros\", the first Bevilacqua to visit Hungary was Marchese Alfonso Bevilacqua Conte della Maccastorna in 1676. Marchese Alfonso's wife, Countess Felicita Andreasi daughter of Marchesi Amorotti Andreasi Da Grado of Ferrara accompanied her husband to visit Prince Ferenc I Rakoczi (1645–76) and Rakoczi's father-in-law, Peter Zrinyi Viceroy of Croatia. The purpose of the visit was social; however, all of these families were vehemently opposed to the Austrian Habsburg domination of Hungary and northern Italy.\n\nIn 1699, Marchese Alfonso Bevilacqua and Countess Felicita Andreasi's son named Nicola (1677–1761) was invited to stay in Hungary by Prince Ferenc Rákóczi II (1676–1735). Nicola's brother, Morando, was a priest and was invited to be Racoczi II's spiritual advisor, confessor, and personal priest. Nicola and Morando stayed in Hungary in the service of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi II assisting him in organizing alliances against the Habsburg Emperor Leopold I. Nicola and Morando fought with Prince Ferenc Rakoczi II during the War of Independence from 1703 until 1711 against the Habsburg Emperor Leopold I. Nicola began the Ramus Hungaricus branch of the Bevilaqua family in 1699. His son was Conte Joannis Petri Bevilaqua born in Selmeczbanya in 1740. The letter “c” was dropped from the Bevilacqua name to make it easier to pronounce in Hungarian.\nNicola managed the production of silver, gold, lead, copper, and arsenic for Prince Rakoczi II. At that time, only the nobility was allowed to own and operate mines. Nicola lived at the summit of Calvarienberg Mountain in the Hungarian Ore Mountain range in a castle with an adjacent church. The castle is now used as a fire watch-tower and the town hall. Nicola and his son Joannis Petri were instrumental in establishing an academy of refining and forestry funded by Maria Theresa, Queen of Hungary and Bohemia, Archduchess of Austria, and Roman-German Empress (1717–1780) in 1760. The Academy still maintains a remarkable collection of minerals, and a chemical laboratory while the mines are now the property of the state. The Bevilaqua family was also instrumental in developing a flourishing pottery industry, and a well-known tobacco pipes business. They also developed the baths of Vihnye, with springs of iron, lime, and carbonic acid, and the baths of Szkleno with springs of sulphur and lime.\n\nBéla Borsody Bevilaqua was born in the town of Miskolc in Borsod county, on February 23, 1885. He was the great-grandson of Conte Joannis Petri Bevilaqua, who continued the Ramus Hungaricus branch of the Bevilaqua family. Borsody, Bela's middle name referred to the county in which he was born. Bela's grandfather was also named Bela. There is a musical manuscript from 1833 in the possession of the Hungarian Popular Music Centre, coming from Béla Bevilaqua & Co's art shop in Breznóbánya.\n\nAutobiographical data.\n\nBéla's father, Rezső (Rudolf) Bevilaqua was born April 20, 1849, in Léva within Bars county in Upper Hungary. He graduated from college as a qualified teacher. From 1871 to 1872 he wrote for the Debreczeni Inspector, his writings were included the Debreczi-Oradea Report and Wake newspapers. He also edited and published the DEBRECZENI weekly. He studied and became a lawyer in Kecskemet, and then entered the government service as an administrator in the postal service. He became postmaster general of Upper Hungary. In 1888, Rezső Bevilaqua moved to Buda with his family in the service of the government as postmaster general of Hungary. Béla was three years old then and had two elder sisters. The family first lived at an estate at 44 Iskola utca, but they soon moved to a larger estate on Szagényház utca (today's Varsányi Irén utca) which has recently been demolished next to number 13 in the historical Víziváros section of Budapest.\n\nBéla's mother was Mária Szentessy, a sister, according to \"Víziváros\", was “the well-known poet” Gyula Szentessy. Their father, Bela Borsody's grandfather, Daniel Szentessy was one of the Globetrotters that Bela Borsody wrote about in his book entitled \"Regi Magyar Vilagjrok\" or \"Hungarian Old World Travellers\". Dániel Szentessy (1805, Zemplénszentes – 1895, Nagyvárad) was a sword-forging master. His family ruled the city of Szentes from which his surname is derived szentesi. After the early death of his parents, he was adopted by a Nagyvárad merchant. He completed the Várad Latin school and studied sword-forging. As a journeyman, he started his wanderings in 1825. The main stations of his fifteen years of travels were the world-famous places of contemporary armoury: Vienna, Innsbruck, Alsace-Lorraine, Flandreau, Sheffield, Bayonne, Cordoba, Toledo, Algiers, Tunis, Damascus, and Istanbul. He returned home to open a workshop in Nagyvárad in 1840. He took part in the 1848 Revolution. He was court-martialed and sentenced to two years’ imprisonment in Munkács Castle. Released in 1851, he lived in Nagyvárad until his death.\n\nBéla Borsody Bevilaqua went to the Piarist elementary school in Pest, and the Evangelical grammar school in Késmárk. The costs of his education at this boarding school were covered by his foster-father, his elder sister's, Hilda's husband, Lajos Nagy from Kossoncz, who was a lawyer. Bela Borsody's father, the Buda postmaster general, died when he was 47, in the year of the millenary or 1896 when Hungary celebrated the 1,000th anniversary of the Magyar Conquest.\n\nBéla Borsody Bevilaqua mentioned another “foster-father”, the noble László Farkas from Indircs, who later became godfather to Béla Borsody's son. Farkas was a close friend of Rezső Bevilaqua: a landowner from Kőröstétlen, he also lived in Buda on Sövény utca. He was a plant grower, and he had a close connection with scientific circles via his activity as an amateur botanist. After the war, he lost his lands and fortune and finished his life as a gardener in the Városmajor Gardens.\n\nUntil the age of twelve, Béla Bevilaqua always spent the whole year in Víziváros, then as a student in Késmárk, he spent every summer there. When his sister married, his widowed mother moved to live with the young couple in a large house at 60 Toldy Ferenc UTCA. The estate still has its old garden which creeps up a slope to Szabó Ilonka utca. There is a gate there with the house number 59.\n\nLajos Nagy's younger brothers’ years in Buda started here as well; their names were Pál and László. Later they moved to houses of their own: Pál lived in Hajdúhadháza, while László lived in Víziváros. Hilda, after her husband died from a stroke, lived in Lágymányos. Pál was struck to death with hoes and spades by “the looting mob in the stables of his mansion in Hajdúhadháza” in 1945. László, an army corps commander in Budapest after 1920, was caught by the Reaper in Balatonalmád on his way escaping towards the west. Hilda perished in misery during the siege and bombing of Budapest; she was buried in the garden of the Technical University. Later, her body was taken to the Óbuda cemetery in 1947. The father of the Kosonczi Nagy family mentioned above was Lajos Kosonczi Nagy, an artillery lieutenant in the 1848 revolution. Later he became a judge of the Court of Appeal, a noble from Kolozsvár living in the Hajdú region. A successive generation of the Nagy family, Hilda Bevilaqua's sister, Lenke, lived in Kolozsvár even in the 1960s.\n\nBela Borsody Bevilaqua finished his studies at the arts faculty of Pest University in 1908: his graduation paper, on the Rhetoric of Alexandros, was supervised by the classical philologist István Hegedűs. Bela Borsody's doctoral thesis was completed in 1911. Also, he attended medical university as a student in 1930 but did not complete his degree. Bela Borsody's first job was as a museum assistant in the National Museum, and he became an under-keeper. He worked in Hungary's number one public collection from 1911 to 1914 in the library which became the predecessor of the National Széchenyi Library.\n\nHe was called to front service in the autumn of 1914: he was garrisoned in Krakow in 1916, and had served in Albania and Bosnia by 1918. When he had the opportunity, he enthusiastically collected ethnographical particulars. He was impressed by ethnography, a strong attraction to this field of cultural history was always reflected in his works. He always carried his data in his mind, and members of his changeable but always exacting table society were amazed at his legendary retentive memory.\n\nOn arriving home from the frontline, he opened an antiquity shop in one of the Károlyi houses in the town centre, at 25 Veres Pálné utca. He lived at 65 Váci utca; but when he was an under-keeper, he was a tenant at 41 Liget utca in Kőbánya, and later at 14 Fortuna utca in Buda. He was trying to make a business of the antiquity shop until 1925, but not with much success. Then he found a job in the National Military Museum, and he worked there until 1931 in the position of a first assistant. Then he became a person of private means and attended medical school.\n\nThe year 1935 was a turning point in Bela Borsody's career: “he began to live the life of a writer in Budapest” according to Pál Gulyás’ book \"Work and Lives of Hungarian Writers\". That summer, in one of his newspaper articles, Bela Borsody wrote about his childhood, which always played an important role in his writing. He wrote with a certain nostalgia for the “little boy from Buda with glasses, bald-headed, weighing 235 pounds and standing six feet four inches tall”. Despite his old age that he lamented, Bela Borsody was at full physical and social strength who as a private person and a phenomenon in Pest made a strong impact on public memory. The coffee house wizard is still remembered; the legend of his life is made colourful by the irreversible past.\n\nBorsordy was an expert on the history of Hungarian economics, and wrote a book called \"Régi és új Magyar Takácsmesterségek\" or Old and \"New Weaver Crafts of Hungary\".\n\nB.B.B.’s book \"Magyar Gaudeamus or Old Hungarian Student Songs\" (1932) is about historical students' customs and songs of Hungary. It contains the lyrics of thirty-two songs with piano arrangements harmonized by Tibor Kazacsay. Tibor Kazacsay (March 12, 1892, Budapest - October 5, 1977, Budapest) was a composer and pianist who graduated from the Academy of Music in 1914. He taught musical theory at the National Music Institute and the Berlin Klindwort-Scharwenka Conservatory. His cantata \"Song about Margaret Island\", composed in memory of the great eighteenth-century Hungarian poet János Arany, was awarded the \"Quality Prize\" of Budapest City Council in 1958. In 1960, he composed his \"Ode of Mourn\" in memory of his passed wife with lyrics by István Raics. While his early style is based on romantic harmonies from the last century, his Balaton Symphony reached the diatonic and modal folk song style first introduced by Bartók and Kodály. His other works include: \"Dreamland\" (1932); \"Small Songs on Animals\" (children's songs collection, lyrics by Lili B. Radó, 1937); \"Max and Móric\" (grotesque symphony, 1938). He also authored a book called \"The Harmonic Theory of New Music\" (1944, Budapest).\n\nB.B.B. is still remembered for books such as \"The History of the Observatory of Eger University\". The famous observatory in Eger was designed by the astronomer Miksa Hell and built-in 1776. Hell was approached by the founder, Archbishop Károly Esterházy, and replied: \"There is nothing I wish to do more than to serve my country as well as your Excellency in this manner.\" Mikas Hell had previously designed and built an observatory at Kolozsvár when he taught at the Jesuit Academy in 1753. Hell had later taught at Lõcse and Zsolna, and in 1755 became director of the University of Vienna observatory. Miksa Hell, a Jesuit, had an important role in the establishment of almost all of the early observatories. He lived in Vienna for thirty-two years, and there published a number of famous Ephemerides, that is, almanacs. Venus was to pass before the Sun in 1769, and the Danish king invited him to make observations at Vardö. Their observations of June 3 helped them calculate the solar parallax, the distance of the Earth from the Sun. Their measurement was questioned by contemporaries, but the accuracy of Hell's figures was later confirmed. It was an achievement that had the greatest international recognition of any during the classical phase of Hungarian astronomy. The Spekula Observatory astronomical museum is located in the library tower, and Bevilaqua had a planet named after him for his book.\n\nBBB made a lifestyle of being a coffee-house writer sitting in libraries, archives, and at café tables. He collected data, which he later organized in large, cultural-historical monographs. He made shorter essays and thick volumes, and he probably had his fees in kind from butchers, beer brewers, and café owners alike. Themes of essays and monographs from BBB's early years covered the history of the malaria epidemic in Montenegro, Arthur Görgey's Frauenhoffer and Dollond telescopes, and the keys of castle gates. He was also one of the apostles of Hungarian puppetry art and identified historic artifacts in the royal graves at Székesfehérvár. Here can be found the Castle Károlyi, which was built from the castle of the Perényi family by Heinrich Koch Wiener architect in 1884.\n\nBela Bevilaqua also wrote about the cultural history of polo, and he wrote an opera libretto about Mátyás deák, a hero in legends and folktales. He worked on a fantastic novel called \"Wooden Sparrow\", and the cultural history of spectacles. The latter work gave him the opportunity to dine once a week at the house of optician András Gács. Although these books were almost entirely destroyed, \"Víziváros\" survived as a six-hundred-page long memorial of BBB. Forty copies of \"Víziváros\" have been “adopted” by a society caring for Budapest's past, present and future. These books were auctioned, and the income was spent on saving and renewing the legendary cultural historian's memorial tomb in Kerepesi cemetery. The tomb was donated by the international PEN society for his magnificent writing like the two-volume on the history of Hungarian beer brewing.\n\nBela Borsody's \"A Hungarian Memorial to Albrecht Dürer\" was written because of the close relationship between Dürer and the Bevilacqua family in Italy. Morando Bevilacqua's family had constructed a castle and a church to form the ancient nucleus of the city of Trento during Roman times. Trento was located on the ancient Antoniin Roman road, an important trade route between Europe and the Mediterranean. Over time, the ancient Bevilaqua Castle came to be known as the imposing Buonconsiglio Castle which contains the famous frescoes called the Cycle of Months completed in 1400 by an anonymous Bohemian artist. For each month of the year, the frescoes depict the lives of the peasant and the nobility: harvesting, grape picking, parades, games, and tournaments. The area surrounding Trento had expansive forests for lumber, grapes for wine production, mulberry bushes to raise silkworms, and the Italian silk industry began there in 400 A.D.\n\nOn his return journey from Venice to Germany in 1495, Dürer painted a watercolor of \"The Castle at Trento\" which is displayed in the British Museum in London. Dürer also painted another castle owned by the Bevilacqua family: \"View of Arco\" (1495) was a watercolor and gouache on paper now displayed in the Musée du Louvre, Paris. Alfonso II Bevilacqua (1567–1622) married Livia, the daughter of Count Massimiliano d’ Arco. Alfonso II was a Gentleman of the Table of the Duke of Ferrara Alfonso II d’ Este, Honorary Chamberlain of the Duke of Mantova Carlo I Gonzaga, and Alfonso II inherited the title and property as the Marquisate of Serra.\n\nAlfonso II and Livia lived in the Castle d’Arco documented to have been first constructed in 1124 when \"Fridericus de Archi\" was granted the property by Barbarossa and the Prince-Bishop of Trento. Livia d'Arco was living in Ferrara in the household of her relative Margherita Gonzaga, at the time of her marriage to Alfonso II in 1579. Livia was living with the Gonzaga family because of her musical talent playing the viol, under the instruction of Luzzasco Luzzaschi and the Ferrarese maestro di cappella, Ippolito Fiorino.\n\nLivia was the great-granddaughter of Odorico, the Count d’ Arco, and Cecilia Gonzaga of Marquis Ludovico II Gonzaga. Livia was the granddaughter of Count Nicolo d’Arco, the famous poet, and Giulia Gonzaga di Novellara. Livia's father, Massimiliano inherited the title of Count d’Arco and married Klara Ludovica von Lodron of the Prince of Bavaria. After Klara's death, Massimiliano married Olimpia Guerrieri and they had six children including Livia.\n\nAs a university student, Bela Borsody “fought a duel of love”, as he wrote in \"Víziváros\", and was put into the state jail for a few days. He loved life and company, and the cafés served as study-rooms for all his life. In Nap utca, where he lived between the 1940s and his death, there is somebody, who still remembers him and speaks about him spending all his days “at Bodó’s writing notes at a table by the shop window”. The same was mentioned by a well-definable circle of journalists on the occasion of his death early in the spring of 1962, and then at dedicating his tombstone, when they commemorated his legendary figure. Péter Ruffy wrote about “a larger than life figure, Pest-Buda’s curious expert, whose “big and enormous work was often paid with food bills from coffee shop owners, breweries, and butchers. Due to existential need, the chronicler’s fees were consumed, and despite his huge working capacity, the thick volumes and thousands of pages, the author spent all his life under straitened circumstances.”\n\nFerenc Némethy in \"Magyar Nemzet\", the Hungarian daily newspaper, wrote about Bela Borsody's “simple and modest” lifestyle, but he also remarks that this did not make the author timid. Once in the street, he had an argument with the fascist prime minister, Gyula Gömbös. The prime minister's poor driving caused an accident, in which an elderly workwoman was injured, and then the minister quickly changed places with his chauffeur. As a witness of the accident, Béla Bevilaqua, strong and confident, demanded an explanation, although he knew who he was. Gömbös, looking at Bevilaqua's large fists, sneaked away.”\n\nOf course, the strong physical behaviour, not usually typical of cultural historians, faded as he was growing old. “You could see that he could not walk, sit down or stand up easily. Still, he wrote. And waiters served Uncle Béla with silent respect. We often gave him sheets of paper, pencils, or a rubber, so that he could work.” György Kőbányai says in his obituary, “We sat down at his table in the café – this was his office and home – and he knew that he had to help the young generation: ‘You don’t know anything about the town,’ he said.” Kőbányai witnessed how down good old B.B.B. was in his last year, or years: he drank only weak tea, and he asked for two rounds of hot water to fill up the cup when he sipped out half of it.\n\nHis constant companion was Olga Finály, a teacher and poet who was more than twenty years younger than he was, and she adored him with love. They were together almost every day in the cafés and coffee-houses. When they ordered something, Bevilaqua would say, “Well, let’s sell the skin before we kill the bear!” He would get a fee for something sooner or later, he promised. Olga Finály, of course, knew very well that beloved Béla would never kill that bear.\n\nThe master had a strong uvular “r” when he spoke, but his strong baritone voice reached the neighbouring tables. People who were listening to his stories when he stopped writing his slanted lines on quarter-folded sheets did not mind that he omitted articles in speech. His written style had its strange features as well: when a noun was important for him, he started it with a capital letter, and he used quotation marks with nouns of special importance.\n\nOn the first anniversary of his death, Ágnes Fedor wrote in \"Esti Hírlap\", the evening newspaper, about a 1963 encounter with Bela Borsody in a café at Király utca and Károly körút. Bevilaqua spoke about his film scenario. It was the outline of a fantastic play called \"Faveréb\" (Wooden Sparrow), about which Bela Borsody wrote much more in \"Víziváros\". It is about a millionaire who buys some elixir, the water of resurrection. However, the characters that are brought back to life realize that “life is life only as long as it is real”. He also wrote operetta books and puppetry plays. In the 1950s, he was the founder and chairman of the Puppetry Artists’ Association. In addition to writing, he designed scenery, museum displays, and architectural decoration. The majolica mail-coach on the building at 13 Régiposta utca was made based on his drawings.\n\nWe know several places where he regularly turned up to write and live during the years. One is the Centrál Coffee House, others are the Huszár and Bodó's. But he often visited an “espresso bar” in Király utca, especially after the war and when he lived in Buda, or the Hadik, which was one of Karinthy's frequented places. And he often went to the Japán. He was restlessly working on those thousands of pages, helped only by his memory. As we read his printed texts, we know that he often mistook details or he did not remember if he had already completed a certain story in an earlier chapter of the material that he was working on. Since nobody edited his volumes, these mistakes and repeated contents of several passages appeared twice or sometimes three times in the published version as well.\n\nHis lines should be read with criticism, but this is not a reason why we should not pay respect to his unusual memory. After all, he clearly remembered at least two-thirds of the details. And people who have read anything of his work all know that it almost entirely consists of data. The colours and phraseology of live speech are missing from his scholastic volumes. Even so, they are colourful. The author‘s personality strikes through the scenery of the rather arbitrarily defined mass of information.\n\nÁgnes Fedor’s article 'Bevilaqua' from the \"Esti Hírlap\" newspaper states, “Bela Borsody Bevilaqua (B.B.B.) was a patron saint of journalists; there are even some young contemporary ones who were presented a splendid mosaic tile of the history of Budapest… By chance, I myself got much more from him than this. I think he saved my life in a way… When I made an interview with him in 1939 about the origin of Hungarian Jews, who he considered to be Khazar on the evidence of geographical and family names he looked at me and asked, ‘Does this anti-Semitic law apply to you as well?’ I nodded. ‘But you’re a typical Khazar, too!’ he said. He stared at me drawing an inventory of my features, which was very common that time – but he did it for the purpose of saving my life. Then he said, ‘With these features, complexion and bone structure you can securely mingle as a Slovakian maidservant. It’s only your eyebrows that you have to dye fair!’ It was snowing in March 1944 just like today, when I first considered taking his advice. I dyed my eyebrows fair in the danger of death. And I survived.”\n\nFedor Ágnes went on to publish her book \"Sárga Nárcisz\". This book was a collection of her poems from 1939 through 1945. The journalist poet recorded the events of the persecution and the Holocaust in poems, together with comments on the political events. It was published in Budapest in 1945 by Magyar Téka Publishers. Bevilaqua Borsody Béla Borsody secretly wrote a book during World War II called Német Maszlag Othotól Adolf Hitlerig 972-1945 published in Budapest by Magyar Téka in 1945. Nemet Maszlag means “He will take no lies” and it is based on German data on the history of the German persecution of Hungarian Jews from the year 972 with a special focus on Adolf Hitler's atrocities. The International PEN Society, an association of writers formed in 1926 to defend freedom of expression with 140 centres in 99 countries, awarded B.B.B. their highest honor for using the power of the word for the expression of the freedom of thought in the face of grave personal danger.\n\nBela Borsody's second wife, according to Pál Gulyás's biography, was Ella Weiss, the daughter of Jónás Weiss and Nanette Gottlieb. B.B.B. married Ella Weiss in the late 1920s, and she must have died in the late 1950s: the register of his third marriage shows that the “writer and historian” was a widower when he got married for the third time.\n\nBela Borsody's fourth marriage was to Magdolna Mányi, granddaughter of the famous engineer-teacher István Kruspér. They got married on March 2, 1962, but Bevilaqua died on March 12. György Kőbányai tells about the romantic marriage ceremony in his obituary as follows: “He lived in Nap utca, Józsefváros, for tens of years, but at the end of last year he moved to a small flat in Kisfaludy utca. A metal bed, cupboard, table, books, and lumber… he lit a candle in the evening. It was the end of February when he left the house for the last time. The old scholar was not alone when he came back: he was supported by an exquisite old lady. ‘This is my fiancée,’ he introduced her to the caretaker. Love lasting for a lifetime. They had met when he was a student, but they parted. They loved each other, they had been exchanging letters for more than half a century. The lady was from Martonvásárhely, she was a scientist and a retired teacher. Now she accompanied the scholar, who was sick, up to the street and called a doctor.\n\nAt three o’clock in the afternoon on March 1 they called a registry officer. They were married by Dr. Imre Felméri, the registry officer of the council of district 8, who stood by the sick-bed, the rickety metal bed. There was candlelight, and one of the marriage witnesses, Béla Pethő, local butcher, bought a bottle of wine. ‘Yes,’ it was said twice, then Borsodi-Bevilaqua shook hands with the registry officer, his eyes sparkling, and said, ‘Thank you for marrying us, now I’m sure I’ll recover.’\n\nHis wife was beside him, taking care of him. He fell asleep in God and closed his eyes forever at dawn yesterday. The death register recorded cerebral hemorrhage; the patient waited for the unavoidable in Rókus Hospital. A lot of people mourned for him; so did Putyi, with whom he built up the connection again after the middle of the 1940s. His son sent four parcels to his Budapest address in 1961–62. Being in possession of a certificate of poverty, as it is mentioned in his letters, he hoped to be dispensed from paying customs duty. The mail exchange between Bellino and his father and their finding each other when Putyi was twenty-one years of age.\n\nA lot of people mourned for BBB. It was not the “legal” widow, Magdolna Mányi in her mid-60s that time, that expressed the greatest sorrow, but Olga Finály. She was his faithful attendant and companion in his last years. She paid his bills, typed his manuscripts, and who knows how further in tenderness enthusiastic love carried them. Because it was love, the deep mourn proves it. Here are the last two stanzas of her poem ‘In memory of the scholar’: “Through the narrow, dim window / eternity came to see him, / may all my songs get softer, / eternity came to see him / through the narrow, dim window, // The all-the-same embraces me, / no need to worry anymore, / hour and minute fall apart, / the all-the-same embraces me.” And here is another, written in 1957 (a third, fourth, fifth one might just as well be quoted): “Remember me. With a sick child’s word / I ask you, like my father, / hold my hand when wandering / through a dense forest / crying to shout after you; / don’t say my wish is sick and senseless, / and remember then that I loved you.”\n\nThe spectator representing the unbiased posterity has great admiration for the radiation of Béla Bevilaqua Borsody's spirit, his indisputable and unexplainable attraction, by means of which, even in his physical and existential disability, he was able to attach a woman, who was enthusiastic about him, while he married another, giving romantic colour even to his death. “Eternal love. Without Hope. When two pronounce the hard and stubborn word of break-off, behind it with broken wings some hope may glitter – when the train flies off, waving farewell with a shawl suggests future, and forthcoming tomorrow – but I was beaten by the sunset, and became a lonely one to keep your last face to my last face.” Olga Finály.\n\nBela Borsody Bevilaqua's letters from Krakow, where he was garrisoned as an officer in 1916, addressed to his friend, the author, and poet Artúr Keleti, were also signed by a certain lady called Lolly, who appeared as “Mrs. Bevilaqua” in her signature at the end of November. Artúr Keleti was the best known of the contemporary representatives of Hungarian literature. Keleti drew inspiration from the lyrical and bizarre and transformed events into poems and stories. Lolly was Baroness Yolanda Stauffenberger Perényi who took this generation of the family to Washington, D.C. in the United States of America with their son Bellino who was born in February 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "3053139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3053139", "title": "Birger Nerman", "text": "Birger Nerman\n\nBirger Nerman (6 October 1888 – 22 August 1971) was a Swedish archaeologist, professor, and author.\n\nBirger Nerman belonged to a bourgeois family Nerman (Nehrman) from Vimmerby. He was the son of Janne Nerman (1844–1920), the bookseller in Norrköping, and his wife Anna Ida Nordberg. Born in Norrköping, Birger was the younger brother of the Swedish Communist leader Ture Nerman and the twin brother of the artist Einar Nerman. \n\nBirger Nerman taught as a temporary professor at Uppsala University in 1917 and in 1920. In 1923 he became professor in archeology at the University of Dorpat (Tartu, Estonia). There he led the excavations of Izborsk (1924) and Grobin in Latvia (1929), among other early medieval sites.\n\nIn 1925 the Swedish Armed Forces published his \"The Rise of the Swedish Realm\" (\"Det svenska rikets uppkomst\") in which Nerman argued that the formation of the Swedish state had been completed by the 8th century, that it was the direct continuation of the \"powerful Svea kingdom\" mentioned by Tacitus, and that Sweden with its history of two millennia held senior rank among the existing nations of Europe.\n\nIn 1938, Nerman became the head of the Swedish Museum of National Antiquities, a position he held until 1969. In 1946, he became a member of the Swedish Royal Academy of Letters. Between 1967 and 1970, he was chairman of the Swedish Chamber of the World Anti-Communist League.\n\n"}
{"id": "16115839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16115839", "title": "Branibor Debeljković", "text": "Branibor Debeljković\n\nMr Ph. Branibor Debeljkovic is an artist, educator, researcher and historian professor of photography at the University of Arts in Belgrade, Serbia. He was a member of the German Society (DPhG) and the European Society for the History of Photography (ESHPh).\n\nBranibor Debeljkovic was born in 1916 in Pristina, Serbia. He was the first member-photographer of ULUS (Serbian association of artists) and founder of section of photographers of ULUPUS (Serbian association of artists of applied arts). He was the First Serbian historian of photography. POPAC\n\nDebeljkovic was the author of several condensed reviews of history of Serbian photography as well as original works \"Old Serbian Photography\" (published by Serbian National Library)and the monograph \"First Exhibition of Amateurs photographers in Belgrade in 1901\". Branibor Debeljkovic was the author of numerous exhibitions and texts on photography.\n\nBranibor Debeljkovic died in 2003, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n"}
{"id": "19132579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19132579", "title": "Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation (CMAC)", "text": "Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation (CMAC)\n\nThe Center for Maritime Archaeology and Conservation (CMAC) was created in May 2005 by the regents of Texas A&M University.\n\nCMAC supports the Nautical Archaeology Program (NAP) in the Department of Anthropology and strengthens the position of the NAP as the leading program in nautical and maritime archaeology. CMAC encompasses eight laboratories which foster interdisciplinary research, education, and outreach programs:\n\nCMAC provides direction and coordination to scholars worldwide in projects related to nautical archaeology, maritime archaeology, underwater archaeology, or conservation of material recovered from marine or other aqueous environments. CMAC plays a leading role in disseminating the results of nautical archaeology research to both scientists and the general public through the Studies in Nautical Archaeology Series published by Texas A&M University Press, as well as through journal publications and internet presence.\n\n\"La Belle\" was one of Robert de La Salle's four ships when he explored the Gulf of Mexico with the ill-fated mission of starting a French colony at the mouth of the Mississippi River in 1685. \"La Belle\" was wrecked in present-day Matagorda Bay the following year, dooming La Salle's Texas colony to failure. For over three centuries the wreckage of \"La Belle\" lay forgotten until it was discovered by a team of state archaeologists in 1995. The discovery of La Salle's flagship in July 1995 was regarded as one of the most important archaeological finds of the century, and a major excavation was launched by the state of Texas that, over a period of about a year, recovered the entire shipwreck and over a million artifacts. All of the artifacts were removed from the hull by the start of March 1997. From that point on, the archaeologists concentrated on the remains of the ship itself. The entire ship was disassembled, each timber being carefully recorded before and after its removal from the hull remains. Fieldwork was completed by May 1997. The recovered timbers were eventually reassembled in a special cradle and vat designed at Texas A&M University's Nautical Archaeology Program, the institution in charge of the conservation of all the artifacts recovered from the shipwreck site after 1995. The hull of the ship and many of the recovered artifacts, including a cannon, are now on display at the Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum in the state capital of Austin.\n\nThe \"Mardi Gras Shipwreck\" sank some 200 years ago about 35 miles off the coast of Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico in 4,000 feet (1220 meters) of water. The shipwreck, whose real identity remains a mystery, lay forgotten at the bottom of the sea until it was discovered in 2002 by an oilfield inspection crew working for the Okeanos Gas Gathering Company (OGGC). In May 2007, an expedition, led by Texas A&M University and funded by OGGC under an agreement with the Minerals Management Service (now BOEM), was launched to undertake the deepest scientific archaeological excavation ever attempted at that time to study the site on the seafloor and recover artifacts for eventual public display in the Louisiana State Museum. As part of the educational outreach Nautilus Productions in partnership with BOEM, Texas A&M University, the Florida Public Archaeology Network and Veolia Environmental produced a one-hour HD documentary about the project, short videos for public viewing and provided video updates during the expedition. CMAC was tasked with the conservation and analysis of the material recovered from the wreck site.\n\n"}
{"id": "36343260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36343260", "title": "Charlotte Daneau de Muy", "text": "Charlotte Daneau de Muy\n\nCharlotte Daneau de Muy (November 23, 1694 – September 14, 1759) was a Canadian ursuline and annalist. She was the daughter of Nicolas Daneau de Muy and Marguerite Boucher.\n"}
{"id": "3098161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3098161", "title": "Claudia Koonz", "text": "Claudia Koonz\n\nClaudia Ann Koonz (born 1940) is an American historian of Nazi Germany. Koonz's critique of the role of women during the Nazi era, from a feminist perspective, has become a subject of much debate and research in itself.\n\nKoonz received a PhD from Rutgers University in 1970. She has taught at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts, and then at Duke University.\n\nKoonz is best known for documenting the appeal of Nazism to German women, and their enthusiasm in supporting the Nazis. Koonz has established that the leaders of German feminist groups were happy to go along with Gleichschaltung that coerced Germans into following Nazi policy. Koonz has noted that female supporters of the Nazis accepted the Nazi division of the sexes into a public sphere for men and a private sphere for women. Koonz has claimed that women involved in resistance activities were more likely to escape notice owing to the \"masculine\" values of the Third Reich.\n\nAnother notable claim made by Koonz is that women who most successfully asserted themselves in the \"Third Reich\" were also the women who violated the norms of civilized society, such as Ilse Koch. Koonz maintains that only women who were opposed to Nazism 100% can be considered to be a resistance; those women who protested against sterilization and the Action T4 program without protesting the deportation of Jews to death camps are not considered by Koonz to be part of the resistance. Koonz's views have often had her pitted against Gisela Bock in a battle some have referred to as the \"Historikerinnenstreit\" (quarrel among historians of women).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53867278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53867278", "title": "Coloration evidence for natural selection", "text": "Coloration evidence for natural selection\n\nAnimal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available. Three major functions of coloration were discovered in the second half of the 19th century, and subsequently used as evidence of selection: camouflage (protective coloration); mimicry, both Batesian and Müllerian; and aposematism.\n\nCharles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" was published in 1859, arguing from circumstantial evidence that selection by human breeders could produce change, and that since there was clearly a struggle for existence, that natural selection must be taking place. But he lacked an explanation either for genetic variation or for heredity, both essential to the theory. Many alternative theories were accordingly considered by biologists, threatening to undermine Darwinian evolution.\n\nSome of the first evidence was provided by Darwin's contemporaries, the naturalists Henry Walter Bates and Fritz Müller. They described forms of mimicry that now carry their names, based on their observations of tropical butterflies. These highly specific patterns of coloration are readily explained by natural selection, since predators such as birds which hunt by sight will more often catch and kill insects that are less good mimics of distasteful models than those that are better mimics; but the patterns are otherwise hard to explain. \nDarwinists such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Edward Bagnall Poulton, and in the 20th century Hugh Cott and Bernard Kettlewell, sought evidence that natural selection was taking place. Wallace noted that snow camouflage, especially plumage and pelage that changed with the seasons, suggested an obvious explanation as an adaptation for concealment. Poulton's 1890 book, \"The Colours of Animals\", written during Darwinism's lowest ebb, used all the forms of coloration to argue the case for natural selection. Cott described many kinds of camouflage, and in particular his drawings of coincident disruptive coloration in frogs convinced other biologists that these deceptive markings were products of natural selection. Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution, showing that the species had adapted as pollution changed the environment; this provided compelling evidence of Darwinian evolution.\n\nCharles Darwin published \"On the Origin of Species\" in 1859, arguing that evolution in nature must be driven by natural selection, just as breeds of domestic animals and cultivars of crop plants were driven by artificial selection.\nDarwin's theory radically altered popular and scientific opinion about the development of life. However, he lacked evidence and explanations for some critical components of the evolutionary process. He could not explain the source of variation in traits within a species, and did not have a mechanism of heredity that could pass traits faithfully from one generation to the next. This made his theory vulnerable; alternative theories were being explored during the eclipse of Darwinism; and so Darwinian field naturalists like Wallace, Bates and Müller looked for clear evidence that natural selection actually occurred. Animal coloration, readily observable, soon provided strong and independent lines of evidence, from camouflage, mimicry and aposematism, that natural selection was indeed at work. The historian of science Peter J. Bowler wrote that Darwin's theory\n\nIn his 1889 book \"Darwinism\", the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals. He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave \"the obvious explanation\", that it was for concealment. The modern ornithologist W. L. N. Tickell, reviewing proposed explanations of white plumage in birds, writes that in the ptarmigan \"it is difficult to escape the conclusion that cryptic brown summer plumage becomes a liability in snow, and white plumage is therefore another cryptic adaptation.\" All the same, he notes, \"in spite of winter plumage, many Ptarmigan in NE Iceland are killed by Gyrfalcons throughout the winter.\"\n\nMore recently, decreasing snow cover in Poland, caused by global warming, is reflected in a reduced percentage of white-coated weasels that become white in winter. Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats. This was shown to be a result of natural selection by predators making use of camouflage mismatch.\n\nIn the words of camouflage researchers Innes Cuthill and A. Székely, the English zoologist and camouflage expert Hugh Cott's 1940 book \"Adaptive Coloration in Animals\" provided \"persuasive arguments for the survival value of coloration, and for adaptation in general, at a time when natural selection was far from universally accepted within evolutionary biology.\" In particular, they argue, \"Coincident Disruptive Coloration\" (one of Cott's categories) \"made Cott's drawings the most compelling evidence for natural selection enhancing survival through disruptive camouflage.\" Cott explained, while discussing \"a little frog known as \"Megalixalus fornasinii\"\" in his chapter on coincident disruptive coloration, that \"it is only when the pattern is considered in relation to the frog's normal attitude of rest that its remarkable nature becomes apparent... The attitude and very striking colour-scheme thus combine to produce an extraordinary effect, whose deceptive appearance depends upon the breaking up of the entire form into two strongly contrasted areas of brown and white. Considered separately, neither part resembles part of a frog. Together in nature the white configuration alone is conspicuous. This stands out and distracts the observer's attention from the true form and contour of the body and appendages on which it is superimposed\". Cott concluded that the effect was concealment \"so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one\". Such patterns embody, as Cott stressed, considerable precision as the markings must line up accurately for the disguise to work. Cott's description and in particular his drawings convinced biologists that the markings, and hence the camouflage, must have survival value (rather than occurring by chance); and further, as Cuthill and Székely indicate, that the bodies of animals that have such patterns must indeed have been shaped by natural selection.\n\nBetween 1953 and 1956, the geneticist Bernard Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution. He presented results showing that in a polluted urban wood with dark tree trunks, dark moths survived better than pale ones, causing industrial melanism, whereas in a clean rural wood with paler trunks, pale moths survived better than dark ones. The implication was that survival was caused by camouflage against suitable backgrounds, where predators hunting by sight (insect-eating birds, such as the great tits used in the experiment) selectively caught and killed the less well-camouflaged moths. The results were intensely controversial, and from 2001 Michael Majerus carefully repeated the experiment. The results were published posthumously in 2012, vindicating Kettlewell's work as \"the most direct evidence\", and \"one of the clearest and most easily understood examples of Darwinian evolution in action\".\n\nBatesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, \"provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection\" at work. The evolutionary entomologist James Mallet noted that mimicry was \"arguably the oldest Darwinian theory not attributable to Darwin.\" Inspired by \"On the Origin of Species\", Bates realized that unrelated Amazonian butterflies resembled each other when they lived in the same areas, but had different coloration in different locations in the Amazon, something that could only have been caused by adaptation.\n\nMüllerian mimicry, too, in which two or more distasteful species that share one or more predators have come to mimic each other's warning signals, was clearly adaptive; Fritz Müller described the effect in 1879, in an account notable for being the first use of a mathematical argument in evolutionary ecology to show how powerful the effect of natural selection would be.\n\nIn 1867, in a letter to Darwin, Wallace described warning coloration. The evolutionary zoologist James Mallet notes that this discovery \"rather illogically\" followed rather than preceded the accounts of Batesian and Müllerian mimicry, which both rely on the existence and effectiveness of warning coloration. The conspicuous colours and patterns of animals with strong defences such as toxins are advertised to predators, signalling honestly that the animal is not worth attacking. This directly increases the reproductive fitness of the potential prey, providing a strong selective advantage. The existence of unequivocal warning coloration is therefore clear evidence of natural selection at work.\n\nEdward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, \"The Colours of Animals\", renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours \"aposematic\" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection. Poulton's explanations of coloration are emphatically Darwinian. For example, on aposematic colouration he wrote that\n\nPoulton summed up his allegiance to Darwinism as an explanation of Batesian mimicry in one sentence: \"Every step in the gradually increasing change of the mimicking in the direction of specially protected form, would have been an advantage in the struggle for existence\".\n\nThe historian of science Peter J. Bowler commented that Poulton used his book to complain about experimentalists' lack of attention to what field naturalists (like Wallace, Bates, and Poulton) could readily see were adaptive features. Bowler added that \"The fact that the adaptive significance of coloration \"was\" (sic) widely challenged indicates just how far anti-Darwinian feeling had developed. Only field naturalists such as Poulton refused to give in, convinced that their observations showed the validity of selection, whatever the theoretical problems.\"\n"}
{"id": "47889075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47889075", "title": "Cyber Security Agency (Singapore)", "text": "Cyber Security Agency (Singapore)\n\nThe Cyber Security Agency of Singapore (CSA) is a Singaporean government agency under the Prime Minister's Office that provides centralised oversight of national cyber security functions, and works with public and private sector leads to protect Singapore’s critical services, such as those in the energy and banking sectors. Formed on 1 April 2015, the agency also engages with various industries and stakeholders to heighten cyber security awareness as well as to ensure the development of Singapore’s cyber security. It is headed by Ministry of Defence's deputy secretary of technology David Koh. The Minister-in-charge is S. Iswaran of the Ministry of Communications and Information.\n\nThe Cyber Security Agency took over the functions previously carried out by the Singapore Infocomm Technology Security Authority (SITSA), under the Ministry of Home Affairs. SITSA was set up in 2009 as the national specialist authority overseeing operational IT security.\n\nThe CSA also took over some roles undertaken by the then-Infocomm Development of Authority (IDA) such as the Singapore Computer Emergency Response Team, which facilitates the detection, resolution and prevention of security-related incidents on the Internet.\n\nThe agency builds upon the government’s cyber security capabilities, which include strategy and policy development, cyber security operations, industry development and outreach; as well as public communications and engagement.\n\nIt has organised events such as the Singapore International Cyber Week (SICW) in 2016 with over 5,000 attendees from close to 50 countries. The SICW also saw the launch of Singapore’s Cybersecurity Strategy. The second edition of the SICW will be held from 18 to 21 September 2017. Singapore will also host the 2nd ASEAN Ministerial Conference on Cybersecurity this year.\n\nIn October 2016, the prime minister launched Singapore’s Cybersecurity Strategy with the aim to create a resilient and trusted cyber environment for Singapore. Four pillars underpin the strategy:\n\nAs part of Singapore's cybersecurity strategy, internet access of civil servants' work station will be cut-off. David Koh, chief executive of the newly formed Cyber Security Agency, said officials realised there was too much data to secure and \"there is no way to secure this because the attack surface is like a building with a zillion windows, doors, fire escapes\".\n\nSecurity experts commented that the move may only raise the defense against cyber attack slightly but risk damaging productivity of civil servants and those working at more than four dozen statutory boards, and cutting them off from the people they serve.\n\n"}
{"id": "12041145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12041145", "title": "David C. Lindberg", "text": "David C. Lindberg\n\nDavid C. Lindberg (November 15, 1935 – January 6, 2015) was an American historian of science. His main focus was in the history of medieval and early modern science, especially physical science and the relationship between religion and science. Lindberg was the author or editor of many books and received numerous grants and awards. He also served as president of the History of Science Society and in 1999 was recipient of its Sarton medal.\n\nLindberg was the Hilldale Professor Emeritus of History of Science and past director of the Institute for Research in the Humanities, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He held a degree in physics from Northwestern University and a Ph.D. in history and philosophy of science from Indiana University. Lindberg was the author or editor of more than a dozen books, received grants and awards from organizations that included the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, the History of Science Society, the Medieval Academy of America, and the University of Wisconsin–Madison. With Ronald Numbers, he co-edited two anthologies on the relationship between religion and science. Also with Numbers, Lindberg was general editor of the eight-volume Cambridge History of Science and with Michael Shank editor of its volume on medieval ccience. He served as president of the History of Science Society and was awarded its highest prize for lifetime scholarly achievement: the Sarton medal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5165528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165528", "title": "Dislocation of Sami people", "text": "Dislocation of Sami people\n\nThe dislocation of Sami people was the ordered movement of 300–400 Sami people from Jukkasjärvi and Karesuando in the 1920s to 1940s.\n\nThis was outermost a result of political nature between Norway and Russia. Russia wanted the right to keep on fishing in Norwegian fjords but this was denied by Norway. In 1852 Russia answered by cutting off all relationships with Norway, causing regions in Torne Valley (on the Finnish-Russian side) to be excluded from Norwegian Samis' traditional pasture lands and vice versa. About 400 individuals from Norwegian Kautokeino area then started to change nationality to Swedish and settled in the parish of Karesuando, simply to gain access to previous pasture regions in Finland, since Russia said that Swedish Samis could enter Finland. This lasted until 1889, when Russia closed the border between Sweden and Finland also for Swedish Samis.\n\nAfter the pasture in Karesuando became exhausted, which happened very quickly due to many of the families who left Kautokeino had very large herds, some of the original families of Karesuando and some of Kautokeino moved to the parishes of Jukkasjärvi, Gällivare, and Jokkmokk. Among these were Johan Turi. These first movings was all by own choice.\n\nIn 1919 Norway and Sweden wrote a new convention about reindeer pasture areas. This led to the four northernmost Sami villages losing their right to pasture in Norway. As the herds grew and the situation became worse, the Swedish parliament decided that the number of reindeer in Karesuando should be decreased or else moved. Most herders refused to cut down their herd and the authorities decided to move some families from Karesuando by force. In the early 1920s several families and 10,000s of reindeer were moved. Most of them to Arjeplog and Jokkmokk in south Norrbotten but also to Västerbotten particularly Tärnaby. This relocation is what most people mean when they talk about \"dislocation by force\" since those who resisted were threatened by law.\n\nIn the 1940s a few families moved from Karesuando to Jokkmokk and Norway. This was all by own choice.\n\nSince the Northern Sami were different from the Sami originally living in the areas to which they moved, great controversy emerged. Most of the conflicts were centered around reindeer herding since the North Sami were used to other conditions and had different methods of herding. When the authorities intervened, they were unable to solve the problems; however they sided with the North Sami, claiming that they were more \"primitive\" – an opinion possibly based on clear racism. These conflicts between the original users of the land and the newcomers still divide the Sami in the area today.\n\n"}
{"id": "297671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297671", "title": "Dupondius", "text": "Dupondius\n\nThe dupondius (Latin \"two-pounder\") was a brass coin used during the Roman Empire and Roman Republic valued at 2 asses (1/2 of a sestertius or 1/8 of a denarius).\n\nThe dupondius was introduced during the Roman Republic as a large bronze cast coin, although even at introduction it weighed less than 2 pounds. The initial coins featured the bust of Roma on the obverse and a six-spoked wheel on the reverse.\n\nWith the coinage reform of Augustus in about 23 BC, the sestertius and dupondius were produced in a golden colored copper-alloy called orichalcum by the Romans and numismatists, and Latin brass by us, while lower denominations were produced out of reddish copper. However, some dupondii were made entirely from copper under Augustus, while under Nero some aes were made from both orichalcum and copper, instead of only copper for aes coined until then. Therefore, the latter can only be distinguished from dupondii by their smaller size instead of by also the appearance of the metal.\n\nThe dupondius was normally further distinguished from the similarly sized as with the addition of a radiate crown to the bust of the emperor in 66 AD during the reign of Nero. Using a radiate crown to indicate double value was also markedly used on the antoninianus (double denarius) introduced by Caracalla and the double sestertius. Since dupondii minted prior to and during the reign of Nero, and occasionally under later rulers, lack the radiate crown, it is often hard to distinguish between the as and the dupondius due to heavy patina which often obscures the coin's original color.\n\nAn extremely rare dupondius from the reign of Marcus Aurelius, dated to 154 or 155 and in excellent condition, was discovered in 2007 at the archeological site in Draper's Gardens, London.\n\nRoman currency\n"}
{"id": "40524429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40524429", "title": "Early modern demography", "text": "Early modern demography\n\nEarly modern demography is the demography of the world after the end of the medieval period, encompassing the whole of the Early modern period until the availability of accurate census records and other data which form the basis for contemporary demography.\n\nDepending on the context, the end of the medieval world and the beginning of the modern may be dated to the Black Death in the middle of the 14th Century, the Fall of Constantinople in the middle of the 15th Century, or the Age of Exploration and the resulting epidemic deaths.\n\nKarl Julius Beloch estimated the population of early modern Europe, circa 1600, as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57257153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57257153", "title": "Efraín Trelles", "text": "Efraín Trelles\n\nEfraín \"Cholo\" Trelles Aréstegui (28 May 1953 – 1 April 2018), was a Peruvian historian, writer, journalist and sports commentator for press, television and radio.\n\nEfraín Trelles was born in 1953, in Andahuaylas. Historian trained in colonial history, graduated by the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru, with a thesis that became the classic: \"Lucas Martínez Vegazo: operation of an initial Peruvian encomienda\". He was one of the pioneers in introducing the analysis of data and computer models in his study on the loyalties of the kurakas in the Rebellion of Túpac Amaru II, which he published with Magnus Mörner in 1986.\n\nHe then traveled to the University of Austin to do his doctorate studies.\n\nHis foray into sports journalism began as a personal hobby. He worked as a columnist in several newspapers of the Peruvian capital as \"Expreso\" and \"La República\". He worked as a journalist and historian in RPP and Latina Televisión. His last work was as host of the program \"La cátedra\" at Radio Nacional del Perú, along with Roberto Zegarra, Wilmer del Aguila, Ítalo Villarreal, Martín Fernández, Miguel Portanova, Santos Calderón, Dante Mateo, Tito Ponte, Josè Espinoza, among other journalists. \n"}
{"id": "17543925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543925", "title": "Fifty øre (Danish coin)", "text": "Fifty øre (Danish coin)\n\nThe fifty øre coin is the smallest-denomination coin of the Danish krone. Since the removal of the 25 øre coin in 2008, it has been the only Danish coin with a face value of under one krone.\n\nThe design is almost identical to the 25 øre coin issued in 1991, the only differences being the face value of the coin and the size.\n\nThe first coin of the denomination of half of a krone was a ½ krone coin issued in 1924, measuring 20mm in diameter and 2mm in thickness. It featured on its obverse the monogram of King Christian X of Denmark, and the crown on the reverse. It was made of aluminium bronze and shared its design with the krone coin of the time. Its last minting was in 1940 and it was demonetised on 31 December 1942.\n\nThe present fifty øre coin was introduced into circulation on 3 July 1989 after the demonetisation of the five and ten øre coins. Its obverse features the crown of King Christian V of Denmark. The coin is composed of a bronze of 97% copper, 2.5% zinc and 0.5% tin. As of January 2018, 50 øre is around 8 US cents.\n"}
{"id": "10802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10802", "title": "Film noir", "text": "Film noir\n\nFilm noir (; ) is a cinematic term used primarily to describe stylish Hollywood crime dramas, particularly those that emphasize cynical attitudes and sexual motivations. Hollywood's classical film noir period is generally regarded as extending from the early 1940s to the late 1950s. Film noir of this era is associated with a low-key, black-and-white visual style that has roots in German Expressionist cinematography. Many of the prototypical stories and much of the attitude of classic noir derive from the hardboiled school of crime fiction that emerged in the United States during the Great Depression.\n\nThe term \"film noir\", French for \"black film\" (literal) or \"dark film\" (closer meaning), was first applied to Hollywood films by French critic Nino Frank in 1946, but was unrecognized by most American film industry professionals of that era. Cinema historians and critics defined the category retrospectively. Before the notion was widely adopted in the 1970s, many of the classic film noirs were referred to as \"melodramas\". Whether film noir qualifies as a distinct genre is a matter of ongoing debate among scholars.\n\nFilm noir encompasses a range of plots: the central figure may be a private investigator (\"The Big Sleep\"), a plainclothes policeman (\"The Big Heat\"), an aging boxer (\"The Set-Up\"), a hapless grifter (\"Night and the City\"), a law-abiding citizen lured into a life of crime (\"Gun Crazy\"), or simply a victim of circumstance (\"D.O.A.\"). Although film noir was originally associated with American productions, the term has been used to describe films from around the world. Many films released from the 1960s onward share attributes with film noirs of the classical period, and often treat its conventions self-referentially. Some refer to such latter-day works as neo-noir. The clichés of film noir have inspired parody since the mid-1940s.\n\nThe questions of what defines film noir, and what sort of category it is, provoke continuing debate. \"We'd be oversimplifying things in calling film noir oneiric, strange, erotic, ambivalent, and cruel ...\"—this set of attributes constitutes the first of many attempts to define film noir made by French critics and Étienne Chaumeton in their 1955 book \"Panorama du film noir américain 1941–1953\" (\"A Panorama of American Film Noir\"), the original and seminal extended treatment of the subject. They emphasize that not every film noir embodies all five attributes in equal measure—one might be more dreamlike; another, particularly brutal. The authors' caveats and repeated efforts at alternative definition have been echoed in subsequent scholarship: in the more than five decades since, there have been innumerable further attempts at definition, yet in the words of cinema historian Mark Bould, film noir remains an \"elusive phenomenon ... always just out of reach\".\n\nThough film noir is often identified with a visual style, unconventional within a Hollywood context, that emphasizes low-key lighting and unbalanced compositions, films commonly identified as noir evidence a variety of visual approaches, including ones that fit comfortably within the Hollywood mainstream. Film noir similarly embraces a variety of genres, from the gangster film to the police procedural to the gothic romance to the social problem picture—any example of which from the 1940s and 1950s, now seen as noir's classical era, was likely to be described as a melodrama at the time.\n\nWhile many critics refer to film noir as a genre itself, others argue that it can be no such thing. Film noir is often associated with an urban setting, but many classic noirs take place in small towns, suburbia, rural areas, or on the open road; setting, therefore, cannot be its genre determinant, as with the Western. Similarly, while the private eye and the femme fatale are character types conventionally identified with noir, the majority of film noirs feature neither; so there is no character basis for genre designation as with the gangster film. Nor does film noir rely on anything as evident as the monstrous or supernatural elements of the horror film, the speculative leaps of the science fiction film, or the song-and-dance routines of the musical.\n\nAn analogous case is that of the screwball comedy, widely accepted by film historians as constituting a \"genre\": the screwball is defined not by a fundamental attribute, but by a general disposition and a group of elements, some—but rarely and perhaps never all—of which are found in each of the genre's films. Because of the diversity of noir (much greater than that of the screwball comedy), certain scholars in the field, such as film historian Thomas Schatz, treat it as not a genre but a \"style\". Alain Silver, the most widely published American critic specializing in film noir studies, refers to film noir as a \"cycle\" and a \"phenomenon\", even as he argues that it has—like certain genres—a consistent set of visual and thematic codes. Other critics treat film noir as a \"mood\", characterize it as a \"series\", or simply address a chosen set of films they regard as belonging to the noir \"canon\". There is no consensus on the matter.\n\nThe aesthetics of film noir are influenced by German Expressionism, an artistic movement of the 1910s and 1920s that involved theater, photography, painting, sculpture and architecture, as well as cinema. The opportunities offered by the booming Hollywood film industry and then the threat of Nazism, led to the emigration of many film artists working in Germany who had been involved in the Expressionist movement or studied with its practitioners. \"M\" (1931), shot only a few years before director Fritz Lang's departure from Germany, is among the first crime films of the sound era to join a characteristically noirish visual style with a noir-type plot, in which the protagonist is a criminal (as are his most successful pursuers). Directors such as Lang, Robert Siodmak and Michael Curtiz brought a dramatically shadowed lighting style and a psychologically expressive approach to visual composition (\"mise-en-scène\"), with them to Hollywood, where they made some of the most famous classic noirs.\n\nBy 1931, Curtiz had already been in Hollywood for half a decade, making as many as six films a year. Movies of his such as \"20,000 Years in Sing Sing\" (1932) and \"Private Detective 62\" (1933) are among the early Hollywood sound films arguably classifiable as noir—scholar Marc Vernet offers the latter as evidence that dating the initiation of film noir to 1940 or any other year is \"arbitrary\". Expressionism-orientated filmmakers had free stylistic rein in Universal horror pictures such as \"Dracula\" (1931), \"The Mummy\" (1932)—the former photographed and the latter directed by the Berlin-trained Karl Freund—and \"The Black Cat\" (1934), directed by Austrian émigré Edgar G. Ulmer. The Universal horror film that comes closest to noir, in story and sensibility is \"The Invisible Man\" (1933), directed by Englishman James Whale and photographed by American Arthur Edeson. Edeson later photographed \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941), widely regarded as the first major film noir of the classic era.\n\nJosef von Sternberg was directing in Hollywood during the same period. Films of his such as \"Shanghai Express\" (1932) and \"The Devil Is a Woman\" (1935), with their hothouse eroticism and baroque visual style, anticipated central elements of classic noir. The commercial and critical success of Sternberg's silent \"Underworld\" (1927) was largely responsible for spurring a trend of Hollywood gangster films. Successful films in that genre such as \"Little Caesar\" (1931), \"The Public Enemy\" (1931) and \"Scarface\" (1932) demonstrated that there was an audience for crime dramas with morally reprehensible protagonists. An important, possibly influential, cinematic antecedent to classic noir was 1930s French poetic realism, with its romantic, fatalistic attitude and celebration of doomed heroes. The movement's sensibility is mirrored in the Warner Bros. drama \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\" (1932), a forerunner of noir. Among films not considered film noirs, perhaps none had a greater effect on the development of the genre than \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), directed by Orson Welles. Its visual intricacy and complex, voiceover narrative structure are echoed in dozens of classic film noirs.\n\nItalian neorealism of the 1940s, with its emphasis on quasi-documentary authenticity, was an acknowledged influence on trends that emerged in American noir. \"The Lost Weekend\" (1945), directed by Billy Wilder, another Vienna-born, Berlin-trained American auteur, tells the story of an alcoholic in a manner evocative of neorealism. It also exemplifies the problem of classification: one of the first American films to be described as a film noir, it has largely disappeared from considerations of the field. Director Jules Dassin of \"The Naked City\" (1948) pointed to the neorealists as inspiring his use of location photography with non-professional extras. This semidocumentary approach characterized a substantial number of noirs in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Along with neorealism, the style had an American precedent cited by Dassin, in director Henry Hathaway's \"The House on 92nd Street\" (1945), which demonstrated the parallel influence of the cinematic newsreel.\n\nThe primary literary influence on film noir was the hardboiled school of American detective and crime fiction, led in its early years by such writers as Dashiell Hammett (whose first novel, \"Red Harvest\", was published in 1929) and James M. Cain (whose \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\" appeared five years later), and popularized in pulp magazines such as \"Black Mask\". The classic film noirs \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941) and \"The Glass Key\" (1942) were based on novels by Hammett; Cain's novels provided the basis for \"Double Indemnity\" (1944), \"Mildred Pierce\" (1945), \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\" (1946), and \"Slightly Scarlet\" (1956; adapted from \"Love's Lovely Counterfeit\"). A decade before the classic era, a story by Hammett was the source for the gangster melodrama \"City Streets\" (1931), directed by Rouben Mamoulian and photographed by Lee Garmes, who worked regularly with Sternberg. Released the month before Lang's \"M\", \"City Streets\" has a claim to being the first major film noir; both its style and story had many noir characteristics.\n\nRaymond Chandler, who debuted as a novelist with \"The Big Sleep\" in 1939, soon became the most famous author of the hardboiled school. Not only were Chandler's novels turned into major noirs—\"Murder, My Sweet\" (1944; adapted from \"Farewell, My Lovely\"), \"The Big Sleep\" (1946), and \"Lady in the Lake\" (1947)—he was an important screenwriter in the genre as well, producing the scripts for \"Double Indemnity\", \"The Blue Dahlia\" (1946), and \"Strangers on a Train\" (1951). Where Chandler, like Hammett, centered most of his novels and stories on the character of the private eye, Cain featured less heroic protagonists and focused more on psychological exposition than on crime solving; the Cain approach has come to be identified with a subset of the hardboiled genre dubbed \"noir fiction\". For much of the 1940s, one of the most prolific and successful authors of this often downbeat brand of suspense tale was Cornell Woolrich (sometimes under the pseudonym George Hopley or William Irish). No writer's published work provided the basis for more film noirs of the classic period than Woolrich's: thirteen in all, including \"Black Angel\" (1946), \"Deadline at Dawn\" (1946), and \"Fear in the Night\" (1947).\n\nAnother crucial literary source for film noir was W. R. Burnett, whose first novel to be published was \"Little Caesar\", in 1929. It was turned into a hit for Warner Bros. in 1931; the following year, Burnett was hired to write dialogue for \"Scarface\", while \"The Beast of the City\" (1932) was adapted from one of his stories. At least one important reference work identifies the latter as a film noir despite its early date. Burnett's characteristic narrative approach fell somewhere between that of the quintessential hardboiled writers and their noir fiction compatriots—his protagonists were often heroic in their own way, which happened to be that of the gangster. During the classic era, his work, either as author or screenwriter, was the basis for seven films now widely regarded as film noirs, including three of the most famous: \"High Sierra\" (1941), \"This Gun for Hire\" (1942), and \"The Asphalt Jungle\" (1950).\n\nThe 1940s and 1950s are generally regarded as the \"classic period\" of American \"film noir\". While \"City Streets\" and other pre-WWII crime melodramas such as \"Fury\" (1936) and \"You Only Live Once\" (1937), both directed by Fritz Lang, are categorized as full-fledged \"noir\" in Alain Silver and Elizabeth Ward's \"film noir\" encyclopedia, other critics tend to describe them as \"proto-noir\" or in similar terms.\n\nThe film now most commonly cited as the first \"true\" \"film noir\" is \"Stranger on the Third Floor\" (1940), directed by Latvian-born, Soviet-trained Boris Ingster. Hungarian émigré Peter Lorre—who had starred in Lang's \"M\"—was top-billed, although he did not play the primary lead. He later played secondary roles in several other formative American noirs. Although modestly budgeted, at the high end of the B movie scale, \"Stranger on the Third Floor\" still lost its studio, RKO, US$56,000 (), almost a third of its total cost. \"Variety\" magazine found Ingster's work: \"...too studied and when original, lacks the flare to hold attention. It's a film too arty for average audiences, and too humdrum for others.\" \"Stranger on the Third Floor\" was not recognized as the beginning of a trend, let alone a new genre, for many decades.\nMost film noirs of the classic period were similarly low- and modestly-budgeted features without major stars—B movies either literally or in spirit. In this production context, writers, directors, cinematographers, and other craftsmen were relatively free from typical big-picture constraints. There was more visual experimentation than in Hollywood filmmaking as a whole: the Expressionism now closely associated with noir and the semi-documentary style that later emerged represent two very different tendencies. Narrative structures sometimes involved convoluted flashbacks uncommon in non-noir commercial productions. In terms of content, enforcement of the Production Code ensured that no film character could literally get away with murder or be seen sharing a bed with anyone but a spouse; within those bounds, however, many films now identified as noir feature plot elements and dialogue that were very risqué for the time.\nThematically, film noirs were most exceptional for the relative frequency with which they centered on women of questionable virtue—a focus that had become rare in Hollywood films after the mid-1930s and the end of the pre-Code era. The signal film in this vein was \"Double Indemnity\", directed by Billy Wilder; setting the mold was Barbara Stanwyck's unforgettable femme fatale, Phyllis Dietrichson—an apparent nod to Marlene Dietrich, who had built her extraordinary career playing such characters for Sternberg. An A-level feature all the way, the film's commercial success and seven Oscar nominations made it probably the most influential of the early noirs. A slew of now-renowned noir \"bad girls\" followed, such as those played by Rita Hayworth in \"Gilda\" (1946), Lana Turner in \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\" (1946), Ava Gardner in \"The Killers\" (1946), and Jane Greer in \"Out of the Past\" (1947). The iconic noir counterpart to the femme fatale, the private eye, came to the fore in films such as \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941), with Humphrey Bogart as Sam Spade, and \"Murder, My Sweet\" (1944), with Dick Powell as Philip Marlowe.\n\nThe prevalence of the private eye as a lead character declined in film noir of the 1950s, a period during which several critics describe the form as becoming more focused on extreme psychologies and more exaggerated in general. A prime example is \"Kiss Me Deadly\" (1955); based on a novel by Mickey Spillane, the best-selling of all the hardboiled authors, here the protagonist is a private eye, Mike Hammer. As described by Paul Schrader, \"Robert Aldrich's teasing direction carries \"noir\" to its sleaziest and most perversely erotic. Hammer overturns the underworld in search of the 'great whatsit' [which] turns out to be—joke of jokes—an exploding atomic bomb.\" Orson Welles's baroquely styled \"Touch of Evil\" (1958) is frequently cited as the last noir of the classic period. Some scholars believe film noir never really ended, but continued to transform even as the characteristic noir visual style began to seem dated and changing production conditions led Hollywood in different directions—in this view, post-1950s films in the noir tradition are seen as part of a continuity with classic noir. A majority of critics, however, regard comparable films made outside the classic era to be something other than genuine film noirs. They regard true film noir as belonging to a temporally and geographically limited cycle or period, treating subsequent films that evoke the classics as fundamentally different due to general shifts in filmmaking style and latter-day awareness of noir as a historical source for allusion.\n\nWhile the inceptive noir, \"Stranger on the Third Floor\", was a B picture directed by a virtual unknown, many of the film noirs still remembered were A-list productions by well-known film makers. Debuting as a director with \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941), John Huston followed with \"Key Largo\" (1948) and \"The Asphalt Jungle\" (1950). Opinion is divided on the noir status of several Alfred Hitchcock thrillers from the era; at least four qualify by consensus: \"Shadow of a Doubt\" (1943), \"Notorious\" (1946), \"Strangers on a Train\" (1951) and \"The Wrong Man\" (1956). Otto Preminger's success with \"Laura\" (1944) made his name and helped demonstrate noir's adaptability to a high-gloss 20th Century-Fox presentation. Among Hollywood's most celebrated directors of the era, arguably none worked more often in a noir mode than Preminger; his other noirs include \"Fallen Angel\" (1945), \"Whirlpool\" (1949), \"Where the Sidewalk Ends\" (1950) (all for Fox) and \"Angel Face\" (1952). A half-decade after \"Double Indemnity\" and \"The Lost Weekend\", Billy Wilder made \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950) and \"Ace in the Hole\" (1951), noirs that were not so much crime dramas as satires on Hollywood and the news media. \"In a Lonely Place\" (1950) was Nicholas Ray's breakthrough; his other noirs include his debut, \"They Live by Night\" (1948) and \"On Dangerous Ground\" (1952), noted for their unusually sympathetic treatment of characters alienated from the social mainstream.\nOrson Welles had notorious problems with financing but his three film noirs were well budgeted: \"The Lady from Shanghai\" (1947) received top-level, \"prestige\" backing, while \"The Stranger\", his most conventional film and \"Touch of Evil\", an unmistakably personal work, were funded at levels lower but still commensurate with headlining releases. Like \"The Stranger\", Fritz Lang's \"The Woman in the Window\" (1945) was a production of the independent International Pictures. Lang's follow-up, \"Scarlet Street\" (1945), was one of the few classic noirs to be officially censored: filled with erotic innuendo, it was temporarily banned in Milwaukee, Atlanta and New York State. \"Scarlet Street\" was a semi-independent, cosponsored by Universal and Lang's Diana Productions, of which the film's co-star, Joan Bennett, was the second biggest shareholder. Lang, Bennett and her husband, the Universal veteran and Diana production head Walter Wanger, made \"Secret Beyond the Door\" (1948) in similar fashion.\n\nBefore leaving the United States while subject to the Hollywood Blacklist, Jules Dassin made two classic noirs that also straddled the major–independent line: \"Brute Force\" (1947) and the influential documentary-style \"The Naked City\" were developed by producer Mark Hellinger, who had an \"inside/outside\" contract with Universal similar to Wanger's. Years earlier, working at Warner Bros., Hellinger had produced three films for Raoul Walsh, the proto-noirs \"They Drive by Night\" (1940), \"Manpower\" (1941) and \"High Sierra\" (1941), now regarded as a seminal work in noir's development. Walsh had no great name during his half-century as a director but his noirs \"White Heat\" (1949) and \"The Enforcer\" (1951) had A-list stars and are seen as important examples of the cycle. Other directors associated with top-of-the-bill Hollywood film noirs include Edward Dmytryk (\"Murder, My Sweet\" [1944], \"Crossfire\" [1947])—the first important noir director to fall prey to the industry blacklist—as well as Henry Hathaway (\"The Dark Corner\" [1946], \"Kiss of Death\" [1947]) and John Farrow (\"The Big Clock\" [1948], \"Night Has a Thousand Eyes\" [1948]).\n\nMost of the Hollywood films considered to be classic noirs fall into the category of the \"B movie\". Some were Bs in the most precise sense, produced to run on the bottom of double bills by a low-budget unit of one of the major studios or by one of the smaller Poverty Row outfits, from the relatively well-off Monogram to shakier ventures such as Producers Releasing Corporation (PRC). Jacques Tourneur had made over thirty Hollywood Bs (a few now highly regarded, most forgotten) before directing the A-level \"Out of the Past\", described by scholar Robert Ottoson as \"the \"ne plus ultra\" of forties film noir\". Movies with budgets a step up the ladder, known as \"intermediates\" by the industry, might be treated as A or B pictures depending on the circumstances. Monogram created Allied Artists in the late 1940s to focus on this sort of production. Robert Wise (\"Born to Kill\" [1947], \"The Set-Up\" [1949]) and Anthony Mann (\"T-Men\" [1947] and \"Raw Deal\" [1948]) each made a series of impressive intermediates, many of them noirs, before graduating to steady work on big-budget productions. Mann did some of his most celebrated work with cinematographer John Alton, a specialist in what James Naremore called \"hypnotic moments of light-in-darkness\". \"He Walked by Night\" (1948), shot by Alton and though credited solely to Alfred Werker, directed in large part by Mann, demonstrates their technical mastery and exemplifies the late 1940s trend of \"police procedural\" crime dramas. It was released, like other Mann-Alton noirs, by the small Eagle-Lion company; it was the inspiration for the \"Dragnet\" series, which debuted on radio in 1949 and television in 1951.\n\nSeveral directors associated with noir built well-respected oeuvres largely at the B-movie/intermediate level. Samuel Fuller's brutal, visually energetic films such as \"Pickup on South Street\" (1953) and \"Underworld U.S.A.\" (1961) earned him a unique reputation; his advocates praise him as \"primitive\" and \"barbarous\". Joseph H. Lewis directed noirs as diverse as \"Gun Crazy\" (1950) and \"The Big Combo\" (1955). The former—whose screenplay was written by the blacklisted Dalton Trumbo, disguised by a front—features a bank hold-up sequence shown in an unbroken take of over three minutes that was influential. \"The Big Combo\" was shot by John Alton and took the shadowy noir style to its outer limits. The most distinctive films of Phil Karlson (\"The Phenix City Story\" [1955] and \"The Brothers Rico\" [1957]) tell stories of vice organized on a monstrous scale. The work of other directors in this tier of the industry, such as Felix E. Feist (\"The Devil Thumbs a Ride\" [1947], \"Tomorrow Is Another Day\" [1951]), has become obscure. Edgar G. Ulmer spent most of his Hollywood career working at B studios and once in a while on projects that achieved intermediate status; for the most part, on unmistakable Bs. In 1945, while at PRC, he directed a noir cult classic, \"Detour\". Ulmer's other noirs include \"Strange Illusion\" (1945), also for PRC; \"Ruthless\" (1948), for Eagle-Lion, which had acquired PRC the previous year and \"Murder Is My Beat\" (1955), for Allied Artists.\n\nA number of low- and modestly-budgeted noirs were made by independent, often actor-owned, companies contracting with larger studios for distribution. Serving as producer, writer, director and top-billed performer, Hugo Haas made films like \"Pickup\" (1951) and \"The Other Woman\" (1954). It was in this way that accomplished noir actress Ida Lupino established herself as the sole female director in Hollywood during the late 1940s and much of the 1950s. She does not appear in the best-known film she directed, \"The Hitch-Hiker\" (1953), developed by her company, The Filmakers, with support and distribution by RKO. It is one of the seven classic film noirs produced largely outside of the major studios that have been chosen for the United States National Film Registry. Of the others, one was a small-studio release: \"Detour\". Four were independent productions distributed by United Artists, the \"studio without a studio\": \"Gun Crazy\"; \"Kiss Me Deadly\"; \"D.O.A.\" (1950), directed by Rudolph Maté and \"Sweet Smell of Success\" (1957), directed by Alexander Mackendrick. One was an independent distributed by MGM, the industry leader: \"Force of Evil\" (1948), directed by Abraham Polonsky and starring John Garfield, both of whom were blacklisted in the 1950s. Independent production usually meant restricted circumstances but \"Sweet Smell of Success\", despite the plans of the production team, was clearly not made on the cheap, though like many other cherished A-budget noirs, it might be said to have a B-movie soul.\n\nPerhaps no director better displayed that spirit than the German-born Robert Siodmak, who had already made a score of films before his 1940 arrival in Hollywood. Working mostly on A features, he made eight films now regarded as classic-era film noirs (a figure matched only by Lang and Mann). In addition to \"The Killers\", Burt Lancaster's debut and a Hellinger/Universal co-production, Siodmak's other important contributions to the genre include 1944's \"Phantom Lady\" (a top-of-the-line B and Woolrich adaptation), the ironically titled \"Christmas Holiday\" (1944), and \"Cry of the City\" (1948). \"Criss Cross\" (1949), with Lancaster again the lead, exemplifies how Siodmak brought the virtues of the B-movie to the A noir. In addition to the relatively looser constraints on character and message at lower budgets, the nature of B production lent itself to the noir style for economic reasons: dim lighting saved on electricity and helped cloak cheap sets (mist and smoke also served the cause); night shooting was often compelled by hurried production schedules; plots with obscure motivations and intriguingly elliptical transitions were sometimes the consequence of hastily written scripts, of which there was not always enough time or money to shoot every scene. In \"Criss Cross\", Siodmak achieved these effects with purpose, wrapping them around Yvonne De Carlo, playing the most understandable of femme fatales; Dan Duryea, in one of his many charismatic villain roles; and Lancaster as an ordinary laborer turned armed robber, doomed by a romantic obsession.\n\nSome critics regard classic film noir as a cycle exclusive to the United States; Alain Silver and Elizabeth Ward, for example, argue, \"With the Western, film noir shares the distinction of being an indigenous American form ... a wholly American film style.\" However, although the term \"film noir\" was originally coined to describe Hollywood movies, it was an international phenomenon. Even before the beginning of the generally accepted classic period, there were films made far from Hollywood that can be seen in retrospect as film noirs, for example, the French productions \"Pépé le Moko\" (1937), directed by Julien Duvivier, and \"Le Jour se lève\" (1939), directed by Marcel Carné. In addition, Mexico experienced a vibrant film noir period from roughly 1946 to 1952, which was around the same time film noir was blossoming in the United States.\n\nDuring the classic period, there were many films produced in Europe, particularly in France, that share elements of style, theme, and sensibility with American film noirs and may themselves be included in the genre's canon. In certain cases, the interrelationship with Hollywood noir is obvious: American-born director Jules Dassin moved to France in the early 1950s as a result of the Hollywood blacklist, and made one of the most famous French film noirs, \"Rififi\" (1955). Other well-known French films often classified as noir include \"Quai des Orfèvres\" (1947) and \"Les Diaboliques\" (1955), both directed by Henri-Georges Clouzot. \"Casque d'Or\" (1952), \"Touchez pas au grisbi\" (1954), and Le Trou (1960) directed by Jacques Becker; and \"Ascenseur pour l'échafaud\" (1958), directed by Louis Malle. French director Jean-Pierre Melville is widely recognized for his tragic, minimalist film noirs—\"Bob le flambeur\" (1955), from the classic period, was followed by \"Le Doulos\" (1962), \"Le deuxième souffle\" (1966), \"Le Samouraï\" (1967), and \"Le Cercle rouge\" (1970).\n\nScholar Andrew Spicer argues that British film noir evidences a greater debt to French poetic realism than to the expressionistic American mode of noir. Examples of British noir from the classic period include \"Brighton Rock\" (1947), directed by John Boulting; \"They Made Me a Fugitive\" (1947), directed by Alberto Cavalcanti; \"The Small Back Room\" (1948), directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger; \"The October Man\" (1950), directed by Roy Ward Baker; and \"Cast a Dark Shadow\" (1955), directed by Lewis Gilbert. Terence Fisher directed several low-budget thrillers in a noir mode for Hammer Film Productions, including \"The Last Page\" (a.k.a. \"Man Bait\"; 1952), \"Stolen Face\" (1952), and \"Murder by Proxy\" (a.k.a. \"Blackout\"; 1954). Before leaving for France, Jules Dassin had been obliged by political pressure to shoot his last English-language film of the classic noir period in Great Britain: \"Night and the City\" (1950). Though it was conceived in the United States and was not only directed by an American but also stars two American actors—Richard Widmark and Gene Tierney—it is technically a UK production, financed by 20th Century-Fox's British subsidiary. The most famous of classic British noirs is director Carol Reed's \"The Third Man\" (1949), from a screenplay by Graham Greene. Set in Vienna immediately after World War II, it also stars two American actors, Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles, who had appeared together in \"Citizen Kane\".\n\nElsewhere, Italian director Luchino Visconti adapted Cain's \"The Postman Always Rings Twice\" as \"Ossessione\" (1943), regarded both as one of the great noirs and a seminal film in the development of neorealism. (This was not even the first screen version of Cain's novel, having been preceded by the French \"Le Dernier Tournant\" in 1939.) In Japan, the celebrated Akira Kurosawa directed several films recognizable as film noirs, including \"Drunken Angel\" (1948), \"Stray Dog\" (1949), \"The Bad Sleep Well\" (1960), and \"High and Low\" (1963).\n\nAmong the first major neo-noir films—the term often applied to films that consciously refer back to the classic noir tradition—was the French \"Tirez sur le pianiste\" (1960), directed by François Truffaut from a novel by one of the gloomiest of American noir fiction writers, David Goodis. Noir crime films and melodramas have been produced in many countries in the post-classic area. Some of these are quintessentially self-aware neo-noirs—for example, \"Il Conformista\" (1969; Italy), \"Der Amerikanische Freund\" (1977; Germany), \"The Element of Crime\" (1984; Denmark), and \"El Aura\" (2005; Argentina). Others simply share narrative elements and a version of the hardboiled sensibility associated with classic noir, such as \"The Castle of Sand\" (1974; Japan), \"Insomnia\" (1997; Norway), \"Croupier\" (1998; UK), and \"Blind Shaft\" (2003; China).\n\nThe neo-noir film genre developed mid-way into the Cold War. This cinematological trend reflected much of the cynicism and the possibility of nuclear annihilation of the era. This new genre introduced innovations that were not available with the earlier noir films. The violence was also more potent.\n\nWhile it is hard to draw a line between some of the noir films of the early 1960s such as \"Blast of Silence\" (1961) and \"Cape Fear\" (1962) and the noirs of the late 1950s, new trends emerged in the post-classic era. \"The Manchurian Candidate\" (1962), directed by John Frankenheimer, \"Shock Corridor\" (1962), directed by Samuel Fuller, and \"Brainstorm\" (1965), directed by experienced noir character actor William Conrad, all treat the theme of mental dispossession within stylistic and tonal frameworks derived from classic film noir. \"The Manchurian Candidate\" examined the situation of American prisoners of war (POWs) during the Korean War. Incidents that occurred during the war as well as those post-war, functioned as an inspiration for a \"Cold War Noir\" subgenre. The television series \"The Fugitive\" (1963–67) brought classic noir themes and mood to the small screen for an extended run.\nIn a different vein, films began to appear that self-consciously acknowledged the conventions of classic film noir as historical archetypes to be revived, rejected, or reimagined. These efforts typify what came to be known as neo-noir. Though several late classic noirs, \"Kiss Me Deadly\" in particular, were deeply self-knowing and post-traditional in conception, none tipped its hand so evidently as to be remarked on by American critics at the time. The first major film to overtly work this angle was French director Jean-Luc Godard's \"À bout de souffle\" (\"Breathless\"; 1960), which pays its literal respects to Bogart and his crime films while brandishing a bold new style for a new day. In the United States, Arthur Penn (\"Mickey One\" [1964], drawing inspiration from Truffaut's \"Tirez sur le pianiste\" and other French New Wave films), John Boorman (\"Point Blank\" [1967], similarly caught up, though in the \"Nouvelle vague'\"s deeper waters), and Alan J. Pakula (\"Klute\" [1971]) directed films that knowingly related themselves to the original film noirs, inviting audiences in on the game.\n\nA manifest affiliation with noir traditions—which, by its nature, allows different sorts of commentary on them to be inferred—can also provide the basis for explicit critiques of those traditions. In 1973, director Robert Altman flipped off noir piety with \"The Long Goodbye\". Based on the novel by Raymond Chandler, it features one of Bogart's most famous characters, but in iconoclastic fashion: Philip Marlowe, the prototypical hardboiled detective, is replayed as a hapless misfit, almost laughably out of touch with contemporary mores and morality. Where Altman's subversion of the film noir mythos was so irreverent as to outrage some contemporary critics, around the same time Woody Allen was paying affectionate, at points idolatrous homage to the classic mode with \"Play It Again, Sam\" (1972). The \"blaxploitation\" film \"Shaft\" (1971), wherein Richard Roundtree plays the titular African-American private eye, John Shaft, takes conventions from classic noir.\n\nThe most acclaimed of the neo-noirs of the era was director Roman Polanski's 1974 \"Chinatown\". Written by Robert Towne, it is set in 1930s Los Angeles, an accustomed noir locale nudged back some few years in a way that makes the pivotal loss of innocence in the story even crueler. Where Polanski and Towne raised noir to a black apogee by turning rearward, director Martin Scorsese and screenwriter Paul Schrader brought the noir attitude crashing into the present day with \"Taxi Driver\" (1976), a crackling, bloody-minded gloss on bicentennial America. In 1978, Walter Hill wrote and directed \"The Driver\", a chase film as might have been imagined by Jean-Pierre Melville in an especially abstract mood.\n\nHill was already a central figure in 1970s noir of a more straightforward manner, having written the script for director Sam Peckinpah's \"The Getaway\" (1972), adapting a novel by pulp master Jim Thompson, as well as for two tough private eye films: an original screenplay for \"Hickey & Boggs\" (1972) and an adaptation of a novel by Ross Macdonald, the leading literary descendant of Hammett and Chandler, for \"The Drowning Pool\" (1975). Some of the strongest 1970s noirs, in fact, were unwinking remakes of the classics, \"neo\" mostly by default: the heartbreaking \"Thieves Like Us\" (1973), directed by Altman from the same source as Ray's \"They Live by Night\", and \"Farewell, My Lovely\" (1975), the Chandler tale made classically as \"Murder, My Sweet\", remade here with Robert Mitchum in his last notable noir role. Detective series, prevalent on American television during the period, updated the hardboiled tradition in different ways, but the show conjuring the most noir tone was a horror crossover touched with shaggy, \"Long Goodbye\"–style humor: \"\" (1974–75), featuring a Chicago newspaper reporter investigating strange, usually supernatural occurrences.\n\nThe turn of the decade brought Scorsese's black-and-white \"Raging Bull\" (cowritten by Schrader); an acknowledged masterpiece—the American Film Institute ranks it as the greatest American film of the 1980s and the fourth greatest of all time—it is also a retreat, telling a story of a boxer's moral self-destruction that recalls in both theme and visual ambience noir dramas such as \"Body and Soul\" (1947) and \"Champion\" (1949). From 1981, the popular \"Body Heat\", written and directed by Lawrence Kasdan, invokes a different set of classic noir elements, this time in a humid, erotically charged Florida setting; its success confirmed the commercial viability of neo-noir, at a time when the major Hollywood studios were becoming increasingly risk averse. The mainstreaming of neo-noir is evident in such films as \"Black Widow\" (1987), \"Shattered\" (1991), and \"Final Analysis\" (1992). Few neo-noirs have made more money or more wittily updated the tradition of the noir double-entendre than \"Basic Instinct\" (1992), directed by Paul Verhoeven and written by Joe Eszterhas. The film also demonstrates how neo-noir's polychrome palette can reproduce many of the expressionistic effects of classic black-and-white noir.\n\nAmong big-budget auteurs, Michael Mann has worked frequently in a neo-noir mode, with such films as \"Thief\" (1981) and \"Heat\" (1995) and the TV series \"Miami Vice\" (1984–89) and \"Crime Story\" (1986–88). Mann's output exemplifies a primary strain of neo-noir, in which classic themes and tropes are revisited in a contemporary setting with an up-to-date visual style and rock- or hip hop-based musical soundtrack. Like \"Chinatown\", its more complex predecessor, Curtis Hanson's Oscar-winning \"L.A. Confidential\" (1997), based on the James Ellroy novel, demonstrates an opposite tendency—the deliberately retro film noir; its tale of corrupt cops and femmes fatales is seemingly lifted straight from a film of 1953, the year in which it is set. Director David Fincher followed the immensely successful neo-noir \"Seven\" (1995) with a film that developed into a cult favorite after its original, disappointing release: \"Fight Club\" (1999) is a \"sui generis\" mix of noir aesthetic, perverse comedy, speculative content, and satiric intent.\n\nWorking generally with much smaller budgets, brothers Joel and Ethan Coen have created one of the most extensive film oeuvres influenced by classic noir, with films such as \"Blood Simple\" (1984) and \"Fargo\" (1996), considered by some a supreme work in the neo-noir mode. The Coens cross noir with other generic lines in the gangster drama \"Miller's Crossing\" (1990)—loosely based on the Dashiell Hammett novels \"Red Harvest\" and \"The Glass Key\"—and the comedy \"The Big Lebowski\" (1998), a tribute to Chandler and an homage to Altman's version of \"The Long Goodbye\". The characteristic work of David Lynch combines film noir tropes with scenarios driven by disturbed characters such as the sociopathic criminal played by Dennis Hopper in \"Blue Velvet\" (1986) and the delusionary protagonist of \"Lost Highway\" (1997). The \"Twin Peaks\" cycle, both TV series (1990–91) and film, \"\" (1992), puts a detective plot through a succession of bizarre spasms. David Cronenberg also mixes surrealism and noir in \"Naked Lunch\" (1991), inspired by William S. Burroughs' novel.\n\nPerhaps no American neo-noirs better reflect the classic noir A-movie-with-a-B-movie-soul than those of director-writer Quentin Tarantino; neo-noirs of his such as \"Reservoir Dogs\" (1992) and \"Pulp Fiction\" (1994) display a relentlessly self-reflexive, sometimes tongue-in-cheek sensibility, similar to the work of the New Wave directors and the Coens. Other films from the era readily identifiable as neo-noir (some retro, some more au courant) include director John Dahl's \"Kill Me Again\" (1989), \"Red Rock West\" (1992), and \"The Last Seduction\" (1993); four adaptations of novels by Jim Thompson—\"The Kill-Off\" (1989), \"After Dark, My Sweet\" (1990), \"The Grifters\" (1990), and the remake of \"The Getaway\" (1994); and many more, including adaptations of the work of other major noir fiction writers: \"The Hot Spot\" (1990), from \"Hell Hath No Fury\", by Charles Williams; \"Miami Blues\" (1990), from the novel by Charles Willeford; and \"Out of Sight\" (1998), from the novel by Elmore Leonard. Several films by director-writer David Mamet involve noir elements: \"House of Games\" (1987), \"Homicide\" (1991), \"The Spanish Prisoner\" (1997), and \"Heist\" (2001). On television, \"Moonlighting\" (1985–89) paid homage to classic noir while demonstrating an unusual appreciation of the sense of humor often found in the original cycle. Between 1983 and 1989, Mickey Spillane's hardboiled private eye Mike Hammer was played with wry gusto by Stacy Keach in a series and several stand-alone television films (an unsuccessful revival followed in 1997–98). The British miniseries \"The Singing Detective\" (1986), written by Dennis Potter, tells the story of a mystery writer named Philip Marlow; widely considered one of the finest neo-noirs in any medium, some critics rank it among the greatest television productions of all time.\n\nThe Coen brothers make reference to the noir tradition again with \"The Man Who Wasn't There\" (2001); a black-and-white crime melodrama set in 1949, it features a scene apparently staged to mirror one from \"Out of the Past\". Lynch's \"Mulholland Drive\" (2001) continued in his characteristic vein, making the classic noir setting of Los Angeles the venue for a noir-inflected psychological jigsaw puzzle. British-born director Christopher Nolan's black-and-white debut, \"Following\" (1998), was an overt homage to classic noir. During the new century's first decade, he was one of the leading Hollywood directors of neo-noir with the acclaimed \"Memento\" (2000) and the remake of \"Insomnia\" (2002).\n\nDirector Sean Penn's \"The Pledge\" (2001), though adapted from a very self-reflexive novel by Friedrich Dürrenmatt, plays noir comparatively straight, to devastating effect. Screenwriter David Ayer updated the classic noir bad-cop tale, typified by \"Shield for Murder\" (1954) and \"Rogue Cop\" (1954), with his scripts for \"Training Day\" (2001) and, adapting a story by James Ellroy, \"Dark Blue\" (2002); he later wrote and directed the even darker \"Harsh Times\" (2006). Michael Mann's \"Collateral\" (2004) features a performance by Tom Cruise as an assassin in the lineage of \"Le Samouraï\". The torments of \"The Machinist\" (2004), directed by Brad Anderson, evoke both \"Fight Club\" and \"Memento\". In 2005, Shane Black directed \"Kiss Kiss Bang Bang\", basing his screenplay in part on a crime novel by Brett Halliday, who published his first stories back in the 1920s. The film plays with an awareness not only of classic noir but also of neo-noir reflexivity itself.\n\nWith ultra-violent films such as \"Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance\" (2002) and \"Thirst\" (2009), Park Chan-wook of South Korea has been the most prominent director outside of the United States to work regularly in a noir mode in the new millennium. The most commercially successful neo-noir of this period has been \"Sin City\" (2005), directed by Robert Rodriguez in extravagantly stylized black and white with splashes of color. The film is based on a series of comic books created by Frank Miller (credited as the film's codirector), which are in turn openly indebted to the works of Spillane and other pulp mystery authors. Similarly, graphic novels provide the basis for \"Road to Perdition\" (2002), directed by Sam Mendes, and \"A History of Violence\" (2005), directed by David Cronenberg; the latter was voted best film of the year in the annual \"Village Voice\" poll. Writer-director Rian Johnson's \"Brick\" (2005), featuring present-day high schoolers speaking a version of 1930s hardboiled argot, won the Special Jury Prize for Originality of Vision at the Sundance Film Festival. The television series \"Veronica Mars\" (2004–07) also brought a youth-oriented twist to film noir. Examples of this sort of generic crossover have been dubbed \"teen noir\".\n\nNeo-noir films released in the 2010s include Kim Jee-woon’s \"I Saw the Devil\" (2010), Fred Cavaye’s \"Point Blank\" (2010), Na Hong-jin’s \"The Yellow Sea\" (2010), Nicolas Winding Refn’s \"Drive\" (2011), and Claire Denis' \"Bastards\" (2013).\n\nIn the post-classic era, a significant trend in noir crossovers has involved science fiction. In Jean-Luc Godard's \"Alphaville\" (1965), Lemmy Caution is the name of the old-school private eye in the city of tomorrow. \"The Groundstar Conspiracy\" (1972) centers on another implacable investigator and an amnesiac named Welles. \"Soylent Green\" (1973), the first major American example, portrays a dystopian, near-future world via a self-evidently noir detection plot; starring Charlton Heston (the lead in \"Touch of Evil\"), it also features classic noir standbys Joseph Cotten, Edward G. Robinson, and Whit Bissell. The film was directed by Richard Fleischer, who two decades before had directed several strong B noirs, including \"Armored Car Robbery\" (1950) and \"The Narrow Margin\" (1952).\n\nThe cynical and stylish perspective of classic film noir had a formative effect on the cyberpunk genre of science fiction that emerged in the early 1980s; the film most directly influential on cyberpunk was \"Blade Runner\" (1982), directed by Ridley Scott, which pays evocative homage to the classic noir mode (Scott subsequently directed the poignant noir crime melodrama \"Someone to Watch Over Me\" [1987]). Scholar Jamaluddin Bin Aziz has observed how \"the shadow of Philip Marlowe lingers on\" in such other \"future noir\" films as \"12 Monkeys\" (1995), \"Dark City\" (1998) and \"Minority Report\" (2002). Fincher's feature debut was \"Alien 3\" (1992), which evoked the classic noir jail film \"Brute Force\".\n\nDavid Cronenberg's \"Crash\" (1996), an adaptation of the speculative novel by J. G. Ballard, has been described as a \"film noir in bruise tones\". The hero is the target of investigation in \"Gattaca\" (1997), which fuses film noir motifs with a scenario indebted to \"Brave New World\". \"The Thirteenth Floor\" (1999), like \"Blade Runner\", is an explicit homage to classic noir, in this case involving speculations about virtual reality. Science fiction, noir, and anime are brought together in the Japanese films \"Ghost in the Shell\" (1995) and \"\" (2004), both directed by Mamoru Oshii. \"The Animatrix\" (2003), based on and set within the world of \"The Matrix\" film trilogy, contains an anime short film in classic noir style titled \"A Detective Story\". Anime television series with science fiction noir themes include \"Noir\" (2001) and \"Cowboy Bebop\" (1998).\n\nThe 2015 film \"Ex Machina\" puts an understated film noir spin on the Frankenstein mythos, with the sentient android Ava as a potential \"femme fatale\", her creator Nathan embodying the abusive husband or father trope, and her would-be rescuer Caleb as a \"clueless drifter\" enthralled by Ava.\n\nFilm noir has been parodied many times in many manners. In 1945, Danny Kaye starred in what appears to be the first intentional film noir parody, \"Wonder Man\". That same year, Deanna Durbin was the singing lead in the comedic noir \"Lady on a Train\", which makes fun of Woolrich-brand wistful miserablism. Bob Hope inaugurated the private-eye noir parody with \"My Favorite Brunette\" (1947), playing a baby-photographer who is mistaken for an ironfisted detective. In 1947 as well, The Bowery Boys appeared in \"Hard Boiled Mahoney\", which had a similar mistaken-identity plot; they spoofed the genre once more in \"Private Eyes\" (1953). Two RKO productions starring Robert Mitchum take film noir over the border into self-parody: \"The Big Steal\" (1949), directed by Don Siegel, and \"His Kind of Woman\" (1951). The \"Girl Hunt\" ballet in Vincente Minnelli's \"The Band Wagon\" (1953) is a ten-minute distillation of—and play on—noir in dance. \"The Cheap Detective\" (1978), starring Peter Falk, is a broad spoof of several films, including the Bogart classics \"The Maltese Falcon\" and \"Casablanca\". Carl Reiner's black-and-white \"Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid\" (1982) appropriates clips of classic noirs for a farcical pastiche, while his \"Fatal Instinct\" (1993) sends up noirs both classic (\"Double Indemnity\") and neo (\"Basic Instinct\"). Robert Zemeckis's \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" (1988) develops a noir plot set in 1940s L.A. around a host of cartoon characters.\n\nNoir parodies come in darker tones as well. \"Murder by Contract\" (1958), directed by Irving Lerner, is a deadpan joke on noir, with a denouement as bleak as any of the films it kids. An ultra-low-budget Columbia Pictures production, it may qualify as the first intentional example of what is now called a neo-noir film; it was likely a source of inspiration for both Melville's \"Le Samouraï\" and Scorsese's \"Taxi Driver\". Belying its parodic strain, \"The Long Goodbye\"s final act is seriously grave. \"Taxi Driver\" caustically deconstructs the \"dark\" crime film, taking it to an absurd extreme and then offering a conclusion that manages to mock every possible anticipated ending—triumphant, tragic, artfully ambivalent—while being each, all at once. Flirting with splatter status even more brazenly, the Coens' \"Blood Simple\" is both an exacting pastiche and a gross exaggeration of classic noir. Adapted by director Robinson Devor from a novel by Charles Willeford, \"The Woman Chaser\" (1999) sends up not just the noir mode but the entire Hollywood filmmaking process, with seemingly each shot staged as the visual equivalent of an acerbic Marlowe wisecrack.\n\nIn other media, the television series \"Sledge Hammer!\" (1986–88) lampoons noir, along with such topics as capital punishment, gun fetishism, and Dirty Harry. \"Sesame Street\" (1969–curr.) occasionally casts Kermit the Frog as a private eye; the sketches refer to some of the typical motifs of noir films, in particular the voiceover. Garrison Keillor's radio program \"A Prairie Home Companion\" features the recurring character Guy Noir, a hardboiled detective whose adventures always wander into farce (Guy also appears in the Altman-directed film based on Keillor's show). Firesign Theatre's Nick Danger has trod the same not-so-mean streets, both on radio and in comedy albums. Cartoons such as \"Garfield's Babes and Bullets\" (1989) and comic strip characters such as Tracer Bullet of \"Calvin and Hobbes\" have parodied both film noir and the kindred hardboiled tradition—one of the sources from which film noir sprang and which it now overshadows.\n\nIn their original 1955 canon of film noir, Raymond Borde and Etienne Chaumeton identified twenty-two Hollywood films released between 1941 and 1952 as core examples; they listed another fifty-nine American films from the period as significantly related to the field of noir. A half-century later, film historians and critics had come to agree on a canon of approximately three hundred films from 1940–58. There remain, however, many differences of opinion over whether other films of the era, among them a number of well-known ones, qualify as film noirs or not. For instance, \"The Night of the Hunter\" (1955), starring Robert Mitchum in an acclaimed performance, is treated as a film noir by some critics, but not by others. Some critics include \"Suspicion\" (1941), directed by Alfred Hitchcock, in their catalogues of noir; others ignore it. Concerning films made either before or after the classic period, or outside of the United States at any time, consensus is even rarer.\n\nTo support their categorization of certain films as noirs and their rejection of others, many critics refer to a set of elements they see as marking examples of the mode. The question of what constitutes the set of noir's identifying characteristics is a fundamental source of controversy. For instance, critics tend to define the model film noir as having a tragic or bleak conclusion, but many acknowledged classics of the genre have clearly happy endings (e.g., \"Stranger on the Third Floor,\" \"The Big Sleep,\" \"Dark Passage,\" and \"The Dark Corner\"), while the tone of many other noir denouements is ambivalent. Some critics perceive classic noir's hallmark as a distinctive visual style. Others, observing that there is actually considerable stylistic variety among noirs, instead emphasize plot and character type. Still others focus on mood and attitude. No survey of classic noir's identifying characteristics can therefore be considered definitive. In the 1990s and 2000s, critics have increasingly turned their attention to that diverse field of films called neo-noir; once again, there is even less consensus about the defining attributes of such films made outside the classic period.\n\nThe low-key lighting schemes of many classic film noirs are associated with stark light/dark contrasts and dramatic shadow patterning—a style known as chiaroscuro (a term adopted from Renaissance painting). The shadows of Venetian blinds or banister rods, cast upon an actor, a wall, or an entire set, are an iconic visual in noir and had already become a cliché well before the neo-noir era. Characters' faces may be partially or wholly obscured by darkness—a relative rarity in conventional Hollywood filmmaking. While black-and-white cinematography is considered by many to be one of the essential attributes of classic noir, the color films \"Leave Her to Heaven\" (1945) and \"Niagara\" (1953) are routinely included in noir filmographies, while \"Slightly Scarlet\" (1956), \"Party Girl\" (1958), and \"Vertigo\" (1958) are classified as noir by varying numbers of critics.\n\nFilm noir is also known for its use of low-angle, wide-angle, and skewed, or Dutch angle shots. Other devices of disorientation relatively common in film noir include shots of people reflected in one or more mirrors, shots through curved or frosted glass or other distorting objects (such as during the strangulation scene in \"Strangers on a Train\"), and special effects sequences of a sometimes bizarre nature. Night-for-night shooting, as opposed to the Hollywood norm of day-for-night, was often employed. From the mid-1940s forward, location shooting became increasingly frequent in noir.\n\nIn an analysis of the visual approach of \"Kiss Me Deadly\", a late and self-consciously stylized example of classic noir, critic Alain Silver describes how cinematographic choices emphasize the story's themes and mood. In one scene, the characters, seen through a \"confusion of angular shapes\", thus appear \"caught in a tangible vortex or enclosed in a trap.\" Silver makes a case for how \"side light is used ... to reflect character ambivalence\", while shots of characters in which they are lit from below \"conform to a convention of visual expression which associates shadows cast upward of the face with the unnatural and ominous\".\n\nFilm noirs tend to have unusually convoluted story lines, frequently involving flashbacks and other editing techniques that disrupt and sometimes obscure the narrative sequence. Framing the entire primary narrative as a flashback is also a standard device. Voiceover narration, sometimes used as a structuring device, came to be seen as a noir hallmark; while classic noir is generally associated with first-person narration (i.e., by the protagonist), Stephen Neale notes that third-person narration is common among noirs of the semidocumentary style. Neo-noirs as varied as \"The Element of Crime\" (surrealist), \"After Dark, My Sweet\" (retro), and \"Kiss Kiss Bang Bang\" (meta) have employed the flashback/voiceover combination.\n\nBold experiments in cinematic storytelling were sometimes attempted during the classic era: \"Lady in the Lake\", for example, is shot entirely from the point of view of protagonist Philip Marlowe; the face of star (and director) Robert Montgomery is seen only in mirrors. \"The Chase\" (1946) takes oneirism and fatalism as the basis for its fantastical narrative system, redolent of certain horror stories, but with little precedent in the context of a putatively realistic genre. In their different ways, both \"Sunset Boulevard\" and \"D.O.A.\" are tales told by dead men. Latter-day noir has been in the forefront of structural experimentation in popular cinema, as exemplified by such films as \"Pulp Fiction\", \"Fight Club\", and \"Memento\".\n\nCrime, usually murder, is an element of almost all film noirs; in addition to standard-issue greed, jealousy is frequently the criminal motivation. A crime investigation—by a private eye, a police detective (sometimes acting alone), or a concerned amateur—is the most prevalent, but far from dominant, basic plot. In other common plots the protagonists are implicated in heists or con games, or in murderous conspiracies often involving adulterous affairs. False suspicions and accusations of crime are frequent plot elements, as are betrayals and double-crosses. According to J. David Slocum, \"protagonists assume the literal identities of dead men in nearly fifteen percent of all noir.\" Amnesia is fairly epidemic—\"noir's version of the common cold\", in the words of film historian Lee Server.\n\nFilm noirs tend to revolve around heroes who are more flawed and morally questionable than the norm, often fall guys of one sort or another. The characteristic protagonists of noir are described by many critics as \"alienated\"; in the words of Silver and Ward, \"filled with existential bitterness\". Certain archetypal characters appear in many film noirs—hardboiled detectives, femme fatales, corrupt policemen, jealous husbands, intrepid claims adjusters, and down-and-out writers. Among characters of every stripe, cigarette smoking is rampant. From historical commentators to neo-noir pictures to pop culture ephemera, the private eye and the femme fatale have been adopted as the quintessential film noir figures, though they do not appear in most films now regarded as classic noir. Of the twenty-six National Film Registry noirs, in only four does the star play a private eye: \"The Maltese Falcon\", \"The Big Sleep\", \"Out of the Past\", and \"Kiss Me Deadly\". Just four others readily qualify as detective stories: \"Laura\", \"The Killers\", \"The Naked City\", and \"Touch of Evil\".\n\nFilm noir is often associated with an urban setting, and a few cities—Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, and Chicago, in particular—are the location of many of the classic films. In the eyes of many critics, the city is presented in noir as a \"labyrinth\" or \"maze\". Bars, lounges, nightclubs, and gambling dens are frequently the scene of action. The climaxes of a substantial number of film noirs take place in visually complex, often industrial settings, such as refineries, factories, trainyards, power plants—most famously the explosive conclusion of \"White Heat\", set at a chemical plant. In the popular (and, frequently enough, critical) imagination, in noir it is always night and it always rains.\n\nA substantial trend within latter-day noir—dubbed \"film soleil\" by critic D. K. Holm—heads in precisely the opposite direction, with tales of deception, seduction, and corruption exploiting bright, sun-baked settings, stereotypically the desert or open water, to searing effect. Significant predecessors from the classic and early post-classic eras include \"The Lady from Shanghai\"; the Robert Ryan vehicle \"Inferno\" (1953); the French adaptation of Patricia Highsmith's \"The Talented Mr. Ripley\", \"Plein soleil\" (\"Purple Noon\" in the United States, more accurately rendered elsewhere as \"Blazing Sun\" or \"Full Sun\"; 1960); and director Don Siegel's version of \"The Killers\" (1964). The tendency was at its peak during the late 1980s and 1990s, with films such as \"Dead Calm\" (1989), \"After Dark, My Sweet\" (1990), \"The Hot Spot\" (1990), \"Delusion\" (1991), \"Red Rock West\" (1993) and the television series \"Miami Vice\".\n\nFilm noir is often described as essentially pessimistic. The noir stories that are regarded as most characteristic tell of people trapped in unwanted situations (which, in general, they did not cause but are responsible for exacerbating), striving against random, uncaring fate, and frequently doomed. The films are seen as depicting a world that is inherently corrupt. Classic film noir has been associated by many critics with the American social landscape of the era—in particular, with a sense of heightened anxiety and alienation that is said to have followed World War II. In author Nicholas Christopher's opinion, \"it is as if the war, and the social eruptions in its aftermath, unleashed demons that had been bottled up in the national psyche.\" Film noirs, especially those of the 1950s and the height of the Red Scare, are often said to reflect cultural paranoia; \"Kiss Me Deadly\" is the noir most frequently marshaled as evidence for this claim.\n\nFilm noir is often said to be defined by \"moral ambiguity\", yet the Production Code obliged almost all classic noirs to see that steadfast virtue was ultimately rewarded and vice, in the absence of shame and redemption, severely punished (however dramatically incredible the final rendering of mandatory justice might be). A substantial number of latter-day noirs flout such conventions: vice emerges triumphant in films as varied as the grim \"Chinatown\" and the ribald \"Hot Spot\".\n\nThe tone of film noir is generally regarded as downbeat; some critics experience it as darker still—\"overwhelmingly black\", according to Robert Ottoson. Influential critic (and filmmaker) Paul Schrader wrote in a seminal 1972 essay that \"\"film noir\" is defined by tone\", a tone he seems to perceive as \"hopeless\". In describing the adaptation of \"Double Indemnity,\" noir analyst Foster Hirsch describes the \"requisite hopeless tone\" achieved by the filmmakers, which appears to characterize his view of noir as a whole. On the other hand, definitive film noirs such as \"The Big Sleep\", \"The Lady from Shanghai\", \"Scarlet Street\" and \"Double Indemnity\" itself are famed for their hardboiled repartee, often imbued with sexual innuendo and self-reflexive humor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1377139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377139", "title": "Hecataeus of Abdera", "text": "Hecataeus of Abdera\n\nHecataeus of Abdera or of Teos (), was a Greek historian and sceptic philosopher who flourished in the 4th century BC.\nDiogenes Laertius (ix.61) relates that he was a student of Pyrrho, along with Eurylochus, Timon the Phliasian, Nausiphanes of Teos and others, and includes him among the \"Pyrrhoneans\". Diodorus Siculus (i.46.8) tells us that Hecataeus visited Thebes in the times of Ptolemy I Soter, and composed a history of Egypt. Diodorus supplies the comment that many additional Greeks went to and wrote about Egypt in the same period. The \"Suda\" gives him the nickname, 'critic grammarian' and says that he lived in the time of the successors to Alexander.\n\nNo complete works of Hecataeus have survived to our time, and our knowledge of his writing exists only in fragments located in various ancient Greek and Latin authors' works, primarily in Diodorus Siculus, whose ethnography of Egypt (\"Bibliotheca historica,\" Book I) represents by far the largest amount. Diodorus mostly paraphrases Hecataeus, thus it is difficult to extract Hecataeus' actual writings. (see Karl Wilhelm Ludwig Müller's \"Fragmenta historicorum Graecorum\").\n\nHecataeus wrote the work \"Aegyptiaca\" or \"On the Egyptians\" (the same title of Manetho's later work), both suggestions are based on known titles of other ethnographic works, an account of Egypt’s customs, beliefs and geography, and the single largest fragment from this lost work is held to be Diodorus' account of the Ramesseum, tomb of Osymandyas (i.47-50).\n\nDiodorus (ii.47.1-2) and Apollonius of Rhodes tell of another work by Hecataeus, \"On the Hyperboreans\". \n\nAccording to the \"Suda\", the 10th century Byzantine encyclopedia, he wrote a treatise on the poetry of Hesiod and Homer, but nothing of them has survived.\n\nHis digression on the Jews in \"Aegiptica\" was the first mention of them in Greek literature. It was subsequently paraphrased in Diodorus Siculus 40.3.8. A work attributed to him by Josephus \"On the Jews\" is considered spurious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13938236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13938236", "title": "Heikki Nurmio", "text": "Heikki Nurmio\n\nHeikki Nurmio (1887-1947) - Finnish jäger and writer. He is remembered for writing the lyrics for \"Jääkärien marssi\" (\"Jäger March\") composed by Jean Sibelius in 1917.\n\nHeikki Nurmio joined the Finnish jägers (27th Jäger Battalion) in 1916 in Germany. He participated in combats in Germany's Eastern front and fought against Russian empire in the Civil War. His book \"Jääkärin päiväkirja\" (Diary of a jäger) was published in 1918 and he became known also as the author of war novels that were meant for younger audiences.\n"}
{"id": "33208993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33208993", "title": "Henry Carrington Bolton", "text": "Henry Carrington Bolton\n\nHenry Carrington Bolton (1843–1903) was an American chemist and bibliographer of science.\n\nHe graduated from Columbia in 1862, and then studied chemistry with Jean Baptiste André Dumas and Charles Adolphe Wurtz in Paris; with Robert Bunsen, Hermann Kopp, and Gustav Kirchhoff at Heidelberg; with Friedrich Wöhler at Göttingen; and with August Wilhelm von Hofmann in Berlin, and received a D. Phil. at Göttingen in 1866, for his work called “On the Fluorine Compounds of Uranium”.\n\nAfter his graduation, he spent some years in travel. From 1872 until 1877, he was assistant in quantitative analysis in the Columbia School of Mines. In 1874 he was appointed professor of chemistry in the Woman's Medical College of the New York Infirmary. He resigned in 1877, when he became professor of chemistry and natural science in Trinity College. The celebration of the centennial of chemistry at Northumberland, Pennsylvania, the home of Joseph Priestley, who discovered oxygen in 1774, was suggested and brought about by Bolton.\n\nAmong his investigations, that of the action of organic acids on minerals is perhaps the most important, but most of his work was literary, and his private collection of early chemical books was unsurpassed in the United States. Bolton published large bibliographies of chemistry and later of all scientific periodicals which are still used. He included alchemy in the chemistry listings and emphasized the continuity of the transition. He was a member of many scientific societies, perhaps more than any contemporary.\n\nThe Science History Institute hosts the Bolton Society, which is named for H.C. Bolton, to support \"printed materials devoted to chemistry and related sciences\" and to support its Othmer Library of Chemical History.\n\n"}
{"id": "3547485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547485", "title": "History of Kyrenia", "text": "History of Kyrenia\n\nThe history of Kyrenia, a town in the area of Northern Cyprus that the Turks have occupied since 1974, dates back to Prehistoric Cyprus and continues into the present.\n\nKyrenia dates to the end of the Trojan War when many settlers arrived there from Achaea in the Peloponnese and established towns in the district. Evidence from archeological sites excavated in and around the town of Kyrenia bespeak of the area's settlement since the Neolithic period, 5800-3000 BC. Moreover, many Mycenaean, Geometric and Achaean tombs dating from 14th to 5th centuries BC, were also discovered. A fine climate, fertile soil and an abundance of water offered ideal conditions for the town's early settlement. \n\nCepheus from Arcadia is believed to be the founder of the town of Kyrenia. A military leader, he arrived at the north coast of the island bringing with him many settlers from various towns in Achaea. One such town, located near present-day Aigio in the Peloponnese, was also called Kyrenia. \n\nThe earliest reference made to the town of Kyrenia is found, together with that of the other seven city kingdoms of Cyprus, in Egyptian scripts dating from the period of Ramesses III, c. 1186–1155 BC.\n\nFrom its early days of settlement, Kyrenia's commerce and maritime trade benefited enormously from its proximity to the Asia Minor coast. Boats set sail from the Aegean islands, travelled along the Asia Minor coast, and then crossed over the short distance to the northern shores of Cyprus to reach the two city kingdoms of Lapithos and Kyrenia. This lively maritime activity (late 4th or early 3rd century BC) is evident in an ancient shipwreck discovered by Andreas Kariolou in 1965, just outside Kyrenia harbour. The vessel's route along Samos, Kos, Rhodes, the Asia Minor coastline and then Kyrenia, demonstrates the town's close maritime relations with other city kingdoms in the eastern Mediterranean. \n\nDuring the succession struggle between Ptolemy and Antigonus that followed Alexander the Great's death in 323 BC, Kyrenia was subdued under the rule of the kingdom of Lapithos that allied itself with Antigonus. Once the Ptolemies were successful in dominating the whole island, all city kingdoms were abolished. Kyrenia however, because of its maritime trade, continued to prosper. In the 2nd century BC, it is cited as one of six Cypriot towns which were benefactors to the Oracle at Delphi, that is, it received its special representatives who collected contributions and gifts. The town's prosperity at this time is also evident from its two temples, one dedicated to Apollo and the other to Aphrodite, and from the rich archeological finds dating from the Hellenistic period excavated within the present-day town limits. \n\nThe Romans succeeded the Ptolemies as rulers of Cyprus and during this time Lapithos became the administrative centre of the district. The numerous tombs excavated and the rich archeological finds dating from this period indicate however, that Kyrenia continued to be a populous and prosperous town. An inscription found at the base of a limestone statue dating from 13-37 AD, refers to \"Kyrenians Demos\" that is, the town's inhabitants. Here the Romans left their mark by constructing a castle with a seawall in front of it so that boats and ships could anchor in safety. \n\nChristianity found fertile ground in the area. The first Christian martyrs used the old quarries of Chrysokava, just east of Kyrenia castle, as catacombs and cut-rock cemeteries which are considered among the island's most important remains from this period. Later, some of these caves were converted into churches and feature beautiful iconography, the most representative of which is that found at Ayia Mavri. From these early days, the town of Kyrenia was an episcopal see. One of its first bishops, Theodotus, was arrested and tortured between 307-324, under the reign of Licinius.\n\nThe persecution of Christians officially ended in 313, when Constantine I and his co-emperor, Licinius, issued the Edict of Milan, which mandated toleration of Christians in the Roman Empire and freedom of worship. The martyrdom of Theodotus, however, occurred in 324 and it is this event that the Church annually commemorates on March 2.\n\nWith the division of the Roman empire into an eastern and western empire, in 395 Cyprus came under the Byzantine emperors and the Greek Orthodox Church. The Byzantine emperors fortified Kyrenia's Roman castle and in the 10th century, they constructed in its vicinity a church dedicated to St. George, which the garrison used as a chapel. Then, when in 806, Lambousa was destroyed in the Arab raids, Kyrenia grew in importance because its castle and garrison offered its inhabitants protection and security. Isaac Komnenos of Cyprus, the island's last Byzantine governor, sent his family and treasures to the castle for safety in 1191 when King Richard I of England of England went to war with him. However, Richard defeated Comnenus and became the island's new master. \n\nKing Richard's rule was not welcomed in Cyprus so he sold the island first to the Templars, and then in 1192, to Guy of Lusignan. Under Frankish rule, the villages of the district of Kyrenia became feudal estates and the town became once again the administrative and commercial centre for its region. The Lusignans enlarged the castle, built a wall and towers around the town, and extended the fortifications to the harbour. They also fortified the Byzantine castles of Saint Hilarion, Bouffavento and Kantara, which, together with Kyrenia Castle, protected the town from land and sea attacks. Kyrenia castle played a pivotal role in the island's history during the many disputes among the Frankish kings, as well as the conflicts with the Genoese. On numerous occasions the castle came under siege, but it never capitulated. \n\nIn 1489, Cyprus came under Venetian rule. The Venetians modified Kyrenia Castle to meet the threat that the use of gunpowder and cannons posed. The castle's royal quarters and three of its four thin and elegant Frankish towers were demolished and replaced by thickset circular towers that could better withstand cannon fire. These new towers, however, were never put to the test. In 1571, the castle and the town surrendered to the Ottoman army.\n\nUnder Ottoman rule, Kyrenia district was at first one of four, then one six, administrative districts of the island and the town remained its administrative capital. The town's fortunes declined however as it was transformed into a garrison town. The Christian population was expelled from the fortified city, and no one was allowed to reside within the castle other than the artillerymen and their families. These men terrorized the town's inhabitants and those of the surrounding villages, Christian and Muslim alike, with their arbitrary looting and crimes. The few local inhabitants who dared to stay were merchants and fishermen whose livelihood depended on the sea. They built their homes outside the city wall, which through time, neglect and disrepair, turned to ruin. The rest of the inhabitants moved further out to the area known as Pano Kyrenia or the ‘Riatiko' (so called because it once belonged to a king) or fled further inland and to the mountain villages of Thermeia, Karakoumi, Kazafani, Bellapais and Karmi. \n\nThe town revived again when bribes and gifts paid to local Turkish officials caused them to permit local maritime trade with Asia Minor and the Aegean islands to resume. In 1783, the church of Chrysopolitissa was renovated. Then in 1856, following the Hatt-I-Humayum, which introduced social and political reform and greater religious freedom for the various peoples of the Ottoman Empire, the church of Archangel Michael was rebuilt on a rocky mount overlooking the sea. At about this time, many of the Christian inhabitants of the surrounding villages reestablished themselves in the town. Local agriculture and maritime trade, particularly the export of carobs to Asia Minor, allowed the people of Kyrenia to have a comfortable living, and some even to educate their children and pursue other cultural activities.\n\nIn 1878, following a secret agreement between the British and Ottoman governments, the island was ceded to Great Britain as a military base in the eastern Mediterranean. At first, Great Britain did not undertake major administrative changes, so Kyrenia remained the district's capital. A road was constructed through the mountain pass to connect the town to the island's capital, Nicosia, and the harbour was repaired and expanded to accommodate increasing trade with the opposite coast. The town's municipal affairs were put in order and the municipal council took an active role in cleaning and modernizing the town. In 1893, a hospital was built through private contributions and effort. By the 1900s (decade), Kyrenia was a buzzing little town with a new school building, its own newspaper, social, educational and athletic clubs. It was also a favoured vacation spot for many wealthy Nicosia families. Many homes were converted into pensions and boarding houses and in 1906, the first hotel, The ‘Akteon,' was built by the sea. These first decades of British rule however, also saw increased economic hardship for the population. High taxation, frequent droughts and a world economic depression were precipitating factors for a mass exodus of people from the town and district, first to Egypt and then to the United States. \n\nIn 1922, the episcopal see of Kyrenia returned to the town after the completion of a new metropolitan building. That same year, the Greco-Turkish war brought to a halt all trade with the opposite coast causing a serious economic depression. To the rescue came a young repatriate from the USA who built the town's first modern hotels; first the ‘Seaview' in 1922 followed by the ‘Dome' in 1932 - both built with a foreign tourist clientele in mind. Kyrenia's mild climate, picturesque harbour, numerous archeological sites, panoramic views that combined sea, mountains and vegetation, coupled with modern amenities, soon attracted many travellers and Kyrenia's economy revived through tourism. After the Second World War, more hotels were built and the town remained a favoured vacation spot for Nicosia residents and foreign travellers alike. To the town's Greek and Turkish inhabitants were added many from Great Britain who chose Kyrenia as their permanent place of residence.\n\nIn 1960, Cyprus gained its independence from Great Britain. However, the intercommunal conflict that broke out in 1963-64 between the island's Greek and Turkish population again eroded Kyrenia's prosperity. While skirmishes in Kyrenia were minimal, Turkish Cypriot irregulars blockaded the Kyrenia-Nicosia road and occupied Saint Hilarion castle. Despite these difficulties, the 1960s and early 1970s was a period of lively cultural and economic activity. A new town hall was built and a Folklore Museum established. The ancient shipwreck already alluded to was reassembled, together with all its amphorae and cargo, and permanently exhibited at the castle. The number of new hotels and tourists multiplied and a new road was constructed in the early 1970s connecting the town to Nicosia from the east. The town's cultural activities greatly increased. Other than the many traditional cultural and religious fairs and festivals annually celebrated, flower shows, yachting races, concerts and theatre performances were organized. Kyrenia, the smallest of Cypriot towns, was undoubtedly the island's most precious jewel. \n\nThe town's inhabitants, Greek, Turk, Maronite, Armenian, Latin and British peacefully coexisted and cooperated in their daily affairs and the town had grown beyond its two historic neighbourhoods of Kato (Lower) Kyrenia and Pano (Upper) Kyrenia. It expanded towards the mountain slopes to form the new neighbourhood of \"California\", and eastward it had just about reached the outskirts of Thermeia, Karakoumi and Ayios Georgios. On July 20, 1974, Turkey landed on the island to protect the Turkish minority from attack from the Greek military coup for enosis . The Greek Cypriots of Kyrenia abandoned their homes and headed to south of what is now the green line.\n\nIn 1974, there were 47 villages in the district of Kyrenia . Greek and Maronite Cypriots constituted 83% of the district's total population, while the Turkish Cypriots constituted just 15% of the total.\n\nIn 1974 the Turkish military conducted the Turkish Invasion of Cyprus. As a result, the Greeks of Kyrenia were expelled from their homes and became refugees. Today, the Republic of Cyprus continues to have a bishop of Kyrenia and the pre-1974 Greek inhabitants of Kyrenia continue to participate elections for the Kyrenia municipality in exile.\n\n"}
{"id": "3051735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3051735", "title": "History of Sudan (1986–present)", "text": "History of Sudan (1986–present)\n\nIn June 1986, Sadiq al Mahdi formed a coalition government with the Umma Party, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), the National Islamic Front (NIF), and four southern parties. Unfortunately, however, Sadiq proved to be a weak leader and incapable of governing Sudan. Party factionalism, corruption, personal rivalries, scandals, and political instability characterized the Sadiq regime. After less than a year in office, Sadiq al Mahdi dismissed the government because it had failed to draft a new penal code to replace the sharia, reach an agreement with the IMF, end the civil war in the south, or devise a scheme to attract remittances from Sudanese expatriates. To retain the support of the DUP and the southern political parties, Sadiq formed another ineffective coalition government.\n\nInstead of removing the ministers who had been associated with the failures of the first coalition government, Sadiq al Mahdi retained thirteen of them, of whom eleven kept their previous portfolios. As a result, many Sudanese rejected the second coalition government as being a replica of the first. To make matters worse, Sadiq and DUP leader Muhammad Uthman al Mirghani signed an inadequate memorandum of understanding that fixed the new government's priorities as affirming the application of the sharia to Muslims, consolidating the Islamic banking system, and changing the national flag and national emblem. Furthermore, the memorandum directed the government to remove former leader Nimeiri's name from all institutions and dismiss all officials appointed by Nimeiri to serve in international and regional organizations. As expected, antigovernment elements criticized the memorandum for not mentioning the civil war, famine, or the country's disintegrating social and economic conditions.\n\nIn August 1987, the DUP brought down the government because Sadiq al Mahdi opposed the appointment of a DUP member, Ahmad as Sayid, to the Supreme Commission. For the next nine months, Sadiq and Mirghani failed to agree on the composition of another coalition government. During this period, Sadiq moved closer to the NIF. However, the NIF refused to join a coalition government that included leftist elements. Moreover, Turabi indicated that the formation of a coalition government would depend on numerous factors, the most important of which were the resignation or dismissal of those serving in senior positions in the central and regional governments, the lifting of the state of emergency reimposed in July 1987, and the continuation of the Constituent Assembly.\n\nBecause of the endless debate over these issues, it was not until May 15, 1988, that a new coalition government emerged headed by Sadiq al Mahdi. Members of this coalition included the Umma, the DUP, the NIF, and some southern parties. As in the past, however, the coalition quickly disintegrated because of political bickering among its members. Major disagreements included the NIF's demand that it be given the post of commissioner of Khartoum, the inability to establish criteria for the selection of regional governors, and the NIF's opposition to the replacement of senior military officers and the chief of staff of the executive branch.\n\nIn November 1988, another more explosive political issue emerged when Mirghani and the SPLM signed an agreement in Addis Ababa that included provisions for a cease-fire, the freezing of the sharia, the lifting of the state of emergency, and the abolition of all foreign political and military pacts. The two sides also proposed to convene a constitutional conference to decide Sudan's political future. The NIF opposed this agreement because of its stand on the sharia. When the government refused to support the agreement, the DUP withdrew from the coalition. Shortly thereafter armed forces commander in chief Lieutenant General Fathi Ahmad Ali presented an ultimatum, signed by 150 senior military officers, to Sadiq al Mahdi demanding that he make the coalition government more representative and that he announce terms for ending the civil war.\n\nOn March 11, 1989, Sadiq al Mahdi responded to this pressure by dissolving the government. The new coalition had included the Umma, the DUP, and representatives of southern parties and the trade unions. The NIF refused to join the coalition because it was not committed to enforcing the sharia. Sadiq claimed his new government was committed to ending the southern civil war by implementing the November 1988 DUP-SPLM agreement. He also promised to mobilize government resources to bring food relief to famine areas, reduce the government's international debt, and build a national political consensus.\n\nSadiq's inability to live up to these promises eventually caused his downfall. On June 30, 1989, Colonel (later Lieutenant General) Umar Hassan Ahmad al Bashir overthrew Sadiq and established the Revolutionary Command Council for National Salvation to rule Sudan. Bashir's commitment to imposing the sharia on the non-Muslim south and to seeking a military victory over the SPLA, however, seemed likely to keep the country divided for the foreseeable future and hamper resolution of the same problems faced by Sadiq al Mahdi. Moreover, the emergence of the NIF as a political force made compromise with the south more unlikely.\n\nThe Revolutionary Command Council dissolved itself in October 1993. Its powers were devolved to the President (al Bashir declared himself the President) and the Transitional National Assembly.\n\nThe civil war in the south has displaced more than 4 million southerners. Some fled into southern cities, such as Juba; others trekked as far north as Khartoum and even into Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Egypt, and other neighboring countries. These people were unable to grow food or earn money to feed themselves, and malnutrition and starvation became widespread. The lack of investment in the south resulted as well in what international humanitarian organizations call a “lost generation” who lack educational opportunities, access to basic health care services, and little prospects for productive employment in the small and weak economies of the south or the north.\n\nIn early 2003 a new rebellion of Sudan Liberation Movement/Army (SLM/A) and Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) groups in the western region of Darfur began. The rebels accused the central government of neglecting the Darfur region, although there is uncertainty regarding the objectives of the rebels and whether they merely seek an improved position for Darfur within Sudan or outright secession. Both the government and the rebels have been accused of atrocities in this war, although most of the blame has fallen on Arab militias (Janjaweed) allied with the government. The rebels have alleged that these militias have been engaging in ethnic cleansing in Darfur, and the fighting has displaced hundreds of thousands of people, many of them seeking refuge in neighboring Chad. There are various estimates on the number of human casualties, ranging from under twenty thousand to several hundred thousand dead, from either direct combat or starvation and disease inflicted by the conflict.\n\nIn 2004 Chad brokered negotiations in N'Djamena, leading to the April 8 Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement between the Sudanese government, the JEM, and the SLA. However, the conflict continued despite the ceasefire, and the African Union (AU) formed a Ceasefire Commission (CFC) to monitor its observance. In August 2004, the African Union sent 150 Rwandan troops in to protect the ceasefire monitors. It, however, soon became apparent that 150 troops would not be enough, so they were joined by 150 Nigerian troops.\n\nOn September 18, 2004 United Nations Security Council issued Resolution 1564 declaring that the government of Sudan had not met its commitments, expressing concern at helicopter attacks and assaults by the Janjaweed militia against villages in Darfur. It welcomed the intention of the African Union to enhance its monitoring mission in Darfur and urged all member states to support such efforts. During 2005 the African Union Mission in Sudan force was increased to about 7,000.\nThe Chadian-Sudanese conflict officially started on December 23, 2005, when the government of Chad declared a state of war with Sudan and called for the citizens of Chad to mobilize themselves against Rally for Democracy and Liberty (RDL) militants (Chadian rebels backed by the Sudanese government) and Sudanese militiamen who attacked villages and towns in eastern Chad, stealing cattle, murdering citizens, and burning houses.\n\nPeace talks between the southern rebels and the government made substantial progress in 2003 and early 2004, although skirmishes in parts of the south have reportedly continued. The two sides have agreed that, following a final peace treaty, southern Sudan will enjoy autonomy for six years, and after the expiration of that period, the people of southern Sudan will be able to vote in a referendum on independence. Furthermore, oil revenues will be divided equally between the government and rebels during the six-year interim period. The ability or willingness of the government to fulfill these promises has been questioned by some observers, however, and the status of three central and eastern provinces was a point of contention in the negotiations. Some observers wondered whether hard line elements in the north would allow the treaty to proceed.\n\nA final peace treaty was signed on 9 January 2005 in Nairobi. The terms of the peace treaty are as follows:\n\nOn 31 August 2006, the United Nations Security Council approved Resolution 1706 to send a new peacekeeping force of 17,300 to Darfur. In the following months, however, UNMIS was not able to deploy to Darfur due to the Government of the Sudan’s steadfast opposition to a peacekeeping operation undertaken solely by the United Nations. The UN then embarked on an alternative, innovative approach to try to begin stabilize the region through the phased strengthening of AMIS, before transfer of authority to a joint African Union/United Nations peacekeeping operation. Following prolonged and intensive negotiations with the Government of the Sudan and significant international pressure, the Government of the Sudan finally accepted the peacekeeping operation in Darfur.\n\nIn 2009 the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for al-Bashir, accusing him of crimes against humanity and war crimes.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010 a series of conflicts between rival nomadic tribes in South Kordofan caused a large number of casualties and displaced thousands.\n\nAn agreement for the restoration of harmony between Chad and Sudan, signed January 15, 2010, marked the end of a five-year war between them.\n\nThe Sudanese government and the JEM signed a ceasefire agreement ending the Darfur conflict in February, 2010.\n\nIn January 2011 referendum on independence for Southern Sudan was held, and the South voted overwhelmingly to secede later that year as the Republic of South Sudan, with its capital at Juba and Kiir Mayardit as its first president. Al-Bashir announced that he accepted the result, but violence soon erupted in the disputed region of Abyei, claimed by both the North and the South.\n\nOn June 6, 2011 armed conflict broke out in South Kordofan between the forces of Northern and Southern Sudan, ahead of the scheduled independence of the South on July 9. This followed an agreement for both sides to withdraw from Abyei.On June, 20 the parties agreed to demilitarize the contested area of Abyei where Ethiopian peacekeepers will be deployed.\n\nOn July 9, 2011 South Sudan became an independent country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49083349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49083349", "title": "Jan Albert Bakker", "text": "Jan Albert Bakker\n\nJan Albert Bakker (born 4 June 1935, Breda) is a Dutch archeologist. He is an emeritus lecturer of Prehistoric Archaeology of Northwestern Europe at the University of Amsterdam, where he worked at the Institute for Prae- and Protohistory. His field of expertise is the Funnelbeaker culture and the Dutch dolmen called hunebeds.\n\nBakker obtained his PhD from the University of Amsterdam in 1972 and later started working as lecturer at the same university. He retired in 2000. He was one of the researchers who worked on a hunebed near the village of Drouwen between 1968 and 1970, this was the last hunebed to be excavated in the Netherlands.\n\nBakker became a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "1391990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1391990", "title": "Kazimierz Jarochowski", "text": "Kazimierz Jarochowski\n\nKazimierz Jarochowski (1828–1888) was a Polish historian, publicist of the Dziennik Poznański (Poznań Daily), co-founder of PTPN.\n"}
{"id": "14199274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14199274", "title": "Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library", "text": "Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library\n\nThe Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library in St. Louis, Missouri is the only collection, outside the Vatican itself, of microfilms of more than 37,000 works from the \"Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana\", the Vatican Library in Europe. It is located in the Pius XII Memorial Library on the campus of Saint Louis University.\n\nThe Library was created by Lowrie J. Daly (1914–2000), with funding from the Knights of Columbus. The goal was to make Vatican and other documents more available to researchers in North America.\n\nMicrofilming of Vatican manuscripts began in 1951, and according to the Library's website, was the largest microfilming project that had been undertaken up to that date. From 1951 to 1957, twelve million manuscript pages were recorded, from 30,000 different works. This represents approximately 75% of the manuscripts available in the targeted language groups. Other microfilm projects in the 1950s included Jesuit archival material from Rome, archives in both North America and South America, and the Philippines.\n\nThe Library opened in 1953, and moved to the St. Louis University campus, in the Pius XII Memorial Library, in 1959. The first librarian was Charles J. Ermatinger, who served until 2000.\n\nAs of 2007, the Library has microfilmed versions of over 37,000 manuscripts, with material in Greek, Latin, Arabic, Hebrew and Ethiopic, as well as several more common Western European languages. There are reproductions of many works from the Biblioteca Palatina and Biblioteca Cicognara at the Vatican, as well as Papal letter registers from the \"Archivio Segreto Vaticano\" (Vatican Secret Archives) from the 9th to 16th centuries, in the series \"Registra Vaticana\" and \"Registra Supplicationium\".\n\nThe Film Library also collects manuscript catalogs and handwritten inventories of Vatican Library manuscripts, as well as those of other libraries, including a collection of microfilmed copies of over 2,500 medieval and renaissance manuscripts from other libraries, over 20,000 incunabula (early printed books), and 52,000 color slides of illuminated manuscripts.\n\nThe collection also includes many hardcopy works on the subjects of palaeography, codicology, illumination, and other topics related to manuscript studies.\n\nThe Library hosts an annual conference on Manuscript Studies, which is held in St. Louis in mid-October.\n\nSince 1957, the Library has published a twice-annual journal, \"Manuscripta\", which focuses on manuscript studies of medieval and Renaissance documents. It is published through Brepols Publishers.\n"}
{"id": "829548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=829548", "title": "Lost history", "text": "Lost history\n\nMany significant locations, cultures/groups, and objects throughout history have been lost, inspiring archaeologists and treasure-hunters around the world to search for them. \nThe existence of some of these places or items, particularly those from ancient history, is legendary and remains in doubt. \nExcluded from these lists are lost works—literary, historical, or mythological writings which have no current complete copies but are referenced by their contemporaries.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22021824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22021824", "title": "Michel Étienne Descourtilz", "text": "Michel Étienne Descourtilz\n\nMichel Étienne Descourtilz (25 November 1777, Boiste near Pithiviers – 1835, Paris), was a French physician, botanist and historiographer of the Haitian Revolution. He was the father of illustrator Jean-Théodore Descourtilz, with whom he sometimes collaborated.\n\nIn 1799, after completing his medical studies he traveled to Charleston, South Carolina and Santiago, Cuba, arriving in Haiti on 2 April. Despite a passport from Toussaint Louverture and serving as physician with the forces of Jean-Jacques Dessalines, he was in constant danger. His plant collections were mostly from between Port-au-Prince and Cap-Haïtien and along the Artibonite River. All his natural history collections and many drawings were destroyed during the course of the revolution. In 1803 he returned to France, worked as a physician in a hospital at Beaumont and served as president of the Paris Linnean Society.\n\nAs a taxonomist he circumscribed the genus \"Nauchea\" (family Fabaceae).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144235", "title": "Mikałaj Ułaščyk", "text": "Mikałaj Ułaščyk\n\nMikałaj Ułaščyk (Mikalai Ulashchyk, Belarusian language: \"Мікалай Улашчык\", Russian: \"Николай Николаевич Улащик\"; February 14, 1906 - November 22, 1986) was a Belarusian academic historian and archaeologist known for significant contributions to the research in the medieval history of Belarus.\n\nHe was born in the village of Vickaŭščyna close to Minsk. His birthplace later became a subject of one of his works.\n\nIn 1929 Mikałaj Ułaščyk graduated from the Belarusian State University, specialised in history. In 1930 he was arrested by the NKVD together with a large number of Belarusian intellectuals accused of \"anti-Soviet activity\" and \"nationalism\" within the framed-up Case of the Union of Liberation of Belarus. He was deported to a labor camp close to Vyatka. After his release in 1935 he was again twice arrested and imprisoned in the following years (1941-1942, 1950-1955) because of his active opposing the official Soviet propagandist historiography.\n\nAfter the final release he was not able to go back to Belarus and settled in Moscow where since 1955 he worked at the Institute of History of the USSR Academy of Sciences.\n\nMikałaj Ułaščyk became doctor of sciences and author of numerous works on the History of Belarus and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania related to the research of chronicles, source documents and archaeography. He was also the editor of 32nd and 35th volumes of the Full Collection of Russian Chronicles.\n"}
{"id": "1858822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858822", "title": "Mocha Island", "text": "Mocha Island\n\nMocha () is a small Chilean island located west of the coast of Arauco Province in the Pacific Ocean. The island is approximately in area, with a small chain of mountains running roughly in north-south direction. In Mapuche mythology, the souls of dead people travel west to visit this island. The island today is home to the Mocha Island National Reserve, a nature reserve that covers approximately 45% of the island's surface. The island is noted as the location of numerous historic shipwrecks. The waters off the island are a popular place for recreational sea fishing.\n\nGeologically the island is a basement high and it does also contains strata of Ranquil Formation whose main outcrops lie in the continent.\n\nThe island was historically inhabited by an indigenous coastal population of Mapuches known as the Lafkenches. The first European to document Mocha was Juan Bautista Pastene on September 10, 1544, who named it \"Isla de San Nicolas de Tolentino\".\n\nAccording to Juan Ignacio Molina, the Dutch captain Joris van Spilbergen observed the use of chilihueques (a South American camelid) by native Mapuches of Mocha Island as plough animals in 1614.\n\nMocha Island was regularly visited by pirates from the Netherlands and England. Francis Drake and Olivier van Noort are known to have used the island as a supply base. When Drake was visiting it during his circumnavigation of the globe he was seriously hurt by hostile Mapuches that inhabited the island. Eventually the Mapuche on the island were transported in 1685, from Mocha Island by Governor José de Garro to a reducción on the plain on the right bank of the Bio Bio River called the Valley of Mocha that later became the location of the modern city of Concepción, Chile.\n\nThe waters off the island are also noted as the home to a famous 19th century sperm whale, Mocha Dick as depicted by American explorer and author Jeremiah N. Reynolds who published an account, \"Mocha Dick: Or The White Whale of the Pacific: A Leaf from a Manuscript Journal\" in May, 1839 in \"The Knickerbocker\" magazine in New York. Mocha Dick was, in part, the inspiration for the fictional whale Moby Dick in the 1851 novel \"Moby-Dick\" by Herman Melville\n\nIn recent years, considerable evidence has emerged suggesting pre-Columbian contact between the Mapuche and Polynesians. In December 2007, several human skulls with Polynesian features, such as a pentagonal shape when viewed from behind, were found lying on a shelf in a museum in Concepción. These skulls originated from Mocha Island. Professor Lisa Matisoo-Smith of the University of Otago and José Miguel Ramírez Aliaga of the University of Valparaíso hope to win agreement soon with the locals of Mocha Island to begin an excavation search for Polynesian remains on the island.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26401254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401254", "title": "Parterre (theater audience)", "text": "Parterre (theater audience)\n\nThe word \"parterre\" comes from the French \"par\" and \"terre\" and literally translated means “on the ground.” Originally, the term was used in the 16th century to refer to a formal ornamental garden, but by the mid-17th century, it was increasingly used to refer both to the ground level of a theatre where spectators stood to watch performances and to the group of spectators who occupied that space.\n\nAlthough the word parterre originated in France, historians use the term interchangeably with its English equivalent, “the pit,” to designate the same part of the audience in England, present-day Italy, and Austria. While parterre audiences differed in social status, size, inclusion of women, and seating arrangements, they shared the characteristic of being noisy, often boisterous, interactive audiences.\n\nToday, historians are divided over whether or not parterre audiences deliberately challenged political authority, what role they played in constructing public opinion, and if they contributed to the formation of a public sphere in early modern Europe.\n\nIt is impossible to categorize parterre audiences as belonging exclusively to one social class, but historians agree that cheaper parterre tickets drew a proportionately higher number of lower-level professionals and commercial labourers, such as artisans, students, journalists, and lawyers, to the pit. However, the occupation, wealth, sex, and social standing of parterre spectators differed depending on geographical location.\n\nHistorians studying theater audiences in France have traditionally identified the parterre as the exclusive domain of lower-class males, with the exception of female prostitutes. More recently, scholars such as Jeffrey Ravel argue that parterre audiences were more socially heterogeneous than previously believed. For one, spectators who sat in the more expensive loges (balcony boxes) were free to meander into the parterre as they wished, and it was fashionable for younger well-off men to stand in the parterre. As well, despite restrictions against women entering the parterre, cross-dressing was not uncommon.\nEngland's parterre audiences differed from France because of the relatively high number of elites and “fashionable women” who socialized in the pit. Historian Jennifer Hall-Witt provides several possible explanations for the unique character of England's parterre. In English theaters some bench seats were available to parterre spectators, while theatergoers who could not find seats socialized in wide corridors known as fop-allies that ran down the sides and centre of the benches. Also in England, unlike in France or Austria, parterre tickets were not the cheapest; a galley ticket was less than the average half-guinea price of a parterre seat in a \"London\" theater. Ultimately, the pit in England was more socially respectable than elsewhere in Europe.\n\nIf separation between “nobles and commoners” in English or French theaters was informal, in Austrian theaters, the parterre formally differentiated between elites and non-elites. For instance; in 1748, Vienna's Kärntnertor theater partitioned a section of the standing parterre to create a second parterre behind the orchestra where only elites could sit.\n\nParterre practices ranged from harmless gossiping to violent rioting. Talking, laughing, whistling, drunken brawls, and hissing, even dancing and singing was common behaviour. Prostitution was normal and individuals who ventured into the parterre could expect to be pick-pocketed, spied upon, and jostled about, in spite of the police or doormen who were charged with maintaining order. Yet, according to historian and musicologist James Johnson, \n\nFew complained about the noise and bustle ... eighteenth-century audiences considered music little more than an agreeable ornament of a magnificent spectacle, in which they themselves played the principal part.\n\nThe antics of parterre audiences included mimicking performances, ogling at the women in the boxes, and making fun of people, as in one performance when “a few misfits in the parterre made sure the whole hall noticed one unlucky woman whose wig was taller than the door to her box.” It is not surprising then, that for theatergoers the spectacle in the pit was the primary source of “endless amusement.”\n\nAudience members in the parterre did not hesitate to approve, or censure, plays, performers, royal edicts, or offending individuals. For example, “it was in the parterre that Jean-Jacques Rousseau received “kicks in the rear” after his withering attack on French music.” Responses could take less-intrusive forms of applause or booing, but the parterre was not always so kind. James Van Horn Melton writes that “audiences at London's Drury Lane Theater expressed their dissatisfaction by pelting the stage with oranges.”\n\nWhat influence did parterre audiences have? Though only informal critics, the size of the parterre, which ranged from around 500 to over 1000 spectators, meant their voice carried some weight with theater managers, whose commercial success depended partly on their patronage. On many occasions, for example, audience members from the parterre succeeded in forcing performers to switch programs mid-act, or repeat their favourite arias.\n\nBy the mid-18th century the word \"parterre\" acquired additional meaning as contemporaries increasingly identified the parterre as a “public judge,” whose response to a performance could determine the success of a play or even the careers of actors, actresses, and playwrights. The wide range of 18th century sources defining the parterre as a judge, include personal letters, memoirs, and published periodicals, such as Joseph Addison and Richard Steele’s \"The Spectator\" and \"The Tatler\", which circulated in London’s Coffeehouses. Historians frequently quote portions from the French philosopher and playwright, Jean-François Marmontel's entry for “parterre,” published in the 1776 supplement to Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert's Encyclopédie, which declares, “the parterre is the best of all judges.”\n\nHowever, scholars caution against equating the parterre with “the public,” especially since the latter term has changed meanings in the past two centuries. While parterre audiences were located at, or near, the bottom of the theater's social hierarchy, attending the theater was still an exclusive activity, limited mostly to the middle ranks of people and above. Thus, \"the public” that was the parterre was distinct from \"the people\" who could not afford even the cheapest theater tickets.\n\nIn the late 17th century, royal authorities in England, France, and regions in present-day Italy published numerous edicts threatening to discipline unruly behaviour, from interrupting performances to wearing hats, that were distributed as pamphlets or read aloud in theaters. These edicts where directed at the parterre, and many theater managers, performers, music critics, and individuals from the loges applauded such efforts to enforce order in the parterre. Disciplinary measures varied, but police records from the 18th century tell of police banning disruptive individuals after fights, and punishing unacceptable behaviour, such as defecating in the parterre, as well as guarding against petty crime, such as theft.\n\nYet, parterre behaviour continued largely unchanged. In Rome and Parma, efforts to regulate start times were ineffective and ignored, especially by “the notorious minor abbots who littered the parterre. Even a request from a bishop in England to lower the curtain before the start of the Sabbath at midnight could not prevent the pit from rioting and trashing the theater when the stage manager attempted to comply. Whether the inability of all efforts to impose order in the parterre reflects poor policing capabilities, the declining authority of the monarchy, or the deliberate resistance of the parterre is undecided.\n\nBetween the late 18th and early 19th centuries there was a transformation in theater audiences from active participants to passive viewers, most noticeably in the parterre. While there is consensus among scholars that such a transformation occurred, how and why it occurred is highly contested.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, theater designs and lighting technology improved dramatically. Previously, the theaters' lighting came from individual candles surrounding the stage, small chandeliers hanging from the boxes, or larger chandeliers that illuminated the whole theater. The smoke from the candles often surrounded the stage with a cloud of haze, leading one historian to remark, “spectators sometimes saw one another more clearly than the performers.” New lighting systems, such as the innovation of gaslights in England, reduced smoke and the invention of a system of pulleys to manipulate chandeliers enabled stage managers to direct the theater's primary light-source, and thus the audiences’ gaze, towards the stage.\n\nChanges in theater design complemented the new lighting. Early 17th century theater-houses, which were often converted tennis courts, were not conducive to creating the illusion of a single vantage point on the stage. Instead, the boxes often faced each other and an audience member in the parterre would be equally comfortable looking into the loges.\n\nWhile historians agree that technological changes affected the attentiveness of parterre audiences, they also agree that these innovations alone do not account for silent audiences.\n\nHistorians specializing in the history of the parterre in France attribute the movement to install seats in playhouses with efforts to silence the unwieldy parterre. Seats were installed in the Comédie-Française in 1782 and in 1788 benches were installed in the Comédie-Italienne.\n\nIn 1777 Jean-François de La Harpe’s proposal to install seats in the parterre sparked the debates between philosophes, playwrights, and officials about the desirability and motives behind seating the parterre. Marmontel insisted that plans to seat the parterre was really an imposition of the “aristocracy” on “theatrical democracy.” The theater architect, Claude Nicolas Ledoux, saw the plans for seating in a more positive light, and wrote that “[T]he cabal will end, and we will judge authors more rationally once we have destroyed what is incorrectly called the enthusiasm of the parterre.” Among those who favoured seating the parterre were stage managers and independent music critics, who linked the boisterous parterre to moral decline in the theatre and saw benches as a way to “tame” them. Regardless of whether individuals advocated for or against installing benches, what is consistent is the belief that seating would pacify the parterre. Other records indicate that the move was also prompted by the series of fires in theater-houses and the realization that packed parterre crowds were a possible fire hazard.\n\nHow silent was the seated parterre? Evidence shows that noise and disruptions continued throughout the first half of the 19th century. In England and in regions, such as Rome and Parma, partial seating had always been available for parterre audiences and did not guarantee calmer audiences. According to Martha Feldman, the theaters in Rome were “the wildest in Europe.” However, for historians who identify the parterre as a site of public opinion, the debates over seating are significant because they provide evidence that disorder in the parterre was an act of disobedience against authorities and that the parterre was able to withstand attempts to pacify them and continued to act as arbiters of public opinion outside the realm of the monarchy.\n\nAnother explanation for the transformation of parterre audiences by the end of the 18th century is that changes in elite culture and in their behavior at the theater was mirrored by the parterre and the growing “bourgeois” audience whose values, according to some historians, included “politeness and emotional self-restraint.”\n\nChanging prescriptions for appropriate theater behavior found in conduct books reflect such a shift. Where it was once fashionable to arrive late and not pay too much attention to the performances, the new culture of politeness emphasized the importance of silence and attentiveness. Hall-Witt argues that the shift in elite behavior in theatres was prompted by changes to the theater's subscription to the loges, which meant that box seats would be available to non-elites. As a result, the social hierarchy that was mirrored in the seating arrangements of the theater were blurred. By adhering to a new etiquette of politeness that valued silence and attentiveness, elites could replace old methods of differentiation based on seating, with 'superior' behavior.\n\nScholars analyzing parterre audiences from a musicology perspective argue that changes in musical composition, illustrated by the works of composers such as Christoph Willibald Gluck and Ludwig van Beethoven, changed how spectators listened. James Johnson is foremost among the scholars who argue that new styles of music precipitated quieter audiences. In his work, \"Listening in Paris: A Cultural History\", Johnson argues that in pre-19th century theaters, listening was superficial. The transformation to “engaged listening, and by extension, from talkative to silent audiences,” paralleled new theories of music that required more attentive listening.\n\nOther scholars writing on the listening habits of audiences in the 18th and 19th century are critical of Johnson's approach. William Weber writes that current \"ideological construct[s] of taste and proper listening dates...from the early nineteenth century\" and cautions that approaching the 18th century listening habits from this perspective undermines their musical culture. In Weber's view, socializing and talking did not exclude listening.\n\nJürgen Habermas’s influential work \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" provides historians with the theoretical foundation for scholarship on the rise of a public sphere in Europe. For Habermas the public sphere constitutes a \"realm of communication\" that is open, egalitarian, rational, and critical and can be traced to the rise of the \"bourgeois\" in the 17th and 18th centuries. Significantly, for scholars interested in the history of the theater Habermas argues that the \"realm of arts\" served as training grounds for a critical public opinion, which later manifested itself in the realm of politics. Keith Baker’s work, which builds on Habermas’s model of the public sphere, provides historians of theater audiences with another useful framework. Baker's analysis of the 18th century rhetorical construction of “public opinion” as a tribunal and symbol of political culture is especially influential.\n\nJeffrey Ravel’s recent work, which is a cultural history of \"The Contested Parterre: Public Theatre and French Political Culture: 1680-1791\", is the first scholarly study devoted to writing the history of the parterre. The significance of the parterre for Ravel is how it functioned as a critical segment of public opinion in an absolutist state, eventually becoming a symbol of political culture in France. Ravel writes that in France, public opinion had already emerged by the 1750s, decades before the date most historians associate with the emergence of public opinion. Ravel finds evidence of an emerging public opinion in the parterre audiences of the theater, which in his view was “one of the first forums in France where the subjects of the Bourbon Crown insisted on their place in French political culture.”\n\nUsing 18th century police records, Ravel argues that disorderliness in the pit demonstrates the critical nature of parterre audiences, who were not merely responding to performances and the social activates around them, but were undermining the very authority of the court, who remained, at the same time, the patrons of France’s “privileged” theaters, the Comédie-Française, Comédie-Italienne, and the\" Paris Opera\". In other words, “the public theatre...did not reproduce the forms of political and cultural authority generated at Versailles.”\n\nAs part of his analysis, Ravel examines representations of the parterre in literature, from the 17th to 18th centuries. Ravel demonstrates how writers constructed an image of the parterre as a legitimate public critic, endowing it with an authority equivalent to that of the king. By the end of 18th century, the parterre was synonymous with the nation. Thomas Kaiser summarized the effect of this process well when he wrote, “the evolution of arts and letters...created an international tribunal of public judgement that it did not control.”\n\nIn 2002 Paul Friedland published his work \"Political Actors: Representative Bodies and Theatricality in the Age of the French Revolution\". Friedland disagrees with the “equation of the theatrical parterre with the nation” and with the way historians have “imbued” the parterre “with political culture.” More than Ravel, Friedland is highly critical of Habermas and writes that for historians of the theater the implications of Habermas’s model of the “public sphere” is “a reading of public opinion in the arts as if it were veiled political metaphor.” “Theater,” according to Friedland, “was not “really” about politics any more than politics was “really” about theater.” What theater and politics did share was the “same underlying representative process.”\n\n18th century transformations in modes of political representation paralleled new theories of representation on the stage. Friedland writes that Antoine-François Riccoboni's \"L'art du Theatre\" marked the shift in theories of theatrical representation, from a system where the performers' “representation of a character necessarily entailed the actor's actual physical experience of the character's emotions,” to a new system of representation where the actors performance was not 'true' but resembled what was true. In Friedland's words “...this new, artificial system depended, not on the actors' belief – or, as we tend to refer to it today, on the spectator's suspension of disbelief.” At the same time, as modes of representation shifted in the world of theater, parallels emerged in the representation of the king. In an absolutist monarchy the king was the source of his own legitimacy, whereas under the new system of representation the king's legitimacy came from the critical judgement of the individual.\n\nThus, Friedland's examination of theater audiences and the political sphere does not see parterre audiences as the basis of political culture in France. Rather the \"participatory\" parterre audiences of the 18th century reflected a particular mode of representation, just as the possibility of shaping a modern silent spectator emerged with new conditions of theatergoing that were dictated by changes in theories of representation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1593664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593664", "title": "Pemulwuy", "text": "Pemulwuy\n\nPemulwuy (also rendered as Pimbloy, Pemulvoy, Pemulwoy, Pemulwye, or sometimes by contemporary Europeans as Bimblewove or Bumbleway) (c. 1750 – 2 June 1802) was an Aboriginal Australian man born around 1750 in the area of Botany Bay in New South Wales. He is noted for his resistance to the European settlement of Australia which began with the arrival of the First Fleet in 1788. He is believed to have been a member of the Bidjigal (Bediagal) clan of the Eora people.. The Bidjigal people were the original inhabitants of Toongabbie and Parramatta in Sydney.\n\nPemulwuy lived near Botany Bay. Pemulwuy may have been a carradhy (healer). Pemulwuy would hunt meat and provide it to the food-challenged new colony in exchange for goods. However, in 1790 Pemulwuy began a twelve-year guerilla war against the British, which continued until his assassination. \n\nWhen Pemulwuy grew into manhood he became \"Bembul Wuyan\", which represents \"the earth and the crow\". According to historian Richard Green \"he wasn't very impressed with the mix of cultures. He preferred that we stayed within our own peoples.\" . Another name for him was \"Butu Wargun\" which means \"crow\".\n\nPemulwuy was born with a turned eye or other blemish in his left eye. According to historian Eric Willmot:\nNormally, a child that showed an obvious deformity would've been, well, people would have expected that child to be sent back, to be reborn again. It was generally thought that humans, like everything, came from the land. And that a woman, the actual act of conception, was a woman being infected by a child's spirit from the land. And that child grows within her. And so he was different and he became more different. He became better than everybody else. Whatever anyone else could do, Pemulwuy did it better. He could run further, he was one of the best, he could use a spear like no-one else could. And so, around him, was created an aura of difference. So much so that he was said to be a clever man. In an Aboriginal society, clever man is often a man who deals with the spiritual nature of things and sorcery even.His contemporary Colebe said that Pemulwuy's left foot was distinctive as it had been damaged by a club, perhaps to mark him as a carradhy (\"clever man\" or healer). The Kurdaitcha (ritual executioners and lawmen) of Central Australia similarly have a foot deliberately mutilated.\n\nOn 9 December 1790, a shooting party left for Botany Bay, including a sergeant of marines and three convicts, including Governor Phillip's gamekeeper John McIntyre. According to Watkin Tench:\nAbout one o’clock, the sergeant was awakened by a rustling noise in the bushes near him, and supposing it to proceed from a kangaroo, called to his comrades, who instantly jumped up. On looking about more narrowly, they saw two natives with spears in their hands, creeping towards them, and three others a little farther behind. As this naturally created alarm, McIntyre said, “don’t be afraid, I know them,” and immediately laying down his gun, stepped forward, and spoke to them in their own language. The Indians, finding they were discovered, kept slowly retreating, and McIntyre accompanied them about a hundred yards, talking familiarly all the while. One of them now jumped on a fallen tree and, without giving the least warning of his intention, launched his spear at McIntyre and lodged it in his left side. The person who committed this wanton act was described as a young man with a speck or blemish on his left eye. That he had been lately among us was evident from his being newly shaved.\nThe group was pursued by the settlers with muskets, but they escaped. McIntyre was taken back to the settlement, gravely wounded. Tench suspected that McIntyre had previously killed Aboriginal people, and noted the fear and hatred that the Aboriginal people, including Bennelong (an Aboriginal man who Governor Phillip had captured, in hopes of interaction with the Aboriginals) showed towards him.\n\nAn irate Governor Phillip ordered Lieutenant Tench to gather his company of marines and lead an expedition against the Bidjigal in retaliation for Pemulwuy's attack on McIntyre. He ordered that two Bidjigal were to be captured and ten killed; these ten were then to be beheaded and the heads returned to the settlement. Tench swiftly suggested an alternative and less bloodthirsty plan, that six Bidjigal be captured and brought to Sydney Cove but that none be killed out of hand.\n\nTench's proposal was accepted, and the expedition set out on 14 December in search of Pemulwuy and the Bidjigal tribe. The expedition was the largest military operation since the founding of the colony, comprising Tench, Lieutenants William Dawes and John Poulden, and 46 marines. However, despite three days of searching there was no sign of the Bidjigal. On 17 December Tench ordered a return to Sydney Cove to gather supplies. \n\nPemulwuy persuaded the Eora, Dharug and Tharawal people to join his campaign against the settlers\n. From 1792 Pemulwuy led raids on settlers from Parramatta, Georges River, Prospect, Toongabbie, Brickfield and Hawkesbury River. His most common tactic was to burn crops and kill livestock. In May 1795, Pemulwuy or one of his followers speared a convict near present-day Chippendale.\n\nIn December 1795, Pemulwuy and his warriors attacked a work party at Botany Bay which included Black Caesar. Caesar managed to crack Pemulwuy's skull and many thought he had killed him, but the warrior survived and escaped. But this critically injured him afterwards.\n\nDespite still having buckshot in his head and body, and wearing a leg-iron, Pemulwuy escaped from the hospital. This added to the belief that he was a \"carradhy\".\n\nPemulwuy recommenced his fighting against the British by November 1797. However his injuries had affected his ability as a fighter and his resistance was on a smaller and more sporadic scale for the rest of his life.\n\nConvicts William Knight and Thomas Thrush escaped and joined the aboriginal resistance.\n\nAccording to Richard Green, \"with simple spears, rocks, boomerangs, stones, he [Pemulwuy] defeated the British army that they sent here. Every single soldier except for Watkin Tench, that they sent in pursuit of Pemulwuy either walked back into the community with their saddle over their shoulders or they didn't make it back.\"\n\nGovernor Philip Gidley King issued an order on 22 November 1801 for bringing Pemulwuy in dead or alive, with an associated reward. The order attributed the killing of two men, the dangerous wounding of several, and a number of robberies to Pemulwuy.\n\nOn 2 June 1802 Pemulwuy was shot and killed by a blinded British sailor Henry Hacking, the first mate of the English ship .\n\n\"After being wounded, all the people believed that he was immune to British bullets,\" says Richard Green. \"So he'd stand out in front and, you know, stand right out in front of them and take them on, you know? So after 12 years, his time ran out. He got his shot and he took it.\"\n\nFollowing the death of Pemulwuy, Governor King wrote to Lord Hobart that on the death of Pemulwuy he was given his head by the Aboriginal people as Pemulwuy \"had been the cause of all that had happened\". The Governor issued orders with immediate effect to not \"molest or ill-treat any native\", and to re-admit them to the areas of Parramatta and Prospect from which they had been forcibly excluded.\n\nPemulwuy's head was preserved in spirits. It was sent to England to Sir Joseph Banks accompanied by a letter from Governor King, who wrote: \"Although a terrible pest to the colony, he was a brave and independent character.\"\n\nPemulway's son Tedbury continued the struggle for a number of years before being killed in 1810.\n\nRepatriation of the skull of Pemulwuy has been requested by Sydney Aboriginal people. It has not yet been located in order to be repatriated. In 2010 Prince William announced he would return Pemulwuy's skull to his Aboriginal relatives.\n\nThe Sydney suburb of Pemulwuy, New South Wales is named after him, as well as Pemulwuy Park in Redfern, New South Wales.\n\nIn the 1980s the band Redgum composed a song about Pemulwuy entitled \"Water and Stone\".\n\nThe first song on James Asher's 1996 new age album \"Feet In The Soil\" is entitled \"Pemulwuy\", and the last song is entitled \"Pemulwuy Returns\". Both feature didgeridoos.\n\nAustralian composer Paul Jarman composed a choral work entitled \"Pemulwuy\". It has become an Australian choral standard, and was performed by the Biralee Blokes in their victory in the ABC Choir of the Year 2006.\n\nIn 1987 Weldons published \"Pemulwuy: The Rainbow Warrior\" by Eric Willmot, a best-selling novel providing a fictionalised account using early colonial documents as source. Matilda Media re-released the book in 1994 \n\nThe redevelopment of The Block in the Sydney suburb of Redfern by the Aboriginal Housing Company has been called the Pemulwuy Project.\n\nIn 2008 Marlene Cummins released an eponymous song about Pemulwuy. This was later presented to Prince William along with a petition to bring Pemulwuy's head back to his people.\n\nIn 2009 a remote boxing game for the Wii console, Pemulwuy Dream Team, was developed.\n\nIn 2015 the National Museum of Australia installed a plaque honouring his role in Australian history as part of the \"Defining Moments\" project.\n\nIn 2017 a Sydney Ferries Emerald-class ferry was named \"Pemulwuy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49372020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49372020", "title": "Philippa Mein Smith", "text": "Philippa Mein Smith\n\nPhilippa Mein Smith is a New Zealand-Australian academic and historian who specialises in Australian history, New Zealand history, the history of Australia-New Zealand relations and health history.\n\nMein Smith completed a Bachelor of Commerce degree at the University of Canterbury in 1977, and worked briefly as an accountant before returning to the university for a postgraduate study. She graduated with a Master of Arts degree in History in 1983. Her thesis was titled \"The State and Maternity in New Zealand.\"\nMein Smith completed her Ph.D at the Australian National University in Canberra, in 1990; her thesis was titled \"Reformers, Mothers and Babies.\"\n\nFrom 1989 to 1992, Mein Smith was a lecturer in economic history at Flinders University. During this time she had a biography of her great-great-grandfather, William Mein Smith, published in the \"Dictionary of New Zealand Biography\". She then moved to a position in the History Department at the University of Canterbury, where she remained for 21 years.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2006, Mein Smith was the recipient of a Royal Society of New Zealand Marsden Fund Grant, awarded to her to study the historical development of connections between Australia and New Zealand. This project was known as the \"Anzac Neighbours\" project. As a result, Mein Smith and her colleague Peter Hempenstall established the New Zealand Australia Connections Research Centre (NZAC) at the University of Canterbury in 2005.\n\nIn 2008 the centre was replaced with a larger New Zealand Australia Research Centre (NZARC), with Mein Smith as the director. Its launch coincided with the 25th anniversary of the New Zealand-Australia Closer Economic Relations Agreement (CER) and was marked with a symposium jointly hosted by the university and the New Zealand Institute of International Affairs.\n\nIn March 2013, Mein Smith took up a position as Professor of History at the University of Tasmania.\n"}
{"id": "22906640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22906640", "title": "Phillip Bradley", "text": "Phillip Bradley\n\nPhillip Bradley (born 18 May 1955) is an Australian military historian who has written five books as well as numerous articles for \"Wartime\" and \"After the Battle\" magazine. He has been described as \"One of the finest chroniclers of the Australian Army's role in the New Guinea campaign\".\n\nBradley has travelled many Australian battlefields, including sites in Papua New Guinea, Turkey and France.\n\n\n\nBradley has received a number of grants from the Australian Army History Unit, these include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1713168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1713168", "title": "Postal order", "text": "Postal order\n\nA postal order is a financial instrument usually intended for sending money through the mail. It is purchased at a post office and is payable at another post office to the named recipient. A small fee for the service, known as poundage, is paid by the purchaser. In the United States, this is known as a postal money order. Postal orders are not legal tender, but a type of promissory note, similar to a cheque.\n\nThe postal order is a direct descendent of the money order, which had been established by a private company in 1792. During World War I and World War II, British postal orders were temporarily declared legal tender to save paper and labour. Postal orders can be bought and redeemed at post offices in the UK, although a crossed postal order must be paid into a bank account. Until April 2006 they came in fixed denominations but due to increased popularity they were redesigned to make them more flexible and secure. They now have the payee and value added at the time of purchase, making them more like a cheque. The fee for using this form of payment falls into one of three bands - details are available on the Post Office website. The maximum value of postal order available is £250.00 with the fee capped at £12.50.\n\nDespite competition from cheques and electronic funds transfer, postal orders continue to appeal to customers, especially as a form of payment for shopping on the Internet, as they are drawn on the Post Office's accounts so a vendor can be certain that they will not bounce. They also enable those without a bank account, including minors, to make small financial transactions without the need for cash. Postal workers in the United Kingdom use voided or cancelled orders in their training.\n\nThe use of postal orders (or postal notes in some countries) was extended to most countries that are now part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, plus to a few foreign countries such as Jordan, Egypt and Thailand.\n\nUnited States Postal Money Orders appear facially as a draft against an account held by the United States Postal Service, and the United States Postal Service requires a purchaser to know, in advance, where presentment of the instrument will occur. Only special, more expensive United States International Postal Money Orders may be presented abroad. In the United States, international money orders are pink and domestic money orders are green.\n\nSee also Postal orders of Canada.\n\nCanada had its own postal orders (called Postal Notes) from 1898 until 1 April 1949, when these were discontinued and withdrawn.\n\nA British Forces Post Office in Suffield, Alberta was issuing British Postal Orders as late as July 2006.\n\nPostal orders are gaining in popularity as collectibles, especially among numismatists who collect banknotes.\n\nThere is an active numismatic organisation in the UK called the Postal Order Society that was established in 1985 with members both domestically and overseas. They hold twice-yearly postal auctions of postal orders and related material from across the British Commonwealth.\n\nA Defence canteen order was a variant of a postal order used in Australia during World War II. Purchased at a post office, it was payable to an enlisted person in goods from a canteen rather than being a cash instrument.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13302295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13302295", "title": "Postmodern social construction of nature", "text": "Postmodern social construction of nature\n\nThe postmodern social construction of nature is a theorem or speculation of postmodernist continental philosophy that poses an alternative critique of previous mainstream, Promethean discourse about environmental sustainability and ecopolitics.\n\nWhereas traditional criticisms of environmentalism come from the more conservative \"right\" of politics, leftist critiques of nature pioneered by postmodernist constructionism highlight the need to recognise \"the other\". The implicit assumption made by theorists like Wapner refer to it as a new \"response to ecocriticism [which] would require critics to acknowledge the ways in which they themselves silence nature and then to respect the sheer otherness of the non-human world.\"\n\nCritics argue that, by capturing the nonhuman world within its own conceptual domain, postmodern exerts precisely the urge toward mastery that it criticizes in modernity. Thus, postmodern cultural criticism deepens the modernist urge toward mastery by eliminating the ontological weight of the nonhuman world. \"What else could it mean to assert that there is no such thing as nature?\". The issue becomes an existentialist query about whether nature can exist in a humanist critique, and whether we can discern the \"others'\" views in relation to our actions on their behalf. This is referred to as the Wapner Paradox.\n\nDavid Demeritt's typology of the social construction of nature looks at the idea from several standpoints. He seeks to clarify the meaning through exploring the extent of the different uses applied to the term.\n\nOther examinations of the social construction of Nature, from a postmodern perspective, include:\n\nMarshall, A, (2002) The Unity of Nature, Imperial College Press\n\nSoule. ME, et al., eds, (1995) Reinventing Nature: Responses To Postmodern Deconstruction, Island Press.\n\nWhite, DR. (1997) Postmodern Ecologies, SUNY Press.\n"}
{"id": "34549238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34549238", "title": "Rebecca Fromer", "text": "Rebecca Fromer\n\nRebecca Camhi Fromer (c. 1927 – January 1, 2012) was an American playwright, historian and poet. Fromer co-founded the Judah L. Magnes Museum of Berkeley, California, in 1961 with her husband, Seymour Fromer. The museum, which is now called the Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life and became part of the University of California, Berkeley in January 2012, houses more than 15,000 Judaica artifacts and manuscripts, the third largest collection of its kind in the United States.\n\nFromer was born in New York City and raised in Los Angeles. She moved to Oakland, California, with her husband in 1953.\n\nFromer authored and co-authored several historical books and articles on Jewish history. Her books authored included \"Sonderkommando\", \"Bridge of Sorrow, Bridge of Hope\", \"The Holocaust Odyssey of Daniel Bennahmias\", \"The House by the Sea: A Portrait of the Holocaust in Greece\" and \"Rumkowski and the Orphans of Lodz\". Fromer was familiar with Sephardic culture and could speak the Ladino language.\n\nFromer, a resident of Berkeley, died on January 1, 2012, in San Francisco at the age of 84. She was survived by her daughter, Mira Z. Amiras, and two grandchildren, Michael Zussman and Rayna Savrosa. Her husband, Seymour Fromer, who co-founded the museum with her, died in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "58743741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743741", "title": "Settlement archaeology", "text": "Settlement archaeology\n\nSettlement archaeology (German:\"Siedlungsarchäologie\") is a branch of modern archaeology. It investigates former settlements and deserted areas, forms of housing and settlements, and the prehistoric settlement of entire regions. For this purpose, the forms, functions and developments of individual habitats and settlement systems are explored by means of archaeological surveys and excavation. Settlement archaeology has developed in close cooperation with settlement history and settlement geography. Settlement sequences of several centuries or millennia are explored in individual areas. Changes and consistent elements can be studied and compared with other researched settlements. Archaeological methods are used including archaeobotany and -zoology and spectroscopic phosphate analysis to resolve archaeological questions, mostly in the field of prehistory and early history.\n\nThe term settlement archaeology initially referred to a research methodology whose most important exponent was Gustaf Kossinna, who developed his \"settlement archaeology method\" beginning in 1887. According to Kossinna and his disciples, cultures, cultural areas and, ultimately, settlement areas of ethnic groups can be deduced through types and their assemblages. This equation of \"archaeological culture\", ethnicity, and race led, especially during National Socialist rule, to a fateful and alarming combination of archaeological research with racial ideology. One of the core tenets of Kossina's teaching was that sharply defined archaeological cultural areas coincide at all times with particular peoples (\"Völkern\") or tribes. When asked about the \"ethnic interpretation\" of prehistoric finds, answers were sought by linking \"archaeological\" with \"historical\" methods. Kossinna said that the basis of his \"settlement archaeological method\" was that it makes use of analogy which enlightens dimly-illuminated ancient times by inferences from the better-known present or even ages which, though still ancient, are marked by rich tradition. It illuminates prehistoric times by those which stand in the light of history. In the Postwar Era the empirical collecting of facts and their chronological and spatial arrangement was declared the main goal of research, which set the final course for today's German archaeology. Theoretical approaches moved to the background.\n\nSince the 1920s more and more works have emerged in which individual regions have been archaeologically researched. At the same time, more emphasis was placed on investigating the settlements themselves. Researchers such as Gerhard Bersu, Hermann Stoll, and Robert Rudolf Schmidt, who worked mainly in southern Germany, were among this pioneering phase of modern settlement archeology. The excavations at the Federsee, for example, involved the natural sciences at an early stage (pollen analysis (Palynology), moor geology and geomorphology, dendrochronology, radiocarbon dating, archaeozoology and archaeobotany, paleoclimatology, material research, etc.). However, especially during the Third Reich under the direction of Hans Reinerth, the ideological abuse of settlement archaeology was particularly evident. In the end, however, important impulses for the establishment and methodical definition came mainly from the north: the excavations in Haithabu (Hedeby as well as the investigations at Wurten on the North Sea coast such as Feddersen Wierde near Cuxhaven by Werner Haarnagel were seminal. The archaeologist Herbert Jankuhn is associated with the formulation of this redefinition of settlement archeology. Jankuhn was a proponent of Kossinna's methods of settlement archeology during the period of in National Socialism.\n\nMore recently the focus has increasingly been on the individual settlement and the aanalysis of landscapes and territories, mostly using geographic information systems (GIS). Today the term landscape archaeology is preferred. The long-standing role of natural sciences in settlement archeology has recently further increased, and geography, geology, zoology, botany, and anthropology have been increasingly used in the field of soil science, which is reflected, for example, in the field of geoarchaeology.\n"}
{"id": "44464696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44464696", "title": "Songze culture", "text": "Songze culture\n\nThe Songze Culture was a Neolithic culture that existed between 3800 and 3300 BCE in the Lake Tai area near Shanghai.\n\nThree radiocarbon dates were taken from Songze culture layers at Jiangli near Lake Tai. Two of the dates were obtained from charred rice grains, returning dates of 3360-3090 BCE and 3540-3370 BCE. The third date was taken from knotgrass and produced a date of 3660-3620 BCE. Although it is accepted to be the successor of the Majiabang culture, others have suggested that Songze was a successor phase to the Hemudu culture.\n\nIn 1957, archaeologists discovered a site north of Songze Village near Zhaoxiang Town in Shanghai's Qingpu District. Excavations have been conducted throughout 1961, 1974-1976, 1987, 1994-1995, and 2004. These revealed three cultural layers: the most recent had pottery from the Spring and Autumn period; the middle layer was a cemetery with 148 graves and numerous artefacts; the oldest layer belonged to a village of the Majiabang culture.\n\n92 graves have been excavated from a Songze cemetery at Nanhebang.\n\nThe Pishan cemetery contained 61 burials.\n\nDongshan Village is located near Jingang Town 18 km west of Zhangjiagang. It was discovered in 1989 and has undergone excavations by the Suzhou Museum (1989-1990), followed by two large rescue excavations led by the Nanjing Museum in 2008-2009. The site is divided into three areas: area 1 was a small cemetery of 27 burials, all of which had different quantities of grave goods, which has been used to suggest the existence of a stratified society; area 2 was a residential comprising five buildings in the centre of the site; area 3 was another burial ground in the site's west, with 10 tombs. \n\n"}
{"id": "6304351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6304351", "title": "Succession (geology)", "text": "Succession (geology)\n\nIn geology a succession is series of strata or rock units in chronological order. Rock successions can be seen in cross-sections through rock, for example in a road cutting or cliff. With sedimentary layers of rocks, newer units will be above older units. \n\n"}
{"id": "1107605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107605", "title": "Sullivans Cove", "text": "Sullivans Cove\n\nSullivans Cove is on the River Derwent adjacent to the Hobart CBD in Tasmania. \n\nIt was the site of initial European settlement in the area, and the location of the earlier components of the Port of Hobart.\n\nThe Cove was the initial landing site of what is now the city of Hobart. It was founded on 21 February 1804 by Lieutenant Governor David Collins, who travelled to the shore via what was then a rocky island named Hunter Island. The connection to the shore was developed and is now known as Hunter Street. The island now has a building directly above it.\n\nAlthough the first European settlement in the state was further up the river at Risdon Cove by John Bowen a year earlier, that settlement was abandoned and relocated to join the Sullivans Cove settlers.\n\nCollins named Sullivans Cove after John Sullivan, Permanent Under Secretary to the Colonies.\nBy 1916, several piers had been constructed: from north to south:\n\nIn 1933, the Argyle Street and Elizabeth Street Piers were replaced with a single concrete-reinforced structure at Elizabeth Street Pier.\n\nIn 1947 there was a proposal to replace Queens and Kings Pier with an extra wide pier, but this was never realised.\n\nIn 1948, Ocean Pier was destroyed by a fire.\n\nKings Pier was demolished and replaced with a marina for commercial and private craft, around 1970. This marina increased in size in 2003.\n\nSullivans Cove holds large historical and sentimental value for the city. The cove area itself is now known as Macquarie Wharf and serves as the main port for the city. Many of the original buildings along the esplanade are still standing.\n\nThe University of Tasmania's School of the Arts building is based on Hunter Street.\n\nA serviced apartment building, \"ZeroDavey\", has drawn criticism for its Davey Street facade, being condemned by the local community as aesthetically unpleasing consisting of a grey concrete prefabricated wall with jarring blue metal ledges, as opposed to the rest of the building having a sandstone facade to blend with the heritage Hunter Street buildings next door.\n\nDuring 2004 there has also been discussions about a proposal for a tourist tram from Sullivans Cove to the CBD, and possibly to North Hobart.\n\nAn international design competition was held for the Hobart waterfront in 2006. It attracted 280 entries from over 50 countries. Three winners were announced on January 26, 2007.\n\nWith the change in the cove's primary activity from a freight port to tourism and recreational uses, many of the sheds in the area have been either re-purposed or replaced – notably, all buildings keep the former gabled roof architecture. These buildings include:\n\nAdditional development in the immediate area include a $100m redevelopment of Parliament Square, behind Parliament House.\n"}
{"id": "6366885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6366885", "title": "Tadeusz Czacki", "text": "Tadeusz Czacki\n\nTadeusz Czacki (28 August 1765 in Poryck, Volhynia – 8 February 1813 in Dubno) was a Polish historian, pedagogue and numismatist. Czacki played an important part in the Enlightenment in Poland.\n\nCzacki was born in Poryck in Volhynia, Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, now Pavlivka in Ukraine. When Prince Adam Czartoryski was placed at the head of the educational district of Vilnius, Czacki was appointed school inspector of Volhynia, Podolia, and the Ukraine. An opponent of the Jesuits, he combated their work in the field of pedagogy, and on one occasion raised by public subscription the sum of two millions of Polish florins to insure the existence of the gymnasiums in Vinnitsa and Kiev. In 1805 he founded the high school in Kremenetz, Volhynia (the Liceum Krzemienieckie). After Czacki's death his heart was deposited in one of the halls of this Volhynian school, under the inscription \"Ubi thesaurus tuus, ibi est cor tuum\" (Where your treasury lies, there lies your heart). He discovered what was thought at the time to be the grave of Copernicus; however, controversy over its location continued long afterwards. He also was a panel member of the Komisja Edukacji Narodowej, founded by Stanisław August Poniatowski in 1773 and considered to be the world's first ministry of education.\n\nFrom 1786 to 1792 he worked for the Polish Commission of the Treasury and was responsible for supervising Jewish affairs in the country. During this time and afterwards, he worked for the emancipation of Jews in Poland. Exemption from the poll-tax was granted in 1775 to those who would apply themselves to agriculture, and by 1787, owing to Czacki's efforts while in the treasury (see his report of 1787 on the Ruthenian and Ukrainian provinces), he had the satisfaction of seeing a few scores of families enjoying that privilege. Furthermore, he co-wrote the Constitution of 3 May 1791, and founded the Towarzystwo Przyjaciół Nauk (\"Society of Friends of Science\").\n\nIn 1786 he was awarded the Order of Saint Stanislaus, and in 1792 the Order of the White Eagle.\n\nCzacki's \"Rozprawa o Zydach\" (Discourse on the Jews), first published in Wilna 1807, and translated into Russian by Basil Anastaszewicz, passed through several editions, and was published finally in \"Dzieła Tadeusza Czackiego\" (Works of Tadeusz Czacki), edited by Edward Raczyński, Posen, 1845 (iii. 138-270). For the history of the Jewish institutions, Czacki, who did not know Hebrew, availed himself of the only sources open to him; namely, Bartolocci and Ugolino. After relating the early history of the Jews, Czacki describes their situation among the Arabs, Italians, Spaniards, French, Germans, and Hungarians. He tells of their entrance into Poland in the twelfth century; of their intellectual condition; of their government and laws; and of the persecutions to which they were subjected.\n\nHe also wrote a short discourse on the Karaites (\"Dzieła Tadeusza Czackiego\", iii. 271-285) which attempts to explain, on the basis of the sources accessible to the author and referred to above, \"what the Karaites are, and wherein they chiefly differ from other Jews; when their separation occurred; and in what countries they dwell.\"\n\nCzcki's, who himself had been interested in Lithuanian language published a work on law in a two volumes \"About Lithuanian and Polish laws, their spirit, their origins and about things discussed in the first Lithuanian Statute of the year 1529\" , explaining differences of the two nations within the former Commonwealth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48602181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48602181", "title": "Te Kotahitanga", "text": "Te Kotahitanga\n\nThe Kotahitanga movement was an autonomous Māori Parliament convened annually in New Zealand from 1892 until 1902. Though not recognised by the New Zealand Government, the Māori Parliament was an influential body while it lasted. By 1902 its role was largely superseded by the Māori Councils established by James Carroll and Hone Heke Ngapua through the Māori Councils Act 1900. As a result, Kotahitanga members unanimously voted for its dissolution at the 10th Parliament at Waiōmatatini in 1902. \n\nTe Kotahitanga was distinct from Te Kauhanganui, the Māori parliament established by the Kingitanga movement in the late 1880s, because it called for the union of all Māori tribes, whereas Te Kauhanganui was convened by and for the hapu of the Waikato-Tainui region. In 1895 the two movements considered merging, but this ultimately failed.\n\nThe first formal session of Te Kotahitanga was held in June 1892 at Waipatu in Heretaunga. It was hosted by the former Member of Parliament for the Eastern Maori electorate, Henare Tomoana. 96 representatives sat in the \"Whare o Raro\" and 44 chiefs sat in the \"Whare Ariki\". Tomoana was elected Speaker of the House because his tenure in parliament gave him the experience necessary to guide debates and maintain order. Hoani Te Whatahoro Jury was elected Chairman, the formal head of the \"Whare o Raro\", and Hamiora Mangakahia was elected premier, a position that made him the chief spokesperson for the movement.\n\nIn 1893 the second session of Te Kotahitanga was also convened at Waipatu, though this session was poorly attended. Only 58 representatives sat in the \"Whare o Raro\". At that time, Mangakahia had fallen out of favour with many of the movement's representatives and was not returned as premier. Hoani Te Whatahoro Jury was elected in his place.\nThe 1894 session took place at Pakirikiri, near Gisborne. The session, hosted by local chief Otene Pitau, was well attended and lasted for over a month.\nThe 1895 session of Te Kotahitanga was convened at Ohinemotu in Rotorua. Hamiora Mangakahia was re-elected for a second term as premier, and the role of speaker was given to Mohi Te Atahikoia of Ngāti Kahungunu. In the course of this session, Henare Tomoana accused Mangakahia of financial mismanagement of Te Kotahitanga during his first term as premier, and attempted to force his resignation. But Mangakahia was able to demonstrate in rebuttal that the mismanagement of Kotahitanga funds had actually developed during the term of his successor, Hoani Te Whatahoro Jury. The session is also notable as the setting for a potential merger of Te Kotahitanga with the Kingitanga movement. Mahuta Tāwhiao, the new King of the Waikato-Tainui tribes, was visited by representatives from the 1895 sitting of Te Kotahitanga, who invited him to sign the Kotahitanga deed of union, calling for the political union of all Māori tribes. Mahuta appointed a committee to consider the proposal, but was undermined by Waikato chief Tupu Atanatiu Taingakawa Te Waharoa, who circulated a rival deed of union calling for all Māori tribes to unite under the Kingitanga.\n\nThe lower house, or \"Whare o Raro\", had 96 members, elected at large from electorates defined according to tribal affiliation. The upper house, or \"Whare Ariki\", was composed of 44 paramount chiefs elected by the members of the \"Whare o Raro\". 127 representatives filled the 140 positions in both houses at the parliament's first sitting at Waipatu Marae in 1892, as 13 chiefs were elected to both houses.\n"}
{"id": "48830888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48830888", "title": "Uma Chakravarti", "text": "Uma Chakravarti\n\nUma Chakravarti is an Indian historian and feminist who taught at the Miranda House, University of Delhi. Her scholarship focused on Buddhism, early Indian history, 19th century history, and contemporary issues. She has also been an activist associated with the women's movement and the movement for democratic rights, participating in several fact-finding committees including the `International Tribunal on Justice for Gujarat'. A leading scholar of feminist history-writing in India, she has been called the `founding mother' of the Indian women's movement.\n\nUma Chakravarti was born in Delhi on 20 August 1941. Her father was a civil servant, originally from Palghat in Kerala. Uma studied in the Delhi Public School and, later, Mount Carmel College, Bangalore. Afterwards, she studied Law at the College of Law, Bangalore and simultaneously completed a Master's in History from the Benaras Hindu University.\n\nChakravarti joined the Miranda House, the premier women's college in Delhi University, in 1966. She worked there till 1988, working on Buddhism, early Indian history, the 19th century history and contemporary issues. She authored 7 books and over 50 research articles.\n\nSince the 1970s, Chakravarti has been associated with the women's movement and the movement for democratic rights. She participated in several fact-finding teams to investigate human rights violations, communal riots and state repression.\n\nIn most recent work, she has directed two films, one on the life of a child bride \"Subbulakshmi\" who went on to participate in the Indian independence movement and the second on the writer \"Mythili Sivaraman\" who worked with labouring men and women, documenting their oppressions.\n\nJawaharlal Nehru University historian Kumkum Roy has edited a volume of scholarly essays in Chakravarti's honour, stating that she had inspired generations of teachers, students and friends. Ashley Tellis from City University of New York adds that she had a profound influence on the lives and careers of scores of young scholars and activists, playing the role of a `founding mother' of Indian feminist history-writing as well as the Indian women's movement.\n\nUma is married to Anand Chakravarti, a sociologist. Together they have a daughter Upali and son Siddhartha. She lives in Delhi along with her husband and daughter.\n\n\nChakravarti's \"Social Dimensions of Early Buddhism\", based on her doctoral thesis, is regarded as a classic piece of work, forming mandatory reading for all students of early Indian history. Chakravarti based her analysis on the Buddhist texts written in Pali, the language spoken by the commoners in early India, ... In her later work, she built on this research to reformulate the issues of social stratification, labour, renunciation and domesticity in early India, with a firm focus on gender, caste and class.\n\n\"Everyday Lives, Everyday Histories\" is a compilation of 14 essays derived from three decades of work on the history of early India, previously published in various journals and collections. Scholar Shonaleeka Kaul states that the anthology still retains freshness because it represents a \"new take on early Indian history,\" presenting an understanding of the past beyond the vantage of the elite and the orthodox (the \"Kings and Brahmanas\"). It is the history of the people on the \"margins,\" where margins is translated as \"labouring groups including women who labour and women as a wider category.\" The Introductory chapter offers an account of Chakravarti's own journey through the women's movement as well as her production of India's first feminism-informed histories.\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55956633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55956633", "title": "Wendy R. Childs", "text": "Wendy R. Childs\n\nWendy R. Childs (born March 1943) is emeritus professor of later medieval history at the University of Leeds. She is a specialist in the economic history of medieval Europe and the international trade of England in the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "397442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397442", "title": "Will Hutton", "text": "Will Hutton\n\nWilliam Nicolas Hutton (born 21 May 1950) is a British political economist, academic administrator, and journalist. He is currently Principal of Hertford College, University of Oxford, and Chair of the Big Innovation Centre, an initiative from the Work Foundation (formerly the Industrial Society), having been chief executive of the Work Foundation from 2000 to 2008. He was formerly editor-in-chief for \"The Observer\". He is widely known for his advocacy of centre-left policies, criticisms of the neoliberal economic consensus, and his long association with key members and policies of the Labour Party.\n\nAlthough born in Woolwich, where his father had worked at the Royal Ordnance factory (Royal Arsenal), Hutton began his education in Scotland. He went to Bishopton Primary School in Bishopton, Renfrewshire, then Paisley Grammar School when he was eight. His father moved to Bromley, then in Kent, and he attended Southborough Lane County Primary School in Petts Wood.\n\nHutton studied at Chislehurst and Sidcup Grammar School in Sidcup, where he was introduced to A level economics by a teacher, Garth Pinkney. He only got average marks at O-level, but enjoyed the sixth form more, studying geography, history and economics. He organised the school tennis team. After studying sociology and economics at the University of Bristol gaining a BSocSc (2.1), he started his career as an equity salesman for a stock broker, before leaving to study for an MBA at INSEAD at Fontainebleau near Paris.\n\nHutton moved on to work in television and radio, spending ten years with the BBC, including working as economics correspondent for \"Newsnight\" from 1983 to 1988, where he replaced Peter Hobday. He spent four years as editor-in-chief at \"The Observer\" and director of the Guardian National Newspapers before joining the Industrial Society, now known as The Work Foundation, as chief executive in 2000. In 2010 he was criticised for his handling of the Industrial Society by a number of publications including The Sunday Times and Private Eye, for having sold the company's \"family jewels\". The Work Foundation ceased to be financially viable and was sold to Lancaster University.\n\nAs well as a columnist, author and chief executive, Hutton is a governor of London School of Economics, a visiting professor at the University of Manchester Business School and the University of Bristol, a visiting fellow at Mansfield College Oxford, a shareholder of the Scott Trust Limited which owns the Guardian Media Group, rapporteur of the Kok Group and a member of the Design Council's Millennium Commission. In March 2011, he was appointed as Principal of Hertford College, Oxford, taking up the post later in the year. He continues to be associated with the Work Foundation as chair-designate of a major new initiative on innovation. He sits on the European Advisory Board of Princeton University Press.\n\nAs an author, his best known and most influential works are \"The State We're In\" (an economic and political look at Britain in the 1990s from a social democratic point of view) and \"The World We're In\", in which he expanded his focus to include the relationship between the United States and Europe, emphasising cultural and social differences between the two blocs and analysing the UK as sitting between the two.\n\nHutton's book \"The Writing on the Wall\" was released in the UK in January 2007. The book examines Western concerns and responses to the rise of China and the emerging global division of labour, and argues that the Chinese economy is running up against a set of increasingly unsustainable contradictions that could have a damaging universal fallout. On 18 February 2007, Hutton was a featured guest in BBC's \"Have Your Say\" programme discussing the implications of China's growth. The analysis in his books is characterised by a support for the European Union and its potential, alongside a disdain for what he calls American conservatism – defined, among other factors, as a certain attitude to markets, property and the social contract. In 1992, he won the What The Papers Say award for Political Journalist of the Year. In 2003 he was made an honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) by the University of Bristol.\n\nHis latest book, \"Them and Us: Changing Britain – Why We Need a Fair Society\", was published by Little, Brown.\n\nHutton married Jane Atkinson, the daughter of a neurosurgeon, in 1978, and lives in London. They have two daughters and a son. His wife was a director of a property development company called First Premise based in Richmond upon Thames, which she founded in 1987. Jane was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in December 2013, and died in February 2016. Hutton calls himself an agnostic.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301899", "title": "Young Earth creationism", "text": "Young Earth creationism\n\nYoung Earth creationism (YEC) is a form of creationism, a religious belief, which holds that the universe, Earth, and all life on Earth were created by direct acts of God less than 10,000 years ago. Its primary adherents are Christians who subscribe to a literal interpretation of the creation narrative in the Bible's Book of Genesis and believe that God created the Earth in six 24-hour days. In contrast to YEC, old Earth creationism (OEC) is the belief in a metaphorical interpretation of the Book of Genesis and the scientifically determined estimated ages of the Earth and universe.\n\nSince the mid-20th century, young Earth creationists—starting with Henry Morris (1918–2006)—have devised and promoted a pseudoscientific explanation called \"creation science\" as a basis for a religious belief in a supernatural, geologically recent creation. Contemporary YEC movements arose in protest to the scientific consensus, established by numerous scientific disciplines, which demonstrates that the age of the universe is around 13.8 billion years, the formation of the Earth happened around 4.5 billion years ago, and the first appearance of life on Earth was at least 3.5 billion years ago.\n\nA 2017 Gallup creationism survey found 38 percent of adults in the United States held the view that \"God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years\" when asked for their views on the origin and development of human beings, which Gallup noted was the lowest level in 35 years. This level of support could be even lower when poll results are adjusted after comparison with other polls with questions that more specifically account for uncertainty and ambivalence.\n\nThe first major comprehensive draft of Genesis was composed by the Yahwist in the late 7th or the 6th century BC, during the Babylonian captivity, with later additions made by the priestly source in the post-exilic period.\n\nYoung Earth creationists have claimed that their view has its earliest roots in ancient Judaism, citing, for example, the commentary on Genesis by Ibn Ezra (c. 1089–1164). Shai Cherry of Vanderbilt University notes that modern Jewish theologians have generally rejected such literal interpretations of the written text, and that even Jewish commentators who oppose some aspects of science generally accept scientific evidence that the Earth is much older.\n\nCalculations based on the Septuagint have traditionally dated creation to around 5500 BC, while the Samaritan Torah produces a date around 4300 BC, and the Masoretic a date around 4000 BC. Many of the earliest Christians who followed the Septuagint calculated the date of creation to be around 5500 BC, and Christians up to the Middle Ages continued to use this rough estimate: Clement of Alexandria (5592 BC), Sextus Julius Africanus (5501 BC), Eusebius (5228 BC), Jerome (5199 BC) Hippolytus of Rome (5500 BC), Theophilus of Antioch (5529 BC), Sulpicius Severus (5469 BC), Isidore of Seville (5336 BC), Panodorus of Alexandria (5493 BC), Maximus the Confessor (5493 BC), George Syncellus (5492 BC) and Gregory of Tours (5500 BC). The Byzantine calendar has traditionally dated the creation of the world to 1 September 5509 BC, María de Ágreda and her followers to 5199 BC, while the early Ethiopian Church (as revealed in the \"Book of Aksum\") to 5493 BC. Bede was one of the first to break away from the standard Septuagint date for the creation and in his work \"De Temporibus\" (\"On Time\") (completed in 703 AD) dated the creation to 18 March 3952 BC but was accused of heresy at the table of Bishop Wilfrid, because his chronology was contrary to accepted calculations of around 5500 BC.\n\nAfter the Masoretic text was published, dating creation around 4000 BC became common, and was received with wide support. Proposed calculations of the date of creation, using the Masoretic from the 10th century – 18th century include: Marianus Scotus (4192 BC), Maimonides (4058 BC), Henri Spondanus (4051 BC), Benedict Pereira (4021 BC), Louis Cappel (4005 BC), James Ussher (4004 BC), Augustin Calmet (4002 BC), Isaac Newton (4000 BC), Johannes Kepler (27 April, 3977 BC) [based on his book \"Mysterium\"], Petavius (3984 BC), Theodore Bibliander (3980 BC), Christen Sørensen Longomontanus (3966 BC), Melanchthon (3964 BC), Martin Luther (3961 BC), John Lightfoot (3960 BC), Cornelius Cornelii a Lapide (3951 BC) Joseph Justus Scaliger (3949 BC), Christoph Helvig (3947 BC), Gerardus Mercator (3928 BC), Matthieu Brouard (3927 BC), Benito Arias Montano (3849 BC), Andreas Helwig (3836 BC), David Gans (3761 BC) and Gershom ben Judah (3754 BC).\n\nAmong the Masoretic creation estimates or calculations for the date of creation Ussher's specific chronology dating the creation to 4004 BC became the most accepted and popular, mainly because this specific date was attached to the King James Bible. The youngest ever recorded date of creation within the historic Jewish or Christian traditions is 3616 BC, by Yom-Tov Lipmann Heller in the 17th century while the oldest proposed date was 6984 BC by Alfonso X of Castile. However some contemporary or more recent proponents of Young Earth Creationism have taken this figure back further by several thousands of years by proposing significant gaps in the genealogies in chapters 5 and 11 of the Book of Genesis. Harold Camping for example dated the creation to 11,013 BC, while Christian Charles Josias Bunsen in the 19th century dated the creation to 20,000 BC.\n\nA number of prominent early Church Fathers and Christian writers, including Origen and Augustine, did not believe that the creation myth in Genesis depicted ordinary solar days and read creation history as an allegory as well as being theologically true. Several early Jews also followed an allegorical interpretation of Genesis, including most notably Philo (\"On the Creation\", III.13).\n\nThe Protestant reformation hermeneutic inclined some of the Reformers, including John Calvin and Martin Luther, and later Protestants toward a literal reading of the Bible as translated, believing in an ordinary day, and maintaining this younger-Earth view.\n\nAn Earth that was thousands of years old remained the dominant view during the Early Modern Period (1500–1800) and is found typically referenced in the works of famous poets and playwrights of the era, including William Shakespeare:\n\nSupport for an Earth that was created thousands of years ago declined among the scientists and philosophers from the 18th century onwards with the development of the Age of Enlightenment, the scientific revolution, and new scientific discoveries. In particular, discoveries in geology required an Earth that was much older than thousands of years, and proposals such as Abraham Gottlob Werner's Neptunism attempted to incorporate what was understood from geological investigations into a coherent description of Earth's natural history. James Hutton, now regarded as the father of modern geology, went further and opened up the concept of deep time for scientific inquiry. Rather than accepting that the Earth was deteriorating from a primal state, he maintained that the Earth was infinitely old. Hutton stated that:\n\nHutton's main line of argument was that the tremendous displacements and changes he was seeing did not happen in a short period of time by means of catastrophe, but that the incremental processes of uplift and erosion happening on the Earth in the present day had caused them. As these processes were very gradual, the Earth needed to be ancient, in order to allow time for the changes to occur. While his ideas of Plutonism were hotly contested, scientific inquiries on competing ideas of catastrophism pushed back the age of the Earth into the millions of years – still much younger than commonly accepted by modern scientists, but a great change from the literalist view of an Earth that was only a few thousand years old.\n\nHutton's ideas, called uniformitarianism or gradualism, were popularized by Sir Charles Lyell in the early 19th century. The energetic advocacy and rhetoric of Lyell led to the public and scientific communities largely accepting an ancient Earth. By this time, the Reverends William Buckland, Adam Sedgwick and other early geologists had abandoned their earlier ideas of catastrophism related to a biblical flood and confined their explanations to local floods. By the 1830s, mainstream science had abandoned a young Earth as a serious hypothesis.\n\nJohn H. Mears was one such scholar who proposed several theories varying from a mix of long/indefinite periods with moments of creation to a day-age theory of indefinite 'days'. He subscribed to the latter theory (indefinite days) and found support from the side of Yale professor James Dwight Dana, one of the fathers of Mineralogy, who wrote a paper consisting of four articles named 'Science and the Bible' on the topic. With the acceptance by many biblical scholars of a reinterpretation of Genesis 1 in the light of the breakthrough results of Lyell, and supported by a number of renowned (Christian) scientific scholars, a new hurdle was taken in the future acceptance of Developmentalism (based on Darwin's Natural selection).\n\nThe decline of support for a biblically literal young Earth during the 19th century was opposed by first the scriptural geologists and then by the founders of the Victoria Institute.\n\nThe rise of fundamentalist Christianity at the start of the 20th century saw a renewed interest in proposals that the Earth was thousands of years old, as a part of the movement's rejection of evolution. In 1923, George McCready Price, a Seventh-day Adventist, wrote \"The New Geology\", a book partly inspired by the book \"Patriarchs and Prophets\" in which Seventh-day Adventist prophet Ellen G. White described the impact of the Great Flood on the shape of the Earth. Although not an accredited geologist, Price's writings, which were based on reading geological texts and documents rather than field or laboratory work, provide an explicitly fundamentalist perspective on geology. The book attracted a small following, with its advocates almost all being Lutheran pastors and Seventh-day Adventists in America. Harry Rimmer was another prominent exponent of similar views, at least during some of his evangelizing career (Rimmer appears to have also subscribed to \"gap creationism\", and a local flood, at least at some times).\n\nIn the 1950s, Price's work came under severe criticism, particularly by Bernard Ramm in his book \"The Christian View of Science and Scripture\". Together with J. Laurence Kulp, a geologist and in fellowship with the Plymouth Brethren, and other scientists, Ramm influenced Christian organizations such as the American Scientific Affiliation (ASA) in not supporting flood geology.\n\nPrice's work was subsequently adapted and updated by Henry M. Morris and John C. Whitcomb Jr. in their book \"The Genesis Flood\" in 1961. Morris and Whitcomb argued that the Earth was geologically recent and that the Great Flood had laid down most of the geological strata in the space of a single year, reviving pre-uniformitarian arguments. Given this history, they argued, \"the last refuge of the case for evolution immediately vanishes away, and the record of the rocks becomes a tremendous witness... to the holiness and justice and power of the living God of Creation!\"\n\nThis became the foundation of a new generation of young Earth creationist believers, who organized themselves around Morris' Institute for Creation Research. Sister organizations such as the Creation Research Society have sought to re-interpret geological formations within a Young Earth Creationist viewpoint. Langdon Gilkey writes:\n\nYoung Earth creationism directly contradicts the scientific consensus of the scientific community. A 2006 joint statement of InterAcademy Panel on International Issues (IAP) by 68 national and international science academies enumerated the scientific facts that young Earth creationism contradicts, in particular that the universe, the Earth, and life are billions of years old, that each has undergone continual change over those billions of years, and that life on Earth has evolved from a common primordial origin into the diverse forms observed in the fossil record and present today. Evolutionary theory remains the only explanation that fully accounts for all the observations, measurements, data, and evidence discovered in the fields of biology, ecology, anatomy, physiology, zoology, paleontology, molecular biology, genetics, anthropology, and others.\n\nAs such, young Earth creationism is dismissed by the academic and the scientific communities. One 1987 estimate found that \"700 scientists ... (out of a total of 480,000 U.S. earth and life scientists) ... give credence to creation-science\". An expert in the evolution-creationism controversy, professor and author Brian Alters, states that \"99.9 percent of scientists accept evolution\". A 1991 Gallup poll found that about 5 per cent of American scientists (including those with training outside biology) identified themselves as creationists. For their part, Young Earth Creationists say that the lack of support for their beliefs by the scientific community is due to discrimination and censorship by professional science journals and professional science organizations. This viewpoint was explicitly rejected in the rulings from the 1981 United States District Court case \"McLean v. Arkansas Board of Education\" as no witness was able to produce any articles that had been refused publication and the judge could not conceive how \"a loose knit group of independent thinkers in all the varied fields of science could, or would, so effectively censor new scientific thought\". A 1985 study also found that only 18 out of 135,000 submissions to scientific journals advocated creationism.\n\nMorris' ideas had a considerable impact on creationism and fundamentalist Christianity. Armed with the backing of conservative organizations and individuals, his brand of \"creation science\" was widely promoted throughout the United States and overseas, with his books being translated into at least ten different languages. The inauguration of so-called \"Young Earth Creationism\" as a religious position has, on occasion, impacted science education in the United States, where periodic controversies have raged over the appropriateness of teaching YEC doctrine and creation science in public schools (see Teach the Controversy) alongside or in replacement of the theory of evolution. Young Earth creationism has not had as large an impact in the less literalist circles of Christianity. Some churches, such as the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox churches, accede to the possibility of theistic evolution; though individual church members support young Earth creationism and do so without those churches' explicit condemnation.\n\nAdherence to Young Earth Creationism and rejection of evolution is higher in the U.S. than in most of the rest of the Western world. A 2012 Gallup survey reported that 46 per cent of Americans believed in the creationist view that God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years, a statistic which has remained essentially the same since 1982; for those with a postgraduate education, only 25 per cent believed in the creationist viewpoint. About one third of Americans believed that humans evolved with God's guidance and 15 per cent said humans evolved, but that God had no part in the process. A 2009 poll by Harris Interactive found that 39 per cent of Americans agreed with the statement that \"God created the universe, the earth, the sun, moon, stars, plants, animals, and the first two people within the past 10,000 years\", yet only 18 per cent of the Americans polled agreed with the statement \"The earth is less than 10,000 years old\". A 2017 Gallup creationism survey found that 38 per cent of adults in the United States inclined to the view that \"God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years\" when asked for their views on the origin and development of human beings, which Gallup noted was the lowest level in 35 years.\n\nReasons for the higher rejection of evolution in the U.S. include the abundance of fundamentalist Christians compared to Europe. A 2011 Gallup survey reported that 30 per cent of Americans said the Bible is the actual word of God and should be interpreted literally, a statistic which had fallen slightly from the late 1970s. Fifty-four per cent of those who attended church weekly and 46 per cent of those with a high school education or less took the Bible literally.\n\nThe common belief of Young Earth Creationists is that the Earth and life were created in six 24-hour periods, 6,000-10,000 years ago. However, there are different approaches to how this is possible given the geological evidence for much longer timescales. The Science Education Resource Center at Carleton College has identified two major types of YEC belief systems:\n\n\nYoung Earth creationists regard the Bible as a historically accurate, factually inerrant record of natural history. As Henry Morris, a leading Young Earth Creationist, explained it, \"Christians who flirt with less-than-literal readings of biblical texts are also flirting with theological disaster.\" According to Morris, Christians must \"either ... believe God's Word all the way, or not at all.\" Young Earth creationists consider the account of creation given in Genesis to be a factual record of the origin of the Earth and life, and that Bible-believing Christians must therefore regard Genesis 1–11 as historically accurate.\n\nYoung Earth creationists interpret the text of Genesis as strictly literal. Young Earth Creationists reject allegorical readings of Genesis and further argue that if there was not a literal Fall of Man, Noah's Ark, or Tower of Babel this would undermine core Christian doctrines like the birth and resurrection of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe genealogies of Genesis record the line of descent from Adam through Noah to Abraham. Young Earth Creationists interpret these genealogies literally, including the old ages of the men. For example, Methuselah lived 969 years according to the genealogy. Differences of opinion exist regarding whether the genealogies should be taken as complete or abbreviated, hence the 6,000 to 10,000 year range usually quoted for the Earth's age. In contrast, Old Earth Creationists tend to interpret the genealogies as incomplete, and usually interpret the days of Genesis 1 figuratively as long periods of time.\n\nYoung Earth creationists believe that the flood described in Genesis 6–9 did occur, was global in extent, and submerged all dry land on Earth. Some Young Earth Creationists go further and advocate a kind of flood geology which relies on the appropriation of late eighteenth and early nineteenth century arguments in favor of catastrophism made by such scientists as Georges Cuvier and Richard Kirwan. This approach which was replaced by the mid-nineteenth century almost entirely by uniformitarianism was adopted most famously by George McCready Price and this legacy is reflected in the most prominent YEC organizations today. YEC ideas to accommodate the massive amount of water necessary for a flood that was global in scale included inventing such constructs as an orbiting vapor canopy which would have collapsed and generated the necessary extreme rainfall or a rapid movement of tectonic plates causing underground aquifers or tsunamis from underwater volcanic steam to inundate the planet.\n\nThe young Earth creationist belief that the age of the Earth is 6,000 to 10,000 years old conflicts with the age of 4.54 billion years measured using independently cross-validated geochronological methods including radiometric dating. Creationists dispute these and all other methods which demonstrate the timescale of geologic history in spite of the lack of scientific evidence that there are any inconsistencies or errors in the measurement of the Earth's age.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2005, a team of scientists at the Institute for Creation Research conducted an eight-year research project entitled RATE (Radioisotopes and the Age of The Earth) to assess the validity and accuracy of radiometric dating techniques. While they concluded that there was overwhelming evidence for over 500 million years' worth of radioactive decay, they claimed to have found other scientific evidence to prove a young earth. They therefore proposed that nuclear decay rates were accelerated by a factor of one billion during the Creation week and at the time of the Flood. However, when subjected to independent scrutiny by non-affiliated experts, their analyses were shown to be flawed.\n\nYoung Earth creationists reject almost all of the results of physical anthropology and human evolution and instead insist that Adam and Eve were the universal ancestors of every human to have ever lived. Noah's flood as reported in the book of Genesis is said to have killed all humans on Earth with the exception of Noah and his sons and their wives, so young Earth creationists also argue that humans alive today are descended from this single family.\n\nThe literal belief that the world's linguistic variety originated with the tower of Babel is pseudoscientific, sometimes called pseudolinguistics, and it is contrary to what is known about the origin and history of languages.\n\nYoung Earth creationists reject the geologic evidence that the stratigraphic sequence of fossils proves the Earth is billions of years old. In his \"Illogical Geology\", expanded in 1913 as \"The Fundamentals of Geology\", George McCready Price argued that the occasionally out-of-order sequence of fossils that are shown to be due to thrust faults made it impossible to prove any one fossil was older than any other. His \"law\" that fossils could be found in any order implied that strata could not be dated sequentially. He instead proposed that essentially all fossils were buried during the flood and thus inaugurated flood geology. In numerous books and articles he promoted this concept, focusing his attack on the sequence of the geologic time scale as \"the devil's counterfeit of the six days of Creation as recorded in the first chapter of Genesis.\" Today, many young Earth creationists still contend that the fossil record can be explained by the global flood.\n\nIn \"The Genesis Flood\" (1961) Henry M. Morris reiterated Price's arguments, and wrote that because there had been no death before the Fall of Man, he felt \"compelled to date all the rock strata which contain fossils of once-living creatures as subsequent to Adam's fall\", attributing most to the flood. He added that humans and dinosaurs had lived together, quoting Clifford L. Burdick for the report that dinosaur tracks had supposedly been found overlapping a human track in the Paluxy River bed Glen Rose Formation. He was subsequently advised that he might have been misled, and Burdick wrote to Morris in September 1962 that \"you kind of stuck your neck out in publishing those Glen Rose tracks.\" In the third printing of the book this section was removed.\n\nFollowing in this vein, many young Earth creationists, especially those associated with the more visible organizations, do not deny the existence of dinosaurs and other extinct animals present in the fossil record. Usually, they claim that the fossils represent the remains of animals that perished in the flood. A number of creationist organizations further propose that Noah took the dinosaurs with him in the ark, and that they only began to disappear as a result of a different post-flood environment. The Creation Museum in Kentucky portrays humans and dinosaurs coexisting before the Flood while the California roadside attraction Cabazon Dinosaurs describes dinosaurs as being created the same day as Adam and Eve. The Creation Evidence Museum in Glen Rose, Texas, has a \"hyperbaric biosphere\" intended to reproduce the atmospheric conditions before the Flood which could grow dinosaurs. The proprietor Carl Baugh says that these conditions made creatures grow larger and live longer, so that humans of that time were giants.\n\nAs the term \"dinosaur\" was coined by Richard Owen in 1842, the Bible does not use the word \"dinosaur\". Some creationist organizations propose that the Hebrew word \"tanniyn\" (תנין, ), mentioned nearly thirty times in the Old Testament, should be considered a synonym. In English translations, \"tanniyn\" has been translated as \"sea monster\" or \"serpent\", but most often it is translated as \"dragon\". Additionally, in the Book of Job, a \"behemoth\" () is described as a creature that \"moves his tail like a cedar\"; the behemoth is described as ranking \"first among the works of God\" and as impossible to capture (vs. 24). Biblical scholars have alternatively identified the behemoth as either an elephant, a hippopotamus, or a bull, but some creationists have identified the behemoth with sauropod dinosaurs, often specifically the \"Brachiosaurus\" according to their interpretation of the verse \"He is the chief of the ways of God\" implying that the behemoth is the largest animal God created. The leviathan is another creature referred to in the Bible's Old Testament that some creationists argue is actually a dinosaur. Alternatively, more mainstream scholars have identified the Leviathan () with the Nile crocodile or, because Ugarit texts describe it as having seven heads, a purely mythical beast similar to the Lernaean Hydra.\n\nA subset of adherents of the pseudoscience of cryptozoology promote Young Earth creationism, particularly in the context of so-called \"living dinosaurs\". Science writer Sharon A. Hill observes that the Young Earth creationist segment of cryptozoology is \"well-funded and able to conduct expeditions with a goal of finding a living dinosaur that they think would invalidate evolution.\" Anthropologist Jeb J. Card says that \"Creationists have embraced cryptozoology and some cryptozoological expeditions are funded by and conducted by creationists hoping to disprove evolution.\" Young Earth creationists occasionally claim that dinosaurs survived in Australia, and that Aboriginal legends of reptilian monsters are evidence of this, referring to what is known as \"Megalania\" (\"Varanus priscus\"). However, \"Megalania\" was a gigantic monitor lizard, and not a dinosaur, as its discoverer, Richard Owen, realized that the skeletal remains were that of a lizard, and not an archosaur.\n\nYoung Earth creationism is most famous for an opposition to the theory of evolution, but believers also are on record opposing many measurements, facts, and principles in the fields of physics and chemistry, dating methods including radiometric dating, geology, astronomy, cosmology, and paleontology. Young Earth creationists do not accept any explanation for natural phenomena which deviates from the veracity of a plain reading of the Bible, whether it be the origins of biological diversity, the origins of life, or the origins of the universe itself. This has led some young Earth creationists to criticize other creationist proposals such as intelligent design, for not taking a strong stand on the age of the Earth, special creation, or even the identity of the designer.\n\nYoung Earth creationists disagree with the methodological naturalism that is part of the scientific method. Instead, they assert the actions of God as described in the Bible occurred as written and therefore only scientific evidence that points to the Bible being correct can be accepted. See Creation-evolution controversy for a more complete discussion.\n\nAs a position that developed out of the explicitly anti-intellectual side of the Fundamentalist–Modernist Controversy in the early parts of the twentieth century, there is no single unified nor consistent consensus on how creationism as a belief system ought to reconcile its adherents' acceptance of biblical inerrancy with empirical facts of the Universe. Although Young Earth Creationism is one of the most stridently literalist positions taken among professed creationists, there are also examples of biblical literalist adherents to both geocentrism and a flat Earth. Conflicts between different kinds of creationists are rather common, but three in particular are of particular relevance to YEC: Old Earth Creationism, Gap creationism, and the Omphalos hypothesis.\n\nYoung Earth creationists reject old Earth creationism and day-age creationism on textual and theological grounds. In addition, they claim that the scientific data in geology and astronomy point to a young Earth, against the consensus of the general scientific community.\n\nYoung Earth creationists generally hold that, when Genesis describes the creation of the Earth occurring over a period of days, this indicates normal-length 24 hour days, and cannot reasonably be interpreted otherwise. They agree that the Hebrew word for \"day\" (\"yôm\") can refer to either a 24-hour day or a long or unspecified time; but argue that, whenever the latter interpretation is used, it includes a preposition defining the long or unspecified period. In the \"specific context of Genesis 1\", since the days are both numbered and are referred to as \"evening and morning\", this can mean only normal-length days. Further, they argue that the 24-hour day is the only interpretation that makes sense of the Sabbath command in Exodus 20:8–11. YECs argue that it is a glaring exegetical fallacy to take a meaning from one context (yom referring to a long period of time in Genesis 1) and apply it to a completely different one (yom referring to normal-length days in Exodus 20).\n\nHebrew scholars reject the rule that \"yôm\" with a number or an \"evening and morning\" construct can only refer to 24-hour days. Hugh Ross has pointed out that the earliest reference to this rule dates back to young-earth creationist literature in the 1970s and that no reference to it exists independent of the young-earth movement.\n\nThe \"gap theory\" acknowledges a vast age for the universe, including the Earth and solar system, while asserting that life was created recently in six 24-hour days by divine fiat. Genesis 1 is thus interpreted literally, with an indefinite \"gap\" of time inserted between the first two verses. (Some gap theorists insert a \"primordial creation\" and Lucifer's rebellion into the gap.) Young Earth Creationist organizations argue that the gap theory is unscriptural, unscientific, and not necessary, in its various forms.\n\nMany young Earth creationists distinguish their own hypotheses from the \"Omphalos hypothesis\", today more commonly referred to as the apparent age concept, put forth by the naturalist and science writer Philip Henry Gosse. \"Omphalos\" was an unsuccessful mid-19th century attempt to reconcile creationism with geology. Gosse proposed that just as Adam had a navel (\"omphalos\" is Greek for navel), evidence of a gestation he never experienced, so also the Earth was created \"ex nihilo\" complete with evidence of a prehistoric past that never actually occurred. The Omphalos hypothesis allows for a young Earth without giving rise to any predictions that would contradict scientific findings of an old Earth. Although both logically unassailable and consistent with a literal reading of scripture, Omphalos was rejected at the time by scientists on the grounds that it was completely unfalsifiable and by theologians because it implied to them a deceitful God, which they found theologically unacceptable.\n\nToday, in contrast to Gosse, young Earth creationists posit that not only is the Earth young but that the scientific data supports that view. However, the apparent age concept is still used in young Earth creationist literature. There are examples of young Earth creationists arguing that Adam did \"not\" have a navel.\n\nYoung Earth creationists adhere strongly to a concept of biblical inerrancy, and regard the Bible as divinely inspired and \"infallible and completely authoritative on all matters with which they deal, free from error of any sort, scientific and historical as well as moral and theological\". Young Earth creationists also suggest that supporters of modern scientific understanding with which they disagree are primarily motivated by atheism. Critics reject this claim by pointing out that many supporters of evolutionary theory are religious believers, and that major religious groups, such as the Roman Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Church, and Church of England, believe that concepts such as physical cosmology, chemical origins of life, biological evolution, and geological fossil records do not imply a rejection of the scriptures. Critics also point out that workers in fields related to biology, chemistry, physics, or geosciences are not required to sign statements of belief in contemporary science comparable to the biblical inerrancy pledges required by creationist organizations, contrary to the creationist claim that scientists operate on an \"a priori\" disbelief in biblical principles.\n\nCreationists also discount certain modern Christian theological positions, like those of French Jesuit priest, geologist and paleontologist Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, who saw that his work with evolutionary sciences actually confirmed and inspired his faith in the cosmic Christ; or those of Thomas Berry, a cultural historian and ecotheologian, that the cosmological 13-billion-year \"Universe Story\" provides all faiths and all traditions with a single account by which the divine has made its presence in the world.\n\nProponents of young Earth creationism are regularly accused of quote mining, the practice of isolating passages from academic texts that appear to support their claims, while deliberately excluding context and conclusions to the contrary. For example, scientists acknowledge that there are indeed a number of mysteries about the Universe left to be solved, and scientists actively working in the fields who identify inconsistencies or problems with extant models, when pressed, explicitly reject creationist interpretations. Theologians and philosophers have also criticized this \"God of the gaps\" viewpoint.\n\nIn defending against young Earth creationist attacks on \"evolutionism\" and \"Darwinism\", scientists and skeptics have offered rejoinders that every challenge made by YECs is either made in an unscientific fashion, or is readily explainable by science.\n\nFew modern theologians take the Genesis account of creation literally. Even many Christian evangelicals who reject the notion of purely naturalistic Darwinian evolution, often treat the story as a nonliteral saga, as poetry, or as liturgical literature.\n\nGenesis contains two accounts of the Creation: in chapter 1 man was created after the animals (), while in chapter 2 man was created () before the animals (). Proponents of the Documentary hypothesis suggest that Genesis 1 was a litany from the \"Priestly\" source (possibly from an early Jewish liturgy), while Genesis 2 was assembled from older \"Jahwist\" material, holding that, for both stories to be a single account, Adam would have named all the animals, and God would have created Eve from his rib as a suitable mate, all within a single 24 hour period. Creationists responding to this point attribute the view to misunderstanding having arisen from poor translation of the tenses in Genesis 2 in contemporary translations of the Bible (e.g. compare \"planted\" and \"had planted\" in the King James Version and New International Version).\n\nSome Christians assert that the Bible is free from error only in religious and moral matters, and that, where scientific or historic questions are concerned, the Bible should not be read literally. This position is held by a number of major denominations. For instance, in a publication entitled \"The Gift of Scripture\", the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales comments that, \"We should not expect to find in Scripture full scientific accuracy or complete historical precision\". The Bible is held to be true in passages relating to human salvation, but, \"We should not expect total accuracy from the Bible in other, secular matters\". While the Catholic Church teaches that the Bible's message is without error, it does not consider it always to be literal. By contrast, young Earth creationists contend that moral and spiritual matters in the Bible are intimately connected with its historical accuracy; in their view, the Bible stands or falls as a single indivisible block of knowledge.\n\nAside from the theological doubts voiced by other Christians, young Earth creationism also stands in opposition to the creation mythologies of other religions (both extant and extinct). Many of these make claims regarding the origin of the Universe and humanity that are completely incompatible with those of Christian creationists (and with one another). Marshaling support for the Judeo-Christian creation myth versus other creation myths after having rejected much of the scientific evidence is largely, then, done on the basis of accepting on faith the veracity of the biblical account rather than the alternative.\n\nThe vast majority of scientists refute young Earth creationism. Around the start of the 19th century mainstream science abandoned the concept that Earth was younger than millions of years. Measurements of biological, chemical, geological, and cosmological timescales differ from YEC's estimates of Earth's age by six orders of magnitude (that is, by factor of a million times). Scientific estimates of the age of the earliest pottery discovered, the oldest known trees, the ice cores, and layers of silt deposit in Lake Suigetsu are all significantly older than the oldest YEC estimate of Earth's age. YEC's theories are further contradicted by scientists' ability to observe galaxies billions of light years away.\n\nSpokespersons for the scientific community have generally regarded claims that YEC has a scientific basis as being religiously motivated pseudoscience, because young Earth creationists only look for evidence to support their preexisting belief that the Bible is a literal description of the development of the Universe. In 1997, a poll by the Gallup organization showed that 5 per cent of U.S. adults with professional degrees in science took a young Earth creationist view. In the aforementioned poll, 40 per cent of the same group said they believed that life, including humans, had evolved over millions of years, but that God guided this process, a view described as theistic evolution, while 55 per cent held a view of \"naturalistic evolution\" in which no God took part in this process. Some scientists (such as Hugh Ross and Gerald Schroeder) who believe in creationism are known to subscribe to other forms, such as old Earth creationism, which posits an act of creation that took place millions or billions of years ago, with variations on the timing of the creation of mankind.\n\n\n"}
