{"id": "1780903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780903", "title": "Alain Touraine", "text": "Alain Touraine\n\nAlain Touraine (; born 3 August 1925) is a French sociologist. He is research director at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, where he founded the \"Centre d'étude des mouvements sociaux\". He is best known for being the originator of the term \"post-industrial society\".\n\nTouraine's work is based on a \"sociology of action\", which he called \"actionalism\", and believes that society shapes its future through structural mechanisms and its own social struggles. Touraine defined historicity as the capability of a society to take action upon itself, see \"The Self-Production of Society\" (1977).\n\nHis prime interest for most of his career has been with social movements. He has studied and written extensively on workers' movements across the world, particularly in Latin America. In Poland where he observed and the emergence of Solidarnosc. While in Poland, he developed the research method of \"Sociological Intervention,\" which had been outlined in \"The Voice and the Eye\" (\"La Voix et le Regard\") [1981].\n\nTouraine has gained popularity in Latin America as well as in continental Europe. He has failed to gain the same recognition in the English-speaking world, although half of his books have been translated into English. He participated in 1969 at the Universitas project organized by Argentine architect Emilio Ambasz.\n\nIn 2010, he was jointly awarded, with Zygmunt Bauman, the Príncipe de Asturias Prize for Communication and the Humanities.\nTouraine received the Légion d’Honneur in 2014 during his daughter Marisol’s mandate as French Minister of Social Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29206608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29206608", "title": "Athenians Project", "text": "Athenians Project\n\nAthenians Project is a multi-year, ongoing project of compiling, computerizing and studying data about the persons of ancient Athens. By applying modern technology to ancient data, over a 100,000 entries have been digitized and maintained in an Empress Embedded Database for over 30 years. The project is headed by Professor John S. Traill of the University of Toronto in the Classics Department.\n\nThe Athenians Project began back in the 1970s to preserve and make searchable the age-faded, handwritten card-files of Dr.Benjamin Dean Meritt. Meritt had written information about the persons of ancient Athens and accumulated the card files over the preceding 40 years. This included data collected by who also lent his work to the field of epigraphy and prosopography of ancient Athens in his book \"\". Published back in 1901, Kirchner's \"Prosopographia Attica\" had 15,588 entries, was limited to the pre-Augustan period, and contained only registered Athenian citizens.\n\nAthenians Project data is available in two main parts. The first is a set of hardbound printed volumes titled \"Persons of Ancient Athens\" of more than 100,000 entries and typeset in ancient Greek. The second is a relational database of Athenians data which is used to search data using a computer in a variety of ways for further study. The Athenians prosopography Project includes Athenian citizens at home and abroad, slaves, resident aliens, and foreigners honored at Athens—all the known men and women of Athens from the beginning of alphabetic writing to the Byzantine period.\n\nPart of the data is made available to anyone via the Website Attica. Website Attica is designed to be complementary to the published volumes of \"Persons of Ancient Athens\" (PAA). There are currently 21 published volumes of PAA and at least one more was scheduled to be published within the next two years. The Athenians Project is Toronto's designedly complete database of all \"Persons of Ancient Athens\".\n\nSearches in the Website Attica may be made on about 10,000 names, all within half of volume four, the entirety of volume five, and the first third of volume six of \"Persons of Ancient Athens\", i.e. names beginning with the letters beta through delta. The possible searches range from selecting every person in a particular Deme or of a specified profession to more sophisticated searches, e.g. to find all Athenians who lived between specified years and/or are related to a certain person and/or are attested in a class of document, etc.\n\nThe Athenians Project is the lifeblood of Professor Emeritus John Traill, a world-renowned expert and instructor in \"Latin and Greek Scientific Terminology\" at the University of Toronto. He has published 24 books and edited an additional 5 books on Greek inscriptions, the topography of Athens and Attica, and on the people of ancient Athens. For the last 3 decades he has directed the Athenians Project. At the beginning of the 1980s, Traill, with the support of the University of Toronto, applied for and received a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada research grant to use relational database software technology to store the ancient Athenian data. During the next 30 years, over 100,000 entries have been entered as ancient Greek characters and stored using an Empress Embedded Database. \n\nJohn Traill's project had its origin in the work of Benjamin Dean Meritt to maintain current data on Athenian prosopography. Like Traill, Meritt saw the potential of the computer to make his paper resources at the Institute for Advanced Study dynamic and expandable. By 1972 Traill was at work entering data. Meritt was an emeritus professor of Greek epigraphy at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton.\n\nBased on the Meritt card-file at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, \"Persons of Ancient Athens\" also includes full references with texts to document each biographical fact.\n\nBased originally at Victoria University in the University of Toronto, formerly Victoria College, Athenians Project is now located in the Department of Classics at the University of Toronto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36589144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36589144", "title": "Basilea (queen)", "text": "Basilea (queen)\n\nBasilea was the first queen of the legendary Kingdom of Atlantis in ancient Greek folk tradition.\n\nBasilea was the eldest and one of the most celebrated daughters of Uranus, who had forty-five children by various wives, including Rhea and Pandora. Basilea became known as the “Great Mother” due to the solicitous way in which she cared for her younger brothers. After her father’s death, she was elected Queen of Atlantis by popular vote. She married her brother Hyperion and had two children: Selene and Helios, the goddess of the moon and god of the sun, respectively. However, her other brothers murdered Hyperion, for fear that he might usurp the throne, and drowned Helios in the River Eridanus or Po in Italy. Out of love for her brother, Selene committed suicide by jumping from a rooftop. Upon learning of the death of her children, Basilea went mad and “wandered up and down, with hair disheveled and bedizened with ornaments, playing wildly on the timbrel and cymbal.” When the people of Atlantis tried to restrain her, she disappeared into a terrible lightning storm. In honor of Basilea and her children, divine rites were established.\n\nBasilea is often confused for Theia, the more accepted mother of Selene, Helios, and in addition, Eos, and wife to Hyperion. It is unsure whether or not they are the same figure.\n\nBasilea is also mentioned quite differently in other versions. She is listed as a daughter of Coelus and Terra, and is implied to be the mother of all gods. It is also implied that she is another version of Aphrodite (Roman, Venus).\n\n"}
{"id": "40349585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40349585", "title": "Beijing Ming City Wall Ruins Park", "text": "Beijing Ming City Wall Ruins Park\n\nThe Beijing Ming City Wall Ruins Park () is a park in Beijing with the longest and best preserved section of the city's Ming Dynasty city wall. The park is located from the city center and extends west from Chongwenmen to Dongbianmen and then north to near the Beijing Railway Station. The park features a section of the Ming city wall and the Southeast Corner Tower, which are over 550 years old and surrounded by green park space to the south and east. The park covers an area of , including of fortifications and of green space. Access to the corner tower and the ramparts atop the wall is available during business hours and require paying admission. The corner tower also houses the Red Gate Gallery. The rest of the park is free and open to the public at all times.\n\nThe park is located at the southeast corner of Beijing's inner walled city, about southeast of Tiananmen Square in what is now Dongcheng District, just inside the Second Ring Road. Preserved in the park is a section of the city wall including the Southeast Corner Tower, that once connected Chongwenmen and Dongbianmen, two city gates that have been replaced with roadway intersections. The longer southern city wall is attached to the Southeast Corner Tower itself while a shorter section of the eastern city wall is separated from the corner tower by a railway out of the Beijing Railway Station. Park space at the foot of the southern city wall extends along Chongwenmen East Avenue to the Second Ring Road. The Beijing Ancient Observatory, built atop another section of the eastern city wall at Jianguomen, is a short walk north of the corner tower. The Beijing Railway Station and its rail depots occupy the area immediately north of the park.\n\nThe corner tower's exhibits and ramparts are open from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. Admission is Y10 for adults, half-price for students. Children below 1.2 m in height and senior citizens are admitted for free. The park space is not enclosed and is accessible to the public at all hours. The park is popular with tourists visiting the wall and residents from the surrounding neighborhood, who use the green space for recreation and dog walking. The park hosts the annual Huashi Saturn Peach Temple Festival.\n\nThe Ming City Wall Relics Park is accessible by Beijing Bus to Dongbianmen (Routes 25, 29, 39, 43, 44, 59, 434, 525, 610, 674 and 特2), Chongwenmen East (Routes 12, 25, 39, 43, 44, 525, 610) and Jianguomen South (Routes 25, 39, 43, 44, 52, 122, 434, 637, 638, 750 and 特2); and by Beijing Subway to Chongwenmen (Line 2) and Jianguomen (Lines 1 and 2).\n\nBeijing's inner city wall was built during the Ming Dynasty in 1419. The Ming city walls stood for nearly 550 years until the early 1960s when most of the gates and walls were torn down to build the Beijing Subway, which runs underneath where the walls stood. The subway's inner loop line turned into the Inner City at Chongwenmen to stop at the Beijing Railway Station, and did not need to run beneath a section of the wall at the southeast corner of the Inner City. Of the 40 km of the original wall, only this 1.5 km section was spared. Inside this section of the wall (north of the wall) are railway yards of Beijing Station. Outside the wall (south of the wall) stood residential homes and small businesses. \n\nIn the late 1990s, the city government decided convert the remnants of the wall into a park and relocate the small businesses and homes between the foot of the southern city wall and Chongwenmen East Avenue. The relocated businesses and residents received compensation and tax exemptions. Construction began in November 2001. The homes, which lacked indoor heating, plumbing and running water, were razed but large trees that stood in the courtyards were preserved. To preserve the historical integrity of the fortifications, the authorities solicited donations of Ming era bricks from city residents to use in the restoration. About of one-fifth of 2,000,000 bricks used in the restoration are from the Ming-era.\n\nWhen the park was completed in September 2003, national leaders Jiang Zemin, Li Lanqing, Wan Li, Ding Guan'gen, and then municipal party secretary Jia Qinglin and mayor Liu Qi, visited the park.\n\nThe Southeast Corner Tower was built from 1436 to 1439 and is a major state-protected historical site. The tower, which rises in height with 144 archery windows, is the largest corner tower still standing in China. The tower could house 200 soldiers and has ramps for soldiers and horses. During the Qing Dynasty, bannerman of the Plain Blue Banner were stationed at the corner tower. During the Boxer Rebellion of 1900, the tower was attacked and captured by the Eight-Nation Alliance. It was known by Westerners as the Fox Tower. Graffiti carved by the invaders are preserved inside the tower. The corner tower was restored in 1983 and became a tourist site. Inside the tower is an exhibit on the history of the city's Ming-era walls and the Red Gate Gallery, a privately managed, non-profit contemporary art gallery opened in 1991. The gallery is open to the public and free of admission. In 2003, the Southeast Corner Tower became part of the Ming City Wall Relics Park.\n\nThe inner city wall stood high and were topped with battlements that rose a further . The wall, lined with brick and filled with rammed earth, was thick at the foundation and at the top. Bastions protruding on the outside face of the wall are locally known as \"mamian\" or \"horse face\". The bastions, spaced about apart, allowed archers to fire at attackers from three sides. The restored fortification has 11 bastions on the southern wall and two bastions on the shorter eastern wall. Only the battlements of the corner tower and one bastion has been fully restored.\n\nDuring the restoration, some 400 trees, 6,000 bushes and 100,000 flowering plants were planted on the park grounds. In 2009, about 600 old trees on the park grounds were \"adopted\" by various social organizations that pledged to contribute to the cost of nourishing the trees, pruning, and insect-control.\n\nAlso on the park grounds is a restored signal house of the Beijing–Fengtian (Jingfeng) Railway built in 1901.\n\n"}
{"id": "31237833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31237833", "title": "Benjamin I. Schwartz", "text": "Benjamin I. Schwartz\n\nBenjamin Isadore Schwartz (December 12, 1916 – November 14, 1999) was an American academic, author and sinologist.\n\nSchwartz graduated from Harvard University in 1938 in modern languages, with an honors thesis on \"Pascal and the XVIIIth century \"philosophes\"\" and started a career in school teaching before studying Japanese during the Second World War and working on code-breaking. After the war he studied an M.A. in East Asian studies at Harvard and went on to gain a Ph.D. there.\n\nSchwartz was a member of the Harvard faculty, teaching in Cambridge until he retired in 1987.\n\nIn 1983-1984, Schwartz served as acting director of the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies.\n\nA festschrift in his honour was held after his retirement, and published in 1990 as \"Ideas across cultures: essays on Chinese thought in honor of Benjamin I. Schwartz\" () and published by the Harvard University Asia Center.\n\nHe wrote principally on recent situations in China. His first book in that area was \"Chinese communism and the rise of Mao\" (1951), held in 1546 academic libraries. He subsequently wrote: \"Communism and China; ideology in flux\" published by Harvard University Press in 1968, held in 929 libraries according to WorldCat, and edited the symposium \"Reflections on the May Fourth movement: a symposium.\" East Asian Research Center, Harvard University; distributed by Harvard University Press, 1972. Near the end of his career in 1996 he wrote \"China and Other Matters\" Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press \n\nHe also wrote on earlier periods. His 1985 book \"The World of Thought in Ancient China\" was published by Harvard University Press, and is held in 850 libraries, according to WorldCat. It was reviewed in \"The American Historical Review\", \"Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies\", \"Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies\", \"China Quarterly\", \"The Journal of Asian Studies\", \"Philosophy East and West\", \" Chinese Literature: Essays, Articles, Reviews\", and \"The Australian Journal of Chinese Affairs\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204068", "title": "Benjamin Thorpe", "text": "Benjamin Thorpe\n\nBenjamin Thorpe (1782 – 19 July 1870) was an English scholar of Anglo-Saxon literature.\n\nIn the early 1820s he worked as a banker in the House of Rothschild, in Paris. There he met Thomas Hodgkin, who treated him for tuberculosis.\n\nAfter studying for four years at Copenhagen University, under the Danish philologist Rasmus Christian Rask, Thorpe returned to England in 1830. In a few years he established a reputation as an Anglo-Saxon scholar.\n\nIn recognition of unremunerative work, Thorpe was granted a civil list pension of £160 in 1835, and on 17 June 1841 this was increased to £200 per annum. He was a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, a member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Munich, and of the Society of Netherlandish Literature at Leyden He died at Chiswick in July 1870.\n\nIn 1830 Thorpe brought out at Copenhagen an English version of Rask's \"Anglo-Saxon Grammar\" (a second edition of this appeared at London). That same year he moved to London with his new wife Mary Otte and her daughter Elise Otté. Thorpe educated and oppressed his step daughter and she had a troubled relationship and unattributed partnership with him throughout his life.\n\nIn 1832 he published at London \"Cædmon's Metrical Paraphrase of Parts of the Holy Scriptures in Anglo-Saxon; with an English Translation, Notes, and a Verbal Index\", which was well reviewed. It was followed in 1834 by the \"Anglo-Saxon Version of the Story of Apollonius of Tyre\" and by \"Analecta Anglo-Saxonica\", a textbook which was adopted at Oxford by Robert Meadows White. The \"Analecta\" was used, with Vernon's \"Anglo-Saxon Guide\", for 40 years.\n\nIn 1835 Thorpe published \"Libri Psalmorum Versio antiqua Latina\" and then \"Ancient Laws and Institutes of England\" (1840). Two more volumes were published by Thorpe in 1842, \"The Holy Gospels in Anglo-Saxon\" and \"Codex Exoniensis, a Collection of Anglo-Saxon Poetry, with English Translation and Notes\", an edition of the poems in the Exeter Book with English translation. Next came, for the Ælfric Society, \"The Homilies of the Anglo-Saxon Church\",' with an English version, published in ten parts between 1843 and 1846.\n\nIn 1834 Thorpe had begun a translation of Johann Martin Lappenberg's works on old English history, but was deterred. By 1842 he had started another version, with alterations, corrections, and notes of his own; it was published in two volumes in 1845 as \"A History of England under the Anglo-Saxon Kings\". It was followed eventually by a version of Lappenberg's \"History of England under the Norman Kings\" (1857). Thorpe's two-volume edition of Florence of Worcester was issued in 1848–49.\n\nFor the publisher Edward Lumley Thorpe produced \"Northern Mythology\" (1851) with notes and illustrations. It was followed in 1853 by \"Yule Tide Stories\" which appeared in Bohn's Antiquarian Library. For the same library he translated in 1854 \"Pauli's Life of Alfred the Great\", with Alfred's Anglo-Saxon version of \"Orosius\". In 1855 appeared Thorpe's \"Anglo-Saxon Poems of Beowulf\", with translation, notes, glossary, and indexes. He had planned this work as early as 1830, and his text was collated with the Cottonian MS before John Mitchell Kemble's; the scorched edges of the manuscript suffered further shortly afterwards.\n\nIn 1861 Thorpe edited for the Rolls Series of \"The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, according to the several Authorities\". In the first volume are printed synoptically the Corpus Christi, Cambridge, the Bodleian, and the various Cottonian texts, with facsimiles and notes, while in volume two appeared the translation. Four years later, through the support of Joseph Mayer of Liverpool, Thorpe was able to publish his supplement to Kemble's \"Codex Diplomaticus ævi Saxonici\". His final work, done for Trübner in 1866, was a translation of the \"Elder Edda\".\n\nHis other works include \"The Homilies of the Anglo-Saxon Church\" (1844).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55841078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55841078", "title": "Bertha P. Dutton", "text": "Bertha P. Dutton\n\nBertha Pauline Dutton (born in Algona, Iowa on March 29, 1903; died September 11, 1994) was an archaeologist and ethnologist specializing in the American Southwest and Mesoamerica. She became a curator for the Museum of New Mexico in Santa Fe, New Mexico in 1936.\n"}
{"id": "369453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369453", "title": "Bibliophilia", "text": "Bibliophilia\n\nBibliophilia or bibliophilism is the love of books, and a bibliophile or bookworm is an individual who loves and frequently reads books, though bookworm is normally used pejoratively.\n\nThe classic bibliophile is one who loves to read, admire and collect books, often amassing a large and specialized collection. Bibliophiles usually possess books they love or that hold special value as well as old editions with unusual bindings, autographed, and/or illustrated copies.\n\nBibliophilia is not to be confused with bibliomania, a potential symptom of obsessive–compulsive disorder involving the collecting of books to the extent that interpersonal relations or health may be negatively affected, and in which the mere fact that a physical object is a book is sufficient for it to be collected or beloved. Some use the term \"bibliomania\" interchangeably with \"bibliophily\", and in fact, the Library of Congress does not use the term \"bibliophily,\" but rather refers to its readers as either book collectors or bibliomaniacs.\nThe New York Public Library follows the same practice.\n\nAccording to Arthur H. Minters, the \"private collecting of books was a fashion indulged in by many Romans, including Cicero and Atticus\". The term \"bibliophile\" entered the English language in 1824. A bibliophile is to be distinguished from the much older notion of a bookman (which dates back to 1583), who is one who loves books, and especially reading; more generally, a bookman is one who participates in writing, publishing, or selling books.\n\nLord Spencer and the Marquess of Blandford were noted bibliophiles. \"The Roxburghe sale quickly became a foundational myth for the burgeoning secondhand book trade, and remains so to this day\"; this sale is memorable due to the competition between \"Lord Spencer and the marquis of Blandford [which] drove [the price of a probable first edition of Boccaccio's \"Decameron\" up to the astonishing and unprecedented sum of £2,260\". J. P. Morgan was also a noted bibliophile. In 1884, he paid $24,750 for a 1459 edition of the Mainz Psalter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3778", "title": "Book", "text": "Book\n\nA book is both a usually portable physical object and the body of immaterial representations or intellectual object whose material signs—written or drawn lines or other two-dimensional media—the physical object contains or houses. \n\nAs a physical object, a book is a stack of usually rectangular pages (made of papyrus, parchment, vellum, or paper) oriented with one side (either left or right, depending on the direction in which one reads a script) tied, sewn, or otherwise fixed together and then bound to the flexible spine of a protective cover of heavier, relatively inflexible material so that, when the opened front cover has received a massy enough stack of sheets, the book can lie flat. The technical term for this physical arrangement is \"codex\" (in the plural, \"codices\"). In the history of hand-held physical supports for extended written compositions or records, the codex replaces its immediate predecessor, the scroll. \n\nAs an intellectual object, a book is prototypically a composition of such great length that it takes a considerable investment of time to compose and a still considerable, though not so extensive, investment of time to read. This sense of book has a restricted and an unrestricted sense. In the restricted sense, a book is a self-sufficient section or part of a longer composition, a usage that reflects the fact that, in antiquity, long works had to be written on several scrolls, and each scroll had to be identified by the book it contained. So, for instance, each part of Aristotle's \"Physics\" is called a book, as of course the Bible encompasses many different books. In the unrestricted sense, a book is the compositional whole of which such sections, whether called books or chapters or parts, are parts.\n\nBut the intellectual content in a physical book need not be a composition, or can be called a book. Books can consist only of drawings, engravings, or photographs, or such things as crossword puzzles or cut-out dolls. In a physical book the pages can be left blank or can feature an abstract set of lines as support for on-going entries, i.e., an account book, an appointment book, a log book, an autograph book, a notebook, a diary or day book, or a sketch book. Some physical books are made with pages thick and sturdy enough to support other physical objects, like a scrapbook or photograph album. \n\nBooks may be distributed in electronic form as e-books and other formats. In its \"Revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Statistics on the Production and Distribution of Books, Newspapers and Periodicals\" of 1 November 1985, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) stated that it was \"convinced that it is desirable that the national authorities responsible for collecting and reporting statistics relating to the production and distribution of printed publications should be guided by certain standards in the matter of definitions, classification and presentation,\" and so \"in order to improve the international comparability of statistics,\" it defined a book as \"a non-periodic publication of at least 49 pages exclusive of the cover pages, published in the country and made available to the public\" (11(a)), so that books statistics could be collected on \"(a) Government publications, i.e., publications issued by public administrations or their subsidiary bodies, except for those which are confidential or designed for internal distribution only; (b) School textbooks, books prescribed for pupils receiving education at the first and second level as defined in the revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Educational Statistics adopted by the General Conference; (c) University theses; (d) Offprints, i.e., reprints of a part of a book or a periodical already published, provided that they have a title and a separate pagination and that they constitute a distinct work; (e) Publications which form part of a series, but which constitute separate bibliographical units; (f) Illustrated works: (i) Collections of prints, reproductions of works of art, drawings, etc., when such collections form complete, paginated volumes and when the illustrations are accompanied by an explanatory text, however short, referring to these works or to the artists themselves; (ii) Albums, illustrated books and pamphlets written in the form of continuous narratives, with pictures illustrating certain episodes; (iii) Albums and picture-books for children; (iv) Comic books\" (9-10). A single sheet in a codex is a leaf, and each side of a leaf is a page.\n\nAlthough in ordinary academic parlance a monograph is understood to be a specialist academic work, rather than a reference work on a single scholarly subject, in library and information science \"monograph\" denotes more broadly any non-serial publication complete in one volume (book) or a finite number of volumes (even a novel like Proust's seven-volume \"In Search of Lost Time\"), in contrast to serial publications like a magazine, journal, or newspaper. An avid reader or collector of books or a book lover is a bibliophile or colloquially, \"bookworm\". A shop where books are bought and sold is a bookshop or bookstore. Books are also sold elsewhere. Books can also be borrowed from libraries. Google has estimated that as of 2010, approximately 130,000,000 distinct titles had been published. In some wealthier nations, the sale of printed books has decreased because of the use of e-books, though sales of e-books declined in the first half of 2015.\n\nThe word book comes from Old English \"bōc\", which in turn comes from the Germanic root \"*bōk-\", cognate to \"beech\". Similarly, in Slavic languages (for example, Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian) \"буква\" (bukva—\"letter\") is cognate with \"beech\". In Russian and in Serbian and Macedonian, the word \"букварь\" (bukvar') or \"буквар\" (bukvar) refers specifically to a primary school textbook that helps young children master the techniques of reading and writing.\nIt is thus conjectured that the earliest Indo-European writings may have been carved on beech wood. Similarly, the Latin word \"codex\", meaning a book in the modern sense (bound and with separate leaves), originally meant \"block of wood\".\n\nWhen writing systems were created in ancient civilizations, a variety of objects, such as stone, clay, tree bark, metal sheets, and bones, were used for writing; these are studied in epigraphy.\n\nA tablet is a physically robust writing medium, suitable for casual transport and writing. Clay tablets were flattened and mostly dry pieces of clay that could be easily carried, and impressed with a stylus. They were used as a writing medium, especially for writing in cuneiform, throughout the Bronze Age and well into the Iron Age. Wax tablets were pieces of wood covered in a thick enough coating of wax to record the impressions of a stylus. They were the normal writing material in schools, in accounting, and for taking notes. They had the advantage of being reusable: the wax could be melted, and reformed into a blank.\n\nThe custom of binding several wax tablets together (Roman \"pugillares\") is a possible precursor of modern bound (codex) books. The etymology of the word \"codex\" (block of wood) also suggests that it may have developed from wooden wax tablets.\n\nScrolls can be made from papyrus, a thick paper-like material made by weaving the stems of the papyrus plant, then pounding the woven sheet with a hammer-like tool until it is flattened. Papyrus was used for writing in Ancient Egypt, perhaps as early as the First Dynasty, although the first evidence is from the account books of King Nefertiti Kakai of the Fifth Dynasty (about 2400 BC). Papyrus sheets were glued together to form a scroll. Tree bark such as lime and other materials were also used.\n\nAccording to Herodotus (History 5:58), the Phoenicians brought writing and papyrus to Greece around the 10th or 9th century BC. The Greek word for papyrus as writing material (\"biblion\") and book (\"biblos\") come from the Phoenician port town Byblos, through which papyrus was exported to Greece. From Greek we also derive the word tome (), which originally meant a slice or piece and from there began to denote \"a roll of papyrus\". \"Tomus\" was used by the Latins with exactly the same meaning as \"volumen\" (see also below the explanation by Isidore of Seville).\n\nWhether made from papyrus, parchment, or paper, scrolls were the dominant form of book in the Hellenistic, Roman, Chinese, Hebrew, and Macedonian cultures. The more modern codex book format form took over the Roman world by late antiquity, but the scroll format persisted much longer in Asia.\n\nIsidore of Seville (d. 636) explained the then-current relation between codex, book and scroll in his Etymologiae (VI.13): \"A codex is composed of many books; a book is of one scroll. It is called codex by way of metaphor from the trunks (\"codex\") of trees or vines, as if it were a wooden stock, because it contains in itself a multitude of books, as it were of branches.\" Modern usage differs.\n\nA codex (in modern usage) is the first information repository that modern people would recognize as a \"book\": leaves of uniform size bound in some manner along one edge, and typically held between two covers made of some more robust material. The first written mention of the codex as a form of book is from Martial, in his Apophoreta at the end of the first century, where he praises its compactness. However, the codex never gained much popularity in the pagan Hellenistic world, and only within the Christian community did it gain widespread use. This change happened gradually during the 3rd and 4th centuries, and the reasons for adopting the codex form of the book are several: the format is more economical, as both sides of the writing material can be used; and it is portable, searchable, and easy to conceal. A book is much easier to read, to find a page that you want, and to flip through. A scroll is more awkward to use. The Christian authors may also have wanted to distinguish their writings from the pagan and Judaic texts written on scrolls. In addition, some metal books were made, that required smaller pages of metal, instead of an impossibly long, unbending scroll of metal. A book can also be easily stored in more compact places, or side by side in a tight library or shelf space.\n\nThe fall of the Roman Empire in the 5th century AD saw the decline of the culture of ancient Rome. Papyrus became difficult to obtain due to lack of contact with Egypt, and parchment, which had been used for centuries, became the main writing material. Parchment is a material made from processed animal skin and used—mainly in the past—for writing on.\nParchment is most commonly made of calfskin, sheepskin, or goatskin. It was historically used for writing documents, notes, or the pages of a book. Parchment is limed, scraped and dried under tension. It is not tanned, and is thus different from leather. This makes it more suitable for writing on, but leaves it very reactive to changes in relative humidity and makes it revert to rawhide if overly wet.\n\nMonasteries carried on the Latin writing tradition in the Western Roman Empire. Cassiodorus, in the monastery of Vivarium (established around 540), stressed the importance of copying texts. St. Benedict of Nursia, in his \"Rule of Saint Benedict\" (completed around the middle of the 6th century) later also promoted reading. The \"Rule of Saint Benedict\" (Ch. ), which set aside certain times for reading, greatly influenced the monastic culture of the Middle Ages and is one of the reasons why the clergy were the predominant readers of books. The tradition and style of the Roman Empire still dominated, but slowly the peculiar medieval book culture emerged.\nBefore the invention and adoption of the printing press, almost all books were copied by hand, which made books expensive and comparatively rare. Smaller monasteries usually had only a few dozen books, medium-sized perhaps a few hundred. By the 9th century, larger collections held around 500 volumes and even at the end of the Middle Ages, the papal library in Avignon and Paris library of the Sorbonne held only around 2,000 volumes.\n\nThe \"scriptorium\" of the monastery was usually located over the chapter house. Artificial light was forbidden for fear it may damage the manuscripts. There were five types of scribes:\nThe bookmaking process was long and laborious. The parchment had to be prepared, then the unbound pages were planned and ruled with a blunt tool or lead, after which the text was written by the scribe, who usually left blank areas for illustration and rubrication. Finally, the book was bound by the bookbinder.\nDifferent types of ink were known in antiquity, usually prepared from soot and gum, and later also from gall nuts and iron vitriol. This gave writing a brownish black color, but black or brown were not the only colors used. There are texts written in red or even gold, and different colors were used for illumination. For very luxurious manuscripts the whole parchment was colored purple, and the text was written on it with gold or silver (for example, Codex Argenteus).\n\nIrish monks introduced spacing between words in the 7th century. This facilitated reading, as these monks tended to be less familiar with Latin. However, the use of spaces between words did not become commonplace before the 12th century. It has been argued that the use of spacing between words shows the transition from semi-vocalized reading into silent reading.\n\nThe first books used parchment or vellum (calfskin) for the pages. The book covers were made of wood and covered with leather. Because dried parchment tends to assume the form it had before processing, the books were fitted with clasps or straps. During the later Middle Ages, when public libraries appeared, up to the 18th century, books were often chained to a bookshelf or a desk to prevent theft. These chained books are called \"libri catenati\".\n\nAt first, books were copied mostly in monasteries, one at a time. With the rise of universities in the 13th century, the Manuscript culture of the time led to an increase in the demand for books, and a new system for copying books appeared. The books were divided into unbound leaves (\"pecia\"), which were lent out to different copyists, so the speed of book production was considerably increased. The system was maintained by secular stationers guilds, which produced both religious and non-religious material.\n\nJudaism has kept the art of the scribe alive up to the present. According to Jewish tradition, the Torah scroll placed in a synagogue must be written by hand on parchment and a printed book would not do, though the congregation may use printed prayer books and printed copies of the Scriptures are used for study outside the synagogue. A sofer \"scribe\" is a highly respected member of any observant Jewish community.\n\nPeople of various religious (Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians, Muslims) and ethnic backgrounds (Syriac, Coptic, Persian, Arab etc.) in the Middle East also produced and bound books in the Islamic Golden Age (mid 8th century to 1258), developing advanced techniques in Islamic calligraphy, miniatures and bookbinding. A number of cities in the medieval Islamic world had book production centers and book markets. Yaqubi (d. 897) says that in his time Baghdad had over a hundred booksellers. Book shops were often situated around the town's principal mosque as in Marrakesh, Morocco, that has a street named \"Kutubiyyin\" or book sellers in English and the famous Koutoubia Mosque is named so because of its location in this street.\n\nThe medieval Muslim world also used a method of reproducing reliable copies of a book in large quantities known as check reading, in contrast to the traditional method of a single scribe producing only a single copy of a single manuscript. In the check reading method, only \"authors could authorize copies, and this was done in public sessions in which the copyist read the copy aloud in the presence of the author, who then certified it as accurate.\" With this check-reading system, \"an author might produce a dozen or more copies from a single reading,\" and with two or more readings, \"more than one hundred copies of a single book could easily be produced.\" By using as writing material the relatively cheap paper instead of parchment or papyrus the Muslims, in the words of Pedersen \"accomplished a feat of crucial significance not only to the history of the Islamic book, but also to the whole world of books\".\n\nIn woodblock printing, a relief image of an entire page was carved into blocks of wood, inked, and used to print copies of that page. This method originated in China, in the Han dynasty (before 220 AD), as a method of printing on textiles and later paper, and was widely used throughout East Asia. The oldest dated book printed by this method is \"The Diamond Sutra\" (868 AD).The method (called \"Woodcut\" when used in art) arrived in Europe in the early 14th century. Books (known as block-books), as well as playing-cards and religious pictures, began to be produced by this method. Creating an entire book was a painstaking process, requiring a hand-carved block for each page; and the wood blocks tended to crack, if stored for long. The monks or people who wrote them were paid highly.\n\nThe Chinese inventor Bi Sheng made movable type of earthenware c. 1045, but there are no known surviving examples of his printing. Around 1450, in what is commonly regarded as an independent invention, Johannes Gutenberg invented movable type in Europe, along with innovations in casting the type based on a matrix and hand mould. This invention gradually made books less expensive to produce, and more widely available.\n\nEarly printed books, single sheets and images which were created before 1501 in Europe are known as incunables or \"incunabula\". \"A man born in 1453, the year of the fall of Constantinople, could look back from his fiftieth year on a lifetime in which about eight million books had been printed, more perhaps than all the scribes of Europe had produced since Constantine founded his city in AD 330.\"\n\nSteam-powered printing presses became popular in the early 19th century. These machines could print 1,100 sheets per hour, but workers could only set 2,000 letters per hour. Monotype and linotype typesetting machines were introduced in the late 19th century. They could set more than 6,000 letters per hour and an entire line of type at once. There have been numerous improvements in the printing press. As well, the conditions for freedom of the press have been improved through the gradual relaxation of restrictive censorship laws. See also intellectual property, public domain, copyright. In mid-20th century, European book production had risen to over 200,000 titles per year.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, libraries have faced an ever-increasing rate of publishing, sometimes called an information explosion. The advent of electronic publishing and the internet means that much new information is not printed in paper books, but is made available online through a digital library, on CD-ROM, in the form of e-books or other online media. An on-line book is an e-book that is available online through the internet. Though many books are produced digitally, most digital versions are not available to the public, and there is no decline in the rate of paper publishing. There is an effort, however, to convert books that are in the public domain into a digital medium for unlimited redistribution and infinite availability. This effort is spearheaded by Project Gutenberg combined with Distributed Proofreaders. There have also been new developments in the process of publishing books. Technologies such as POD or \"print on demand\", which make it possible to print as few as one book at a time, have made self-publishing (and vanity publishing) much easier and more affordable. On-demand publishing has allowed publishers, by avoiding the high costs of warehousing, to keep low-selling books in print rather than declaring them out of print.\n\nThe methods used for the printing and binding of books continued fundamentally unchanged from the 15th century into the early 20th century. While there was more mechanization, a book printer in 1900 had much in common with Gutenberg. Gutenberg's invention was the use of movable metal types, assembled into words, lines, and pages and then printed by letterpress to create multiple copies. Modern paper books are printed on papers designed specifically for printed books. Traditionally, book papers are off-white or low-white papers (easier to read), are opaque to minimise the show-through of text from one side of the page to the other and are (usually) made to tighter caliper or thickness specifications, particularly for case-bound books. Different paper qualities are used depending on the type of book: Machine finished coated papers, woodfree uncoated papers, coated fine papers and special fine papers are common paper grades.\n\nToday, the majority of books are printed by offset lithography. When a book is printed, the pages are laid out on the plate so that after the printed sheet is folded the pages will be in the correct sequence. Books tend to be manufactured nowadays in a few standard sizes. The sizes of books are usually specified as \"trim size\": the size of the page after the sheet has been folded and trimmed. The standard sizes result from sheet sizes (therefore machine sizes) which became popular 200 or 300 years ago, and have come to dominate the industry. British conventions in this regard prevail throughout the English-speaking world, except for the USA. The European book manufacturing industry works to a completely different set of standards.\n\nModern bound books are organized according to a particular format called the book's \"layout\". Although there is great variation in layout, modern books tend to adhere to as set of rules with regard to what the parts of the layout are and what their content usually includes. A basic layout will include a \"front cover\", a \"back cover\", and the book's content which is called its \"body copy\" or \"content pages\". The front cover often bears the book's title (and subtitle, if any) and the name of its author or editor(s). The \"inside front cover\" page is usually left blank in both hardcover and paperback books. The next section, if present, is the book's \"front matter\", which includes all textual material after the front cover but not part of the book's content— such things as a forward, a dedication, and a table of contents as well as publisher data such as the book's edition or printing number and place of publication. Between the body copy and the back cover goes the \"end matter\" which would include any indices, sets of tables, or diagrams, glossaries, or lists of cited works (though an edited book with multiple contributing authors usually places cited works at the end of each authored chapter). The \"inside back cover\" page, like that inside the front cover, is usually blank. The \"back cover\" itself is the usual place for the book's ISBN, and maybe a photograph of the author(s)/ editor(s), perhaps with a short introduction to them. Also here often appear plot summaries, barcodes, and excerpted reviews of the book.\n\nSome books, particularly those with shorter runs (i.e. fewer copies) will be printed on sheet-fed offset presses, but most books are now printed on web presses, which are fed by a continuous roll of paper, and can consequently print more copies in a shorter time. As the production line circulates, a complete \"book\" is collected together in one stack, next to another, and another A web press carries out the folding itself, delivering bundles of \"signatures\" (sections) ready to go into the gathering line. Note that the pages of a book are printed two at a time, not as one complete book. Excess numbers are printed to make up for any spoilage due to make-readies or test pages to assure final print quality.\n\nA \"make-ready\" is the preparatory work carried out by the pressmen to get the printing press up to the required quality of impression. Included in make-ready is the time taken to mount the plate onto the machine, clean up any mess from the previous job, and get the press up to speed. As soon as the pressman decides that the printing is correct, all the make-ready sheets will be discarded, and the press will start making books. Similar make readies take place in the folding and binding areas, each involving spoilage of paper.\n\nAfter the signatures are folded and gathered, they move into the bindery. In the middle of last century there were still many trade binders – stand-alone binding companies which did no printing, specializing in binding alone. At that time, because of the dominance of letterpress printing, typesetting and printing took place in one location, and binding in a different factory. When type was all metal, a typical book's worth of type would be bulky, fragile and heavy. The less it was moved in this condition the better: so printing would be carried out in the same location as the typesetting. Printed sheets on the other hand could easily be moved. Now, because of increasing computerization of preparing a book for the printer, the typesetting part of the job has flowed upstream, where it is done either by separately contracting companies working for the publisher, by the publishers themselves, or even by the authors. Mergers in the book manufacturing industry mean that it is now unusual to find a bindery which is not also involved in book printing (and vice versa).\n\nIf the book is a hardback its path through the bindery will involve more points of activity than if it is a paperback. Unsewn binding, is now increasingly common. The signatures of a book can also be held together by \"Smyth sewing\" using needles, \"McCain sewing\", using drilled holes often used in schoolbook binding, or \"notch binding\", where gashes about an inch long are made at intervals through the fold in the spine of each signature. The rest of the binding process is similar in all instances. Sewn and notch bound books can be bound as either hardbacks or paperbacks.\n\n\"Making cases\" happens off-line and prior to the book's arrival at the binding line. In the most basic case-making, two pieces of cardboard are placed onto a glued piece of cloth with a space between them into which is glued a thinner board cut to the width of the spine of the book. The overlapping edges of the cloth (about 5/8\" all round) are folded over the boards, and pressed down to adhere. After case-making the stack of cases will go to the foil stamping area for adding decorations and type.\n\nRecent developments in book manufacturing include the development of digital printing. Book pages are printed, in much the same way as an office copier works, using toner rather than ink. Each book is printed in one pass, not as separate signatures. Digital printing has permitted the manufacture of much smaller quantities than offset, in part because of the absence of make readies and of spoilage. One might think of a web press as printing quantities over 2000, quantities from 250 to 2000 being printed on sheet-fed presses, and digital presses doing quantities below 250. These numbers are of course only approximate and will vary from supplier to supplier, and from book to book depending on its characteristics. Digital printing has opened up the possibility of print-on-demand, where no books are printed until after an order is received from a customer.\n\nIn the 2000s, due to the rise in availability of affordable handheld computing devices, the opportunity to share texts through electronic means became an appealing option for media publishers. Thus, the \"e-book\" was made. The term e-book is a contraction of \"electronic book\"; it refers to a book-length publication in digital form. An e-book is usually made available through the internet, but also on CD-ROM and other forms. E-Books may be read either via a computing device with an LED display such as a traditional computer, a smartphone or a tablet computer; or by means of a portable e-ink display device known as an e-book reader, such as the Sony Reader, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo eReader, or the Amazon Kindle. E-book readers attempt to mimic the experience of reading a print book by using this technology, since the displays on e-book readers are much less reflective.\n\nBook design is the art of incorporating the content, style, format, design, and sequence of the various components of a book into a coherent whole. In the words of Jan Tschichold, book design \"though largely forgotten today, methods and rules upon which it is impossible to improve have been developed over centuries. To produce perfect books these rules have to be brought back to life and applied.\" Richard Hendel describes book design as \"an arcane subject\" and refers to the need for a context to understand what that means. Many different creators can contribute to book design, including graphic designers, artists and editors.\n\nThe size of a modern book is based on the printing area of a common flatbed press. The pages of type were arranged and clamped in a frame, so that when printed on a sheet of paper the full size of the press, the pages would be right side up and in order when the sheet was folded, and the folded edges trimmed.\n\nThe most common book sizes are:\n\nSizes smaller than 16mo are:\n\nSmall books can be called \"booklets\".\n\nSizes larger than quarto are:\n\nThe largest extant medieval manuscript in the world is Codex Gigas 92 × 50 × 22 cm. The world's largest book is made of stone and is in Kuthodaw Pagoda (Burma).\n\nA common separation by content are fiction and non-fiction books. This simple separation can be found in most collections, libraries, and bookstores.\n\nMany of the books published today are fiction, meaning that they are in-part or completely untrue. Historically, paper production was considered too expensive to be used for entertainment. An increase in global literacy and print technology led to the increased publication of books for the purpose of entertainment, and allegorical social commentary. Most fiction is additionally categorized by genre.\n\nThe novel is the most common form of fiction book. Novels are stories that typically feature a plot, setting, themes and characters. Stories and narrative are not restricted to any topic; a novel can be whimsical, serious or controversial. The novel has had a tremendous impact on entertainment and publishing markets. A novella is a term sometimes used for fiction prose typically between 17,500 and 40,000 words, and a novelette between 7,500 and 17,500. A short story may be any length up to 10,000 words, but these word lengths vary.\n\nComic books or graphic novels are books in which the story is illustrated. The characters and narrators use speech or thought bubbles to express verbal language.\n\nIn a library, a reference book is a general type of non-fiction book which provides information as opposed to telling a story, essay, commentary, or otherwise supporting a point of view. An almanac is a very general reference book, usually one-volume, with lists of data and information on many topics. An encyclopedia is a book or set of books designed to have more in-depth articles on many topics. A book listing words, their etymology, meanings, and other information is called a dictionary. A book which is a collection of maps is an atlas. A more specific reference book with tables or lists of data and information about a certain topic, often intended for professional use, is often called a handbook. Books which try to list references and abstracts in a certain broad area may be called an index, such as \"Engineering Index\", or abstracts such as chemical abstracts and biological abstracts.\nBooks with technical information on how to do something or how to use some equipment are called instruction manuals. Other popular how-to books include cookbooks and home improvement books.\n\nStudents typically store and carry textbooks and schoolbooks for study purposes. Elementary school pupils often use workbooks, which are published with spaces or blanks to be filled by them for study or homework. In US higher education, it is common for a student to take an exam using a blue book.\n\nThere is a large set of books that are made only to write private ideas, notes, and accounts. These books are rarely published and are typically destroyed or remain private. Notebooks are blank papers to be written in by the user. Students and writers commonly use them for taking notes. Scientists and other researchers use lab notebooks to record their notes. They often feature spiral coil bindings at the edge so that pages may easily be torn out.\n\nAddress books, phone books, and calendar/appointment books are commonly used on a daily basis for recording appointments, meetings and personal contact information.\n\nBooks for recording periodic entries by the user, such as daily information about a journey, are called logbooks or simply logs. A similar book for writing the owner's daily private personal events, information, and ideas is called a diary or personal journal.\n\nBusinesses use accounting books such as journals and ledgers to record financial data in a practice called bookkeeping.\n\nThere are several other types of books which are not commonly found under this system. Albums are books for holding a group of items belonging to a particular theme, such as a set of photographs, card collections, and memorabilia. One common example is stamp albums, which are used by many hobbyists to protect and organize their collections of postage stamps. Such albums are often made using removable plastic pages held inside in a ringed binder or other similar holder. Picture books are books for children with pictures on every page and less text (or even no text).\n\nHymnals are books with collections of musical hymns that can typically be found in churches. Prayerbooks or missals are books that contain written prayers and are commonly carried by monks, nuns, and other devoted followers or clergy.\n\nA leveled book collection is a set of books organized in levels of difficulty from the easy books appropriate for an emergent reader to longer more complex books adequate for advanced readers. Decodable readers or books are a specialized type of leveled books that use decodable text only including controlled lists of words, sentences and stories consistent with the letters and phonics that have been taught to the emergent reader. New sounds and letters are added to higher level decodable books, as the level of instruction progresses, allowing for higher levels of accuracy, comprehension and fluency.\n\nHardcover books have a stiff binding. Paperback books have cheaper, flexible covers which tend to be less durable. An alternative to paperback is the glossy cover, otherwise known as a dust cover, found on magazines, and comic books. Spiral-bound books are bound by spirals made of metal or plastic. Examples of spiral-bound books include teachers' manuals and puzzle books (crosswords, sudoku).\n\nPublishing is a process for producing pre-printed books, magazines, and newspapers for the reader/user to buy.\n\nPublishers may produce low-cost, pre-publication copies known as galleys or 'bound proofs' for promotional purposes, such as generating reviews in advance of publication. Galleys are usually made as cheaply as possible, since they are not intended for sale.\n\nPrivate or personal libraries made up of non-fiction and fiction books, (as opposed to the state or institutional records kept in archives) first appeared in classical Greece. In the ancient world, the maintaining of a library was usually (but not exclusively) the privilege of a wealthy individual. These libraries could have been either private or public, i.e. for people who were interested in using them. The difference from a modern public library lies in the fact that they were usually not funded from public sources. It is estimated that in the city of Rome at the end of the 3rd century there were around 30 public libraries. Public libraries also existed in other cities of the ancient Mediterranean region (for example, Library of Alexandria). Later, in the Middle Ages, monasteries and universities had also libraries that could be accessible to general public. Typically not the whole collection was available to public, the books could not be borrowed and often were chained to reading stands to prevent theft.\n\nThe beginning of modern public library begins around 15th century when individuals started to donate books to towns. The growth of a public library system in the United States started in the late 19th century and was much helped by donations from Andrew Carnegie. This reflected classes in a society: The poor or the middle class had to access most books through a public library or by other means while the rich could afford to have a private library built in their homes. In the United States the Boston Public Library 1852 \"Report of the Trustees\" established the justification for the public library as a tax-supported institution intended to extend educational opportunity and provide for general culture.\n\nThe advent of paperback books in the 20th century led to an explosion of popular publishing. Paperback books made owning books affordable for many people. Paperback books often included works from genres that had previously been published mostly in pulp magazines. As a result of the low cost of such books and the spread of bookstores filled with them (in addition to the creation of a smaller market of extremely cheap used paperbacks) owning a private library ceased to be a status symbol for the rich.\n\nIn library and booksellers' catalogues, it is common to include an abbreviation such as \"Crown 8vo\" to indicate the paper size from which the book is made.\n\nWhen rows of books are lined on a book holder, bookends are sometimes needed to keep them from slanting.\n\nDuring the 20th century, librarians were concerned about keeping track of the many books being added yearly to the Gutenberg Galaxy. Through a global society called the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), they devised a series of tools including the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD). Each book is specified by an International Standard Book Number, or ISBN, which is unique to every edition of every book produced by participating publishers, worldwide. It is managed by the ISBN Society. An ISBN has four parts: the first part is the country code, the second the publisher code, and the third the title code. The last part is a check digit, and can take values from 0–9 and X (10). The EAN Barcodes numbers for books are derived from the ISBN by prefixing 978, for Bookland, and calculating a new check digit.\n\nCommercial publishers in industrialized countries generally assign ISBNs to their books, so buyers may presume that the ISBN is part of a total international system, with no exceptions. However, many government publishers, in industrial as well as developing countries, do not participate fully in the ISBN system, and publish books which do not have ISBNs. A large or public collection requires a catalogue. Codes called \"call numbers\" relate the books to the catalogue, and determine their locations on the shelves. Call numbers are based on a Library classification system. The call number is placed on the spine of the book, normally a short distance before the bottom, and inside. Institutional or national standards, such as ANSI/NISO Z39.41 - 1997, establish the correct way to place information (such as the title, or the name of the author) on book spines, and on \"shelvable\" book-like objects, such as containers for DVDs, video tapes and software.\nOne of the earliest and most widely known systems of cataloguing books is the Dewey Decimal System. Another widely known system is the Library of Congress Classification system. Both systems are biased towards subjects which were well represented in US libraries when they were developed, and hence have problems handling new subjects, such as computing, or subjects relating to other cultures. Information about books and authors can be stored in databases like online general-interest book databases. Metadata, which means \"data about data\" is information about a book. Metadata about a book may include its title, ISBN or other classification number (see above), the names of contributors (author, editor, illustrator) and publisher, its date and size, the language of the text, its subject matter, etc.\n\n\nAside from the primary purpose of reading them, books are also used for other ends:\n\nOnce the book is published, it is put on the market by the distributors and the bookstores. Meanwhile, his promotion comes from various media reports. Book marketing is governed by the law in many states.\n\nIn recent years, the book had a second life in the form of reading aloud. This is called public readings of published works, with the assistance of professional readers (often known actors) and in close collaboration with writers, publishers, booksellers, librarians, leaders of the literary world and artists.\n\nMany individual or collective practices exist to increase the number of readers of a book. Among them:\n\nThis form of the book chain has hardly changed since the eighteenth century, and has not always been this way. Thus, the author has asserted gradually with time, and the copyright dates only from the nineteenth century. For many centuries, especially before the invention of printing, each freely copied out books that passed through his hands, adding if necessary his own comments. Similarly, bookseller and publisher jobs have emerged with the invention of printing, which made the book an industrial product, requiring structures of production and marketing.\n\nThe invention of the Internet, e-readers, tablets, and projects like Wikipedia and Gutenberg, are likely to strongly change the book industry in the years to come.\n\nPaper was first made in China as early as 200 BC, and reached Europe through Muslim territories. At first made of rags, the industrial revolution changed paper-making practices, allowing for paper to be made out of wood pulp. Papermaking in Europe began in the 11th century, although vellum was also common there as page material up until the beginning of the 16th century, vellum being the more expensive and durable option. Printers or publishers would often issue the same publication on both materials, to cater to more than one market.\n\nPaper made from wood pulp became popular in the early 20th century, because it was cheaper than linen or abaca cloth-based papers. Pulp-based paper made books less expensive to the general public. This paved the way for huge leaps in the rate of literacy in industrialised nations, and enabled the spread of information during the Second Industrial Revolution.\n\nPulp paper, however, contains acid which eventually destroys the paper from within. Earlier techniques for making paper used limestone rollers, which neutralized the acid in the pulp. Books printed between 1850 and 1950 are primarily at risk; more recent books are often printed on acid-free or alkaline paper. Libraries today have to consider mass deacidification of their older collections in order to prevent decay.\n\nStability of the climate is critical to the long-term preservation of paper and book material. Good air circulation is important to keep fluctuation in climate stable. The HVAC system should be up to date and functioning efficiently. Light is detrimental to collections. Therefore, care should be given to the collections by implementing light control. General housekeeping issues can be addressed, including pest control. In addition to these helpful solutions, a library must also make an effort to be prepared if a disaster occurs, one that they cannot control. Time and effort should be given to create a concise and effective disaster plan to counteract any damage incurred through \"acts of God\" therefore an emergency management plan should be in place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36474477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36474477", "title": "Boresch III of Ossegg and Riesenburg", "text": "Boresch III of Ossegg and Riesenburg\n\nBoresch III of Ossegg and Riesenburg (died before 1312) was a Bohemian aristocrat of the House of Riesenburg.\n\nThe son of Boresch II (also \"Bohuslav II\") was a member of the regional court (\"Landgericht\") in 1291. At the end of the 13th century ore mining flourished on the Riesenburg estates. On 22 March 1302 he signed a treaty with the abbot of Ossegg, wherein he agreed to share the mining profits with Osek Abbey.\n\nFollowing the death of King Wenceslaus II and the murder of his successor, Wenceslaus III one year later, a new wave of violence swept through Bohemia, as the powerful princes attempted to extend their estates and wealth during the interregnum. Church assets were seized, but attempts were also made to rectify the injustices of the past.\n\nBoresch, too, could not resist further extending his power. In 1307 he was named as the owner of Sayda, this time however not as part of the Bohemian Empire but as an enfeoffment from the Margraviate of Meissen.\n\nHe was only mentioned once more before his death. In the treaty documents of 1312 his name no longer appears.\n\n"}
{"id": "38823094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38823094", "title": "Bug Dome", "text": "Bug Dome\n\nBug Dome was a bamboo shelter created for the Shenzhen & Hong Kong bi-city Biennale of Urbanism/Architecture in Shenzhen 2009, China by a group of architects calling themselves WEAK!\n\nThe Bug Dome was inspired by the homes built by insects. It was designed to be a sheltered area where underground band performances, poetry readings, and discussions could take place during the SZHK Biennale. After the Biennale, the shelter continued to be used as gathering place for illegal workers from the Chinese countryside, many of whom were living in nearby shelters and abandoned buildings.\n\nWEAK! was a collaboration of Hsieh Ying-Chun, a Taiwan architectural activist specializing at collaborative construction and sustainable construction, Roan Ching-Yueh, an architect, curator and art critic, and Marco Casagrande, a Finnish architect, founder of C-lab. The WEAK! architects create their projects by recomposing existing materials with minimal effort to total impact. The 'bug dome' was constructed out of bamboo and weak concrete in the form of cement mixed with soil.\n\nAll the necessary materials were collected from around the building site and will return to the natural environment when the Dome is no longer needed.\n"}
{"id": "47709942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47709942", "title": "Canadian GeoAlliance", "text": "Canadian GeoAlliance\n\nGeoAlliance Canada is a Umbrella organization founded in 2015. The organization addresses sector-wide strategic priorities by pooling the energy and resources of existing Canadian business, non-profit, academia and government organizations in the Geomatics sector.\n\nGeoAlliance Canada was formed by the Canadian Gemoatics Community Round Table, a collaborative group of professionals from all fields of the Geomatics. The group met regularly to consider the challenges that the industry would be facing in the upcoming years, propose solutions and strategies that could help guide the direction of the sector and strengthen it for the years to come. Seven strategy dimensions were used to create the Pan-Canadian Geomatics Strategy document with input from the geospatial community that helped the strategy development process, leading to the formation of GeoAlliance Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "1040030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040030", "title": "Chamber tumulus", "text": "Chamber tumulus\n\nA Chamber Tumulus is a large megalithic construct found in certain early neolithic societies. They have been uncovered along the Atlantic coastline in northern Europe, in countries such as France, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. These megaliths have also been found in southern Scandinavia, primarily in Scania and Falbygden. In Denmark there are numerous older megaliths, less advanced that the versions elsewhere, thought to be monuments marking communal burial places.\n\nThe chamber tumuli predate the ancient Egyptian pyramids, dating back to circa 6000-3000 B.C., depending on place of construction. Before the large farming reforms of the 19th century there were supposed to have been at least 10,000 of the older megaliths in Denmark. The more sophisticated later version does not appear in Denmark.\n\nThe practice of building these monuments is conjectured to have originated in Ireland or on the Atlantic coast of France where the oldest and largest versions of the monuments has been risen.\n\nThe newest of those monuments are located in Scandinavia, but pale in sophistication and complexity when compared with the megaliths along the Atlantic coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "46714025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46714025", "title": "Cretica Chronica", "text": "Cretica Chronica\n\nCretica Chronica or Kretika Chronika (; Cretan annals) is a peer-reviewed academic journal published annually by the Society of Cretan Historical Studies () on the history, archaeology, culture, and folklore of the island of Crete. The journal was established in 1947, and is published in Heraklion, Greece. The current editor-in-chief is Alexis Kalokerinos. Articles are published in English, French, German, Greek, or Italian.\n\nAndreas G. Kalokerinos served as Chronica's editor-in-chief from its inception until 1973, for a total of 25 volumes. Two further volumes were published in 1986 and 1987 by Crete University Press, and two more in 1988–1990 by the Vikelaia Municipal Library of Heraklion, along with a volume of indices in 1994. The journal was revived in 2011, publishing one issue per year, with publication undertaken by the Society of Cretan Historical Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "23599430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23599430", "title": "Critical habitat", "text": "Critical habitat\n\nCritical habitat is a habitat area essential to the conservation of a listed species, though the area need not actually be occupied by the species at the time it is designated. This is a specific term and designation within the U.S. Endangered Species Act-ESA \n\nCritical habitat must be designated for all threatened species and endangered species under the Endangered Species Act, with certain specified exceptions. Designations of critical habitats must be based on the best scientific information available and in an open public process within specific timeframes.\n\nA critical habitat designation does not set up a preserve or refuge; it applies only when Federal funding, permits, or projects are involved. Under Section 7 of the ESA, all Federal agencies must ensure that any actions they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species, or destroy or adversely modify its designated critical habitat.\n\nBefore designating critical habitat, careful consideration must be given to the economic impacts, impacts on national security, and other relevant impacts of specifying any particular area as critical habitat. An area may be excluded from critical habitat if the benefits of exclusion outweigh the benefits of designation, unless excluding the area will result in the extinction of the species concerned.\n\nCritical habitat requirements do not apply to citizens engaged in activities on private land that do not involve a Federal agency. However, if an activity on property property requires an action by a Federal agency (such as a loan, increasing irrigation flows, permits from a federal agency, etc.), then the Federal agency must ensure that the action will not adversely modify the designated critical habitat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1025190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1025190", "title": "Defeatism", "text": "Defeatism\n\nDefeatism is the acceptance of defeat without struggle, often with negative connotations. It can be linked to pessimism in psychology.\nThe term \"defeatism\" commonly is used in politics as a descriptor for an ideological stance that considers co-operation with the opposition party. In the military context, in wartime, and especially at the front, \"defeatism\" is synonymous with treason.\n\nUnder military law, a soldier can be accused of being defeatist if he refuses to fight by voicing doubt of the ideological validity of national policy; thus, existential questions such as “Is the war already lost?” and “Is the fight worth the effort?” are defeatism that connote advocacy of an alternative end-to-the war other than military victory.\n\nDuring World War II, Adolf Hitler unexpectedly dismissed many generals for defeatism. During the last year of war, the German people's court executed many people accused of defeatist talks or acts and their names were announced weekly in a pink colored poster pasted on billboards around the country.\n\nRevolutionary defeatism is a related idea, made most prominent by Vladimir Lenin, that establishes that the proletariat cannot win or gain in a capitalist war. Instead, according to Lenin, the true enemy of the proletariat is the imperialist leaders who send their lower classes into battle. Workers would gain more from their own nations’ defeats, he argued, if the war could be turned into civil war and then international revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2645791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645791", "title": "Defective script", "text": "Defective script\n\nA defective script is a writing system that does not represent all the phonemic distinctions of a language. For example, Italian has seven vowels, but the Italian alphabet has only five vowel letters to represent them; in general, the difference between close and open is simply ignored, though stress marks, if used, may distinguish them. Among the consonants, both and are written , and both and are written , though not many words are distinguished by the latter. Stress and hiatus are not reliably distinguished.\n\nSuch shortcomings are not uncommon. The Greek alphabet was defective during its early history. Ancient Greek had distinctive vowel length: five short vowels, , and seven long vowels, . When the Phoenician alphabet was adapted to Greek, the names of five letters were pronounced by the Greeks with initial consonants made silent, and were then used acrophonically to represent vowels. These were \"alpha\", \"e\" (later called \"e psilon\"), \"iota\", \"o\" (later called \"o micron\"), and \"u\" (later called \"u psilon\") – <> – five letters for twelve vowel sounds. Later the [h] dropped from the Eastern Greek dialects, and the letter \"heta\" (now pronounced \"eta\") became available; it was used for . About the same time the Greeks created an additional letter, \"o mega\", probably by writing \"o micron\" with an underline, that was used for . Digraphs \"ei\" and \"ou\" were adopted for and Thus Greek entered its classical era with seven letters and two digraphs – <> – for twelve vowel sounds. Long were never distinguished from short , even though the distinction was meaningful. Although the Greek alphabet was a good match to the consonants of the language, it was defective when it came to some vowels.\n\nOther ancient scripts were also defective. Egyptian hieroglyphs had no vowel representation at all, while the cuneiform script frequently failed to distinguish among a consonant triad like /t/, /d/ and /t'/ (emphatic /t/), or between the vowels /e/ and /i/. \n\nLanguages with a long literary history have a tendency to freeze spelling at an early stage, leaving subsequent pronunciation shifts unrecorded. Such is the case with English, French, Greek, Hebrew, Persian, and Thai, among others. By contrast, some writing systems have been periodically respelled in accordance with changed pronunciation, such as Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish, Irish Gaelic, and Japanese hiragana. \n\nA broadly defective script is the Arabic abjad. The modern script does not normally write short vowels, but for the first few centuries of the Islamic era, long vowels were not written and many consonant letters were ambiguous as well. The Arabic script derives from the Aramaic, and not only did the Aramaic language have fewer phonemes than Arabic, but several originally distinct Aramaic letters had conflated (become indistinguishable in shape), so that in the early Arabic writings 28 consonant phonemes were represented by only 18 letters—and in the middle of words, only 15 were distinct. For example, medial represented , and represented . A system of diacritic marks, or \"pointing,\" was later developed to resolve the ambiguities, and over the centuries became nearly universal. However, even today unpointed texts of a style called \" are found, where these consonants are not distinguished.\n\nWithout short vowels or geminate consonants being written, modern Arabic \" could represent 'he saw', 'he compared', 'he was seen', 'he was compared', 'a glance', or 'similar'. However, in practice there is little ambiguity, as the vowels are more easily predictable in Arabic than they are in a language like English. Moreover, the defective nature of the script has its benefits: the stable shape of the root words, despite grammatical inflection, results in quicker word recognition and therefore faster reading speeds; and the lack of short vowels, the sounds which vary the most between Arabic dialects, makes texts more widely accessible to a diverse audience.\n\nHowever, in ' and those styles of \"kufic\" writing which lack consonant pointing, the ambiguities are more serious, for here different roots are written the same. could represent the root ' 'see' as above, but also ' 'protect', ' 'pride', \"\" 'clitoris' or 'with flint', as well as several inflections and derivations of each of these root words.\n\nThe Arabic alphabet has been adopted by many Muslim peoples to write their languages. In them, new consonant letters have been devised for sounds lacking in Arabic (e.g. , , , and in Persian; all the aspirate and retroflex stops in Sindhi). But rarely have the full set of vowels been represented in those new alphabets: Ottoman Turkish had eight vowels, but used only three letters to notate them. However, some adaptions of the Arabic alphabet do unambiguously mark all vowels: those for Bosnian, Kashmiri, Kurdish, Kyrgyz, and Uyghur.\n\nWhen a defective script is written with diacritics or other conventions to indicate all phonemic distinctions, the result is called \"plene\" writing.\n\nDefectiveness is a cline: the Semitic \"abjads\" do not indicate all vowels, but there are also alphabets which mark vowels but not tone (e.g. many African languages), or vowel quality but not vowel length (e.g. Latin). Even if English orthography were regularized, the English alphabet would still be incapable of unambiguously conveying intonation, though since this is not expected of scripts, it is not normally counted as defectiveness.\n"}
{"id": "32180128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32180128", "title": "East European Politics and Societies", "text": "East European Politics and Societies\n\nEast European Politics and Societies is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of political science, especially concerning international relations of Eastern Europe. The journal's editors-in-chief are Wendy Bracewell (University College London) and Krzysztof Jasiewicz (Washington and Lee University). It was established in 1986 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with the American Council of Learned Societies and the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies.\n\n\"East European Politics and Societies\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 0.817, ranking it 117 out of 169 journals in the category \"Political Science\" and 25 out of 68 journals in the category \"Area Studies.\" \n"}
{"id": "52774931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52774931", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Malaysia", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Malaysia\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Malaysia () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Malaysia. It is located in Kuala Lumpur.\n\n"}
{"id": "1340927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1340927", "title": "Eretz Israel Museum", "text": "Eretz Israel Museum\n\nThe Eretz Israel Museum is a historical and archeological museum in the Ramat Aviv neighborhood of Tel Aviv, Israel.\n\nEretz Israel Museum, established in 1953, has a large display of archaeological, anthropological and historical artifacts organized in a series of exhibition pavilions on its grounds. Each pavilion is dedicated to a different subject: glassware, ceramics, coins, copper and more. The museum also has a planetarium.\n\nThe \"Man and His Work\" wing features live demonstrations of ancient methods of weaving, jewelry and pottery making, grain grinding and bread baking. Tel Quasile, an excavation in which 12 distinct layers of culture have been uncovered, is on the grounds of the museum.\nInside the pavilion, visitors find themselves in a reconstructed mine from the Chalcolithic period and the Late Bronze Age, showing marks of mining tools such as stone hammers, flint blades and copper chisels.\n\nFour smelting furnaces are on display:\n\nRemnants of a glass furnace from the 13th century CE were discovered alongside the Crusader fortress at Sommelaria, north of Acre.\n\nIn the 14th century BCE, the Egyptian pharaohs dispatched mining expeditions to Timna. Alongside expert metalsmiths from the Land of Midian, they extracted copper at Timna until the early 12th century BCE. This pavilion houses a Midianite temple model. Of special interest is the copper snake with gilded head found in the shrine, perhaps pointing to the biblical Nehushtan (2 Kings 18:4) (\"a brazen thing\").\n\nThis pavilion exhibits ancient glass vessels. The exhibition is divided into three sections, representing three eras in the history of glass production: pre-blown glass (Late Bronze Age to Hellenistic period—15th-1st centuries BCE), blown glass of the Roman and Byzantine periods (1st–7th centuries CE); and blown glass of the Islamic period (7th–15th centuries CE). Two rare vessels on display are a delicate drinking horn with two openings, known by its Greek name \"rhyton\", and \"Ennion's Blue Jug\" bearing the signature of its maker, who lived in the first half of the 1st century CE.\n\nThe pavilion recounts the history of postal service in the Land of Israel from the mid-15th century until the founding of the state in 1948. On display are envelopes, letters, photographs, posters, mailboxes and telephones, as well as a mail truck from 1949.\n\nThe philatelic wing displays valuable and rare stamps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "788082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788082", "title": "Ernst Barlach", "text": "Ernst Barlach\n\nErnst Barlach (2 January 1870 in Wedel – 24 October 1938 in Rostock) was a German expressionist sculptor, printmaker and writer. Although he was a supporter of the war in the years leading to World War I, his participation in the war made him change his position, and he is mostly known for his sculptures protesting against the war. This created many conflicts during the rise of the Nazi Party, when most of his works were confiscated as degenerate art.\n\nBarlach was born in Wedel, Holstein as the oldest of the four sons of Johanna Luise Barlach and Dr Georg Barlach. He attended primary school in Ratzeburg. It was during this period that his father died, early in 1884. He came from a Lutheran home.\n\nBarlach studied from 1888 to 1891 at the Gewerbeschule Hamburg. Due to his artistic talent, he continued his studies at the \"Königliche Akademie der bildenden Künste zu Dresden\" (Royal Art School Dresden) as a student of Robert Diez between 1891 and 1895. He created his first major sculpture during this time, \"Die Krautpflückerin\" (The Herb Plucker). He continued his studies for one more year in Paris at the Académie Julian, from 1895 to 1897 but remained critical of the German tendency to copy the style of French artists. Nevertheless, he returned to Paris again for a few months in 1897 to undertake further studies.\n\nAfter his studies, Barlach worked for some time as a sculptor in Hamburg and Altona, working mainly in an Art Nouveau style. He produced illustrations for the Art Nouveau magazine Jugend 1897–1902, and made sculpture in a style close to Art Nouveau, including some ceramic statues. Afterwards, he also worked as a teacher at a school for ceramics. His first solo exhibition took place at the Kunstsalon Richard Mutz, Berlin, in 1904.\n\nHowever, the lack of commercial success of his works depressed Barlach. To lighten up, he decided to travel for eight weeks together with his brother Nikolaus and to visit his brother Hans in Russia. This trip to Russia in 1906 was one of the greatest influences on him and his artistic style. Also during his travels in Russia his son Nikolaus was born on 20 August 1906, starting a two-year fight with the mother, Rosa Schwab, for the custody of the child, which Barlach was finally granted.\n\nAfter returning from Russia, Barlach's financial situation improved considerably, as he received a fixed salary from the art dealer Paul Cassirer in exchange for his sculptures. The formative experiences in Russia and the financial security helped him to develop his own style, focusing on the faces and hands of the people in his sculptures and reducing the other parts of the figures to a minimum. He also began to make wood carvings and bronzes of figures swathed in heavy drapery like those in early Gothic art, and in dramatic attitudes expressive of powerful emotions and a yearning for spiritual ecstasy. He also worked for the German journal \"Simplicissimus\", and started to produce some literature. His works were shown on various exhibitions. He also spent ten months in Florence, Italy in 1909 and afterwards settled in 1910 in Güstrow in Mecklenburg, where he spent the rest of his life.\n\nIn the years before World War I, Barlach was a patriotic and enthusiastic supporter of the war, awaiting a new artistic age from the war. This support for the war can also be seen in his works, as for example the statue \"Der Rächer\" (The Avenger), from December 1914. His awaited \"new artistic age\" came for him when he volunteered to join the war between 1915 and 1916 as an infantry soldier. After three months of service he was discharged due to a heart ailment, returning as a pacifist and a staunch opponent of war. The horror of the war influenced all of his subsequent works.\n\nBarlach's fame increased after the war, and he received many awards and became a member in the prestigious \"Preußische Akademie der Künste\" (Prussian Art Academy) in 1919 and the \"Akademie der Bildenden Künste München\" (Munich Art Academy) in 1925. Barlach rejected a number of honorary degrees and teaching positions. In 1925 he also met Bernhard and Marga Böhmer for the first time. He received the Kleist Prize for drama in 1924 for his \"Die Sündflut\" (\"The Flood\"), in which he projects his personal mysticism onto the story of Noah and the Ark. In 1926 he wrote \"Der blaue Boll\" (translated as \"Squire Blue Boll\" or \"Boozer Boll\"), an expressionist drama in which the eponymous squire almost succeeds in seducing a down-and-out young mother, before both achieve spiritual regeneration.\n\nFrom 1928 onward Barlach also generated many anti-war sculptures based on his experiences in the war. This pacifist position went against the political trend during the rise of Nazism, and he was the target of much criticism. For example, the \"Magdeburger Ehrenmal\" (Magdeburg cenotaph) was ordered by the city of Magdeburg to be a memorial of World War I, and it was expected to show heroic German soldiers fighting for their glorious country. Barlach, however, created a sculpture with three German soldiers, a fresh recruit, a young officer and an old reservist, standing in a cemetery, all bearing marks of the horror, pain and desperation of the war, flanked by a mourning war widow covering her face in despair, a skeleton wearing a German army helmet, and a civilian (the face is that of Barlach himself) with his eyes closed and blocking his ears in terror. This naturally created a controversy with the pro-war population (several nationalists and Nazis claimed that the soldiers must be foreign since true Germans would be more heroic), and the sculpture was removed. Friends of Barlach were able to hide the sculpture until after the war, when it was returned to the Magdeburg Cathedral. Yet the attacks on Barlach continued until his death.\n\nIn 1931 Barlach started to live with Marga Böhmer, whereas her ex-husband and Barlach's friend Bernhard Böhmer lived with his new wife Hella.\n\nIn 1936, Barlach's works were confiscated during an exhibition together with the works of Käthe Kollwitz and Wilhelm Lehmbruck, and the majority of his remaining works were confiscated as \"degenerate art\", for example the \"Güstrower Ehrenmal\" (Güstrow cenotaph) and the \"Hamburger Ehrenmal\" (Hamburg cenotaph). Barlach himself was prohibited from working as a sculptor, and his membership in the art academies was canceled. This rejection is reflected in his final works before his death from heart failure on 24 October 1938 in Rostock, Mecklenburg. He is buried in the cemetery of Ratzeburg.\n\nIn addition to his sculpture, Barlach also wrote eight Expressionist dramas, two novels and an autobiography \"Ein selbsterzähltes Leben\" 1928, and had a distinguished oeuvre of woodcuts and lithographs from about 1910 onwards, including illustrations for his own plays.\n\n\nOn 2 May 2012, Barlach's carved wood sculpture \"Weinende Frau\" sold at Christie's for $938,500, setting a new world auction record for a price paid for Barlach's work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43518989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43518989", "title": "Food Chain Workers Alliance", "text": "Food Chain Workers Alliance\n\nThe Food Chain Workers Alliance (FCWA) is a national coalition of 31 worker-based organizations of workers in many sectors of the food chain, including agriculture, processing, selling, and serving. Its program areas include strategic campaigns , leadership development, policy and standards, and education and communications. FCWA members represent over 300,000 workers. The Alliance is based in Los Angeles, California, and was founded in 2009.\n\nPrior to 2008, a number of organizations of workers along the food chain had been struggling with ways to integrate their work with the new national interest in food systems, and some had begun talking with each other about possible ways to collaborate with each other.\n\nIn January 2008 the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United (ROC United), thanks to a suggestion from a Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation program officer, organized an initial meeting of several organizations and in May 2008 convened eight organizations at the Labor Notes Conference in Detroit. At this meeting, the groups came together to get to know each other better, to share information on their work, and to talk about the idea of collaborating with each other. These groups included ROC United, the Center for New Community, the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, el Comité de Apoyo a los Trabajadores Agrícolas, the International Labor Rights Forum, and the Northwest Arkansas Workers’ Justice Center (NWAWJC). All the groups decided that they did indeed want to work together – the real guiding vision that everybody agreed to at that point was that all of these organizations, with their high-stakes campaign experience, their membership, and their piece of the food chain, coming together would be incredibly strategic to build real power for all the workers along the food chain.\n\nAfter the Labor Notes conference through quarterly conference calls the organizations continued to share information about their own campaigns and to support each other’s campaigns whenever possible.\n\nThe groups then decided to hold an in-person retreat to talk more in-depth about what an alliance could do. Thanks to the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, which raised funds from the Ford Foundation, nine organizations came together in Chicago in July 2009 to officially create the Food Chain Workers Alliance. In addition to the groups listed above, Just Harvest USA, the Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York, and the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 1500 also participated. NWAWJC could not attend but afterwards confirmed their membership in the Alliance.\n\nAt the meeting the DataCenter shared research that it had conducted on the work and the demographics of the membership of each organization and the possibility of common corporate targets among all the groups. Then the representatives of the nine organizations spent almost two days sharing experiences and talking about their vision for an alliance. Thus the Food Chain Workers Alliance was born.\n\nFood Chain Workers Alliance program areas: \n\nIn June 2012, the FCWA released a comprehensive report on workers in the food system. This report is called \"The Hands That Feed Us: Challenges and Opportunities for Workers Along the Food Chain.\" \nThe Alliance supports members’ organizing campaigns, explores potential coordinated campaigns between various members of the Alliance, and acts in solidarity with other workers’ organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20990132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20990132", "title": "Gafsa Archaeological Museum", "text": "Gafsa Archaeological Museum\n\nGafsa Archaeological Museum is an archaeological museum in Gafsa, Tunisia. It sits in the old city center. Opposite the museum are ancient Roman pools.\n\nA large section of the museum is dedicated to the period of history of Gafsa when it was under Roman control. Gafsa was once a Roman frontier town, the headquarters of a garrison. A high-ranking military chief would usually be in command of the garrison and resided in Gafsa. Articles used in everyday life, like jewellery, coins, sculptures and mosaics, are part of this collection. One ostonef the best artifacts is the mosaic pavement that shows a circus game. It dates from the 4th century AD.\n\nThe Gafsa Museum has an extensive collection of prehistoric flint and lithic tools as well as other tools fashioned out of bone. Objects depicting human and animal figures and paraphernalia suggesting spiritual life are also part of the museum collection. The museum houses not only artifacts from the city but also from the surrounding areas. One of the museum's most prized assets is a Capsian figurine dating back to 8000 BC. This indicates that Gafsa, after which the Capsian culture was named, has been inhabited since the Mesolithic epoch.\n\n"}
{"id": "16671571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16671571", "title": "Helter Skelter: L.A. Art in the 1990s", "text": "Helter Skelter: L.A. Art in the 1990s\n\nHelter Skelter: L.A. Art in the 1990s, named after The Beatles' song that motivated Charles Manson, was a contemporary art exhibition held from January 26, to April 26, 1992 at the L.A. Museum of Contemporary Art. Organized by Paul Schimmel, \"Helter Skelter\" displayed the work of 16 artists. Featuring works of sex, violence, and warped Americana, the exhibition aimed to destroy stereotypes of L.A. art and challenge the New York school. At the time \"Helter Skelter\" was hailed as the prime example of modern contemporary art and is still held as one of the most important and influential contemporary art exhibits in recent years.\n\nThe exhibition included work by:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12099058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12099058", "title": "Humour in Islam", "text": "Humour in Islam\n\nHumour in Islam, is an accepted tradition dating back to the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nLaughter, fun, and joking are permissible in Islam provided guidelines from the Quran and ahadith are followed. For humor to be in accordance with Islam, the joke should not be blasphemous and should be within the limits of \"adab\" (manners).\n1) The Prophet used to smile, rather than laugh.\nAisha, wife of the Prophet Muhammad narrated:\n2) The Prophet's smile and his companions' laughing sessions.\nJabir ibn Samurah narrated:\n3) Aisha also narrated:\n4) The Prophet encouraged to be jestful with your family.\nIbn Mas'ud narrated that the Prophet Muhammad said;\n5) Abu Dharr al-Ghifari narrated that the Prophet Muhammad said;\n6) The Prophet discouraged laughing at inappropriate times.\nAl-Aswad ibn Yazid narrated:\n7) The Prophet encouraged jokes about the truth.\nAbu Hurairah narrated that;\nProphet Muhammad said:\n8) The Prophet discouraged lying to make people laugh\n\n9) The Prophet discouraged frightening anyone as a joke.\n\n10) The Prophet discouraged joking or laughing excessively.\n\nProphet Muhammad said:\nMuhammad discouraged backbiting and inappropriate language:\nMuhammad is reported by Tirmidhi to have said: \"Why are there no old women in heaven? Because they become young girls when they get there.\"\n\nOther instances include man who came up to Muhammad to ask him to give him a beast to ride. The Prophet jokingly told him, \"I will give you the offspring of a she-camel to ride.\" He said, \"O Messenger of Allah , what will I do with the offspring of a she-camel?\" The Prophet said: \"Are riding-camels born except from she-camels?\" (Reported by Ahmad ibn Hanbal, Abu Dawud and al-Tirmidhi, as Sahih).\n\nThe Prophet’s companions would limit jokes, joke at appropriate times, and be cautious of joking.\n\nUmar ibn al-Khattab narrated that;\nSa`d ibn Abi Waqqas said;\n\nUmar ibn Abd al-Aziz said;\nIn al-Adab al-Mufrad, Bukhari reports from Bakr ibn 'Abdillah who said: \"The Companions of the Prophet used to throw melon-rinds at one another, but when the matter was serious, they were the only true men.\"\n\n\nAl Jihaz wrote a ‘Treatise on seriousness and playfulness.’ Ibn Qutaybah observed that early Muslims did not dislike joking. Writing in his \"Akhbar al hamqa\" (\"History of Fools\") the classical scholar Ibn al-Jawzi commented, \"Humor serves as a much needed natural relaxation, and is approved for this purpose by many statements of Prophet Muhammad and the early Muslims.\"\n\nSince 9/11, there has been an increase in the number of Muslim comedians and humor festivals. Prominent Muslim comedians include Azhar Usman, Ahmed Ahmed, and Dean Obeidallah. Azhar Usman blames the media for misrepresenting humor in Islam. \"The fact is that within Muslim culture there is a strong tradition of storytelling, joking and laughing. The relationship between Islam and comedy goes to the roots of the religion.\" However, American comedian Mohammed Amer asserts that it is Muslims who have made a “terrible job” of communicating with the outside world.\n\nIn 2017, in response to the \"Real Housewives of ISIS\", a parody of \"Real Housewives\" broadcast by BBC2 show Revolting, there was widespread outrage and hilarity on the idea on Facebook.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58567533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58567533", "title": "Immigration Judge (United States)", "text": "Immigration Judge (United States)\n\nAn immigration judge, formerly known as a special inquiry officer, is an employee of the United States Department of Justice who confers U.S. citizenship or nationality upon lawful permanent residents who are statutorily entitled to such benefits. An immigration judge also decides cases of aliens in various types of removal proceedings. During the proceedings, an immigration judge may grant any type of immigration relief or benefit to an alien, including to his or her family members. \n\nAn immigration judge is appointed by (and works under the direction of) the U.S. Attorney General. In other words, under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), every immigration judge is literally the voice and action of the Attorney General. There are approximately 394 immigration judges located across the United States. An immigration judge can either be a citizen or a national of the United States. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "105311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105311", "title": "Imre Kertész", "text": "Imre Kertész\n\nImre Kertész (; 9 November 192931 March 2016) was a Hungarian author and recipient of the 2002 Nobel Prize in Literature, \"for writing that upholds the fragile experience of the individual against the barbaric arbitrariness of history\". He was the first Hungarian to win the Nobel in Literature. His works deal with themes of Nazi Holocaust (he was a survivor of a German concentration camp), dictatorship and personal freedom. He died on 31 March 2016, aged 86, at his home in Budapest after suffering from Parkinson's disease for several years.\n\nKertész was born in Budapest, Hungary, on 9 November 1929, the son of Aranka Jakab and László Kertész, a bourgeois Jewish couple. After his parents separated when he was around the age of five, Kertész attended a boarding school and, in 1940, he started secondary school where he was put into a special class for Jewish students. During World War II, Kertész was deported in 1944 at the age of 14 with other Hungarian Jews to the Auschwitz concentration camp, and was later sent to Buchenwald. Upon his arrival at the camps, Kertész claimed to be a 16-year old worker, thus saving him from the instant extermination that awaited a 14-year old. After his camp was liberated in 1945, Kertész returned to Budapest, graduated from high school in 1948, and then went on to find work as a journalist and translator. In 1951, he lost his job at the journal \"Világosság\" (Clarity) after the publication started leaning towards communism. For a short term he worked as a factory worker and then in the press department of the Ministry of Heavy Industry. From 1953 he started freelance journalism and translated various works into Hungarian, including Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Elias Canetti.\n\nHis best-known work, \"Fatelessness\" (\"Sorstalanság\"), describes the experience of 15-year-old György (George) Köves in the concentration camps of Auschwitz, Buchenwald and Zeitz. Written between 1960 and 1973, the novel was initially rejected for publication by the Communist regime in Hungary, but was published in 1975. Some have interpreted the book as quasi-autobiographical, but the author disavows a strong biographical connection. The book would go on to become part of many high school curriculums in Hungary. In 2005, a film based on the novel, for which he wrote the script, was made in Hungary. Although sharing the same title, some reviews noted that the film was more autobiographical than the novel on which it was based. It was released internationally at various dates in 2005 and 2006.\n\nFollowing on from \"Fatelessness\", Kertész's \"Fiasco\" (1988) and \"Kaddish for an Unborn Child\" (1990) are, respectively, the second and third parts of his holocaust trilogy. His writings translated into English include \"Kaddish for an Unborn Child\" (\"Kaddis a meg nem született gyermekért\") and \"Liquidation\" (\"Felszámolás\"), the latter set during the period of Hungary's evolution into a democracy from communist rule.\n\nFrom the beginning, Kertész found little appreciation for his writing in Hungary, and he moved to Germany where he received more active support from publishers and reviewers, along with more appreciative readers. After his move, he continued translating German works into Hungarian, notably \"The Birth of Tragedy\", the plays of Dürrenmatt, Schnitzler and Tankred Dorst, and various thoughts and aphorisms of Wittgenstein. Kertész also continued working at his craft, writing his fiction in Hungarian, but did not publish another novel until the late 1980s. But from that point on, he submitted his work to publishers in Hungary until his death in March 2016. Grateful that he had found his most significant success as a writer and artist in Germany, Kertész left his abatement to the Academy of Arts in Berlin.\n\nIn November 2013, Kertész underwent a successful surgery on his right hip after falling down in his home. However, he continued to deal with various health concerns during the last few years of his life. He'd recently been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, and he was again suffering from depression, reported to have been a recurring battle in his own life. In fact, Kertész had struggled with this same issue through his art, as the main character of his 2003 book \"Felszámolás\" (\"Liquidation\") commits suicide after struggling with depression.\n\nKertész died in Budapest on 31 March 2016 at the age of 86.\n\nKertész was a controversial figure within Hungary, especially since being Hungary's first and only Nobel Laureate in Literature, he still lived in Germany. This tension was exacerbated by a 2009 interview with \"Die Welt\", in which Kertész vowed himself a \"Berliner\" and called Budapest \"completely balkanized.\" Many Hungarian newspapers reacted negatively to this statement, claiming it to be hypocritical. Other critics viewed the Budapest comment ironically, saying it represented \"a grudge policy that is painfully and unmistakably, characteristically Hungarian.\" Kertész later clarified in a Duna TV interview that he had intended his comment to be \"constructive\" and called Hungary \"his homeland.\"\n\nAlso controversial was Kertész's criticism of Steven Spielberg's depiction of the Holocaust in the 1993 film \"Schindler's List\" as kitsch, saying: \"I regard as kitsch any representation of the Holocaust that is incapable of understanding or unwilling to understand the organic connection between our own deformed mode of life and the very possibility of the Holocaust.\"\n\nIn November 2014 Kertész was the subject of an interview with \"The New York Times\". Kertész claimed the reporter was expecting him to question Hungary's democratic values and was shocked to hear Kertész say that \"the situation in Hungary is nice, I'm having a great time\". According to Kertész, \"he didn't like my answer. His purpose must have been to make me call Hungary a dictatorship which it isn't. In the end the interview was never published\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13564103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13564103", "title": "Inscriptiones Graecae", "text": "Inscriptiones Graecae\n\nThe Inscriptiones Graecae (IG), Latin for \"Greek inscriptions\", is an academic project originally begun by the Prussian Academy of Science, and today continued by its successor organisation, the \"Berlin-Brandenburgische Akademie der Wissenschaften\". Its aim is to collect and publish all known ancient inscriptions from the mainland and islands of Greece.\n\nThe project was designed as a continuation of the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Graecarum\" (\"Corpus of Greek Inscriptions\", abbreviated CIG) published by August Böckh between 1825 and 1860, and as a parallel to the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\" (\"Corpus of Latin Inscriptions\") founded by Theodor Mommsen in 1847. From 1860 to 1902, it was directed by Adolf Kirchhoff. From 1902 to 1931, Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff was in control of the project; he reorganised and re-energised the IG, turning it into one of the most important series for the publication of source material in Classical studies.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the project suffered from a lack of financial and motivational support. It came to a temporary halt in 1972, but was revived by the newly reformed Berlin-Brandenburg Academy in 1994.\n\nSo far, 49 fascicles have been published, some of them in several editions. The preparation of individual volumes is partially entrusted to external scholars, in which case the Berlin Academy retains the final editing. The Academy also maintains a collection of \"squeezes\" (paper copies) of Greek inscriptions. The project is currently directed by Peter Funke. Editors of previous volumes include Wilhelm Dittenberger, Friedrich Hiller von Gaertringen, Johannes Kirchner and Günther Klaffenbach.\n\nAll editorial texts are published in Latin, a fact that is occasionally criticised in view of the decreasing use of that language and the extra effort required from editors. The inscriptions were published without translation, but German translations for all volumes since 2012 are available on the IG website.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32490966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32490966", "title": "Instituto Promundo", "text": "Instituto Promundo\n\nPromundo is a Brazilian-based, non-governmental organization with offices in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Goma, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Washington, DC, USA, that work in collaboration to promote caring, non-violent and equitable masculinities and gender relations in Brazil and internationally. Promundo's work engages women, girls, boys and men; strives to transform gender norms and power relations within key institutions; and is based on building local and international partnerships. It is an applied research institute that works to test, evaluate and advocate for policies and programs that transform masculinities.\n\nFounded in 1997, Promundo was born out of frustration with the prevailing discourses about gender equality and efforts to put those discourses into action, practice and policy. The institute has concentrated on developing evaluated interventions and advocacy strategies to achieve gender equality with a focus on engaging men and boys in changing inequitable and violent forms of masculinities.\nPromundo works locally, nationally, and internationally to:\n\nPromundo designs, implements, and evaluates its research and evidence-based programs in close partnership with local, not-for-profit Civil Society Organizations. In recent years, Promundo has been increasingly recognized for promoting the role of men and boys in achieving gender equality. Most recently, Promundo expanded its presence to Washington, DC, to support the organization’s international communication, advocacy and technical assistance, which include the coordination of the MenEngage Alliance, a global network of NGOs and UN partners working to engage men and boys in gender equality, of which Promundo was a co-founder.\n\nIn 1999 Promundo, together with ECOS Comunicação em Sexualidade (São Paulo, Brazil), Instituto Papai (Recife, Brazil), and Salud y Género (Mexico), with support from the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the World Health Organization (WHO), International Planned Parenthood Federation/Western Hemisphere Region (IPPF/WHR), JohnSnowBrasil and Durex – SSL International developed the Program H (H for and , the words for Men). The material was born in part of extensive community-based research, including the study \"Dying to be Men: Youth, Masculinity and Social Exclusion\".\n\nProgram H seeks to engage young men and their communities in critical reflections about rigid norms related to manhood. It includes group educational activities, community campaigns, and an innovative evaluation model, called Gender-Equitable Men or GEM scale, for assessing the program’s impact on gender-related attitudes. The approach was subjected to quasi-experimental impact evaluation studies in Brazil, India, the Balkans and several settings in Sub-Saharan Africa, and found to lead to significant changes in attitudes among young men, in addition to self-reported increases in condom use, increased in couple communication and reductions in men’s reports of use of violence against female partners. Program H has been acknowledged by the Pan American Health Organization, UNICEF, United Nations Population Fund, United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and the Brazilian Ministry of External Relations as a \"best practice\" in promoting gender equality.\n\nIn 1999 Promundo in partnership with Ecos (São Paulo), Instituto Papai (Recife), Salud y Género (Mexico) and World Education (United States), with the support of the Oak Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, the Nike Foundation and the Brazilian Secretariat for Women’s Policies developed Program M (M for and , the words for Women).\n\nProgram M seeks to promote the health and empowerment of young women through critical reflections about gender, rights and health. It consists of educational workshops, community campaigns and innovative evaluation instruments for assessing the program’s impact on young women’s gender-related attitudes and perceived self-efficacy in interpersonal relationships.\n\nIn 2000 Promundo, Instituto Papai and other partner organizations launched the White Ribbon Campaign in Brazil. Promundo also works together Instituto Noos and the State Government of Rio de Janeiro to start one of Brazil’s first batterer intervention programs, which eventually inspired the Brazilian Federal Government to implement such programs in other states.\n\nBecause attitudes towards homophobia showed the least amount of attitude change in the study impact evaluation in Brazil, in 2005 Promundo, Ecos, Salud y Género, Papai and the other Program H partners, with support from the Brazilian National AIDS Programme, developed a cartoon video called \"Afraid of What?\" as a complementary educational tool focusing specifically on the issue of homophobia, and targeting mostly heterosexual youth.\n\nBetween March 30 and April 3, 2009, Promundo and partners co-hosted the \"Global Symposium on Engaging Men and Boys in Gender Equality\" in Rio de Janeiro. The event brought together 439 activists, researchers, and practitioners from 77 countries to share their experiences in challenging rigid gender norms and engaging men and boys in: reducing violence against women and girls; promoting sexual and reproductive health; HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment; and fatherhood and care-giving. The event was organized in collaboration with the MenEngage Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "45313399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45313399", "title": "Joan of Arc at the Coronation of Charles VII", "text": "Joan of Arc at the Coronation of Charles VII\n\nJoan of Arc at the Coronation of Charles VII (French: \"Jeanne d’Arc au sacre du roi Charles VII\") is an 1854 painting by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres. It is now in the Louvre Museum in Paris.\n\nThe work merges the style of Ingres' teacher Jacques-Louis David with that of the troubador style. He began with a nude model, adding the clothes and armour.\n\nThe painting was first commissioned by the director of the Academie des Belles Artes in Orléans to commemorate Joan of Arc. It shows her at the coronation of Charles VII of France in Reims Cathedral, victorious and looking up to heaven, which she felt had given France the victory. To her right are three pages, the monk Jean Paquerel, and a servant. The servant is a self-portrait of the artist. The scene is marked by ambient light, sumptuous objects and rich colours.\n"}
{"id": "21450418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21450418", "title": "King's Gate (Kaliningrad)", "text": "King's Gate (Kaliningrad)\n\nThe King's Gate (Russian: \"Королевские ворота\", tr.: \"Korolevskie vorota\", German: \"Königstor\") is one of the former six gates that were built during the 19th century around Kaliningrad (the former German city of Königsberg).\n\nThe King's Gate was originally the Gumbinnen Gate (German: \"Gumbinner Tor\"), built in 1765 at the edge of the district Neue Sorge. In 1811 it was renamed the King's Gate and was the terminus of the Königstraße boulevard. The gate was redesigned by Friedrich August Stüler in 1850. The west facade has three sandstone statues, made by sculptor Wilhelm Stürmer: nine metres above the ground to the left the Bohemian king Ottokar II is depicted, who was Königsberg's namesake. Frederick I of Prussia, Prussia's first king, follows as the middle statue. To the right Albert, Prussia's first duke and founder of the Albertina university, holds an eye over the city. Above the sculptures the coat of arms of Samland and Natangen are shown.\n\nThe gate was damaged during the Second World War. Furthermore, as a first victory celebration, Soviet soldiers decapitated the statues. With the celebration of the city's 750-year existence in June 2005, the gate was renovated. A few months before the beginning of the festivities, the gate was still in a desolate condition. Within a few weeks, however, the gate was restored to its condition before the war. Fully restored statues replaced the decapitated ones on the gate with this renovation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1228073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228073", "title": "Napoleon and the Jews", "text": "Napoleon and the Jews\n\nRevolutionary France enacted laws that first emancipated Jews in France, establishing them as equal citizens to other Frenchmen. In countries that Napoleon Bonaparte's ensuing First French Empire conquered during the Napoleonic Wars, he emancipated the Jews and introduced other ideas of freedom from the French Revolution. For instance, he overrode old laws restricting Jews to reside in ghettos, as well as lifting laws that limited Jews' rights to property, worship, and certain occupations.\n\nIn an effort to promote Jewish integration into French society, however, Napoleon also implemented several policies that eroded Jewish distinction. For example, he restricted the Jewish practice of money-lending, restricted the regions to which Jews were allowed to migrate, and required Jews to adopt formal names. He also implemented a series of consistories -- which served as an effective channel utilized by the French government to regulate Jewish religious life. \n\nHistorians have disagreed about Napoleon's intentions in these actions, as well as his personal and political feelings about the Jewish community. Some have said he had political reasons but did not have sympathy for the Jews. His actions were generally opposed by the leaders of monarchies in other countries. After his defeat by Great Britain, a counter-revolution swept many of these countries and they restored discriminatory measures against the Jews.\n\nThe French Revolution abolished the different treatment of people according to religion or origin that had existed under the monarchy. Roman Catholicism had been the established state religion, closely tied historically to the monarchy, which represented both religious and political authority. The 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen guaranteed freedom of religion and free exercise of worship, provided that it did not contradict public order. At that time, most other European countries implemented measures that restricted the rights of people in their nations who practiced minority religions.\n\nIn the early 19th century, through his conquests in Europe, Napoleon Bonaparte spread the modernist ideas of revolutionary France: equality of citizens and the rule of law. Napoleon's personal attitude towards the Jews has been interpreted in various ways by different historians, as at various times he made statements both in support and opposition to the Jewish people. Orthodox Rabbi Berel Wein in \"Triumph of Survival: The Story of the Jews in the Modern Era 1650-1990\" (1990) claims that Napoleon was interested primarily in seeing the Jews assimilate, rather than prosper as a distinct community: \"Napoleon's outward tolerance and fairness toward Jews was actually based upon his grand plan to have them disappear entirely by means of total assimilation, intermarriage, and conversion.\"\n\nNapoleon was concerned about the role of Jews as money lenders, wanting to end that. The treatment of the Alsace Jews and their debtors was raised in the Imperial Council on 30 April 1806. His liberation of the Jewish communities in Italy (notably in Ancona in the Papal States) and his insistence on the integration of Jews as equals in French and Italian societies demonstrate that he distinguished between usurers (whether Jewish or not), whom he compared to locusts, and Jews who accepted non-Jews as their equals.\n\nHis letter to Champagny, Minister of the Interior of 29 November 1806, expresses his thoughts:\n\n(While insisting on the primacy of civil law over the military, Napoleon retained a deep respect and affection for the military as a profession. He often hired former soldiers in civilian occupations).\n\nThrough his policies overall, Napoleon greatly improved the condition of the Jews in France and Europe, and they widely admired him. Starting in 1806, Napoleon passed a number of measures enhancing the position of the Jews in the French Empire. He recognized a representative group elected by the Jewish community, the \"Sanhedrin,\" as their representatives to the French government.\n\nIn conquered countries, he abolished laws restricting Jews to living in ghettos. In 1807, he designated Judaism as one of the official religions of France, along with Roman Catholicism (long the established state religion), and Lutheran and Calvinist Protestantism. (Followers of the latter had been severely persecuted by the monarchy in the late 17th and early 18th centuries.)\n\nIn 1808 Napoleon rolled back a number of reforms (under the so-called \"décret infâme\", or Infamous Decree, of 17 March 1808), declaring all debts with Jews to be annulled, reduced or postponed. The Infamous Decree imposed a ten-year ban on any kind of Jewish money-lending activity. Similarly, Jewish individuals who were in subservient positions -- such as a Jewish servant, military officer, or wife -- were unable to engage in any kind of money-lending activity without the explicit consent of their superiors. Napoleon's goal in implementing the Infamous Decree of 1808 was to integrate Jewish culture and customs into those of France. By restricting money-lending activity, Jews would be forced to engage in other practices for a living. Likewise, in order to even engage in money-lending activity, the decree required Jews to apply for an annual license, granted only with the recommendation of the Jews' local consistory and with the surety of the Jews' honesty. This caused so much financial loss that the Jewish community nearly collapsed. On a different note, the Infamous Decree also placed heavy restrictions on the Jews' ability to migrate. The decree prevented the Jews from relocating to the regions of Alsace and required that Jews wishing to move to other regions of France own or purchase land to farm. It also required them to refrain from engaging in any kind of money-lending activity. (The law eventually only placed these restrictions on the Jews of the northeast.) Likewise, the French decree required Jewish individuals to serve in the French military, without any opportunity to provide a replacement individual. The last component of the Infamous Decree – established in July 1808 – required Jews to adopt formal names with which they would be addressed. (Before, Jews were often referred to as “Joseph son of Benjamin.”) They were also prevented from selecting names of cities or names in the Hebrew Bible. Napoleon sought to integrate the Jewish people more fully into French society by establishing the guidelines they were required to follow in adopting names. Napoleon ended these restrictions by 1811.\n\nHistorian Ben Weider argued that Napoleon had to be extremely careful in defending oppressed minorities such as Jews, because of keeping balance with other political interests, but says that the leader clearly saw political benefit to his Empire in the long term in supporting them. Napoleon hoped to use equality as a way of gaining advantage from discriminated groups, like Jews or Protestants.\n\nBoth aspects of his thinking can be seen in an 1822 response to physician Barry O'Meara, who had written to Napoleon after he had been exiled, asking why he pressed for the emancipation of the Jews:\n\nIn a private letter to his brother Jérome Napoleon, dated 6 March 1808, Napoleon expressed a conflicting view:\n\nDuring Napoleon's siege of Acre in 1799, \"Le Moniteur Universel,\" the main French newspaper during the French Revolution, published on 3 Prairial, Year vii (French Republican Calendar, equivalent to 22 May 1799) a short statement that: \n\"Buonaparte a fait publier une proclamation, dans laquelle il invite les juifs de l'Asie et de l'Afrique à venir se ranger sous ses drapeaux, pour rétablir l'ancienne Jérusalem; il en a déjà armé un grand nombre, et leurs bataillons menacent Alep.\"\n\nThis has been translated in English as:\n\"Bonaparte has published a proclamation in which he invites all the Jews of Asia and Africa to gather under his flag in order to re-establish the ancient Jerusalem. He has already given arms to a great number, and their battalions threaten Aleppo.\"\n\nNapoleon's forces lost to Great Britain and he never carried out his alleged plan. Historians such as Nathan Schur in \"Napoleon and the Holy Land\" (2006) believe that Napoleon intended the proclamation for propaganda and to build support for his campaign among the Jews in those regions. Ronald Schechter believes that the newspaper was reporting a rumor, as there is no documentation that Napoleon contemplated such a policy. Other historians suggest that the proclamation was intended to gain support from Haim Farhi, the Jewish advisor to Ahmed al Jazzar, the Muslim ruler of Acre, and to bring him over to Napoleon's side. Farhi commanded the defence of Acre on the field.\n\nIn 1940, historian Franz Kobler claimed to have found a detailed version of the proclamation from a German translation. Kobler's claim was published in \"The New Judaea,\" the official periodical of the Zionist Organisation. The Kobler version suggests that Napoleon was inviting Jews across the Mideast and North Africa to create a Jewish state. It includes phrases such as \"Rightful heirs of Palestine!\" and \"your political existence as a nation among the nations.\" These concepts have been more commonly associated with the Zionist movement, which developed in the late 19th century.\n\nHistorians such as Henry Laurens, Ronald Schechter, and Jeremy Popkin believe that the German document (which has never been found) was a forgery, as asserted by Simon Schwarzfuchs in his 1979 book.\n\nRabbi Aharon Ben-Levi of Jerusalem also added his voice to the proclamation, calling on the Jews to enlist in Napoleon's army \"to return to Zion as in the days of Ezra and Nehemiah\" and rebuild the Temple. According to Prof. Mordechai Gichon, a military historian and archaeologist from Tel Aviv University, who summarized 40 years of research on the subject, Napoleon had an idea to establish a national home for the Jews in the Land of Israel, \"Napoleon believed the Jews would repay his favors by serving French interests in the region.\"Gichon claimed. \"After returning to France, all he was interested in when it came to the Jews was how to use them to reinforce the French nation,\" Gichon says. \"Therefore, he tried to conceal the Zionist chapter of his past.\" On the other hand, Prof. Ze'ev Sternhell of Jerusalem's Hebrew University, however, believes the entire story is nothing more than an oddity. \"Napoleon's big contribution came, in fact, in form of promoting the incorporation of the Jews into French society,\" \n\nNapoleon had more influence on the Jews in Europe than detailed in his decrees. By breaking up the feudal castes of mid-Europe and introducing the equality of the French Revolution, he achieved more for Jewish emancipation than had been accomplished during the three preceding centuries. As part of recognizing the Jewish community, he established a national Israelite Consistory in France. It was intended to serve as a centralizing authority for Jewish religious and community life. Napoleon implemented several other regional consistories throughout the French Empire, as well, with the Israelite Consistory serving as the lead consistory; it had the responsibility of overseeing the various regional consistories. The regional consistories, in turn, oversaw the economic and religious aspects of Jewish life. The regional consistories consisted of a five-individual board, usually occupied by one (or, in some cases two) rabbis, and the rest lay individuals who lived in the districts over which the consistory maintained jurisdiction. The Israelite Consistory in France consisted of three rabbis and two lay individuals. In charge of the Israelite Consistory (and the consistory system in general) was a 25-member board. The members of the board, all Jews, were appointed by the prefect, thus allowing the French government to regulate the system of consistories and, in turn, various aspects of Jewish life. Similarly he established the Westphalia (). This served as a model for other German states until after the fall of Napoleon. Napoleon permanently improved the condition of the Jews in the Prussian Rhine provinces by his rule of this area.\n\nHeine and Börne both recorded their sense of obligation to Napoleon's principles of action. The German Jews in particular have historically regarded Napoleon as the major forerunner of Jewish emancipation in Germany. When the government required Jews to select surnames according to the mainstream model, some are said to have taken the name of \"Schöntheil,\" a translation of \"Bonaparte.\" In the Jewish ghettos, legends grew up about Napoleon's actions. Twentieth-century Italian author Primo Levi wrote that Italian Jews often chose \"Napoleone\" and \"Bonaparte\" as their given name to recognize their historic liberator.\n\nThe Russian Czar Alexander I objected to Napoleon's emancipation of the Jews and establishment of the Great Sanhedrin. He vehemently denounced the liberties given Jews and demanded that the Russian Orthodox Church protest against Napoleon's tolerant religious policy. He referred to the Emperor in a proclamation as \"the Anti-Christ\" and the \"Enemy of God\".\n\nThe Holy Synod of Moscow proclaimed: \"In order to destroy the foundations of the Churches of Christendom, the Emperor of the French has invited into his capital all the Judaic synagogues and he furthermore intends to found a new Hebrew Sanhedrin ― the same council that the Christian bible states, condemned to death (by crucifixion) the revered figure, Jesus of Nazareth.\"\n\nThe Czar persuaded Napoleon to sign a 17 March 1808 decree restricting the freedoms accorded to the Jews. Napoleon expected in exchange that the Czar would help persuade Great Britain to end the war in Europe. Absent that, three months later, Napoleon effectively cancelled the decree by allowing local authorities to implement his earlier reforms. More than half of the French départements restored citizens' guaranteed freedoms to the Jews.\n\nIn Austria, Chancellor Metternich wrote, \"I fear that the Jews will believe (Napoleon) to be their promised Messiah\".\n\nIn Prussia, leaders of the Lutheran Church were extremely hostile to Napoleon's actions. Italian kingdoms were suspicious of his actions, although expressing less violent opposition. \n\nGreat Britain, which was at war with Napoleon, rejected the principle and doctrine of the Sanhedrin.\n\nAll the states under French authority applied Napoleon's reforms. In Italy, the Netherlands, and the German states, the Jews were emancipated and able to act as free men for the first time in those nations. After the British defeated Napoleon at Waterloo, a counter-revolution in many of these countries resulted in the restoration of discriminatory measures against Jews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25640369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25640369", "title": "New Found World", "text": "New Found World\n\nNew Found World is a history of Latin America written for children by Katherine Shippen and illustrated by C. B. Falls. It covers the Aztec, the Mayan and the Inca civilizations, the Conquistadors, the search for El Dorado, the coming of Christianity, and the struggle for independence of the colonial powers. The book, illustrated by C. B. Falls, was first published in 1945 and was a Newbery Honor recipient in 1946.\n"}
{"id": "2178198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178198", "title": "Oath of Allegiance (United States)", "text": "Oath of Allegiance (United States)\n\nThe United States Oath of Allegiance, officially referred to as the \"Oath of Allegiance,\" 8 C.F.R. Part 337 (2008), is an allegiance oath that must be taken by immigrants who wish to become United States citizens.\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance may be administered by USCIS officials; by immigration judges; and by eligible courts.\n\nThe current oath is as follows:\n\n provides that the phrase \"so help me God\" is optional and that the words 'on oath' can be substituted with 'and solemnly affirm'.\n\nQualifying for this modification may require supporting documentation from the applicant's religious organization. The applicant is not required to belong to a specific religious group, but must have \"a sincere and meaningful belief that has a place in the applicant's life that is equivalent to that of a religious belief\".\n\nThe requirement to take the Oath is waived by USCIS for children under 14 years of age at the time of naturalization. The requirement may also be waived for any person unable to understand or communicate an understanding of the Oath due to a physical disability or mental impairment.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War, oaths of allegiance were administered to officers of the Continental Army, pursuant to a Congressional resolution of February 3, 1778. An example appears below.\n\nThe Oath of Allegiance for prospective citizens originated with the Naturalization Act of 1790, which required applicants to take an oath or affirmation \"to support the constitution of the United States\", but did not provide a text. The Naturalization Act of 1795 added renunciation of the new citizen's former sovereign to the oath. The Naturalization Act of 1906 added the section of the oath requiring new citizens to defend the Constitution and laws of the United States of America against all enemies, foreign and domestic; and bear true faith and allegiance to the same.\n\nThe Oath acquired a standard text in 1929. Prior to then, spoken oaths were adapted from naturalization law, and each court could develop its own procedures for administering the oath.\n\nThe Internal Security Act of 1950 added the text about bearing arms and performing noncombatant service in the armed forces of the United States. The section about performing work of national importance under civilian direction was added by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952.\n\nThe current exact text of the Oath of Citizenship is established only in the form of an administrative regulation promulgated by the executive branch. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, CIS could theoretically change the text of the oath at any time, so long as the new text reasonably meets the \"five principles\" mandated by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1953. These principles are:\n\n\nThere has been some controversy about the wording of the oath, parts of which are based on the British Oath of Supremacy which was written in the 16th Century. As a result, some have suggested much of the language is antiquated and confusing. In the fall of 2003, CIS planned to change the oath of citizenship in time for Citizenship Day (September 17). The proposed oath was as follows:\n\nThe introduction of the new oath was scrapped by the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security, and Claims on April 1, 2004.\n\nIn \"United States v. Schwimmer\" (1929), the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the denial of citizenship to an applicant who declared not to be willing to \"take up arms personally\" in defense of the United States. The applicant, Hungarian-born female suffragist Rosika Schwimmer, had written that she was an \"uncompromising pacifist\" with \"no sense of nationalism, only a cosmic consciousness of belonging to the human family\". The Court found that persons holding such views were \"liable to be incapable of the attachment for and devotion to the principles of our Constitution\" that are required for naturalization.\n\nEnglish writer Aldous Huxley, author of \"Brave New World\", applied for U.S. citizenship in 1953 after having lived in the United States for fourteen years. When asked if he would bear arms and perform noncombatant military service as required by the Oath, Huxley answered in the negative and was summoned before a judge. Huxley explained that his objection was based on philosophical convictions about the evil of war rather than religious beliefs. The judge adjourned proceedings and postponed a decision on Huxley's application in order to report to Washington. Huxley never received U.S. citizenship.\n\nIn the 1968 case \"In re Weitzman\", a U.S. district court considered the naturalization petition of Brenda Weitzman, a 25-year-old mother of two children from South Africa and religious non-believer who had refused to take the part of the Oath requiring her to serve in the Armed Forces. She expressed a total \"objection to warfare and the bearing of arms\" (conscientious objectorship), being \"repulsed by no particular war, but by all killing.\" The court, finding that her stance was \"based on a personal moral code and not on religious training and belief\" and that she did not recognize anything \"tantamount to a God or a Supreme Being\", denied her petition.\n\nThe precedent relied upon was United States v. Seeger. However the Supreme Court, in their 1970 ruling on \"Welsh v. United States\", \nhaving noted the case factually similar and controlled by United States v. Seeger, determined in respect to the provision in the Universal Military Training and Service Act that exempts from military service persons who by reason of \"religious training and belief\" are conscientiously opposed to war, that the Act:\n\nThis judgement was used in 2013 to reverse a denial of citizenship to Margaret Doughty, a 65 year old British atheist who had lived in the US for 30 years, unless she could show proof of membership in a church with pacifist beliefs to support her claim that she was a conscientious objector entitled to omit the Oath's clause about bearing arms. The USCIS retracted their demand after receiving a letter from an atheist group that objected based on Welsh vs. United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "5926834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5926834", "title": "Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium", "text": "Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium\n\nThe Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium (often abbreviated to ODB) is a three-volume historical dictionary published by the English Oxford University Press. With more than 5,000 entries, it contains comprehensive information in English on topics relating to the Byzantine Empire. It was edited by Alexander Kazhdan, and was first published in 1991. Kazhdan was a professor at Princeton University who became a Senior Research Associate at Dumbarton Oaks, Washington, DC before his death. He contributed to many of the articles in the Dictionary and always signed his initials \"A.K.\" at the end of the article to indicate his contribution.\n\nThe dictionary is available in printed and e-reference text versions from Oxford Reference Online. It covers the main historical events of Byzantium, as well as important social and religious events. It also includes biographies of eminent political and literary personalities and describes in detail religious, social, cultural, legal and political topics. Cultural topics include music, theology and the arts. Other topics covered include warfare, demography, education, agriculture, commerce, science, philosophy, and medicine providing a comprehensive picture of the complex and advanced political and social structures of Byzantine society.\n\n"}
{"id": "42222409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42222409", "title": "Paths of Glory (painting)", "text": "Paths of Glory (painting)\n\nPaths of Glory is a 1917 painting by British artist Christopher Nevinson. The title quotes from a line from Thomas Gray's poem \"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard\": \"The paths of glory lead but to the grave\". It is held by the Imperial War Museum in London, which describes it as \"one of Nevinson's most famous paintings\".\n\nNevinson had served as a volunteer ambulance driver with the Friends' Ambulance Service on the Western Front in the early months of the First World War, from November 1914 to January 1915, and then returned to England. He served as an orderly in the Royal Army Medical Corps in London but was invalided out in late 1915 due to rheumatic fever. During this period he painted several paintings such as \"La Mitrailleuse\" (1915) and \"The Doctor\" (1916).\n\nHe was commissioned as a war artist in 1917 and was sent to France by the British War Propaganda Bureau. He adopted a Realist style to depict the horror of the war, moved decisively away from his earlier Modernist and Vorticist styles. \n\nThe painting measures . It depicts two dead British soldiers, face down in a battlefield on the Western Front. They lie unburied in a muddy landscape that is bare save for barriers of barbed wire and the detritus of war. \n\nThe painting was censored by the official censor of paintings and drawings in France, Lieutenant Colonel A N Lee, on the grounds that displaying dead bodies would hinder the war effort. Nonetheless, Nevinson included the painting in his official exhibition at the Leicester Galleries in March 1918, but the work was displayed with a brown paper strip across the bodies bearing the word \"censored\". Nevinson was reprimanded by the War Office for exhibiting a censored image, and for using the word \"censored\" in public without authorisation, but obtained significant publicity, particularly as the first exhibition of official colour tinted photographs from the front (including images of actual dead bodies) opened on 4 March. The painting was bought by the Imperial War Museum direct from the exhibition, as the work had been commissioned by the Ministry of Information.\n\nThe same title was used for several books and the 1957 war film directed by Stanley Kubrick.\n\n"}
{"id": "4539992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4539992", "title": "Pim weight", "text": "Pim weight\n\nPim weights were polished stones about 15 mm (5/8 inch) diameter, equal to about two-thirds of a Hebrew shekel. Many specimens have been found since their initial discovery early in the 20th century, and each one weighs about 7.6 grams, compared to 11.5 grams of a shekel. Its name, which can also be transliterated as \"payim\", comes from the inscription seen across the top of its dome shape: the Phoenician letters 𐤐𐤉‬‬𐤌‬ (Hebrew , transliterated pym). \n\nPrior to the discovery of the weights by archaeologists, scholars did not know how to translate the word \"pim\" (פִ֗ים \"p̄îm\") in 1 Samuel 13:21. Robert Alexander Stewart Macalister's excavations at Gezer (1902-1905 and 1907-1909) were published in 1912 with an illustration showing one such weight, which Macalister compared to another published in 1907 by Charles Simon Clermont-Ganneau.\n\nHere is the 1611 translation of the King James Version of the Bible:\n\nThe 1982 New King James Version rendered it:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7670949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7670949", "title": "Popular print", "text": "Popular print\n\nPopular prints is a term for printed images of generally low artistic quality which were sold cheaply in Europe and later the New World from the 15th to 18th centuries, often with text as well as images. They were some of the earliest examples of mass media. After about 1800, the types and quantity of images greatly increased, but other terms are usually used to categorise them.\n\nFrom about 1400, there began a \"visual revolution that inundated Europe with images during the fifteenth century\" (Field) as the woodcut technique was applied to paper, which was now manufactured in Christian Europe, instead of being imported from Islamic Spain. In the 15th century, the great majority of these images were religious, if playing cards are excluded. They were sold at churches, fairs and places of pilgrimage. Most were coloured, usually crudely, by hand or later by stencil. One political cartoon relating to events in 1468-70 has survived in several different versions (many from years later). Old master print is a term that at this period includes popular prints, but later is restricted to more expensive and purely artistic prints. \n\nAlthough early information as to prices is almost non-existent, it is clear from a number of sources that small woodcuts were affordable by at least the urban working-class, and much of the peasant class as well.\n\nDuring the middle of the century, the quality of the images became typically very low, but there was an improvement towards the end, partly because it was necessary to keep pace with the quality of images in engravings. Engravings were always much more expensive to create, as they needed greater skill to create the plate, which would last for far fewer impressions than a woodcut. They did not come into the popular prints category until the 19th century, when different techniques made them much cheaper.\n\nBroadsheets, also known as broadsides, were a common format. They were usually single sheets of paper of various sizes, typically sold by street-vendors. Another format was the chapbook, usually a single sheet cut or folded to make a small pamphlet or book. In Spain there were \"pliego\"s, in Portugal the \"papel volante\", and in other countries other names. These covered a great variety of material, including pictures, popular history, political comment or satire, news, almanacs (from c. 1470), poems and songs. They could be very influential politically, and were often subsidized by political factions for propaganda purposes. See Broadside (music) for their musical use. The Reformation hugely increased the market for satirical and polemical prints in all counties affected. In France the Wars of Religion, and in England the English Civil War and the political convulsions after the Restoration all produced huge quantities of propaganda and polemic, in images as well as text.\n\nDespite being often issued in large numbers, their survival rate was extremely low, and they are now very rare, with most having not survived at all. This has been demonstrated by analysis of the records of the London Stationers Company from 1550 onwards; some blocks were in print for over a century with no copies now surviving. They were very commonly pasted to the walls of rooms. Paper was still sufficiently expensive that all available spare pieces tended to be used in the toilet. One of the biggest surviving collections with 439 prints is Wickiana at the Zentralbibliothek Zürich.\n\nNewspapers began in the early 17th century, as an upmarket and expensive form of broadsheet (still a term for a large-format newspaper). The first in English came in 1620. During this century books also became much cheaper, and began to replace some types of popular print. These trends continued during the next century, and although most of the traditional types of popular print lived on until the 19th century or beyond, they were by then part of a much wider print culture, and the term is generally not used of them. One type of publication continuing into the 20th century is the Brazilian \"cordel literature\" (\"string literature\" - it is hung on strings by the sellers) that continue to use woodcuts, and is part of a continuous tradition going back to the Portuguese \"papel volante\" of the 17th century. Lubok prints in Russia were another local variant.\n\nPolitical caricature prints for sale as single sheets are found as early as the 15th century, but reached the peak of their popularity in much of Europe in the 18th and early 19th century, before the form migrated into newspapers and magazines. Above all they were popular in England, where a high degree of freedom of the press meant that dedicated print-shops, often also acting as the publishers, could openly sell and display scathing images of the Royal Family and government politicians, a business that had to remain \"under the counter\" in much of Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28087785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28087785", "title": "Prison Notebooks", "text": "Prison Notebooks\n\nThe Prison Notebooks ( ) were a series of essays written by the Italian neo-Marxist Antonio Gramsci. Gramsci was imprisoned by the Italian Fascist regime in 1926. The notebooks were written between 1929 and 1935, when Gramsci was released from prison on grounds of ill-health. He died in April 1937.\n\nHe wrote more than 30 notebooks and 3,000 pages of history and analysis during his imprisonment. Although written unsystematically, the \"Prison Notebooks\" are considered a highly original contribution to 20th century political theory. Gramsci drew insights from varying sources - not only other Marxists but also thinkers such as Niccolò Machiavelli, Vilfredo Pareto, Georges Sorel and Benedetto Croce. His notebooks cover a wide range of topics, including Italian history and nationalism, the French Revolution, Fascism, Fordism, civil society, folklore, religion and high and popular culture.\n\nThe notebooks were smuggled out of prison in the 1930s. They were not published until the 1950s and were first translated into English in the 1970s, by the Scottish poet and folklorist Hamish Henderson.\n\nSome ideas in Marxist theory, critical theory and educational theory that are associated with Gramsci's name:\n\nHegemony was a concept previously used by Marxists such as Vladimir Ilyich Lenin to indicate the political leadership of the working-class in a democratic revolution, but developed by Gramsci into an acute analysis to explain why the 'inevitable' socialist revolution predicted by orthodox Marxism had not occurred by the early 20th century. Capitalism, it seemed, was even more entrenched than ever. Capitalism, Gramsci suggested, maintained control not just through violence and political and economic coercion, but also ideologically, through a hegemonic culture in which the values of the bourgeoisie became the 'common sense' values of all. Thus a consensus culture developed in which people in the working-class identified their own good with the good of the bourgeoisie, and helped to maintain the \"status quo\" rather than revolting.\n\nThe working class needed to develop a culture of its own, which would overthrow the notion that bourgeois values represented 'natural' or 'normal' values for society, and would attract the oppressed and intellectual classes to the cause of the proletariat. Lenin held that culture was 'ancillary' to political objectives but for Gramsci it was fundamental to the attainment of power that \"cultural hegemony\" be achieved first. In Gramsci's view, any class that wishes to dominate in modern conditions has to move beyond its own narrow ‘economic-corporate’ interests, to exert intellectual and moral leadership, and to make alliances and compromises with a variety of forces. Gramsci calls this union of social forces a ‘historic bloc’, taking a term from Georges Sorel. This bloc forms the basis of consent to a certain social order, which produces and re-produces the hegemony of the dominant class through a nexus of institutions, social relations and ideas. In this manner, Gramsci developed a theory that emphasized the importance of the superstructure in both maintaining and fracturing relations of the base.\n\nGramsci stated that, in the West, bourgeois cultural values were tied to religion, and therefore much of his polemic against hegemonic culture is aimed at religious norms and values. He was impressed by the power Roman Catholicism had over men's minds and the care the Church had taken to prevent an excessive gap developing between the religion of the learned and that of the less educated. Gramsci believed that it was Marxism's task to marry the purely intellectual critique of religion found in Renaissance humanism to the elements of the Reformation that had appealed to the masses. For Gramsci, Marxism could supersede religion only if it met people's spiritual needs, and to do so people would have to recognize it as an expression of their own experience.\n\nFor Gramsci, hegemonic dominance ultimately relied on coercion, and in a \"crisis of authority\" the \"masks of consent\" slip away, revealing the fist of force.\n\nGramsci gave much thought to the question of the role of intellectuals in society. Famously, he stated that all men are intellectuals, in that all have intellectual and rational faculties, but not all men have the social function of intellectuals. He claimed that modern intellectuals were not simply talkers, but directors and organisers who helped build society and produce hegemony by means of ideological apparatuses such as education and the media. Furthermore, he distinguished between a 'traditional' intelligentsia which sees itself (wrongly) as a class apart from society, and the thinking groups which every class produces from its own ranks 'organically'. Such 'organic' intellectuals do not simply describe social life in accordance with scientific rules, but rather articulate, through the language of culture, the feelings and experiences which the masses could not express for themselves. The need to create a working-class culture relates to Gramsci's call for a kind of education that could develop working-class intellectuals, who would not simply introduce Marxist ideology from outside the proletariat, but rather renovate and make critical the \"status quo\" of the already existing intellectual activity of the masses. His ideas about an education system for this purpose correspond with the notion of critical pedagogy and popular education as theorized and practised in later decades by Paulo Freire in Brazil, and have much in common with the thought of Frantz Fanon. For this reason, partisans of adult and popular education consider Gramsci an important voice to this day. (For the results of this kind of thought in education, see the latests reports of PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) on the education in Brazil).\n\nGramsci's theory of hegemony is tied to his conception of the capitalist state, which he claims rules through force plus consent. The state is not to be understood in the narrow sense of the government; instead, Gramsci divides it between 'political society', which is the arena of political institutions and legal constitutional control, and 'civil society', which is commonly seen as the 'private' or 'non-state' sphere, differentiated from both the state and the economy. The former is the realm of force and the latter of consent. He stresses, however, that the division is purely conceptual and that the two, in reality, often overlap.\n\nGramsci claims that hegemony lies under modern capitalism and that the bourgeoisie can maintain its economic control by allowing certain demands made by trade unions and mass political parties within civil society to be met by the political sphere. Thus, the bourgeoisie engages in Passive Revolution by going beyond its immediate economic interests and allowing the forms of its hegemony to change. Gramsci posits that movements such as reformism and fascism, as well as the 'scientific management' and assembly line methods of Frederick Taylor and Henry Ford respectively, are examples of this.\n\nDrawing from Machiavelli, he argues that 'The Modern Prince' – the revolutionary party – is the force that will allow the working-class to develop organic intellectuals and an alternative hegemony within civil society. For Gramsci, the complex nature of modern civil society means that the only tactic capable of undermining bourgeois hegemony and leading to socialism is a 'war of position' (analogous to trench warfare); this war of position would then give way to a 'war of movement' (or frontal attack). Gramsci saw 'war of movement' as being exemplified by the storming of the Winter Palace during the Russian Revolution.\n\nDespite his claim that the lines between the two may be blurred, Gramsci rejects the state-worship that results from identifying political society with civil society, as was done by the Jacobins and Fascists. He believes the proletariat's historical task is to create a 'regulated society' and defines the 'withering away of the state' as the full development of civil society's ability to regulate itself.\n\nGramsci, like the early Marx, was an emphatic proponent of historicism. In Gramsci's view, all meaning derives from the relation between human practical activity (or \"praxis\") and the \"objective\" historical and social processes of which it is a part. Ideas cannot be understood outside their social and historical context, apart from their function and origin. The concepts by which we organise our knowledge of the world do not derive primarily from our relation to things, but rather from the social relations between the users of those concepts. As a result, there is no such thing as an unchanging \"human nature\", but only an idea of such which varies historically. Furthermore, philosophy and science do not \"reflect\" a reality independent of man, but rather are only \"true\" in that they express the real developmental trend of a given historical situation.\n\nFor the majority of Marxists, truth was truth no matter when and where it is known, and scientific knowledge (which included Marxism) accumulated historically as the advance of truth in this everyday sense. On this view, Marxism could not be said to not belong to the illusory realm of the superstructure because it is a science. In contrast, Gramsci believed Marxism was \"true\" in the socially pragmatic sense, in that by articulating the class consciousness of the proletariat, it expressed the \"truth\" of its times better than any other theory. This anti-scientistic and anti-positivist stance was indebted to the influence of Benedetto Croce. However, it should be underlined that Gramsci's was an \"absolute historicism\" that broke with the Hegelian and idealist tenor of Croce's thinking and its tendency to secure a metaphysical synthesis in historical \"destiny\". Though Gramsci repudiates the charge, his historical account of truth has been criticised as a form of relativism.\n\nIn a famous pre-prison article entitled \"The Revolution against \"Das Kapital\"\", Gramsci claimed that the October Revolution in Russia had invalidated the idea that socialist revolution had to await the full development of capitalist forces of production. This reflected his view that Marxism was not a determinist philosophy. The principle of the causal \"primacy\" of the forces of production, he held, was a misconception of Marxism. Both economic changes and cultural changes are expressions of a \"basic historical process\", and it is difficult to say which sphere has primacy over the other. The fatalistic belief, widespread within the workers’ movement in its earliest years, that it would inevitably triumph due to \"historical laws\", was, in Gramsci's view, a product of the historical circumstances of an oppressed class restricted mainly to defensive action, and was to be abandoned as a hindrance once the working-class became able to take the initiative. Because Marxism is a \"philosophy of praxis\", it cannot rely on unseen \"historical laws\" as the agents of social change. History is defined by human praxis and therefore includes human will. Nonetheless, will-power cannot achieve anything it likes in any given situation: when the consciousness of the working-class reaches the stage of development necessary for action, historical circumstances will be encountered which cannot be arbitrarily altered. It is not, however, predetermined by historical inevitability as to which of several possible developments will take place as a result.\n\nHis critique of economism also extended to that practised by the syndicalists of the Italian trade unions. He believed that many trade unionists had settled for a reformist, gradualist approach in that they had refused to struggle on the political front in addition to the economic front. While Gramsci envisioned the trade unions as one organ of a counter-hegemonic force in capitalist society, the trade union leaders simply saw these organizations as a means to improve conditions within the existing structure. Gramsci referred to the views of these trade unionists as \"vulgar economism\", which he equated to covert reformism and even liberalism.\n\nBy virtue of his belief that human history and collective praxis determine whether any philosophical question is meaningful or not, Gramsci's views run contrary to the metaphysical materialism and 'copy' theory of perception advanced by Engels and Lenin, though he does not explicitly state this. For Gramsci, Marxism does not deal with a reality that exists in and for itself, independent of humanity. The concept of an objective universe outside of human history and human praxis was, in his view, analogous to belief in God; there could be no objectivity, but only a universal intersubjectivity to be established in a future communist society. Natural history was thus only meaningful in relation to human history. On his view philosophical materialism, like primitive common sense, resulted from a lack of critical thought, and could not, as Lenin claimed, be said to oppose religious superstition. Despite this, Gramsci resigned himself to the existence of this arguably cruder form of Marxism: the proletariat's status as a dependent class meant that Marxism, as its philosophy, could often only be expressed in the form of popular superstition and common sense. Nonetheless, it was necessary to effectively challenge the ideologies of the educated classes, and to do so Marxists must present their philosophy in a more sophisticated guise, and attempt to genuinely understand their opponents’ views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48719557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48719557", "title": "Rembrandt catalog raisonné, 1968", "text": "Rembrandt catalog raisonné, 1968\n\nThe following is a list of paintings by Rembrandt in order of appearance (catalog numbers 1-420), that were attributed as autograph by Horst Gerson in 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596795", "title": "Rigid designator", "text": "Rigid designator\n\nIn modal logic and the philosophy of language, a term is said to be a rigid designator or absolute substantial term when it designates (picks out, denotes, refers to) the same thing in \"all possible worlds\" in which that thing exists and does not designate anything else in those possible worlds in which that thing does \"not\" exist. A designator is \"persistently rigid\" if it designates the same thing in every possible world in which that thing exists and designates nothing in all other possible worlds. A designator is \"obstinately rigid\" if it designates the same thing in every possible world, period, whether or not that thing exists in that world. Rigid designators are contrasted with \"connotative terms\", \"non-rigid\" or \"flaccid designators\", which may designate different things in different possible worlds.\n\nThe Scholastic philosophers in the Middle Ages developed a theory of properties of terms in which different classifications of concepts feature prominently.\n\nConcepts, and the terms that signify them, can be divided into absolute or connotative, according to the mode in which they signify. If they signify something absolutely, that is, after the manner of substance, they are absolute, for example rock, lion, man, whiteness, wisdom, tallness. If they signify something connotatively, that is, with reference to a subject of inherence, i.e., after the manner of accidents, they are connotative, for example, white, wise, tall.\n\nBoth connotative and absolute concepts can be used to signify accidents, but since connotative concepts signify with a reference to a subject of inherence, they can refer to object with different definitions and properties (i.e. with different \"essences\"). For example, large, as a connotative concept, can signify objects with many distinct essences: a man, a lion, a triangle can be large.\n\nOn the other hand, absolute concepts signify objects that have the same definitions and properties. For example, the concept of gold, as an absolute concept, can signify only objects with the same definitions and properties (i.e. with the same \"essence\").\n\nThe notion of absolute concepts was then revived by Saul Kripke, with the name “rigid designation”, in the lectures that became \"Naming and Necessity\", in the course of his argument against descriptivist theories of reference, building on the work of Ruth Barcan Marcus. At the time of Kripke's lectures, the dominant theory of reference in analytic philosophy (associated with the theories of Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell) was that the meaning of sentences involving proper names could be given by substituting a contextually appropriate description for the name. Russell, for example, famously held that someone who had never met Otto von Bismarck might know of him as \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire\", and if so, his statement that (say) \"Bismarck was a ruthless politician\" should be understood to mean \"The first Chancellor of the German Empire was a ruthless politician\" (which could in turn be analysed into a series of more basic statements according to the method Russell introduced in his theory of definite descriptions). Kripke argued—against both the Russellian analysis and several attempted refinements of it—that such descriptions could not possibly \"mean the same thing\" as the name \"Bismarck,\" on the grounds that proper names such as \"Bismarck\" always designate \"rigidly\", whereas descriptions such as \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire\" do not. Thus, for example, it \"might have been the case\" that Bismarck died in infancy. If so, he would not have ever satisfied the description \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire,\" and (indeed) someone else probably would have. It does not follow that the first Chancellor of the German Empire may not have been the first Chancellor of the German Empire—that is (at least according to its surface-structure) a contradiction. Kripke argues that the way that proper names \"work\" is that when we make statements about what might or might not have been true of Bismarck, we are talking about what might or might not have been true of \"that particular person\" in various situations, whereas when we make statements about what might or might not have been true of, say, \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire\" we \"could\" be talking about what might or might not have been true of \"whoever\" would have happened to fill that office in those situations.\n\nThe \"could\" here is important to note: rigid designation is a property of the \"way terms are used\", not a property of \"the terms themselves\", and some philosophers, following Keith Donnellan, have argued that a phrase such as \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire\" \"could\" be used rigidly, in sentences such as \"the first Chancellor of the German Empire could have decided never to go into politics.\" Kripke himself doubted that there was any need to recognize rigid uses of definite descriptions, and argued that Russell's notion of scope offered all that was needed to account for such sentences. But in either case, Kripke argued, nothing important in his account depends on the question. Whether definite descriptions can be used rigidly or not, they can at least \"sometimes\" be used non-rigidly, but a proper name \"can only be used rigidly\"; the asymmetry, Kripke argues, demonstrates that no definite description could \"give the meaning\" of a proper name—although it might be used to explain \"who\" a name refers to (that is, to \"fix the referent\" of the name).\n\nIn \"Naming and Necessity\", Kripke argues that proper names and certain natural kind terms—including biological taxa and types of natural substances (most famously, \"water\" and \"HO\") designate rigidly. He argues for a form of scientific essentialism not unlike Aristotelian essentialism. Essential properties are common to an object in all possible worlds, and so they pick out the same objects in all possible worlds - they rigidly designate.\n\nProper names rigidly designate for reasons that differ from natural kinds terms. The reason 'Johnny Depp' refers to one particular person in all possible worlds is because some person initially gave the name to him by saying something like \"Let's call our baby 'Johnny Depp'\". This is called the initial baptism. This usage of 'Johnny Depp' for referring to some particular baby got passed on from person-to-person in a giant causal and historical chain of events. That is why everybody calls Johnny Depp 'Johnny Depp'. Johnny's mother passed it onto her friends who passed it onto their friends who passed it onto their friends, and so on.\n\nOne puzzling consequence of Kripke semantics is that identities involving rigid designators are necessary. If water is HO, then water is \"necessarily\" HO. Since the terms 'water' and 'HO' pick out the same object in every possible world, there is no possible world in which 'water' picks out something different from 'HO'. Therefore, water is necessarily HO. It is possible, of course, that we are mistaken about the chemical composition of water, but that does not affect the necessity of identities. What is not being claimed is that water is necessarily HO, but \"conditionally\", \"if\" water is HO (though we may not know this, it does not change the fact if it is true), then water is necessarily HO.\n\n"}
{"id": "32002794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32002794", "title": "Roger Scruton bibliography", "text": "Roger Scruton bibliography\n\nThis a list of the published works of English philosopher Roger Scruton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31359857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31359857", "title": "SABRE Research UK", "text": "SABRE Research UK\n\nSABRE Research UK is a British charity raising awareness of the need to remove bias from the conduct and scientific evaluation of animal research. DEBATE \nIt addresses this issue by calling for systematic reviews of existing animal studies (published results of laboratory animal experiments). The charity was constituted in 2005 in response to disquiet about uninformed opinions about the scientific value of animal studies and dissatisfaction with 'polarised positions in the debate about animal research'. The charity found that neither the proponents of animal research nor its opponents were able to produce sufficiently sound scientific evidence in support of their opposing cases.\n\nThe charity is independent from political parties, animal research advocacy groups, the pharmaceutical industry, animal rights groups or any other vested interests. It does not take a position on the moral, welfare or ethical use of animals in research. Its interests lie in the economic costs, the application and relevance of animal research to human health and how the results of animal experiments are analysed, evaluated and interpreted and the resulting data used to inform the design of clinical trials.\n\nThe formation of the charity followed the publication of an Education and Debate paper in the BMJ in 2004 which expressed concerns about the lack of scientific evidence to support the claims made by animal research advocates. The paper, itself a systematic review, was the first to call for systematic reviews of animal studies. It also called for the prospective registration of all animal research projects licensed by the Home Office. The authors were concerned that animal research is not conducted, analysed and reported (published) as rigorously as clinical research, which has reporting standards such as the CONSORT statement for randomised controlled clinical trials. These measures are considered important as they promote higher standards of research conduct through higher reporting standards.\n\nIn 2005 a report was published by the Nuffield Council on Bioethics which called for systematic reviews and meta-analyses to be carried out in order to ‘evaluate more fully the predictability and transferability of animal models. The report concluded that 'At present, there is a relatively limited number of useful systematic reviews and meta-reviews that address the question of the scientific validity of animal experiments and tests.’ The report recommended that the programme be funded by the Home Office in collaboration with major funders of research such as the Wellcome Trust, the MRC, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), animal protection groups and industry associations such as the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI)’.\n\nA larger study was published in the BMJ in 2007 which drew attention to a lack of communication between animal researchers and clinical researchers and 'identified a gap in knowledge about the usefulness of the volume of animal studies that look at biological mechanisms of disease' and that 'more systematic reviews are needed for a quantitative appraisal of the concordance between animal and clinical trials.' The review reiterated earlier calls for the Home Office to undertake prospective registration of animal studies. The authors had found that the Home Office showed a lack of interest in the quality of record-keeping needed for preparing systematic reviews.\n\nIn September 2007 SABRE Research UK designed a Powerpoint presentation for the annual Festival of Science held by the British Association of Science in the United Kingdom. The presentation was given by Professor Michael B Bracken from the American Council on Science and Health. In the lecture he urged scientists to recognize the need for systematic reviews of animal studies.\n\nThe charity states that it is generally believed by the public that animal research is only carried out providing:\n\n\nHowever, the charity cautions that because of biases in research, these conditions are not always met. Although it is claimed, by those with a vested interest, that animal experiments have led to developments in medicine the hypothesis that animals make reliable models of humans has never been tested and validated. But what we do know is that researchers have uncovered uncertainties and flaws in the way that much animal research is designed and how it is approved and evaluated and that it has harmed patients and likely to have diverted attention away from other more reliable methods of pre-clinical research. It also amounts to a substantial degree of research waste. In addition to these questions serious doubts have been raised about the predictive value of animal studies for human health. Professor John Ioannidis says of pre-clinical research 'Evidence-based medicine does not seem to have penetrated basic and preclinical science, while basic and preclinical research is often performed in a clinical and methodological vacuum.’\n\n\nIt is now increasingly widely accepted that systematic reviews of existing research are needed to assess the value of most scientific research. The results of the reviews form a body of evidence that other researchers, health economists and policy makers can use to inform further research and financial and economic decision-making.\n\nSystematic reviews provide transparency and accountability of research and help to advance medical research by building a more reliable evidence-base derived from the results of the reviews. It is important that sound and rigorous evidence is cumulated and made available through research synthesis.\n\nSABRE Research UK believes that systematic reviews of the data from existing animal studies will help to ensure that only the highest quality pre-clinical research relevant to human health will be done and made available to clinical research and research programmes. Systematic reviews are essential in protecting the health and safety of patients and research volunteers.\n\nIt is in the interest of patients' organisations, research volunteers and medical charities to support the 10Rs+ Strategy that SABRE Research has proposed. Details are found in this paper: http://bmcmedethics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12910-015-0043-7\n"}
{"id": "57944028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57944028", "title": "Saint Augustine and Alypius Receiving Ponticianus", "text": "Saint Augustine and Alypius Receiving Ponticianus\n\nSaint Augustine and Alypius Receiving Ponticianus is a 1414–1415 painting by Nicolò di Pietro, which has been in the collection of the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon since 2009.\n"}
{"id": "53565238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53565238", "title": "Suzanne Dixon", "text": "Suzanne Dixon\n\nSuzanne Dixon (born 1946) is an Australian classical scholar, widely recognised as an authority on women's history and particularly marriage and motherhood.\n\nDixon's career spans posts at the Australian National University as well as the University of Queensland, where she was first reader, then Professor, in Classics and Ancient History. Her expertise on the position of women in the ancient world was recognised by the BBC History website, by whom she was asked to curate an educational resource on Roman women. Amy Richlin, currently professor of Classics at the University of California, Los Angeles, has cited Dixon as a great influence in shaping her own work on gender politics. Her 1992 monograph 'The Roman Family' is credited with being one of the key texts in the field.\n\nShe is currently without an academic post, but continues writing about the ancient world in a freelance capacity, such as her contribution as Honorary Research Consultant to a chapter on Roman marriage in \"The Wiley Companion to Families in the Greek and Roman Worlds\".\n\nDixon lives on an island in Moreton Bay, off the coast of South Queensland, Australia.\n\nArticles\n\nMonographs\n\nEdited collections\n\nBook chapters\n\n"}
{"id": "52082927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52082927", "title": "Sybille Haynes", "text": "Sybille Haynes\n\nSybille Haynes, (\"née\" Overhoff; born 3 July 1926) is a British expert on Etruscology. She grew up and was educated in Germany and Austria before moving to the UK in the 1950s. She worked with Etruscan artefacts at the British Museum for many years as well as publishing numerous books, for fellow scholars and also for the general public. In the 1980s she joined the Centre for the Study of Greek and Roman Antiquity at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nBorn Sybille Overhoff on 3 July 1926 to Edith \"née\" Kloeppel, her German mother, and Julius Overhoff, her Austrian father, she was one of five siblings including her twin sister Elfriede Knauer, an archaeologist. She grew up in a cultured family in Berlin, Frankfurt and Austria but her schooling was interrupted by the Nazi regime. She had to join Nazi youth organisations and spent a year doing compulsory labour in harsh conditions. After the war things remained difficult for some time and she studied Chinese while waiting for Frankfurt University to reopen in 1947. However, she had always been interested in the antiquities collected by her maternal great-grandfather, the sculptor and art historian , and had a long-standing wish to study classical archaeology, and in particular, Etruscology. Once at the Goethe University Frankfurt she studied classical archaeology, ancient history, art history and ethnology and found vacation work in museums in Paris, Rome, and London before graduating \"summa cum laude\" in December 1950. She went on to write a thesis on Etruscan bronze mirrors, supervised and encouraged by Guido von Kaschnitz.\n\nWhile she was helping at the British Museum in 1950, where the Greek and Roman department had suffered severe bomb damage, she met Denys Haynes (1913-1994), later Keeper of Greek and Roman Antiquities, whom she married in January 1951. She had also come to know the previous Keeper, Bernard Ashmole, who offered her a voluntary position in the department where her work included answering questions about Etruscan subjects and handling correspondence in German and Italian. She described this as an opportunity to study and learn. Amongst her writings were two booklets for the museum on Etruscan bronze utensils and Etruscan sculpture. In 1985 she published Etruscan Bronzes, an Etruscan novel called The Augur's Daughter in 1987 (first published in German in 1981) and Etruscan Civilization in 2000 (and an enlarged German edition in 2005). She also published regularly in international journals and was made a foreign member of the \"Istituto di Studi Etruschi ed Italici\" in 1965. In 1976, the year she was awarded an MBE, Haynes was responsible for the opening of the first ever Etruscan gallery in the classical department of the British Museum. In 1981 she was honoured by the Order of the \"Dignitari dell'Ombra della Sera\" in Volterra.\n\nIn 1985 she moved to Oxford where she was invited to join Corpus Christi College, Oxford and the Centre for the Study of Greek and Roman Antiquity. In the same year she was made a corresponding member of the Deutsches Archäologisches Institut. In 2000 her book, \"Etruscan Civilization: A Cultural History\" was very well-received, and has been described as \"definitive and comprehensive\" as well as \"authoritative, precise, engaging and articulate\". Neil MacGregor, while director of the British Museum, called Haynes an \"Etruscologist of international repute\" in the introduction to a 2011 festschrift. A Sybille Haynes Lecturership in Etruscan and Italic Archaeology at Somerville College Oxford University was created in 2013, and the university hosts a recently established annual Sybille Haynes lecture series open to the public.\n\nAs well as writing numerous articles, Haynes published these books:\n"}
{"id": "22729045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22729045", "title": "Veritism", "text": "Veritism\n\nVeritism was a socio-philosophical ideology promoted by the \"Veritism Foundation\" (apparently now defunct). It advocates that man has been presented with no conclusive evidence lending credence to the existence of a specific deity, or supreme entity and thus has no justification for reaching any kind of conclusions on the nature of such a being other than that (as represented by humanity's current state) it is a benign force.\n\nVeritism proposes that man has been engaged in an unfruitful search for truth since his creation.\nVeritism also emphasizes that some, not having found truth, or lacking direction in their own lives, have rejected the existence of absolute truth, thus embracing atheistic, nihilistic ideologies.\nHistory is a crucial aspect in Veritism, as most of Veritistic theory rests upon the conclusion that truth must be revealed unto humanity by an external means. The past lends credence to this conclusion, as throughout human history multiple theories and ideologies have been discarded. Essentially, philosophy is a dynamic subject, constantly in a state of change: conclusions are eternally tested, challenged, and discarded, only to be quickly and efficiently replaced by those seemingly more plausible.\n\nVeritism suggests that humanity may only theorize upon non-observable studies. Man can draw conclusions concerning solid, physical sciences such as mathematics or chemistry. But he cannot claim he has undeniably and irrefutably answered questions relative to philosophy. Thus the only logical absolute concerning objective philosophical truth is that it simply does not exist. Yet many discard this statement, saying that it denies its own antecedent (one claims an absolute when he denies the existence of absolute truth). Yet upon examination of this particular antecedent we find that it is specific to a certain kind of truth, and thus claims only that truths asserted from a certain medium cannot be conclusive. As an example, any type of personal revelation or \"vision\" cannot be deemed as legitimate, as there is ultimately no way to prove that it was of divine cause or of personal accord. In Veritism the question becomes \"what is the nature of truths presented?\", \"what is their claim?\" and \"is that claim plausible?\"\n\nVeritism dismisses organized religion or any claim to ultimate truth as ignorant and without grounds.\n\nA veritistic view of reality is rather basic. That which can be perceived by the five senses is that which exists.\n\nVeritistic ethics would advocate that humans have an inherent view of that which is right or wrong. This is demonstrated in law and government. The only humans lacking any type of self morals or ethical inclination are those with a mental or psychological dysfunction. Veritism consequently suggests that there are numerous cultural factors which influence behavior concerning ethics, sometimes in a negative way.\nVeritistic thinking also attributes action to negative consequence. Some may subscribe to a religion simply because they fear a negative afterlife. Those who are truly moral, ethical people are those who do good with no ultimate reward, simply because it is the right thing to do.\n\n"}
{"id": "13478851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13478851", "title": "W. D. Wright", "text": "W. D. Wright\n\nDr. W. D. Wright (born 1936) is a professor emeritus of history at Southern Connecticut State University and the author of seven books on race and racism.\n\nHe earned a Ph.D. from State University of New York at Buffalo where he was influenced by W. E. B. Du Bois, referring to himself as a Du Boisian historical sociologist. He later published his dissertation \"The Socialist Analysis of W. E. B. Du Bois.\"\n\nWright, born 1936, was raised during the depression in Michigan City, Indiana, one of eight children. His father, Charles Noble Wright, worked as a riveter for the Pullman Train Company. His mother, Harriet Elizabeth Wright, was the first black female to graduate high school in Michigan City, Indiana. Wright's great grandmother, Elizabeth Downey, was a slave until the age of 12 in Virginia, when she was emancipated under the Emancipation Proclamation in approximately 1863.\n\nWright was a childhood friend of Richard G. Hatcher, the first black mayor in Indiana. Hatcher often delivered speeches alongside Martin Luther King, Robert F. Kennedy, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, and other historic proponents of the civil rights movement.\n\nWright contends that historians and intellectuals have failed to understand the difference between race and racism, which has in turn impaired their ability to understand who Black people are in America. He argues that Black Americans are to be distinguished from other categories of black people in the country: black Africans, West Indians, or Hispanics. While Black people are members of the black race, as are other groups of people, they are a distinct ethnic group of that race. This conceptual failure has hampered the ability of historians to define Black experience in America and to study it in the most accurate, authentic, and realistic manner possible.\n\nWright lectures often about how white people have been affected by their own racism and how it impacts upon relations between blacks and whites and the United States. He asserts that since the late 17th century, most Whites have been afflicted by their own racism, as evidenced by considerable delusional thinking, dehumanization, and alienation from America. White people have created and maintained a White racist America, which is the antithesis of liberty, equality, justice, and freedom; Black people continue to be the primary victims of this culture.\n\nWright describes the Black experience in America as reflecting some of the richest dimensions of the human experience and human existence and also some of its most oppressive and wretched realities. Black people are a people \"up from slavery\" who survived slavery, developed during slavery, and developed after slavery-all great historical achievements.\n\nToday there are many Black intellectuals who do not think of Black people as a people and have no wish to do so. They think of themselves as individuals and look upon Blacks that way as well. And this idea is espoused by more people than just the Black conservatives, although they have made a fetish of this kind of conception and Black social response in America.\n\nBlack intellectuals are mainly from the Black middle-class... [which] has lost—if it has not abandoned altogether—its historical mission, which was to help Black people as a people, as well as Black individuals, to advance and to be free in America. – W.D. Wright, excerpt from \"Crisis Of The Black Intellectual\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10396322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10396322", "title": "Young Man of Manhattan", "text": "Young Man of Manhattan\n\nYoung Man of Manhattan is a 1930 American pre-Code musical comedy film made by Paramount Pictures, directed by Monta Bell, and starring Claudette Colbert, Norman Foster, Ginger Rogers, and Charles Ruggles. It was set and filmed in New York City.\n\nJealousy comes between a young couple of newspaper people when the wife earns more money and becomes more famous than her husband. Especially his alcohol addiction becomes the dividing element, whereas the young Puff Randolph girl chasing him, and her editor falling in love with her are merely elements that challenge their love.\n\n\n"}
