{"id": "30119817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30119817", "title": "1951 Pont-Saint-Esprit mass poisoning", "text": "1951 Pont-Saint-Esprit mass poisoning\n\nThe 1951 Pont-Saint-Esprit mass poisoning, also known as Le Pain Maudit, occurred on 15 August 1951, in the small town of Pont-Saint-Esprit in southern France. More than 250 people were involved, including 4 deaths. A foodborne illness was suspected, and among these it was originally believed to be a case of \"cursed bread\" (\"pain maudit\").\n\nMost academic sources accept ergot poisoning as the cause of the epidemic, while a few theorize other causes such as poisoning by mercury, mycotoxins, or nitrogen trichloride. \n\nShortly after the incident, in September 1951, scientists writing in the \"British Medical Journal\" declared that “the outbreak of poisoning” was due to eating bread made from rye grain that was infected with the fungus. The victims appeared to have one common connection -they had eaten bread from the bakery of Roch Briand who was subsequently blamed for using flour made from contaminated rye.\n\nLater investigations suggested mercury poisoning due to the use of Panogen or other fungicides used to treat grains and seeds. \n\nIn 1982, a French researcher suggested \"Aspergillus fumigatus\", a toxic fungus produced in grain silos, as a potential culprit.\n\nIn 2008, historian Steven Kaplan published a book on the incident (in French), entitled \"Le Pain Maudit\". Kaplan asserts that the incident was connected neither to LSD research nor to ergot poisoning. Kaplan's book argues that the poisoning might have been caused by nitrogen trichloride used to artificially (and illegally) bleach flour.\n\nResearcher John Grant Fuller Jr.'s 1968 book, \"The Day of Saint Anthony's Fire\" concluded that a form of ergot that \"logically has to be akin to LSD\" was the likely culprit, but that we may never know for certain because toxicologists and doctors could not reach an agreement. Citing the opinion of toxicologists, Fuller asserts that the symptoms exhibited by victims in Pont-Saint-Esprit were not consistent with mercury poisoning.\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"A Terrible Mistake,\" writer Hank P. Albarelli Jr alleged that the Special Operations Division of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) tested the use of LSD on the population of Pont-Saint-Esprit as part of its MKNAOMI chemical behavior program in a field test dubbed Project SPAN. According to Albarelli, the ergot contamination explanation had been challenged and \"ruled out\". Historian Stephen Kaplan dismissed Albarelli's theories and assertions as \"hardly possible\", and anthropologist wrote that \"even in the secular society of the present, substitutes for the devil and other demons may be found, in this case the CIA, which some people believe capable of every conceivable evil\".\n"}
{"id": "51592158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51592158", "title": "2016 California Proposition 52", "text": "2016 California Proposition 52\n\nProposition 52 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot, regarding indefinitely extending an existing charge on hospitals to fund Medi-Cal health care services. The charge, called the \"Hospital Quality Assurance Fee\", has been collected since 2009 with temporary renewals and was scheduled to expire on January 1, 2018.\n\nArguments for the measure stated that the charge helps to secure more than $4 billion in federal matching funds annually. Additionally, the measure would help curtail the diversion of some of the funds to things other than Medi-Cal. Arguments against the measure stated that it lacks oversight and that there would still be no guarantee that funds would be spent on healthcare.\n\n"}
{"id": "25954009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25954009", "title": "Abortion in Monaco", "text": "Abortion in Monaco\n\nAbortion in Monaco is only allowed in cases of rape, fetal deformity, illness, or fatal danger to the mother. The most recent abortion legislation was enacted on 8 April 2009; before then Monaco had one of the strictest abortion laws in Europe, only allowing the procedure if there was a risk of fatality for the mother.\n\nThe previous abortion law, from 1967, outlawed abortion under any circumstance, but other previous criminal law cases agreed abortion was acceptable if it saved the life of the mother. Under the old law, women undergoing an illegal abortion were subject to a prison term up to three years, with the abortion provider subject to a prison term up to five years. If the abortion provider was in the medical profession, their right to practice medicine would be taken away.\n\nWhile abortion is partially legal in Monaco, Monaco itself is surrounded on three sides by France, where abortion is completely legal and available on demand. \n"}
{"id": "56373854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56373854", "title": "Allen Dyer", "text": "Allen Dyer\n\nAllen R. Dyer is professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences with the George Washington University. He is a distinguished life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association.\n\nDyer is a graduate of Brown University and did his MD and PhD (religion/biomedical ethics) at Duke University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16821710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16821710", "title": "Anti-oppressive practice", "text": "Anti-oppressive practice\n\nAnti-oppressive practice (AOP) is an interdisciplinary approach primarily rooted within the practice of social work that focuses on ending socioeconomic oppression. It requires the practitioner to critically examine the power imbalance inherent in an organizational structure with regards to the larger sociocultural and political context in order to develop strategies for creating an egalitarian environment free from oppression, racism, and other forms of discrimination in the larger society, by engaging at the legal and political level. In general community practice it is about responding to oppression by dominant groups and individuals. In social services it regulates any possible oppressive practices and helps in delivering welfare services in an inclusive manner.\n\nAnti-oppressive practice seeks to lessen (\"starve the beast\") the exclusion of certain social groups from social equality, rights and social justice. Social work generally is known to be a \"caring\" profession, but sometimes services provided that work for one person do not necessarily work for another or reflect the sensitivity required to work for another. Related to this there may be a 'care versus control' issue, because where there is care there is responsibility, and therefore control and power which can lead to exclusions (Humphries, 2004, p105). Knowingly and deliberately causing discrimination to another constitutes an oppressive practice, the behavior also matters as much as intent. The onus of the social worker is to show s/he exercised due diligence according to generally accepted practices and conducts him/herself in a manner generally accepted by society which constitutes as neutral/ordinary “humanity”. \n\nAn imbalance in care and control of services may lead to oppression. Lena Dominelli (2002) defines Oppression as, \"relations that divide people into dominant or superior groups and subordinate or inferior ones. These relations of domination consist of the systematic devaluing of the attributes and contributions of those deemed inferior, and their exclusion from the social resources available to those in the dominant group\". The Exclusion (E.g. Xenophobia) that results from oppression or vice versa, can affect an individual or a system greatly. This process is often evaluative, where the individual ends up measuring him/herself in a hierarchy against the other based on the personal values s/he holds. Disposing to this, results in one's identity or trait being regarded as superior to the other, thus creating an \"us-them\" dynamic (othering process) resulting in division and which creates risk for oppression.\n\nIn social work, the anti-oppressive model aims to function and promote equal, non-oppressive social relations between various identities.Dominelli (2002) defines it, \"in challenging established truths about identity, anti-oppressive practice seeks to subvert the stability of universalized biological representations of social division to both validate diversity and enhance solidarity based on celebrating difference amongst peoples\" (p. 39). It remains dedicated to principles of social justice, which is also upheld in NASW values, by acknowledging diversity within oppression and considering the intersection and hierarchies of the \"isms\" that construct people as victims or perpetrators. The anti-oppressive model analyzes and advocates against macro & micro levels of oppression and emphasizes on social justice and social change along more empowering and emancipatory lines.\n\nThe complex and unequal role of \"power\" and \"isms\" are considered as an immense complication in AOP. Those who benefit as in most relationships are those who with most power. Thompson argues that there is essentially 3 stacks of barriers in AOP. They are Personal (P), Cultural (C) and Structural (S). P refers to personal and prejudice factors. C refers to culture, commonalities, consensus and conformity. S refers to Structural aspects like sociopolitical force or other social dimensions. Thompson refers as P being embedded in C and C in S, interacting with each other in continuum.\n\nPersonal: Evaluation of gender, through feminist empowerment models tend to construct men as threatening or useless. This is particularly noted in risk assessments where domestic violence is an issue and the need to construct one person as a perpetrator. The men as threatening model ignores the reality that same-sex violence exists similar to heterosexual violence in intimate relationships and the levels of female-on-male violence.\n\nCultural: Language has a contribution to oppression in general, language with its marking function constructs social structure and an interplay in creating cultural values. Government records categorize people who are neither white or male, as \"ethnic\" presuming white people do not have an ethnicity but are the norm, and white people are often \"de-raced\" in discourses.\n\nStructural: In 2006 Aldridge on the regulations of UK immigration policies, pointed out its direct proportion with structural use of power to regulate religious and ethnic diversity. Aldridge notes religion as a cultural source on which individuals and groups draw identity, motivation, mobilization and legitimacy; and that as such it is a volatile and unpredictable resource which has the capacity for increasing both social cohesion and social conflict. These effects on immigration policy in UK populations where criticized as masking of obvious hegemonic dichotomy. In 2004 Humphries stated failure to critically analyse legislation's and social policy led \"failure to identify the inherent racism within immigration\" systems.\n\nIn community practices, AOP functions to address problems that rise due to structural imbalance; Herbert Marcuse defined the state as: \"Law and order are always and everywhere the law and order which protect the established hierarchy; it is nonsensical to invoke the absolute authority of this law and this order against those who suffer from it and struggle against it.\"\n\nProfessional practitioners are aware of the power (im)balance between service users and providers that reflects in practice, though the aim is always using this differences legitimately to empower others and reduce the experience of \"powerlessness\" and the resulting \"learned helplessness\" or the \"culture of silence\". Lois McNay in 1992 commented on this power (im)balance as \"Oppressions have always dominated on how our lives are lived, they are central to the profit base of the economy. The big three of them are gender, race and class\". McNay cites exploitive division of labour as an example.\n\nSocial work solutions to the problems of oppressed groups must include policies that address all elements of oppression. But Social workers also need to be aware that these efforts may not be necessarily supported by partners in the process of social justice.\n\nThrough AOP social work practice focuses on a more emancipatory form of practice which locates the individual people and their family within their social contexts and helps them with structural patterns of the society that perpetuate inequalities through promotion of choices.\n\nDiscussing issues in abbreviations and legal terms can be disempowering to clients and considered oppressive. Speaking plainly and clearly is considered good working practice, where the client can not only understand but can become involved in making choices and decisions about their involvement with social services. More specifically, anti-oppression deals with the negative experience of people based on their race, their gender identity, sexual identity, their physical and mental ability, their choice of religion, their class background (whether growing up poor, working poor, working, middle or upper class), their physical appearance (fat or thin), and the list goes on. It also is a way to challenge the ways people are treated based on these identities. For example, when a woman is treated in a sexist way or a person of colour experiences racism. Anti-oppressive practice is about working with the service user to include them in facilitating a user-led and user-controlled service. Healthy professional relationships will help build the confidence of the service user to enable them to develop their own ideas about their level of involvement.\n\nAOP is a part of professional social work development schema. They are bonded by this to develop counter-hegemonic understanding of cross-cultural and personal differences. Social work practitioners advocate against oppression by promoting increased respect for the \"inherent dignity and worth of all people\", and \"social justice\" (NASW, 1996). Acknowledging NASW values, along with \"the importance of human relationships,\" remains an integral part of building empowering client-practitioner relationships (NASW, 1996).\n\nAOP is a current form of progressive social work which helps to identify psychosocial issues through an intersectional lens and act on the same. It bridges the practice-activism divide and leads the society in a transformative angle in human relations. Its reformative call has opened eyes of both public and leading private management regimes and the principles resonates in effective and harmonic utilization of resources. Anti-oppressive practice does not compromise the established and traditional 1970s Anti-Discriminatory Practice (ADP) which focuses on discrimination (e.g. towards anti-racist perspective) whereas AOP deals with processes of oppression and exclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2481830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2481830", "title": "Blackwater (waste)", "text": "Blackwater (waste)\n\nBlackwater is used to describe wastewater from toilets, which likely contains pathogens. Blackwater can contain feces, urine, water and toilet paper from flush toilets. Blackwater is distinguished from greywater, which comes from household use other than toilets. Greywater results from washing food, clothing, dishes, as well as from showering or bathing.\n\nBlackwater and greywater are separated in \"ecological buildings\", such as autonomous buildings. Recreational vehicles often have separate holding tanks for greywater from showers and sinks, and blackwater from the toilet.\n\nAccording to one source:\n\nWater coming from domestic equipment other than toilets (e.g., bathtubs, showers, sinks, washing machines) is called greywater. In some sanitation systems, it is preferred to keep the greywater separate from blackwater to reduce the amount of water that gets heavily polluted and to simplify treatment methods for the greywater.\n\nBlackwater is a term dating to at least the 1970s.\n\nBlackwater contains pathogens that must decompose before they can be released safely into the environment. It is difficult to process blackwater if it contains a large quantity of excess water, or if it must be processed quickly, because of the high concentrations of organic material. \n\nHowever, if blackwater does not contain excess water, or if it receives primary treatment to de-water, then it is easily processed through composting. The heat produced by naturally occurring thermophilic microorganisms will heat the compost to over , and destroy potential pathogens.\n\nBlackwater generation can be avoided by making use of composting toilets and vermifilter toilets. In certain autonomous buildings, such as earthships, this is almost always present and allows the water requirements of the building (which, with earthships, are self-generated) to be heavily reduced. Besides saving water, composting toilets allow the user to reuse the nutrients found therein (e.g., for growing crops/trees).\n"}
{"id": "5971730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971730", "title": "Body fat redistribution syndrome", "text": "Body fat redistribution syndrome\n\nBody fat redistribution (BFR) syndrome, sometimes called fat derangement, is a medical condition characterized by fat loss (or occasionally fat gain), often in the cheeks or face. BFR most often occurs in HIV/AIDS patients undergoing antiretroviral therapy.\n\nNo firm definition of body fat redistribution syndrome exists as yet. At least four syndromes have been described that are characterized by the accumulation of fat, and one by the loss of fat; combinations of these may occur in an individual. Gender, age, and pre-therapy body weight appear to influence the severity of BFR in patients. BFR is distinct from lipodystrophy, which simply refers to fat loss.\n\nThe most common manifestations of body fat redistribution are accumulations of fat in the central body in the form of a fat pad on the back of the neck and an accumulation of visceral fat in the abdomen or belly. This fat accumulation is accompanied by a loss of subcutaneous fat in the face, arms, legs, and buttocks.\n\nCosmetic concerns may cause patients to refuse or stop treatment. If severe enough, the fat accumulation may result in sleep apnea or other sleep disorders, migraines, decreased range of motion, discomfort due to pressure on internal organs, and general loss of condition. Fat loss may result in pain in the buttocks when seated. Other potential complications resulting from BFR include high cholesterol, high levels of triglycerides, insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, diabetes, gout, and cardiovascular disease. BFR is also associated with certain metabolic abnormalities such as elevations of plasma sugar and fats, but the precise relationship is unknown.\n\nTreatment of symptoms may include cosmetic surgery such as collagen implants; treatment of the underlying syndrome may include changing from protease inhibitors to an NNRTI.\n\n"}
{"id": "10320419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10320419", "title": "C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram", "text": "C-DAC Thiruvananthapuram\n\nThe Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC(T)), formerly (ER & DCI [Electronic Research and Development Center]), Thiruvananthapuram, is a Scientific Society of the Department of Information Technology, Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Government of India. It is a National Centre of Excellence, pioneering application oriented research, design and development in Electronics and Information Technology.\n\nThe center has contributed to the electronics sector through the indigenous development of systems and products, foreign technology absorption, adaptation and upgrades, consultancy and training and turnkey implementation of contract projects.\nThis centre is formerly known as ER&DCI.\n\nThis section under the C-DAC is specialized in Indian language speech, natural language processing and assistive technologies.\n\nPower Electronics is a part of industrial control and is a major thrust area for C-DAC. The activities of the group are focused on Custom Power Devices, Power Controllers for tapping energy from non-conventional energy sources like wind and solar, Electric and Hybrid Vehicles, Automotive Electronics, Systems for Industrial Automation, Digital Controllers and Power Control Systems for Industrial application, Networking of Power Electronic systems and the Development of industrial control products like Variable Speed Drive systems, High Performance Uninterruptible Power Supply systems, High efficiency Switched Mode Power Converters, and Remote Controlled Mobile platforms.\n\nIn addition to technology development projects, the group undertakes contract projects for industries. The centre also acts as the nodal centre for the National Mission on Power Electronics Technology(NaMPET)\n\nNAMPET is a national mission programme launched in November 2004 by the Department of Information Technology(DIT) under Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Government of India. The five-year programme is implemented through the Nodal Centre at the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing. Academic institutions in the country, manufacturing industries and user industries of Power Electronics Systems participate in the programme. A National Steering Committee composed of experts from agencies and institutions in India guides the activities of NaMPET.\n\n\nThe group is involved in the design and development of products and technology for Broadcast and Communication applications.\n\nThe group has launched a range of products/technology in the last decade which have been used by All India Radio, Doordarshan, State Electronics Development Corporations, Airport Authority & Telecommunication Department.\n\nThe group has expertise in product development with mixed mode signal processing for embedded application and is involved in developing products in Digital Audio, Broadband Access, TETRA, Wi-MAx, VOIP, Bluetooth and Digital Mobile Radios.\n\nThe Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) Design Centre is an embedded centre of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, set up with the objective of application-oriented R&D for electronics products, systems and technologies. Since its inception in 1989, the ASIC Design Centre has been active in the design of high-complexity ASICs and ASIC-based products. The Centre is equipped with facilities for design of VLSI ASICs from concept to silicon.\n\nStrategic Electronics Group (SEG) has a team of 50 with skill sets for embedded product / system design. This group has acquired in house competence for total product design and technology transfer for ready to market products. This group has state of the art infrastructure and tools to support the design and development activity in the embedded product development and digital signal processing, including total package design. Main products from SEG are Echo sounder, Bottom profiler, Remotely Operated Submersible, Water level sensor, Side scan sonar, MRI, Sounds, SWAMS, Under Water Ranges etc.\n\nMain Products are \n\nThe thrust area of the group is the application oriented research and development activity relating to Control and Instrumentation. Communication being very important for effective control, plant wide networking is also added to the thrust area of the group.\n\n'Medical Informatics' is the application of computer technology to medicine such as health care, medical research and medical teaching.\n\nThe mission of 'Medical Informatics' is to carry out research on health technology, telemedicine, bio-medical imaging and applications relevant to environments in developing countries.\n\n\nICD\n\nKnowledge Resource Centre(KRC) is a major division of C-DAC. R&D and advanced technology training are the two major areas of focus which have resulted in development of products such as open source software, multilingual tools, and different training courses.\n\nThe courses offered includes Diploma in Cyber Security & Forensics, Diploma in Web Technologies and Diploma in Embedded Systems & IoT in addition to the Certificate courses on IBM Mainframe, Web Technology, Database Technology, Internet Technology, Cyber Security & Forensics, Ethical Hacking and E-Governance.\n\nKRC is located at three places. Two places in Thiruvananthapuram at Vellayambalam & Technopark and the third is near to Shenoy's Junction, MG Road, Ernakulam(Kochi). KRC, Technopark Campus offers various short term courses and placement oriented diploma programs which includes Cyber Forensics and IoT. For more details: 0471-2781500, 8547882754, krct@cdac.in. Kochi Centre is majorly concentrating on IT courses like, Dot NET Technologies using MVC, Java, Advanced Java, Java and Android Programming, PHP, C programming, C++ programming etc. The details of the complete set of courses can be gained by contacting the centre at the phone number 0484 2372422 or 2369972.\nThe centre is located at the prime location and at the heart of the city, Ernakulam. Reach-ability by train and bus is very high. KRC also undertake corporate course for different offices on their requirements. KRC provides guidance on final projects and In-plant training to students.\n\nER&DCI Institute of Technology (ER&DCI IT) is an educational institution under the direct control of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), Thiruvananthapuram. The institute is located on the campus of CDAC, in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram city. The institute is affiliated to the Kerala Technological University and has the approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).\n\nER&DCI IT began in 2001, with the MCA Programme with the motive of imparting training in Information Technology and other related areas through the three year MCA programme. The programme was structured with differences from the regular MCA programmes offered by other institutes. Hands on experience of live projects at the R & D laboratories of CDAC is aimed at preparing the students to take up work in the industry. MCA has been discontinued, the last batch will pass out in 2014.\n\n\nAdmissions to the M.Tech courses are made through the GATE (graduate aptitude test in engineering).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16805305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16805305", "title": "Chalkboard scraping", "text": "Chalkboard scraping\n\nScraping a chalkboard (also known as a blackboard) with the fingernails produces a sound and feeling which most people find extremely irritating. The basis of the innate reaction to the sound has been studied in the field of psychoacoustics (the branch of psychology concerned with the perception of sound and its physiological effects).\n\nIn response to audio stimuli, the minds way of interpreting sound can be translated through a regulatory process called The Reticular Activating System. Located in the brain stem, The Reticular Activating System continually listens, even throughout delta-wave sleep, to determine importance of sounds in relation to waking the cortex or the rest of the body from sleep. Chalkboard scraping, or noises that illicit an emotional response have been known to trigger tendencies from the fight or flight response which acts as the bodies primary self-defense mechanism.\n\nA study published in 2017, in \"Frontiers in Psychology\", found that the emotion elicited by this sound and similar sounds such as a knife scraping a plate, was similar to but distinct from disgust. The physiological response was a very slight initial fall in heart rate followed by a sharp rise, returning to normal after about 6 seconds. This pattern differed from that elicited by disgust and was shared by speakers of Spanish (which has a word for the emotion: grima) and speakers of German and English (which have no single word for the emotion). Spanish volunteers who were asked to suppress their response to \"grima\"-inducing sounds were able to do so to some extent but there was no change in response to sounds that induced disgust. Some volunteers said that \"grima\" could be induced not only by sounds but also by the feel of some objects, such as sponge rubber or cork.\n\nOne explanation for the adverse reaction is that the awful sound is similar to the warning call of a primate, back in prehistoric times. However, a study using Cotton-top tamarins, New World monkeys, found that they react similarly to both high-pitched sounds similar to fingernails on chalkboard, and to amplitude-matched white noise. In contrast, humans are less averse to the white noise than to scraping.\n\nA 1986 study used a tape-recording of a three-pronged garden tool similar to a fork being \"grided\" across a chalkboard, which roughly reproduces the sound of fingernails on chalkboard. The recording was then manipulated, removing pitches at the extremities and the median. The results were then played back. It was determined that the median pitches are in fact the primary cause of the adverse reaction, not the highest pitches as previously thought. The authors hypothesized that it was due to predation early in human evolution; the sound bore some resemblances to the alarm call of macaque monkeys, or it may have been similar to the call of some predator. This research won one of the authors, Randolph Blake, an Ig Nobel Prize in 2006. More recent research contradicts this hypothesis.\n\nIn a 2011 study, musicologists Michael Oehler and Christoph Reuter hypothesize that the unpleasantness of the sound is caused by acoustic resonance due to the shape of the human ear canal which amplifies certain frequencies, especially those in the range of 2000 to 4000 Hz (the median pitches mentioned above), at such a level that the sound would trigger pain in human ears.\n\n"}
{"id": "36251938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36251938", "title": "ClinicalKey", "text": "ClinicalKey\n\nClinicalKey is a medical search engine and database tool owned by medical and scientific publishing company Elsevier that offers access to the medical library published by that company. \n\nClinicalKey was developed by Elsevier's Global Clinical Reference (GCR) team and involved consulting more than 2,000 doctors across the world over two years. The service aims to provide a source of clinical answers. ClinicalKey uses the semantic technology of the health information service Healthline Networks. The ClinicalKey website was launched in mid-April 2012 in its third iteration after alpha and beta testing versions. It is targeted at the health institutions, universities and schools, with an individual physician subscriptions launching in the third quarter of 2012. Two ClinicalKey applications for mobile phones are due to launch in the second half of 2012.\n\nClinicalKey marks a change in Elsevier's approach to providing of clinical information through aggregated content services rather than the traditional model of journals and textbooks. The service is being marketed as a 'clinical insight engine'. The technology harnesses user behaviour and database terminology to improve search results, rather than simply pattern matching search. \n\nUsers of ClinicalKey are given full-text access to over 600 of Elsevier's journals, 1,000 books, and 9,000 medical and procedural videos. The search engine is aided by taxonomy tags known as \"smart content\" that uses EMMeT (Elsevier Merged Medical Taxonomy), and a selection of filtering tools including by journal or textbook, clinical guidelines or clinical trials, First Consult reviews, images, or the US National Institute of Health's MEDLINE database (of journal citations and abstracts for biomedical literature). Users can also export citations, images and copyright information into PowerPoint presentations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25850274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25850274", "title": "Close coupled field technology", "text": "Close coupled field technology\n\nClose coupled field technology (CCFT) is an air sterilization process that kills 99.999% of microbes, bacteria (including bacterial endospores), viruses, germs, mold spores, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), fungal air contaminants and chemical agents and their associated odors.\n\nCCFT utilizes small high-voltage coils within a Faraday cage to generate a non-thermal plasma field to destabilize inorganic and organic compounds at the molecular level. As air is passed through this electrostatic field it is converted to ozone which oxidizes airborne contaminants. Enclosing the ozone retains its ability to remove contaminants quickly while making it safe for populated environments.\n\nCCFT was originally invented by David Hallam to remove unpleasant odors from a nursing home where an ailing uncle was a resident. When the nursing staff noticed a dramatic decrease in the spread of infections, this led Hallam to further investigate CCFT. Hallam went on to develop the AirManager system, which uses a combination of CCFT and high airflow filtration (HAF), which filters any dust, pollen, airborne contaminants and resultant debris from the CCFT process down to 0.1 micrometres.\n\nCCFT technology is a variation of a class of technologies called non-thermal plasma, which are based on the discharge of high voltage static electricity. Using a variety of configurations, two electrodes are separated by various dielectric insulating materials. A voltage is increasingly applied to one electrode until it exceeds the dielectric capacity of the insulators, whereupon electric discharge occurs. When the electricity is discharged in the presence of air, high energy electrons are formed which react with the chemicals and pathogens in air through a complex series of free radical reactions. As molecular oxygen is always present in air, ozone is always formed as well. The use of small high voltage coils distinguishes this method from other approaches that use different configurations of dual electrodes, such as a wire insulated by glass beads passing through the center of a metal pipe, which serves as the second electrode. <EPA (Using Non Thermal Plasma to Control Air Pollutants, E143-03, Feb. 2005, Clean Air Technology Center, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.<\n\n"}
{"id": "50425977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50425977", "title": "Consecutive controlled case series", "text": "Consecutive controlled case series\n\nA consecutive controlled case series (CCCS) is a clinical study that involves aggregating multiple cases consecutively encountered wherein an experimentally controlled single-case experimental design was employed with each case. The CCCS design differs from the consecutive case series, because the latter reports on multiple cases where experimental control was not demonstrated, usually because a pre-post non experimental design was used. In contrast, a CCCS includes only cases where the intervention was evaluated using single-case experimental designs, such as a reversal design, where experimental control is demonstrated through the replication of treatment effects for each individual participant. Thus, the CCCS design has better internal validity than a consecutive case series. The CCCS design also address some concerns about the external validity or generality of findings of small-\"n\" single-case experimental design studies because it explicitly includes all cases encountered, regardless of outcome. By including all cases, any bias favoring a particular outcome in controlled for, resulting in stronger external validity relative to studies describing fewer cases that were not consecutively encountered. Moreover, when a large number of individuals are included in the series, this provides opportunities to identify variables that may predict treatment outcomes. Consecutive controlled case-series studies examining behavior analytic interventions of late have examined functional communication training. schedule thinning during functional communication training, and functional analysis and treatment using caregivers\n\nAs with any experimental design, the CCCS design has limitations. When the sample in the series is drawn from a particular clinic, there is the potential that that sample may not be representative of the broader population because of referral bias. One additional limitation of reporting on a series of cases receiving clinical treatment (as opposed to participants enrolled in a formal research protocol) is that there tend to be variations in how the treatment is applied across participants. This is particularly the case with behavioral interventions which are individualized, and continuously evaluated, and altered based on the individual’s response. An ideal middle ground would involve the use of treatment algorithms to structure how treatment components are sequenced while still preserving the response-guided approach that is the hallmark of good clinical practice in applied behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13136209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13136209", "title": "Cornelius P. Rhoads", "text": "Cornelius P. Rhoads\n\nCornelius Packard \"Dusty\" Rhoads (June 9, 1898 – August 13, 1959) was an American pathologist, oncologist, and hospital administrator. Beginning in 1940, he served as director of Memorial Hospital for Cancer Research in New York, from 1945 was the first director of Sloan-Kettering Institute, and the first director of the combined Memorial Sloan–Kettering Cancer Center. For his contributions to cancer research, Rhoads was featured on the cover of the June 27, 1949 issue of \"Time\" magazine under the title \"Cancer Fighter\".\n\nDuring his early years with the Rockefeller Institute in the 1930s, Rhoads specialized in anemia and leukemia, working for six months in Puerto Rico in 1932 as part of the Rockefeller Foundation International Health Board contingent. During World War II, he worked for the United States Army helping to develop chemical weapons and set up research centers. Research on mustard gas led to developments for its use in chemotherapy at Sloan Kettering.\n\nIn early 1932, a letter Rhoads had written in November 1931, which disparaged Puerto Ricans and claimed he had killed and intentionally injected cancer cells into his patients, was given by a lab assistant to Puerto Rican nationalist leader Pedro Albizu Campos. He publicized the letter in the Puerto Rican and American media, which led to a scandal, an official investigation, and a US whitewashing campaign to protect Rhoads and, by extension, Rockefeller interests. In the ensuing investigation, Rhoads defended himself, saying he had written his comments in anger and as a joke to a New York colleague. Neither Puerto Rico's Attorney General nor the medical community found evidence of his or the project's giving any inappropriate medical treatment, and the scandal was forgotten.\n\nIn 2002, the controversy was revived. Alerted to the incident, American Association for Cancer Research (AACR), which had established the Cornelius P. Rhoads Memorial Award in 1979, commissioned a new investigation. It was led by Jay Katz, emeritus professor at Yale Law School and a specialist in medical ethics. He concluded there was no evidence of unethical human experimentation, but the letter was so offensive that the prize should be renamed. AACR concurred and stripped the honor from Rhoads because of his racism.\n\nRhoads was born June 20, 1898, in Springfield, Massachusetts, as the son of an ophthalmologist, Dr. George H. Rhoads, and his wife. He received his early education in Springfield, later attending Bowdoin College in Maine, where he graduated in 1920. He entered Harvard Medical School, where he became class president, and in 1924, he received his M.D., \"cum laude\". Rhoads became an intern at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, and contracted pulmonary tuberculosis. During his treatment and recovery, he developed a lifelong interest in disease research.\n\nAfter recovering from TB, Rhoads published a paper on the tuberculin reaction with Fred W. Stewart, who became his longtime colleague. Rhoads taught as a pathologist at Harvard and conducted research on disease processes.\n\nIn 1929 Rhoads joined the staff of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, now Rockefeller University, where he worked for Simon Flexner. He was also staff pathologist at Rockefeller Hospital. His early research interests included hematology and poliomyelitis. He worked at Rockefeller until 1939.\n\nWhile working for the Rockefeller Institute, in 1931 Rhoads was invited by hematologist William B. Castle to join his Rockefeller Anemia Commission, to conduct clinical research at Presbyterian Hospital in San Juan, Puerto Rico. This was part of the Rockefeller Foundation's sanitary commission on the island through the International Health Division. Castle's research interest was pernicious iron deficiency anemia, specifically as caused by the parasitic hookworm, which was endemic on the island at rates of 80%, and tropical sprue. An effective treatment for the latter had just been developed, although the disease's causes remained obscure. As recently as 2010, medical journal \"Nieto Editores\" reported that these conditions continued to cause high mortality in Puerto Ricans. The cause of tropical sprue has still not been identified, but since the 1940s, it can be treated with folic acid and a 3 to 6-month course of antibiotics.\n\nRhoads was to assist Castle, and they established a base in San Juan at the Presbyterian Hospital. Rhoads corresponded often with Simon Flexner at the Rockefeller Institute in New York regarding his research and career interests. In Puerto Rico, the Rockefeller group had more than 200 patients; historian and ethicist Susan E. Lederer notes that, while referred to as patients, they were primarily clinical subjects whose conditions were studied to advance medical research. Because of the effects of anemia and the suspicion that tropical sprue was related to diet, Rhoads experimentally controlled patients' diets. Lederer notes that in letters from this time, Rhoads referred to his patients as \"experimental 'animals'.\" He wrote: \"If they don’t develop something they certainly have the constitutions of oxen.\" Rhoads sought to experimentally induce the conditions he was studying in his patients rather than simply treat them. If they did develop tropical sprue, he could treat it with liver extract.\n\nCastle wanted to perform a similar study in Cidra, in conjunction with the School of Tropical Medicine, which was doing related research, but this was not approved. Rhoads also collected polio serum samples for his boss Flexner at the Rockefeller Institute, for which he was assisted by contacts at the university.\n\nOn 10 November 1931, Rhoads was at a party at a Puerto Rican co-worker's house in Cidra. After having some drinks, he left, and found that his car had been vandalized and several items stolen. He went to his office, where he wrote and signed a letter addressed to \"Ferdie\" (Fred W. Stewart, a colleague from Boston, by then working at the Memorial Hospital for Cancer Research in New York).\n\nHe wrote the following:\nHis unmailed letter was found by one of his staff and circulated among workers at the Anemia Commission. When Rhoads learned of this, he quickly made a public apology at a meeting of all staff and doctors. A while later, he was dismayed to hear that the letter was going to be discussed at a meeting of the Puerto Rico Medical Association. With relations having deteriorated locally, he returned to New York in December 1931.\n\nAt the end of December, Rhoads' former lab technician Luis Baldoni resigned; he later testified that he feared for his safety. In January 1932 he gave the Rhoads letter to Pedro Albizu Campos, president of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party. Albizu Campos sought publicity about the incident, sending copies of the letter to the League of Nations, the Pan American Union, the American Civil Liberties Union, newspapers, embassies, and the Vatican.\n\nIn addition to distributing the letter to the media, Albizu wrote his own, charging that Rhoads was part of a US plot to exterminate Puerto Ricans. He linked the letter to other complaints about American imperialism, saying that the US governors in Puerto Rico encouraged labor emigration rather than improving employment, and promoted birth control, which was offensive to the majority Catholic residents. Later that year Governor Beverley struggled with a greater political crisis than the Rhoads letter over his own remarks encouraging birth control use on the island. Residents were outraged and he was removed from office.\n\nA photograph of the Rhoads' letter was published on January 27, 1932 in \"La Democracia,\" the Unionist newspaper of Antonio Rafael Barceló, with a translation in Spanish of the entire letter. It did not support Albizu Campos' theory of a US conspiracy against Puerto Rico. On February 13, \"El Mundo\" published the entire letter, in both Spanish and English.\n\nThe Rhoads' letter created one of the first crises for James Beverley, newly appointed as the acting Governor of Puerto Rico. He said the letter was a \"confession of murder\" and \"a libel against the people of Puerto Rico\", and ordered an investigation, one of his first acts. Beverley said of Rhoads that \"he was just a damned fool, ... a good doctor, but not very strong mentally on anything else.\" Rhoads, already back in New York, released an official response to the media and the governor. He insisted that he was joking in his letter, which was intended to be confidential, calling it a \"fantastic and playful composition written entirely for my own diversion and intended as a parody on supposed attitudes of some American minds in Porto Rico,\" explaining that nothing \"was ever intended to mean other than the opposite of what was stated.\" Rhoads offered to return to clear things up, but never did. The governor's inquiry concluded that Rhoads did not commit the acts included in his letter, nor any other crimes.\n\nRhoads and his work were investigated by the Puerto Rican Attorney General Ramon Quinones, with review of medical aspects by Dr. P. Morales Otero, representative of the Puerto Rico Medical Association, and Dr. E, Garrido Morales, representing the Commissioner of Health. Sworn testimony was taken from several of Rhoads' patients as well as his colleagues, including Castle, William Galbreath, and George C. Payne. They reviewed the case files for the 257 patients treated by Rhoads and the Rockefeller Commission, including the 13 patients who died during this period. They found no evidence of the crimes described in Rhoads' unmailed letter. The Attorney General and medical community joined in absolving Rhoads of the Nationalist charges that he was part of a US plot to exterminate Puerto Ricans. Rhoads was subject to separate investigations ordered by the acting American governor of Puerto Rico James R. Beverley and the Rockefeller Institute, and \"neither...was able to uncover any evidence that Dr. Rhoads had exterminated any Puerto Ricans.\"\n\nConfirmed in Lederer's 21st century account, \"records at Presbyterian Hospital in San Juan, Puerto Rico, where Rhoads had performed his research, revealed no patients in the young pathologist's care had died under suspicious circumstances.\" Additionally, the investigators were \"unable to confirm Rhoads's other claim (omitted in \"Time\" 's account) that he had 'transplanted cancer into several patients.'\"\n\nDuring the investigations, Ivy Lee, who handled public relations for the Rockefeller family, and a team at the Institute began a campaign to defend Rhoads' reputation. He was seen as a promising researcher. The Rockefeller Foundation also wanted to protect its working relationship with medical organizations in Puerto Rico and avoid problems with critics of human experimentation in the US. During the early 1930s, there was a revival of the anti-vivisectionist movement in the US, which also was concerned about the use of vulnerable populations as human subjects of experimentation: children (especially orphans), prisoners, and soldiers. As Lederer observed, \"some members of the medical community...monitored the popular and medical press.\" Francis Peyton Rous of the Rockefeller Institute was editor of the \"Journal of Experimental Medicine\" through the 1930s and 1940s. Although it accepted few articles on clinical research, he was careful about their wording in an effort to avoid criticism by the anti-vivisectionists.\n\nLee was given access to pre-published versions of the articles on the controversy by both \"The New York Times\" and \"Time.\" He persuaded \"Time\" to eliminate the words \"and transplanting cancer into several more,\" from its published version of the letter. Also, based on the positive testimony of some patients, \"The New York Times\" headlined its article as \"Patients Say Rhoads Saved Their Lives\" and reported on this aspect as well. Rhoads had returned to New York before the scandal broke in Puerto Rico. After the Attorney General's report and that of the Rockefeller Institute in 1932, the controversy quickly faded in the United States.\n\nReaction to the Rhoads scandal and controversy was mixed in the United States, in part due to the Rockefeller campaign. Starr says (in his 2003 article on the scandal) that Rhoads' colleagues did not believe the researcher's attempt to cast his letter as a \"fantastic and playful composition...intended as a parody.\" Some were worried about Rhoads' mental health at the time. A superior dismissed the incident as a case of local ingratitude. \"Time\" magazine headlined the incident as \"Porto Ricochet\"; Starr suggests they meant that Rhoads's humanitarian work in Puerto Rico had come back to bite him.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, Albizu Campos used the Rhoads scandal as part of his anti-colonial campaign, attracting followers to the Nationalist Party. In 1950, longtime Puerto Rican pro-independence activists Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola tried to assassinate President Truman to bring their cause to the world stage. When later interviewed, Collazo said that as a young man, in 1932 he heard Albizu Campos speak about the Rhoads letter and decided to devote his life to the Nationalist movement.\n\nFollowing his study in Puerto Rico, in 1933 Rhoads was chosen to lead a special service at the Rockefeller Institute in clinical hematology, to study diseases of the blood-forming organs. He built on his research on anemia and tropical sprue. In 1934 Rhoads and another researcher published results of the success in using liver extract therapy to treat tropical sprue (and relieve anemia). Their work was recognized as contributing benefit in treatment of the disease by others in the field.\n\nIn 1940, Rhoads was selected as director of Memorial Hospital, which was devoted to cancer care and research, and had recently moved into a new building. Rhoads was selected for his interest in clinical investigation in addition to laboratory research, as the hospital did research as well as treatment. He succeeded James Ewing, a noted oncologist. Ewing had written about cancer transplantation in 1931, a subject which Rhoads had referred to in his scandalous letter written in November of that year. In 1941 Rhoads was studying the use of radiation to treat leukemia.\n\nDuring World War II, Rhoads was commissioned as a colonel and assigned as chief of medicine in the Chemical Weapons Division of the U.S. Army. He established the U.S. Army chemical weapons laboratories in Utah, Maryland, and Panama. For this work, he won the Legion of Merit in 1945.\n\nDue to his casualty studies on mustard gas from an accident during the war in Italy, Rhoads became interested in its potential for cancer treatment. For the rest of his life, his research interest was in developing chemotherapy for cancer treatment, but he served primarily as an administrator and scientific director at Memorial and Sloan-Kettering. From studies of mustard gas, he developed a drug called mechlorethamine or Mustargen. Its success in clinical trials during the war years was the basis for the development of the field of anti-cancer chemotherapy. Rhoads also became interested in total body irradiation, which led to early work on chemotherapy.\n\nIn 1945 Sloan-Kettering Institute was founded as a cancer research center, in the hopes that an industrial approach to research would yield a cure. It opened in 1948. While still director of Memorial, from 1945 until 1953 Rhoads also served as the first director of the Sloan-Kettering Institute. He was \"praised by Memorial for his 'essential role in the evolution of the hospital into a modern medical center.'\" As director of Sloan-Kettering, he had oversight as well over research related to Department of Defense radiation experiments through 1954. For instance, that year, a Sloan-Kettering team began a multi-year study of \"Post-Irradiation Syndrome in Humans.\"\n\nIn 1953, Rhoads stepped back slightly, becoming scientific director of the newly merged Memorial Sloan–Kettering Cancer Center. He also continued as the scientific director of Sloan-Kettering operations. He also was an adviser to the United States Atomic Energy Commission regarding nuclear medicine. Some AEC funding supported Sloan-Kettering research into the use of iodine to transport radiation to cancer tumors.\n\nRhoads continued to serve as scientific director of the Memorial Sloan–Kettering Cancer Center until his death. He died of a coronary occlusion on August 13, 1959, in Stonington, Connecticut. In 1979, on the 20th anniversary of his death, the American Association of Cancer Research established the Cornelius P. Rhoads Memorial Prize in his honor, as an annual award to a promising young researcher.\n\n\nIn 1982, Puerto Rican social scientist and writer Pedro Aponte-Vázquez discovered new information at various archives which raised questions about the investigations conducted on Rhoads and Rockefeller Project. Most prominent among his findings was a 1932 letter written by Governor Beverly to the associate director of the Rockefeller Foundation, stating that Rhoads had written a second letter \"even worse than the first\" and which, according to Beverley, the [Puerto Rican] government had suppressed and destroyed. In 1932 the Puerto Rican Attorney General, aided by top-ranking Puerto Rican doctors, had investigated all of the work of Rhoads and the Rockefeller Project, including 13 deaths that occurred among nearly 300 patients treated. They found no evidence of wrongdoing or crimes. In addition, Rhoads' superior at the Rockefeller Project had conducted a close investigation of the 13 patients who died under Rhoads' tenure, but found no evidence of wrongdoing. But in 1982 Aponte-Vázquez urged the Puerto Rico Department of Justice to reopen the case. It refused as Rhoads had been dead for so long.\n\nIn 2002, Edwin Vazquez, a biology professor at the University of Puerto Rico, came across Rhoads' 1932 letter and contacted the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) about it. Given the letter's offensive nature, he demanded that Rhoads' name be removed from the AACR award. Others also contacted the AACR, including Puerto Rico's Secretary of State Ferdinand Mercado. Revival of the issue generated a fresh wave of publicity. The AACR, which said it had not known of the 1932 controversy, commissioned an investigation led by Jay Katz, a bioethicist from Yale University. Katz said although \"there was no evidence of Dr. Rhoads' killing patients or transplanting cancer cells, the letter itself was reprehensible enough to remove his name from the award.\" The AACR agreed with his conclusion.\n\nEric Rosenthal of \"Oncology Times\" in 2003 characterized the case as the AACR having to \"deal with the embarrassment of having history catch up to modern-day sensibilities.\" He wrote, \nThe complicated legacy of Cornelius \"Dusty\" Rhoads, who died in 1959, should not cause society to promote nor deny his existence but should provide a perspective that neither condones what he wrote or thought—or the whitewashing of the incident by institutions and media of the 1930s—but that does give him due appropriate credit for his accomplishments as well as acknowledgement of his faults and sins.\"\n\nIn 2003 the AACR renamed the award, stripping the honor from Rhoads posthumously. The AACR indicated that the new name would be retroactive and past awardees would receive updated plaques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210930", "title": "Cuca shop", "text": "Cuca shop\n\nA Cuca shop is a Southern African term for a \"Shebeen\"—an unlicensed house selling alcoholic liquor.\n\nThe term is used in Namibia and Angola, and is derived from a Portuguese make of Cuca beer, which was available in Angola (a Portuguese colony) during the 1960s and the 1970s. South African Defence Force troops, who patrolled the northern area during the bush war, frequently purchased mahango beer and Owambo liquor at these tin shack shebeens.\n\nThe term \"Cuca shop\" featured prominently in the launch edition of Hai Ti!, a Creative-Commons released comic strip that spread the word about the ways that computers and the internet can transform learners' and teachers' lives. Hai Ti! was created by School Net Namibia, a nonprofit provider of internet service, hardware and training to the schools of Namibia.\n"}
{"id": "52566424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52566424", "title": "Cuffitis", "text": "Cuffitis\n\nCuffitis is inflammation at the anal transition zone or “cuff” created as a result of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA). It is considered a variant form of ulcerative colitis that occurs in the rectal cuff. Cuffitis is a common complication of IPAA, particularly when a stapled anastomosis without mucosectomy procedure has been used.\n\nSymptoms of cuffitis mimic those of pouchitis. In addition, patients with cuffitis often present with small volume bloody bowel movements. Often, cuffitis can produce the appearance of bright red blood on tissue.\nSurgery-associated ischemia may contribute inflammation at the anal transitional zone.\n\nPatients whose cuffitis is refractory to mesalamine and/or corticosteroids should be evaluated for other disease in the cuff area, such as fistula or anastomotic leaks. Cuffitis that is refractory to medication can also be a sign of Crohn's disease of the pouch.\n\nChronic cuffitis can also contribute to the development of anastomotic stricture.\n\nCuffitis that is refractory, Crohn's-related, or is associated with surgical complications can contribute to pouch failure.\n\nDefinitive diagnose of cuffitis is obtained by endoscopy.\n\nCuffitis is treated with mesalamine suppositories or topical application of lidocaine or corticosteroid medications. Systemic medications are rarely used.\n"}
{"id": "32961979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32961979", "title": "Dahlia Lynley-Chivers", "text": "Dahlia Lynley-Chivers\n\nDahlia is a fictional character from \"The Southern Vampire Mysteries/Sookie Stackhouse Series\" by author Charlaine Harris.\nHowever, she only appears briefly in the novels and the only time she appears on the same page as Sookie Stackhouse is in \"All Together Dead\".\nDahlia is the main character in a computer game and in a growing number of non-Sookie-related—though set in the same fictional universe—short stories. <br>\nShe is a vampire and lives in the city of Rhodes, Iowa.\n\nIt is mentioned in \"Bacon\" that her original name was too difficult to spell and pronounce for people of the twentieth century so around 1925 she changed it to 'Dahlia' for her own convenience.\nIn 1940, staying in London during the Blitz, Dahlia adopted a surname to get new papers. Since that time her full name has been Dahlia Lynley-Chivers.\n\nIn \"Dahlia Underground\" she tells humans that she \"perhaps\" has been a vampire for 900 years, but it is repeatedly said that she is very old, even ancient.\n\nThere are a few more hints about her actual age. For example, she considers her knowledge of some no-longer-spoken languages to be really advantageous. It is also said (in the same short story) that her friend Thalia, who is also originally from Greece and even older than Dahlia, is so ancient that she came across Odysseus \"a time or two\".\n\nDahlia is Greek, and that is almost the only thing known about her origins.\nAs a little girl she shared a tutor with her brother, but that stopped after it was decided that a girl didn't need any more education.\nShe was brought over (made a vampire) at the age of 18.\n\nDahlia is petite and beautiful. Sookie thinks that the vampire has got \"the straightest back and longest rippling black hair\" she has ever seen\" (All Together Dead)\".\n\nDahlia has large green eyes \"(Tacky)\"\nand her face is described either as round or as heart-shaped.\nDahlia is quite small: 4 feet 9 inches tall \"(A Very Vampire Christmas)\".\n\nShe wears stilettos whenever possible and is very particular about her clothes.\n\nShe possesses the rare ability to fly—an ability shared by her nestmate Glenda \"(Tacky)\" and Sookie's vampire husband Eric, Sheriff of Area Five in Louisiana.\n\nSookie sees Dahlia as very \"direct in her judgement\". She also mentions that Dahlia behaves \"regally\" in the company of the Queen Sophie-Anne.\nDahlia is supremely confident in her strength, wits and lethality. She is usually very composed and has a violent, vengeful nature. Dahlia is seen smiling only rarely (usually before a good battle), but she has got a dark sense of humor. Immediately after her husband's death she experiences difficulties with controlling her temper.\n\nIn The Sookie Stackhouse Companion\nit is said that Dahlia \"loves her men and her high-heels\".\nReaders always witness Dahlia either involved in a romantic relationship or eager to get involved. In spite of her pronounced disgust with the non-vampiric, she is equally ready to notice strength, courage and physical beauty in all males:\nvamps, \"breathers\" and Weres.\n\nIn \"Tacky\", she meets her future husband, Todd,\na werewolf, a second-in-command in the Swift-Foot pack. After about two years of happiness Todd is murdered and avenged by Dahlia.\n\nIn \"A Very Vampire Christmas\", a reader sees her dating Matsudo Katamori, a vampire.\n\nDahlia has got a vampire best friend, Taffy, married to Don Swiftfoot, a werewolf packleader. It is said in \"Tacky\" that Taffy and Dahlia have been friends for about two centuries and share a lot of memories.\nDahlia is the maid of honour at Taffy and Don's wedding and is responsible for security on the bride's side.\n\nAfter mutually saving each other's lives in \"Dahlia Underground\" Dahlia sort of befriends firefighters of Thirty-four Company.\n\nThe nature of her occupation is not mentioned, but she tells her husband-to-be, Todd, that she does her nest leader's bidding and contributes to his wealth.\nThe nest leader and vampire sheriff of Rhodes is Cedric Deeming.\n\nBy the time readers first meet Dahlia in \"Tacky\"\nshe has lived under his rule for about 20 years and plays the role of the nest reinforcer.\n\nDahlia is respected enough among vampires to be on a judges' panel (that also includes Bill Compton and an unidentified blond vampire) at the vampire summit in Rhodes in \"All Together Dead\". After the explosions at the 'Pyramid of Gizeh' hotel (\"Dahlia Underground\"), Dahlia and her friend Taffy are appointed by Cedric to conduct the investigation.\n\nIn the \"Dying for Daylight\" game, Dahlia once again performs as an investigator. Later, in \"Death by Dahlia\", she and former policeman Matsuda Katamori are chosen by Joaquin, the new sheriff, for yet another investigation.\n\n\nGame description\n\nPlot\n"}
{"id": "32039834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32039834", "title": "Dental avulsion", "text": "Dental avulsion\n\nDental avulsion is the complete displacement of a tooth from its socket in alveolar bone owing to trauma.\n\nThe treatment for permanent teeth consists of replantation, immediately if possible. Deciduous teeth should not be replanted due to the risk of damaging the permanent tooth germ. Immediate replantation ensures the best possible prognosis but is not always possible since more serious injuries may be present. Studies have shown that teeth that are protected in a physiologically ideal media can be replanted within 15 minutes to one hour after the accident with good prognosis. The success of delayed replantation depends on the vitality of the cells remaining on the root surface. In normal conditions, a tooth is connected to the socket by means of the periodontal ligament. When a tooth is knocked out, that ligament stretches and splits in half. Maintaining the vitality of the cells that remain attached to the root surface is the key to success following replantation. Years ago, it was thought that the key to maintaining root cell vitality was keeping the knocked-out tooth wet, thus giving rise to storage media recommendations such as water, the mouth and milk. Recent research has shown that one of the key elements for maintaining vitality is storing the tooth in an environment that closely resembles the original socket environment. This environment is one that has the proper osmolality (cell pressure), pH, nutritional metabolites and glucose. There are scientifically designed storage media that provide this environment. These storage media are now available in retail products. Use of devices that incorporate the ideal storage media and protective apparatuses have increased the success rate of replanted knocked-out teeth to over 90% when used within sixty minutes of the accident.\n\nThe best method for the prevention of knocked-out teeth is the use of helmets and mouth protectors. Mouth protectors can be very inexpensive, however, the compliance rate for their use is poor. Studies have shown that, even when mandated, athletes and other high risk individuals often will not use them. Also, even with their use, mouth guards can be knocked-out, leaving the user unprotected.\n\nDental avulsion is a real dental emergency in which prompt management (within 20–40 minutes of injury) affects the prognosis of the tooth. The avulsed permanent tooth should be gently but well rinsed with saline, with care taken not to damage the surface of the root which may have living periodontal fiber and cells. Once the tooth and mouth are clean an attempt can be made to re-plant in its original socket within the alveolar bone and later splinted by a dentist for several weeks. Failure to re-plant the avulsed tooth within the first 40 minutes after the injury may result in a less favorable prognosis for the tooth. If the tooth cannot be immediately replaced in its socket, follow the directions for Treatment of knocked-out (avulsed) teeth and cold milk or saliva and take it to an emergency room or a dentist. If the mouth is sore or injured, cleansing of the wound may be necessary, along with stitches, local anesthesia, and an update of tetanus immunization if the mouth was contaminated with soil. Management of injured primary teeth differs from management of permanent teeth; avulsed primary tooth should not be re-planted (to avoid damage to the permanent dental crypt).\n\nAlthough some dentists advise that the best treatment for an avulsed tooth is immediate replantation, for a variety of reasons this can be difficult for the non-professional person. The teeth are often covered with debris. This debris must be washed off with a physiological solution and not scrubbed. Often multiple teeth are knocked-out and the person will not know which socket an individual tooth belongs to. The injured victim may have other more serious injuries that require more immediate attention or injuries such as a severely lacerated bleeding lip or gum that prevent easy visualization of the socket. Pain may be severe and the person may resist replantation of the teeth. People may, in light of infectious diseases (e.g. HIV), fear handling the teeth or touching the blood associated with them. If immediate replantation is not possible, the teeth should be placed in an appropriate storage solution and brought to a dentist who can then replant them. The dentist will clean the socket, wash the teeth if necessary, and replant them into their sockets. He will splint them to non-knocked-out teeth for a maximum of two weeks for teeth with normal alveolar process and bone support. Properly handled, even replantation of periodontally compromised permanent teeth in older patients under good maintenance have been reported, with splinting extending for over 4 weeks due to the reduced support structure for the root due to periodontal disease. One week to ten days after the replantation, the dental pulps of the replanted teeth should be removed and a root canal treatment completed within two months.\n\nIn addition, as recommended in all dental traumas good oral hygiene with 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate mouthwash, a soft and cold diet, and avoidance of smoking for several days may provide a favorable condition for periodontal ligaments regeneration.\n\nEvery tooth is connected to its surrounding bone by the periodontal ligament. The tooth receives its nourishment through this ligament. When a tooth is knocked-out, this ligament is stretched and splits in half; half stays on the tooth root and half stays on the socket wall. If these two halves can be kept alive, the tooth can be replanted and the halves of the ligament will reattach and the tooth will remain vital. The half that stays on the socket wall, since it remains connected to the bone blood supply, is naturally kept alive. However, the ligament cells that remain on the tooth root lose their blood and nutrition supply and must be artificially maintained. They must be protected from two potentially destructive processes: cell crushing and loss of normal cell metabolism. All treatment between the time of the accident and the ultimate replantation must be focused on preventing these two possibilities.\n\nWhen teeth are knocked-out, they end up on an artificial surface: the floor, the ground or material such as carpeting. If the surface is hard, the tooth root cells will be traumatized. Since the cells remaining on the tooth root are very delicate, additional trauma to the tooth root cells must be avoided so as to avoid more tooth root cell crushing. This damage can occur while picking the tooth up and/or during transportation to the dentist.\n\nWhen a tooth is picked up, it should always be grasped by the enamel on the crown. Finger pressure on the tooth root cells will cause cell crushing. Any attempt to clean off any debris should be avoided. Debris should always be washed off gently with, at the very least, a physiologic saline. Even with the use of a physiologic saline, the “scrubbing” of the tooth root to remove debris must be avoided. When placed in a physiologic solution, the tooth should be gently agitated to permit the cleansing of the tooth root. At the same time that this agitation occurs, the bumping of the tooth root against a hard surface such as glass, plastic or even cardboard must also be avoided. For the same reasons, the method in which the knocked-out teeth are transported must be carefully selected. Placing the knocked-out teeth in transporting vehicles such as tissues and handkerchiefs can be damaging and transporting them in glass or cardboard containers can also be potentially damaging to the cells. In addition to the potential damage that the hard surface can cause, glass containers have the added possibility of breakage or leakage of the physiologic storage fluid. If the glass container does not have a tightly fitting top, then during the transportation, the physiologic storage solution can spill out and the teeth can fall, once again, on the floor and, at the same time, be out of a physiologic environment.\n\nNormally metabolizing tooth root cells have an internal cell pressure (osmolality) of 280-300 mOs and a pH of 7.2. When there is an uninterrupted blood supply, all of the metabolites (calcium, phosphate, potassium) and glucose that the cells require are provided. When the tooth is knocked-out, this normal blood supply is cut off and within 15 minutes most of the stored metabolites have been depleted and the cells will begin to die. Within one to two hours, enough cells will die that rejection of the tooth by the body at a later time is the usual outcome. The method by which the body rejects the replanted tooth is a process called “replacement root resorption”. During this process, the tooth root cells become necrotic (dead) and will activate the immunologic mechanism of the body to attempt to remove this necrotic layer and literally eats away the tooth root. This is called “root resorption” It is a slow, but non-painful, process that is sometimes not observed by x-rays for years. Once this process starts, it is irreversible and the tooth will eventually fall out. In growing children, this can cause bone development problems because the replacement resorption (also termed ankylosis) attaches the tooth firmly to the jaw bone and stops normal tooth eruption and impedes normal jaw growth.\n\nResearch has shown that the critical factor for reduction of the death of the tooth root cells and the subsequent root replacement resorption following reimplantation of knocked-out teeth is maintenance of normal cell physiology and metabolism of the cells left on the tooth root while the tooth is out of the socket. In order to maintain this normalcy, the environment in which the teeth are stored must supply the optimum internal cell pressure, cell nutrients and pH.\n\nThere are many storage media available for knocked-out tooth storage. The most often recommended are: saliva, physiologic saline, milk and pH balanced cell preserving fluids. Water and ice have been shown to damage the tooth root cells, and as such, avulsed teeth should never be stored in them. The osmolality and pH of water and ice is very low (7-17mOs) compared to normal cell pressure (280 mOs). When a knocked-out tooth is placed in water, the cells attempt to equalize with the surrounding environment, the cell fluid tries to move to the outside pressure environment and burst. Water with table salt in it is damaging to the knocked out teeth.\n\nSaliva, that is placing the tooth under the accident victim’s tongue or in the cheek, has been recommended. Saliva, as a storage media, causes twice damage as water. Its osmolality is very low, causing bursting of the tooth root cells, but additionally, because saliva is filled with its normal flora of microorganisms, it will severely infect the tooth root cells. When the tooth is replanted, not only will the cells be necrotic but they will also infect the bone socket.\nPhysiologic saline has a fairly compatible osmolality and will not cause cell swelling but it lacks the metabolites and glucose necessary for maintenance of normal cell metabolism.\n\nMilk has been also recommended as a storage medium for avulsed teeth. Its advantage is the high availability of fresh whole milk. Only whole milk can be used for tooth preservation. Skim milk and heavy cream do not have the correct fluid pressure and will cause damage to the root cells. Milk has no observed regenerative properties for cells on knocked out teeth.\n\nIt was discovered 30 years ago that milk was less damaging to knocked out teeth than water or saliva. It was recommended because it has a compatible osmolality (fluid pressure) to tooth root cells and it is thought to be readily available. However, like physiologic saline, milk lacks the necessary metabolites and glucose necessary to maintain normal cell metabolism of the tooth root cells. The cells on knocked-out tooth roots in milk do not die immediately but are unable to replicate (mitosis) and so are less able to reform new cells when replanted.\n\nThe most optimum storage media that are available have been shown to be pH balanced cell preserving solutions. The best known and most extensively tested is called Hank’s Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS). It has all of the metabolites such as Ca, phosphate ions, K+ and glucose that are necessary to maintain normal cell metabolism for long periods of time. HBSS has been extensively tested in dental and medical research for the past twenty years. This research has shown that 90% of cells stored in HBSS for 24 hours maintain their normal viability and after four days, still have 70%viable. In research studies, extracted dog’s teeth that have been placed in HBSS for four days can still be replanted with little signs of resorption. Hank's Balanced Salt Solution is found in a Save-A-Tooth, a storage device for the storage, preservation, and regeneration of tooth root cells.\n\nHBSS also has been shown to be capable of replacing lost cell metabolites. Since a cell that has been cut off from its blood supply depletes its stored metabolites after fifteen minutes, a tooth that has been extra-oral for one hour has less vital cells to reconnect with the bone ligament cells.\n\nSome studies in dental research have shown that knocked out teeth that have been dry for up to one hour will have less resorption if they are soaked in a HBSS for 30 minutes prior to replantation. In these studies, dog’s teeth were extracted and left dry for 30, 45 and 60 minutes and then soaked in HBSS for 30 minutes and then reimplanted. These teeth showed 50% less replacement resorption following reimplantation. It has also been shown that keeping the teeth cold while in the HBSS does not affect success.\n\nMany other types of storage liquids have been tested such as powdered milk, Enfamil, Gatorade, and contact lens solution. All of them have been shown to either be ineffective or damaging to avulsed tooth.\n\nThe long-term prognosis of replanted knocked out teeth is very variable. The treatment for knocked-out teeth has progressed from a success rate of 10% to over 90%. However, this success rate can only be achieved with the institution of optimum care within fifteen minutes to an hour of the accident. In the case of knocked-out teeth, being prepared and knowing what to do can mean the difference between a person retaining or losing replanted knocked-out teeth for life. Teeth that have been knocked out when they are fully matured, that is, when the root has completely formed, have a much better prognosis than those teeth that are immature and not fully formed. This is due to the fragility of the root. When teeth have not fully formed, the walls of the root are thinner and thus more fragile. Another complication for the prognosis is the length of time that the tooth has been out of its socket. Teeth that are replanted within fifteen minutes of the accident have an excellent prognosis. However, 3 year follow-up for delayed replantation (after 15 hours) of avulsed tooth has been reported. Teeth that have been extra-oral and dry stored for more than one hour have a poor prognosis. Teeth that have been placed in an optimal storage medium within one hour of the accident also have an excellent prognosis. All teeth that have been knocked out should be replanted but watched carefully for the development of root resorption. Teeth that do not have root canal treatment within two weeks of replantation also have a poor prognosis.\n\nResearch has shown that there are five million teeth knocked-out each year in the United States.\n\nUp to 25% of school-aged children and military trainees and fighters experience some kind of dental trauma each year. The incidence of dental avulsion in school aged children ranges from 0.5 to 16% of all dental trauma. Many of these teeth are knocked-out during school activities or sporting events such as contact sports, football, basketball, and hockey. It is important for anyone whom is related, working, or witnessing sports that they be educated on this subject matter. Being educated could aid in minimizing injuries that could do further harm to the victim. Being informed and spreading awareness of dental avulsion in the state of knowledge, treatment, and prevention could make an impact.\n\nThe first reported cases of knocked-out teeth being replanted was by Pare in 1593. In 1706, Pierre Fauchard also reported replanting knocked out teeth. Wigoper in 1933 used a cast gold splint to hold reimplanted teeth in place. In 1959, Lenstrup and Skieller declared that the success rate of replanted knocked out teeth should be considered a temporary procedure because the success rate of less than 10% was so poor. In 1966 in a retrospective study, Andresen theorized that 90% of avulsed teeth could be successfully retained if they were replanted within the first 30 minutes of the accident. In 1974, Cvek showed that removal of the dental pulp following reimplantation was necessary to prevent resorption of the tooth root. In 1974, Cvek showed that storage of knocked out teeth in saline could improve the success of replanted teeth. In 1977, Lindskog et al. showed that the key to retention of the knocked-out teeth was to maintain the vitality of the periodontal ligament. In 1980, Blomlof showed the storing the periodontal ligament cells in a biocompatible medium could extend the extra oral time to four hours or more. He found that the best storage medium was a medical research fluid called Hank’s Balanced Solution. In this study, it was serendipitously discovered that milk could also maintain cell viability for two hours. In 1981, Andreasen showed that crushing of cells on the tooth root could cause death of the cells and lead to resorption and reduction in prognosis. In 1983, Matsson et al. showed that soaking in Hank’s Balanced Solution for thirty minutes prior to reimplantation could revitalize extracted dog’s teeth that were dry for 60 minutes. In 1989, a systematic storage device was developed to optimally store and preserve knocked out teeth. In 1992, Trope et al. showed that extracted dog’s teeth could be stored in Hank’s Balanced Solution for up to 96 hours and still maintain significant vitality. In this study, milk was only able to maintain vitality for two hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "51696190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51696190", "title": "Distal hereditary motor neuropathy type V", "text": "Distal hereditary motor neuropathy type V\n\nDistal hereditary motor neuropathy type V (dHMN V) is a particular type of neuropathic disorder. In general, distal hereditary motor neuropathies affect the axons of distal motor neurons and are characterized by progressive weakness and atrophy of muscles of the extremities. It is common for them to be called \"spinal forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT)\", because the diseases are closely related in symptoms and genetic cause. The diagnostic difference in these diseases is the presence of sensory loss in the extremities. There are seven classifications of dHMNs, each defined by patterns of inheritance, age of onset, severity, and muscle groups involved. Type V (sometimes notated as Type 5) is a disorder characterized by autosomal dominance, weakness of the upper limbs that is progressive and symmetrical, and atrophy of the small muscles of the hands.\n\nOnset usually occurs within the first two decades of life, commonly in the teenage years or the twenties. Life expectancy is normal. High arch of the foot (pes cavus) is common. Patients also have trouble controlling their hands, due to muscle loss on the thumb side of the index finger and palm below the thumb. It is rare for a person with this disorder to lose the ability to walk, though changes in gait may occur later in life.\nFrequency of this disorder is unknown.\n\nIn an individual with dHMN V, electromyography will show pure motor neuropathy, patterns of weakness without upper motor neuron damage, in the hands. Tendon reflexes will also appear normal. Clinical, electrophysiological, and pathological testing will show a lack of damage to sensory neurons, differentiating this disease from CMT.\n\ndHMN V has a pattern of autosomal dominance, meaning that only one copy of the gene is needed for the development of the disease. However, there is incomplete penetrance of this disorder, meaning that some individuals with the disease-causing mutations will not display any symptoms. Mutations on chromosome 7 have been linked to this disease. It is allelic (i.e., caused by mutations on the same gene) with Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease and with Silver’s Syndrome, a disorder also characterized by small muscle atrophy in the hands.\nAnother rare form of dHMN V is associated with a splicing mutation in REEP-1, a gene often associated with hereditary spastic neuroplegia.\n\nPhysical therapy is the predominant treatment of symptoms. Orthopedic shoes and foot surgery can be used to manage foot problems.\n"}
{"id": "20533479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20533479", "title": "Epoxygenase", "text": "Epoxygenase\n\nEpoxygenases are a set of membrane-bound, heme-containing cytochrome P450 (CYP P450 or just CYP) enzymes that metabolize polyunsaturated fatty acids to epoxide products that have a range of biological activities. The most thoroughly studied substrate of the CYP epoxylgenases is arachidonic acid. This polyunsaturated fatty acid is metabolized by cyclooxygenases to various prostaglandin, thromboxane, and prostacyclin metabolites in what has been termed the first pathway of eicosanoid production; it is also metabolized by various lipoxygenases to hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids (e.g. 5-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, 12-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid, 15-hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid) and leukotrienes (e.g. leukotriene B4, leukotriene C4) in what has been termed the second pathway of eicosanoid production. The metabolism of arachidonic acid to epoxyeicosatrienoic acids by the CYP epoxygenases has been termed the third pathway of eicosanoid metabolism. Like the first two pathways of eicosanoid production, this third pathway acts as a signaling pathway wherein a set of enzymes (the epoxygenases) metabolize arachidonic acid to a set of products (the eicosatrienoic acid epoxides, abbreviated as EETs, which are classified as nonclassic eicosanoids) that act as secondary signals to work in activating their parent or nearby cells and thereby orchestrate functional responses. However, none of these three pathways is limited to metabolizing arachidonic acid to eicosanoids. Rather, they also metabolize other polyunsaturated fatty acids to products that are structurally analogous to the eicosanoids but often have different bioactivity profiles. This is particularly true for the CYP epoxygenases which in general act on a broader range of polyunsaturated fatty acids to form a broader range of metabolites than the first and second pathways of eicosanoid production. Furthermore, the latter pathways form metabolites many of which act on cells by binding with and thereby activating specific and well-characterized receptor proteins; no such receptors have been fully characterized for the epoxide metabolites. Finally, there are relatively few metabolite-forming lipoxygenases and cyclooxygenases in the first and second pathways and these oxygenase enzymes share similarity between humans and other mammalian animal models. The third pathway consists of a large number of metabolite-forming CYP epoxygenases and the human epoxygenases have important differences from those of animal models. Partly because of these differences, it has been difficult to define clear roles for the epoxygenase-epoxide pathways in human physiology and pathology.\n\nThe cytochrome P450 (CYP) superfamily of membrane-bound (typically endoplasmic reticulum-bound) enzymes contain a heme cofactor and therefore are hemoproteins. The superfamily comprises more than 11,000 genes categorized into 1,000 families that are distributed broadly throughout bacteria, archaea, fungi, plants, animals, and even viruses (see Cytochrome P450). The CYP enzymes metabolize an enormously large variety of small and large molecules including foreign chemical substances, i.e. xenobiotics and pharmaceuticals, as well as a diversity of endogenously formed substances such as various steroids, vitamin D, bilirubin, cholesterol, and fatty acids. Humans have 57 putatively active CYP genes and 58 CYP pseudogenes of which only a few are polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) epoxygenases, i.e. enzymes with the capacity to attach atomic oxygen (see Allotropes of oxygen#Atomic oxygen) to the carbon-carbon double bonds of long chain PUFA to form their corresponding epoxides. These CYP epoxygenases represent a family of enzymes that consists of several members of the CYP1 and CYP2 subfamilies. The metabolism of the straight chain 20-carbon polyunsaturated fatty eicosatetraenoic acid, arachidonic acid, by certain CYP epoxygenases is a good example of their action. Arachidonic acid has 4 cis-configured double bonds (see Cis–trans isomerism) located between carbons 5-6, 8-9, 11-12, and 14-15 Double bonds. (The cis configuration is termed \"Z\" in the IUPAC Chemical nomenclature used here.). It is therefore 5\"Z\",8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetraenoic acid. Certain CYP epoxygenases attack these double bounds to form their respective eicosatrienoic acid epoxide regioisomers (see Structural isomer, section on position isomerism [regioisomerism]). The products are therefore 5,6-EET (i.e. 5,6-epoxy-8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetrienoic acid), 8,9-EET (i.e. 5,6-epoxy-8\"Z\",11\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetrienoic acid), 11,12-EET (i.e. 11,12-epoxy-5\"Z\",8\"Z\",14\"Z\"-eicosatetrienoic acid), and/or 14,15-EET (i.e. 14,15-epoxy-5\"Z\",8\"Z\",11\"Z\"-eicosatetrainoic acid, the structure of which is illustrated in the attached figure). Note that the eicosatetraenoate substrate loses one double bound to become an eicosatrienoic acid with three double bonds and that the epoxygenases typically form a mixture of \"R\"/\"S\" enantiomers at the attacked double bound position. Thus, the CYP epoxygenases which attack arachidonic acid's double bound between carbon 14 and 15 form a mixture of 14\"R\",15\"S\"-ETE and 14\"S\",15\"R\"-ETE. However, each CYP epoxygenase often shows preferences in the position of the double bound on which they act, partial selectivity in the \"R\"/\"S\" enantiomer ratios that they make at each double bound position, and different double bond position preferences and \"R\"/\"S\" selectivity ratios with different PUFA substrates. Finally, the product epoxides are short-lived in cells, generally existing for only several seconds before being converted by a Soluble epoxide hydrolase (also termed epoxide hydrolase 2 or sEH) to their corresponding dihydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (diHETE) products, e.g. 14,15-HETE rapidly becomes a mixture of 14(\"S\"),15(\"R\")-diHETE and 14(\"R\"),15(\"S\")-diHETE. Although there are exceptions, the diHETE products are generally far less active than their epoxide precursors; the sEH pathway is therefore regarded as an inactivating pathway which functions to limit epoxide activity.\n\nThe catalytic activity of endoplasmic reticulum-bound cytochrome P450 enzymes, including the epoxygenases, depends upon Cytochrome P450 reductase (POR); it transfers electrons to, and thereby regenerates the activity of, the CYPs. The human gene that expresses POR is highly polymorphic (see Gene polymorphism); many of the polymorphic variant PORs cause significantly decreases or increases in the activity of the CYPs, including the epoxygenases.\n\nScores of drugs have been shown to either inhibit or induce one or more of the CYP epoxygenases;\n\nThe most studied substrate of the CYP epoxygenases is the omega-6 fatty acid, arachidonic acid. However, the CYP epoxygenases also metabolize other omega-6 fatty acids such as linoleic acid and the omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid. The distinction between the omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acid substrates is important because omega-3 fatty acids metabolites can have lesser or different activities than omega-6 fatty acid metabolites; furthermore, they compete with the omega-6 fatty acids for the CYP epoxygenases thereby reducing the production of omega-6 fatty acid metabolites. The human CYP P450 enzymes identified to have epoxygenase activity on one or more PUFA include CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, CYP2J2, CYP2S1, CYP3A4, CYP4F2, CYP4F3A, CYP4F3B, CYP4A11, CYP4F8, and CYP4F12. CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 form particularly large amounts of superoxide anion (chemical formula ) during their metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids; this reactive oxygen species is toxic to cells and may be responsible for some of the activities ascribed to the epoxides made by the two CYPs.\n\nIn humans, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C18, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, CYP2J2, and CYP2S1 isoforms metabolize arachidonic acid to Epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (i.e., EETs) as defined using recombinient CYPs in an \"In vitro\" microsome assay. CYP2C9, and CYP2J2 appear to be the main produces of the EETs in humans with CYPP2C9 being the main unsaturated fatty acid epoxide producer in vascular endothelial cells and CYP2J2 being highly expressed (although less catalytically active than CYP2C9) particularly in heart muscle but also in kidneys, pancreas, lung, and brain; CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP2J2 are also implicated in converting arachidonic acid to epoxides in humans. Most of these CYPs preferentially form 14,15-ETE, somewhat lower levels of 11,12-EET, and far lower, trace, or undetectable levels of 8,9-ETE and 4,5-ETE. There are exceptions to this rule with, for example, CYPE1 forming 14,15-EET almost exclusively, CYP2C19 forming 8,9-EET at slightly higher levels than 14,15-EET, and CYP3A4 forming 11,12-EET at slightly higher levels than 14,15-ETE. 14,15-EET and 11,12-EET are the major EETs produced by mammalian, including human, tissues. CYP2C9, CYP2JP, and possibly the more recently characterized CYP2S1 appear to be the main produces of the EETs in humans with CYPP2C9 being the main EET producer in vascular endothelial cells and CYP2JP being highly expressed (although less catalytically active than CYP2C) in heart muscle, kidneys, pancreas, lung, and brain. CYP2S1 is expressed in macrophages, liver, lung, intestine, and spleen and is abundant in human and mouse atherosclerosis (i.e. Atheroma) plaques as well as inflamed tonsils.\nCYP2S1 is expressed in macrophages, liver, lung, intestine, and spleen; is abundant in human and mouse atherosclerosis (i.e. Atheroma) plaques as well as inflamed tonsils; and, in addition to forming epoxides of arachidonic acid (and other polyunsaturated fatty acids), CYP2S1 metabolizes prostaglandin G2 and Prostaglandin H2 to 12-Hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid. Possibly because of metabolizing and thereby inactivating the prostaglandins and/or because forming the bioactive metabolite, 12-hyddroxyheptadecatrienoic acid, rather than EETs, CYP2S1 may act to inhibit the function of monocytes and thereby limit inflammation as well as other immune responses. The activities and clinical significance of the EETs are given on the epoxyeicosatrienoic acid page.\n\nCYP2C9 and CYP2S1 are known to, and many or all of the other CYPs that act on arachidonic acid are thought to, metabolize the 18 carbon essential fatty acid, 9(\"Z\"),12(\"Z\")-octadecadienoic acid, i.e. linoleic acid, at is 12,13 carbon-carbon double bout to form (+) and (-) epoxy optical isomers viz., the 9\"S\",10\"R\"-epoxy-12(\"Z\")-octadecaenoic and 9\"R\",10\"S\"-epoxy-12(\"Z\")-octadecaenoic acids; this set of optical isomers is also termed vernolic acid, linoleic acid 9:10-oxide, and leukotoxin. CYPC2C9 is known and the other arachidonic acid-metabolizing CYPs are thought to likewise attack linoleic acid at its 9,10 carbon-carbon double bound to form 12\"S\",13\"R\"-epoxy-9(\"Z\")-octadecaenoic and 12\"R\",13\"S\"-epoxy-9(\"Z\")-octadecaenoic acid optical isomers; this set of optical isomers is also termed coronaric acid, linoleic acid 12,13-oxide, and isoleukotoxin These linoleic acid-derived leukotoxin and isoleukotoxin sets of optical isomers possess activities similar to that of other leukotoxins such as the pore-forming leukotoxin family of RTX toxin virulence factor proteins secreted by gram-negative bacteria, e.g. Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans and E. coli. That is, they are toxic to leukocytes as well as many other cell types and when injected into rodents produce multiple organ failure and respiratory distress. These effects appear due to the conversion of leukotoxin to its dihydroxy counterparts, 9\"S\",10\"R\"- and 9\"R\",10\"S\"-dihydroxy-12(\"Z\")-octadecaenoic acids, and isoleukotoxin to its 12\"R\",13\"S\"- and 12\"S\",13\"R\"-dihydroxy-9(\"Z\")-octadecenoic acid counterparts by soluble epoxide hydrolase. Some studies suggest but have not proven that leukotoxin and isoleukotoxin, acting primarily if not exclusively through their respective dihydroxy counterparts, are responsible for or contribute to multiple organ failure, respiratory distress, and certain other cataclysmic diseases in humans.\n\nAdrenic acid or 7(\"Z\"),10(\"Z\"),13(\"Z\"),16(\"Z\")-docosatetraenoic acid, an abundant fatty acid in the adrenal gland, kidney, vasculature, and early human brain, is metabolized primarily to 7(\"Z\"),10(\"Z\"),13(\"Z\")-16,17-epoxy-docosatrienoic acid and smaller amounts of its 7,8-, 10,11-, and 13,14-epoxide-docosatrienoic acids by bovine coronary arteries and adrenal zona glomerulosa cells through the apparent action of an unidentified CYP epoxygnease(s); the eSH-dependent metabolism of these eoxide, 7,8-, 10,11-, and 13,14-dihydroxy-docosatrienoic acids relaxes pre-contracted coronary and adrenal gland arteries suggesting that the dihydroxy metabolites may act as vascular endothelium-derived Endothelium-derived relaxing factors.\n\n5(\"Z\"),8(\"Z\"),11(\"Z\"),14(\"Z\"),17(\"Z\")-eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is metabolized by the same CYP epoxygenases that metabolize arachidonic acid primarily to 17,18-epoxy-5(\"Z\"),8(\"Z\"),11(\"Z\"),14(\"Z\")-eicosatetranoic acid and usually far smaller or undetectable amounts of EPA's 5,6-, 8,9-, 11,12-, or 14,15-epoxides; however, CYP2C9 metabolizes EPA primarily to 14,15-epoxy-5(\"Z\"),8(\"Z\"),11(\"Z\"),17(\"Z\")-eicosatetranoic acid, CYP2C11 forms appreciable amounts of this 14,15-epoxide in addition to the 17,18-epoxide, and CYP2C18 forms appreciable amounts of the 11,12 epoxide (11,12-epoxy-5(\"Z\"),8(\"Z\"),14(\"Z\"),17(\"Z\")-eicosatetranoic acid) in addition to the 17,18-epoxide. Furthermore, CYP4A11, CYP4F8, and CYP4F12, which are CYP monooxygenase rather than CYP epoxygeanse in that they metablize arachidonic acid to monohydroxy eicosatetraenoic acid products (see 20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid), i.e. 19-hydroxy- and/or 18-hydroxy-eicosatetranoic acids, takes on epoxygease activity in converting EPA primarily to its 17,18-epoxy metabolite (see epoxyeicosatetraenoic acid).\n\n4(\"Z\"),7(\"Z\"),10(\"Z\"),13(\"Z\"),16(\"Z\"),19(\"Z\")-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is metabolized by the same CYP eoxygenases that metabolize arachidonic acid to form epoxide-containing docosapentaenoic acid products, particularly 19,20-epoxy-4(\"Z\"),7(\"Z\"),10(\"Z\"),13(\"Z\"),16(\"Z\")-docosapentenoic acid. These docosapentaenoic acid epoxides or Epoxydocosapentaenoic acids (EDPs) have a somewhat different set of activities than, and thereby may serve in part as counterpoises to, the EET's; EDPs may also be responsible for some the beneficial effects attributed to omega-6 fatty acid-rich foods such as fish oil (see Epoxydocosapentaenoic acid).\n\nThe 18 carbon essential fatty acid, 9 α-Linolenic acid or 9(\"Z\"),12(\"Z\"),15(\"Z\")-octadecatrienoic acid, is metabolized primarily to 9(\"Z\"),12(\"Z\")-15,16-epoxy-octadecadienoic acid but also to smaller amounts of its 8,10- and 12,13-epoxides in the serum, liver, lung, and spleen of mice treated with a drug that increases the expression of CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and/or CYP1B1. These epoxides are also found in the plasma of humans and their levels greatly increase in subjects given an α-linolenic acid-rich diet.\n\nHuman CYP epoxygenase genes come in many single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) variants some of which code for epoxygenase products with altered activity. Investigation into the impact of these variants on the bearers' health (i.e. phenotype) is an invaluable area of research which offers the opportunity to define the function of the epoxygenases and their polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolites in humans. However, SNP variants that cause altered polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism may also cause altered metabolism of their other substrates, i.e. diverse xenobiotic (e.g. NSAID) and endotiotic (e.g. the primary female sex hormone, estradiol) compounds: the latter effects may lead to clinical manifestations that overshadow any manifestations resulting from changes in polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism.\n\nThe most common SNP epoxygenase variants are as follows. 1) CYP2C8*3 (30411A>G, rs10509681, Lys399Arg) converts arachidonic acid to 11,12-EET and 14,15-EET with a turnover rate less than half that of wild type CYP2C8; in a single recent report, male but not female carriers of the CYP2C8*3 allele had an increased risk of essential hypertension. Bearers of this SNP may or may not show increased risk of developing acute gastrointestinal bleeding during the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are its substrates such as aceclofenac, celecoxib, diclofenac, ibuprofen, indomethacin, lornoxicam, meloxicam, naproxen, piroxicam, tenoxicam, and valdecoxib. 2) CYP2J2*7 (−76G>T, rs890293, upstream Promoter (genetics) site) has decreased binding of the Sp1 transcription factor resulting in its lowered expressionas and lowered levels of EETs in plasma. Carriers of this SNP among a Uyghur population in China had a higher risk of coronary artery disease. However, CYP2J2*7 carriers showed no association with hypertension, heart attack, or stroke in a study of 5,740 participants of the cardiovascular cohort of the Malmö Diet and Cancer study; since other studies have afforded contradictory results, this allele is currently regarded as not associated with cardiovascular diseases (see Epoxyeicosatrienoic acid#Clinical significance). Bearers of this SNP in a Chinese Population had a higher risk of younger onset of type 2 diabetes and among a Chinese Han population had a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease. 3) CYP2C8*2 (11054A>T, rs11572103, Ile269Phe) and CYP2C8*4 (11041C>, rs1058930, variants have reduced arachidonic acid-metabolizing activity but have not been clearly associated with cardiovascular or other diseases. 4) CYPC28*4 (3608C>T, rs1058930, Ile264Met) has reduced arachidonic acid metabolizing activity. It has not been associated with cardiovascular diseases but has a higher incidence in subjects with type II diabetes in a small sample of Caucasians in Germany. 5) The CYP2C9*2 (3608C>T, rs1799853, Arg144Cys) variant has a 50% reduction in polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolizing activity compared to CYP2C9 wild type ; carriers of it show no association with cardiovascular disease but exhibit poor metabolism of the anti-coagulating, \"blood-thining\" agent, warfarin. These carriers are susceptible to the gastrointestinal bleeding side effects of warfarin and the NSAID cited above. 6 ) CYP2C9*3 (42624A>C, rs1057910, Iso359Leu) encodes an expoxygenase with reduced arachidonic acid metabolizing activity. This allele has not been directly associated with cardiovascular diseases but may be associated with the poor metabolism and therefore adverse reactions to warfarin, NSAID, sulfonylurea-containing oral hypoglycemic agents, and the anti-(epilepsy) drug, phenytoin. 7) CYP2C19*2 (19154G>A, rs4244285, Il264Met) and CYP2C19*3 (17948G>A, rs4986893, His212X) are loss-of-function null alleles; carriers of the CYP2C19*3 but not the CYP2C19*2 allele showed a \"reduced\" risk of developing essential hypertension in a large Korean population study. Bearers of null alleles would be expected to be poor metabolizers of several drugs which are CYP2C19*2 or CYP2C19*3 substrates. This is particularly the case with Clopidogrel, a drug used to block platelet activation, blood clotting, and thereby heart attack, stroke, and peripheral artery occlusion in people at high risk of these events; CYP2C19 metabolizes clopidogrel to it active form. Consequently, patients with severe deficiencies in this CYP, i.e. bearers of CYP2C19*3 or CYP2C19*2 alleles, fail to gain protection from clopidogrel and have a higher risk of the cited cardiovascular events than clopidogrel-treated patients bearing wild type CYP2C19 alleles. 8) CYPC19*17 (-800C>T, rs12248560, site upstream gene promoter site) causes overproduction of its epoxygenase and thereby the ultra fast metabolism of arachidonic acid. Bearers of this allele have not been associated with cardiovascular diseases but clearly show a decreased risk of developing breast cancer and endometriosis possible because their rapid metabolism of estrogen leads to lower estrogen levels and thereby a lower risk of these estrogen-fueled diseases. These bearers also a higher rate of metabolism of, and therefore reduced responsiveness to, certain proton pump inhibitor and antidepressant drugs.\n\nAs indicated above, Cytochrome P450 reductase (POR) is responsible for regenerating the activity of CYPs including the epoxygenases. Several genetic variants of the human POR gene impact epoxygenase activity. For example, POR Missense mutations A287P and R457H lead to reductions in the activity of CYP2C19 and CYP2C9, respectively, whereas A503V and Q153R missense mutations lead to small increases in the activity of CYP2C9. While these and other POR genetic variants have not yet been associated with epoxygenase-related disease, they contribute to the marked variability in the activity of the epoxygenases between individuals.\n"}
{"id": "27364911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27364911", "title": "Exercise prescription software", "text": "Exercise prescription software\n\nExercise prescription software is a branch of computer software designed to aid in the construction of exercise programmes or regimes for patients who require some kind of ongoing rehabilitation.\n\nExercise prescription is common in physiotherapy practices where traditionally patients would be given a printed handout with diagrams and instructions describing any rehabilitation exercises. As high speed internet becomes prevalent in the home, and paperless offices are more desirable, prescribed exercises are often e-mailed to patients instead of given on handouts and diagrams replaced by instructional videos.\n\n"}
{"id": "1099280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099280", "title": "Eye examination", "text": "Eye examination\n\nAn eye examination is a series of tests performed by an ophthalmologist (medical doctor), optometrist, or orthoptist assessing vision and ability to focus on and discern objects, as well as other tests and examinations pertaining to the eyes.\nHealth care professionals often recommend that all people should have periodic and thorough eye examinations as part of routine primary care, especially since many eye diseases are asymptomatic.\n\nEye examinations may detect potentially treatable blinding eye diseases, ocular manifestations of systemic disease, or signs of tumours or other anomalies of the brain.\n\nIdeally, the eye examination consists of an external examination, followed by specific tests for visual acuity, pupil function, extraocular muscle motility, visual fields, intraocular pressure and ophthalmoscopy through a dilated pupil.\n\nA minimal eye examination consists of tests for visual acuity, pupil function, and extraocular muscle motility, as well as direct ophthalmoscopy through an undilated pupil.\n\nVisual acuity is the eye's ability to detect fine details and is the quantitative measure of the eye's ability to see an in-focus image at a certain distance.\nThe standard definition of normal visual acuity (20/20 or 6/6 vision) is the ability to resolve a spatial pattern separated by a visual angle of one minute of arc. The terms 20/20 and 6/6 are derived from standardized sized objects that can be seen by a \"person of normal vision\" at the specified distance. For example, if one can see at a distance of 20 ft an object that normally can be seen at 20 ft, then one has 20/20 vision. If one can see at 20 ft what a normal person can see at 40 ft, then one has 20/40 vision. Put another way, suppose you have trouble seeing objects at a distance and you can only see out to 20 ft what a person with normal vision can see out to 200 feet, then you have 20/200 vision. The 6/6 terminology is more commonly used in Europe and Australia, and represents the distance in metres.\n\nThis is often measured with a Snellen chart or with a logMAR base Velorum Visual Acuity System.\n\nIn physics, \"refraction\" is the mechanism that bends the path of light through the eye. In an eye exam, the term refraction is the determination of the ideal correction of refractive error. Refractive error is an optical abnormality in which the shape of the eye fails to bring light into sharp focus on the retina, resulting in blurred or distorted vision. Examples of refractive error are myopia, hyperopia, and astigmatism. A refraction procedure consists of two parts: objective and subjective.\n\nAn objective refraction is a refraction obtained without receiving any feedback from the patient, using a retinoscope or auto-refractor.\n\nTo perform a retinoscopy, the doctor projects a streak of light into a pupil. A series of lenses are flashed in front of the eye. By looking through the retinoscope, the doctor can study the light reflex of the pupil. Based on the movement and orientation of this retinal reflection, the refractive state of the eye is measured.\n\nAn auto-refractor is a computerized instrument that shines light into an eye. The light travels through the front of the eye, to the back and then forward through the front again. The information bounced back to the instrument gives an objective measurement of refractive error without asking the patients any questions.\n\nA subjective refraction requires responses from the patient. Typically, the patient will sit behind a phoropter or wear a trial frame and look at an eye chart. The eye care professional will change lenses and other settings while asking the patient for feedback on which set of lenses give the best vision.\n\nSometimes, eye care professionals prefer to obtain a cycloplegic refraction, especially when trying to obtain an accurate refraction in young children who may skew refraction measurements by adjusting their eyes with accommodation. Cycloplegic eye drops are applied to the eye to temporarily paralyze the ciliary muscle of the eye.\n\nAn examination of pupilary function includes inspecting the pupils for equal size (1 mm or less of difference may be normal), regular shape, reactivity to light, and direct and consensual accommodation.\nThese steps can be easily remembered with the mnemonic \"PERRLA (D+C)\": Pupils Equal and Round; Reactive to Light and Accommodation (Direct and Consensual).\n\nA swinging-flashlight test may also be desirable if neurologic damage is suspected.\nThe swinging-flashlight test is the most useful clinical test available to a general physician for the assessment of optic nerve anomalies.\nThis test detects the afferent pupil defect, also referred to as the Marcus Gunn pupil. It is conducted in a semidarkened room.\nIn a normal reaction to the swinging-flashlight test, both pupils constrict when one is exposed to light.\nAs the light is being moved from one eye to another, both eyes begin to dilate, but constrict again when light has reached the other eye.\n\nIf there is an efferent defect in the left eye, the left pupil will remain dilated regardless of where the light is shining, while the right pupil will respond normally.\nIf there is an afferent defect in the left eye, both pupils will dilate when the light is shining on the left eye, but both will constrict when it is shining on the right eye. This is because the left eye will not respond to external stimulus (afferent pathway), but can still receive neural signals from the brain (efferent pathway) to constrict.\n\nIf there is a unilateral small pupil with normal reactivity to light, it is unlikely that a neuropathy is present.\nHowever, if accompanied by ptosis of the upper eyelid, this may indicate Horner's syndrome.\n\nIf there is a small, irregular pupil that constricts poorly to light, but normally to accommodation, this is an Argyll Robertson pupil.\n\nOcular motility should always be tested, especially when patients complain of double vision or physicians suspect neurologic disease.\nFirst, the doctor should visually assess the eyes for deviations that could result from strabismus, extraocular muscle dysfunction, or palsy of the cranial nerves innervating the extraocular muscles.\nSaccades are assessed by having the patient move his or her eye quickly to a target at the far right, left, top and bottom. This tests for saccadic dysfunction whereupon poor ability of the eyes to \"jump\" from one place to another may impinge on reading ability and other skills, whereby the eyes are required to fixate and follow a desired object.\n\nThe patient is asked to follow a target with both eyes as it is moved in each of the nine cardinal directions of gaze. The examiner notes the speed, smoothness, range and symmetry of movements and observes for unsteadiness of fixation. These nine fields of gaze test the extraocular muscles: inferior, superior, lateral and medial rectus muscles, as well as the superior and inferior oblique muscles.\n\nTesting the visual fields consists of confrontation field testing in which each eye is tested separately to assess the extent of the peripheral field.\n\nTo perform the test, the individual occludes one eye while fixated on the examiner's eye with the non-occluded eye.\nThe patient is then asked to count the number of fingers that are briefly flashed in each of the four quadrants.\nThis method is preferred to the \"wiggly finger test\" that was historically used because it represents a rapid and efficient way of answering the same question: is the peripheral visual field affected?\n\nCommon problems of the visual field include scotoma (area of reduced vision), hemianopia (half of visual field lost), homonymous hemianopsia and bitemporal hemianopia.\n\nExternal examination of eyes consists of inspection of the eyelids, surrounding tissues and palpebral fissure.\nPalpation of the orbital rim may also be desirable, depending on the presenting signs and symptoms.\nThe conjunctiva and sclera can be inspected by having the individual look up, and shining a light while retracting the upper or lower eyelid. The position of the eyelids are checked for abnormalities such as ptosis which is an asymmetry between eyelid positions.\n\nClose inspection of the anterior eye structures and ocular adnexa are often done with a slit lamp which is a table mounted microscope with a special adjustable illumination source attached. A small beam of light that can be varied in width, height, incident angle, orientation and colour, is passed over the eye. Often, this light beam is narrowed into a vertical \"slit\", during slit-lamp examination. The examiner views the illuminated ocular structures, through an optical system that magnifies the image of the eye and the patient is seated while being examined, and the head stabilized by an adjustable chin rest.\n\nThis allows inspection of all the ocular media, from cornea to vitreous, plus magnified view of eyelids, and other external ocular related structures. Fluorescein staining before slit lamp examination may reveal corneal abrasions or herpes simplex infection.\n\nThe binocular slit-lamp examination provides stereoscopic magnified view of the eye structures in striking detail, enabling exact anatomical diagnoses to be made for a variety of eye conditions.\n\nAlso ophthalmoscopy and gonioscopy examinations can also be performed through the slit lamp when combined with special lenses. These lenses include the Goldmann 3-mirror lens, gonioscopy single-mirror/ Zeiss 4-mirror lens for (ocular) anterior chamber angle structures and +90D lens, +78D lens, +66D lens & Hruby (-56D) lens, the examination of retinal structures is accomplished.\n\nIntraocular pressure (IOP) can be measured by Tonometry devices. The eye can be thought of as an enclosed compartment through which there is a constant circulation of fluid that maintains its shape and internal pressure. Tonometry is a method of measuring this pressure using various instruments. The normal range is 10-21 mmHg.\n\nExamination of retina (fundus examination) is an important part of the general eye examination. Dilating the pupil using special eye drops greatly enhances the view and permits an extensive examination of peripheral retina. A limited view can be obtained through an undilated pupil, in which case best results are obtained with the room darkened and the patient looking towards the far corner. The appearance of the optic disc and retinal vasculature are also recorded during fundus examination.\n\nA red reflex can be seen when looking at a patient's pupil through a direct ophthalmoscope. This part of the examination is done from a distance of about 50 cm and is usually symmetrical between the two eyes. An opacity may indicate a cataract.\n\nChildren should have their first eye exam at 6 months old. If a parent suspects something is wrong an ophthalmologist can check even earlier.\n\nEarly eye exams are important because children need the following basic visual skills for learning:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "604034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604034", "title": "Gauche caviar", "text": "Gauche caviar\n\nGauche caviar (\"Caviar left\") is a pejorative French term to describe someone who claims to be a socialist while living in a way that contradicts socialist values. The expression is a political neologism dating from the 1980s and implies a degree of hypocrisy. The dictionary \"Petit Larousse\" defines \"left caviar\" as a pejorative expression for a \"Progressivism combined with a taste for society life and its accoutrements\". One description referred to it as \"the free-thinking, authority-hating, individualistic, tolerant, socialist position... which shaded into a bohemian, existential, communitarian, fairly depressed\" worldview espoused by people with money and good clothes.\n\nThe concept is broadly similar to the English \"Champagne socialist\", the American \"Limousine liberal\" or \"latte liberal\", the German \"Salonkommunist\", the Italian \"Radical chic\", the Brazilian Portuguese \"esquerda caviar\", the Chilean Spanish \"red set\", and the Danish \"Kystbanesocialist\", referring to well-off coastal neighborhoods north of Copenhagen. Other similar terms in English include \"Hampstead liberal, liberal elite, chardonnay socialist\" and \"Bollinger Bolshevik\".\n\nThe term was once prevalent in Parisian circles, applied deprecatingly to those who professed allegiance to the Socialist Party, but who maintained a far from proletarian lifestyle that distinguished them from the working-class base of the French Socialist Party. A more explicit reference identified this group as left-wingers who speak great passion about the plight of the poor while eating caviar in their spectacular Parisian duplex apartment.\n\nThe label was also employed by detractors to describe François Mitterrand. This was further reinforced by the fact that several members of his administration were identified as part of the gauche caviar such as Jack Lang, who was the culture minister.\n\nIn early 2007, Ségolène Royal was identified with the \"gauche caviar\" when it was revealed that she had been avoiding paying taxes. The description damaged her campaign for the French presidency. Similarly French politician Bernard Kouchner and his wife Christine Ockrent have been labelled with the term. However, his appointment as Minister of Foreign Affairs was not hampered by the label. Other supposed members of this \"gauche caviar\" include Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former IMF managing director, and his wife, the journalist Anne Sinclair, heiress to much of the fortune of her maternal grandfather, the art dealer Paul Rosenberg. It is said that around 2015, the \"gauche caviar\" supported also the Greek government of SYRIZA and PM Tsipras, \"desperate for a new 'anti-imperialist hero' after Hugo Chavez's death\".\n\nSimilarly, Emmanuel Macron has been accused by opposants to be the archetype of the label, claiming a socialist background all while making right wing policies. Since the beginning of his term, these accusations have participated largely in a growth in his unpopularity. \n\nThe weekly news magazine, \"Le Nouvel Observateur\", has been described as the \"quasi-official organ of France's 'gauche caviar'\".\n\nRegardless of whether \"gauche caviar\" is accepted by those given such label, politicians who fit this classification wield power in the French polity. For instance, during the administration of Mitterrand, a number of policies were adopted to avoid offending this group, which included the \"Gais pour la liberte\" (Gays for freedom).\n\n"}
{"id": "41968699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41968699", "title": "Handwashing in Judaism", "text": "Handwashing in Judaism\n\nJewish law today prescribes several kinds of hand washing (, ):\n\n\nIn two of these hand washings, water is poured out over one's hands with the aid of a vessel, \"viz\"., 1) whenever one wakes from his sleep, and 2) before eating bread. These hand washings are nearly always accompanied with a special blessing prior to concluding the actual act of washing (see \"infra\"). Although the minimal quantity of water needed to fulfill one's religious duty is 1/4 of a \"log\" (a liquid measure of capacity equal to the bulk or volume of one and half medium-sized eggs), and must be sufficient to cover at least the middle joints of one's fingers, water poured out in excess of this amount is considered praiseworthy in Jewish law. The hand washing made when one leaves the lavatory or latrine, or when one touches his privy parts, or sweat, may be done simply with running tap water (faucet).\n\nThe most developed and, perhaps, important of these washings is the washing of hands before eating bread. Such washing of hands is called in Hebrew, \"netilat yadayim\", meaning \"the lifting up of the hands.\" It is looked upon with such rigidity, that those who willfully neglect its practice are said to make themselves liable to excommunication, and bring upon themselves a state of scarcity, and are quickly taken out of the world.\n\nTen brazen lavers are said to have served the priests in the Temple of Solomon in Jerusalem, their function being merely for cleansing the hands and feet before they commenced their service. A teaching preserved in the compendium of Jewish oral law, the Mishnah, informs its reader that any priest who relieved himself by urinating required the washing of the hands and feet. The use of these lavers did not pertain to the general public, nor to their eating foods with washed hands.\n\nThe Mishnah (Tractate \"Yadayim\") is the first to describe the ritual of hand washing outside of the Temple.\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud explains that King Solomon enacted hand washing as a safeguard, before one eats of any of the animal sacrifices in the Temple. This enactment was restricted only to washing of hands immediately prior to eating those meat offerings of sacrificial animals (hallowed things) offered in the Temple.\n\nIn subsequent years, Hillel and Shammai followed in the footsteps of King Solomon and, in the year \"circa\" 32 BCE, these two sages made a decree concerning the priests of Aaron's lineage, \"viz\"., that their hands suffer a mandatory state of uncleanness which would disqualify their eating foods separated unto them as an offering (Heb. \"terumah\") until those very same hands were first washed. The Talmud Yerushalmi says they had actually renewed what was formerly practised since the time of Moses, but which had been forgotten by the people. That is to say, they made it a renewed enactment that the priests (i.e. all descendants of Aaron, the first High Priest of God) should be required henceforth, by an edict, to wash their hands before touching bread or other foods which were given unto them as a \"heave-offering\" (\"terumah\"). This enactment was made in order to instruct priests (Heb. \"Cohenim\") about the necessity of washing their hands after immersing their bodies in a ritual bath or ablution, since the Law of Moses enjoins the priests to eat their consecrated foods in a state of ritual purity. Bodily purity can only be attained by, both, immersing themselves in a ritual bath (Heb. \"mikveh\") as well as by washing their hands before consuming of such foods. According to the Talmud, the Sages of Israel have based this teaching upon a verse in Leviticus 15:11: \"And anyone who is touched by a man suffering from a running issue (Heb. \"zav\"), while he (the man suffering from the running issue) \"has not rinsed his hands in water\", […shall be unclean].\" The same verse is explained by Rava: \"What is the meaning of that which is written, 'while he \"has not rinsed his hands in water\"?' Behold! Had he rinsed [his hands], would he be ritually clean?! Behold! He [still] requires an immersion [in a ritual bath]!! Rather, this is its meaning. After [he had immersed himself], so long as he has not yet rinsed [his hands], he is [still] unclean!\"\n\nThe Jewish priests of Aaron's lineage (Heb. \"Cohanim\") during the days of Hillel and Shammai were delinquent about washing their hands after coming up from a ritual bath or ablution, and therefore, their bodies were still considered defiled. They would then go off and eat their bread-offerings (Heb. \"terumah\") while thinking they were ritually clean, when in actuality they were not. Therefore, it became an edict that all priests, before touching any bread-offering, must first wash their hands. This was done so as to instruct them in the proper laws of ritual cleanness. The \"Torah\" (Law of Moses) prescribes the penalty of death for priests who eat their bread-offering in a state of uncleanness. Therefore, the enactment renewed by Hillel and Shammai was to prevent their inadvertently being made liable to death by a likely defilement which clings to their hands, and that same defilement being conveyed to foods eaten by them.\n\nIt is unclear what sort of regulations were already in place during the late Second Temple period. A reference to hand washing is made in the Christian New Testament, \nwhen Jesus was asked by the Pharisees why his disciples do not wash their hands prior to their eating bread. Any man who proclaimed to have been Israel's Messiah would have been expected to follow the strictest laws of the Jewish nation, one of which was to eat his common food in a state of ritual purity, and to associate himself with only those who did likewise. Conversely, since there were two Pharisaic schools of thought prevalent in Judaea at that time, the School of Shammai and the School of Hillel, while the followers of Shammai were generally seen as the more stringent in their practices, it can be assumed that they had made additional regulations related to hand washing before touching unconsecrated bread, because of a suspected uncleanness clinging to those hands and the likelihood of such bread being prepared alongside consecrated foods which require ritual purity. Moreover, it may have only been a stringent practice observed by the more zealous at the time, or else the very necessity of having to wash hands for common bread was a matter held in dispute by the Sages of Israel. \n\nOthers have explained hand washing as being merely for the sake of bodily cleanliness which, in turn, leads to ritual purity. Rabbi Hiyya the Great had commanded Rav (Abba Aricha) by saying: \"If you are able to eat all throughout the year non-consecrated foods in a state of ritual purity, then eat! But if not, at least eat seven days out of the year [in such a state of ritual purity].\" On account of these words, Rabbi Pinchas ben Yair would say: \"...Bodily cleanliness leads to ritual purity.\"\n\nIn subsequent years, according to the Babylonian Talmud, additional measures were necessary in order to ensure that all priests would comply by the old enactment made by Hillel and Shammai (i.e. to wash their hands prior to touching bread-offerings, and to burn all bread-offerings touched by unwashed hands) – for many of the priests simply did not adhere to the enactment made by Hillel and Shammai. During the latter part of the 1st century CE, when disputes grew between the schools of Shammai and Hillel, the disciples of both schools gathered themselves together in the upper storeyed room of Hananiah's house (i.e. Hananiah, the son of Hizkiah, the son of Guron, and party – a man contemporary with Rabbi Yehoshua ben Hananiah who survived the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE), and voted upon measures to ensure that the priests throughout Israel would adhere to that old enactment, seeing that many priests would continue to eat their bread-offering (Heb. \"terumah\") without washing their hands. Wherefore, in order to ensure that all priests (Heb. \"Cohanim\") will comply and wash their hands, the Rabbis and scholars who were gathered together in that upper-storeyed room (on the day when they made eighteen new enactments) cleverly devised a method, whereby, they would adhere to the practice. They enacted a law and ordinance for all times, that all Jews — regardless of whether or not they were of the sacerdotal family (priests of Aaron's lineage), or Levites, or Israelites, or proselytes — be required to wash their hands before eating bread, even if that bread to be eaten was only ordinary and common bread. According to the Babylonian Talmud, the underlying motive for this new enactment was because hands were considered \"fidgety,\" and apt to touch things. \"Hence, unless their owner has taken care that they should not touch a ritually unclean object after he washed them, they are treated as unclean.\" The same Rabbis and scholars also ascribed a mandatory grade of uncleanness to all men's hands, capableof rendering the \"heave-offering\" (\"terumah\") invalid for consumption. Whence it is, today, Jews have this rule of practice amongst them. By virtue of the fact that all Jewish men and women are required to wash their hands directly before eating bread, so too, the delinquent priests will now follow suit and wash their hands before eating bread-offerings, and be guarded thereby from culpability resulting from his or their defilement. The Talmud Yerushalmi, speaking more candidly about this subject, says explicitly: \"Did they not decree [defilement] over the hands in order that he (i.e. the priest) might separate himself from the \"terumah\"? By saying to a man that his hands suffer a second-grade uncleanness, even so does he (the priest) separate himself from the \"terumah\".\" Unwashed hands which suffer a second-grade uncleanness were capable of rendering invalid the bread-offering given to the priests. The Sages of Israel have coined a name for this hand washing which is customarily made by all religious Jews today before eating bread at a table. It is called in the Hebrew language, \"serakh terumah\" (), meaning, \"washing introduced for the sake of uniformity with \"terumah\".\"\n\nThe one exception to this rule is when a man or a party of men are encamped while on a journey, and there is no water to be found in the vicinity of their camp, in which case the Sages of Israel have exempted them from washing their hands prior to breaking bread.\n\nThe Pentateuch alludes to different grades of uncleanness, or defilement, to persons who come in contact with certain impurities (e.g. one of the eight dead vermin mentioned in Leviticus 11:29-30; seminal discharge; blood of menstruate women; carrion &c.). The Sages of Israel have described the aforementioned sources of uncleanness as “fathers of uncleanness,” capable of conveying a first-grade uncleanness to people, or to vessels, or to foods and liquids that touch them or that carry them. They, in turn, convey uncleanness at a further remove to foods or to clothing touched by them. In the case of foods and clothing, they become second-grade uncleanness. By a rabbinic decree, all hands automatically suffer a second-grade uncleanness until washed. Likewise, hands that were not kept in readiness after washing and which touched a first-grade uncleanness, those hands alone become defiled unto the \"pereq\" (wrist), while the rest of his body remains ritually clean. All that is needed, therefore, is for him to wash his hands in water, and he removes thereby all uncleanness.\nA blessing is prescribed over hand washing before eating bread and when one wakes up from his sleep in the morning. Although Maimonides prescribes saying the blessing \"before\" one actually pours water over his hands, the custom has developed to recite the blessing only after he has poured water over his hands and has rubbed them together, while they are raised in the air to the height of his chin, prior to his drying them with a towel. The blessing is cited in the following manner: \"Blessed are you, O Lord, our God, King of the Universe, who has sanctified us through your commandments and has commanded us concerning the washing of hands\" (). Immediately following the recital of the blessing, it is incumbent to dry those hands with a towel &c.\n\nOther methods have developed concerning over which hand one is to begin when pouring water over them. The general custom in the morning (based on a kabbalistic teaching) is to take-up the vessel in one's right hand, pass the vessel into his left hand, and only then begin to pour out water from that vessel over his right hand. Then he reverses the order by taking-up the vessel in his right hand and pouring out water from that vessel over his left hand. This process is repeated altogether three times for each hand, with intermittent changing of hands after each pouring. When this is accomplished, he then takes the vessel and pours out water over both hands, simultaneously, after which he rubs his hands together and then lifts them to make the blessing over his hands, before he wipes them dry.\n\nIn the hand washing made for eating bread, the custom differs insofar that one takes-up the vessel in his right hand and begins by pouring out water in abundance over his left hand. He then takes-up the vessel in his left hand and pours out water in abundance over his right hand. In this case (for eating bread), it is not necessary to wash the hands three times, intermittently, as is customarily done in the morning. Rather, one or two pours for each hand are sufficient.\n\nThe rabbinic ordinance of washing hands prior to eating bread requires of people travelling the roads to go as far as 4 biblical miles if there is a known water source that can be used for washing. This applies only to when the water source lies in one's general direction of travel. However, had he already passed the water source, he is not obligated to backtrack unless the distance is within 1 biblical mile.\n\n"}
{"id": "6364489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6364489", "title": "Hassall–Henle bodies", "text": "Hassall–Henle bodies\n\nHassall–Henle bodies are small transparent growths on the posterior surface of Descemet's membrane at the periphery of the cornea. These bodies contain collagenous matter in which numerous cracks and fissures are filled with extrusions of the corneal endothelium. The condition is usually associated with the aging process.\n\nHassall–Henle bodies are named after British physician Arthur Hill Hassall (1817–1894) and German anatomist Friedrich Gustav Jakob Henle (1809–1885). They are sometimes referred to as Hassall–Henle warts or Henle's warts.\n"}
{"id": "2909374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2909374", "title": "Health issues in American football", "text": "Health issues in American football\n\nHealth issues in American football comprise a large number of health risks associated with participating in the sport. Injuries are relatively common in American football, due to its nature as a full-contact game. Injuries occur during both practice and games. Several factors can affect the frequency of injuries: epidemiological studies have shown older players can be at a greater risk, while equipment and experienced coaches can reduce the risk of injury. Common injuries include strains, sprains, fractures, dislocations, and concussions. Concussions have become a concern, as they increase the risk of mental illnesses like dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). In individual leagues like the National Football League (NFL) and National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), a public injury report is published containing all injured players on a team, their injury and the game-day status of each player.\n\nCatastrophic injuries—defined as serious injury to the spine, spinal cord, or brain—and fatalities are uncommon in football; both have become less common since the 1970s, although a small number of them still occur each year. Both concussions and catastrophic injuries can be caused by helmet-to-helmet collisions as well as impact against the ground or other players' knees; in other cases, they can be caused by players who have sustained a head injury returning to play, which can place the player at risk of sustaining a severe injury. Despite the decrease in catastrophic injuries, a greater number of NFL players have reported major injuries and shortened careers since the 1970s, in part due to the increasing size and speed of players and the use of artificial turf.\n\nIn many cases, injuries sustained while playing can cause long-term damage. In addition to neurological damage caused by hits to the head, injuries to the mid and lower body can force players to retire or lead to nagging ailments in later life. Various methods have been used to reduce injuries in football, including rule changes such as the abolition of large wedge formations; a sharp decline in cervical spine injuries since the 1970s has been attributed to rule changes that altered blocking and tackling techniques. More recently, rule changes to protect players from head injuries have been instituted. Equipment like the football helmet and pads are used to give players a level of protection from injuries, while other factors such as cleat size are used to minimize the risk of injuries due to field condition.\n\nBecause American football is a full-contact sport, head injuries are relatively common. According to the San Francisco Spine Institute at Seton Medical Center in Daly City, California, up to 1.5 million young men participate in football annually, and there are an estimated 1.2 million football-related injuries per year. An estimated 51% of injuries occur during training sessions, while 49% occur elsewhere. Injuries are nearly 5 times more likely to happen during contact training sessions than in controlled, non-contact sessions. Older players are at the most risk for injuries, while teams with experienced coaches and more assistant coaches are less likely to experience injuries. Fifty percent of injuries occur in the lower extremities (with knee injuries alone counting for roughly 36% of all injuries) and 30% occur in the upper extremities.\n\nThe most common types of injuries are strains, sprains, bruises, fractures, dislocations, and concussions. According to the NFL Physicians Society, the most common injuries in football are \"concussions, blunt injuries to the chest such as cardiac contusions, pulmonary contusions, broken ribs, abdominal injuries, splenic lacerations and kidney injuries.\" Orthopedic injuries to the knee, foot, ankle, shoulder, neck and back are also common, as are muscle strains to the hamstrings, quads, calves and the abdomen.\n\nConcussions are particularly concerning, as repeated concussions may increase a person's risk in later life for chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) and mental health issues such as dementia, Parkinson's disease, and depression. Concussions are often caused by helmet-to-helmet collisions, impact against the ground or other players' knees, and upper-body contact between opposing players. However, helmets have prevented more serious injuries such as skull fractures. Cervical spine injuries can be catastrophic, but have sharply declined since the mid-1970s due to rule changes and improved workout regimes, equipment, and coaching.\n\nPerformance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) are an issue in both high-school and professional-level football. Steroid use has been linked to an increased risk for musculoskeletal injuries among players. Human growth hormone (HGH) is used by some players to improve performance, recover from injuries, decrease aging, and to lose weight. Although none of these uses are scientifically proven or legal, HGH places users at risk for adverse side effects such as onset of diabetes and negatively impacting joints and organs such as the heart. However, there have been no studies of HGH use or the baseline levels of the hormone in NFL athletes. NFL players are routinely subject to drug tests in accordance with the NFL's two substance policies. Players found using performance-enhancing drugs, including anabolic steroids, can face suspension and other penalties. As of 2014, the league does not test for HGH use among players.\n\nAn injury report section is common in the sports sections of American newspapers, detailing injuries for each team and the amount of time each injured player is expected to be out. The injury report was created to prevent gamblers from gaining inside information about injuries from players, and as a result, NFL teams must report on the status of injured players on a set schedule during the season. The standard severity descriptions are \"out\" (will not play in the upcoming game); \"doubtful\" (25% chance of playing); \"questionable\" (50% chance of playing); or \"probable\" (75% chance of playing). Teams have been known to downplay, exaggerate or overly detail their teams' injuries in an attempt to confuse or mislead upcoming opponents. Injured players may be placed on one of several injured lists, including the Physically Unable to Perform (PUP) list. If a player is injured in an event outside of a game or team practice, or during collegiate practice prior to being drafted, he is eligible for the Nonfootball Injury list. Players who have sustained major injuries and are not expected to play for the rest of the season may be placed on the Injured Reserve (IR) list. These players do not count towards the teams' roster limit.\n\nAccording to the College Football Assistance Fund, over 20,000 injuries occur from college football each year. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) maintains an injury list similar to that used by the NFL – injured players are listed as \"Out\", \"Doubtful\", \"Questionable\", or \"Probable\", but suspended players are also included on the list. College players are limited to four years of eligibility, but can receive a medical redshirt that lets them play another year if they have suffered a season-ending injury and have not played in more than 30% of the season's games.\n\nIn 1994, the NFL established the Mild Traumatic Brain Injury Committee (MTBI), which was later replaced by the Head, Neck and Spine Committee, to study concussions and brain injuries in professional football players. The committee and its leadership, including Ira Casson and Elliot Pellman, were criticized by former players for stating that there is not enough research to determine if concussions lead to permanent brain injury. Pellman, who served as chairman of the committee from 1994 to 2007, received a large amount of criticism because he did not have a background in neurology and the research he published on brain injuries disagreed with the findings of independent scientists. In 2009, a NFL-commissioned report showed increased incidence of diagnosis of memory loss and dementia among retired professional football players when compared to the general population. The study also indicated that these symptoms were related to the effects of concussions. However, the NFL and the report's own researchers questioned the reliability of some of the data-gathering methods employed by the study, including the fact that the study was conducted by phone. The same year, the committee acknowledged for the first time that concussions can lead to long-term brain injuries. A Congressional hearing in October 2009, as well as pressure from the National Football League Players Association (NFLPA), led to an overhaul of the concussion policy in November and December of that year.\n\nNFL commissioner Roger Goodell addressed the issue of head injuries in professional football during a talk held on November 15, 2012 at the Harvard School of Public Health. In the talk, he highlighted the NFL's efforts to reduce head injuries by enacting measures such as penalizing hits to the head, better assessing concussions on the sideline, and removing players from the game after they have been diagnosed or suspected of having sustained a concussion. He also discussed the need for increased research on brain injuries and long-term disorders, and called for a culture change in the league, saying that players need to be more willing to acknowledge their injuries to medical staff. In September 2012 the league pledged a $30 million donation to the National Institutes of Health to research the connection between brain injuries and long-term mental health issues. Beginning in 2012 the NFL was the subject of several lawsuits initiated by former players who alleged that the league withheld information and misled players about the potential long-term impacts of head injuries. Six of the lawsuits were approved to be tried together. In August 2013 the NFL reached a settlement with more than 4,500 former players, agreeing to pay $765 million to be used to pay for medical examinations for former NFL players and for research and education purposes. Additionally, the funds will also be used to compensate former players who are determined to have significant cognitive impairment.\n\nConcussions are also an issue outside of professional football. In a 2010 study by Purdue University and Indiana University, an estimated 43,000 to 67,000 football players suffer a concussion every season. However, because many injuries go unreported, the true number may exceed 100,000. The study, \"Detected Cognitive Impairment in High School Football Players Without Clinically Diagnosed Concussion\", was published in 2013 in the \"Journal of Neurotrauma\" and observed 21 high school players throughout a season; it determined that even players who would not be diagnosed with a concussion based on their symptoms can display notable impairments via MRIs and verbal or cognitive testing, indicating that the current tests used on the sideline to assess concussions may not be adequate. A 2013 study by the National Academy of Sciences found that concussion rates in college football exceed those in any other sport, and that high school players have twice the risk of sustaining a concussion as collegiate players. The study found that, as reported by athletic trainers, college football players sustain 6.3 concussions for every 10,000 athletic exposures (meaning an individual practice or game), and the rate for high school football players is 11.2. The high school concussion figure is nearly double that of the next-highest sport, lacrosse. The study, funded by a $75,000 donation from the NFL to the Centers for Disease Control Foundation, also found that there is no evidence that newer helmet technology decreases the risk for concussions.\n\nCatastrophic injuries are not common in American football. According to the National Center for Catastrophic Sport Injury Research, there were 468 non-fatal injuries resulting in permanent neurological damage across all high school sports in the United States from 1982 to 2011. In football, catastrophic injuries are rare but are devastating when they occur. The rate of catastrophic head injuries has remained low since the introduction of the modern football helmet in the 1970s, but rates of injury are much higher at the high school level than the college level. A 2007 study found that, in high school and college football, there are an average of 7.23 catastrophic head injuries per year: there were 0.67 injuries per 100,000 high school players and 0.21 injuries per 100,000 college players. Over a 13-year period from September 1989 to June 2002, there were 94 players who sustained catastrophic head injuries—8 of these players died as a result of the injury, 46 sustained permanent neurological damage, and 36 made a full recovery. Fifty-Six percent of these players had a history of head injuries, 71% of them occurring in the same season as their catastrophic injury, and most of the catastrophic injuries resulted from being tackled or making a tackle. The study recommended that players exhibiting neurological symptoms should be strongly discouraged from returning to play.\n\nThe medical costs for catastrophic injuries can be extremely high—a 2011 estimate from the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center notes that first-year costs of someone who has high tetraplegia, an injury that causes partial or full loss of use in all limbs, is USD $1,044,097, with subsequent years costing $181,328. Many high schools across the United States require students to have an insurance policy, while others offer supplementary insurance to help offset the cost; some schools also request that boosters help families pay for these policies.\n\nCatastrophic injuries have been on a steady decline since the 1960s, due in part to rules banning dangerous forms of contact such as spearing, face tackling and butt blocking. However, catastrophic injuries are still caused by helmet-to-helmet collisions, as well when players hit their heads against an opposing player's knee or the ground. Returning to play after sustaining a head injury earlier in the game also places players at risk for an even more severe injury. Many states are requiring teams to prevent players who have shown any signs of a concussion from returning to a game, while other steps such as more aggressive enforcement of safety rules and better condition of the neck muscles have been suggested. Additionally, coaches are being urged to train players to block with their shoulders instead of their heads.\n\nFatalities in football are rare. A 2013 study of high school and college football players split fatalities into two types: direct fatalities, defined as those caused by \"trauma from participation in a sport resulting in a brain injury, cervical fracture, or intra-abdominal injury\" and indirect fatalities, defined as those resulting from external factors such as \"cardiac failure, heat illness, sickle cell trait [SCT], asthma, or pulmonary embolism\". The study found that, on average, there are 4 direct fatalities and 8.2 indirect fatalities among high school and college players per year, making indirect fatalities more than twice as common as direct fatalities.\n\nIn addition to immediate health effects, some injuries sustained during a player's career can have effects that extend to their post-career life. A cohort mortality study by researchers at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) examined 3,349 NFL players who played at least five full seasons from 1959 to 1988. The findings from this study suggest that, in comparison to the typical American male, NFL players live longer on average but have around three times the risk of death associated with neurodegenerative disorders. In particular, the risk of death from Alzheimer's disease and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was roughly four times higher among former players than the average American male. The study also compared mortality risks from speed players (quarterbacks, running backs, fullbacks, wide receivers, tight ends, linebackers, cornerbacks, and safeties) and nonspeed players (offensive and defensive linemen), with findings indicating that a greater number of deaths were attributable to neurodegenerative disorders in speed players than nonspeed players. This may be due to the increased momentum of collisions from speed players.\n\nOutside of neurodegenerative disorders, physical injuries sustained during a career can have an adverse effect on post-career life. A 1990 survey conducted jointly between the NFLPA and Ball State University found that 65% of surveyed players had suffered a major injury (defined as one that caused them to miss at least eight games): among players that played before 1959 this number was 42%, but it jumps to 72% among those who played in the 1980s. Additionally, roughly 50% of players who had played in the 1970s and 1980s reported that they retired due to injury, compared to only 32% among those who played prior to 1959. Two-thirds of players reported that injuries they had sustained limited their ability to engage in recreational activity and sports in retirement, while half said their injuries decreased their ability to perform manual labor. A follow-up survey in 1994 found that 47% of recipients reported having arthritis. These reports have been attributed to several factors, including the increase in the use of artificial turf as well as the increasing size and speed of players. Dr. James Andrews, a noted orthopedic surgeon, said that \"athletes are bigger, stronger and running faster, and they're tearing up knees from cutting, changing direction on a dime\". Andrews also noted the increase in the number of non-contact anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries, which he attributed to the size of modern players.\n\nInjuries have always been an extremely big part of American Football, and various methods have been used historically and in modern times to prevent them. One method that has been used to prevent injuries is changing the rules of the sport. An early example of this is the elimination of mass formations like the flying wedge in the early 1900s, due to the large number of severe injuries the formations caused. Smaller wedges consisting of three, four, or five players were frequently used on kickoff returns before wedges were limited to two or fewer players in 2009 by the NFL; a similar rule was adopted by the NCAA a year later. The sharp decrease in the number of catastrophic cervical spine injuries since the mid-1970s has been partially credited to rule changes that modified tackling and blocking techniques. With the increasing awareness of the long-term effects of concussions, the NFL has passed rules prohibiting the targeting of \"defenseless\" players over-the-shoulder, requiring plays to be blown dead when the runner loses his helmet, and placing more stringent limits to the ability of players who have sustained a concussion to return to play.\n\nSimilarly, modern equipment was developed to reduce injuries. The football helmet, although a scapegoat for concussions, serves as effective protection against more dangerous injuries like skull fractures. The modern helmet traces its roots back to the leather helmets used by football players in the early 1900s to protect themselves from head injuries. Helmets later evolved to be made of hard plastic, and a facemask was added to protect players from sustaining facial injuries. Many players also wear mouthguards to prevent injuries to their teeth and tongues; at some levels, such as the NCAA, the use of a mouthguard is mandatory. Football players wear a number of pads to protect themselves – shoulder pads are the most important pads, protecting the shoulder and sternum, but thigh pads, hip pads, tail pads, and knee pads are also used. Many quarterbacks wear flak jackets to protect their ribcage. Cleats come in a number of lengths, with players choosing which cleat to use based on the playing field – on artificial turf, for example, players prefer a shorter cleat to prevent their feet from digging into the ground and risking injury, while longer cleats are generally used on fields that are wet or slippery to provide better traction. Athletic cups are not typically used at the professional level, because athletic cups tend to make it harder to move and there is an unwritten code among players not to target the groin area. Additionally, studies have shown that proper conditioning techniques, fitness routines and exercise routines, as well as high-quality equipment and coaching, can reduce the risk of injury among players.\n"}
{"id": "49548882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49548882", "title": "Hesston shooting", "text": "Hesston shooting\n\nOn February 25, 2016, three people were killed and fourteen others injured in a series of shootings in Newton and Hesston, Kansas, including in and outside an Excel Industries building. The shooter, identified as Excel employee Cedric Larry Ford, was then killed by a responding police officer.\n\nThe shootings began at around 4:57 p.m. at a street intersection in Newton, where Ford shot at two vehicles in a drive-by shooting. The first motorist suffered a non-fatal gunshot wound to the shoulder, while the second motorist escaped unscathed after a bullet pierced the car's windshield. He then drove down Old U.S. Route 81 and fired at oncoming traffic. His vehicle and another one crashed in a nearby ditch, after which he got out, shot and injured the other driver in the leg, and stole that victim's vehicle.\n\nFord then arrived at Excel Industries, a manufacturer of lawnmowers, in Hesston, injured an elderly woman in the parking lot, went inside the building, and fired randomly at the assembly lines, shooting several employees. According to one person who was shot but survived, Ford seemed to hesitate before firing. He then shot at Chief Doug Schroeder, the first officer to respond to the scene, and Schroeder fired back. Ford was struck by bullets and died at 5:23 p.m. Ford was armed with a Zastava Arms AK-47-style semi-automatic rifle and a Glock 22 semi-automatic pistol. At least 150 people were inside the plant at the time of the shooting there.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the Kansas Bureau of Investigation were all called in for assistance in the investigation. It was originally reported that a standoff had occurred at Ford's residence when a roommate refused police entry. A Newton Police Department spokesman later stated that no such standoff had occurred, and that SWAT officers were securing the house as a precaution while a search warrant was obtained. The standoff ended later that night when officers breached the property and found no one inside.\n\nNearby Hesston College and Newton Medical Center were temporarily placed on lockdown. Two helicopters and fifteen ambulances were used to transport victims.\n\nOn February 26, Ford's 28-year-old ex-girlfriend Sarah Jo Hopkins was arrested for illegally providing him with the firearms used in the shootings. She was charged with one count of knowingly transferring a firearm to a convicted felon. According to court documents, Hopkins had police assist her in retrieving the firearms after she broke up with Ford, but later gave them back to him after he allegedly threatened her. Her trial was set to begin on May 3.\n\nImmediately after the shooting, the Excel Industries factory was closed down. It reopened on March 10, two weeks after the shooting.\n\nThree people were killed and fourteen others injured in the shooting spree. The slain victims were identified as Renee Benjamin, 30; Joshua Higbee, 31; and Brian Sadowsky, 44. All of them died inside the Excel plant. Six of the injured were hospitalized in Via Christi Hospital (Wichita), four in Wesley Medical Center (Wichita), and four in Newton Medical Center. Five of the injured were in critical condition.\n\nCedric Larry Ford ( 1978 – February 25, 2016), a painter for Excel, was identified as the shooter. A native of Miami, Florida, he was on probation for a series of convictions in Miami and living in Newton at the time of the shootings.\n\nFord had a criminal record stretching back to October 1996, when he was arrested for carrying a concealed firearm at the age of 18. In Harvey County, Kansas, Ford was arrested for drug possession, theft, and parole violation. Ford also had a misdemeanor conviction in relation to a brawl that occurred in 2008, as well as several traffic violations in 2014 and 2015. He was also arrested in Broward County, Florida for resisting arrest, battery, and grand theft.\n\nPrior to the shootings, on February 5, Ford's girlfriend accused him of assault and domestic violence, and issued a restraining order against him. The order was given to him on February 12, during which he \"acted annoyed but not out of the ordinary\", according to the police sergeant who served him the papers. However, because a sheriff's deputy failed to return the document on time, the order had to be served to Ford a second time. The second order was given to him on around 3:30 p.m. on the day of the shootings and may have been what sparked the event.\n\nOn June 8, an autopsy on Ford's body indicated high levels of methamphetamine and alcohol in his system. He had \"more than 135 times the standard dose\" of meth at the time of his death. According to an expert, \"[t]he combination of meth and alcohol can produce psychosis, delusions and an increased likelihood of acting on one's impulses\".\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama spoke by phone to Hesston Mayor David Kauffman to give his condolences to the victims and his thanks to the first responders. Kansas Governor Sam Brownback issued a statement in a Twitter post, offering condolences to the victims. He later urged all residents in Kansas to pray for the victims and their families, and pledged his support for the investigation. Brownback later lauded the response of police officers during the shootings, and expressed his pride towards the law enforcement community of Hesston.\n\nPaul Mullet, the president and chief executive officer of Excel Industries, said in a statement, \"We're really saddened by this horrific event. Our heart goes out to all of our employees and all of the families whose loved ones got injured and killed.\" On March 1, State Senator Forrest Knox questioned the effectiveness of a Kansas law that allowed private businesses to restrict firearms on their property.\n\nOn May 25, three months after the shootings, several people gathered along U.S. Route 81 for a \"spontaneous memorial\" dedicated to the victims and those affected. A ceremony was also held to recognize the first responders involved in the shootings, along with support personnel, volunteers, and others. During the event, Chief Doug Schroeder, the first responding officer who engaged Ford in a gunfight and killed him, was awarded a Medal of Valor for his heroic actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5506985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5506985", "title": "Iskar Reservoir", "text": "Iskar Reservoir\n\nThe Iskar Reservoir (язовир „Искър“) is the largest reservoir in Bulgaria. It is situated on the Iskar River and provides 2/3 of the water for the capital Sofia, also being used for producing hydroelectricity.\n\nThe reservoir has a total volume of 673 million m, of which 580 million are in use and the rest is reserve. The reservoir has a drainage basin of 1,046 km² and is 25 km long. It is situated at 820 m above sea level, its dam being 204 m long and 76 m high.\n\nThe initial plans for the construction of a dam on the Iskar date to as early as 1900-1901, immediately after the building of the Pancharevo Hydroelectric Power Plant. In 1921, the idea was once again brought up, but its accomplishment failed due to the municipality's inability to indemnify the residents of the neighbouring villages of Gorni Pasarel, Shishmanovo and Kalkovo. Topographic photographs and a geological assessment regarding the dam were made and observations of the Iskar's water level at Pasarel were conducted in 1932-1941 in order to build what was initially called the \"St Peter's Reservoir\" (named after the monastery in Dolni Pasarel which was supposed to be near the reservoir).\n\nNew geological research related to the reservoir's construction began in 1947 at four places between Gorni Pasarel and Pancharevo. The place at the Iskar's 37th kilometre was chosen as the most suitable in terms of geology, topography and economics. The waters of the river were further studied between 1947 and 1948.\n\nWork on the projects for an Iskar water power system commenced in early 1948 in the newly established Energohidroproekt. The design and the first draft were created by a team under the engineer Moiseev with the assistance of Soviet specialists. The project was approved by the expert council of the Ministry of Electrification and Melioration, and it was planned that the reservoir had a working volume of 520 million m and a reserve volume of 60 million m.\n\nThe preparative works began in 1949, the main construction was carried out in the end of 1950, the water power system being officially opened on 6 September 1954.\n"}
{"id": "22785154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22785154", "title": "Jane Thornthwaite", "text": "Jane Thornthwaite\n\nJane Thornthwaite (born 1958 or 1959) is a Canadian politician and activist who was elected as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the 2009 provincial election. In 2017 she was re-elected to a third term as member of the BC Liberal Party in the riding of North Vancouver-Seymour. Thornthwaite currently serves as the Official Opposition's critic role on Mental Health and Addictions and has been appointed to the Select Standing Committee on Public Accounts.\n\nThornthwaite was raised in West Vancouver, attending Hillside Secondary School and also in North Vancouver, attending Windsor Secondary School. She graduated from the University of British Columbia with a degree in health education. Prior to her election to the legislature, Thornthwaite worked as a registered dietitian and nutritionist for her own consulting business. According to Thornthwaite, working in that field fostered a sense of advocacy for organic foods and a desire for labelling of food products containing genetically modified ingredients. During that time she raised three children of her own.\n\nIn 2005, Thornthwaite stood as an independent in the North Vancouver School District election. She received the most votes, making her one of four candidates elected from the District of North Vancouver. The school board, facing declining enrollments, had to close schools, though there was resistance from the community. Balmoral Junior Secondary School was specifically identified as a school that ought to be closed, though the board refused and kept it open (until 2009) due to public pressure. Thornthwaite, along with another board member, issued a public statement criticizing the board's decision to enter into a public-private partnership to deliver courses specializing in dance, figure skating and other related disciplines. In the November 2008 election, Thornthwaite was the only board member seeking re-election. Entering her second term, Thornthwaite was elected chairperson of the board.\n\nIn March 2009, long-time Member of the Legislative Assembly Dan Jarvis suddenly announced his retirement and endorsed Thornthwaite to replace him as a candidate in the upcoming provincial election, a recommendation later supported by the party's election readiness committee. The electoral district was considered one of the safest BC Liberal ridings in the province and the 50-year-old Thornthwaite easily won, with her BC Liberal Party winning a majority government.\n\nOn February 22, during the 2010 Winter Olympics, Thornthwaite was driving home after attending receptions at the Northern House and Sochi House when at 1 am she was stopped at a road block near the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows Crossing. She twice registered a blood alcohol content of 0.11 in road-side breathalyzer tests and was arrested for drunk driving. The next day she issued a public apology stating \"Drinking and driving is dangerous and completely unacceptable; I know that and make no excuses for what I did. I know what I did was wrong and I will take full responsibility for my actions.\" At the trial, Thornthwaite argued that, while she did consume alcohol, she was not intoxicated. The prosecution and defense agreed to a plea bargain requiring Thornthwaite to plead guilty to \"driving without due care and attention\" in violation of the \"Motor Vehicle Act\", which came with a $500 fine and one-month of community service while allowing Thornthwaite to avoid a criminal record.\n\nThornthwaite was re-elected to a second term on May 14, 2013. She was appointed to the Select Standing Committee for Children and Youth, which she chaired, and the Parliamentary Secretary for Child Mental Health and Anti-Bullying. The Committee released an interim report on youth mental health in B.C., followed by a more comprehensive report with recommendations titled, \"Concrete Actions for Systemic Change\", in 2016. Many of the recommendations in the report were later adopted by government, including: supporting sexual and gender minority youth in schools through general and targeted programs, appointing a Minister for Mental Health, and Foundry, a collection of integrated, one-stop shop for youth ages 12 to 24 seeking a whole range of health care services, including mental health support, social services, employment services, and drug and alcohol programs. Thornthwaite also assisted in having a North Shore peak named after longtime North Shore Rescue Team Leader, Tim Jones (Search and Rescue). \n\nThornthwaite was part of a group of elected officials who helped spearhead the Lower Lynn Improvement Project, which saw approval and funding for improvements to interchanges at the North end of the Ironworkers Memorial Second Narrows Crossing. The project was initially to cost $140-million, but increased to $198-million after feedback and consultation with the public determined more infrastructure would result in a better project. \n\nIn 2012, Thornthwaite introduced legislation banning puppy mills in British Columbia, Bill M-214, known as the \"Standards of Care for Breeders of Companion Animals Act\". The bill did not pass initially, but Thornthwaite re-introduced it in 2016 after a government raid rescued 66 mistreated dogs from a puppy mill. The bill passed that April.\n\nJane Thornthwaite was re-elected as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) representing North Vancouver-Seymour for a third term in May 2017 with 47 percent of the vote. The Liberal Party's representative has typically won the vote for the North Vancouver-Seymour seat. As part of the BC Liberal Party, Thornthwaite serves as a member of the Official Opposition. She was appointed as official Opposition Critic for Mental Health and Addictions, a role similar to her prior work as Parliamentary Secretary of Mental Health for Children.\n\nThornthwaite has been a vocal proponent for bring ridesharing services, like Uber and Lyft, to the Metro Vancouver region. Vancouver remains the largest region in North America without ridesharing services. \n\nThornthwaite released a proposal in 2017 advocating for the SkyTrain to be extended to the North Shore. The plan would see the SkyTrain extended across the Burrard Inlet by the Ironworkers Memorial Bridge, and travel east towards Phibbs Exchange, Lonsdale Quay, and Park Royal Shopping Centre in West Vancouver. An SFU transportation expert, Stephan Nieweler, released preliminary findings from a study that concludes adding a fixed-rail link across the North Shore and, eventually, plugging it into the SkyTrain system across Burrard Inlet would result in more people choosing to get out of their cars. Thornthwaite has also lobbied TransLink for more SeaBus hours, a more equitable fare structure, and more bus service for the North Shore. \n\nSince being appointed the Critic for Mental Health and Addictions, Thornthwaite has advocated for more treatment and recovery services to be made available in BC. She has argued that making treatment more readily available will help those suffering from addiction get well. Thornthwaite also re-introduced the Safe Care Act, a private members' bill that would give parents and case workers the power to have children dealing with issues of mental health, substance abuse and sexual exploitation held involuntarily for up to 30 days for assessment and to create a care plan. Many parents of youth who have died from overdose have advocated for the bill's passage. \n\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total Valid Votes\n!align=\"right\"|22,685\n!align=\"right\"|100\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Total Rejected Ballots\n!align=\"right\"|100\n!align=\"right\"|0.4\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\" colspan=3|Turnout\n!align=\"right\"|22,785\n!align=\"right\"|61\n!align=\"right\"|\n!align=\"right\"|\n\n"}
{"id": "7017756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7017756", "title": "Legal aspects of ritual slaughter", "text": "Legal aspects of ritual slaughter\n\nThe legal aspects of ritual slaughter include the regulation of slaughterhouses, butchers, and religious personnel involved with traditional shechita (Jewish) and dhabiha (Islamic). Regulations also may extend to butchery products sold in accordance with kashrut and halal religious law. Governments regulate ritual slaughter, primarily through legislation and administrative law. In addition, compliance with oversight of ritual slaughter is monitored by governmental agencies and, on occasion, contested in litigation.\n\nThe most controversial aspect of ritual slaughter is the legality of unstunned slaughter, where animal welfare concerns regularly clash with religious concerns, and split public opinion.\n\nIn Western countries, law reaches into every stage of ritual slaughter, from the slaughtering of livestock to the sale of kosher or halal meat.\nIn the United States, for example, courts have ruled that kosher butchers may be excluded from collective bargaining units, a Jewish beit din (court) may forbid trade with disapproved butchers, retail sellers implicitly stipulate their compliance with rabbinic courts, a state law (NY) may incorporate a rabbinical ruling on kosher labeling, and kashrut symbols may be subject to trade infringement laws.\n\nIn Jones v. Butz, the action involved \"a challenge, under the Free Exercise and Establishment Clauses of the First Amendment, to the Humane Slaughter Act and in particular to the provisions relating to ritual slaughter as defined in the Act and which plaintiffs suggested involved the Government in the dietary preferences of a particular religious (e.g., Orthodox Jews) group. The court held that there is no violation of Establishment Clause because no excessive governmental entanglement and by making it possible for those who wish to eat ritually acceptable meat to slaughter the animal in accordance with the tenets of their faith, Congress neither established the tenets of that faith nor interfered with the exercise of any other.\"\n\nIn the United States religious slaughter is not practiced under any exemption, as is the case in several European legal codes. Instead the Humane Slaughter Act defines religious slaughter by Jews and Muslims as one of two humane methods for killing animals for food: \n\nby slaughtering in accordance with the ritual requirements of the Islamic and Jewish faith or any other religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby the animal suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument and handling in connection with such slaughtering. the other being using stunning.\n\nThe kosher food industry has challenged regulations as an infringement on religious freedom.\n\nSecular governments also have sought to restrict ritual slaughter not intended for food consumption. In the U.S., the most prominent such case is Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah. In this case, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled unconstitutional a local Florida ban on Santería ritual animal sacrifice.\n\nThe issue is complicated by allegations of antisemitism and xenophobia.\n\nLastly, recent debate in Switzerland has been contentious, in part, because of comparisons by a prominent activist between kosher slaughter and the methods used by Nazis in concentration camps. The metaphor was borrowed from the vegetarian and Nobel Prize laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer who said \"I am not a vegetarian for my own health, but for the health of the chickens\" and has one of his fictional characters say, \"every day is Treblinka for the animals.\" \n\nSome claim that, according to Jewish law and Muslim law, \"slaughter is carried out with a single cut to the throat, rather than the more widespread method of stunning with a bolt into the head before slaughter.\" However, other Jewish and Islamic authorities have stated that stunning is compatible with religious law. The practice of post-cut stunning, meaning that stunning is applied after the animal gets the throat cut, is regarded as a \"middle ground\".\n\nA 1935 fatwa by the Mufti of Dehli declared that stunning does not kill the animal and thus is 'reversible' and allowed under Islamic law. Al-Azhar rector Muhammad el-Tayyeb el-Naggar confirmed in 1982 that stunning would not make the practice un-Islamic. Many Muslim authorities accept reversible stunning prior to the cut, such as electrostunning, or concussion with a roundheaded (mushroom-shaped) hammer. In 2014, about 85% of halal meat produced by the Muslim community in the United Kingdom was pre-stunned.\n\nAccording to rabbi Norman Solomon (2000), some Reform Jews regard ethics as more important than diet, and reject the very notion of kosher meat. Within the Conservative (Masorti) denomination of Judaism, there is a broad consensus of accepting meat from animals stunned before slaughter as kosher. With some exceptions, Orthodox Jewish communities uphold the prohibition on stunning before slaughter.\n\nIn practice, a requirement for a shohet (Jewish ritual slaughterer) is that the shohet adheres to a high level of religiosity,\n\nSome rulers banned all killing on their land for some period each year, including ritual slaughter. Beop of Baekje banned all kinds of killing.Emperor Tenmu、Empress Genshō、Emperor Shōmu banned eating meat in Japan, in 675.Tokugawa Tsunayoshi who was Fifth General Shōgun of Edo (Japan) made animal protection laws and when he died, about 8000 criminals (including 3800 in Edo) who had been convicted of violating the law, were released (see ). According to the Red Annals (Deb-ther Dmar-po), Möngke Khan prohibited meat eating and killing four days each month.\n\nAfter conquering Bago in 1559, King Bayinnaung prohibited the practice of halal. Halal slaughter was also forbidden by King Alaungpaya in the 18th century.\n\nAccording to the \"White History of the Tenfold Virtuous Dharma\" (Arban Buyantu Nom-un Caġan Teüke), Altan Khan ordered the religious code Arban Buyantu Nom-un Cagaja prohibited human and animal sacrifice.\n\nIn the 1880s, anti-Semites joined forces with Animal Protection Societies to campaign for anti-shechita legislation to be passed in Switzerland, Germany and Scandinavia.\n\nIn Switzerland shechitah was forbidden throughout the whole country in 1893 after having been banned in the cantons of Aargau and St. Gallen in 1867 after plebiscites, and later a ban was introduced in the whole of Switzerland after a plebiscite at Federal level. The system of voting on individual policies using referendums (plebiscites) had only recently been introduced. and the first plebiscite in Swiss history was on the subject of banning shechita. The government and all the political parties were against the ban, but the popular sentiment won the day.\n\nNorway banned religious slaughter without pre-stunning in 1929.\n\nKosher slaughter was banned in Poland in 1936.\n\nSweden banned shechita (Jewish ritual slaughter) of cattle in 1937, and of poultry in 1989.\nGermany banned shechita nationwide three months after Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933. There had been a prior ban in the German state of Saxony, and the League of Nations had supported the Jewish Community of Upper Silesia against Hitler in rejecting the attempts by German officials to confiscate shehitah knives and ban Jewish slaughter there as had been done in the German Reich. Bans were introduced in all the countries which the Nazis occupied, as well as in the countries of the Axis allies: Italy and Hungary. Bans introduced by the German Third Reich and by Benito Mussolini were removed by Allied Command when the Allies liberated Europe.\n\nIn \"Religious Freedom: The Right to Practice Shehitah\", Munk, Munk and Berman documented every ban introduced in every country in Europe up to 1946, and made an analysis that claims that until the rise of Hitler in 1933, the international campaign to introduce ritual slaughter / shehitah bans had failed because the vast majority of countries where legislation had been proposed rejected the legislation realising the involvement of anti-Semites in the campaign and enacted legislation to stave off bans on Jewish and Muslim slaughter.\n\nArticle 9 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is headed – Freedom of thought, conscience and religion.\n1. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief, in worship, teaching, practice and observance.\n\n2. Freedom to manifest one's religion or beliefs shall be subject only to such limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic society in the interests of public safety, for the protection of public order, health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.\nIn those countries that have signed the convention, and, at the same time have enacted laws that effectively ban ritual slaughter have a conflict between the Convention and the law. In international law two principles apply: one being which law was enacted first, the other being the intentions of the lawmakers. (This principle was challenged in Pepper v Hart in the context of the UK.\n\nThe preparatory discussions for Article 9 of the European Convention dealt specifically with Shehitah as the matter was raised by a Jewish pressure group dealt specifically with effective bans on religious slaughter imposed by the Nazi Reich on countries in occupied Europe raised by a Jewish pressure group, and it has been pointed out that in disputed legislation the proper procedure is to refer back to the debates and discussions at the time of drafting the legislation, in order to see clearly what was intended. (\"reference later\"). Those countries that are signatories to the Convention and retain effective bans today are not abiding by the convention.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights, adopted in 1953, included sections on religious freedom that in the preliminary discussions, referred specifically to religious ritual slaughter bans.\n\nArticle 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights (1953) provides for a right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion which includes the freedom to manifest a religion or belief in, \"inter alia\", practice and observance, subject only to such restrictions as are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society.\"\n\nThe European Union directive, \"European Convention for the Protection of Animals for Slaughter\" (1998), generally requires stunning before slaughter, but allows member states to allow exemptions for religious slaughter: \"Each Contracting Party may authorize derogations from the provisions concerning prior stunning in the following cases: – slaughtering in accordance with religious rituals...\"\n\nConsequently, some member states have banned unstunned ritual slaughter, while others have not. Meat from unstunned animals can be freely exported and imported between member states. There is no EU legal requirement for meat from unstunned animals to be labelled as such, and EU-wide proposals for mandatory labelling have been strongly resisted. This leads to confusion amongst consumers, who often cannot know whether certain products are the result of unstunned ritual slaughter.\n\nThe European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) recommended in 2004 that \"due to the serious animal welfare concerns associated with slaughter without stunning, pre-cut stunning should always be performed\". The 22 June 2009 EU Slaughter Regulation, approved by the EU Agriculture Council, allowed religious slaughter without stunning to continue.\n\nPost-cut stunned slaughter was introduced as the minimum in the province of Lower Austria in 2001. The 2004 Animal Protection Act (Bundesgesetz über den Schutz der Tiere; Tierschutzgesetz – TSchG) made post-cut stunning the nationwide mandatory minimum.\n\nUnstunned conventional slaughter was banned in Wallonia in June 2018; unstunned ritual slaughter will be banned in September 2018. Unstunned ritual slaughter will be banned in Flanders in January 2019. Brussels still allows for unstunned ritual slaughter, but banned home slaughter in December 2017, and expected to debate a total ban on unstunned slaughter soon.\n\nIn February 2014, Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries Dan Jørgensen signed a regulation which banned ritual slaughter of animals without prior stunning. Prior to this, religious groups could file for an exemption to the law that required stunning if they wanted to slaughter without prior stunning, although no groups had applied for such exemption. At the time, all halal slaughter in Denmark was performed with prior stunning, while kosher slaughter (which does not allow stunning) had not been practiced in Denmark since around 2004, all kosher meat being imported. In spite of this, the Muslim and Jewish Communities in Denmark strongly opposed the decree, arguing that it constituted an infringement upon religious freedom.\n\nFinland's law on slaughter dates from the 1930s and allows post-stunning thereby permitting kosher slaughter and providing certain legislative protection for some forms of Muslim slaughter. Dhabhiha (halal slaughter) is practised in Finland, but there are not sufficient resources for Jewish slaughter, and all kosher meat is imported. In Åland the law prohibits bleeding to death unless animals have been previously stunned or directly killed.\n\nParagraph 4 of the 1934 Act (enacted April 14, 1934), reads:\n\nIt is forbidden to slaughter a domestic animal in any other way, except to render the animal insensible immediately before bleeding. \"Whenever religious reasons so demand\", let it be allowed by the Ministry of Agriculture, in such a way, that the animal is rendered insensible immediately after the arteries have been swiftly cut, but in such a case the veterinarian of the institution must be present personally to supervise the slaughtering\n\nDuring 1996, the debate over the practice of shechita (Jewish religious slaughter of animals) in Finland continued. Although a motion to pass a law prohibiting shechita (on animal rights grounds) was defeated in December 1995, thereby allowing the practice to continue in Finland (on the condition that the slaughtering takes place simultaneously with a stunning blow), parties opposed to shehitah were not satisfied. The debate has spanned several years, became an election issue during the 1995 general election and often took on an unpleasant tone, as the proponents of the ban (some of whom were politicians) equated shehitah with female circumcision and mutilation.\n\nRitual slaughter is permitted, with some restrictions.\n\nIn \"Jewish Liturgical Association Cha'are Shalom Ve Tsedek v. France\", 27 June 2000, (App No. 27417/95) the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights interpreted Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights in a case involving a lawsuit by Glatt kosher slaughterers against a French law recognizing a non-Glatt association (the ACIP) as having the exclusive right to conduct Jewish ritual slaughter in France.\nThe Court stated that ritual slaughter is a practice covered by the Article 9's guarantee of the right to manifest religious observance:\n\nIt is not contested that ritual slaughter, as indeed its name indicates, constitutes a rite or \"rite\"...whose purpose is to provide Jews with meat from animals slaughtered in accordance with religious prescriptions, which is an essential aspect of practice of the Jewish religion...It follows that the applicant association can rely on Article 9 of the Convention with regard to the French authorities' refusal to approve it, since ritual slaughter must be considered to be covered by a right guaranteed by the Convention, namely the right to manifest one's religion in observance, within the meaning of Article 9.\n\nThe Court then clarified the scope of Article 9, holding that it applies only to restrictions which would prevent consumers from being able to obtain ritually slaughtered meat:\n\nIn the Court's opinion, there would be interference with the freedom to manifest one's religion only if the illegality of performing ritual slaughter made it impossible for ultra-orthodox Jews to eat meat from animals slaughtered in accordance with the religious prescriptions they considered applicable. But that is not the case. It is not contested that the applicant association can easily obtain supplies of \"glatt\" meat in Belgium. Furthermore, it is apparent from the written depositions and bailiffs' official reports produced by the interveners that a number of butcher's shops operating under the control of the ACIP make meat certified \"glatt\" by the Beth Din available to Jews.\n\nThus, under the Court of Human Rights' interpretation (not unanimous) of the European Convention on Human Rights in the Cha'are Shalom case, restrictions on ritual slaughter are permissible, but only if they do not prevent religious adherents from obtaining religiously slaughtered meat.\n\nOn January 15, 2002 the German Federal Constitutional Court held that the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany provides a broader guarantee of human rights in the area of religious freedom than the European Convention on Human Rights. In an appeal by a Turkish citizen who practiced Islamic ritual slaughter, the German court struck down Germany's former ban on ritual slaughter, holding that the German Basic Law's guarantee of religious freedom prohibited the German government from applying a law requiring stunning prior to slaughter to observant Muslims who practice ritual slaughter for religious reasons, and that the Basic Law's guarantee of religious freedom applies to slaughterers as well as consumers of meat.\nThe German court held that under Article 2.1 of the German Basic Law, religious slaughterers have a distinct fundamental right to practice a religiously-recognized vocation. It also explained that merely permitting importation of ritually slaughtered meat is inadequate to protect the religious rights of individuals under Articles 4.1 and 4.2 of the German Basic Law (Constitution) because personal contact is important to ensuring compliance with religious requirements. It held that an exemption from laws that conflicted with this was therefore mandated:\n\nIt is true that the consumption of imported meat makes such renunciation [of meat-eating] dispensable; however, due to the fact that in this case, personal contact with the butcher and the confidence that goes with such contact do not exist, the consumption of imported meat is fraught with the insecurity whether the meat really complies with the commandments of Islam...Under these circumstances, an exemption from the mandatory stunning of warm-blooded animals before their blood is drained cannot be precluded if the intention connected with this exemption is to facilitate, on the one hand, the practice of a profession with a religious character, which is protected by fundamental rights, and, on the other hand, the observation of religious dietary laws by the customers of the person practicing the occupation in question. Without such exemptions, the fundamental rights of those who want to perform slaughter without stunning as their occupation would be unreasonably restricted, and the interests of the protection of animals would, without a sufficient constitutional justification, be given priority in a one-sided manner.\nLatvia legalised ritual slaughter in 2009. Halal meat products are exported to Sweden and animals are slaughtered using post-cut stunning.\n\nReligious exemptions to the 1995 law to stun all animals before slaughter became available in 2009.\n\nRitual slaughter is permitted, and regulated by a special convention concerning ritual slaughter.\nThe Party for the Animals (Dutch: \"Partij voor de Dieren\"; PvdD) was voted into the Dutch Parliament's Lower House with two MPs in 2006, increased to 6 MPs in 2017. Their election program had been to introduce an effective ban on ritual slaughter: Jewish shechita and Muslim dhabiha. The bill was passed in the Lower House of the Dutch Parliament with 116 votes to 30. Debate over the matter swiftly became a focus of animosity towards the Netherlands' 1.2 million-strong Muslim community. The country's Jewish population is comparatively small at 50,000.\n\nFollowing months of debate a last-minute concession was offered - the Muslim and Jewish communities would have a year to provide evidence that animals slaughtered by traditional methods do not experience greater pain than those that are stunned before they are killed.\n\nChief Rabbi Lord Sacks visited the Netherlands in May 2011 to lobby against the ban, arguing that pre-stunning failed in up to 10 percent of cases and that caused more pain than the swift cutting of the throat by a razor-sharp knife. He blamed the vote on \"a mischievous campaign by the animal rights lobby, based on emotive images and questionable science.\"\n\nDr. Joe Regenstein of Cornell University prepared a Preliminary Report for the Dutch government in May 2011. The Dutch Senate (Upper House) held a long debate, and voted down the bill. Ritual slaughter is to proceed as before, with a provision for post-cut stunning should the animal survive for more than 40 seconds. According to various individuals and groups, the stunned animal will be neither halal or kosher.\nOnly the Freedom Party of Geert Wilders, the Socialist Party, and the Animal Party wanted to forbid ritual slaughter in The Netherlands.\n\nSince 1 January 2018, a new regulation has been implemented that animals must lose consciousness within 40 seconds, otherwise stunning is required. Rumours spread that some Islamic abbatoirs had started to stun animals before the cut, prompting conservative Muslims in July to raise concerns whether the meat would still be halal. The Utrecht Mosques Partnership called for a boycott of all Dutch meat during Eid al-Adha in August, forsaking the traditional sacrifice. They recommended having an animal sacrificed abroad and the meat imported until the availability of what they consider 'halal' meat within the Netherlands can be guaranteed. However, the Associations of Imams in the Netherlands (VIN) criticised the move, stressing the importance of ritual sacrifice in Islam, and saying the boycott 'violated divine law'.\n\nPoland banned slaughter of non-stunned animals in January, 2013, thus losing to neighbouring countries, such as Lithuania, an annual half-a-billion euro export trade to Israel, Turkey, Egypt, Iran and other Muslim-majority nations. The claim was made by animal rights activists that kosher slaughter represented cruelty to animals. The legal developments were complex, involving a government amendment to a law requiring all animals to be stunned prior to slaughter. The amendment allowed an exception to protect the religious freedoms of Poland's tiny Jewish and Muslim communities.\n\nAfter pressure from animal rights groups, the Constitutional Court quashed the amendment on the grounds that it is not permissible to amend a law so that the original intention of the law is contradicted. In December 2014, the Polish Constitutional Court overturned the ban on kosher and halal slaughter since the protection of animals \"does not take priority over constitutional guarantees of religious freedom,\" with Judge stating in her final verdict that \"the constitution guarantees the freedom of religion which includes the carrying out of all activities, practices, rites and rituals which have a religious character.\"\n\nIn 2012, Slovenia amended its Animal Welfare Act to ban all forms of ritual slaughter. A group of Muslims requested the Constitutional Court to review the law, arguing unstunned ritual slaughter was a key part of the Islamic religion and therefore protected by the freedom of religion. However, the Court unanimously upheld the Act in 2018, stating that 'the Constitution did not allow easily preventable suffering to be inflicted on animals without a justified cause', and that this provision did 'not disproportionally interfere' with religious freedom.\n\nAnimal welfare is controlled under the provisions of the \"Animal Welfare Act 32/2007, of November 7th\". Article 6 of the act concerns slaughter of animals, including ritual slaughter:\n\nWhen the slaughter of animals is carried out according to the rites of Churches, religious denominations or communities registered in the Register of Religious Entities, and the stunning requirements are inconsistent with the rules of the respective religious rite, the competent authorities will not demand the compliance with such requirements provided that the procedure is carried out within the limits referred to in Article 3 of the \"Organic Law no. 7 of 5 July 1980 on Religious Freedom\". In any case, the slaughter according to whatever religious rite shall be carried out under the supervision and according to the instructions of the official veterinarian. The slaughterhouse shall notify the competent authority that it will carry out this kind of slaughter in order to have it registered for this purpose, without prejudice to the authorisation provided for in the European Community legislation.\n\nAll domestic animals must be stunned before slaughter. Ritual slaughter of cattle without stunning has been prohibited since 1937, and of poultry since 1989. Halal slaughter of stunned animals takes place in Sweden.\n\nUnstunned religious slaughter is legal in the UK. However, its legality is hotly debated by various religious and political groups and individuals. Both Muslims and non-Muslims, Jews and non-Jews are divided over the question whether meat from stunned animals is to be considered halal or kosher, and thus whether a ban on unstunned slaughter would or would not constitute a violation of the religious freedom of those Jews and Muslims who claim to have a right to consume meat from unstunned animals. Meanwhile, some animal welfare activists and groups argue that slaughter should be banned entirely, regardless of alleged justification.\n\nIn 2003, the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC), which advises the British government on how to avoid cruelty to livestock, stated the way Jewish Kosher and Muslim Halal meat is produced causes severe suffering to animals, and recommend the British government to ban Jewish and Muslim ritual slaughter (shechita and dhabihah). The British government rejected FAWC's advice. This elicited responses from shechita uk, and from Dr S. D. Rosen This is a continuation of a public debate that dates back to the founding or the Animal Protection Societies in the 1890s.\nS.D. Rosen's conclusion in a scientific paper is that \"Shechita (kosher slaughter) is a painless and humane method of animal slaughter\".\n\nFood Standards Agency figures from 2012 showed that more than 80% of animals are stunned before slaughter for halal meat in the UK.\n\nThe debate in the UK resurfaced in spring 2014 after Denmark prohibited unstunned slaughter in February that year. It began with a 6 March 2014 article of three page long in \"The Times\" by the British Veterinary Association's president John Blackwell, who claimed that in ritual slaughter the animal must be alive when its throat is cut and die from loss of blood, annually causing more than 600,000 animals in Britain unnecessary suffering. Vice-president Jonathan Arkush of the Board of Deputies of British Jews confronted Blackwell the same day on \"The Today Programme\" by saying that \"animals that are killed for the Jewish and Muslim markets do \"not\" bleed to death.\" He claimed that cutting an animal's throat \"instantly\" renders an animal \"insensible to pain and unconscious\", while on the other hand \"pre-stunning fails to stun in between 9 and 31% of cases, depending on which animal welfare charity you go to\", attributing the 9% figure to the RSPCA. Blackwell retorted that there is strong scientific evidence that, depending on the species, the animal remains conscious after the throat cut for an average of 7 seconds in sheep to up to 2 minutes in cattle, which is \"unacceptable from a welfare point of view\". Some Muslim and Jewish commentators accused Blackwell and his supporters of anti-Muslim or anti-Semitic prejudice, but Blackwell insisted that he respected religious beliefs and that \"the Danish unilateral banning [was done] purely for animal welfare reasons, which is right\". Numerous animal welfare societies backed Blackwell's position. National Secular Society campaigner Stephen Evans argued that the scientific consensus was clear that stunning was better for animal welfare, and that it was \"therefore both reasonable and appropriate to suggest that, unless religious communities can agree on more humane slaughter methods, their right to religious freedom should, in this instance, be limited in the interests of animal welfare.\"\n\nOn the day the controversy began on 6 April 2014, it was reported that about 80 to 85% of halal meat produced by the Muslim community in the United Kingdom was pre-stunned. However, the percentage of unstunned slaughtered animals within the British halal meat industry grew by around 60% in the ten months after this controversy began, following a Muslim campaign to change the practice.\n\nIn the rest of Europe the legal situation of ritual slaughter differs from country to country. While some countries have introduced bans, other countries - the US, the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands - introduced legislation protecting shehitah.\n\n\"The debate on Jewish religious slaughter in Norway first evolved in the animal protection movement in the late 1890s, but did not become a public matter until the Jews of Norway's capital Kristiania (now Oslo) were forced by the city authorities to abandon the practice of kosher slaughter (shehitah) within the city borders in 1913. From that moment and until the law prohibiting the practice on a national level was adopted by the Norwegian parliament on the 12th of June 1929, the debate made the headlines on several occasions in Norwegian newspapers in the interwar years. Hundreds of articles, letters and editorials discussed the case which was known as the «Schächtning-affair».1 The issue received especially much attention from the nationalist right-wing of the Agrarian movement, and the Jewish slaughter practice became subject to a massive campaign from the Agrarian press and from Agrarian party members of parliament. In its final phase during the 1920s, many of the critics were also heavily influenced by the modern anti-Semitic ideology that had evolved in Germany since the late 1870s. One of the most quoted statements from the debate was made by the Agrarian MP, and later prime minister Jens Hunseid (1883-1965) during the conclusive parliamentary session on June 12, 1929: «We have no obligation to deliver our domestic animals to the cruelties of the Jews, we have not invited the Jews to this country, and we have no obligation to provide the Jews animals to their religious orgies».\"\n\nNorway copied the Swiss campaign to ban ritual slaughter. The same arguments were presented as in the Swiss campaign and an appeal was made by the Jewish community to the Norwegian parliament not to introduce the legislation. After the ban was introduced, Norwegian Jews imported kosher meat from Sweden until it was banned there too.\n\nIn the 1890s, protests were raised in the Norwegian press against the practice of shechita. The Jewish community responded to these objections by assuring the public that the method was in fact humane. Efforts to ban shechita put sincere humane society activists in league with antisemitic individuals. Those opposing the ban included Fridtjof Nansen, but the division on the issue crossed party lines in all mainstream parties, except the Farmer's Party, which was principled in its opposition to schechita.\n\nThe Food Health regulations were controversial, especially the stunning requirement, as they would lead to a fundamental change in the meat producing market. A committee was commissioned on February 11, 1927 that consulted numerous experts and visited a slaughterhouse in Copenhagen. Its majority favored the changes and found support in the Department of Agriculture and the parliamentary agriculture committee. Those who opposed a ban spoke of religious tolerance, and also claimed that schechita was no more inhumane than other slaughter methods. C J Hambro was one of those most appalled by the discussion, claiming that \"where animal rights are protected to an exaggerated extent, it usually is done with the help of human sacrifice\"\n\nIn May 2010, Minister of Agriculture David Carter issued a ban on kosher slaughter, rejecting the recommendations of his advisors. Carter held shares in a firm which exports meat and prior to instituting the ban he met senior managers of the firm who wanted a ban on kosher slaughter to reduce their competition. In November 2010, the ban on kosher slaughter of chickens was overturned, but the ban on kosher slaughter of beef was still in effect and kosher beef had to be imported from Australia. In June 2011 the World Jewish Congress adopted a resolution calling on the New Zealand Government to abrogate its ban on kosher slaughter.\n\nThe Swiss banned unstunned slaughter in 1893 after a plebiscite so that a law requiring stunning prior to blood letting (exsanguination) was included in the Swiss Constitution. This required every abbatoir to stun animals before slaughter, including Jewish and Islamic ones. The plebiscite had been preceded by a long anti-Semitic campaign, in which Jews were supported by Catholics, who had suffered under Otto von Bismarck in his anti-Catholic \"Kulturkampf\". Catholic priests gave sermons encouraging their parishioners to vote against the effective ban, and the results of the referendum showed that French-speaking Cantons had voted against the ban, but German-speaking Protestant cantons that had voted for the ban.\n\nIn Switzerland, a ban on kosher slaughter has been enforced since 1897, when the people supported this measure through a referendum with clear anti-Semitic undertones. At the time, Jews had recently been granted full civil rights and some Swiss citizens feared an invasion of Jewish migrants from Eastern Europe, who they considered to be unassimilable, foreign, and unreliable. By banning the performance of a core Jewish ritual, the Swiss people found a disguised way to limit the immigration of Jews into Switzerland.\nAccording to the US Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labour \"Ritual slaughter (the bleeding to death of animals that have not first been stunned) was made illegal in the country in 1893; however, a 1978 Law on the Protection of Animals explicitly allows for the importation of kosher and halal meat. Imported from France and Germany, this meat is available in the country at comparable prices. In 2003, a popular initiative to protect animal rights and prohibit the import of meat from animals bled without stunning was filed; in December 2005, however, the sponsors withdrew their initiative before it had been submitted to a national vote after Parliament adopted a revision of the Law on the Protection of Animals.\"\n\nThe Swiss Federation of Jewish Communities (SIG), founded in 1904, regards the 1893 ban on unstunned slaughter as antisemitic.\n\nThere was a backlash against a proposal to lift the ban in 2002. \"In 2002, when the Swiss government attempted to lift the century-old ban, animal rights activists, political groups (on the left and the right), and unaffiliated citizens expressed strong opposition. They called shechita practice a \"barbaric\" and \"sanguinary\", an \"archaic tradition from the time of the ghettos\", and asked Jews to either become vegetarian or leave the country.\"\n\nSwitzerland has considered extending the ban in order to prohibit importing kosher products. The Swiss Animal Association called for a referendum on banning kosher imports. Christopher Blocher, a cabinet minister for the Swiss People's Party, has supported calls to ban the import of kosher and halal meat. \"A recent survey showed more than three-quarters of the population said they would like to see their government ban even the import of kosher meat. Erwin Kessler, president of \"Verein gegen Tierfabrik (Association against animal factories)\" who has several convictions for racial offenses, including the comparison of Jewish ritual slaughter of animals with the Nazi treatment of Jews \n, has been campaigning vigorously for this. He's 40,000 short of the 100,000 signatures needed to trigger a referendum to completely ban kosher and halal meat entering Switzerland. Kessler has inflamed the controversy by publicly quoting vegetarian and literature Nobel Laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer comparing kosher slaughter to the methods used by Nazis in concentration camps, but denies that his motives are anti-semitic.\"\n\nIn June 2017, MP Matthias Aebischer (Social Democratic Party) proposed a bill to ban the import of meat from animals that have undergone ritual slaughter. The bill also included a ban on foie gras, which is controversial because it is produced by forcefeeding geese which is widely considered cruel, despite being popular amongst especially French-speaking Swiss.\n\nThe United States is one of the countries that has legislation for protection of shechita (Jewish) and dhabihah (Muslim) ritual slaughter.\nThe Humane Slaughter Act defines ritual slaughter as one of two humane methods of slaughter.\n\nSince 1958 the United States has prohibited the shackling and hoisting of cattle without stunning them first.\n\nIn Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah 508 U.S. 520 (1993), the United States Supreme Court struck down a ban imposed by the City of Hialeah, Florida, on Santería religious animal sacrifices practiced by the Church as contravening the religious freedoms guaranteed by the Free Exercise Clause of the Constitution of the United States. While the City of Hialeah claimed that its ban on ritual slaughter \"not for the primary purpose of food consumption\" was motivated by concerns for animal welfare and public health, the Supreme Court held that ample evidence showed that it was in fact motivated by animosity to the Santería religion and a desire to suppress it:\n\nThat the ordinances were enacted \"'because of,' not merely 'in spite of'\", their suppression of Santería religious practice is revealed by the events preceding enactment of the ordinances. The minutes and taped excerpts of the June 9 session, both of which are in the record, evidence significant hostility exhibited by residents, members of the city council, and other city officials toward the Santería religion and its practice of animal sacrifice. The public crowd that attended the June 9 meetings interrupted statements by council members critical of Santería with cheers and the brief comments of Pichardo with taunts. When Councilman Martinez, a supporter of the ordinances, stated that in pre-revolution Cuba \"people were put in jail for practicing this religion\", the audience applauded. Other statements by members of the city council were in a similar vein. For example, Councilman Martinez, after noting his belief that Santería was outlawed in Cuba, questioned, \"if we could not practice this [religion] in our homeland [Cuba], why bring it to this country?\" Councilman Cardoso said that Santería devotees at the Church \"are in violation of everything this country stands for.\" Various Hialeah city officials made comparable comments. The chaplain of the Hialeah Police Department told the city council that Santería was a sin, \"foolishness\", \"an abomination to the Lord\", and the worship of \"demons.\" He advised the city council that \"We need to be helping people and sharing with them the truth that is found in Jesus Christ.\" He concluded: \"I would exhort you . . . not to permit this Church to exist.\" The city attorney commented that Resolution 87-66 indicated that \"This community will not tolerate religious practices which are abhorrent to its citizens...\" Similar comments were made by the deputy city attorney. This history discloses the object of the ordinances to target animal sacrifice by Santería worshippers because of its religious motivation.\n\nIn sum, the neutrality inquiry leads to one conclusion: The ordinances had as their object the suppression of religion. The pattern we have recited discloses animosity to Santería adherents and their religious practices; the ordinances by their own terms target this religious exercise; the texts of the ordinances were gerrymandered with care to proscribe religious killings of animals but to exclude almost all secular killings; and the ordinances suppress much more religious conduct than is necessary in order to achieve the legitimate ends asserted in their defense. These ordinances are not neutral, and the court below committed clear error in failing to reach this conclusion\n\nThe Court also found that the city's proffered reasons for its ban simply did not explain or justify it.\n\nRespondent claims that [the ordinances] advance two interests: protecting the public health and preventing cruelty to animals. The ordinances are underinclusive for those ends. They fail to prohibit non religious conduct that endangers these interests in a similar or greater degree than Santería sacrifice does. The underinclusion is substantial, not inconsequential. Despite the city's proffered interest in preventing cruelty to animals, the ordinances are drafted with care to forbid few killings but those occasioned by religious sacrifice. Many types of animal deaths or kills for nonreligious reasons are either not prohibited or approved by express provision.\n\nTemple Grandin, who is both an animal welfare activist and the leading American designer of commercial slaughterhouses, has outlined techniques for humane ritual slaughter. She considers shackling and hoisting of animals for slaughter to be inhumane, and has developed alternative approaches usable in production plants. Grandin has coordinated this with the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards of the Conservative movement in the United States, and in 2000 the Committee voted to accept her approach, ruling that \"Now that kosher, humane slaughter using upright pens is both possible and widespread, we find shackling and hoisting to be a violation of Jewish laws forbidding cruelty to animals and requiring that we avoid unnecessary dangers to human life. As the CJLS, then, we rule that shackling and hoisting should be stopped.\"\n\nIn an investigation by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, undercover video was obtained of kosher slaughtering practices at a major kosher slaughterhouse run by Agriprocessors in Postville, Iowa. The methods used there involved clamping the animals into a box which is then inverted for slaughter, followed by partial dismemberment of the animal before it was dead. Those methods have been condemned as unnecessarily cruel by PETA and others, including Grandin and the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards, but are endorsed by the Orthodox Union, which supervises the slaughterhouse. An investigation by the USDA resulted in some minor operational changes. A lawsuit under Iowa law is pending. Grandin's comment was \"I thought it was the most disgusting thing I'd ever seen. I couldn't believe it. I've been in at least 30 other kosher slaughter plants, and I had never ever seen that kind of procedure done before. ...\nI've seen kosher slaughter really done right, so the problem here is not kosher slaughter. The problem here is a plant that is doing everything wrong they can do wrong\". In 2006 the Orthodox Union, Temple Grandin and Agriprocessors had reportedly resolved their problems. In 2008, though, Grandin reported that Agriprocessors had again become \"sloppy\" in their slaughter operation and was \"in the bottom 10%\" of slaughterhouses.\n\nAgriprocessors faced accusations of mistreatment of cattle, pollution, and a series of alleged violations of labor law. In May 2008, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) staged a raid of the plant, and arrested nearly 400 illegal immigrant workers. Agriprocessors plants stopped operating in October 2008, and the firm filed for bankruptcy on November 5 of the same year. Sholom Rubashkin as the highest ranking day-to-day corporate officer was charged with federal financial fraud and sentenced to 27 years in prison in June 2010.\n\nThe Agriprocessors plant was bought at auction in July 2009 by SHF Industries and has resumed production under the new name \"Agri Star\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18745000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18745000", "title": "László Harasztosi", "text": "László Harasztosi\n\nLászló Harasztosi, also known as Lazlo Hypnotist, is a psychic, bioenergeticist, and alternative medicine practitioner. His speciality is attaching metal objects on human bodies. When breaking the Guinness record in 1998, he placed two disks weighing altogether 57,64 kg (127 lbs) on László Fekete’s chest (the strongest man of Hungary). \n\nHis activity consists of healing, performances in shows, and preparation of sportspeople. Cosmos Church of Universal Love was founded with his leadership. His book titled \"Cosmic energy – how autotherapy works and how to use the healing coin\" was published in 1996.\n\nHe was born on 28 June 1963, in the Eastern Hungarian village of Berettyóújfalu. As he stated, his ability was discovered at the age of seven, when they noticed that his touch stops pain and his presence calms down children who have gone wild. Before the change of regime of 1989 in Hungary, he had to conceal his abilities for political reasons.\n\nHe claims to regularly charge up chosen athletes with focused cosmic energy, which creates further resources for them, enabling them to achieve better results, increase endurance, make their muscles more flexible, shorten reaction time and recovery time.\n\n\nHe appeared in Hungary in the programme \"Esti Showder\" by RTL Klub, among other programmes.\n\n"}
{"id": "17216993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17216993", "title": "Mark H. Ashcraft", "text": "Mark H. Ashcraft\n\nMark Henry Ashcraft (born December 8, 1949) is an American academic and the chair of the Department of Psychology at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. He received his PhD in cognitive psychology from the University of Kansas in 1975. He has published multiple books and articles on cognitive psychology, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "23748347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748347", "title": "Mataika House", "text": "Mataika House\n\nMataika House (in Tamavua, Suva, Fiji) is the building that houses, and the informal name for, what is formally now called the Fiji Centre for Communicable Disease Control (FCCDC), and what used to be called the National Centre for Scientific Services for Virology and Vector Borne Diseases (NCSSVVBD), a subdivision of the Fiji Ministry of Health.\n\nFor the purposes of the World Health Organization's Global Influenza Programme (GISN), the FCCDC is the National Influenza Centre designated by the government of Fiji, having been designated as such in 2004.\n\nOfficially opened as the NCSSVVBD on 1999-12-02 by Dr Shigeru Omi, the WHO regional director for the Western Pacific, the Centre's name was changed to the FCCDC on 2005-02-09.\n\n"}
{"id": "392239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392239", "title": "Microtrauma", "text": "Microtrauma\n\nMicrotrauma is the general term given to small injuries to the body.\n\nMicrotrauma can include the microtearing of muscle fibres, the sheath around the muscle and the connective tissue. It can also include stress to the tendons, and to the bones (see Wolff's law). It is unknown whether or not the ligaments adapt like this. Microtrauma to the skin (compression, impact, abrasion) can also cause increases in a skin's thickness, as seen from the calluses formed from running barefoot or the hand calluses that result from rock climbing. This might be due to increased skin cell replication at sites under stress where cells rapidly slough off or undergo compression or abrasion.\n\nMost microtrauma cause a low level of inflammation that cannot be seen or felt. These injuries can arise in muscle, ligament, vertebrae, and discs, either singly or in combination. Repetitive microtrauma which are not allowed time to heal can result in the development of more serious conditions.\n\nBack pain can develop gradually as a result of microtrauma brought about by repetitive activity over time. Because of the slow and progressive onset of this internal injury, the condition is often ignored until the symptoms become acute, often resulting in disabling injury. Acute back injuries can arise from stressful lifting techniques done without adequate recovery, especially when experimenting with more ballistic work, or work where the extensor spinae are stressed during spinal flexion when much of the load is commonly taken up by the slower to heal ligaments which may not adapt progressively to the stress. While the acute injury may seem to be caused by a single well-defined incident, it may have been preventable or lessened if not for the years of injury to the musculoskeletal support mechanism by repetitive microtrauma.\n\nAfter microtrauma from stress (such as lifting weights) to muscles, they can be rebuilt and overcompensate to reduce the likeliness of re-injury.\n"}
{"id": "7707147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7707147", "title": "Minamata disease compensation agreements of 1959", "text": "Minamata disease compensation agreements of 1959\n\nThe Minamata disease compensation agreements of 1959 were agreed between the polluting Chisso company and representative groups of fishermen and Minamata disease patients who had been affected by mercury pollution. The agreements and their formation shared a number of common characteristics. They were formulated outside the legal system, by ad-hoc mediation committees specially established for the purpose. Members of the committees and the final agreements were weighted in favour of Chisso and all included punitive clauses that the groups could make no future claims for compensation against the company.\n\nEver since 1908 when Chisso opened the factory in Minamata wastewater had been dumped into the seas around Minamata, particularly into Minamata Bay via the waste canal outlet in Hyakken Harbour. Damage to fisheries was inevitable and the Minamata Fishing Cooperative had demanded compensation from the company on two occasions previous to the outbreak of Minamata disease. After direct negotiations in 1926 the company agreed to pay \"sympathy money\" to the cooperative of JPY1,500 (USD704). By using the term the company avoided accepting responsibility for the damage and sought to prevent further claims by including a clause in the agreement that the cooperative would \"never again lodge complaints\" against Chisso. This pattern of denial of responsibility and the inclusion of punitive clauses repeated itself again and again in Chisso's dealings with complainants. The pollution continued unabated and another agreement was signed in 1943. This time the cooperative was paid JPY152,500 in compensation for future and past damage to fishing. The cooperative was also forced to acknowledge Chisso's \"importance to the prosperity of Minamata\" and \"the need to cooperate so as not to harm its operations\", indicating the unequal nature of the agreement.\n\nBy the time of the outbreak of Minamata disease the fishing situation had become critical. From 1953 to 1957 the fish catch in Minamata had declined by a staggering 91%. In 1956, the Kumamoto prefectural government had attempted to limit the spread of the disease by banning the \"sale\" of fish caught from Minamata Bay, but did not issue and all-out ban. This left fishermen with fish they could not sell, but no financial assistance to compensate their losses. In September 1958 the Minamata Fishing Cooperative petitioned the prefecture to ban fishing completely so that their members might be properly compensated under the Fisheries Law and Food Sanitation Act. The government did not respond and only advised the fishermen against consumption of the fish and shellfish they caught from the bay. However, with no source of income, many fishermen were left with no choice but to eat the suspect fish they caught. In fact, throughout the history of the Minamata disease problem, the catching of fish from Minamata Bay has never been legally prohibited.\n\nDespite the ban on the sale of contaminated fish, there was still widespread suspicion amongst local people that fish caught in the Minamata area was unsafe and by June 1959 several fish shops had gone out of business from plummeting demand. Desperate, and with no assistance from government, the cooperative was forced into direct negotiations with the company. On 6 August 400 members of the cooperative marched on the factory and in a hostile atmosphere met with factory manager Eiichi Nishida. The fishermen's demand for the cleanup of Minamata Bay, the installation of wastewater treatment facilities and JPY100 million (USD278,000) was met with an offer of \"emergency sympathy money\" to the value of JPY500,000 (USD1,390) and a promise to consult with the company's head office in Tokyo.\n\nFishermen from the cooperative again forced their way into the factory on 12 August to continue negotiations. No agreement could be reached but the two sides did manage to agree to a joint inspection of fishing conditions in Minamata Bay, followed by further talks on 17 August. After this inspection Chisso admitted that fishing was impossible in some areas and made a final offer of JPY13 million (USD36,100). This paltry sum incensed the fishermen. Violence broke out, riot police were called and Nishida and other company employees were effectively held hostage in the factory building. Only after Mayor Todomu Nakamura agreed to mediate between the two sides did the fishermen leave the factory grounds. The mediation committee formed by Mayor Nakamura was stacked heavily in Chisso's favour and presented a decision on 26 August. The company would pay JPY20 million (USD55,600) directly to the cooperative and set up a JPY15 million (USD41,700) fund to promote the recovery of fishing. The proposal was qualified with the ultimatum that if either side rejected, the committee would stop mediation completely. On 29 August the fishing cooperative delivered its response: \"In order to end the anxiety of the citizens, we swallow our tears and accept\". The company also agreed and the first compensation agreement between Chisso and fisherman was complete.\n\nTo the company's disappointment, this first agreement did not bring an end to problems with fishermen. Since Chisso had switched the wastewater output from Minamata Bay to the mouth of Minamata River in September 1958 the environmental damage had spread even further up and down the Shiranui Sea. Cats had started to die in Ashikita to the north and in Izumi to the south of Minamata and new Minamata disease patients were also appearing. The pollution was having a widespread effect on fishing catches and fish sales as people's confidence in the safety of their food evaporated. This drove the Kumamoto Prefectural Alliance of Fishing Cooperatives to take action of a similar pattern to that taken by the Minamata Fishing Alliance earlier in the year, but on a larger scale. On 17 October, 1,500 fishermen from the alliance descended on the factory demanding direct negotiations with Chisso. When company officials refused, the fishermen forced their way into the factory and attacked the security office, breaking windows and injuring seven guards. Alliance president Ushita Murakami delivered their demands to company manager Nishida, who promised a prompt reply. When the response came, the company said that since the factory's waste had still not been proven as the cause of Minamata disease, and it could offer the fishermen nothing.\n\nUnsatisfied, Murakami and followers travelled to Tokyo and met with officials of numerous government departments to outline their plight. He managed to secure a promise from members of the Diet that they would visit Minamata to investigate the situation. When the Diet party arrived in Minamata on 2 November they were met by a crowd of 4,000 demonstrators (including fishermen and disease victims groups alike) outside the Municipal Hospital. The crowd was extremely respectful to the Diet members and pleaded with them for help. The members thanked the demonstrators for bringing the issue to the attention of the national government and promised they would do all they could.\n\nEmboldened after their demonstration at the hospital, the alliance fishermen marched on the factory to again demand negotiations. The company refused and the fishermen forced their way in and rioted, attacking many buildings and significantly damaging company property. Riot police arrived and serious fighting continued sporadically for the rest of the day until the fishermen dispersed around 9 pm. Injuries included 30-40 fishermen, two company employees, factory manager Nishida himself, 64 policemen and the chief of police. Damages to company property amounted to JPY10 million (USD27,800). Before the riot the Minamata disease issue had been skirted by the national media and had been chiefly a local issue. The violent riot however was covered widely in the national media and for the first time since the discovery of the disease in 1956 the issue of Minamata disease had nationwide coverage.\n\nA mediation committee headed by Kumamoto Prefecture Governor Hirosaku Teramoto was formed to hammer out a solution. At a meeting on 2 December the prefectural fishing alliance outlined their demands: compensation of JPY2.5 billion (USD6.9 million) for damage to fishing since 1953, the temporary closure of the factory and removal of toxic sludge. The committee then met company executives, including Chisso president Kiichi Yoshioka, who responded with an offer that amounted to \"nearly zero\". After weeks of wrangling the fishing alliance reduced its demands to JPY980 million (USD2.7 million) and Chisso, under increasing pressure from all sides, relaxed its position. The proposed agreement (presented with the ultimatum of no further mediation from the committee should it be rejected, as previously) called for the immediate installation of wastewater treatment facilities, JPY35 million compensation to be paid to the alliance (JPY10 million of which would be deducted to cover the damage caused in the 2 November riots) and a JPY65 million fund for the recovery of the fishing industry. The agreement also included a clause that the alliance could never demand further compensation, even if the factory's waste was proven to be the cause of the damage. The agreement was accepted by both sides on 17 December.\n\nIn 1959, the victims of Minamata disease and their families were in a much weaker position than the fisherman who had extracted at least some \"sympathy money\" from Chisso. The only patients' organisation present at the time of the fishermen's agreements was the Minamata Disease Patients Families Mutual Aid Society, which had only been established in August 1957. They were much fewer in number (in November 1959 the society only represented the 58 families of 78 patients) and the membership of the society was more divided than the relatively united fishermen. One factor driving the division of the patients was the discrimination and ostracism some families were experiencing in the Minamata community. Local people, who were naturally averse to uncleanliness and disease, felt that the company (and their city that depended upon it) was facing economic ruin under the pressure of the various groups making demands of it. Even fishermen, who were fellow victims of the company's pollution, discriminated against disease victims because they were stoking fears that prevented the sale of their fish. To some patients this ostracisim from the community represented a greater fear than the disease itself.\n\nIn a similar fashion to the fishermen's associations, the Mutual Aid Society began by petitioning the city and prefectural governments and visited Kumamoto city on 21 November. When their petitions produced no results, the society approached Chisso directly and demanded compensation of JPY234 million (USD650,000) – JPY3 million (USD8,300) per person. On 28 November the company replied that the link between the factory's wastewater and Minamata disease had not been proven and could, therefore, offer them nothing but an expression of sympathy. The society began a sit-in at the company gates, which was to last a whole month.\n\nAround 50 members of the society travelled to Kumamoto on 1 December and made a request to Governor Teramoto to include the patients' request for compensation with the mediation that was ongoing with the prefectural fishing alliance. He agreed to consult with the company and when the mediation committee presented its deal to the fishing alliance on 16 December, it also presented a proposal for \"sympathy\" payments to the Mutual Aid Society, even though no representatives had been present on the mediation committee. The proposal amounted to a total compensation package of JPY74 million. The money would be allocated to patients certified by a committee to be established by the Ministry of Health and Welfare as follows: adult patients would receive JPY100,000 (USD278) and children JPY10,000 (USD28) per year; families of dead patients would receive a JPY320,000 (USD889) payment. Society leader Eizō Watanabe agreed that the overall level of compensation was acceptable but rejected the plan over the staggered schedule of payments and the very small sum being offered for child victims.\n\nThe mediation committee reconvened on 25 December and agreed to increase the child payments to JPY30,000 (USD83) per child. The Mutual Aid Society held a vote of its members but the agreement was rejected by a single vote. Society leader Watanabe offered his resignation in protest but when another vote was held on 27 December members accepted the agreement and his resignation was withdrawn. As usual, the agreement did not admit responsibility for Minamata disease. The payments were \"sympathy money\" and the agreement included a clause that, \"Even if in the future it is determined that the cause of Minamata disease \"is\" the factory's wastewater, [the patients] will make absolutely no further demands for compensation\", along with an extra clause that, \"If in the future it is determined that the cause of Minamata disease is \"not\" the factory's wastewater, the company shall end payments at the end of that month.\" The final agreement was accepted by both sides on 29 December 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "20443754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20443754", "title": "Muslim Free Hospital", "text": "Muslim Free Hospital\n\nThe Muslim Free Hospital was established as a small dispensary in 1937 in Rangoon, Burma and gradually it has come up to the present status of a 160 bedded hospital.\n\nThe chief aims and objectives of the hospital are to help the poor, the needy and the sick without discrimination of caste, creed or colour. The hospital is one of many in Burma run purely on a voluntary means and raises funds to treat people.\n\nThe hospital comprises three buildings; main on the Maha Bandula Garden Street and two buildings on the 35th Street and are connected by over head bridges.\n\nThe author and human rights activist Ma Thida has worked as a surgeon at the hospital.\n"}
{"id": "3281265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3281265", "title": "Nhlangano AIDS Training Information and Counseling Center", "text": "Nhlangano AIDS Training Information and Counseling Center\n\nThe Nhlangano AIDS Training Information and Counseling Center (NATICC) is a faith-based, non-profit NGO that provides information, training and counseling on HIV/AIDS in Nhlangano, Swaziland. The formation of the organization in 2002 was prompted by the fact that the Shiselweni region has continued to have high infection rates (42.5% in 2004) as compared to other regions in Swaziland.\n\nNATICC is affiliated to the Free Evangelical Christian Fellowship of Swaziland. It is funded by Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, and Norwegian Church Aid. NATICC comprises a team of well-trained HIV/AIDS educators and counselors. The center is based at the Bethesda Mission Station in Nhlangano, but reaches out to the whole of the Shiselweni Region. NATICC is the Voluntary Counseling & Testing (VCT) Center for Nhlangano Town.\n\nSince 2008, the Minister of Health in Swaziland has come from NATICC: first Benedict Xaba (2008-2013) and most recently Sibongile Ndlela-Simelane. \n"}
{"id": "48738094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48738094", "title": "Nirogdham Patrika", "text": "Nirogdham Patrika\n\nNirogdham Patrika (Hindi:निरोगधाम पत्रिका ) is a popular quarterly family health magazine for people published in Indore Madhya Pradesh India since 1979. . At that time there were not a single health magazines into the market. \"Nirogdham Patrika\" started spreading health awareness in the country.\n\n\"Nirogdham Patrika\" was founded by RasVaidya Premdutt Pandey. The first edition of the magazine was released in 1979. At that time, there were not any health magazines to spread awareness in India, slowly it became one of the best selling family health magazines. At that time in 1979 the people were not aware of Ayurveda, science and its usage into life. The initiative of \"Nirogdham Patrika\" to spread the Ayurveda worked very well.\n\n\"Nirogdham Patrika\" is currently one of the oldest selling Health magazine with a readership of 20 lack approx. The magazine has both national and international demands and covers the topics like Ayurvedic medicine, yoga, homeopathy, health tips and many more.\n\nThe \"Nirogdham Patrika\" have doctors which help the readers who ask questions via letter or email. Some questions are also published in the magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2613847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2613847", "title": "Overnutrition", "text": "Overnutrition\n\nOvernutrition or hyperalimentation is a form of malnutrition in which the intake of nutrients is oversupplied. The amount of nutrients exceeds the amount required for normal growth, development, and metabolism. \n\nThe term can also refer to:\n\nFor mineral excess, see:\n\nOvernutrition may also refer to greater food consumption than appropriate, as well as other feeding procedures such as parenteral nutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "40399131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40399131", "title": "Psychological and sociological effects of spaceflight", "text": "Psychological and sociological effects of spaceflight\n\nPsychological and sociological effects of space flight are important to understanding how to successfully achieve the goals of long-duration expeditionary missions. Although robotic spacecraft have landed on Mars, plans have also been discussed for a human expedition, perhaps in the 2030s, or as early as 2021 for a return mission, or even in 2018 for a 501-day flyby mission for a crew of two with no landing on Mars.\n\nA Mars return expedition may last two to three years and may involve a crew of four to seven people, although shorter flyby missions of approximately one and half years with only two people have been proposed, as well as one-way missions that include landing on Mars with no return trip planned. Although there are a number of technological and physiological issues involved with such a mission that remain to be worked out, there are also a number of behavioral issues affecting the crew that are being addressed before launching such missions. In preparing for such an expedition, important psychological, interpersonal and psychiatric issues occurring in human spaceflight missions are under study by national space agencies and others.\n\nIn October 2015, the NASA Office of Inspector General issued a health hazards report related to human spaceflight, including a human mission to Mars.\n\nResearchers have conducted two NASA-funded international studies of psychological and interpersonal issues during on-orbit missions to the Mir and the International Space Station. Both crew members and mission control personnel were studied. The Mir sample involved 13 astronauts and cosmonauts and 58 American and Russian mission control personnel. The corresponding numbers in the ISS study were 17 space travelers and 128 people on Earth. Subjects completed a weekly questionnaire that included items from a number of valid and reliable measures that assessed mood and group dynamics. Both studies had similar findings. There was significant evidence for the displacement of tension and negative emotions from the crew members to mission control personnel. The support role of the commander was significantly and positively related to group cohesion among crew members, and both the task and support roles of the team leader were significantly related to cohesion among people in mission control. Crew members scored higher in cultural sophistication than mission control personnel. Russians reported greater language flexibility than Americans. Americans scored higher on a measure of work pressure than Russians, but Russians reported higher levels of tension on the ISS than Americans. There were no significant changes in levels of emotion and group interpersonal climate over time. Specifically, there was no evidence for a general worsening of mood and cohesion after the halfway point of the missions, an occurrence some have called the 3rd quarter phenomenon.\n\nOther psychosocial studies involving astronauts and cosmonauts have been conducted. In one, an analysis of speech patterns as well as subjective attitudes and personal values were measured in both on-orbit space crews and people working in space analog environments. The researchers found that, over time, these isolated groups showed decreases in the scope and content of their communications and a filtering in what they said to outside personnel, which was termed psychological closing. Crew members interacted less with some mission control personnel than others, perceiving them as opponents. This tendency of some crew members to become more egocentric was called autonomization. They also found that crew members became more cohesive by spending time together (for example, joint birthday celebrations), and that the presence of subgroups and outliers (e.g., scapegoats) negatively affected group cohesion. In a study of 12 ISS cosmonauts, researchers reported that personal values generally remained stable, with those related to the fulfillment of professional activities and good social relationships being rated most highly.\n\nAnother study examined potentially disruptive cultural issues affecting space missions in a survey of 75 astronauts and cosmonauts and 106 mission control personnel. The subjects rated coordination difficulties between the different space organizations involved with the missions as the biggest problem. Other problems included communication misunderstandings and differences in work management styles.\n\nIn a study of 11 cosmonauts regarding their opinions of possible psychological and interpersonal problems that might occur during a Mars expedition, researchers found several factors to be rated highly: isolation and monotony, distance-related communication delays with the Earth, leadership issues, differences in space agency management styles, and cultural misunderstandings within international crews.\n\nIn a survey of 576 employees of the European Space Agency (ESA), a link was found between cultural diversity and the ability of people to interact with one another. Especially important were factors related to leadership and decision-making.\n\nAnother study looked at content analysis of personal journals from ten ISS astronauts that were oriented around a number of issues that had behavioral implications. Findings included that 88% of the entries dealt with the following categories: Work, Outside Communications, Adjustment, Group Interaction, Recreation/Leisure, Equipment, Events, Organization/Management, Sleep, and Food. In general, the crew members reported that their life in space was not as difficult as they expected prior to launch, despite a 20% increase in interpersonal problems during the second half of the missions. It was recommended that future crew members be allowed to control their individual schedules as much as possible.\n\nA number of psychiatric problems have been reported during on-orbit space missions. Most common are adjustment reactions to the novelty of being in space, with symptoms generally including transient anxiety or depression. Psychosomatic reactions also have occurred, where anxiety and other emotional states are experienced physically as somatic symptoms. Problems related to major mood and thought disorders (e.g., manic-depression, schizophrenia) have not been reported during space missions. This likely is due to the fact that crew members have been screened psychiatrically for constitutional predispositions to these conditions before launch, so the likelihood of these illnesses developing on-orbit is low.\n\nPost-mission personality changes and emotional problems have affected some returning space travelers. These have included anxiety, depression, alcohol abuse, and marital readjustment difficulties that in some cases have necessitated the use of psychotherapy and psychoactive medications. Some astronauts have had difficulties adjusting to the resultant fame and media demands that followed their missions, and similar problems are likely to occur in the future following high-profile expeditions, such as a trip to Mars.\n\nAsthenization, a syndrome that includes fatigue, irritability, emotional lability, attention and concentration difficulties, and appetite and sleep problems, has been reported to commonly occur in cosmonauts by Russian flight surgeons. It has been observed to evolve in clearly defined stages. It is conceptualized as an adjustment reaction to being in space that is different from neurasthenia, a related neurotic condition seen on Earth.\n\nThe validity of asthenization has been questioned by some in the West, in part because classical neurasthenia is not currently recognized in the American psychiatric nomenclature, whereas the illness is accepted in Russia and China. Retrospective analysis of the data from the Soviet \"Space Biology and Medicine III\" Mir Space Station study (see ) has shown that the findings did not support the presence of the asthenization syndrome when crew member on-orbit scores were compared with those from a prototype of asthenization developed by Russian space experts.\n\nIsolated and confined environments may also produce positive experiences.\nA survey of 39 astronauts and cosmonauts found that all of the respondents reported positive changes as a result of flying in space. One particular measure stood out: Perceptions of Earth in general were highly positive, while gaining a stronger appreciation of the Earth’s beauty had the highest mean change score.\n\nSince the early 1990s, research began on the salutogenic (or growth-enhancing) aspects of space travel. One study analyzed the published memoirs of 125 space travelers. After returning from space, the subjects reported higher levels on categories of Universalism (i.e., greater appreciation for other people and nature), Spirituality, and Power. Russian space travelers scored higher in Achievement and Universalism and lower in Enjoyment than Americans. Overall, these results suggest that traveling in space is a positive and growth-enhancing experience for many of its individual participants.\n\nResearch to date into human psychological and sociological effects based on on-orbit near-Earth experiences may have limited generalizability to a long-distance, multi-year space expedition, such as a mission to a near-Earth asteroid (which currently is being considered by NASA) or to Mars. In the case of Mars, new stressors will be introduced due to the great distances involved in journeying to the Red Planet. For example, the crew members will be relatively autonomous from terrestrial mission control and will need to plan their work and deal with problems on their own.\nThey are expected to experience significant isolation as the Earth becomes an insignificant bluish-green dot in the heavens, the so-called Earth-out-of-view phenomenon.\nFrom the surface of Mars, there will be two-way communication delays with family and friends back home of up to 44 minutes, as well as low-bandwidth communication channels, adding to the sense of isolation.\n\nFrom June 2010 to November 2011, a unique ground-based space analog study took place that was called the Mars 500 Program. Mars 500 was designed to simulate a 520-day round-trip expedition to Mars, including periods of time where the crew functioned under high autonomy conditions and experienced communication delays with outside monitoring personnel in mission control. Six men were confined in a simulator that was located at the Institute for Biomedical Problems in Moscow. The lower floor consisted of living and laboratory modules for the international crew, and the upper floor contained a mock-up of the Mars surface on which the crew conducted simulated geological and other planetary activities.\nDuring a 105-day pilot study in 2009 that preceded this mission, the mood and group interactions of a six-man Russian-European crew, as well as the relationships of this crew with outside mission control personnel, were studied. The study found that high work autonomy (where the crew members planned their own schedules) was well received by the crews, mission goals were accomplished, and there were no adverse effects,\nwhich echoed positive autonomy findings in other space analog settings. During the high autonomy period, crew member mood and self-direction were reported as being improved, but mission control personnel reported more anxiety and work role confusion. Despite scoring lower in work pressure overall, the Russian crew members reported a greater rise in work pressure from low to high autonomy than the European participants.\n\nSeveral psychosocial studies were conducted during the actual 520-day mission. There were changes in crew member time perception, evidence for the displacement of crew tension to mission control, and decreases in crew member needs and requests during high autonomy, which suggested that they had adapted to this condition.\nThe crew exhibited increased homogeneity in values and more reluctance to express negative interpersonal feelings over time, which suggested a tendency toward \"groupthink\". Additionally, the crew members experienced increased feelings of loneliness and perceived lower support from colleagues over time, which had a negative effect on cognitive adaptation. A number of individual differences in terms of sleep pattern, mood, and conflicts with mission control were found and reported using techniques such as wrist actigraphy, the psychomotor vigilance test, and various subjective measures.\nA general decrease in group collective time from the outbound phase to the return phase of the simulated flight to Mars was identified. This was accomplished by the evaluation of fixed video recordings of crew behavior during breakfasts through variations in personal actions, visual interactions, and facial expressions.\n\nThere are a number of psychosocial and psychiatric issues that may affect crew members during an expeditionary mission to Mars. In terms of selection, only a subset of all astronaut candidates will be willing to be away from family and friends for the two- to three-year mission, so the pool of possible crew members will be restricted and possibly skewed psychologically in ways that cannot be foreseen. Little is known about the physical and psychological effect of long-duration microgravity and the high radiation that occurs in deep space. In addition, on Mars the crew members will be subjected to a gravity field that is only 38 percent of Earth gravity, and the effect of this situation on their physical and emotional well-being is unknown. Given the long distances involved, the crew must function autonomously and develop their own work schedules and solve operational emergencies themselves. They must also be able to deal with medical and psychiatric emergencies, such as physical trauma due to accidents as well as suicidal or psychotic thinking due to stress and depression. Basic life support and staples such as water and fuel will need to be provided from resources on Mars and its atmosphere. There will be a great deal of leisure time (especially during the outbound and return phases of the mission), and occupying it meaningfully and flexibly may be a challenge.\n\nFurthermore, Kanas points out that during on-orbit or lunar missions a number of interventions have been implemented successfully to support crew member psychological well-being. These have included family conferences in real time (i.e., with no appreciable delays), frequent consultations with mission control, and the sending of gifts and favorite foods on resupply ships to enhance morale. Such actions have helped to provide stimulation and counter the effects of isolation, loneliness, asthenization, and limited social contact. But with the delays in crew-ground communication and the inability to send needed resupplies in a timely manner due to the vast distances between the habitats on Mars and Earth, the currently used Earth-based support strategies will be seriously constrained, and new strategies will be needed. Finally, since gazing at the Earth’s beauty has been rated as the major positive factor of being in space, the experience of seeing the Earth as an insignificant dot in the heavens may enhance the sense of isolation and produce increased feelings of homesickness, depression and irritability. This may be ameliorated by having a telescope on board with which to view the Earth, thus helping the crew feel more connected with home.\n"}
{"id": "25406675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25406675", "title": "Public Health Foundation of India", "text": "Public Health Foundation of India\n\nThe Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), is an autonomous foundation located in New Delhi, India. The foundation was created as a public-private initiative and launched in 2006 with the aim of enhancing the capacity of public health professionals in the country over five to seven years. The PHFI initiative was collaboratively developed over two years under the leadership of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Prof. K. Srinath Reddy (President, PHFI and former Head of the Department of Cardiology, AIIMS).\n\nIndia faces a severe shortfall of public health professionals, and capacity building efforts are urgently required to address its emerging public health challenges.\n\nPublic health has evolved as a multi-disciplinary science which deals with the determinants and defence of health at the population level so as to impact upon and improve the health of individuals in that population. It aims to focus on and influence the multiple determinants of health (economic, social, behavioural and biological) and to undertake and evaluate multi-sectoral interventions to positively influence those determinants. It also involves the study of health systems, their structure and management practices as channels for delivery of health services for all sections of the population.\n\nAs India experiences a rapid health transition, it is confronted both by an unfinished agenda of eliminating infectious diseases, nutritional deficiencies, unsafe pregnancies and the challenge of escalating epidemics of non-communicable diseases. This composite threat to the nation’s health and development needs a concerted public health response that can ensure delivery of cost-effective interventions for health promotion, disease prevention and affordable diagnostic and the therapeutic health care.\n\nThis broad ambit makes it essential that education and training in public health is multi-disciplinary in content and that the pathways of public health action are multi-sectoral. Public health education must include subject areas like epidemiology, biostatistics, behavioural sciences, health economics, health services management, environmental health, health inequities and human rights, gender and health, health promotion and communication, ethics of health care and research. These diverse disciplines need to establish synergistic links in designing and delivering health care in prioritized sectors. It is also essential to advance a trans-disciplinary research agenda which informs policy and empowers programs. There is a constant need for surveillance, monitoring and evaluation. The interventions proposed need to be evidence based, context specific and resource sensitive. Thus public health should emphasize health promotion, disease prevention and cost effective as well as equitable health care through collective actions at various levels (viz. macro, public and private) to address the underlying causes of diseases, and foster conditions in which communities or population groups may lead healthy lives.\n\nThe Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) was conceptualised as a response to growing concern over the emerging public health challenges in India. It recognizes the fact that meeting the shortfall of health professionals is imperative for a sustained and holistic response to the public health concerns in the country, which in turn requires health care to be addressed not only from the scientific perspective of what works, but also from the social perspective of who needs it the most. The PHFI concept was developed over two years and was collaboratively evolved through consultation with multiple constituencies including Indian and international academia, State and Central Governments in India, multi & bi-lateral agencies, civil society groups in India.\n\nThe Public Health Foundation of India is an autonomously governed public private partnership launched by the Honourable Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh, on 28 March 2006 at New Delhi. The Foundation is managed by a fully empowered, independent, governing board that is represented by multiple constituencies.\n\nMandate\n\nThe PHFI is working towards building public health capacity by:\n\nThe Board includes senior government officials, eminent Indian and International academic and scientific leaders, civil society representatives and industry leaders. The chairman of the board is N.R. Narayana Murthy. Board members include: Montek Singh Ahluwalia (Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission of India), Amartya Sen (Nobel Laureate) and others. The President of the Foundation is Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist who brings in a broad range of public health experience at national and global levels.\n\nCurrently PHFI financially supported by national and international agencies namely Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, The Deshpande Foundation, The Nand and Jeet Khemka Foundation, Vinod and Neeru Khosla, AKM Systems Private Ltd, HCL Corporation Ltd, Rohini Nilekeni, The Ranbaxy Promoter Group and Reliance Industries Limited.\n\nPHFI and IIPHs collaborate with range of institutions to improve public health in India and influence global public health. In India almost 12 state governments, including Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of Science and Technology and Planning Commission. International, with AusAID, USAID, European Commission, DFID and UN agencies (WHO, World Bank, UN World Food Programme and UNICEF). The concept enjoys wide support nationally and internationally. PHFI has academic and research institute linkages of more than 30 international schools of Public Health from around the world.\n\nPHFI in the last five years grown in length and breath and has set up five Centres of Excellence(CoE) to raise awareness and strengthen research, training and education in the high priority area of public health in India.\nIn addition to areas mentioned above, PHFI plans to launch CoEs in the areas of Emerging and other Communicable Diseases, Public Health Nutrition, Health Systems and Policy, Maternal and Child Health and Tribal Health.\n\nPHFI has established five Indian Institutes of Public Health (IIPHs) in Bhubaneswar, Delhi, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad and Shillong. The institutes are aimed at being research and education institutes focusing on public health. Other than IIPH Shillong, which does not offer academic programmes yet the institutes offer one-year Post Graduate Diploma in Public Health Management (PGDPHM). Some of the institutes offer other postgraduate programmes, affiliated to various local institutes. They also offer distance learning courses.\n\nIn 2015 Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar was the first IIPH to be granted autonomous university status through \"The Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar Act, 2015\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55281907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55281907", "title": "Race-based traumatic stress", "text": "Race-based traumatic stress\n\nRace-based traumatic stress is the traumatic response to stress following a racial encounter. Robert T. Carter’s (2007) theory of race-based traumatic stress implies that there are individuals of color who experience racially charged discrimination as traumatic, and often generate responses similar to post-traumatic stress. Race-based traumatic stress combines theories of stress, trauma and race-based discrimination to describe a particular response to negative racial encounters. \n\nDespite the limited research that examines race-based traumatic stress specifically, trauma research suggests that an individual’s response to a stressor is highly dependent on that person’s perception of the stressor; what one person may experience as traumatic, another person may not experience as such. These differing responses have been found to be strongly associated with each individual’s ability to cope with the said stressor. According to Carter, a professor at Columbia University, race-based traumatic stress is an individual’s response to racial discrimination as traumatic or outside of their ability to cope. Race-based traumatic stress can be experienced both directly and indirectly and can occur on an interpersonal level, institutional level, or cultural level. As such, research indicates that race-based traumatic stress can be demonstrated as a number of negative outcomes, including psychopathological symptoms, social inequities, and internalized racial oppression.\n\nResearch has indicated that children, as well as adults, can experience and be impacted by the reaches of race-based traumatic stress. Through direct experience from peers and/or authority figures, as well as indirectly through media exposure and/or bearing witness to the racial discrimination of their parents, research suggests children of color are particularly vulnerable to race-based traumatic stress.\n\nDespite the popular understanding that race is a socially-based construct, research indicates that it has critical social implications and plays a role in the way individuals navigate society. Race-based traumatic stress is viewed as a consequence of racially motivated discrimination, exclusion, and unjust treatment. Racial discrimination can be interpersonal, institutional/structural, and/or cultural. At the interpersonal level, race-based traumatic stress occurs when an individual directly experiences race-based prejudice from another person. Institutional racial discrimination occurs at the hands of trusted or imperative social structures of power in society that for example, may withhold services or resources from people of color. Lastly, on a cultural level, racial discrimination occurs when non-Eurocentric cultures are devalued or viewed as inferior.\n\nAdditionally, research indicates that racial discrimination can be experienced both overtly and covertly. On an overt level, people of color are targeted in an intentionally blatant manner due to their racial identities. In contrast, covert racial discrimination, often termed microaggressions, often come in the form of subtle messages, whether intentional or not, and demonstrate malicious, invalidating, or disparaging meaning for people of color. With the frequency at which race-based discrimination is found to occur, on both overt and covert levels, some individuals may experience re-traumatization.\n\nThe Race-Based Traumatic Stress Model (RBTSM) is a model which outlines the different emotional responses individuals have following race-based encounters. Despite being linked to a variety of outcomes including psychopathology, Carter (2007) believes this response is more of an emotional injury than a pathological one. The model emphasizes Carter’s distinction between two forms of racism: discrimination and harassment. It follows that discrimination-based racism is linked to hyperarousal and hypervigilance while consequences of harassment-based racism, such as complex emotional reactions, tend to have a long-lasting impact.\n\nResearch indicates that different forms of racial discrimination, such as interpersonal, institutional, and cultural are often associated with specific types of outcomes in people of color. Interpersonal racial discrimination, for example, has been found to have more of an effect at the individual level, often demonstrated in mental health symptoms such as trauma, anxiety, depression, stress, and even physiological symptoms such as hypertension. Racial discrimination at the institutional level has been found to result in social inequities for people of color such as higher rates of incarceration, health disparities, and educational difficulties. Cultural racial discrimination has been found to be associated with internalized racism, often resulting in individuals devaluing their own culture in ways such as denouncing their cultural heritage and values and/or internalizing negative stereotypical beliefs associated with their own racial group. Additionally, research indicates that the internalization of racial oppression can lead to feelings of shame and malice. However, the experience of racial discrimination is complex and its various forms often overlap and lead to a number of psychological, social, and physiological outcomes.\n\nChildren are particularly vulnerable to the detrimental effects of race-based traumatic stress, as research indicates that oftentimes they lack the coping strategies needed to overcome these experiences. Research indicates that children can be affected by these stressors both indirectly and directly, through experiences with racially charged interactions or through intergenerational transmission. Racial victimization can result in cross-generational trauma; where children can witness their caregivers either experience race-based discrimination or children can experience the effects of the race-based discrimination for their caregivers. Caregiver’s experience of race-based traumatic stress can be displayed in actions such as increased substance use, an increase in delinquency or violence which can lead to incarceration, and mental health difficulties which can impair attachment and parenting strategies. Research suggests that the stressors associated with racial discrimination are chronic and impact multiple areas of development for children such as cognitive, biological and psychosocial.\n\nResearch implies that children can experience race-based stressors in the form of bullying through verbal comments about their racial identity, physically in the form of violence, or interpersonally, through acts against them such as being excluded from activities. Children can experience verbal attacks that can include teasing concerning distinct aspects of their identity such as physical appearance, beliefs, cultural aspects, accents, language barriers, and acculturation levels. In addition to experiences with peers, children can be targeted by negative interactions with authority figures such as teachers or school staff questioning their capabilities or making verbalizations discouraging their goals.\n\nGiven that children have limited coping strategies and cognitive resources to deal with race-based discrimination, research suggests that these experiences can be internalized as traumatic and associated with the development of mental health disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In addition, it is indicated that discrimination experienced in childhood may lead to low self-esteem, difficulties with academic performance, and increased externalizing behaviors such as acting out, defiance, anger, mistrust, and internalizing behaviors such as depression or anxiety.\n\nFurthermore, recent findings suggest that children who experience race-based discrimination from peers have increased difficulty with establishing a confident personality, as social interactions and social categories affect their self-esteem and overall self-view. Peer interactions and establishing a social self is an aspect of development that is significant during childhood, therefore experiences with peers can have a significant impact. Getting negative verbalization from either peers or authority figures can lead to internalization of the stereotypes and beliefs about their own race and can lead to difficulties with accepting oneself and adopting beliefs that they are not capable of accomplishing goals. Research suggests that these experiences can impact their self-esteem and overall worldview.\n\nThe lack of research on race-based traumatic stress is in part due to the fact that it is difficult to recognize or assess because there is no clear link associated with experiencing racial discrimination and the development of psychological difficulties in response to the racial encounter. Currently, no diagnoses account for trauma associated with race-based interactions and experiences, and limited assessments accurately assess for experiences of racial discrimination. The Race-Based Traumatic Stress Symptom Scale (RBTSSS) is an assessment that has been developed in order to address this lack of appropriate assessments. The RBTSSS utilizes open-ended questions related to 3 experiences of racism that each individual has encountered. Individuals are then prompted to identify whether the experience was emotionally painful, sudden, and not in their control. Individuals choose one of these experiences and address questions related to feelings after the event, which fall within the following subscales; Anger, Depression, Intrusion, Hypervigilance, Physical, Low self-esteem, Avoidance. Use of tools such as the RBTSSS is recommended in order to address distress associated with race-based traumatic stress.\n\nThe little research on race-based traumatic stress suggests that treatment can focus on the symptoms associated with the experiences such as hyperarousal, low self-esteem, hyper vigilance, substance use, and engagement in risky-behavior. Furthermore, highlighting protective factors, such as support from friends and family, positive outlook, and engagement in extracurricular activities can increase feelings of being included in the community. Research suggests that future goals for improved treatment of race-based traumatic stress can include specialized training for mental health professionals to increase the professional’s capabilities of having discussions about race and discrimination and exploring the impact on each individual’s life. Furthermore, research indicates that in addition to addressing the common symptoms associated with mental health disorders, clinicians can focus on exploring and addressing the direct impact of race-based traumatic stress.\n"}
{"id": "35993194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35993194", "title": "Radiation-induced cancer", "text": "Radiation-induced cancer\n\nUp to 10% of invasive cancers are related to radiation exposure, including both ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation. Additionally, the vast majority of non-invasive cancers are non-melanoma skin cancers caused by non-ionizing ultraviolet radiation. Ultraviolet's position on the electromagnetic spectrum is on the boundary between ionizing and non-ionizing radiation. Non-ionizing radio frequency radiation from mobile phones, electric power transmission, and other similar sources have been described as a possible carcinogen by the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer, but the link remains unproven.\n\nExposure to ionizing radiation is known to increase the future incidence of cancer, particularly leukemia. The mechanism by which this occurs is well understood, but quantitative models predicting the level of risk remain controversial. The most widely accepted model posits that the incidence of cancers due to ionizing radiation increases linearly with effective radiation dose at a rate of 5.5% per sievert. If the linear model is correct, then natural background radiation is the most hazardous source of radiation to general public health, followed by medical imaging as a close second.\n\nAccording to the prevalent model, any radiation exposure can increase the risk of cancer. Typical contributors to such risk include natural background radiation, medical procedures, occupational exposures, nuclear accidents, and many others. Some major contributors are discussed below.\n\nRadon is responsible for the worldwide majority of the mean public exposure to ionizing radiation. It is often the single largest contributor to an individual's background radiation dose, and is the most variable from location to location. Radon gas from natural sources can accumulate in buildings, especially in confined areas such as attics, and basements. It can also be found in some spring waters and hot springs.\n\nEpidemiological evidence shows a clear link between lung cancer and high concentrations of radon, with 21,000 radon-induced U.S. lung cancer deaths per year—second only to cigarette smoking—according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Thus in geographic areas where radon is present in heightened concentrations, radon is considered a significant indoor air contaminant.\n\nResidential exposure to radon gas has similar cancer risks as passive smoking. Radiation is a more potent source of cancer when it is combined with other cancer-causing agents, such as radon gas exposure plus smoking tobacco.\n\nIn industrialized countries, Medical imaging contributes almost as much radiation dose to the public as natural background radiation. Collective dose to Americans from medical imaging grew by a factor of six from 1990 to 2006, mostly due to growing use of 3D scans that impart much more dose per procedure than traditional radiographs. CT scans alone, which account for half the medical imaging dose to the public, are estimated to be responsible for 0.4% of current cancers in the United States, and this may increase to as high as 1.5-2% with 2007 rates of CT usage; however, this estimate is disputed. Other nuclear medicine techniques involve the injection of radioactive pharmaceuticals directly into the bloodstream, and radiotherapy treatments deliberately deliver lethal doses (on a cellular level) to tumors and surrounding tissues.\n\nIt has been estimated that CT scans performed in the US in 2007 alone will result in 29,000 new cancer cases in future years. This estimate is criticized by the American College of Radiology (ACR), which maintains that the life expectancy of CT scanned patients is not that of the general population and that the model of calculating cancer is based on total-body radiation exposure and thus faulty.\n\nIn accordance with ICRP recommendations, most regulators permit nuclear energy workers to receive up to 20 times more radiation dose than is permitted for the general public. Higher doses are usually permitted when responding to an emergency. The majority of workers are routinely kept well within regulatory limits, while a few essential technicians will routinely approach their maximum each year. Accidental overexposures beyond regulatory limits happen globally several times a year. Astronauts on long missions are at higher risk of cancer, see cancer and spaceflight.\n\nSome occupations are exposed to radiation without being classed as nuclear energy workers. Airline crews receive occupational exposures from cosmic radiation because of reduced atmospheric shielding at altitude. Mine workers receive occupational exposures to radon, especially in uranium mines. Anyone working in a granite building, such as the US Capitol, is likely to receive a dose from natural uranium in the granite.\n\nNuclear accidents can have dramatic consequences to their surroundings, but their global impact on cancer is less than that of natural and medical exposures.\n\nThe most severe nuclear accident is probably the Chernobyl disaster. In addition to conventional fatalities and acute radiation syndrome fatalities, nine children died of thyroid cancer, and it is estimated that there may be up to 4,000 excess cancer deaths among the approximately 600,000 most highly exposed people. Of the 100 million curies (4 exabecquerels) of radioactive material, the short lived radioactive isotopes such as I Chernobyl released were initially the most dangerous. Due to their short half-lives of 5 and 8 days they have now decayed, leaving the more long-lived Cs (with a half-life of 30.07 years) and Sr (with a half-life of 28.78 years) as main dangers.\n\nIn March 2011, an earthquake and tsunami caused damage that led to explosions and partial meltdowns at the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant in Japan. Significant release of radioactive material took place following hydrogen explosions at three reactors, as technicians tried to pump in seawater to keep the uranium fuel rods cool, and bled radioactive gas from the reactors in order to make room for the seawater. Concerns about the large-scale release of radioactivity resulted in 20 km exclusion zone being set up around the power plant and people within the 20–30 km zone being advised to stay indoors. On March 24, 2011, Japanese officials announced that \"radioactive iodine-131 exceeding safety limits for infants had been detected at 18 water-purification plants in Tokyo and five other prefectures\".\n\nOther serious radiation accidents include the Kyshtym disaster (estimated 49 to 55 cancer deaths), and the Windscale fire (an estimated 33 cancer deaths).\n\nThe Transit 5BN-3 SNAP 9A accident. On April 21, 1964, the satellite containing plutonium burnt up in the atmosphere. Dr. John Gofman claimed it increased the rate of lung cancer worldwide. He said \"Although it is impossible to estimate the number of lung cancers induced by the accident, there is no question that the dispersal of so much Plutonium238 would add to the number of lung cancer diagnosed over many subsequent decades.\"\n\nCancer is a stochastic effect of radiation, meaning that the probability of occurrence increases with effective radiation dose, but the severity of the cancer is independent of dose. The speed at which cancer advances, the prognosis, the degree of pain, and every other feature of the disease are not functions of the radiation dose to which the person is exposed. This contrasts with the deterministic effects of acute radiation syndrome which increase in severity with dose above a threshold. Cancer starts with a single cell whose operation is disrupted. Normal cell operation is controlled by the chemical structure of DNA molecules, also called chromosomes.\n\nWhen radiation deposits enough energy in organic tissue to cause ionization, this tends to break molecular bonds, and thus alter the molecular structure of the irradiated molecules. Less energetic radiation, such as visible light, only causes excitation, not ionization, which is usually dissipated as heat with relatively little chemical damage. Ultraviolet light is usually categorized as non-ionizing, but it is actually in an intermediate range that produces some ionization and chemical damage. Hence the carcinogenic mechanism of ultraviolet radiation is similar to that of ionizing radiation.\n\nUnlike chemical or physical triggers for cancer, penetrating radiation hits molecules within cells randomly. Molecules broken by radiation can become highly reactive free radicals that cause further chemical damage. Some of this direct and indirect damage will eventually impact chromosomes and epigenetic factors that control the expression of genes. Cellular mechanisms will repair some of this damage, but some repairs will be incorrect and some chromosome abnormalities will turn out to be irreversible.\n\nDNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are generally accepted to be the most biologically significant lesion by which ionizing radiation causes cancer. In vitro experiments show that ionizing radiation cause DSBs at a rate of 35 DSBs per cell per Gray, and removes a portion of the epigenetic markers of the DNA, which regulate the gene expression. Most of the induced DSBs are repaired within 24h after exposure, however, 25% of the repaired strands are repaired incorrectly and about 20% of fibroblast cells that were exposed to 200mGy died within 4 days after exposure. A portion of the population possess a flawed DNA repair mechanism, and thus suffer a greater insult due to exposure to radiation.\n\nMajor damage normally results in the cell dying or being unable to reproduce. This effect is responsible for acute radiation syndrome, but these heavily damaged cells cannot become cancerous. Lighter damage may leave a stable, partly functional cell that may be capable of proliferating and eventually developing into cancer, especially if tumor suppressor genes are damaged. The latest research suggests that mutagenic events do not occur immediately after irradiation. Instead, surviving cells appear to have acquired a genomic instability which causes an increased rate of mutations in future generations. The cell will then progress through multiple stages of neoplastic transformation that may culminate into a tumor after years of incubation. The neoplastic transformation can be divided into three major independent stages: morphological changes to the cell, acquisition of cellular immortality (losing normal, life-limiting cell regulatory processes), and adaptations that favor formation of a tumor.\n\nIn some cases, a small radiation dose reduces the impact of a subsequent, larger radiation dose. This has been termed an 'adaptive response' and is related to hypothetical mechanisms of hormesis.\n\nA latent period of decades may elapse between radiation exposure and the detection of cancer. Those cancers that may develop as a result of radiation exposure are indistinguishable from those that occur naturally or as a result of exposure to other carcinogens. Furthermore, National Cancer Institute literature indicates that chemical and physical hazards and lifestyle factors, such as smoking, alcohol consumption, and diet, significantly contribute to many of these same diseases. Evidence from uranium miners suggests that smoking may have a multiplicative, rather than additive, interaction with radiation. Evaluations of radiation's contribution to cancer incidence can only be done through large epidemiological studies with thorough data about all other confounding risk factors.\n\nProlonged exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun can lead to melanoma and other skin malignancies. Clear evidence establishes ultraviolet radiation, especially the non-ionizing medium wave UVB, as the cause of most non-melanoma skin cancers, which are the most common forms of cancer in the world.\n\nSkin cancer may occur following ionizing radiation exposure following a latent period averaging 20 to 40 years. A Chronic radiation keratosis is a precancerous keratotic skin lesion that may arise on the skin many years after exposure to ionizing radiation. Various malignancies may develop, most frequency basal-cell carcinoma followed by squamous-cell carcinoma. Elevated risk is confined to the site of radiation exposure. Several studies have also suggested the possibility of a causal relationship between melanoma and ionizing radiation exposure. The degree of carcinogenic risk arising from low levels of exposure is more contentious, but the available evidence points to an increased risk that is approximately proportional to the dose received. Radiologists and radiographers are among the earliest occupational groups exposed to radiation. It was the observation of the earliest radiologists that led to the recognition of radiation-induced skin cancer—the first solid cancer linked to radiation—in 1902. While the incidence of skin cancer secondary to medical ionizing radiation was higher in the past, there is also some evidence that risks of certain cancers, notably skin cancer, may be increased among more recent medical radiation workers, and this may be related to specific or changing radiologic practices. Available evidence indicates that the excess risk of skin cancer lasts for 45 years or more following irradiation.\n\nCancer is a stochastic effect of radiation, meaning that it only has a probability of occurrence, as opposed to deterministic effects which always happen over a certain dose threshold. The consensus of the nuclear industry, nuclear regulators, and governments, is that the incidence of cancers due to ionizing radiation can be modeled as increasing linearly with effective radiation dose at a rate of 5.5% per sievert. Individual studies, alternate models, and earlier versions of the industry consensus have produced other risk estimates scattered around this consensus model. There is general agreement that the risk is much higher for infants and fetuses than adults, higher for the middle-aged than for seniors, and higher for women than for men, though there is no quantitative consensus about this. This model is widely accepted for external radiation, but its application to internal contamination is disputed. For example, the model fails to account for the low rates of cancer in early workers at Los Alamos National Laboratory who were exposed to plutonium dust, and the high rates of thyroid cancer in children following the Chernobyl accident, both of which were internal exposure events. The European Committee on Radiation Risk calls the ICRP model \"fatally flawed\" when it comes to internal exposure.\n\nRadiation can cause cancer in most parts of the body, in all animals, and at any age, although radiation-induced solid tumors usually take 10–15 years, and can take up to 40 years, to become clinically manifest, and radiation-induced leukemias typically require 2–10 years to appear. Some people, such as those with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome or retinoblastoma, are more susceptible than average to developing cancer from radiation exposure. Children and adolescents are twice as likely to develop radiation-induced leukemia as adults; radiation exposure before birth has ten times the effect.\n\nRadiation exposure can cause cancer in any living tissue, but high-dose whole-body external exposure is most closely associated with leukemia, reflecting the high radiosensitivity of bone marrow. Internal exposures tend to cause cancer in the organs where the radioactive material concentrates, so that radon predominantly causes lung cancer, iodine-131 is most likely to cause thyroid cancer, etc.\n\nThe associations between ionizing radiation exposure and the development of cancer are based primarily on the \"LSS cohort\" of Japanese atomic bomb survivors, the largest human population ever exposed to high levels of ionizing radiation. However this cohort was also exposed to high heat, both from the initial nuclear \"flash\" of infrared light and following the blast due their exposure to the firestorm and general fires that developed in both cities respectively, so the survivors also underwent Hyperthermia therapy to various degrees. Hyperthermia, or heat exposure following irradiation is well known in the field of radiation therapy to markedly increase the severity of free-radical insults to cells following irradiation. Presently however no attempts have been made to cater for this confounding factor, it is not included or corrected for in the dose-response curves for this group.\n\nAdditional data has been collected from recipients of selected medical procedures and the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. There is a clear link (see the UNSCEAR 2000 Report, Volume 2: Effects) between the Chernobyl accident and the unusually large number, approximately 1,800, of thyroid cancers reported in contaminated areas, mostly in children.\n\nFor low levels of radiation, the biological effects are so small they may not be detected in epidemiological studies. Although radiation may cause cancer at high doses and high dose rates, public health data regarding lower levels of exposure, below about 10 mSv (1,000 mrem), are harder to interpret. To assess the health impacts of lower radiation doses, researchers rely on models of the process by which radiation causes cancer; several models that predict differing levels of risk have emerged.\n\nStudies of occupational workers exposed to chronic low levels of radiation, above normal background, have provided mixed evidence regarding cancer and transgenerational effects. Cancer results, although uncertain, are consistent with estimates of risk based on atomic bomb survivors and suggest that these workers do face a small increase in the probability of developing leukemia and other cancers. One of the most recent and extensive studies of workers was published by Cardis, \"et al.\" in 2005 . There is evidence that low level, brief radiation exposures are not harmful.\n\nThe linear dose-response model suggests that any increase in dose, no matter how small, results in an incremental increase in risk. The linear no-threshold model (LNT) hypothesis is accepted by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) and regulators around the world. According to this model, about 1% of the global population develop cancer as a result of natural background radiation at some point in their lifetime. For comparison, 13% of deaths in 2008 are attributed to cancer, so background radiation could plausibly be a small contributor.\n\nMany parties have criticized the ICRP's adoption of the linear no-threshold model for exaggerating the effects of low radiation doses. The most frequently cited alternatives are the “linear quadratic” model and the “hormesis” model. The linear quadratic model is widely viewed in radiotherapy as the best model of cellular survival, and it is the best fit to leukemia data from the LSS cohort.\n\nIn all three cases, the values of alpha and beta must be determined by regression from human exposure data. Laboratory experiments on animals and tissue samples is of limited value. Most of the high quality human data available is from high dose individuals, above 0.1 Sv, so any use of the models at low doses is an extrapolation that might be under-conservative or over-conservative. There is not enough human data available to settle decisively which of these model might be most accurate at low doses. The consensus has been to assume linear no-threshold because it the simplest and most conservative of the three.\n\nRadiation hormesis is the conjecture that a low level of ionizing radiation (i.e., near the level of Earth's natural background radiation) helps \"immunize\" cells against DNA damage from other causes (such as free radicals or larger doses of ionizing radiation), and decreases the risk of cancer. The theory proposes that such low levels activate the body's DNA repair mechanisms, causing higher levels of cellular DNA-repair proteins to be present in the body, improving the body's ability to repair DNA damage. This assertion is very difficult to prove in humans (using, for example, statistical cancer studies) because the effects of very low ionizing radiation levels are too small to be statistically measured amid the \"noise\" of normal cancer rates.\n\nThe idea of radiation hormesis is considered unproven by regulatory bodies. If the hormesis model turns out to be accurate, it is conceivable that current regulations based on the LNT model will prevent or limit the hormetic effect, and thus have a negative impact on health.\n\nOther non-linear effects have been observed, particularly for internal doses. For example, iodine-131 is notable in that high doses of the isotope are sometimes less dangerous than low doses, since they tend to kill thyroid tissues that would otherwise become cancerous as a result of the radiation. Most studies of very-high-dose I-131 for treatment of Graves disease have failed to find any increase in thyroid cancer, even though there is linear increase in thyroid cancer risk with I-131 absorption at moderate doses.\n\nLow-dose exposures, such as living near a nuclear power plant or a coal-fired power plant, which has higher emissions than nuclear plants, are generally believed to have no or very little effect on cancer development, barring accidents. Greater concerns include radon in buildings and overuse of medical imaging.\n\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) recommends limiting artificial irradiation of the public to an average of 1 mSv (0.001 Sv) of effective dose per year, not including medical and occupational exposures. For comparison, radiation levels inside the US capitol building are 0.85 mSv/yr, close to the regulatory limit, because of the uranium content of the granite structure. According to the ICRP model, someone who spent 20 years inside the capitol building would have an extra one in a thousand chance of getting cancer, over and above any other existing risk. (20 yr X 0.85 mSv/yr X 0.001 Sv/mSv X 5.5%/Sv = ~0.1%) That \"existing risk\" is much higher; an average American would have a one in ten chance of getting cancer during this same 20-year period, even without any exposure to artificial radiation.\n\nInternal contamination due to ingestion, inhalation, injection, or absorption is a particular concern because the radioactive material may stay in the body for an extended period of time, \"committing\" the subject to accumulating dose long after the initial exposure has ceased, albeit at low dose rates. Over a hundred people, including Eben Byers and the radium girls, have received committed doses in excess of 10 Gy and went on to die of cancer or natural causes, whereas the same amount of acute external dose would invariably cause an earlier death by acute radiation syndrome.\n\nInternal exposure of the public is controlled by regulatory limits on the radioactive content of food and water. These limits are typically expressed in becquerel/kilogram, with different limits set for each contaminant.\n\nAlthough radiation was discovered in late 19th century, the dangers of radioactivity and of radiation were not immediately recognized. Acute effects of radiation were first observed in the use of X-rays when Wilhelm Röntgen intentionally subjected his fingers to X-rays in 1895. He published his observations concerning the burns that developed, though he attributed them to ozone rather than to X-rays. His injuries healed later.\n\nThe genetic effects of radiation, including the effects on cancer risk, were recognized much later. In 1927 Hermann Joseph Muller published research showing genetic effects, and in 1946 was awarded the Nobel prize for his findings. Radiation was soon linked to bone cancer in the radium dial painters, but this was not confirmed until large-scale animal studies after World War II. The risk was then quantified through long-term studies of atomic bomb survivors.\n\nBefore the biological effects of radiation were known, many physicians and corporations had begun marketing radioactive substances as patent medicine and radioactive quackery. Examples were radium enema treatments, and radium-containing waters to be drunk as tonics. Marie Curie spoke out against this sort of treatment, warning that the effects of radiation on the human body were not well understood. Curie later died of aplastic anemia, not cancer. Eben Byers, a famous American socialite, died of multiple cancers in 1932 after consuming large quantities of radium over several years; his death drew public attention to dangers of radiation. By the 1930s, after a number of cases of bone necrosis and death in enthusiasts, radium-containing medical products had nearly vanished from the market.\n\nIn the United States, the experience of the so-called Radium Girls, where thousands of radium-dial painters contracted oral cancers, popularized the warnings of occupational health associated with radiation hazards. Robley D. Evans, at MIT, developed the first standard for permissible body burden of radium, a key step in the establishment of nuclear medicine as a field of study. With the development of nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons in the 1940s, heightened scientific attention was given to the study of all manner of radiation effects.\n"}
{"id": "49549438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49549438", "title": "Rafael Moreno Valle", "text": "Rafael Moreno Valle\n\nRafael Moreno Valle (August 13, 1917 – February 13, 2016) was a Mexican military physician and politician. A member of PRI, he served as the Governor of Puebla from 1969 to 1974, as well as the Secretary of Health from 1964 to 1968 under President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz. He was also a founding member of the Sociedad Mexicana de Traumatología y Ortopedia.\n\nMoreno was the grandfather of Rafael Moreno Valle Rosas, who has served as the Governor of Puebla since 2011.\n\nMoreno Valle was born in the city of Atlixco, Puebla, on August 13, 1917. He completed his early schooling in Atlixco. He graduated from Escuela Médico Militar, the Mexican Army medical school, in 1940. He then worked at the Carrie Tingley Hospital in the U.S. state of New Mexico from 1941 to 1942. He then became the first Mexican to serve as a chief resident at Charity Hospital in New Orleans, Louisiana. He studied at Tulane University, beginning in 1945, where he specialized on orthopedics.\n\nMoreno Valle taught as an adjunct profession of Trauma and Orthopedics at the Escuela Médico Militar, as well as the Escuela Militar de Enfermería. He was appointed the director of the Hospital Central Militar Mexico in 1946.< In 1952, he rose to the rank of brigadier general.\n\nIn 1958, Moreno was elected to the Senate of the Republic from the state of Puebla. He served in the XLIV and XLV Legislatures of Mexico from 1958 to 1964. Moreno Valle was appointed federal Secretary of Health under President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz from 1964 to 1968.\n\nMoreno Valle, a member of the ruling PRI party, served as the Governor of Puebla from 1969 to 1972.\n\nIn 2015, the National Public Health Council of Mexico awarded Moreno Valle the Mérito Médico Guillermo Soberón Acevedo de Desarrollo de Instituciones award. That same year, the Hospital de Traumatología y Ortopedia of Puebla added his name to the institution in recognition of his service to the hospital.\n\nRafael Moreno Valle died on February 13, 2016, at his home in the Chimalistac neighborhood of Mexico City at the age of 98.\n"}
{"id": "38375564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38375564", "title": "Ratio of fatty acids in different foods", "text": "Ratio of fatty acids in different foods\n\nThe biological effects of the ω-3 and ω-6 fatty acids are mediated by their mutual interactions, but it is unclear whether the dietary ratio of omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids is important for human health.\n\nIt has been claimed that among hunter-gatherer populations, omega-3 fats and omega-6 fats are typically consumed in roughly a 1:1 ratio. At one extreme of the spectrum of hunter-gatherer diets, the Greenland Inuit, prior to the late Twentieth Century, consumed a diet in which omega-6s and omega-3s were consumed in a 1:2 ratio, thanks to a diet rich in cold-water fish (which are a rich source of omega-3s) and completely devoid of omega-6-rich seed oils.\n\nTo date, \"no one knows what the optimal ratio in the diet is for these two families of fats.\" Susan Allport writes that the current ratio in Japan is associated with a very low incidence of heart and other diseases. A dietary ratio of 4:1 produces almost a 1:1 ratio of highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs) in cell membranes.\"\n\nAndrew Stoll, who advocates the consumption of the two fats in a 1:1 ratio, states, \"Once in the body, omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids follow parallel pathways, continually competing with each other for chemical conversion to various structures and molecules inside and outside the cells. Given this mechanism, it makes sense that the two fats might be required in approximately equal amounts.\"\n\nBoth Stoll and Allport assert that present-day diets in the developed world have departed dramatically from this ratio. It has been estimated that in developed countries, the ratio of Omega-6s to Omega-3s is closer to 15:1 Another estimate is that \"[t]he diet consumed by the typical American tends to contain 14 - 25 times more omega-6 fatty acids than omega-3 fatty acids.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54171772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54171772", "title": "Rice bran solubles", "text": "Rice bran solubles\n\nRice bran solubles are a nutritional product derived from the bran shavings produced as brown rice is converted into white rice. The shavings are usually discarded or used for animal feed. In Japan, they are used in some traditional pickling recipes. To produce rice bran solubles, the bran shavings are heat treated to prolong shelf-life and then enzymatically extracted to collect water-soluble components.\n\nRice bran solubles are used as a nutritional supplement. The supplement is sometimes called tocos because of its high content of tocopherols (vitamin E). Rice bran solubles contains about 15-40% fat, 0-25% dietary fiber, 0-15% protein, and 25-80% carbohydrates.\n\nConcerns have been raised about the levels of arsenic in rice bran solubles. Rice naturally accumulates arsenic from the soil as it grows, with rice bran having higher levels than white rice. One study found that rice bran solubles contain even higher concentrations of arsenic. Consumption of products at the manufacturers recommended rate would provide 0.012-0.038 mg of arsenic, above the maximum level of 0.01 mg level considered safe.\n"}
{"id": "35973887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35973887", "title": "Right to Food Guidelines", "text": "Right to Food Guidelines\n\nThe Voluntary Guidelines to support the Progressive Realization of the Right to Adequate Food in the Context of National Food Security, also known as the Right to Food Guidelines, is a document adopted by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in 2004, with the aim of guiding states to implement the right to food. It is not legally binding, but directed to states' obligations to the right to food under international law. In specific, it is directed towards States Parties to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and to States that still have to ratify it. \n\nIn 1945, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is founded.\n\nIn 1996, the FAO organises the 1996 World Food Summit, in Rome. It requested that the right to food be given a more concrete and operational content. This resulted in the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World Food Summit Plan of Action.\n\n\"We pledge our political will and our common and national commitment to achieving food security for all and to an ongoing effort to eradicate hunger in all countries, with an immediate view to reducing the number of undernourished people to half their present level no later than 2015.\"\nIn 1999, Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted General Comment No.12 ‘The Right to Adequate Food’ and described the various State obligations derived from the ICESCR regarding the right to food. It places three types of obligation on States Parties: the obligation to respect, to protect and to fulfil the right to food (which includes the obligations to facilitate and to provide).\n\nIn 2002, at the World Food Summit in June, the FAO adopted the calling for the establishment of an intergovernmental working group to prepare a set of guidelines on the implementation of the right to food. In November, the FAO Council set up an Intergovernmental Working Group which drafts the Right to Food Guidelines.\n\nIn 2004 the Right to Food Guidelines are adopted by 187 Member States of the General Council of the FAO. The Guidelines build on international law and are a set of recommendations States have chosen on how to implement their obligations under Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization summarised the Right to Food guidelines in six phases or aspects to realizing the right to food:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22059667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22059667", "title": "Sara Hestrin-Lerner", "text": "Sara Hestrin-Lerner\n\nSara Hestrin-Lerner (Hebrew: שרה הסטרין-לרנר) (May 1, 1918 – November 18, 2017) was a Canadian-born Israeli physiologist.\n\nHestrin-Lerner was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada in May 1918. Aged 14, she emigrated with her parents to the then British Mandate of Palestine (now Israel) in 1932. She studied zoology and received her doctorate in pathological physiology from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. She died in November 2017 at the age of 99.\n\nIn 1955, Hestrin-Lerner was awarded the Israel Prize, for medical science. Hestrin-Lerner's brother, Shlomo Hestrin, was also awarded the Israel Prize, in exact sciences, in 1957.\n\n"}
{"id": "47171603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47171603", "title": "The Good Doctors", "text": "The Good Doctors\n\nThe Good Doctors: The Medical Committee for Human Rights and the Struggle for Social Justice in Health Care is a 2009 non-fiction book by historian John Dittmer. The book documents the history of the Medical Committee for Human Rights (MCHR), a group of health professionals who delivered health care to wounded protesters and victims of police violence during the Civil Rights Movement and the anti-war movement in the United States in the 1960s, at a time when the health care system in the South was still segregated.\n\nPhysician Walter Lear founded the Medical Committee for Civil Rights (MCCR) in 1963 to address the entrenched racism in the policies of the American Medical Association (AMA) which enabled Southern states to deny African American physicians the same rights as whites. The group originally protested the AMA in Atlantic City in 1963, but widened their reach when hundreds of health professionals representing MCCR participated in the August 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. \n\nOut of this momentum, a new group, the Medical Committee for Human Rights (MCHR) was created in 1964 by Tom Levin, who was asked by the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) to organize a group of health care workers to support activists during Freedom Summer in Mississippi, a ten-week effort to register disfranchised African American voters. MCHR was needed because there were few black physicians and whites would not treat the injuries of civil rights activists in Mississippi.\n\nMCHR made several discoveries while supporting activists during the Freedom Summer. They found that the public health system for African Americans was virtually nonexistent in Mississippi. Due to segregation, white physicians would not treat black patients. Most blacks had received almost no health care, and most had never visited a doctor. With access to health care so limited, MCHR was imbued with a new purpose. They became a permanent organization and founded field offices. Soon after, community health care clinics began to emerge. MCHR expanded from Mississippi into Alabama and Louisiana. Their mission expanded further, treating veterans from the Vietnam War for PTSD, and calling for a non-profit national health care system.\n\n"}
{"id": "22247525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22247525", "title": "The Joanna Briggs Institute", "text": "The Joanna Briggs Institute\n\nThe Joanna Briggs Institute - known internationally as \"JBI\" - is an international not-for-profit organisation, operating 72 collaborating centres and groups around the world. It focuses on researching evidence-based healthcare. The Institute is based in Adelaide, South Australia. It was established by Royal Adelaide Hospital as an affiliated institute of the University of Adelaide in 1996 and is now a School within the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Adelaide in Australia. \nIt was established in 1996 by the Royal Adelaide Hospital and the University of Adelaide, and takes its name from Joanna Briggs, who was the first matron of the Royal Adelaide Hospital. JBI is now a global collaboration of health scientists and clinicians that operates as an independent, not-for-profit organisation that seeks to improve global health.\n\nJBI is an official supporting organisation of Healthcare Information For All by 2015, a global initiative that aims to improve the availability and use of reliable healthcare information in low-income countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1045467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045467", "title": "Traveler's diarrhea", "text": "Traveler's diarrhea\n\nTraveler's diarrhea (TD) is a stomach and intestinal infection. TD is defined as the passage of unformed stool (one or more by some definitions, three or more by others) while traveling. It may be accompanied by abdominal cramps, nausea, fever, and bloating. Occasionally bloody diarrhea may occur. Most travelers recover within four days with little or no treatment. About 10% of people may have symptoms for a week.\nBacteria are responsible for more than half of cases. The bacteria enterotoxigenic \"Escherichia coli\" (ETEC) are typically the most common except in Southeast Asia, where \"Campylobacter\" is more prominent. About 10% to 20% of cases are due to norovirus. Protozoa such as \"Giardia\" may cause longer term disease. The risk is greatest in the first two weeks of travel and among young adults. People affected are more often from the developed world.\nRecommendations for prevention include eating only properly cleaned and cooked food, drinking bottled water, and frequent hand washing. The oral cholera vaccine, while effective for cholera, is of questionable use for traveler's diarrhea. Preventive antibiotics are generally discouraged. Primary treatment includes drinking lots of fluids and replacing lost salts (oral rehydration therapy). Antibiotics are recommended for significant or persistent symptoms, and can be taken with loperamide to decrease diarrhea. Hospitalization is required in less than 3% of cases.\nEstimates of the percentage of people affected range from 20 to 50% among travelers to the developing world. TD is particularly common among people travelling to Asia (except Japan), the Middle East, Africa, Mexico, and Central and South America. The risk is moderate in Southern Europe, Russia, and China. TD has been linked to later irritable bowel syndrome and Guillain–Barré syndrome. It has colloquially been known by a number of names, including \"Montezuma's revenge\" and \"Delhi belly\".\n\nThe onset of TD usually occurs within the first week of travel, but may occur at any time while traveling, and even after returning home, depending on the incubation period of the infectious agent. Bacterial TD typically begins abruptly, but \"Cryptosporidium\" may incubate for seven days, and \"Giardia\" for 14 days or more, before symptoms develop. Typically, a traveler experiences four to five loose or watery bowel movements each day. Other commonly associated symptoms are abdominal cramping, bloating, fever, and malaise. Appetite may decrease significantly. Though unpleasant, most cases of TD are mild, and resolve in a few days without medical intervention.\n\nBlood or mucus in the diarrhea, significant abdominal pain, or high fever suggests a more serious cause, such as cholera, characterized by a rapid onset of weakness and torrents of watery diarrhea with flecks of mucus (described as \"rice water\" stools). Medical care should be sought in such cases; dehydration is a serious consequence of cholera, and may trigger serious sequelae—including, in rare instances, death—as rapidly as 24 hours after onset if not addressed promptly.\n\nInfectious agents are the primary cause of travelers' diarrhea. Bacterial enteropathogens cause about 80% of cases. Viruses and protozoans account for most of the rest.\n\nThe most common causative agent isolated in countries surveyed has been enterotoxigenic \"Escherichia coli\" (ETEC). Enteroaggregative \"E. coli\" is increasingly recognized. \"Shigella\" spp. and \"Salmonella\" spp. are other common bacterial pathogens. \"Campylobacter\", \"Yersinia\", \"Aeromonas\", and \"Plesiomonas\" spp. are less frequently found. Mechanisms of action vary: some bacteria release toxins which bind to the intestinal wall and cause diarrhea; others damage the intestines themselves by their direct presence.\n\nWhile viruses are associated with less than 20% of adult cases of traveler's diarrhea, they may be responsible for nearly 70% of cases in infants and children. Diarrhea due to viral agents is unaffected by antibiotic therapy, but is usually self-limited. Protozoans such as \"Giardia lamblia\", \"Cryptosporidium\" and \"Cyclospora cayetanensis\" can also cause diarrhea. Pathogens commonly implicated in travelers' diarrhea appear in the table in this section.\n\nA subtype of traveler's diarrhea afflicting hikers and campers, sometimes known as wilderness diarrhea, may have a somewhat different frequency of distribution of pathogens.\n\nThe primary source of infection is ingestion of fecally contaminated food or water. Attack rates are similar for men and women.\n\nThe most important determinant of risk is the traveler's destination. High-risk destinations include developing countries in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Among backpackers, additional risk factors include drinking untreated surface water and failure to maintain personal hygiene practices and clean cookware. Campsites often have very primitive (if any) sanitation facilities, making them potentially as dangerous as any developing country.\n\nAlthough traveler's diarrhea usually resolves within three to five days (mean duration: 3.6 days), in about 20% of cases, the illness is severe enough to require bedrest, and in 10%, the illness duration exceeds one week. For those prone to serious infections, such as bacillary dysentery, amoebic dysentery, and cholera, TD can occasionally be life-threatening. Others at higher-than-average risk include young adults, immunosuppressed persons, persons with inflammatory bowel disease or diabetes, and those taking H2 blockers or antacids.\n\nTravelers often get diarrhea from eating and drinking foods and beverages that have no adverse effects on local residents. This is due to immunity that develops with constant, repeated exposure to pathogenic organisms. The extent and duration of exposure necessary to acquire immunity has not been determined; it may vary with each individual organism. A study among expatriates in Nepal suggests that immunity may take up to seven years to develop—presumably in adults who avoid deliberate pathogen exposure.\nConversely, immunity acquired by American students while living in Mexico disappeared, in one study, as quickly as eight weeks after cessation of exposure.\n\nRecommendations include avoidance of questionable foods and drinks, on the assumption that TD is fundamentally a sanitation failure, leading to bacterial contamination of drinking water and food. While the effectiveness of this strategy has been questioned, given that travelers have little or no control over sanitation in hotels and restaurants, and little evidence supports the contention that food vigilance reduces the risk of contracting TD, guidelines continue to recommend basic, common-sense precautions when making food and beverage choices:\n\n\nIf handled properly, thoroughly cooked fresh and packaged foods are usually safe. Raw or undercooked meat and seafood should be avoided. Unpasteurized milk, dairy products, mayonnaise, and pastry icing are associated with increased risk for TD, as are foods and beverages purchased from street vendors and other establishments where unhygienic conditions may be present.\n\nAlthough safe bottled water is now widely available in most remote destinations, travelers can treat their own water if necessary, or as an extra precaution. \nTechniques include boiling, filtering, chemical treatment, and ultraviolet light; boiling is by far the most effective of these methods. Boiling rapidly kills all active bacteria, viruses, and protozoa. Prolonged boiling is usually unnecessary; most microorganisms are killed within seconds at water temperature above 55–70 °C (130–160 °F). The second-most effective method is to combine filtration and chemical disinfection. Filters eliminate most bacteria and protozoa, but not viruses. Chemical treatment with halogens—chlorine bleach, tincture of iodine, or commercial tablets—have low-to-moderate effectiveness against protozoa such as \"Giardia\", but work well against bacteria and viruses. \nUV light is effective against both viruses and cellular organisms, but only works in clear water, and it is ineffective unless manufacturer's instructions are carefully followed for maximum water depth/distance from UV source, and for dose/exposure time. Other claimed advantages include short treatment time, elimination of the need for boiling, no taste alteration, and decreased long-term cost compared with bottled water. The effectiveness of UV devices is reduced when water is muddy or turbid; as UV is a type of light, any suspended particles create shadows that hide microorganisms from UV exposure.\n\nBismuth subsalicylate four times daily reduces rates of traveler's diarrhea. Though many travelers find a four-times-per-day regimen inconvenient, lower doses have not been shown to be effective. Potential side effects include black tongue, black stools, nausea, constipation, and ringing in the ears. Bismuth subsalicylate should not be taken by those with aspirin allergy, kidney disease, or gout, nor concurrently with certain antibiotics such as the quinolones, and should not be taken continuously for more than three weeks. Some countries do not recommend it due to the risk of rare but serious side effects.\n\nA hyperimmune bovine colostrum to be taken by mouth is marketed in Australia for prevention of ETEC-induced TD. As yet, no studies show efficacy under actual travel conditions.\n\nThough effective, antibiotics are not recommended for prevention of TD in most situations because of the risk of allergy or adverse reactions to the antibiotics, and because intake of preventive antibiotics may decrease effectiveness of such drugs should a serious infection develop subsequently. Antibiotics can also cause vaginal yeast infections, or overgrowth of the bacterium \"Clostridium difficile\", leading to pseudomembranous colitis and its associated severe, unrelenting diarrhea.\n\nAntibiotic may be warranted in special situations where benefits outweigh the above risks, such as immunocompromised travelers, chronic intestinal disorders, prior history of repeated disabling bouts of TD, or scenarios in which the onset of diarrhea might prove particularly troublesome. Options for prophylactic treatment include the quinolone antibiotics (such as ciprofloxacin), azithromycin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, though the latter has proved less effective in recent years. Rifaximin may also be useful. Quinolone antibiotics may bind to metallic cations such as bismuth, and should not be taken concurrently with bismuth subsalicylate. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole should not be taken by anyone with a history of sulfa allergy.\n\nThe oral cholera vaccine, while effective for prevention of cholera, is of questionable use for prevention of TD. A 2008 review found tentative evidence of benefit. A 2015 review stated it may be reasonable for those at high risk of complications from TD. Several vaccine candidates targeting ETEC or \"Shigella\" are in various stages of development.\n\nOne 2007 review found that probiotics may be safe and effective for prevention of TD, while another review found no benefit. A 2009 review confirmed that more study is needed, as the evidence to date is mixed.\n\nMost cases of TD are mild and resolve in a few days without treatment, but severe or protracted cases may result in significant fluid loss and dangerous electrolytic imbalance. Dehydration due to diarrhea can also alter the effectiveness of medicinal and contraceptive drugs. Adequate fluid intake (oral rehydration therapy) is therefore a high priority. Commercial rehydration drinks are widely available; alternatively, purified water or other clear liquids are recommended, along with salty crackers or oral rehydration salts (available in stores and pharmacies in most countries) to replenish lost electrolytes. Carbonated water or soda, left open to allow dissipation of the carbonation, is useful when nothing else is available. In severe or protracted cases, the oversight of a medical professional is advised.\n\nIf diarrhea becomes severe (typically defined as three or more loose stools in an eight-hour period), especially if associated with nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, fever, or blood in stools, medical treatment should be sought. Such patients may benefit from antimicrobial therapy. A 2000 literature review found that antibiotic treatment shortens the duration and severity of TD; most reported side effects were minor, or resolved on stopping the antibiotic.\n\nThe antibiotic recommended vary based on the recommendation being traveled too. Trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole and doxycycline are no longer recommended because of high levels of resistance to these agents. Antibiotics are typically given for three to five days, but single doses of azithromycin or levofloxacin have been used. Rifaximin and rifamycin are approved in the U.S. for treatment of TD caused by ETEC. If diarrhea persists despite therapy, travelers should be evaluated for bacterial strains resistant to the prescribed antibiotic, possible viral or parasitic infections, bacterial or amoebic dysentery, \"Giardia\", helminths, or cholera.\n\nAntimotility drugs such as loperamide and diphenoxylate reduce the symptoms of diarrhea by slowing transit time in the gut. They may be taken to slow the frequency of stools, but not enough to stop bowel movements completely, which delays expulsion of the causative organisms from the intestines. They should be avoided in patients with fever, bloody diarrhea, and possible inflammatory diarrhea. Adverse reactions may include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, hives or rash, and loss of appetite. Antimotility agents should not, as a rule, be taken by children under age two.\n\nAn estimated 10 million people—20 to 50% of international travelers—develop TD each year. It is more common in the developing world, where rates exceed 60%, but has been reported in some form in virtually every travel destination in the world.\n\n\"Montezuma's revenge\" (var. \"Moctezuma's revenge\") is a colloquial term for traveler's diarrhea contracted in Mexico. The name refers to Moctezuma II (1466–1520), the Tlatoani (ruler) of the Aztec civilization who was overthrown by the Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés in the early 16th century, thereby bringing large portions of what is now Mexico and Central America under the rule of the Spanish crown.\n\nWilderness diarrhea, also called wilderness-acquired diarrhea (WAD) or backcountry diarrhea, refers to diarrhea among backpackers, hikers, campers and other outdoor recreationalists in wilderness or backcountry situations, either at home or abroad. It is caused by the same fecal microorganisms as other forms of traveler's diarrhea, usually bacterial or viral. Since wilderness campsites seldom provide access to sanitation facilities, the infection risk is similar to that of any developing country. Water treatment, good hygiene, and dish washing have all been shown to reduce the incidence of WAD.\n"}
