{"id": "10797968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10797968", "title": "Adam Carrington", "text": "Adam Carrington\n\nAdam Alexander Carrington is a fictional character from the ABC prime time soap opera \"Dynasty\", created by Richard and Esther Shapiro. Introduced at the beginning of the series' third season, the role was originated by Gordon Thomson in 1982. He continued to appear as a series regular until the series finale in 1989. For the 1991 miniseries continuation, the role of Adam Carrington was recast with Robin Sachs as Thomson was unavailable.\n\nThe addition of Adam to the cast provided a male villain to the show. Over the next seven seasons, Adam would be motivated primarily by jealousy, undermining the professional successes of his brother Steven and brother-in-law Jeff, in an attempt to curry favor with his parents, especially his father. Adam would betray both his parents multiple times but would be forgiven, even when his acts were criminal, due to residual feelings of guilt for Adam's difficult childhood. When circumstances arise that truly make Adam sympathetic, he squanders that good will due to his selfish, jealous nature.\n\nIn 1986, the \"New Sunday Times\" called Adam \"one of the truly imaginative, despicable villains on television\", noting that \"Adam has raped the butler's daughter, painted poor Jeff Colby's office with poisonous, lead-based paint, tricked Blake into signing over power of attorney while he lay at death's door—and blew a competitor out of the water by plastering his son's homosexuality all over Denver's front pages.\"\n\nGordon Thomson originated the role of Adam Carrington in \"The Plea\", the September 1982 season premiere of \"Dynasty\" third season. According to Thomson, \"They had planned on Adam being an impostor but they liked him so much they decided to keep him on. They tested me for 13 shows, then extended that to 24.\" Thomson played the character until the series finale in 1989.\n\nAdam was recast with British actor Robin Sachs for the 1991 miniseries \"Dynasty: The Reunion\" because Thomson was unavailable, filming the daytime series \"Santa Barbara\".\n\nFormer spouses Blake Carrington and Alexis Carrington make a televised plea for the return of their kidnapped infant grandson L.B. Colby. While on the air, Alexis confesses a dark secret from their past: their firstborn son, Adam, had been kidnapped as a baby and never recovered. Traumatized by the event, they had hidden his existence from their subsequent children Fallon and Steven. (Alexis first mentions Adam during an argument with Blake in episode 36 during season 2.)\n\nIn Billings, Montana, an elderly woman named Kate Torrance watches the broadcast from her deathbed. Afterwards, Kate tearfully tells her grandson Michael—who she has raised since he was a baby, telling him he survived the car crash in which his parents died—\nthat he is really the Carrington heir. (In fact, the real baby Michael had died along with his parents in the crash. A grief-stricken Kate subsequently kidnapped baby Adam, and raised him as her grandson Michael.) To prove it, she shows him an engraved silver baby rattle with the monogram \"A.A.C.\" Michael is stunned by the news. As her dying wish, Kate tells Michael to find and rejoin his real family. Michael agrees, telling Kate, \"My name is Adam Carrington.\"\n\nStill using the name Michael Torrance, Adam travels to Denver and checks into the La Miranda Hotel. He meets a beautiful woman, and while they flirt with each other and share a kiss, she playfully refuses to tell him her name. Adam first goes to meet his father. Blake assumes that he is a con-man who saw the TV broadcast. Stunned by Blake's abrupt rejection, Adam leaves without showing him the baby rattle. In episode 41, \"The Will,\" Adam meets his mother, Alexis. She immediately accepts him as her lost child, and they have an emotional reunion. When Alexis introduces Adam to his sister Fallon, they are shocked—she is the woman from the hotel. Adam isn't bothered by their close-call with incest, but notices that it troubles Fallon. Over time, their relationship will remain strained. Alexis and Adam also visit a doubtful Blake, who gradually accepts the idea that Adam could be his son.\n\nAlexis offers Adam, a lawyer, a job at ColbyCo. When she also recruits Fallon's husband Jeff Colby Adam is jealous. Revealing his devious nature, Adam has Jeff's office painted with toxic paint. Gradually, Jeff's behavior becomes increasingly erratic. In episode 51, Alexis sends Jeff away on a vacation. Realizing that Jeff will \"recover\" when he's not breathing toxic fumes every day, Adam confesses to Alexis. Alexis orders Adam to have the paint removed from Jeff's office. Adam warns his mother that if she betrays him, he will implicate her in the scheme, since Alexis used Jeff's poor health to trick him into signing over his son's shares in Denver-Carrington to her.\n\nDuring this time, Adam also is attracted to Kirby, Jeff and Fallon's nanny. Jeff protects Kirby from Adam's unwanted advances, increasing tension between the two men. In episode 48, a drunken Adam rapes Kirby. In episode 55, Adam attacks Kirby again but she is rescued by Jeff, who proposes to her.\n\nBlake and his wife Krystle are suspicious of Alexis when they learn from Jeff's doctors that there was poison in his bloodstream. But Fallon suspects Adam and vows to learn the truth. She notes that Adam is distressed that his family doctor from Billings is in Denver for a conference. Fallon questions Dr. Edwards, who reveals that Adam once won a court case that involved poisoning by toxic paint fumes.\n\nIn episode 66, Alexis warns Adam that if Fallon learns the truth about Jeff's illness that he is on his own. In return, Adam tricks Alexis into signing documents that make it look like she ordered the office to be painted. Alexis travels to Montana to investigate her son's background and learns from Dr. Edwards that Adam had experimented with drugs as a teen and suffered a psychotic breakdown. Alexis is somewhat more sympathetic to Adam at this point, feeling guilty that they gave up the search for their lost son so many years ago, condemning him to such a tragic life. As she does not want his past drug addiction to be widely known, Alexis is resigned to suffer the consequences of his actions. She gives up her control of Denver-Carrington. In episode 71, Adam is attacked by Jeff. Jeff tells him that Kirby (who is now married to Jeff) is pregnant with Adam's child. Surprised, Adam tells Kirby that he wants to be a father to their baby. When he learns that Kirby and Jeff plan to divorce, he proposes. In episode 75, Kirby accepts his proposal. Adam confesses to Blake that he raped Kirby, who is disgusted by his son. Kirby is diagnosed with eclampsia and must be hospitalized. She suffers from seizures and convulsions and doctors are forced to operate. In episode 77, Adam is distressed to learn that their baby girl has not survived. He tells Kirby gently, devastating her. Stunned with grief, Adam apologizes to Blake and Alexis for the pain that he has caused them. He and Kirby decide to proceed with their wedding plans. However, Alexis blackmails Kirby into leaving Adam, who is crushed when Kirby breaks off their engagement and moves to Paris in the season finale.\n\nAdam causes great concern when he unwillingly is duped by Sammy Jo, his former sister-in-law into helping her kidnap her son, his nephew, Danny. Steven's wife Claudia sympathizes with Adam and encourages him to re-kidnap the child back, mollifying the situation.\n\nAdam is also called upon to defend Alexis against charges that she murdered Mark Jennings. Adam and Dex are able to identify Congressman Neal McVane as the killer, and Alexis is acquitted. During this time, Adam mourns the death of his sister Fallon and discovers that he has another sister, Amanda.\n\nAdam also grows closer to Claudia, and steps in to comfort her when her marriage to Steven falls apart. Despite Blakes admonition not to become romantically involved with Claudia, he invites her to accompany him to Amanda's wedding to Prince Michael of Moldavia. Adam promises Blake that he'll end the relationship after the wedding, which is interrupted by a terrorist attack.\n\nAfter surviving the terrorist attack on Amanda's wedding, Adam proposes to Claudia in episode 121. After they elope in episode 123, a furious Blake disowns Adam and cuts him out of his will. Meanwhile, Claudia pressures Adam to help her acquire an oil well from Blake that she believes is rightfully hers. Adam takes advantage of Blake's health problems to trick him into signing a Power of Attorney.\n\nAdam is also working with Denver-Carrington on a pipeline project with Colby Enterprises. When he travels to California for a meeting, he encounters his sister Fallon who is alive and suffering from amnesia. Fallon becomes hysterical upon meeting Adam, and accuses him of raping her. Jeff is ready to believe her accusation, but upon further counseling, Fallon realizes that her unresolved conflict over her sexual attraction to Adam when they first met was what triggered her mental breakdown and subsequent disappearance and amnesia.\n\nAs part of his work on the pipeline, Adam attempts to bribe State Senator Bart Fallmont. When Fallmont refuses the bribe, Adam investigates and learns that he is a closeted gay man. Adam leaks stories to the press that Bart is sleeping with Steven, which infuriates his family but ultimately causes Bart to resign, effectively ending opposition to his pipeline deal.\n\nClaudia has been increasingly obsessed with regaining an oil well from Blake. When Adam cannot help her, she reveals to Blake that Adam took advantage of his illness. Later that night, in the season finale (episode 148) Claudia accidentally sets fire to her hotel room while Adam drowns his sorrows at the hotel bar.\n\nAdam escapes the hotel fire, but is devastated to learn that Claudia has perished in the blaze.\n\nAdam, working for Alexis at ColbyCo, attempts to seduce his father's assistant Dana Waring. Dana is furious when she learns Adam has used her, but he convinces her that his feelings for her are true. In episode 165, Adam proposes. Dana accepts, although in episode 166, it is revealed that Dana has a secret which she fears could come between them.\n\nIn episode 167, Neal McVane is released from prison. He tells Adam that, while in prison, he learned that the real baby Adam Carrington had died during the kidnapping—that he is a fraud. He also claims to have evidence. McVane begins blackmailing Adam who, who has recently reconciled with Blake, is panicked that he will lose everything. Adam feeds McVane insider trading information but his depression causes him to drink heavily. In episode 170, Adam is arrested for DUI. Blake vows to learn what is causing Adam's troubles. In episode 174, Adam confesses to Blake and Alexis that he has learned he is not their son. Adam plans to leave Denver with Dana, but Blake convinces him not to go. In episode 176, the season finale, Adam and Dana are married. Just prior to the wedding, Blake and Alexis present a stunned and grateful Adam with adoption papers—regardless of what McVane says, they consider him to be their son, faults and all. Later, in the 1988 episode \"The Scandal\", McVane leads Adam to the source of the story about Adam actually being Michael Torrance. Adam discovers that it was fabricated, and that he really is Blake and Alexis' son.\n\nOn their honeymoon, Adam tells Dana that he wants to start a family. He grows suspicious when Dana keeps avoiding the subject. He follows Dana to her doctor and is crushed to learn that Dana is unable to have children. They decide to hire a surrogate mother, and in episode 181 meet Karen Atkinson. After she becomes pregnant, Adam showers Karen with presents and affection making Dana feel excluded.\n\nMeanwhile, Adam finds himself in conflict with his mother's new husband, Sean Rowan. Sean is hell-bent on destroying all the Carringtons. Sean blackmails Dana who must eventually confess her secret to Adam. Dana cannot have children due to a botched abortion during high school. What's more, Dana was a student at Adam's high school in Billings (when Adam was still Michael Torrance, naturally). One night during a drunken blackout, the shy and mousy Dana slept with Adam who has no memory of the incident. She was obsessed with him which is what ultimately led her to Denver last year. Adam is stunned by the news and reacts badly, accusing her of killing his child. Adam turns to Karen for comfort. Eventually, Adam forgives Dana and threatens to kill Sean if he hurts Dana again.\n\nUndaunted, Sean pays Karen's ex-husband, Jessie, to reconcile with her, throwing the surrogacy into question. Adam attempts to bribe him to leave town, but Sean forces Jessie to stay. After the baby is born in episode 194, Karen tells Adam that she and Jessie want to keep the baby. During the trial, Alexis reveals that Sean bribed Karen and Jessie. Dana sympathizes with Karen and states that Karen is the rightful mother. Adam moves out of their bedroom.\n\nJust before the end of the trial, the baby is kidnapped. Adam is the primary suspect, but he and Steven discover that Sean is the kidnapper and are able to rescue the baby. In the season finale, custody is awarded to Karen and Jessie.\n\nA drunk and depressed Adam alienates his family. Dana leaves Adam and moves away from Denver. Adam continues his manipulative ways, attempting to double-cross Jeff on their pipeline work by sleeping with Steven's former secretary, Claire. He also seduces Virginia, Krystle's cousin, and learns of her mysterious past with Dex. Adam learns that Virginia was a prostitute and humiliates her into leaving Denver. When Dex learns of Adam's actions, they come to blows. Dex tells Blake about Adam's behavior causing a rift between father and son.\n\nAdam also flirts with Joanna, Sable Colby's vice-president of mergers and acquisitions, in an attempt to help his mother with a vendetta against Sable. Blake eventually fires Adam who returns to ColbyCo, and offers Joanna a job when Sable fires her. Adam assists Alexis in investigating a mysterious mine on the Carrington property, where a 20-year-old dead body was recently found. Adam discovers a witness who claims he saw Blake put the body in the mine. Adam passes this information to Blake, and then finds the witness dead just moments after seeing Blake leave the witnesses apartment. Blake accuses Adam of setting him up, but Adam insists that something more nefarious is going on. As the mystery deepens, Adam and Alexis learn that the mine holds stolen Nazi treasure and artwork.\n\nOut of spite, Adam has photographs of Jeff and his supposed-sister, Monica, doctored to look like they are sharing a romantic moment. In the chaos that follows, Alexis reveals that Monica is not Jeff's sister and only his cousin as before.\n\nIn the final episode of the series, Adam taunts Dex when he learns that Sable is pregnant with his child. The men fight while Alexis, Sable, and Monica watch in horror. When Dex turns his back, Adam rushes him. Dex falls backward into Alexis, sending them both crashing through a railing falling off a second-story balcony.\n\nThree years after the final episode, Adam is still working for Alexis, having sold out Denver-Carrington to a foreign cartel while Blake was in jail. After Blake's release and subsequent recontrol of his company, Adam and Blake are reconciled once again. In addition, a remorseful Adam is reunited with Kirby.\n\nA \"Dynasty\" reboot premiered on The CW on October 11, 2017.\n\nFallon (Elizabeth Gillies) is kidnapped in the January 2018 episode \"I Answer to No Man\", prompting Blake (Grant Show) to confide in his wife Cristal (Nathalie Kelley) that he and Alexis had a son before Steven and Fallon. The baby, Adam, was kidnapped at six months old and never returned. In \"Don't Con a Con Artist\", Alexis (Nicollette Sheridan) tells Steven (James Mackay) about Adam, and admits that she spent all of her money trying to find him. A tip from Alexis leads Steven to El Paso in \"A Line from the Past\", where he finds Adam living under the name Hank Sullivan (Brent Antonello). In \"Trashy Little Tramp\", Steven brings Hank/Adam home, but Blake refuses to accept him. Hank's missing finger convinces Blake that he is Adam, but Hank is actually Alexis' lover with whom she is conspiring to amass enough Carrington Atlantic shares to seize control of the company.\n"}
{"id": "44476662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44476662", "title": "Ahmad Aladdin", "text": "Ahmad Aladdin\n\nAhmad Aladdin Arslan (died 17 November 2014) was a Jordanian military leader from Chechen descent. He attained the rank of Major General. He was the only officer to have received the Jordanian Order of Military Gallantary \"Wisam al-Iqdam al-Askari\" twice. He was famous for leading the response to the 1976 terrorist attack on the Amman InterContinental Hotel.\n\nAladdin was en route to receive medical treatment in Germany when he died during the flight, aged 72. He was subsequently buried on 19 November 2014 in the Chechen Cemetery in the city of Zarqa. He was buried with military honours. His funeral was attended amongst others by Prince Hashim Al Hussein, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mashal Al Zaben, King Abdullah's advisor for tribal affairs Sharif Fawaz Bin Zaben and ministers and deputies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41711166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41711166", "title": "Akkineni Nageswara Rao filmography", "text": "Akkineni Nageswara Rao filmography\n\nThis is the filmography of prominent Telugu cinema actor Akkineni Nageswara Rao.\n"}
{"id": "4254389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4254389", "title": "Aleksandra Artyukhina", "text": "Aleksandra Artyukhina\n\nAlexandra Vasilevna Artyukhina (6 November 1889 – 7 April 1969) was an early Russian Bolshevist and revolutionary who rose to sit on the Secretariat of the CPSU Central Committee, but was brought down by Joseph Stalin's purges in the late 1930s.\nThe child of textile workers, Artyukhina was born at Vyshny Volochyok. She became a dressmaker's apprentice at age ten and a mill worker by 17. She joined the Communist labor movement in Russia, and was forced into exile at age 20 - probably in 1909. After three years, she returned to Russia and resumed her work, both in textiles and in union organizing.\n\nShe was active during the Revolution and rose through the ranks to sit as an alternate member on the Secretariat of the CPSU Central Committee from 1926 to 1930. On March 1, 1931, international journalists noticed Artukhina as the first woman to sit on the Soviet Supreme Court. \n\nShe assumed leadership of the Cotton Textile Workers Union when a Commissar of light industry, Isadore Lubimoff, was removed. A collective farm was named for her.\n\nHer industry fell 11% short of its production goal for the first quarter of 1938. Artukhina and her subordinates were charged with allowing anti-Soviet wreckers to spread their corruption. She was accused of approving the same quotas for different machines, allowing the neglect of machines, and unnecessarily complicated paperwork. \n\nAfter Stalin's death Artyukhina was rehabilitated. She was named a Hero of Socialist Labor in 1960, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of International Women's Day, and lies buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery.\n\n\nThe information in this article came from \"New York Times\" articles dated March 2, 1931 and May 23, 1938. The latter refers to the Soviet workers' newspaper \"Trud\" as its source.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31058274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31058274", "title": "Alfredo Abon Lee", "text": "Alfredo Abon Lee\n\nCaptain Alfredo Abón Lee (1927 – December 4, 2012) was a Cuban army officer of Chinese Cuban ancestry who was the commander of the garrison at Yaguajay Squadron and was sent to Las Villa, replacing Colonel Roger Rojas Lavernia, where he fought the 26th of July Movement in December 1958 in one of the final engagements of the Cuban Revolution. Before that, he served in the Battalion 22 during operations in eastern Cuba.\n\nHe died on December 4, 2012 in Englewood, New Jersey, United States.\n"}
{"id": "31170295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31170295", "title": "Amr Hamzawy", "text": "Amr Hamzawy\n\nAmr Hamzawy (, ; born 1967) is an Egyptian political scientist, human rights activist and public intellectual.\n\nHamzawy studied political science and developmental studies in Cairo, The Hague, and Berlin. After finishing his doctoral studies and after five years of teaching in Cairo and Berlin, Hamzawy joined the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, DC between 2005 and 2009 as a senior associate for Middle East politics. Between 2009 and 2010, he served as the research director of the Middle East Center of the Carnegie Endowment in Beirut, Lebanon. In 2011, he joined the Department of Public Policy and Administration at the American University in Cairo, where he continues to serve today. Hamzawy also serves as an associate professor of political science at the Department of Political Science, Cairo University.\n\nHis research and teaching interests as well as his academic publications focus on democratization processes in Egypt, tensions between freedom and repression in the Egyptian public space, political movements and civil society in Egypt, contemporary debates in Arab political thought, and human rights and governance in the Arab world.\n\nHamzawy is a former member of the People’s Assembly after being elected in the first Parliamentary elections in Egypt after the Egyptian Revolution of 2011. He is also a former member of the Egyptian National Council for Human Rights. Hamzawy contributes a daily column and a weekly op-ed to the Egyptian independent newspaper \"Al Shorouk\".\n\nHamzawy received his bachelor's degree from Cairo University in Egypt. After that he revived his master's degree from the University of Amsterdam, and another from the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague. In 2002, he received his PhD from the Free University of Berlin.\n\nHamzawy used to work in the Middle East as a research director at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Beirut.\nHe played an important role in the 2011 Egyptian revolution and he was the spokesman of the \"Board of Wise Men\" set up during the revolution to offer negotiations and possible solutions to the protesters and the government. \nAfter the installation of Ahmed Shafik as Prime Minister, Hamzawy was offered the position of Minister of Youth. He declined the post.\nHe has since become involved in the project for the establishment of a liberal party in Egypt. Hamzawy is a founding member of Freedom Egypt Party.\n\nIn 2012, Hamzawy was elected as a member of the Egyptian Parliament (constituency Heliopolis, Badr City, Shorouk, Hikestep).\n\nIn 2013, he supported the campaign of the Tamarod movement for early presidential elections in Egypt. However, in the aftermath of the military coup that followed, he spoke out against the shutdown of Islamist satellite networks and the detention of President Morsi and other Islamist leaders, and objected in a newspaper column to \"the rhetoric of gloating, hatred, retribution and revenge against the Muslim Brotherhood.\"\n\nOn 15 February 2012 Hamzawy married the Egyptian actress Basma Hassan at the Marriott Hotel in Cairo. His children are Luay, Noah Abu El Magd and Nadya.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15395094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15395094", "title": "Arthur Allan Thomas", "text": "Arthur Allan Thomas\n\nArthur Allan Thomas (born 2 January 1938) is a New Zealand man who was granted a Royal Pardon and compensation after being wrongfully convicted of the murders of Harvey and Jeannette Crewe in June 1970. Thomas was married and farming a property in the Pukekawa district, south of Auckland before the case. Following the revelation that the crucial evidence against him had been faked, Thomas was pardoned and awarded NZ$950,000 in compensation for his 9 years in prison and loss of earnings.\n\nThere were numerous inconsistencies in the evidence, which led to an outcry among elements in the farming community and among relatives of Thomas and his wife, Vivien Thomas. That led to the formation of the Arthur Thomas Retrial Committee.\n\nThe report by a retired judge, Sir George MacGregor, which rejected the appeal for a retrial was also riddled with inconsistencies and inaccuracies. However, a report on that by journalist Terry Bell, then deputy editor of the \"Auckland Star\" Saturday edition, was rejected for publication on the grounds that \"it is not the role of the newspapers to attempt to try the courts\". Bell then resigned and produced the booklet \"Bitter Hill\", which is the English meaning of Pukekawa, outlining inconsistencies in the prosecution's case and the theory advanced by the retrial committee. It provided the impetus for a national campaign that eventually led to a controversial retrial where the jury was housed incommunicado with police in a local hotel. Thomas was again convicted.\n\nPat Booth, the assistant editor of the \"Auckland Star\", attended the retrial and became concerned. As part of the campaign for a pardon, Booth wrote a book, \"Trial by Ambush\". That was followed by another campaigning book, \"Beyond Reasonable Doubt\", by British investigative author David Yallop, which was subsequently made into a film of the same name.\n\nThomas received a pardon, and a Royal Commission report explicitly stated that detectives had used ammunition and a rifle taken from his farm to fabricate false evidence against him. A 2014 police review of the case acknowledged police misconduct was probably the explanation for the key evidence against Thomas, a spent cartridge case.\n\nA Royal Commission of Inquiry was established, headed by retired New South Wales Justice Robert Taylor. It declared Thomas to have been wrongfully charged and convicted and found that among other improprieties, police had planted a .22 rifle cartridge case in the garden of the house in which the murders were committed. The case was found four months and ten days after the area had already been subjected to one of the most intensive police searches ever undertaken. The cartridge case was said to have come from a rifle belonging to Thomas. However, the police tested only 64 rifles in an area where this weapon was common and found that two, including the one belonging to Thomas – could have fired the cartridge case found in the garden. That was the link to the deaths of the Crewes although it was later admitted that the case was \"clean\" and uncorroded when it was found. As such, the condition of the case was inconsistent with having lain in the garden, exposed to weather and dirt for more than four months.\n\nThe commission report said: \"Mr Hutton and Mr [Len] Johnston planted the shell case... and they did so to manufacture evidence that Mr Thomas' rifle had been used for the killings.\" The Solicitor-General recommended against prosecuting the officers because of insufficient evidence. An independent review of the 2014 police review by David PH Jones QC, released on 30 July 2014, concluded \"In my view, there was sufficient evidence for a prosecution to have been taken against Bruce Hutton based on the available material\".\n\nIn 2009 Arthur Allan Thomas travelled to Christchurch to support David Bain, who also had criminal convictions against him overturned. In 2010 he collaborated with investigative journalist Ian Wishart on the book \"Arthur Allan Thomas\", where for the first time he gave his perspective on his life, from before the murders to the present.\n\nThe two detectives who planted the shell which helped convict Thomas are now dead. Johnston died in 1978. Bruce Hutton, 83, died in Middlemore Hospital in April 2013. At Hutton's funeral, Deputy Commissioner Mike Bush praised Mr Hutton and said he was known for having \"integrity beyond reproach\". An editorial in the \"New Zealand Herald\" said: \"that was clearly absurd. It was also an unthinking or calculated insult to Mr Thomas, who spent nine years in prison before being pardoned\". Thomas, then aged 75 years old, responded by saying the police were engaged in \"a blatant cover up\". A police review of the original investigation, at a cost of $400,000 to New Zealand taxpayers, released in July 2014, cleared all other suspects and implied that Arthur Thomas remained a police suspect.. The independent review by David PH Jones QC concluded that \"It does not appear that there was any real inquiry by the 1970 investigation team into any persons other than Arthur Thomas\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19647106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19647106", "title": "Assia (singer)", "text": "Assia (singer)\n\nAssia (born on November 1, 1973, in Algiers) is an Algerian-born French singer with Kabyle origins. Her albums mixed French variety, rhythm and blues, and Oriental music. She had great success with her hit singles \"Elle est à toi\" and \"Là-bas\".\n\nAt a young age, she spent twelve years at the classical conservatory in Créteil (near Paris), then a few years later obtained a law degree.\n\nFrom 1998 to 1999, Assia participated in \"Une Affaire de famille\" with Stomy Bugsy, Passi and Doc Gynéco of the Sector A and the soundtracks of the movies \"Taxi\" and \"Kiss of the Dragon\" with the song \"Ghir Dini\".\n\nIn 2000, she released her first album entitled \"Chercheuse d'or\" (recorded in Paris, Toulouse and Los Angeles). Assia wrote the texts and his brother Khalil signed the music. Her first top single \"Elle est à toi\" (over 700,000 copies) was written in collaboration with Calbo of Arsenik. The second single is \"Là-bas\" (music video directed by J.G. Biggs).\n\nIn 2002, Assia played in the musical \"Cindy\" with Lââm in the lead role.\n\nIn 2003, she released a single with Beenie Man, \"Street Life\".\n\nIn 2005, Assia released her second album, \"Encore et Encore\", recorded in Spain, whose second single \"Politiquement Correct\" was co-written with Diam's.\n\n Duet with Doc Gyneco\n\n"}
{"id": "47192748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47192748", "title": "Avera Mengistu", "text": "Avera Mengistu\n\nAvraham \"Avera\" Mengistu (Hebrew: אברה מנגיסטו, born 22 August 1986) is an Israeli man who crossed into Gaza on September 7, 2014. He was detained and interrogated by Hamas, and has been missing since then. His family has stated that he is mentally unstable and had been admitted to a mental hospital in the past. He had been treated with medication, which he stopped taking a few weeks prior to his crossing.\n\nMengistu was born in Ethiopia, the fourth of ten children in Haili and Agumesh Mengistu's family. He made \"aliyah\" (\"i.e.\", immigrated to Israel) with his family at age five and grew up in a low income neighborhood in Ashkelon, which is from Gaza. His mother cleaned houses for a living, while his father became chronically unemployed, and his parents divorced in 2012. In a column in \"The Jerusalem Post\", Tal Harris described the Mengistu family as extremely underprivileged and belonging to the poorest socio-economic sector of Israeli society. Mengistu attended public schools. After finishing high school, Mengistu worked in a series of odd jobs, including recycling.\n\nIn 2011, Mengistu began to experience mental health problems after his older brother Masrashau died. He became withdrawn from his family and friends. He tied a piece of string around one of his fingers so tightly it cut off the blood flow, causing severe gangrene that led to the amputation of the finger. He quit his job and refused to accept benefits from the National Insurance Institute. He also began asking friends for money and traveling alone through various parts of Israel. At one point, his family considered him missing until police located him almost away in Tiberias. He agreed to undergo psychiatric treatment and was hospitalized voluntarily in a mental facility in Beersheba for 12 days in January 2013, but his family did not think he seemed better when he was released. Five days later, they had him committed involuntarily for a week, but after his release, he threw away his medication. According to his brother, his condition worsened. \n\nIn March 2013, Mengistu was exempted from mandatory military service in the Israel Defense Forces after a medical committee found him unfit for service. According to a childhood friend, in the year before his disappearance, his condition further worsened, and he began to hurt himself and talk illogically.\n\nOn September 7, 2014, Mengistu asked his mother to give him money. When she told him she did not have any, he became angry and left at about noon without saying anything. He then walked to a beach in Zikim and arrived at the security fence between Israel and the Gaza Strip. An Israeli patrol who were guarding electrical work spotted him carrying a bag near the security fence with Gaza and let him pass. One of the soldiers later said he thought Mengistu was a Sudanese refugee who had decided to move to Gaza. A security camera on an army watchtower noticed him trying to climb the fence, and the patrol that had let him pass earlier was notified. By the time they arrived, Mengistu had reached the top of the fence. They called for him to stop and fired a warning shot into the air, but he ignored them and scaled the fence. He left behind the bag, which was found to contain slippers, a towel, a Bible, and a few other books, one of which had his name on it. Since then, he has not been seen by any Israeli. Israel contacted the Red Cross and officials in the Gaza Strip and demanded that Mengistu be returned to Israel.\n\nInitially, a Hamas official said Mengistu was interrogated and seemed to have psychological problems. Israeli officials said there is \"credible intelligence\" that Hamas holds Mengistu \"against his will\". Later, Moussa Abu Marzouk, deputy chairman of Hamas' political bureau, said in an interview with Al Jazeera that Mengistu wore a uniform, was mentally healthy, and that his case had came up during truce negotiations related to the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, which took place weeks before the date Israel says Mengistu crossed into Gaza.\n\nIn Israel, a blanket gag order regarding the incident was put into place. It lasted 10 months, until July 9, 2015. Discussions took place in social media forums and some reports were published on foreign websites. Some clues about the affair were leaked to different Arabic media outlets, from which the story made its way to international media and was published by blogger Richard Silverstein. The gag order was lifted following a request from \"Haaretz\". The Associated Press speculated that a statement made by Khaled Mashaal the previous day, in which he spoke of an Israeli request through a European intermediary for the release of \"two soldiers and two bodies\", may have \"forced Israel's hand\".\n\nAmir Rapaport of Makor Rishon wrote, \"The main reason for the low profile in which the incident was dealt with was the fear that public announcement will make it difficult for Hamas to return Mengistu to Israel, since a massive [Palestinian] public pressure will be applied to Hamas to not return him without an extensive deal of prisoners swap\".\n\nThe Mengistu family went to Geneva in 2015 to meet with human rights organizations, including the Red Cross and Amnesty International, in an effort to gain their assistance and to put pressure on Hamas to release Avera. The family provided medical documentation of his hospitalizations and his need for daily medication and therapy, as well as proof he did not serve in the army, carry any weapon, and was in no way involved in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The family returned to Israel with the promise of help.\n\nIn May 2017, Human Rights Watch issued a report condemning Hamas for holding Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed, another Israeli, incommunicado, calling on the group to \"officially and unconditionally disclose\" whether it was holding the men and to free them unless \"a credible legal basis\" for holding them could be provided. In its report, Human Rights Watch wrote that both men had histories of mental health problems. The report also said that although Hamas' military wing had referred to both men as soldiers, Mengistu had been deemed \"unfit for [military] service\" by the IDF and al-Sayed had been discharged three months after he volunteered in 2008 as \"incompatible for service\". The report added that photos of the men in military uniforms circulated by Hamas appeared to have been \"photoshopped\". When the report was released, Sarah Leah Whitson, director of the Middle East and North Africa division of Human Rights Watch, said \"Hamas's refusal to confirm its apparent prolonged detention of men with mental health conditions and no connection to the hostilities is cruel and indefensible. No grievance or objective can justify holding people incommunicado and bartering over their fates.\"\n\nCritics say the Mengistu family is being treated poorly because of their Ethiopian ethnicity. Avera's brother, Yalo, has stated that if Avera were white, the affair would have been handled differently. A message sent on Hamas' Twitter account said, \"Obviously, the real Israeli motto is 'leave no Ashkenazi man behind,'\" an apparent reference to the military and diplomatic efforts made by Israel on behalf of captured soldier Gilad Shalit and the lack of such efforts on Mengistu's behalf.\n\nIn 2016, Hamas demanded the release of 60 Palestinian prisoners who were released as part of the Gilad Shalit prisoner exchange and subsequently rearrested as the \"entry fee\" to start negotiating for the release of Mengistu and for the separation of his negotiation from other issues. An unnamed Israeli official said in July 2016 that Hamas wanted a deal similar to the Shalit exchange, in which hundreds of prisoners would be released in return for the bodies of IDF soldier Oron Shaul and IDF officer Hadar Goldin and the living civilians Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed, an Israeli Bedouin held by Hamas.\n\nIn June 2017, the IDF gave Mengistu's family a copy of the security camera footage showing him crossing into Gaza. They had been shown the tape several months after his disappearance, but a few years later they requested a copy of their own. When she accepted the tape from representatives from the Defense Ministry and IDF Intelligence Unit, Mengistu's mother said \"I would have preferred to see footage of my son Avraham Mengistu returning home. My son Avera struggles with mental health disabilities and there is a daily concern for his life. The delivery of the recording does not exempt the state of its responsibility to operate to return my son to his country.\"\n\nMengistu's father feels that the government is not being transparent with him. On 2 July 2018, he spoke at a conference organized by MK Hilik Bar to focus public attention on Mengistu's situation. \"I asked them for Avera's bag, which was [found] after the incident,\" he said. \"The bag still had clothes; the bag looked bad because they fired upon [Avera], warning shots. There is a 'conspiracy of silence' with Israel's security forces. I ask, why don't they tell us the whole story, everything that happened there. I ask from you, from the public and from the government, to help me.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35746799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35746799", "title": "Bennet Omalu", "text": "Bennet Omalu\n\nBennet Ifeakandu Omalu (born September 1968) is a Nigerian-American physician, forensic pathologist, and neuropathologist who was the first to discover and publish findings of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in American football players while working at the Allegheny County Coroner's Office in Pittsburgh. He later became the chief medical examiner for San Joaquin County, California, and is a professor at the University of California, Davis, Department of Medical Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.\n\nOmalu was born in Nnokwa, Idemili South, Anambra in southeastern Nigeria on September 30, 1968, the sixth of seven siblings. He was born during the Nigerian Civil War, which caused his family to flee from their home in the predominantly Igbo village of Enugu-Ukwu in southeastern Nigeria. They returned two years after Omalu's birth. Omalu's mother was a seamstress and his father a civil mining engineer and community leader in Enugu-Ukwu. The family name, Omalu, is a shortened form of the surname, Onyemalukwube, which translates to \"he who knows, speak.\"\n\nOmalu began primary school at age three and earned entrance into the Federal Government College Enugu for secondary school. He attended medical school starting at age 16 at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. After graduating with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) in June 1990, he completed a clinical internship, followed by three years of service work doctoring in the highland city of Jos. He became disillusioned with Nigeria after presidential candidate Moshood Abiola failed to win the Nigerian presidency during an inconclusive election in 1993 and began to search for scholarship opportunities in the United States. Omalu first came to Seattle, Washington in 1994 to complete an epidemiology fellowship at the University of Washington. In 1995, he left Seattle for New York City, where he joined Columbia University's Harlem Hospital Center for a residency training program in anatomic and clinical pathology.\n\nAfter residency, he trained as a forensic pathologist under noted forensic consultant Cyril Wecht at the Allegheny County Coroner's Office in Pittsburgh. Omalu became particularly interested in neuropathology.\n\nOmalu holds eight advanced degrees and board certifications, later receiving fellowships in pathology and neuropathology through the University of Pittsburgh in 2000 and 2002 respectively, a Master of Public Health (MPH) in epidemiology in 2004 from University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health, and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon University in 2008.\n\nOmalu served as chief medical examiner of San Joaquin County, California from 2007 until he resigned in 2017 after accusing the county's Sheriff, who doubles as Coroner, of repeatedly interfering with death investigations to protect law enforcement officers who killed people. An assistant forensic pathologist who joined the office for the opportunity to work with Omalu resigned a few days earlier citing similar allegations. \n\nOmalu is a professor in the UC Davis Department of Medical Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.\n\nOmalu's autopsy of former Pittsburgh Steelers player Mike Webster in 2002 led to the re-emergence of awareness of a neurologic condition associated with chronic head trauma called chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, which had been previously described in boxers and other professional athletes. Webster had died suddenly and unexpectedly following years of struggling with cognitive and intellectual impairment, destitution, mood disorders, depression, drug abuse, and suicide attempts. Although Webster's brain looked normal at autopsy, Omalu conducted independent and self-financed tissue analyses. He suspected that Webster suffered from dementia pugilistica, which is a form of dementia that is induced by repeated blows to the head, a condition found previously in boxers. Using specialized staining, Omalu found large accumulations of tau protein in Webster's brain, which affect mood, emotions, and executive functions similar to the way that clumps of beta-amyloid protein contribute to Alzheimer's disease.\n\nTogether with colleagues in the Department of Pathology at the University of Pittsburgh, Omalu published his findings in the journal \"Neurosurgery\" in 2005 in a paper titled \"Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy in a National Football League Player.\" In it, Omalu called for further study of the disease: \"We herein report the first documented case of long-term neurodegenerative changes in a retired professional NFL player consistent with chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). This case draws attention to a disease that remains inadequately studied in the cohort of professional football players, with unknown true prevalence rates.\" Omalu believed the National Football League (NFL) doctors would be \"pleased\" to read it and that his research could be used to \"fix the problem.\" The paper received little attention initially, but members of the NFL's Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (MTBI) Committee later called for its retraction in May 2006. Their letter requesting the retraction characterized Omalu's description of CTE as \"completely wrong\" and called the paper \"a failure.\"\n\nOmalu later partnered with Julian Bailes, a neurosurgeon, concussion researcher, and then chairman of the Department of Neurosurgery at West Virginia University School of Medicine, and West Virginia attorney Robert P. Fitzsimmons to found the Brain Injury Research Institute which established a brain and tissue bank.\n\nIn November 2006, Omalu published a second \"Neurosurgery\" paper based on his findings in the brain of former NFL player Terry Long, who suffered from depression and committed suicide in 2005. Though Long died at 45, Omalu found tau protein concentrations more consistent with \"a 90-year-old brain with advanced Alzheimer's.\" As with Mike Webster, Omalu asserted that Long's football career had caused later brain damage and depression. Omalu also found evidence of CTE in the brains of retired NFL players Justin Strzelczyk (d. 2004 at 36 years old), Andre Waters (d. 2006 at 44), and Tom McHale (d. 2008 at 45).\n\nIn summer 2007, Bailes presented his and Omalu's findings to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell at a league-wide concussion summit. Bailes later said that the research was \"dismissed\". The NFL's MTBI committee chair, Dr. Ira Casson, told the press: \"In my opinion, the only scientifically valid evidence of a chronic encephalopathy in athletes is in boxers and in some Steeplechase jockeys.\"\n\nThe NFL did not publicly acknowledge the link between concussions sustained in football and long-term neurological effects until December 2009, seven years after Omalu's discovery. However, as late as 2013, the annual meeting of the American Academy of Clinical Neuropsychology (AACN) included a debate between two sports concussion experts regarding the validity (or existence) of CTE. Finally, in March 2016, the NFL's senior vice president for health and safety policy, Jeff Miller, testified before congress that the NFL now believed that there was a link between football and CTE.\n\nOmalu has also discovered CTE in the brains of military veterans, publishing the first documented case in a November 2011 article. Omalu found evidence of CTE in a 27-year-old Iraq War veteran who suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and later committed suicide. Omalu's paper links PTSD to the CTE spectrum of diseases and calls for further study.\n\nOmalu is lead author in a study published in November 2017 that for the first time confirmed CTE in a living person. A chemical tracer, FDDNP, binds to tau proteins, detectable by positron emission tomography, and associated with the distinctive topographical distributions characteristic of CTE. Tested on at least a dozen former NFL players, it was confirmed postmortem in former linebacker Fred McNeill.\n\nIn March 2018 Omalu conducted an independent autopsy of Stephon Clark, who had been shot by Sacramento Police officers. On March 30, he released his findings, stating that Clark had been shot eight times from the back or side, adding, \"You could reasonably conclude that he received seven gunshot wounds from his back.\"\n\nOmalu's efforts to study and publicize CTE in the face of NFL opposition were reported in a \"GQ\" magazine article in 2009 by journalist Jeanne Marie Laskas. The article was later expanded by Laskas into a book, \"Concussion\" (Penguin Random House, 2015), and adapted into a film of the same name where Omalu, portrayed by Will Smith, is the central character. The film has been criticized for not being truthful to the actual events. Nevertheless, the movie's production led to the creation of a foundation named after Omalu to advance CTE and concussion research.\n\nIn September 2016, Omalu attracted media attention when he suggested on Twitter that Hillary Clinton was possibly poisoned and advised members of her presidential campaign to \"perform toxicologic analysis of Ms. Clinton's blood.\" He further tweeted, \"I do not trust Mr. Putin and Mr. Trump. With those two, all things are possible.\"\n\nOmalu's book \"Truth Doesn't Have a Side: My Alarming Discovery about the Danger of Contact Sports\" was published in August 2017 by HarperCollins. He previously wrote \"Play Hard, Die Young: Football Dementia, Depression, and Death\", published in 2008.\n\nOmalu is married to Prema Mutiso, originally from Kenya. They live in Elk Grove, CA and have two children, Ashly and Mark. He is a practicing Catholic and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in February 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49173270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49173270", "title": "Billy Kay filmography", "text": "Billy Kay filmography\n\nBilly Kay is an American actor and singer. As a baby, he first appeared in the 1987 comedy \"Three Men and a Baby\". He continued with uncredited roles in films such as \"Alice\" (1990) and several independent films. At the age of eleven, he starred in the stage musical \"Oliver!\" and appeared in more theatrical plays including \"The Who's Tommy\" and \"The Prince and the Pauper\".\n\nKay made his major screen debut with the role of Shayne Lewis on the CBS soap opera \"Guiding Light\", which earned him a nomination for a YoungStar Award for Best Young Actor in a Daytime TV Series.\n"}
{"id": "26068189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26068189", "title": "Boa Sr", "text": "Boa Sr\n\nBoa Sr (\"circa\" 1925 – 26 January 2010) was an Indian Great Andamanese elder. She was the last person fluent in the Aka-Bo language.\n\nBoa Sr is not to be confused with another Great Andamanese tribal member, Boa Jr; the two women were not directly related. Boa Jr's late mother, Boro (who was also the last speaker of her language, Aka-Kora) was Boa Sr's best friend and named her daughter in her honor.\n\nBoa was born around 1925. Her mother, To, belonged to the Bo people and her father, Renge, belonged to the Jeru people. Boa's early life was spent in Mayabunder, a town on Middle Andaman Island. She was married at a young age to Nao, another member of her father's people, although both he and their children predeceased her. She regarded the Jeru language as her mother tongue.\n\nBoa Sr. lived through the epidemic brought by the British to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, which devastated the Great Andamanese population, and also through the Japanese occupation of the Andaman Islands during World War II. In the 1970s, she and other Great Andamanese was forcibly relocated by the government of India to Strait Island, a small tribal reserve east of Baratang Island.\n\nBoa Sr. worked with Anvita Abbi, a professor of linguistics at Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi, since 2005. Abbi studied and recorded Boa's language and songs. Other members of the Great Andamanese speech community had difficulty understanding the songs and narratives which she knew in Bo. She also spoke the Andamanese dialect of Hindi, as well as Great Andamanese creole, a mix of the ten indigenous languages of Andamans.\n\nBoa Sr. survived the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake by climbing a tree. She later explained her escape from the tsunami saying, \"We were all there when the earthquake came. The eldest told us the Earth would part, don't run away or move.\"\n\nHer husband, Nao Jer, died several years before she did and the couple had no children. She suffered from some vision loss during her later life, but was considered to be in good health until shortly before her death in 2010.\n\nBoa Sr. died at a hospital in Port Blair on 26 January 2010. Boa Sr., who was approximately 85 years old, was the oldest living member of the Great Andamanese tribes at the time. Boa Sr.'s death left just 52 surviving Great Andamanese people in the world, none of whom remember any Bo. Their population is greatly reduced from the estimated 5,000 Great Andamanese living in the Andaman Islands at the time of the arrival of the British in 1858.\n\nStephen Corry, director of the British-based NGO Survival International, issued a statement saying, \"With the death of Boa Sr. and the extinction of the Bo language, a unique part of human society is now just a memory. Boa's loss is a bleak reminder that we must not allow this to happen to the other tribes of the Andaman Islands.\" Linguist Narayan Choudhary also explained what the loss of Boa Sr. meant in both academic and personal terms, \"Her loss is not just the loss of the Great Andamanese community, it is a loss of several disciplines of studies put together, including anthropology, linguistics, history, psychology, and biology. To me, Boa Sr. epitomised a totality of humanity in all its hues and with a richness that is not to be found anywhere else.\"\n"}
{"id": "672599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672599", "title": "Cyd Ho", "text": "Cyd Ho\n\nCyd Ho Sau-lan () is a former member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (Legco) for the Hong Kong Island constituency.\n\nShe is a founding member of the Labour Party, since December 2011, and currently holds the position of vice-chairwoman. Previously, she was a founding member of The Frontier, another pro-democracy political group. Since 2006, she has been a founding councillor of the World Future Council.\n\nShe has garnered a reputation for promoting universal suffrage, rule of law, human rights, and equal opportunity, as well as advancement in the interests of women, homosexuals and other minority groups.\n\nHo studied at the University of Waterloo, Canada. She worked in the textile trading industry from 1979 to 1995.\n\nIn 1991, Ho helped Emily Lau during the election campaign, the first open direct election of Legco in Hong Kong. In 1993, she founded the liberal pressure group \"United Ants\" with other pro-democracy political activists. In 1995, she worked as an assistant to Margaret Ng, a lawmaker representing the legal profession in Legco. In 1996, along with other political activists, she founded The Frontier.\n\nShe was elected a legislative councillor for the geographical constituency of New Territories East in 1998 in the first Legco election since the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong from the UK to China. She was re-elected in the c in 2000. She chaired bills committees such as the 2004 Education (Revised) Bill and the 2004 Examination Authority Bill, and was vice-chair of the panel on environmental affairs. She chaired the Sub-committee under the Home Affair Panel to study questions of discrimination based on sexual orientation between 2000 and 2004.\n\nShe was elected as a District Council member of the Central and Western district via the Kwun Lung (觀龍) constituency in November 2003, unseating veteran Ip Kwok-him of the DAB with a margin of 64 votes. She also supported members of other pro-democracy political groups such as Civic Act-up, which were also contesting seats in the Wanchai district council.\n\nIn 2004, she, together with James To Kun Sun, Frederick Fung Kin Kee, Wong Sing Chi, Mak Kwok Fung, attempted to cross the border and meet Beijing officials at Shenzhen, to request a faster pace of democratisation in Hong Kong.\n\nThe 2004 Legislative Council election returned candidates to office based on a party-list proportional representation system. There were four viable tickets running for election for the Hong Kong Island constituency. The left was represented by the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong's ticket, consisting of Ma Lik and Choy So-yuk; and the centrist ticket was represented by Rita Fan.\n\nThe pan-democratic camp decided, after strategising, to put up two tickets for election: the Democratic Party's ticket with Martin Lee and Yeung Sum, and Audrey Eu and Cyd Ho's ticket. The thinking was that the remainder vote on both these tickets was sufficient to return all four candidates to office, providing that voters in the pan-democratic camp were coordinated effectively. Cyd Ho was defeated by a slim margin (815 out of a total of about 350,000, or 0.23%) to her nearest DAB rival, Choy So-yuk.\n\nOriginally, the slogan \"1+1=4\" was taken as a way to strategically allocate votes between the two pan-democratic camp tickets, namely that a spouse from each couple would vote for each ticket. Conspiracy theorists claim that, during the final days leading up to the election, the Democratic Party believed it could secure a seat for their third candidate, Lai Chi-Keung. The Democratic Party hence allegedly requested all supporters of the pan-democratic camp in the Hong Kong Island geographical constituency to vote for them, claiming that Audrey Eu's star presence on the other ticket was strong enough to skew votes to the other ticket.\n\nIn the end, Lai ended up a few hundred votes short of Cyd Ho, costing them both the chance for a seat. This ultimately benefited Cyd Ho's DAB rival Choy So-yuk. A number of disgruntled voters of the pan-democratic camp demanded that then-DP chairman Yeung Sum and Founding chairman Martin Lee Chu-ming both step down in consequence. \n\nIn addition to remaining as a key member of the Frontier until 2006, Ho hosted weekly radio programmes on two local radio stations in 2006 – on RTHK and PRHK. She hosted a radio show on the internet radio station My Radio on Thursday nights (2200–2300 HKT).\n\nIn 2006, she quit the Frontier and became the chairperson of the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor and the co-convener of Project Civil Referendum, a scheme to pilot and promote the idea of holding a referendum in Hong Kong.\n\nIn 2007, when the death of Ma Lik vacated a Hong Kong Island Legislative Council seat, she originally decided to run in the by-election, but later she decided against. Also, she declined to stand again for her district council seat to prepare for her 2008 Legco election campaign.\n\nHo stood for and was returned in the Hong Kong Island geographical constituency for the Hong Kong legislative election, 2008. She finished with the fifth highest number of vote in the six-member constituency, 30,887, or 9.85%. Her running mate in 2004, Audrey Eu of the Civic Party, obtained 30,362.\n\nIn December 2011, after The Frontier had failed to pass its own resolution to dissolve, she joined with Lee Cheuk-yan, Cheung Kwok-che and others to form the Labour Party, taking up the position of vice-chairwoman. She was re-elected in 2012 elections.\n\nIn 2012, soon after Ho re-elected as member of Legco, she put forward a proposal calling for public consultation on legislation to outlaw discrimination based on sexual orientation. This proposal was supported by most of the pro-democrats and some pro-Beijing lawmakers, but was veto by Democratic Party lawmaker James To (who voted abstained) and pro-Beijing conservative parties. During her terms, Ho is one of only few legislators to openly support same-sex marriage and other LGBT rights, conservative parties and groups criticized her on this issue. Though most of the pro-democrats support non-discrimination laws, they are less openly discuss and talk about this issue, as the pro-democrats have many supporters with many social conservative views.\n\nShe lost in the Hong Kong legislative election, 2016 with 19,376 votes, placed ninth in the Hong Kong Island constituency, along with the former party chairman Lee Cheuk-yan, leaving the Labour Party only one representative in the legislature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49194930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49194930", "title": "Farid Fata", "text": "Farid Fata\n\nFarid T. Fata (\n"}
{"id": "34674216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34674216", "title": "Francesco Daverio", "text": "Francesco Daverio\n\nFrancesco Daverio (April 3, 1815 in Varese – June 3, 1849 in Rome) was a patriot of the Italian unification, Chief of Staff of the Roman Republic, and an engineer, who died on the Janiculum defending the \"Casino dei quattro venti\".\n\nDaverio took part in the Five Days of Milan in March 1848. In August 1848, he was sent by Giuseppe Mazzini to guide Giuseppe Garibaldi in the campaign in Varese. He fought in Luino and Morazzone in 1848. In 1849 he fought in Velletri and defended the Roman Republic.\nDaverio was born in Varese on April 3, 1815, to the farmer Giovan Battista, and his wife, Maria Cerutti. He completed his pre-college studies in Parabiago and Varese.\n\nIn 1834, he entered University of Pavia and on January 4, 1839 he graduated with a degree in Engineering and Architecture. He worked as an engineer at the Ponti engineering studio in Varese and at the prestigious Gerli engineering studio in Milan. He also was the director and superintendent of the assets of the noble Della Sala family of Varese. He worked for Ospedale Maggiore in Milan, where he also participated in the Five Days of Milan.\n\nDaverio's first meeting with Garibaldi took place on August 13, 1848, at Castelletto sopra Ticino. Garibaldi, who had arrived in June or May via Nice and Uruguay, started the Provisional Government of Lombardy, gathering 1300 volunteers to begin an uprising in Varese.\nOn August 9, 1848, Austria and Piedmont had signed the Salasco Armistice, which Garibaldi found unacceptable. Garibaldi was waiting for aid from Switzerland; Mazzini had promised him guns and 180 men. Only Daverio, the 33-year-old engineer from Varese, had arrived. Mazzini had sent him as a guide.\n\nThe small army marched during the night from Castelletto sopra Ticino to Arona. Garibaldi seized the steamboats \"San Carlo\" and \"Verbano\" in the port, which had been used by the postal service on the lake. They also seized nine other boats on the lake. They lade small pieces of artillery, 1,286 rations of bread and twenty bags of rice and landed in Luino at eight o'clock in the evening of August 14 with 800 men.\n\nThe campaign lasted fifteen days and, after the riots of Luino on August 15 and Morazzone on the 26th, revolution was in the air. Of the 800 men who had gone with him, only seventy followed Garibaldi to Switzerland. Daverio proved invaluable in guiding the retreat of the forces through the Campo dei Fiori in Brusimpiano, past the shores of Lake Lugano, and out of the country. With a long trip past Buguggiate, Capolago, Varese, Morosolo, Casciago, Velate, St. Ambrose, Bregazzana, the German Alps, and Borgnana Cavagna, the patrol arrived in the late evening of August 27 at Casamora, an isolated area between Brusimpiano and Porto.\n\nA plaque is still visible from the road along the lake showing the house Garibaldi, exhausted from the long march, slept in. The next night, Brusimpianesi barges carried a troop thinned to about thirty volunteers, defying the Austrian gunboat patrols. Garibaldi went to Agno and then Lugano. Those who had lost him would eventually reach Switzerland in small groups. Garibaldi's volunteers were not yet ready to take Italy.\n\nIn Lugano, Daverio didn't waste time and got in touch with his contacts from the uprising in Lombardy. After the riots started in the fall in Val d'Intelvi, he left Locarno on October 31 and landed in Germignaga, on the Lombardy side of Lake Maggiore, where it reaches Luino. He was greeted by the \"giunta nazionale d’insurrezione.\" Two Austrian columns rushed from Varese, the uprising failed, and Daverio retreated on the lake from which he came, this time destined for Piedmont.\nIn March 1849 he reappeared in Velletri. He died, defending Rome at the \"Casino dei quattro venti\" on June 3, 1849. Almost at the same time, another Varese Enrico Dandolo died at the Palazzo Corsini. Another young patriot and Varese native, Emilio Morosini, would also die on the Janiculum in June 1849.\n\nThe Varese technical institute for surveyors is named after him. There are streets named after him in Rome, Varese, and Milan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48270559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48270559", "title": "François Bazaramba", "text": "François Bazaramba\n\nFrançois Bazaramba (born Nshili, Gikongoro Province, Rwanda, 1 January 1951) is a Rwandan sentenced to life imprisonment in Finland for participating in the Rwandan genocide in 1994. While living in Rwanda, he worked as a teacher and a headmaster for a vocational school. Later he became a pastor in the Zambian Baptist Church. The \"Bazaramba\" case is historic in Finnish legal history because it was the first time anyone was sentenced under the section 1 of Chapter 11 of the Criminal Code since the international norms against genocide were implemented in national law.\n"}
{"id": "6132954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132954", "title": "Gashadokuro", "text": "Gashadokuro\n\nThe Gashadokuro are spirits that take the form of giant skeletons and are fifteen times taller than an average person, said to be created from the amassed bones of people who died of starvation or in battle, without being buried. These Yōkai roam after midnight, grabbing lone travelers and biting off their heads to drink their spraying blood. There is a way to know of their approach, as the victim would hear the sound of loud ringing in the ear. The Gashadokuro are said to possess the powers of invisibility and indestructibility; though Shinto charms are said to ward them off.\n\nThe Gashadokuro is a yōkai that first appeared in print in the later half of the 20th century. It was created by the authors of shonen magazines published from 1960 - 1970 and illustrated yōkai encyclopedias. Shigeaki Yamauchi's \"World's Bizarre Thriller Complete Works 2: Monsters of the World\" (Akita Shoten, 1968) compiled articles about yōkai by Saitō Ryokuu. At the same time, it was also picked up by Shigeru Mizuki and Satō Aribumi, and from their introduction the Gashadokuro became more widely known from 1980 on. \n\nThe illustration in Arabumi's \"Illustrated Encyclopedia of Japanese Yōkai\" (1972) and the illustration by Mizuki both base the appearance of the Gashadokuro on the giant skeleton in Utagawa Kuniyoshi's ukiyo-e print, \"Takiyasha the Witch and the Skeleton Spectre\". It has no direct connection to the Gashadokuro, but is said to have influenced modern depictions. Kuniyoshi's print was commissioned in the Edo period by Santō Kyōden for a yomihon, depicting a scene in which Taira no Masakado's daughter, Takiyasha-hime, summons a skeleton yōkai to attack the samurai Ooya Tarou Mitsukuni. Although originally described as many life-sized skeletons, Kuniyoshi depicted it as a single giant skeleton, as is characteristic of his work.\n\nIn the entry for Gashadokuro in Mizuki's book, a related tale from the \"Nihon Ryōiki\" is introduced. It tells of a man in Bingo Province (Hiroshima Prefecture) who is in a field at night and, hearing an eerie voice moaning, \"My eye hurts,\" finds a skeleton there with a bamboo shoot growing from its eye socket. He removes the bamboo shoot and offers the skeleton dried boiled rice, upon which the skeleton tells him the story of its murder and its personal history, and rewards him for his kindness. Though this tale has been conflated with that of the Gashadokuro, the two are in fact unrelated, the Gashadokuro having originated in the later half of the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17131955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17131955", "title": "Gene F. Franklin", "text": "Gene F. Franklin\n\nGene F. Franklin (July 25, 1927 – August 9, 2012) was an American electrical engineer and control theorist known for his pioneering work towards the advancement of the control systems engineering – a subfield of electrical engineering. Most of his work on control theory was adapted immediately into NASA's U.S. space program, most famously in the control systems for the Apollo missions to the moon in 1960s–70s. \n\nHe is also noted for his authorship of influential texts on the control system, most notably, \"Feedback Control of Dynamic Systems\", which has been translated into numerous of languages and has received literary prizes as the best book in the discipline of controls. \n\nFranklin was born in Banner Elk in North Carolina, United States, on July 25, 1927. His father was a professor of mathematics at the local college, and his mother was a nurse, an RN at the local hospital. He joined the United States Navy in 1945, serving in World War II, and was assigned to Navy's radar systems. He lost his enthusiasm for the navy after President Truman's decision of atomic bombings of Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. He took a transfer to study electronics and taught a course on electronics at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center. He took a discharge from the navy on medical grounds and joined Georgia Institute of Technology. \n\nHe received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1950, his M.S. in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1952, and his D.E. Sc. degree from Columbia University in 1955. \nFranklin's 1958 doctoral thesis “\"Sampled-Data Control Systems\"” (co-authored by Franklin's dissertation advisor, John R. Ragazzini) introduced digital control to a discipline which had previously operated almost exclusively in the analog domain. This breakthrough allowed control systems to become much more precise and reliable.\n\nHe taught at Columbia University from 1955 to 1957 before moving to Stanford University, where he was professor emeritus of electrical engineering until his death in August 2012. His research encompassed all aspects of control incorporating digital logic, including adaptive control of both nonlinear systems and systems with multiple-data sampling. He was a recipient of the Richard E. Bellman Control Heritage Award in 2005 for \"fundamental contributions to the theory and practice of digital, modern, adaptive, and multivariable control\". On August 9, 2012, he died at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto at the age of 85.\n\n"}
{"id": "52182936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52182936", "title": "Hanna Gharib", "text": "Hanna Gharib\n\nHanna Gharib (; born 28 ٍSeptember 1953) is a Lebanese politician and the current general secretary of the Lebanese Communist Party (LCP).\n\nHe was born in September 1953 in the city of Tripoli in Northern Lebanon to a poor family of six children. His father was a Lebanese army soldier. After the retirement of his father from the army, the family moved to Rahbeh, their original town in Akkar in the north where he joined its official primary and secondary school. \n\nDuring this period he joined the Union of Lebanese Democratic Youth, a secular left-wing youth organization where he met with communists who attracted him with their ideas of social justice and equality. He continued his university studies in the Lebanese University in Beirut where he studied Chemistry at the faculty of education.\n\nAfter graduation, Gharib became a public secondary teacher in Chemistry first in the city of Saida in the south where he taught Ibrahime Al-Amine, the current general director of Akhbar newspaper.\nAfterwards, he moved to teach in Beirut in the public and the private sectors. He remained an active teacher despite the big load that he had after becoming the Leader of the League of Public Secondary Teachers and later the coordinator of the Syndicate Coordination Committee that was formed between the union and leagues of public and private teachers and the public employees. Under his leadership, the unions organized continuous demonstrations demanding increases in the wages and proposing progressive taxes and more taxation on the interests and real estate companies. The popular movements lasted from 2012 till 2015 with diverse actions including sit-ins, demonstrations, and general strikes. In addition to the governmental and presidential palaces, the ministry of finance and the ministry of education, the demonstrations reached the economic ports of the country like the sea port and the airport.\n\nDue to escalating discourse and action against the government and persisting stances on the rights of the teachers and employees, the political parties loyal to the government formed a large coalition in the teachers syndicate elections to defeat Hanna Gharib and they succeeded in doing so after forming a list supported by 11 parties against the list of Gharib which got 46% of the votes despite all odds. This ended Gharib's career in the leadership of the unions.\n\nDuring this time, Gharib was a leading member of the Lebanese Communist Party where he raised in ranks to its central committee then its political bureau for two terms. With increased public presence and media coverage, he was a well-known public figure in Lebanon especially among the communists and left-wing supporters.\nAfter the party's 11th conference in April 2016, Gharib was elected by consensus as the general secretary of the party. He is the seventh leader of the party after Fuad Shemali, Farajallah el-Helou, Nicolas Shawi, George Hawi, Farouk Dahrouj and Khaled Hadadi.\n\nHanna Gharib is married to Wafaa Bitar, the daughter of Isber Bitar who was one of the historical figures of the Lebanese Communist Party. He has a son and a daughter named Walid and Hala.\n\n"}
{"id": "6983415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6983415", "title": "Hollister brothers", "text": "Hollister brothers\n\nThe Hollister brothers were three sailors in the United States Navy during World War II, who were killed in 1943. Unlike the Sullivan brothers, they were not all in the same unit.\n\nLyle Eugene Hollister, born 6 July 1923 in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, enlisted in the Navy on 26 March 1941 at Minneapolis, Minn. Radioman Second Class Hollister first served in \"Prairie\" (AD-15) before being assigned to \"Plunkett\" (DD-431) and \"Relief\" (AH-1). After duty at the Naval Station Key West, Hollister was reassigned to \"Plunkett\". He was reported missing in action as result of an engagement of \"Plunkett\" with enemy aircraft during the assault on Anzio, September 1943.\n\nTwo years younger than their brother, twins William Howard Hollister and Richard Jerome Hollister were born 22 November 1925 at Sioux Falls, S. Dak. They enlisted in the Navy 2 March 1943 at Minneapolis. Both were serving in \"Liscome Bay\" (CVE-56) when that carrier was torpedoed in the Gilbert Islands area 24 November 1943. William died from wounds received in this action; Richard was reported missing and presumed dead.\n\nAll three brothers were posthumously awarded the Purple Heart.\n\nIn 1945, the destroyer USS \"Hollister\" (DD-788) was named in their honor.\n"}
{"id": "9910719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9910719", "title": "Honoré Joseph Antoine Ganteaume", "text": "Honoré Joseph Antoine Ganteaume\n\nCount Honoré Joseph Antoine Ganteaume (13 April 1755 in La Ciotat – 28 July 1818 in Aubagne) was a French Navy officer and Vice-admiral.\n\nGanteaume started sailing on Indiamen, before serving during the American War of Independence in the fleets of Admiral d'Estaing and Suffren. At the French Revolution, he was promoted to command the 74-gun \"Trente-et-un Mai\", taking part in the Glorious First of June and the Croisière du Grand Hiver.\n\nGanteaume took part in the Expedition to Egypt, narrowly escaping death during the Battle of the Nile. There, he formed a personal relationship with General Bonaparte, who supported his promotion. He was made a Rear-Admiral and given command of a squadron to supply the Army of Egypt, but in Ganteaume's expeditions of 1801, he engaged in months of complicated maneuvers to elude the Royal Navy and eventually failed his mission.\n\nHe supplied the French forces of the Saint-Domingue expedition. During the Trafalgar Campaign, Ganteaume was to lead his squadron to the Caribbean to reinforce Villeneuve and Missiessy, but he was blockaded by British squadrons. Ganteaume held various offices during the late First French Empire, and gave his loyalty to Louis XVIII at the Bourbon Restoration.\n\nGanteaume was born in La Ciotat, into a family of merchant sailors. He started sailing at the age of 14 on a merchantman commanded by his father, and by the time he reached the age of 22, Ganteaume had accomplished five campaigns in the Middle East and two in the Caribbean. He served on the Mississippi Company Indiaman \"Fier Rodrigue\".\n\nIn 1778, with the intervention of France in the American Revolutionary War, Ganteaume enlisted in the French Royal Navy as an auxiliary officer, while \"Fier Rodrigue\" was purchased into naval service as a 54-gun ship of the line. \"Fier Rodrigue\" escorted a convoy to America, and attached to a division under Lamotte-Picquet in the fleet of Admiral d'Estaing.\n\nIn the fleet of Admiral d'Estaing, Ganteaume took part in the Capture of Grenada and in the Siege of Savannah. In 1781, he was promoted to auxiliary Frigate Lieutenant, and appointed to command the fluyt \"Marlborough\" in a convoy bound for the Indies and escorted by Suffren.\n\nFrom 1781 to 1785, Ganteaume served on the frigate \"Surveillante\" He was promoted to Fireship Captain in 1784, and sub-Lieutenant in 1786.\n\nUpon his return at the peace, Ganteaume was granted permission to return to the service of the Mississippi Company. He successively commanded the Indiamen \"Maréchal de Ségur\", bound for Chian, and \"Prince de Condé\" and \"Constitution\", bound for the Indies. In 1793, he was captured on an Indiaman and imprisoned by the British; released, he returned to the Navy, with the rank of Lieutenant. He served on the 74-gun \"Jupiter\" for a campaign in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nGanteaume was promoted to Captain in 1794, and was appointed to command the 74-gun \"Trente-et-un Mai\". During the Atlantic campaign of May 1794, he attempted to attach to the French fleet under Villaret-Joyeuse, but only joined late in the Glorious First of June; he took part in the last throes of the battle, where he was thrice wounded.\n\nIn the winter, Geanteaume led \"Trente-et-un Mai\" in the Croisière du Grand Hiver, and notably rescued the crew of the stricken \"Scipion\".\n\nIn 1795, \"Trente-et-un Mai\" sailed to the Mediterranean, and cruised off Catalonia; she sustained a two-hour battle against a Spanish ship of the line. On 18 April 1795, \"Trente-et-un Mai\" was renamed \"Républicain\". She attached to the fleet under Vice-Admiral Martin, and took part in the Battle of Hyères Islands.\n\nIn late 1795, Ganteaume was appointed to command a division in an expedition to Smyrna, comprising one ship of the line, four frigates and four corvettes. He sailed to Smyrna, where he lifted the blockade on Villeneuve's squadron, and captured the frigate HMS \"Nemesis\".\n\nIn 1796, returned to the Ocean, Ganteaume successful ran the British blockade of Brest and sailed a convoy carrying munitions into the harbour.\n\nAppointed Chief of staff to Rear-Admiral and Navy Minister Bruix, Ganteaume took part in the French campaign in Egypt and Syria on the flagship \"Orient\". He took part in the Battle of the Nile, where he was wounded, and narrowly escaped death when he left the burning \"Orient\" on a boat. \"Orient\" exploded soon after.\n\nPromoted to Rear-Admiral upon request of General Bonaparte, Ganteaume led the flotilla of small ships of the Nile River, taking part in the Siege of Jaffa, the Siege of Acre and the Battle of Abukir.\n\nOn 22 August 1799, Ganteaume departed Alexandria with the frigates \"Muiron\" and \"Carrère\", the aviso \"Revanche\" and a tartane, ferrying General Bonaparte back to France. Bonaparte ordered the ships to sail close to the shore of Africa to elude British squadrons, and landed in Corsica, to finally arrive at Fréjus on 2 October.\n\nAfter arriving in France, Bonaparte, as First Consul, appointed Ganteaume to the Council of State, in which he presided the section of the Navy.\n\nIn 1801, Ganteaume was appointed to command a seven-ship division in Brest, tasked with ferrying supplies and 5000 soldiers to the French Army of Egypt. After successfully crossing British-held Gibraltar, Ganteaume cruised in the Mediterranean for six months to elude the British fleet.\n\nGanteaume returned to Toulon to resupply and repair his ships. In the following months, he attempted three sorties, once arriving off Alexandria without landing: when he finally arrived near Egypt, actually Derna, Libya, in June 1800, the troops did not land, due to the hostility of the locals and the British naval threat.\n\nGanteaume eventually renounced and defiantly returned to Toulon, after capturing Elba and four British ships, including the 38-gun frigate HMS \"Success\", and in the Action of 24 June 1801, the 74-gun HMS \"Swiftsure\", but failing his mission to supply the French armies in the Middle East.\n\nGanteaume's tergiversations motivated the satirical poem:\nAfter the Treaty of Lunéville ended the War of the Second Coalition in early 1801, Ganteaume was tasked with supporting the French forces involved in the Saint-Domingue expedition. In 1802, Ganteaume was appointed Maritime Prefect for Toulon.\n\nAt the outbreak of the War of the Third Coalition the year after, and with the Coronation of Napoleon I and the advent of the First French Empire on 2 December 1804, Ganteaume was promoted to Vice-Admiral, made a Count of the Empire, and appointed to command the fleet in Brest.\n\nIn 1805, after the death of Vice-Admiral Latouche-Tréville and the outbreak of the Trafalgar Campaign, Napoléon briefly considered entrusting Ganteaume with an expedition to land an 18 000-man army in Ireland, in a move similar to what had been attempted in 1796 with the ill-fated Expédition d'Irlande; eventually, Ganteaume was ordered to the Caribbean to land reinforcements there and return to Europe with the fleets under Rear-Admiral Missiessy and Vice-Admiral Villeneuve.\n\nAdverse weather prevented Ganteaume from leaving Brest, and he finally departed one month after Missiessy. In transit, Ganteaume bumped into the British Channel Fleet under Admiral Cornwallis and retreated to Brest, where he ended up hermetically blocked. Informed of the Battle of Cape Finisterre, Ganteaume was ordered to break into the Ocean by force to make his junction with Villeneuve; however, Villeneuve's port call to Cadiz thwarted this plan.\n\nIn 1808, Ganteaume took command of the French squadrons of Toulon and Rochefort, joined together at Toulon, with the aim to \nferry supplies to Corfu, then blockaded by the Royal Navy. He departed Toulon in early February, successfully escorted his convoy into Corfu harbour, and returned to Toulon in April. In February on the following year, he authorised the frigates \"Pénélope\" and \"Pauline\" to chase HMS \"Proserpine\", yielding the Action of 27 February 1809 in which \"Proserpine\" was captured and brought to Toulon.\n\nIn June 1808, Ganteaume was appointed General Inspector of the Coasts of the Ocean. From 1809 to 1810, Ganteaume was appointed to command the fleet in Toulon, but attacks to gout kept him increasingly away from the sea. In 1810, he joined the Council of the Admiralty. On 1 August 1811, Napoléon appointed Ganteaume to command the battalion of the Marins de la Garde in the Imperial Guard as a Colonel. In 1813, he defended Toulon.\n\nIn 1814, at the first Bourbon Restoration, Ganteaume supported the Acte de déchéance de l'Empereur, and in consequence did not return to command during the Hundred Days; immediately after the Battle of Waterloo, he ordered the Royalist white flag hoisted in Toulon; this act got him almost killed.\n\nRestored to power again, Louis XVIII made Ganteaume a Peer of France in recognition for his support. In December 1815, he was promoted to Commander in the Order of Saint Louis, and appointed General Inspector of the Classes. In his capacity of Peer of France, Ganteaume took part in the trial of Marshal Ney, and voted for his execution.\n\nGanteaume died at his property of Pauline, near Aubagne, on 28 September 1818.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390102", "title": "Ibn al-Khattab", "text": "Ibn al-Khattab\n\nSamir Saleh Abdullah (; 14 April 1969 – 20 March 2002), more commonly known as Ibn al-Khattab or Emir Khattab (also transliterated as Amir Khattab and Ameer Khattab, meaning Commander Khattab, or Leader Khattab), was a Saudi Arabian-born leader in the First Chechen War and the Second Chechen War.\n\nThe origins and real identity of Khattab remained a mystery to most until after his death, when his brother gave an interview to the press. He died on 20 March 2002 following exposure to a poison letter delivered via a courier who had been recruited by Russia's Federal Security Service.\n\nKhattab was born in Arar, Saudi Arabia and of partial Circassian origin.\n\nAt the age of 18, Khattab left Saudi Arabia to participate in the fight against the Soviet Union during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. During this time, he permanently incapacitated his right hand and lost several fingers after an accident with improvised explosives. The injury was treated with honey by Khattab on himself.\n\nKhattab, while the leader of Islamic International Brigade, publicly admitted that he spent the period between 1989 and 1994 in Afghanistan and that he had met Osama Bin Laden. In March 1994, Khattab arrived in Afghanistan and toured fighter training camps in Khost province. He returned to Afghanistan with the first group of Chechen militants in May 1994. Khattab underwent training in Afghanistan and had close connections with al-Qaeda. Several hundred Chechens eventually trained in al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan.\n\nArmenian sources claim that in 1992 he was one of many Chechen volunteers who aided Azerbaijan in the embattled region of Nagorno-Karabakh, where he allegedly met Shamil Basayev. However, the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense denied any involvement by Khattab in the Nagorno-Karabakh war.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1995, Khattab left to fight alongside Islamic opposition in the Tajikistan Civil War. Before leaving for Tajikistan in 1994, al-Khattab gave Abdulkareem Khadr a pet rabbit of his own, which was promptly named Khattab.\n\nIn an interview, Khattab once mentioned he had also been involved in the War in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fragment of this interview in which he makes this statement can be found in the 2004 BBC documentary \"The Smell of Paradise\", though he did not specify his exact role or the duration of his presence there.\n\nAccording to Khattab's brother, he first heard about the Chechen conflict on an Afghan television channel in 1995; that same year, he entered Chechnya, posing as a television reporter. He was credited as being a pioneer in producing video footage of Chechen rebel combat operations in order to aid fundraising efforts and demoralize the enemy.\n\nDuring the First Chechen War, Khattab participated in fighting Russian forces and acted as an intermediary financier between foreign Muslim funding sources and the local fighters. To help secure funding and spread the message of resistance, he was frequently accompanied by at least one cameraman.\n\nHis units were credited with several devastating ambushes on Russian columns in the Chechen mountains. His first action was the October 1995 ambush of a Russian convoy which killed 47 soldiers. Khattab gained early fame and a great notoriety in Russia for his April 1996 ambush of a large armored column in a narrow gorge of Yaryshmardy, near Shatoy, which killed up to 100 soldiers and destroyed some two or three dozen vehicles. In another ambush, near Vedeno, at least 28 Russian troops were killed.\n\nIn the course of the war, Shamil Basayev became his closest ally and personal friend. He was also associated with Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev, who gave Khattab two of the highest Chechen military awards, the Order of Honor and the Brave Warrior medal, and promoted him to the rank of general.\n\nA senior Chechen commander by the name of Izmailov told press how Khattab urged restraint, citing the Koran, when at the end of the war the Chechens wanted to shoot those they considered traitors.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the war, Khattab, by then wanted by Interpol on Russia's request, became a prominent warlord and commanded the Arab Mujahideen in Chechnya, his own private army with a group of Arabs, Turks and other foreign fighters who had come to participate in the war. He set up a network of paramilitary camps in the mountainous parts of the republic that trained not only Chechens, but also Muslims from the North Caucasian Russian republics and Central Asia.\n\nOn 22 December 1997, over a year after the signing of the Khasav-Yurt treaty and the end of the first war in Chechnya, the Arab mujahideen and a group of Dagestani rebels raided the base of the 136th Armoured Brigade of the 58th Division of the Russian Army in Buinaksk, Dagestan.\n\nIn 1998, along with Shamil Basayev, Khattab created the Islamic International Peacekeeping Brigade (IIPB) group (also known as the Islamic Peacekeeping Army). In August–September 1999, they led the IIPB's incursions into Dagestan, which resulted in the deaths of at least several hundred people and effectively started the Second Chechen War.\n\nA Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) investigation named Khattab as the mastermind behind the September 1999 Russian apartment bombings. However, on 14 September 1999, Khattab told the Russian Interfax news agency in Grozny that he had nothing to do with the Moscow explosions; he was quoted as saying, \"We would not like to be akin to those who kill sleeping civilians with bombs and shells.\"\n\nThe conclusion by the FSB remains controversial. Some researchers, such as Johns Hopkins University/Hoover Institute scholar David Satter, came to conclusion that the bombings were in fact a \"false flag\" attack perpetrated by the FSB in order to legitimate the resumption of military activities in Chechnya.\n\nDuring the course of the war, Khattab participated in leading his militia against Russian forces in Chechnya, as well as managing the influx of foreign fighters and money (and, according to the Russian officials, also planning of attacks in Russia).\n\nHe led or commanded several devastating attacks, such as the mountain battle, which killed at least 84 Russian paratroopers, and the attack on the OMON convoy near Zhani-Vedeno, which killed at least 52 Russian Interior Ministry troops.\n\n\"Khattab was falsely reported dead when Guantanamo captive Omar Mohammed Ali Al Rammah faced the allegations that he witnessed Khattab being killed in an ambush in Duisi, a village in the Pankisi Gorge of Georgia on 28 April 2002.\"\n\nKhattab later survived a heavy-calibre bullet wound to the stomach and a landmine explosion. He was killed during the night of 19–20 March 2002, when a Dagestani messenger hired by the Russian FSB gave Khattab a poisoned letter. Chechen sources said that the letter was coated with \"a fast-acting nerve agent, possibly sarin or a derivative\". The messenger, a Dagestani double agent known as Ibragim Alauri, was turned by the FSB on his routine courier mission. Khattab would receive letters from his mother in Saudi Arabia, and the FSB found this to be the most opportune moment to kill Khattab. It was reported that the operation to recruit and turn Ibragim Alauri to work for the FSB and deliver the poisoned letter took some six months of preparation. Alauri was reportedly tracked down and killed a month later in Baku, Azerbaijan on Shamil Basayev's orders. Ibn Al-Khattab was succeeded by Emir Abu al-Walid.\n\n\"Khattabka\" (хаттабка) is now a popular Russian and Chechen name for a homemade hand grenade.\n\nAccording to Fawaz Gerges who cited Abu Walid al Masri's diaries, Ibn al-Khattab and Osama bin Laden operated separate groups, as they defined the enemy differently, but tried to pull each other to their own battle plans. A part of bin Laden's interest was trying to obtain dirty bombs from the Russian arsenal through al-Khattab's contacts.\n\nAccording to Richard A. Clarke, \"Bin Laden sent Afghan Arab veterans, money, and arms to fellow Saudi ibn Khatab in Chechnya, which seemed like a perfect theater for jihad.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3280482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280482", "title": "Ion Heliade Rădulescu", "text": "Ion Heliade Rădulescu\n\nIon Heliade Rădulescu or Ion Heliade (also known as \"Eliad\"e or \"Eliade Rădulescu\"; ; January 6, 1802 – April 27, 1872) was a Wallachian, later Romanian academic, Romantic and Classicist poet, essayist, memoirist, short story writer, newspaper editor and politician. A prolific translator of foreign literature into Romanian, he was also the author of books on linguistics and history. For much of his life, Heliade Rădulescu was a teacher at Saint Sava College in Bucharest, which he helped reopen. He was a founding member and first president of the Romanian Academy.\n\nHeliade Rădulescu is considered one of the foremost champions of Romanian culture from the first half of the 19th century, having first risen to prominence through his association with Gheorghe Lazăr and his support of Lazăr's drive for discontinuing education in Greek. Over the following decades, he had a major role in shaping the modern Romanian language, but caused controversy when he advocated the massive introduction of Italian neologisms into the Romanian lexis. A Romantic nationalist landowner siding with moderate liberals, Heliade was among the leaders of the 1848 Wallachian revolution, after which he was forced to spend several years in exile. Adopting an original form of conservatism, which emphasized the role of the aristocratic boyars in Romanian history, he was rewarded for supporting the Ottoman Empire and clashed with the radical wing of the 1848 revolutionaries.\n\nHeliade Rădulescu was born in Târgovişte, the son of Ilie Rădulescu, a wealthy proprietor who served as the leader of a patrol unit during the 1810s, and Eufrosina Danielopol, who had been educated in Greek. Three of his siblings died of bubonic plague before 1829. Throughout his early youth, Ion was the focus of his parents' affectionate supervision: early on, Ilie Rădulescu purchased a house once owned by the scholar Gheorghe Lazăr on the outskirts of Bucharest (near Obor), as a gift for his son. At the time, the Rădulescus were owners of a large garden in the Bucharest area, nearby Herăstrău, as well as of estates in the vicinity of Făgăraş and Gârbovi.\n\nAfter basic education in Greek with a tutor known as Alexe, Ion Heliade Rădulescu taught himself reading in Romanian Cyrillic (reportedly by studying the \"Alexander Romance\" with the help of his father's Oltenian servants). He subsequently became an avid reader of popular novels, especially during his 1813 sojourn in Gârbovi (where he had been sent after other areas of the country came to be ravaged by \"Caragea's plague\"). After 1813, the teenaged Rădulescu was a pupil of the Orthodox monk Naum Râmniceanu; in 1815, he moved on to the Greek school at Schitu Măgureanu, in Bucharest, and, in 1818, to the Saint Sava School, where he studied under Gheorghe Lazăr's supervision.\nBetween his 1820 graduation and 1821, when effects of the Wallachian uprising led to the School ceasing its activities, he was kept as Lazăr's assistant teacher, tutoring in arithmetics and geometry. It was during those years that he adopted the surname \"Heliade\" (also rendered \"Heliad\", \"Eliad\" or \"Eliade\"), which, he later explained, was a Greek version of his patronymic, in turn stemming from the Romanian version of \"Elijah\".\n\nIn 1822, after Gheorghe Lazăr had fallen ill, Heliade reopened Saint Sava and served as its main teacher (initially, without any form of remuneration). He was later joined in this effort by other intellectuals of the day, such as Eufrosin Poteca, and, eventually, also opened an art class overseen by the Croat Carol Valştain. This re-establishment came as a result of ordinances issued by Prince Grigore IV Ghica, who had just been assigned by the Ottoman Empire to the throne of Wallachia upon the disestablishment of Phanariote rule, encouraging the marginalization of ethnic Greeks who had assumed public office in previous decades. Thus, Prince Ghica had endorsed education in Romanian and, in one of his official \"firmans\", defined teaching in Greek as \"the foundation of evils\" (\"temelia răutăţilor\").\n\nDuring the late 1820s, Heliade became involved in cultural policies. In 1827, he and Dinicu Golescu founded \"Soţietatea literară românească\" (the Romanian Literary Society), which, through its program (mapped out by Heliade himself), proposed Saint Sava's transformation into a college, the opening of another such institution in Craiova, and the creation of schools in virtually all Wallachian localities. In addition, \"Soţietatea\" attempted to encourage the establishment of Romanian-language newspapers, calling for an end to the state monopoly on printing presses. The grouping, headquartered on central Bucharest's Podul Mogoşoaiei, benefited from Golescu's experience abroad, and was soon joined by two future Princes, Gheorghe Bibescu and Barbu Dimitrie Ştirbei. Its character was based on Freemasonry; around that time, Heliade is known to have become a Freemason, as did a large section of his generation.\n\nIn 1828, Heliade published his first work, an essay on Romanian grammar, in the Transylvanian city of Hermannstadt (which was part of the Austrian Empire at the time), and, on April 20, 1829, began printing the Bucharest-based paper \"Curierul Românesc\". This was the most successful of several attempts to create a local newspaper, something Golescu first attempted in 1828. Publishing articles in both Romanian and French, \"Curierul Românesc\" had, starting in 1836, its own literary supplement, under the title of \"Curier de Ambe Sexe\"; in print until 1847, it notably published one of Heliade's most famous poems, \"Zburătorul\". \"Curierul Românesc\" was edited as a weekly, and later as a bimonthly, until 1839, when it began to be issued three or four times a week. Its best-known contributors were Heliade himself, Grigore Alexandrescu, Costache Negruzzi, Dimitrie Bolintineanu, Ioan Catina, Vasile Cârlova, and Iancu Văcărescu.\n\nIn 1823, Heliade met Maria Alexandrescu, with whom he fell passionately in love, and whom he later married. By 1830, the Heliades' two children, a son named Virgiliu and a daughter named Virgilia, died in infancy; subsequently, their marriage entered a long period of crisis, marked by Maria's frequent outbursts of jealousy. Ion Heliade probably had a number of extramarital affairs: a Wallachian Militia officer named Zalic, who became known during the 1840s, is thought by some, including the literary critic George Călinescu, to have been the writer's illegitimate son. Before the death of her first child, Maria Heliade welcomed into her house Grigore Alexandrescu, himself a celebrated writer, whom Ion suspected had become her lover. Consequently, the two authors became bitter rivals: Ion Heliade referred to Alexandrescu as \"that ingrate\", and, in an 1838 letter to George Bariţ, downplayed his poetry and character (believing that, in one of his fables, Alexandrescu had depicted himself as a nightingale, he commented that, in reality, he was \"a piteous rook dressed in foreign feathers\"). Despite these household conflicts, Maria Heliade gave birth to five other children, four daughters and one son (Ion, born 1846).\n\nIn October 1830, together with his uncle Nicolae Rădulescu, he opened the first privately owned printing press in his country, operating on his property at \"Cişmeaua Mavrogheni\", in Obor (the land went by the name of \"Câmpul lui Eliad\"—\"Eliad's Field\", and housed several other large buildings). Among the first works he published was a collection of poems by Alphonse de Lamartine, translated by Heliade from French, and grouped together with some of his own poems. Later, he translated a textbook on meter and Louis-Benjamin Francoeur's standard manual of \"Arithmetics\", as well as works by Enlightenment authors—Voltaire's \"Mahomet, ou le fanatisme\", and stories by Jean-François Marmontel. They were followed, in 1839, by a version of Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Julie, or the New Heloise\".\n\nHeliade began a career as a civil servant after the \"Postelnicie\" commissioned him to print the \"Official Bulletin\", and later climbed through the official hierarchy, eventually serving as \"Clucer\". This rise coincided with the establishment of the \"Regulamentul Organic\" regime, inaugurated, upon the end of the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–1829, by an Imperial Russian administration under Pavel Kiselyov. When Kiselyov placed an order with Heliade for the printing of official documents, including the \"Regulament\", the writer and his family were made prosperous by the sales. Nevertheless, Heliade maintained contacts with the faction of reformist boyars: in 1833, together with Ion Câmpineanu, Iancu Văcărescu, Ioan Voinescu II, Constantin Aristia, Ştefan and Nicolae Golescu, as well as others, he founded the short-lived \"Soţietatea Filarmonică\" (the Philharmonic Society), which advanced a cultural agenda (and was especially active in raising funds for the National Theater of Wallachia). Aside from its stated cultural goals, \"Soţietatea Filarmonică\" continued a covert political activity.\n\nIn 1834, when Prince Alexandru II Ghica came to the throne, Heliade became one of his close collaborators, styling himself \"court poet\". Several of the poems and discourses he authored during the period are written as panegyrics, and dedicated to Ghica, whom Heliade depicted as an ideal prototype of a monarch. As young reformists came into conflict with the prince, he kept his neutrality, arguing that all sides involved represented a privileged minority, and that the disturbances were equivalent to \"the quarrel of wolves and the noise made by those in higher positions over the torn-apart animal that is the peasant\". He was notably critical of the radical Mitică Filipescu, whom he satirized in the poem \"Căderea dracilor\" (\"The Demons' Fall\"), and later defined his own position with the words \"I hate tyrants. I fear anarchy\".\n\nIt was also in 1834 that Heliade began teaching at the \"Soţietatea Filarmonică\"'s school (alongside Aristia and the musician Ioan Andrei Wachmann), and published his first translations from Lord Byron (in 1847, he completed the translation of Byron's \"Don Juan\"). The next year, he began printing \"Gazeta Teatrului Naţional\" (official voice of the National Theater, published until 1836), and translated Molière's \"Amphitryon\" into Romanian. In 1839, Heliade also translated Miguel de Cervantes' \"Don Quixote\" from a French source. The first collection of his own prose and poetry works saw print in 1836. Interested in the development of local art, he contributed a brochure on drawing and architecture in 1837, and, during the same year, opened the first permanent exhibit in Wallachia (featuring copies of Western paintings, portraits, and gypsum casts of various known sculptures).\n\nBy the early 1840s, Heliade began expanding on his notion that modern Romanian needed to emphasize its connections with other Romance languages through neologisms from Italian, and, to this goal, he published (\"Parallelism between the Romanian language and Italian\", 1840) and (\"Parallelism between the Romanian and Italian Dialects or the Form or Grammar of These Two Dialects\", 1841). The two books were followed by a compendium, \"Prescurtare de gramatica limbei româno-italiene\" (\"Summary of the Grammar of the Romanian-Italian Language\"), and, in 1847, by a comprehensive list of Romanian words that had originated in Slavic, Greek, Ottoman Turkish, Hungarian, and German (\"see Romanian lexis\"). By 1846, he was planning to begin work on a \"universal library\", which was to include, among other books, the major the philosophical writings of, among others, Plato, Aristotle, Roger Bacon, René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, John Locke, Gottfried Leibniz, David Hume, Immanuel Kant, Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\nBefore Alexandru Ghica was replaced with Gheorghe Bibescu, his relations with Heliade had soured. In contrast with his earlier call for moderation, the writer decided to side with the liberal current in its conspiratorial opposition to Bibescu. The so-called \"Trandafiloff affair\" of early 1844 was essential in this process—it was provoked by Bibescu's decision to lease all Wallachian mines to a Russian engineer named Alexander Trandafiloff, a measure considered illegal by the Assembly and ultimately ending in Bibescu's decision to dissolve his legislative. These events made Heliade publish a pamphlet titled \"Măceşul\" (\"The Eglantine\"), which was heavily critical of Russian influence and reportedly sold over 30,000 copies. It was centered on the pun alluding to Trandafiloff's name—\"trandafir cu of în coadă\" (lit. \"a rose ending in -of\", but also \"a rose with grief for a stem\"). Making additional covert reference to Trandafiloff as \"the eglantine\", it featured the lyrics: \n\nIn spring 1848, when the first European revolutions had erupted, Heliade was attracted into cooperation with \"Frăţia\", a secret society founded by Nicolae Bălcescu, Ion Ghica, Christian Tell, and Alexandru G. Golescu, and sat on its leadership committee. He also collaborated with the reform-minded French teacher Jean Alexandre Vaillant, who was ultimately expelled after his activities were brought to the attention of authorities. On April 19, 1848, following financial setbacks, \"Curierul Românesc\" ceased printing (this prompted Heliade to write \"Cântecul ursului\", \"The Bear's Song\", a piece ridiculing his political enemies).\n\nHeliade progressively distanced himself from the more radical groups, especially after discussions began on the issue of land reform and the disestablishment of the boyar class. Initially, he accepted the reforms, and, after the matter was debated within \"Frăţia\" just before rebellion broke out, he issued a resolution acknowledging this (the document was probably inspired by Nicolae Bălcescu). The compromise also set other goals, including national independence, responsible government, civil rights and equality, universal taxation, a larger Assembly, five-year terms of office for Princes (and their election by the National Assembly), freedom of the press, and decentralization. On June 21, 1848, present in Islaz alongside Tell and the Orthodox priest known as Popa Şapcă, he read out these goals to a cheering crowd, in what was to be the effective start of the uprising (\"see Proclamation of Islaz\"). Four days after the Islaz events, the revolution succeeded in toppling Bibescu, whom it replaced with a Provisional Government which immediately attracted Russian hostility. Presided over by Metropolitan Neofit, it included Heliade, who was also Minister of Education, as well as Tell, Ştefan Golescu, Gheorghe Magheru, and, for a short while, the Bucharest merchant Gheorghe Scurti.\n\nDisputes regarding the shape of land reform continued, and in late July, the Government created \"Comisia proprietăţii\" (the Commission on Property), representing both peasants and landlords and overseen by Alexandru Racoviţă and Ion Ionescu de la Brad. It too failed to reach a compromise over the amount of land to be allocated to peasants, and it was ultimately recalled by Heliade, who indicated that the matter was to be deliberated once a new Assembly had been voted into office. In time, the writer adopted a conservative outlook in respect to boyar tradition, developing a singular view of Romanian history from a consideration of property and rank in Wallachia. In the words of historian Nicolae Iorga: \"Eliad had wanted to lead, as dictator, this movement that added liberal institutions to the old society that had been almost completely maintained in place\".\n\nLike most other revolutionaries, Heliade favored maintaining good relations with the Ottoman Empire, Wallachia's suzerain power, hoping that this policy could help counter Russian pressures. As Sultan Abdülmecid I was assessing the situation, Süleyman Paşa was dispatched to Bucharest, where he advised the revolutionaries to carry on with their diplomatic efforts, and ordered the Provisional Government to be replaced by \"Locotenenţa domnească\", a triumvirate of regents comprising Heliade, Tell, and Nicolae Golescu. Nonetheless, the Ottomans were pressured by Russia into joining a clampdown on revolutionary forces, which resulted, during September, in the reestablishment of \"Regulamentul Organic\" and its system of government. Together with Tell, Heliade sought refuge at the British consulate in Bucharest, where they were hosted by Robert Gilmour Colquhoun in exchange for a deposit of Austrian florins.\n\nLeaving his family behind, he was allowed to pass into the Austrian-ruled Banat, before moving into self-exile in France while his wife and children were sent to Ottoman lands. In 1850–1851, several of his memoirs of the revolution, written in both Romanian and French, were published in Paris, the city where he had taken residence. He shared his exile with Tell and Magheru, as well as with Nicolae Rusu Locusteanu.\n\nIt was during his time in Paris that he met with Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, the anarchist philosopher who had come to advance a moderate small-scale property project (to counter both economic liberalism and socialism). Heliade used this opportunity to make the Romanian cause known to the staff of Proudhon's \"La Voix de Peuple\". Major French publications to which he contributed included \"La Presse\", \"La Semaine\", and \"Le Siècle\", where he also helped publicize political issues pertaining to his native land. Heliade was credited with having exercised influence over historian Élias Regnault; Nicolae Iorga argued that Regnault's discarded his own arguments in favor of a unified Romanian state to include Transylvania (a concept which Heliade had come to resent), as well amending his earlier account of the 1848 events, after being exposed to \"Eliad's propaganda\".\n\nWhile claiming to represent the entire body of Wallachian \"émigrés\", Heliade had by then grown disappointed with the political developments, and, in his private correspondence, commented that Romanians in general were \"idle\", \"womanizing\", as well as having \"the petty and base envies of women\", and argued that they required \"supervision [and] leadership\". His fortune was declining, especially after pressures began for him to pay his many debts, and he often lacked the funds for basic necessities. At the time, he continuously clashed with other former revolutionaries, including Bălcescu, C. A. Rosetti, and the Golescus, who resented his ambiguous stance in respect to reforms, and especially his willingness to accept \"Regulamentul Organic\" as an instrument of power; Heliade issued the first in a series of pamphlets condemning young radicals, contributing to factionalism inside the \"émigré\" camp. His friendship with Tell also soured, after Heliade began speculating that the revolutionary general was committing adultery with Maria.\n\nIn 1851, Heliade reunited with his family on the island of Chios, where they stayed until 1854. Following the evacuation of Russian troops from the Danubian Principalities during the Crimean War, Heliade was appointed by the Porte to represent the Romanian nation in Shumen, as part of Omar Pasha's staff. Again expressing sympathy for the Ottoman cause, he was rewarded with the title of \"Bey\". According to Iorga, Heliade's attitudes reflected his hope of \"recovering the power lost\" in 1848; the historian also stressed that Omar never actually made use of Heliade's services.\n\nLater in the same year, he decided to return to Bucharest, but his stay was cut short when the Austrian authorities, who, under the leadership of Johann Coronini-Cronberg, had taken over administration of the country as a neutral force, asked for him to be expelled. Returning to Paris, Heliade continued to publish works on political and cultural issues, including an analysis of the European situation after the Peace Treaty of 1856 and an 1858 essay on the Bible. In 1859, he published his own translation of the Septuagint, under the name \"Biblia sacră ce cuprinde Noul şi Vechiul Testament\" (\"The Holy Bible, Comprising the New and Old Testament\").\n\nAs former revolutionaries, grouped in the \"Partida Naţională\" faction, advanced the idea of union between Wallachia and Moldavia in election for the \"ad hoc\" Divan, Heliade opted not to endorse any particular candidate, while rejecting outright the candidature of former prince Alexandru II Ghica (in a private letter, he stated: \"let them elect whomever [of the candidates for the throne], for he would still have the heart of a man and some principles of a Romanian; only don't let that creature [Ghica] be elected, for he is capable of going to the dogs with this country\").\n\nLater in 1859, Heliade returned to Bucharest, which had become the capital of the United Principalities after the common election of Alexandru Ioan Cuza and later that of an internationally recognized Principality of Romania. It was during that period that he again added \"Rădulescu\" to his surname. Until his death, he published influential volumes on a variety of issues, while concentrating on contributions to history and literary criticism, and editing a new collection of his own poems. In 1863, \"Domnitor\" Cuza awarded him an annual pension of 2,000 lei.\n\nOne year after the creation of the Romanian Academy (under the name of \"Academic Society\"), he was elected its first President (1867), serving until his death. In 1869, Heliade and Alexandru Papiu-Ilarian successfully proposed the Italian diplomat and philologist Giovenale Vegezzi Ruscalla as honorary member of the Academy. By then, like most other 1848 Romantics, he had become the target of criticism from the younger generation of intellectuals, represented by the Iaşi-based literary society \"Junimea\"; in 1865, during one of its early public sessions, \"Junimea\" explicitly rejected works by Heliade and Iancu Văcărescu.\n\nDuring the elections of 1866, Heliade Rădulescu won a seat in the Chamber as a deputy for the city of Târgovişte. As Cuza had been ousted from power by a coalition of political groupings, he was the only Wallachian deputy to join Nicolae Ionescu and other disciples of Simion Bărnuţiu in opposing the appointment of Carol of Hohenzollern as \"Domnitor\" and a proclamation stressing the perpetuity of the Moldo-Wallachian union. Speaking in Parliament, he likened the adoption of foreign rule to the Phanariote period. The opposition was nevertheless weak, and the resolution was passed with a large majority.\n\nAmong Ion Heliade Rădulescu's last printed works were a textbook on poetics (1868) and a volume on Romanian orthography. By that time, he had come to consider himself a prophet-like figure, and the redeemer of his motherland, notably blessing his friends with the words \"Christ and Magdalene be with you!\" His mental health declining, he died at his Bucharest residence on Polonă Street, nr. 20. Heliade Rădulescu's grandiose funeral ceremony attracted a large number of his admirers; the coffin was buried in the courtyard of the Mavrogheni Church.\n\nHeliade's most influential contributions are related to his interest in developing the modern Romanian language, in which he synthesized Enlightenment tenets and Romantic nationalist ideals of the 1848 generation. At a time when Romanian was being discarded by the educated in favor of French or Greek, he and his supporters argued in favor of adapting Romanian to the requirements of modernization; he wrote: \"Young people, preoccupy yourselves with the national language, speak and write in it; prepare yourselves for its study, for its cultivation,—and cultivating a language means to write in it about all sciences and arts, about all eras and peoples. The language alone unites, strengthens and defines a nation; preoccupy yourselves with it first and foremost, as, through this, you shall be carrying out the most fundamental of policies, you shall be laying the foundation of nationality\".\n\nHeliade inaugurated his series of proposals for reforming the language in 1828, when his work on Romanian grammar called for the Cyrillic script to be reduced to 27 letters, reflecting phonetic spelling (for this rule, Heliade cited the example of the Latin alphabet as used in Ancient Rome). Soon after, he began a campaign in favor of introducing Romance neologisms, which he wanted to adapt to Romanian spelling. By that time, Romanians in various regions had grown aware of the need to unify the varieties of Romanian and create a standard Romanian lexis: this notion was first supported by the Transylvanians Gheorghe Şincai and Petru Maior, whose proposal was to unite Romanians around the issue of the choice of liturgical language, both Orthodox and Greek-Catholic (\"see Transylvanian School\"). Heliade, who first proposed a language regulator (an idea which was to be employed in creating the Romanian Academy), expanded on this legacy, while stressing that the dialect spoken in Muntenia, which had formed the basis of religious texts published by the 16th century printer Coresi, serve as the standard language.\n\nIn addition, he advocated aesthetical guidelines in respect to the standard shape of Romanian, stressing three basic principles in selecting words: \"proper wording\", which called for vernacular words of Latin origin to be prioritized; \"harmony\", which meant that words of Latin origin were to be used in their most popular form, even in cases where euphony had been altered by prolonged usage; and \"energy\", through which Heliade favored the primacy of the shortest and most expressive of synonyms used throughout Romanian-speaking areas. In parallel, Heliade frowned upon purist policies of removing widely used neologisms of foreign origin—arguing that these were \"a fatality\", he indicated that the gains of such a process would have been shadowed by the losses.\n\nThese early theories exercised a lasting influence, and, when the work of unifying Romanian was accomplished in the late 19th century, they were used as a source of inspiration: Romania's major poet of the period, Mihai Eminescu, himself celebrated for having created the modern literary language, gave praise to Heliade for \"writing just as [the language] is spoken\". This assessment was shared by Ovid Densusianu, who wrote: \"Thinking of how people wrote back then, in thick, drawly, sleepy phrases, Heliade thus shows himself superior to all his contemporaries, and ... we can consider him the first prose writer who brings in the note of modernity\".\n\nA second period in Heliade's linguistic researches, inaugurated when he adopted Étienne Condillac's theory that a language could be developed from conventions, eventually brought about the rejection of his own earlier views. By the early 1840s, he postulated that Romanian and Italian were not distinct languages, but rather dialects of Latin, which prompted him to declare the necessity of replacing Romanian words with \"superior\" Italian ones. One of his stanzas, using his version of the Romanian Latin alphabet, read:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em;font-style:italic\">\n\n</poem>\n\nApproximated into modern Romanian and English, this is:\nThe target of criticism and ridicule, these principles were dismissed by Eminescu as \"errors\" and \"a priori systems of orthography\". During their existence, they competed with both August Treboniu Laurian's adoption of strong Latin mannerisms and the inconsistent Francized system developed in Moldavia by Gheorghe Asachi, which, according to the 20th century literary critic Garabet Ibrăileanu, constituted \"the boyar language of his time\". Ibrăileanu also noted that Asachi had come to admire Heliade's attempts, and had praised them as an attempt to revive the language \"spoken by Trajan's men\"—in reference to Roman Dacia.\n\nWhile defending the role Moldavian politicians in the 1840s had in shaping modern Romanian culture, Ibrăileanu argued that practices such as those of Heliade and Laurian carried the risk of \"suppressing the Romanian language\", and credited Alecu Russo, more than his successors at \"Junimea\", with providing a passionate defense of spoken Romanian. He notably cited Russo's verdict: \"The modern political hatred aimed at [Russia] has thrown us into Italianism, into Frenchism, and into other -isms, that were not and are not Romanianism, but the political perils, in respect to the enslavement of the Romanian soul, have since passed; true Romanianism ought to hold its head up high\". The literary critic George Călinescu also connected Heliade's experimentation to his Russophobia, in turn reflecting his experiences as a revolutionary: \"Hating Slavism and the Russians, who had striven to underline [Slavic influences in Romanian], he said to himself that he was to serve his motherland by discarding all Slavic vestiges\". Călinescu notably attributed Heliade's inconsistency to his \"autodidacticism\", which, he contended, was responsible for \"[his] casual implication in all issues, the unexpected move from common sense ideas to the most insane theories\".\n\nOverall, Heliade's experiments had marginal appeal, and their critics (Eminescu included) contrasted them with Heliade's own tenets. Late in his life, Heliade seems to have acknowledged this, notably writing: \"This language, as it is written today by people who can speak Romanian, is my work\". One of the few authors to be influenced by the theory was the Symbolist poet Alexandru Macedonski, who, during his youth, wrote several pieces in Heliade's Italian-sounding Romanian. Despite Heliade's thesis being largely rejected, some of its practical effects on everyday language were very enduring, especially in cases where Italian words were borrowed as a means to illustrate nuances and concepts for which Romanian had no equivalent. These include \"afabil\" (\"affable\"), \"adorabil\" (\"adorable\"), (\"colossal\"), \"implacabil\" (\"implacable\"), \"inefabil\" (\"ineffable\"), \"inert\" (\"inert\"), \"mistic\" (\"mystical\"), \"pervers\" (\"perverse\" or \"pervert\"), \"suav\" (\"suave\"), and \"venerabil\" (\"venerable\").\n\nCelebrated as the founder of Wallachian Romanticism, Heliade was equally influenced by Classicism and the Age of Enlightenment. His work, written in a special cultural context (where Classiciasm and Romanticism coexisted), took the middle path between two opposing camps: the Romantics (Alecu Russo, Mihail Kogălniceanu and others) and the Classicists (Gheorghe Asachi, Grigore Alexandrescu, George Baronzi etc.). George Călinescu defined Heliade as \"a devourer of books\", noting that his favorites, who all played a part in shaping his style and were many times the subject of his translations, included: Alphonse de Lamartine, Dante Aligheri, Ludovico Ariosto, Torquato Tasso, Voltaire, Jean-François Marmontel, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and François-René de Chateaubriand.\n\nHis poetic style, influenced from early on by Lamartine, was infused with Classicism during his middle age, before he again adopted Romantic tenets. Initially making use of guidelines set by Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux in respect to poetry, he came to oppose them after reading Victor Hugo's Romantic preface to \"Cromwell\" (without ever discarding them altogether).\n\nLike the Classicists, Heliade favored a literature highlighting \"types\" of characters, as the union of universal traits and particular characteristics, but, like the Romantics, he encouraged writers to write from a subjective viewpoint, which he believed to be indicative of their mission as \"prophets, ... men who criticize, who point out their society's plagues and who look on to a happier future, waiting for a savior\". Through the latter ideal of moral regeneration, Heliade also complimented the Romantic stress on \"national specificity\", which he adopted in his later years. At the same time, he centered much of his own literary work on non-original material, either by compiling it from various translations or by translating from a single source—having his focus on creating the basis for further development by introducing samples of untapped literary genres and styles to Romanian literature.\n\nWhile several of Heliade's contributions to literature have been considered to be of low importance, many others, above all his Romantic poem \"Zburătorul\", are hailed as major accomplishments. \"Zburătorul\", borrowing from Romanian mythology its main character (the eponymous \"incubus\"-like being who visits nubile girls at night) also serves to depict the atmosphere of a Wallachian village from that period. According to George Călinescu, the poem's value partly relies on its depiction of lust through the girls' eyes: \"lacking the rages of Sappho and Phaedra. The puberty crisis is explained through mythology and cured through magic\".\n\nAn 1837 essay of his, centered on a debate regarding the translation of Homer's works into Romanian, featured a series of counsels to younger writers: \"This is not the time for criticism, children, it is the time for writing, so write as much and as good as you can, but without meanness; create, do not ruin; for the nation receives and blesses the maker and curses the destroyer. Write with a clear conscience\". Paraphrased as \"Write anything, boys, as long as you go on writing!\" (\"Scrieţi, băieţi, orice, numai scrieţi!\"), this quote became the topic of derision in later decades, and was hailed as an example of Heliade's failure to distinguish between quality and quantity. The latter verdict was considered unfair by the literary historian Şerban Cioculescu and others, who argued that Ion Heliade Rădulescu's main goal was to encourage the rapid development of local literature to a European level. Although he recognized, among other things, Heliade's merits of having removed pretentious boyar discourse from poetry and having favored regular rhyme, Paul Zarifopol accused him and Gheorghe Asachi of \"tastelessness\" and \"literary insecurity\". He elaborated: \"Rădulescu was arguably afflicted with this sin more than Asachi, given his unfortunate ambitions of fabricating a literary language\".\n\nHeliade's name is closely connected with the establishment of Romanian-language theater, mirroring the activities of Asachi in Moldavia. Ever since he partook in creating \"Soţietatea Filarmonică\" and the Bucharest Theater, to the moment of his death, he was involved in virtually all major developments in local dramatic and operatic art. In August 1834, he was one of the intellectuals who organized the first show hosted by \"Soţietatea Filarmonică\", which featured, alongside a cavatina from Vincenzo Bellini's \"Il pirata\", Heliade's translation of Voltaire's \"Mahomet\". In subsequent years, members of the association carried out the translation of French theater and other foreign pieces, while encouraging Romanian-language dramatists, an effort which was to become successful during and after the 1840s (when Constantin Aristia and Costache Caragiale entered their most creative periods). Heliade himself advocated didacticism in drama (defining it as \"the preservation of social health\"), and supported professionalism in acting.\n\nIon Heliade Rădulescu made extensive use of the Romantic nationalist focus on history, which he initially applied to his poetry. In this instance as well, the goal was to educate his public; he wrote: \"Nothing is worthy of derision as much as someone taking pride in his parents and ancestors and nothing more worthy of praise than when the ancestors' great deeds serve as a model and an impulse for competition among descendants\". The main historical figure in his poetry is the late 16th century Wallachian Prince Michael the Brave, the first one to rally Wallachia, Moldavia and Transylvania under a single rule: celebrated in Heliade's poem \"O noapte pe ruinele Târgoviştii\" (\"A Night on the Ruins of Târgovişte\"), he was to be the main character of a lengthy epic poem, \"Mihaiada\", of which only two sections, written in very different styles, were ever completed (in 1845 and 1859 respectively). Other historical poems also expanded on the ideal of a single Romanian state, while presenting the 1848 generation as a model for future Romanian politicians.\n\nThroughout the 1860s, one of Heliade's main interests was an investigation into the issues involving Romanian history during the origin of the Romanians and the early medieval history of the Danubian Principalities. At a time when, in Moldavia, the newly surfaced \"Chronicle of Huru\" traced a political lineage of the country to the Roman Empire through the means of a narrative which was later proven to be entirely fictional, Heliade made use of its theses to draw similar conclusions regarding Wallachia. His conservative views were thus expanded to the level of historiographic thesis: according to Heliade, boyars had been an egalitarian and permeable class, which, from as early as the times of Radu Negru, had adopted humane laws that announced and welcomed those of the French Revolution (he notably claimed that the county-based administration was a democratic one, and that it had been copied from the Israelite model as depicted in the Bible).\n\nThe ideal he expressed in a work of the period, \"Equilibru între antithesi\" (\"A Balance between Antitheses\") was moderate progressivism, with the preservation of social peace. In Tudor Vianu's view, partly based on earlier assessments by other critics, \"Equilibru\", with its stress on making political needs coincide with social ones through the means of counterweights, evidenced strong influences from Pierre-Joseph Proudhon's thought, as well as vaguer ones from that of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Nonetheless, his system parted with Hegelianism in that, instead of seeking a balance between the \"Geist\" and existence, it considered the three states of human progress (\"Thesis, antithesis, synthesis\") the reflection of a mystical number favored throughout history.\n\nIn parallel, Heliade worked on a vast synthesis of his own philosophy of history, based on his interpretation of Biblical theology. His 1858 work, \"Biblice\" (\"Biblical Writings\"), was supposed to form the first of four sections in a Christian history of the world. Referring to this project, Călinescu defined Heliade's ideas as \"interesting, no matter how naïve at times, in general Voltairian and Freemason [in shape]\". \"Biblicele\" partly evidenced Heliade's interests in the Talmud and \"Zohar\"-like gematria—with emphasis placed on the numbers 3, 7, and 10—, as well as ample references to the \"Sephirot\". One of his original thoughts on the matter was a reference to \"deltas\" (triangles) of deities—Elohim-Spirit-Matter and Spirit-Matter-the Universe. A portion of Heliade Rădulescu's poems also draw on religious themes and discourse. According to George Călinescu, the poet had attempted to create a parallel to both \"The Divine Comedy\" and the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, with a style influenced by Lamartine and Victor Hugo.\n\nHeliade was aware of the often negative response to his work: in a poem dedicated to the memory of Friedrich Schiller, he expanded on the contrast between creation and social setting (in reference to mankind, it stressed \"Te iartă să faci răul, iar binele nici mort\"—\"They forgive the evil committed against them, but never the good\"). A noted author of satire, he used it as a vehicle to criticize social customs of his day, as well as to publicize personal conflicts and resentments. As a maverick, he attacked political figures on both sides: conservatives who mimicked liberalism were the subject of his \"Areopagiul bestielor\" (\"The Areopagus of the Beasts\"), while many other of his post-1848 prose and poetry pieces mocked people on the left wing of liberalism, most notably C. A. Rosetti and his supporters. During and after his exile, his conflicts with Cezar Bolliac and Ion Ghica also made the latter two the target of irony, most likely based on Heliade's belief that they intended to downplay his contributions to the Wallachian Revolution of 1848.\n\nHis autobiographical pieces, marked by acid comments on Greek-language education, and, in this respect, similar to the writings of his friend Costache Negruzzi, also display a dose of self-irony. The enduring polemic with Grigore Alexandrescu, as well as his quarrel with Bolliac, formed the basis of his pamphlet \"Domnul Sarsailă autorul\" (\"Mr. Old Nick, the Author\"), an attack on what Heliade viewed as writers whose pretensions contrasted with their actual mediocrity. In other short prose works, Ion Heliade Rădulescu commented on the caricature-like nature of \"parvenu\" Bucharesters (the male prototype, \"Coconul Drăgan\", was \"an ennobled hoodlum\", while the female one, \"Coconiţa Drăgana\", always wished to be the first in line for the unction).\n\nIn various of his articles, he showed himself a critic of social trends. During the 1830s, he reacted against misogyny, arguing in favor of women's rights: \"Who has made man create himself unfair laws and customs, in order for him to cultivate his spirit and forsake [women] into ignorance...?\". In 1859, after the Jewish community in Galaţi fell victim to a pogrom, he spoke out against Antisemitic blood libel accusations: \"Jews do not eat children in England, nor do they in France, nor do they in Germany, nor do they do so wherever humans have become humans. Where else are they accused of such an inhumane deed? Wherever peoples are still Barbaric or semi-Barbaric\".\n\nA large portion of Heliade's satirical works rely on mockery of speech patterns and physical traits: notable portraits resulting from this style include mimicking the manner of Transylvanian educators (with their strict adherence to Latin etymologies), and his critique of the exophthalmos Rosetti (with eyes \"more bulged than those of a giant frog\"). Without sharing Heliade's views on literature, the younger Titu Maiorescu drew comparisons with his predecessor for launching into similar attacks, and usually in respect to the same rivals.\n\nA monument to Ion Heliade Rădulescu, sculpted by the Italian artist Ettore Ferrari, stands in front of the University building in central Bucharest. In addition to naming a lecture room after him, the Romanian Academy has instituted the \"Ion Heliade Rădulescu Award\"—in 1880, it was awarded to Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, for his \"Cuvinte den bătrâni\", and worth 5,000 gold lei. Ten years after, the prize was the center of a scandal, involving on one side the dramatist Ion Luca Caragiale and, on the other, the cultural establishment formed around members of the National Liberal Party, including Hasdeu and Dimitrie Sturdza. The latter disapproved of Caragiale's anti-Liberal stance and his association with \"Junimea\", as well as to his anti-nationalism, dislike of didacticism, and alleged cosmopolitanism. They thus refused to grant him the prize.\n\nA high school in his native Târgovişte bears the name \"Ion Heliade Rădulescu\", as does a village in the commune of Ziduri, Buzău County. The grave of Take Ionescu, an influential political figure and one-time Prime Minister of Romania who was Heliade's descendant, is situated in Sinaia Monastery, in the immediate vicinity of a fir tree planted by Heliade and his fellow 1848 revolutionaries.\n\nIn his 1870 poem \"Epigonii\" (\"The Epigones\"), Mihai Eminescu paid tribute to early Romanian-language writers and their contributions to literature. An entire stanza is dedicated to Heliade:\nDuring the early 1880s, Alexandru Macedonski and his \"Literatorul\" attempted to preserve Heliade's status and his theories when these were faced with criticism from \"Junimea\"; by 1885, this rivalry ended in defeat for Macedonski, and contributed to the disestablishment of \"Literatorul\".\n\nAlthough a \"Junimist\" for a large part of his life, Ion Luca Caragiale himself saw a precursor in Heliade, and even expressed some sympathy for his political ideals. During the 1890s, he republished a piece by Heliade in the Conservative Party's main journal, \"Epoca\". One of Caragiale's most significant characters, the Transylvanian schoolteacher Marius Chicoş Rostogan, shares many traits with his counterparts in Heliade's stories. Developing his own theory, he claimed that there was a clear difference between, on one hand, the generation of Heliade Rădulescu, Ion Câmpineanu, and Nicolae Bălcescu, and, on the other, the National Liberal establishment formed around Pantazi Ghica, Nicolae Misail and Mihail Pătârlăgeanu—he identified the latter grouping with hypocrisy, demagogy, and political corruption, while arguing that the former could have found itself best represented by the Conservatives.\n\nComments about Heliade and his Bucharest statue feature prominently in Macedonski's short story \"Nicu Dereanu\", whose main character, a daydreaming Bohemian, idolizes the Wallachian writer. \"Sburătorul\", a modernist literary magazine of the interwar period, edited by Eugen Lovinescu, owed its name to \"Zburătorul\", making use of an antiquated variant of the name (a form favored by Heliade). During the same years, Camil Petrescu made reference to Heliade in his novel \"Un om între oameni\", which depicts events from Nicolae Bălcescu's lifetime.\n\nIn his \"Autobiography\", the Romanian philosopher Mircea Eliade indicated that it was likely that his ancestors, whose original surname was \"Ieremia\", had adopted the new name as a tribute to Heliade Rădulescu, whom they probably admired.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2162933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2162933", "title": "Jack Webster (journalist)", "text": "Jack Webster (journalist)\n\nJohn Edgar \"Jack\" Webster, (April 15, 1918 – March 2, 1999) was a Scottish-born Canadian journalist, radio, and television personality, regarded as \"king of the Vancouver airwaves\" from the 1950s to his retirement, in 1988.\n\nWebster was born in Glasgow, the son of a Clydeside ironturner. He left school at age 14 to enter into newspaper businesses as a teenager. He worked in Glasgow and on Fleet Street. When World War II broke out, Webster joined the British Army and rose to the rank of major, with most of his six years' service spent in the Middle East.\n\nAfter the war, Webster emigrated to Canada. He covered the labour beat for the \"Vancouver Sun\" newspaper. In 1953, he began to work on commercial radio in the talk radio format, which had its origins in British Columbia before it spread to the United States. Webster made his mark broadcasting shorthand transcripts of testimony during a probe into corruption on Vancouver's police force. His City Mike show on CJOR achieved some fame covering the issue.\n\nHe left CJOR and moved his show to CKNW. In the 1960s, he had 186,000 daily listeners and a $100,000 salary. In 1963, prisoners at the BC Penitentiary were foiled in an escape attempt and took hostages. At the prisoners' request, Webster acted as a mediator between hostage-holding prisoners and the authorities and helped resolve the stand-off.\n\nIn 1972, Jim Pattison lured Webster back to CJOR. Then in 1979, at the age of 60, Webster moved his radio show to television, where his familiar expression '9 am prrre-cisely' became his trademark. His hour-long TV interview program \"Webster!\", which was seen weekdays at 9 am on BCTV and then-sister CHEK-TV and from 1986, at 5pm proceeding the nightly news hour on BCTV, frequently dealt with British Columbia politics. Shortly after the final BCTV show aired in April 1987, Webster and the TV station donated the videos for all nine years of his shows to the BC Archives.\n\nIn 1990, Webster joined the long-running CBC TV program Front Page Challenge as its permanent fourth panelist until the show's cancellation in 1995.\n\nIn 1987, he was inducted into the Canadian News Hall of Fame.\nIn 1988, he was made a Member of the Order of Canada.\nIn 2017, the 150th anniversary of Canada, Webster was profiled in Vancouver newspapers as one of the most notable 150 British Columbians.\n\nIn 1986, more than 1000 people attended a salute to Webster upon his retirement. This event resulted in the creation of the Jack Webster Foundation to promote and honour excellence in journalism in British Columbia. Each year, journalists judged to have outstanding work receive a Jack Webster Award (known as a \"Webster\"), a glass statue and a cash prize that has become the hallmark of journalistic excellence in British Columbia.\n\nThe awards have grown from a single \"Reporter of the Year\" in 1987 to thirteen awards today for best news, best feature and best community news reporting (print, radio, and TV awards in each of the three categories) as well as recognition for excellence in the categories of business reporting, science reporting, commentary, legal journalism, Chinese-language news, and the Bruce Hutchison Lifetime Achievement Award. The Foundation also awards fellowships and six annual student reporting awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "761125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761125", "title": "Kenny Logan", "text": "Kenny Logan\n\nKenneth McKerrow \"Kenny\" Logan (born 3 April 1972) is a retired Scottish rugby union player who played wing for Stirling County RFC and Glasgow District at amateur level; Glasgow Warriors, Wasps RFC and London Scottish at professional level; and Scotland at international level. He won three English Premierships with Wasps RFC; and one Scottish Premiership title with Stirling County RFC in 1995, just before the game turned professional.\n\nLogan was born on 3 April 1972 in Stirling, Scotland. As a schoolboy, Logan had football trials as a goalkeeper for Dundee United and Hearts. He left school at sixteen and began his rugby career with his hometown club Stirling County, making his senior debut at 17.\n\nLogan played for the amateur provincial side Glasgow District. In 1996 the professional era began and the side became Glasgow Rugby. He played for the newly professional team in the three matches of the 1996–97 Scottish Inter-District Championship as well as 2 matches in that season's European Challenge Cup, the European Conference.\n\nIn 1997, he joined Wasps for his first season in English rugby. Logan was with Wasps for seven seasons. In 2004, he re-signed for Glasgow before joining London Scottish after a season. He retired from playing in 2005.\n\nLogan played for Scotland A. Logan made his Scotland debut in 1992 against Australia at the age of 19. He was in and out of the side before cementing a position in the starting XV at the 1994 Five Nations Championship. He played in the 2003 World Cup. He won 70 caps over a 13-year period, scoring 20 tries in the process. He retired from international rugby union after the 2003 World Cup.\n\nLogan was diagnosed with dyslexia as a child and found solace in playing sports. He attended Wallace High School but left without sitting for his final exams.\n\nLogan dated newsreader Kirsty Young and moved to London, before the couple separated in 1999 after three years. In July 2001 he married television presenter Gabby Yorath. The couple live in Kew, south west London. After undergoing IVF treatment they had twins, who were born on 28 July 2005.\n\nLogan and his wife took part in the fifth series of the BBC celebrity dancing programme \"Strictly Come Dancing\". Kenny was partnered with Ola and Gabby was partnered with James Jordan. Logan ended in 5th place. Gabby finished in 12th place. \n\nKenny and his wife are past presidents of the children's charity Sparks. In 2009, Logan and Sparks joined forces to organise an annual mass-participation event entitled Logan's Challenge.\n\nIn August 2014, Logan was one of 200 public figures who were signatories to a letter to \"The Guardian\" expressing their hope that Scotland would vote to remain part of the United Kingdom in September's referendum on that issue.\n\nLogan supports Rangers F.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45613522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45613522", "title": "Lauritz Dippenaar", "text": "Lauritz Dippenaar\n\nLauritz Laurie Dippenaar is a South African self made millionaire businessman,investor & banker who is the Chairman of FirstRand financial Group. He is also well known for his philanthropic activities and runs a scholarship programme through his generous endowments.\n\nLauritz Dippenaar graduated from Pretoria University with a Master of Commerce, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, and spent three years with the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa. In 1977, Dippenaar founded FirstRand's predecessor, Rand Consolidated Investing along with Paul Harris and Gerrit Ferreira.He served as executive chairman of RMB from 1992 until the formation of FirstRand in 1998. He was appointed as the first chief executive of FirstRand and held this position until the end of 2005 when he was selected as a chairman for a non-executive role in 2008.\n\nHe sponsors the Laurie Dippenaar Postgraduate Scholarship for International Study. The scholarship is awarded annually and is available to a South African citizen, for study outside South Africa in any discipline at the internationally recognized University of their choice for a Postgraduate degree. It has a value R350 000 ($37,000) per annum for a maximum of two years.\n\nDippenaar is married with three children. His hobbies include watching rugby, Canoeing and cycling.\n\nA press release dated August 27, 2014 featured that US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued an order filing and settling charges against FirstRand Bank Ltd (under the chairmanship of Lauritz Laurie Dippenaar) and imposed a $150,000 civil monetary penalty for executing unlawful prearranged, non-competitive trades involving corn and soybean futures contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), a designated contract market of the CME Group.\n"}
{"id": "54340904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54340904", "title": "List of Big Brother 19 houseguests (U.S.)", "text": "List of Big Brother 19 houseguests (U.S.)\n\nCBS released the names of the sixteen new contestants on \"Big Brother 19\" on June 19, 2017. After the temptation twist was used, a former houseguest returned to the game. \nAlexandra Rose “Alex” Ow (born December 20, 1988), 28, is an eco-friendly marketing representative from Camarillo, California. Originally from Thousand Oaks, she enjoys knitting, crocheting, baking, going to the gym, going out with friends, hanging out with her family, watching Netflix, hiking, dating, and being lazy.\n\nOn Day 9, after Megan self-evicted, Cody named Alex as the replacement nominee for eviction. On Day 10, she won the first POV competition. On Day 17, Paul nominated her for eviction. On Day 23, Alex won her first HOH. On Day 24, she nominated Jessica and Dominique for eviction. On Day 51, Alex won her second HOH of the season. On Day 52, Alex nominated Jason and Elena. On Day 55, Alex replaced Jason with Cody after Matt used the POV on Jason. On Day 73, Alex was nominated alongside Jason for eviction. On Day 76, Alex was saved after Paul used the POV to take her off from the block. On Day 79, Alex won her third HOH of the season. She nominated Kevin and Raven for eviction. On Day 80, she was nominated alongside Kevin for eviction. On Day 84, she was evicted by a 2-1 vote and became the seventh member of the Jury. Alex voted for Josh to be the winner.\n\nCameron Heard (born August 27, 1992), 24, is a microbiologist from Woodridge, Illinois. Originally from North Aurora, he enjoys riding his bike, solving Rubik's Cubes, playing online chess, snowboarding, and scuba diving. \n\nOn Day 1, Cameron was evicted by an 8-3-2 vote after not being saved by Paul and then losing the safety competition. On Day 30, Cameron competed against Jillian, Cody, and Dominique in the Battle Back Showdown. He came in second during the first round and progressed to round two, where he lost in a head-to-head battle against Cody.\n\nChristmas Joye Abbott (born December 20, 1981), 35, is a fitness superstar from Raleigh, North Carolina. Originally from Lynchburg, Virginia, she enjoys working out, playing sports, cooking, and working. She is the first female NASCAR pit crew member.\n\nOn Day 1, Christmas was not picked by Paul for safety and subsequently lost the safety competition, resulting in her becoming one of three nominees for eviction. She received only 2 out of the 13 votes cast to evict and was saved. On Day 12, Christmas was named as a replacement nominee after Alex removed herself from the block. On Day 13, Christmas had to leave the Big Brother house temporarily after suffering a foot injury and returned later that day. On Day 17, Christmas was voted into the Den of Temptation and chose to accept the Ring of Replacement. She also got to choose Cody, Jessica, and Jason as the recipients of that week's curse. On Day 23, Christmas had to leave the house to get foot surgery done in a hospital. Because of this, on Day 24, she became the first houseguest in the history of \"Big Brother (U.S.)\" to cast an eviction vote via phone call from outside of the house. She was also absent for that week's HOH competition. On Day 46, Christmas used the Ring of Replacement to take Cody's place in the veto competition, though she ended up being unable to compete due to her injury. On Day 58, Christmas won the HOH competition. On Day 59, she nominated Jason and Matt for eviction. On Day 62, Christmas replaced Jason with Mark after Jason used the POV on himself. On Day 73, Christmas nominated Jason and Alex for eviction. On Day 76, Christmas nominated Kevin as a replacement nominee after Paul chose to use the POV to save Alex from the block. On Day 86, she cast her sole vote to evict Kevin. On Day 92, after Josh became the Final HOH, he chose to evict Christmas, and she became the 9th and final Jury member. Christmas voted for Paul to win.\n\nCody Lee Nickson (born April 13, 1985), 32, is a United States Marine Corps 0311 from Plano, Texas who did combat tours in both the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Originally from Lake Mills, Iowa, he joined the United States Air Force at the age of 17 where he would serve as a 2M0X2 and then a 1N0X1 before joining the Marines. He enjoys surfing and riding his motorcycle. He and his former girlfriend have a daughter named Paisley Nickson.\n\nOn Day 1, Cody won the safety competition after Paul did not choose him as one of the 8 houseguests to be awarded safety. Later that week, Cody won the first HOH competition and nominated Megan and Jillian for eviction. On Day 9, Cody picked Alex as a replacement nominee after Megan self-evicted. On Day 12, Cody tried to nominate Paul after Alex took herself off the block. However, Paul revealed his Pendant of Protection, so Cody chose to nominate Christmas instead. On Day 17, Christmas named Cody as a recipient of the Ve-toad curse after accepting a temptation. On Day 20, Paul saved Josh with the POV and named Cody as the replacement nominee. On Day 23, Cody was evicted from the house by a 7-3-0 vote, but on Day 30, he returned to the house after winning three rounds of the Battle Back Showdown. On Day 38, Paul nominated Cody for eviction alongside Jessica. On Day 44, Jessica used the Halting Hex during the live show, sparing both her and Cody from eviction. On Day 45, Cody won the second Temptation Competition and became safe for the week. On Day 55, Alex put him up as the replacement nominee after Matt won the POV and used it on Jason. On Day 58, Cody was evicted from the house by a 7-0-0 vote and became the first member of the Jury. Cody voted for Josh to win. Cody also won America's Favorite Houseguest and takes home $25,000. \n\nOn September 27, 2017, it was revealed by CBS that Cody, with Jessica, would be one of the teams racing on the 30th season of \"The Amazing Race\". The two became engaged on February 13, 2018.\n\nCody and Jessica went on to become the winners of Amazing Race 30 and took home the $1,000,000 prize along with the $5,000 prize they won earlier during the race\n\nOn September 5, 2018, Cody was nominated for 2018 People's Choice Awards for \"The Competition Contestant of 2018\".\n\nDominique Charde Cooper (born July 11, 1986), 30, is a government nuclear engineer from Woodbridge, Virginia. Originally from Tuskegee, Alabama, she enjoys eating and trying new restaurants, attending happy hours, running, creative writing, speaking, and reading books.\n\nOn Day 24, Alex nominated Dominique for eviction alongside Jessica. On Day 30, Dominique was unanimously evicted from the house by a 10-0 vote. She competed in the Battle Back Showdown against Cameron, Jillian, and Cody. She was eliminated in the first round.\n\nElena Ce'Anne Davies (born August 19, 1990), 26, is a radio personality from Dallas, Texas. She used to work on \"The Kidd Kraddick Morning Show\". Originally from Fort Worth, she enjoys Instagram, listening to live music, napping, tailgating, and shaking her booty.\n\nOn Day 45, Josh nominated Elena and Mark for eviction. On Day 52, Alex nominated Elena and Jason for eviction. On Day 53, Elena took first place in the veto competition but opted to take a $5,000 prize over the POV. On Day 58, during the double eviction, Jason became HOH and nominated Elena and Mark. Later that night, Elena was evicted from the house by a 6-1-0 vote and became the second member of the Jury. Elena voted for Josh to win.\n\nJason Lance Dent (born July 12, 1979), 37, is a rodeo clown from Humeston, Iowa. He enjoys rodeo. He performs under the name Whistle-Nut with his bull Ole. He is married to his wife Holly and they have a young son named Gatlin.\n\nOn Day 17, Christmas chose Jason as the recipient of the Ve-toad curse after accepting a temptation. On Day 25, Jason won the Power of Veto. On Day 37, Jason became a third nominee after losing the first Temptation Competition. On Day 41, Paul removed Jason from the block after winning the Power of Veto. On Day 52, Alex nominated Jason and Elena for eviction. On Day 55, Matt chose to remove Jason from the block with the POV. On Day 58, Jason won the HOH competition during the double eviction and nominated Mark and Elena. When Mark won the POV, Jason named Matt as the replacement nominee. On Day 59, Christmas nominated Jason and Matt for eviction. On Day 61, Jason won the Power of Veto. On Day 62, he removed himself from the block. On Day 65, Jason won his second HOH competition of the season. He later nominated Matt and Raven for eviction. On Day 66, Jason won the Power of Veto. On Day 73, Christmas nominated Jason and Alex for eviction. On Day 79, Jason was evicted by a 3-2 vote by Christmas breaking the tie-breaking vote and became the fifth member of jury. Jason voted for Josh to win.\n\nJason came under fire for a comment he made regarding Kevin's family. Speaking to Paul and Alex, Jason stated that he would engage in sexual intercourse with Kevin's wife after tying up his daughters to force them to watch. Jason would do this while laughing at his idea claiming he would say it to Kevin's face if Kevin nominated him. A lot of fans called for Jason to be expelled after this incident, though no comment has been made on the matter.\n\nJessica Furtado Graf (born December 11, 1990), 26, is a VIP concierge from Los Angeles, California. Originally from Cranston, Rhode Island, she enjoys going out to eat long meals with great people.\n\nOn Day 17, Christmas named Jessica as a recipient of the Ve-toad curse after accepting a temptation. On Day 24, Alex nominated Jessica for eviction alongside Dominique. On Day 29, Jessica was presented with the third and final temptation from America. She chose to accept the Halting Hex, which allows her to cancel any of the four subsequent evictions, resetting that week. On Day 30, Jessica won the HOH competition. She chose to nominate Josh and Ramses for eviction. On Day 31, Jessica won the veto competition. On Day 38, Paul nominated Jessica for eviction alongside Cody. On Day 44, she used the Halting Hex during the live show, sparing both her and Cody from eviction. On Day 45, Jessica finished the Temptation Competition in last place and became the third nominee. On Day 51, Jessica was evicted by a 7-1-0 vote. On September 27, 2017, it was revealed by CBS that Jessica, with Cody, would be one of the teams racing on the 30th season of \"The Amazing Race\". The two became engaged on February 13, 2018.\n\nJessica and Cody went on to win The Amazing Race 30 and the grand prize of $1,000,000 along with the $5,000 they won on a previous leg.\n\nJillian Nicole Parker (born May 12, 1993), 24, is a timeshare sales representative from Las Vegas, Nevada. Originally from Celebration, Florida, she enjoys rock climbing and ropes courses.\n\nOn Day 1, Jillian was not picked by Paul for safety and subsequently lost the safety competition, resulting in her becoming one of three nominees for eviction. She received only 3 out of 13 votes to evict and was saved. Later that week, Cody won the first HOH competition and nominated her for eviction. On Day 16, Jillian was evicted from the house 8-4, after Cody faced immense trouble securing a target for eviction; Jillian initially agreed to be a pawn up against Megan, but due to Megan suddenly quitting the game and circumstances beyond his control (Alex being vetoed off the block and Paul revealing his Pendant of Protection), Cody cycled through four different nominees next to Jillian and was eventually forced to put up Christmas as the last of these, and the majority of the house wanted to keep her, resulting in Jillian's role as a pawn backfiring when she became the dispensable player. On Day 30, Jillian competed against Cameron, Cody, and Dominique in the Battle Back Showdown, where she was eliminated in the first round.\n\nJoshua “Josh” Martinez, (born January 4, 1994), 23, is a haircare salesman from Homestead, Florida. Originally from Miami, he enjoys playing sports, going to the gym, reading, hiking, traveling, meeting new people, being an adrenaline junkie, and having new experiences.\n\nDuring the first HOH competition, Josh won safety for the week after retrieving a golden apple, at the expense of his teammates' chances at winning HOH. On Day 17, Paul nominated him for eviction. On Day 20, Paul chose to save Josh with the POV and replaced him with Cody. On Day 31, Jessica nominated Josh for eviction and kept the nominees the same. On Day 44, Josh won HOH. On Day 45, he nominated Elena and Mark for eviction. On Day 79, Josh won the POV during the second Double Eviction and decided to not use it. On Day 79, Josh won his second HOH. On Day 80, he nominated Alex and Kevin. On Day 84, Josh cast the tie-breaker vote to evict Alex. On day 86, Martinez won the final HOH of the season and decided to evict Christmas. Moments later, Josh was crowned the winner of Big Brother 19, and the sole winner of the $500,000 prize, by a vote of 5-4, receiving the votes of jury members Alex Ow, Jason Dent, Mark Jansen, Elena Davies and Cody Nickson. Martinez is the first Hispanic-American winner in the show's history. Josh is the third Hispanic person to make finals after Ivette Corredero and Natalie Martinez.\n\nKevin Francis Schlehuber (born August 7, 1961), 55, is a stay-at-home dad from Boston, Massachusetts. He has 7 children, (6 girls, 1 boy) one of whom is part of a YouTube channel that Kevin has appeared in videos for. He enjoys hanging out with his family, watching movies, going to the beach, exercising, and playing pool or darts with the kids.\n\nOn Day 1, Kevin was the first houseguest to buzz in to give into the first temptation and thus won $25,000 in exchange for the BB Swap twist and his own ineligibility to win the first HOH competition. On Day 25, Kevin chose to go for the mystery cash prize during the veto competition and won $27. On Day 76, Christmas named Kevin as the replacement nominee after Paul used the POV to save Alex from the block. On Day 79, he was nominated alongside Raven for eviction. On Day 80, he was nominated alongside Alex for eviction. On Day 85, he was nominated alongside Josh for eviction. On Day 86, Kevin was evicted, the sole vote being cast by Christmas, and became the 8th member of the jury. Kevin voted for Paul to win. He is also the oldest person of the season.\n\nMark Gordon Jansen (born June 13, 1991), 26, is a personal trainer from Grand Island, New York. He enjoys lifting weights, hiking, watching movies, and relaxing on a beach.\n\nOn Day 37, Mark won the first Temptation Competition and became safe for the week. On Day 45, Josh nominated Mark and Elena for eviction. On Day 46, Mark won the Power of Veto. On Day 52, Mark won the third and final Temptation Competition. On Day 58, Jason nominated Mark and Elena for eviction during the double eviction. Later that night, Mark won the Power of Veto and chose to save himself. On Day 62, Mark was named as Christmas replacement nominee after Jason uses the POV on himself. On Day 65, Mark was evicted from the house by a 4-2 vote and became the third member of the Jury. Mark voted for Josh to win.\n\nMatthew John “Matt” Clines, (born March 31, 1984), 33, is a renovation consultant from Arlington, Virginia. He enjoys watching funny animal videos, eating, sleeping, and lifting weights. \n\nOn Day 52, Matt lost the third Temptation Competition and became the third nominee for eviction. On Day 53, Matt won the POV. He chose to use the veto on Jason. On Day 58, Jason named Matt as the replacement nominee after Mark saved himself with the POV. On Day 59, Christmas nominated Matt and Jason for eviction. On Day 66, Jason nominated Matt and Raven for eviction. When Jason won the \"Hide and Go Veto\" POV on Day 68, he did not use it to save either of them, resulting in a heated argument where Matt blasted Jason's decision and for going back on his word and forgetting a promise to take Raven off the block. In an effort to keep his showmance partner Raven from being evicted, Matt attempted to martyr his own game by inciting as many penalty votes as possible (an act that would prove unnecessary when he was unanimously voted out of the house). On Day 69, Matt decided to break the Have-Not rules and eat food other than slop, resulting in him receiving an automatic penalty vote against him at the upcoming eviction. He later proceeded to take hot showers and slept outside of the Have-Not room. On Day 72, Matt was evicted by a 6-0 vote with the one penalty vote and became the fourth jury member. Matt voted for Paul to win.\n\nMatt's time in the house was criticized due to his lack of involvement in the game as a major competitor on his own, almost entirely spent entering into a relationship with Raven and serving as Paul's ally, with Josh later remarking in the \"Everybody's a Wiener\" HOH Competition that his civil dispute with Alex and Jason for needlessly dragging out the competition (over sixty days into the game) was the first time he had a voice in the game. In general, he was known for eating an excessive amount a cereal, his tendency to shower longer than he needed to, and an uproarious laugh that became the subject of ridicule. His showmance with Raven was referred to as \"Maven\", and the rest of the Jury would later balk at the clueless nature of the duo when they claimed they were in control of the season after doing virtually nothing and even ending up evicted without realizing how it meant they had been defeated and felt comfortable with throwing their games to Paul and losing in that respect.\n\nMegan Ann Lowder (born March 7, 1989), 28, is a dog walker from Phoenix, Arizona. Originally from Cathedral City, California, she enjoys playing video games, Harry Potter, and watching South Park.\n\nIn week 1, Cody nominated Megan alongside Jillian for eviction, due to their alliance. On Day 9, upon the start of the live feeds, it was revealed by fellow houseguests that Megan had quit the game the day before. The next day, she released a statement citing PTSD from a sexual assault during her time in the Navy as the reason for her self-eviction and inability to cope with multiple confrontations inside the house. Following this, Megan's presence in the season was almost completely purged from the show out of respect for her need to disconnect and distance herself from the atmosphere that reawakened her past trauma; none of the subsequent competitions paid mention to her (such as not having an illustrated cover for BB Comics Week), nor did Megan return as a guest for the finale.\n\nPaul Raffi Abrahamian (born June 13, 1993), 24, is a fashion designer from Tarzana, California. His hobbies are playing music, going to shows and concerts for the crowd surfing, mosh pits, stage diving, traveling and hiking. He is a graduate of Pepperdine University. He was the runner-up on \"Big Brother 18\" in 2016.\n\nOn Day 1, Paul entered the house as a consequence for someone buzzing in to accept a $25,000 temptation. He was also granted safety from the first eviction and got to save 8 additional houseguests from having to compete for their safety that night. In week 1, Paul was the first houseguest to be voted into the Den of Temptation by America. He accepted the Pendant of Protection, which grants him immunity for the next three evictions. On Day 12, this power was revealed to his fellow houseguests when Cody tried to name him as the replacement nominee. On Day 16, Paul won the second HOH competition. On Day 17, Paul nominated Alex and Josh for eviction. On Day 18, Paul won the POV competition. On Day 20, he chose to take Josh off the block and replaced him with Cody. On Day 30, the house voted for Paul to face off against Cody in the final round of the Battle Back Showdown. Paul lost, which meant that Cody would re-enter the house. On Day 37, Paul won the HOH competition. He decided to nominate Cody and Jessica for eviction. On Day 40, Paul won the POV. On Day 74, Paul won his third POV of the season. On Day 81, Paul won his fourth POV of the season. On Day 84, he won his third HOH of the season. On Day 85, he won his fifth consecutive POV of the season. On day 86, Paul won part 1 of the Final HoH. On Day 92, Paul lost by a 5-4 jury vote to Josh Martinez, receiving the jury votes of Christmas Abbott, Kevin Schlehuber, Raven Walton and Matt Clines.\n\nPaul is the fifth houseguest after Big Brother 3 contestants Danielle Reyes and Jason Guy, Big Brother 16 winner Derrick Levasseur, and Big Brother Canada 1 winner Jillian MacLaughlin to make it to the final 3 without touching the block. However, unlike the others, Paul was actually nominated but did not go on the block because the pendant of protection protected him, and accomplished this feat on his second attempt. Counting only HoH's and PoV's, Paul has won the most competitions in Big Brother history with 15 wins over his two seasons, more competitions than any male in a single season with 9 competitions wins in Big Brother 19, and the most competition wins in a single season, tied with Janelle Pierzina who won 9 competitions in Big Brother All-Stars. He is the second houseguest in Big Brother History after Dan Gheesling to make it to the final 2 twice, and the first person to make it to the final two twice without winning. With this season, Paul has played the most days of any houseguest with 191 days.\n\nRamses Soto (born December 18, 1995), 21, is a cosplay artist from Grand Rapids, Michigan. He enjoys cosplaying and creating art.\n\nIn week 1, after Paul accepted a temptation, Ramses received the consequence and must put himself up as a third nominee for eviction sometime within the first 3 weeks. On Day 17, Ramses decided to follow through with his curse and put himself up for eviction alongside Paul's week 2 nominees. He was getting targeted by fellow housemates (houseguests) Kevin and Christmas in week 2. On Day 31, Jessica nominated Ramses for eviction. As Jessica wins the Power of Veto, she decides to keep the nominations, meaning either him or Josh will be voted to be evicted. On Day 37, Ramses went home in a 7-3 vote against Josh.\n\nRaven Leigh-Anna Walton (born June 10, 1994), 23, is a dance teacher from DeValls Bluff, Arkansas. She enjoys road tripping with her friends, reading books, and fashion. She suffers from a disease called gastroparesis, which is a chronic condition of stomach paralysis that forces her to use a gastric pacemaker in order for food to properly move through her digestive tract.\n\nOn Day 10, Raven retrieved a golden starfish during the Power of Veto competition and became immune from becoming a have-not for the rest of the summer. On Day 66, Jason nominated Raven and Matt for eviction. The nominations were kept the same post-veto, but Raven was spared from eviction as the expense of her showmance with Matt. On Day 79, Alex nominated Raven and Kevin for eviction and was evicted by a 2-1 vote and became the sixth member of the jury. Raven voted for Paul to win.\n\nRaven became a subject of heavy contention from the show's fans after she repeatedly misrepresented her gastroparesis (or GP) as a terminal condition, along with a multitude of accompanying ailments that were caused by the illness. Most of her statements regarding her health were deemed inconsistent and/or implausible, and ultimately caused many to condemn her behavior as malingering. She also claimed to have an abundance of other bizarre medical issues, such as an inverted spine, two beating hearts, and \"rough kneecap syndrome.\" Fans heavily speculated the true extent of Raven's illness throughout the entire season, with many divided on whether she was just a misinformed hypochondriac and/or someone suffering from Munchausen's syndrome. Some fans accused Raven of being a scam artist after it was discovered that her family had set up a GoFundMe page to support Raven's disease that had acquired $200,000 in donations prior to going on \"Big Brother\"'. She also regularly stated that she would need to have expensive surgeries done afterwards in order to be healthy and have children.\n"}
{"id": "25068706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25068706", "title": "List of people who have lit the Olympic cauldron", "text": "List of people who have lit the Olympic cauldron\n\nThe tradition of carrying the Olympic flame from Olympia, Greece, the birthplace of the Ancient Olympic Games, to the host city of the modern Olympic Games via a torch relay was first introduced in 1936, ahead of the Berlin Games. Since then, famous athletes (active or retired) with significant sporting achievements while representing the host country, promising young athletes, or other individuals with symbolic significance, have been selected as the last runners in the Olympic torch relay and consequently have the honor of lighting the Olympic cauldron at the opening ceremony.\n\nThe first well-known athlete to light the cauldron was nine-time Olympic champion Paavo Nurmi at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki. Other famous final torch bearers include French football star Michel Platini (1992), heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali (1996), Australian sprinter Cathy Freeman (2000), the Canadian ice hockey player Wayne Gretzky (2010), the marathon runner Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima (2016) and the South Korean figure skating champion Yuna Kim (2018).\n\nOn other occasions, the people who lit the cauldron were not famous but nevertheless symbolized the Olympic ideals. Japanese runner Yoshinori Sakai was born in Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, the day the city was destroyed by an atomic bomb. He symbolized the rebirth of Japan after the Second World War when he lit the Olympic cauldron of the 1964 Summer Olympics. At the 1976 Games in Montreal, two teenagers—representing the French- and the English-speaking parts of the country—symbolized the unity of Canada. Norway's Crown Prince Haakon lit the cauldron of the 1994 Winter Olympics, in honor of his father and grandfather, both Olympians. For the 2012 Games in London, seven aspiring young athletes—each nominated by a former British Olympic champion—had the honor of lighting the cauldron.\n\n"}
{"id": "10075806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10075806", "title": "Léon Dens", "text": "Léon Dens\n\nLéon Pierre Alphonse Dens (17 October 1869 – 16 November 1940) was a Belgian politician and shipowner. A member of the Liberal Party, he was killed during the Blitz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43965091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43965091", "title": "Léon Pourtau", "text": "Léon Pourtau\n\nLéon Pourtau (1872 – 4 July 1898) was a French painter and musician.\n\nAt the age of 15, an apprentice typesetter, Pourtau left Bordeaux for Paris. He worked in a small restaurant on the Rue Lafayette, where musicians gathered Orchestre Lamoureux. Thanks to them gets a job as a concert clarinetist in a Café-chantant. He toured with a circus band where he would help set up the tent and bathe the elephants. Back in Paris he entered the Conservatoire de Paris. During this period he married, had two children, and become a professor at the Conservatoire de Lyon at the age of 22 – the youngest ever.\n\nHe met George Seurat, himself also a musician, who taught him the impressionist technique. He took the opportunity of a concert tour in the US, which, after two years, earned him 20,000 Francs. At the annual exhibition of fine art held in Philadelphia over the winter of 1896–1897, he exhibited a painting, \"Quatre heures de l'après-midi\" (\"Four o'clock in the afternoon\"). This would be his only showing. Returning to Le Havre, Pourtau boarded the SS \"La Bourgogne\". On 4 July 1898 she was sunk in collision in dense fog with the British sailing ship \"Cromartyshire\" off Sable Island (now belonging to Canada). The painter died in the accident.\n\nHis works are now in the collections of several art museums including the Museo Soumaya, Mexico City and the Phoenix Art Museum, Phoenix, Arizona. \n"}
{"id": "9388721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9388721", "title": "Manuel Aznar Acedo", "text": "Manuel Aznar Acedo\n\nManuel Aznar y Acedo (Bilbao, 1916 – 12 January 2001) was a Spanish journalist and radio broadcaster.\n\nHe was the son of diplomatia and jornalist Manuel Aznar Zubigaray and father of politician José María Aznar López. His maternal uncle was footballer Domingo Acedo. He was married to Elvira López y Valdivieso and had four children, including José María Alfredo Aznar y López.\n\nHe was a member of the falangist movement and served during the Spanish Civil War as an officer in charge of propaganda for the Spanish Nationalist army. After the war, he worked for Cadena SER (1942-1962) and Radio Nacional de España (1962-1965) and was appointed co-director of the department of radio broadcasting for the ministry of information and tourism (1964-1967). He also founded the newspapers \"Hoja Oficial de Alicante\", \"Avance\" and \"Levante\". In 1967, he became the first director of the \"Escuela Oficial de Radiodifusión y Televisión\", the official school of radio and television broadcasting.\n"}
{"id": "2585019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2585019", "title": "Mayuri Kurotsuchi", "text": "Mayuri Kurotsuchi\n\n110 years prior to the series, Mayuri Kurotsuchi was an inmate in the Maggots Nest, the only one dangerous enough to be chained behind bars for his utter lack of regard for the life when it comes to experimentation. But that changed when Mayuri is visited by Kisuke Urahara and his lieutenant Hiyori Sarugaki, the former offering Mayuri a position in the SRDI. After initially refusing being Urahara's assistant, Mayuri accepts when Urahara points out that he be his successor should anything happen to him. Nine years after his release, Kisuke and Hiyori forced to leave the Soul Society, Mayuri becomes the new captain of Squad 12 as the result of the fifth experiment in his life-creating Nemuri Project while later taking the seventh surviving experiment, Nemu Kurotsuchi, to be his lieutenant and lab assistant while pretending to be uncaring towards her to hide his joy of creating a fully stable artificial life form. During this time, Mayuri experimented on Quincies, including Soken Ishida, the grandfather and trainer of Uryū Ishida.\n\nWhen Ichigo and his allies entered the Soul Society, Mayuri aided in the search for the Ryoka and found Orihime Inoue and Uryū. Orihime escaped and Mayuri reluctantly fights Uryū, seeing no need to study Quincies any further. Uryu is initially too weak to fight Mayuri until the Soul Reaper revealed that he experimented on Soken Ishida which his opponent unlocking his full Quincy powers prior to escaping. Mayuri remained on the sidelines for the duration of the search out of disinterest, even after he learns of Sosuke Aizen's betrayal.\n\nLater, Mayuri joins Byakuya Kuchiki, Kenpachi Zaraki, Retsu Unohana, and their subordinates in Hueco Mundo. He saves Uryū and Renji Abarai from Szayelaporro Granz, having an advantage against the Espada due to a bacterium he implanted in Uryū during their last fight that analyzed Szayelaporro's abilities. After defeating his controlled Zanpakuto while his opponent uses Nemu's body to reconstitute himself, Mayuri felt disappointed by the Arrancar's claims to have become a perfect being. As Szayelaporro's new body is paralyzed from exposure to the serums in Nemu's body, Mayuri kills him while giving him a lecture on why scientists shouldn't claim or even want perfection. Soon after, Mayuri investigates Szayelaporro's laboratory to take what he can for his research before healing Uryū and Renji, followed by sending Ichigo Kurosaki and Unohana through the Garganta to the Fake Karakura Town. While explaining to Byakuya that he is more interested in seeing what specimens Hueco Mundo offers to him, Mayuri notes that he does faith in Ichigo's ability to end the war. Once the fight against Aizen is settled, Mayuri attempts to seal off the Fake Karakura Town with their allies still inside but is stopped by his subordinates.\n\nAlmost a year later, Mayuri appears at a captain's meeting where he and Akon explain what they know about the Quincy group known as the Wandereich. Furthermore, Mayuri confirms that he ordered his squad to slaughter the 28,000 people in the Rukon to stabilize the Wandereich slaughtering Hollows while getting into a debate with Head Captain Yamamoto Genryusai over whose fault that such a deed needed to be carried out. Mayuri is further livid during the Wandereich's attack on the Soul Society when his fellow captains' lost their Bankai as a result of deciding to act on their own before he could completed his analysis on the enemy. Following the first invasion, meeting with Ichigo to discuss his broken Zangetsu, Mayuri locked himself away to continue his research on the Wandereich's Bankai stealing abilities with Urahara offering his assistance on the matter to develop a countermeasure to give the Soul Reaper captains who lost their Bankai an advantage. During the second Wandenreich invasion, Mayuri personally gets involved once interested in the abilities of Giselle Gewelle to turn living Soul Reapers into her zombie slaves while unveiling his own personal fighting team in the revived Arrancars Dordoni Alessandro Del Socaccio, Cirucci Sanderwicci, Luppi Antenor, and Charlotte Chuhlhourne. When Toshiro Hitsugaya appears as Giselle's zombie slave, Mayuri takes on the fellow Soul Reaper captain with the intent to test some of his serums on the youth. But by the time the zombified Rose, Kensei, and Rangiku arrive after Hitsugaya's defeat, Mayuri revealed that he devised a serum to alter the blood of the zombified Soul Reapers so they can only obey him. After having Giselle killed, while restoring Hitsugaya and Rangiku to normal, Mayuri takes Rose and Kensei to aid Byakuya in his fight against PePe Waccabrada.\n\nWhen Yhwach absorbed the Soul King's power, Mayuri and Kenpachi come across Pernida Parnkgjas in the transformed Royal Realm. After Pernida defeats Kenpachi, deeming the mysterious Wandenreich to be creepy for even him, Mayuri finds himself in a battle for his life after Perinda reveals himself to be the left arm of the Soul King. After his attempt to defeat Perinda with a variation of his Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō failed, realizing the arm is constantly evolving, Mayuri finds himself being protected by Nemu before she throws him over to a nearby building to watch her fight with the arm unfold. Though Nemu dies while having visions of being taunted by Szayelaporro, Mayuri saves his creation's brain from being eaten by Perinda so the Quincy would die an antagonizing death from her cellular makeup. In the series epilogue, Mayuri created a new Nemu.\n\nMayuri's greatest ability is his scientific intellect. He's able to think many steps ahead of his opponents and has created numerous inventions to aid him in battle. He is also a master of Kido and has a very high level of Reiatsu.\n\nMayuri Kurotsuchi's \"Zanpakutō\" is . When released with the command , Ashisogi Jizō's blade transforms into a deformed trident head. When it stabs an opponent, it emits a poison that severs the nerve signals that control limb movement, paralyzing that limb regardless of where it was struck. However, unlike normal paralysis, the affected area is still able to feel pain, something which is rather fitting for Mayuri's demented tendencies. Ashisogi Jizō's \"bankai\", named , takes the form of a giant caterpillar with a baby's head and a silver halo. The creature breathes a poisonous derivative of Mayuri's blood which is lethal to anyone who breathes it, aside from himself and Nemu. It can also run through and skewer opponents with the multiple blades that erupt from its chest. Mayuri has physically modified his \"bankai\" so that it will self-destruct and return to its sealed state if it attacks him. It is also shown that Mayuri changes the poison he uses every time he shows his bankai. During his fight against Pernida, Mayuri reveals an alternate \"bankai\" called Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō: Makai Fukuin Shōtai, which is an enormous overweight infant-like creature that gives birth to a Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō specially designed to Mayuri's specifications against a certain opponent.\n\n\"Ashisogi Jizo\" appears as a free \"Zanpakutō\" spirit in the \"Zanpakutō Unknown Tales\" anime arc as a small, baby-like creature with butterfly wings. As a final defensive measure, Mayuri can reduce himself to liquid form for three days by stabbing himself with his \"Zanpakutō\". This leaves him unable to attack or be attacked, making it a very effective escape tool.\n\nHe appears in almost every Bleach Video Game as a playable character and was in the first three Bleach movies. In Byakuya Kuchiki, Jushiro Ukitake, and Shunsui Kyoraku go to his lab to ask him if it's possible for people to have the same Zanpakuto. In his lab is attacked and he is driven to insane with Nemu, the rest of Squad 12 and Kenpachi trying to get him under control before they're engulfed by a white liquid from one of the machines in his laboratory.\n\nMayuri Kurotsuchi ranked 28th place in the 3rd Popularity poll. His fight with Uryu was ranked 8th place in the Bleach Best Bout. His sword, Ashi Sogi Jizo was the 26th ranked zanpakuto in the 5th poll. \nMayuri has appeared in much merchandise including key chains, arm bands, and action figures.\n\nCarlo Santos of Anime News Network said that there was \"a certain amount of ridiculousness\" in watching Szayelapporo Granz and Mayuri try to get the upper hand on each other during their fight. However, he went on to say that Mayuri finishing the battle was a \"wonderfully jaw-dropping conclusion\" to Volume 34. D.F. Smith of IGN.com praised Terrence Stone's voice acting and noted that it's \"more than weird enough to match the character.\" Bryce Coulter characterized Mayuri as sinister, twisted and pragmatic. He also said that he was a creepy old man and an absolute freak, but an empirical scientist at heart.\n"}
{"id": "49597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49597", "title": "Nathan Bedford Forrest", "text": "Nathan Bedford Forrest\n\nNathan Bedford Forrest (July 13, 1821 – October 29, 1877), called Bedford Forrest in his lifetime, was a cotton farmer, slave owner, slave trader, Confederate Army general during the American Civil War, first leader of the Ku Klux Klan and president of the Selma, Marion, & Memphis Railroad.\n\nPrior to the outbreak of the war, Forrest amassed substantial wealth as a cotton planter, horse and cattle trader, real estate broker and slave trader. In June 1861, Forrest enlisted in the Confederate Army. He was one of the few officers on either side during the war to enlist as a private and be promoted to general officer and corps commander without any military education or training. An expert cavalry leader, Forrest eventually was given command of a corps and established new doctrines for mobile forces, earning the nickname \"The Wizard of the Saddle\". His methods subsequently influenced many future generations of military strategists, although the Confederate high command may have failed to fully utilize his talents.\n\nForrest's cavalry captured more Union guns, horses and supplies than any other single Confederate unit. Forrest proved to be a belligerent nemesis for both Union Generals Ulysses S. Grant and William T. Sherman. He played pivotal roles at Fort Donelson, Shiloh, the capture of Murfreesboro, the pursuit and capture of Colonel Abel Streight's Raiders, Brice's Crossroads and the Nashville Campaign.\n\nIn April 1864, in what has been called \"one of the bleakest, saddest events of American military history,\" troops under Forrest's command massacred Union troops who had surrendered, most of them black soldiers, along with some white Southern Tennesseans fighting for the Union, at the Battle of Fort Pillow. Forrest was blamed for the massacre in the Union press, and that news may have strengthened the North's resolve. In June, Forrest achieved a notable victory at Brice's Crossroads, but was followed by a Confederate defeat at Tupelo, in July, where he was wounded in battle. Forrest was in chief command of the cavalry during the Nashville Campaign. In February 1865, Forrest was promoted to Lieutenant General. After Robert E. Lee was defeated and surrendered to Grant at Appomattox, the war came to a conclusion. In May 1865, Forrest surrendered at Selma, was paroled, and he returned to his cotton plantations. During Reconstruction, Forrest's citizenship rights were restored with the pardon he received from President Andrew Johnson on July 17, 1868, but he never could escape the label of \"Butcher of Fort Pillow\".\n\nForrest joined the Ku Klux Klan, apparently in 1867, two years after its founding and was elected its first Grand Wizard. At the time the group was a loose collection of local groups that used violence and the threat of violence to maintain white control over the newly liberated and enfranchised slaves. While Forrest was a leader, the Klan, during the Election of 1868, suppressed voting rights of blacks and Republicans in the South through violence and intimidation. In 1869, Forrest expressed disillusionment with the lack of discipline among the various white supremacist groups across the South, and issued a letter ordering the dissolution of the Ku Klux Klan and its costumes to be destroyed and withdrew from the organization. Lacking coordinated leadership and facing strong prosecution by President Grant and the newly established Department of Justice, the members of this first incarnation of the Klan absconded and it gradually disappeared.\n\nFor a time after the war, Forrest operated a prison labor camp where prisoners, primarily black men arrested for \"vagrancy\" or other similar charges, had their involuntary labor auctioned to private bidders, to the benefit of the buyers and the prison officials. However, in the last years of his life, Forrest publicly denounced the violence and racism practiced by the Klan, insisted he had never been a member and made at least one public speech (to a black audience) in favor of racial harmony. Although scholars admire Forrest as a military strategist, he has remained a highly controversial figure in Southern history, especially for his role in the attack on Fort Pillow, his 1867–1869 leadership of the Ku Klux Klan and his political influence as a Tennessee delegate at the 1868 Democratic National Convention.\n\nNathan Bedford Forrest was born on July 13, 1821 to a poor settler family in a secluded frontier cabin near Chapel Hill hamlet, then part of Bedford County, Tennessee, but now encompassed in Marshall County. Forrest was the first son of William and Mariam (Beck) Forrest. His father William was of English descent and most of his biographers state that his mother Mariam was of Scotch-Irish descent, but the Memphis Genealogical Society says that she was of English descent as well. He and his twin sister, Fanny, were the two eldest of blacksmith William Forrest's 12 children with wife Miriam Beck. Forrest's great-grandfather, Shadrach Forrest, possibly of English birth, moved from Virginia to North Carolina, between 1730-1740, and there his son and grandson were born; they moved to Tennessee in 1806. Forrest's family lived in a log house (now preserved as the Nathan Bedford Forrest Boyhood Home) from 1830 to 1833. John Allan Wyeth, who served in an Alabama regiment under Forrest, described it as a one-room building with a loft and no windows. William Forrest worked as a blacksmith in Tennessee until 1834, when he moved to Mississippi. William died in 1837 and Forrest became the primary caretaker of the family at the age of sixteen.\n\nIn 1841 Forrest went into business with his uncle Jonathan Forrest in Hernando, Mississippi. His uncle was killed there in 1845 during an argument with the Matlock brothers. In retaliation, Forrest shot and killed two of them with his two-shot pistol and wounded two others with a knife which had been thrown to him. One of the wounded Matlock men survived and served under Forrest during the Civil War.\n\nForrest became a successful businessman, planter, slaveholder and acquired several cotton plantations in the Delta region of West Tennessee. He was also a slave trader, at a time when demand was booming in the Deep South; his trading business was based on Adams Street in Memphis, In 1858, Forrest was elected a Memphis city alderman as a and served two consecutive terms. By the time the American Civil War started in 1861, he had become one of the richest men in the South, having amassed a \"personal fortune that he claimed was worth $1.5 million\".\n\nForrest was well known as a Memphis speculator and Mississippi gambler. In 1859, he bought two large cotton plantations in Coahoma County, Mississippi and a half-interest in another plantation in Arkansas; by October 1860 he owned at least 3,345 acres in Mississippi.\n\nForrest had 12 brothers and sisters; two of his eight brothers and his three sisters died of typhoid fever at an early age, all at about the same time. He also contracted the disease, but survived; his father recovered but died from residual effects of the disease five years later, when Bedford was 16. His mother Miriam then married James Horatio Luxton, of Marshall, Texas, in 1843 and gave birth to four more children.\n\nIn 1845, Forrest married Mary Ann Montgomery (1826–1893), the niece of a Presbyterian minister who was her legal guardian. They had two children, William Montgomery Bedford Forrest (1846–1908), who enlisted at the age of 15 and served alongside his father in the war, and a daughter, Fanny (1849–1854), who died in childhood. His descendants continued the military tradition. A grandson, Nathan Bedford Forrest II (1872–1931), became commander-in-chief of the Sons of Confederate Veterans and a Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan in Georgia and secretary of the national organization. A great-grandson, Nathan Bedford Forrest III (1905–1943), graduated from West Point and rose to the rank of brigadier general in the U.S. Army Air Corps; he was killed during a bombing raid over Nazi Germany in 1943, becoming the first American general to die in European combat in World War II.\n\nNathan Bedford Forrest was a tall man and had a commanding presence. Out of habit, he was mild mannered, quiet in speech, exemplary in language, considerate, and generally kindhearted. Forrest rarely drank and he abstained from tobacco usage. When he was provoked or angered, however, he would become savage, profane, and terrifying in appearance. Although he was not formally educated, Forrest was able to read and write in clear and grammatical English.\n\nAfter the Civil War broke out, Forrest returned to Tennessee from his Mississippi ventures and enlisted in the Confederate States Army (CSA) on June 14, 1861; he reported for training at Fort Wright near Randolph, Tennessee, joining Captain Josiah White's cavalry company, the Tennessee Mounted Rifles (Seventh Tennessee Cavalry), as a private along with his youngest brother and 15-year-old son. Upon seeing how badly equipped the CSA was, Forrest offered to buy horses and equipment with his own money for a regiment of Tennessee volunteer soldiers.\n\nHis superior officers and Governor of Tennessee Isham G. Harris were surprised that someone of Forrest's wealth and prominence had enlisted as a soldier, especially since major planters were exempted from service. They commissioned him as a lieutenant colonel and authorized him to recruit and train a battalion of Confederate mounted rangers. In October 1861, Forrest was given command of a regiment, the 3rd Tennessee Cavalry. Though Forrest had no prior formal military training or experience, he had exhibited leadership and soon proved he had a gift for successful tactics.\n\nPublic debate surrounded Tennessee's decision to join the Confederacy, and both the Confederate and Union armies recruited soldiers from the state. More than 100,000 men from Tennessee served with the Confederacy, and over 31,000 served with the Union. Forrest posted advertisements to join his regiment, with the slogan, \"Let's have some fun and kill some Yankees!\". Forrest's command included his Escort Company (his \"Special Forces\"), for which he selected the best soldiers available. This unit, which varied in size from 40 to 90 men, constituted the elite of his cavalry.\n\nAt in height and about , Forrest was physically imposing, especially compared to the average height of men at the time. He used his skills as a hard rider and fierce swordsman to great effect; he was known to sharpen both the top and bottom edges of his heavy saber. Forrest killed thirty enemy soldiers in hand-to hand combat.\n\nForrest received praise for his skill and courage during an early victory in the Battle of Sacramento in Kentucky, the first in which he commanded troops in the field, where he routed a Union force by personally leading a cavalry charge that was later commended by his commander, Brigadier General Charles Clark. Forrest distinguished himself further at the Battle of Fort Donelson in February 1862. After his cavalry captured a Union artillery battery, he broke out of a siege headed by Major General Ulysses S. Grant, rallying nearly 4,000 troops and leading them to escape across the Cumberland River.\n\nA few days after the Confederate surrender of Fort Donelson, with the fall of Nashville to Union forces imminent, Forrest took command of the city. All available carts and wagons were impressed into service to haul six hundred boxes of army clothing, 250,000 pounds of bacon, and forty wagon-loads of ammunition to the railroad depots to be sent off to Chattanooga and Decatur. Forrest arranged for the heavy ordnance machinery, including a new cannon rifling machine and fourteen cannons built at Brennan's machine shop, as well as parts from the Nashville Armory, to be sent to Atlanta for use by the Confederate Army; meanwhile the governor and legislature departed hastily for Memphis.\n\nA month later, Forrest was back in action at the Battle of Shiloh, fought April 6–7, 1862. He commanded a Confederate rear guard after the Union victory. In the battle of Fallen Timbers, he drove through the Union skirmish line. Not realizing that the rest of his men had halted their charge when reaching the full Union brigade, Forrest charged the brigade alone and soon found himself surrounded. He emptied his Colt Army revolvers into the swirling mass of Union soldiers and pulled out his saber, hacking and slashing. A Union infantryman on the ground beside Forrest fired a musket ball at him with a point-blank shot, nearly knocking him out of the saddle. The ball went through Forrest's pelvis and lodged near his spine. A surgeon removed the musket ball a week later, without anesthesia, which was unavailable.\n\nBy early summer, Forrest commanded a new brigade of \"green\" cavalry regiments. In July, he led them into Middle Tennessee under orders to launch a cavalry raid, and on July 13, 1862, led them into the First Battle of Murfreesboro, as a result of which all of the Union units surrendered to Forrest, and the Confederates destroyed much of the Union's supplies and railroad track in the area.\n\nPromoted on July 21, 1862 to brigadier general, Forrest was given command of a Confederate cavalry brigade. In December 1862, Forrest's veteran troopers were reassigned by General Braxton Bragg to another officer, against his protest. Forrest had to recruit a new brigade, composed of about 2,000 inexperienced recruits, most of whom lacked weapons. Again, Bragg ordered a series of raids, this time into west Tennessee, to disrupt the communications of the Union forces under Grant, which were threatening the city of Vicksburg, Mississippi. Forrest protested that to send such untrained men behind enemy lines was suicidal, but Bragg insisted, and Forrest obeyed his orders. In the ensuing raids he led thousands of Union soldiers in west Tennessee on a \"wild goose chase\" to try to locate his fast-moving forces. Never staying in one place long enough to be attacked, Forrest led his troops in raids as far north as the banks of the Ohio River in southwest Kentucky. His destruction of railroads around Grant's headquarters at Holly Springs and his cutting down of telegraph lines slowed the implementation of Grant's notorious anti-semitic General Orders #11, which expelled Jewish cotton traders and their families from Grant's military district. Grant had blamed Jews for widespread cotton smuggling and speculation that affected his ability to fight the Confederate Army.\n\nForrest returned to his base in Mississippi with more men than he had started with. By then, all were fully armed with captured Union weapons. As a result, Grant was forced to revise and delay the strategy of his Vicksburg campaign. Newspaper correspondent Sylvanus Cadwallader, who traveled with Grant for three years during his campaigns, wrote that Forrest \"was the only Confederate cavalryman of whom Grant stood in much dread\".\n\nThe Union Army gained military control of Tennessee in 1862 and occupied it for the duration of the war, having taken control of strategic cities and railroads. Forrest continued to lead his men in small-scale operations, including the Battle of Dover (1863) and the Battle of Brentwood until April 1863. The Confederate army dispatched him with a small force into the backcountry of northern Alabama and west Georgia to defend against an attack of 3,000 Union cavalrymen commanded by Colonel Abel Streight. Streight had orders to cut the Confederate railroad south of Chattanooga, Tennessee to cut off Bragg's supply line and force him to retreat into Georgia. Forrest chased Streight's men for 16 days, harassing them all the way. Streight's goal changed from dismantling the railroad to escaping the pursuit. On May 3, Forrest caught up with Streight's unit east of Cedar Bluff, Alabama. Forrest had fewer men than the Union side, but he repeatedly paraded some of them around a hilltop to appear a larger force, and convinced Streight to surrender his 1,500 or so exhausted troops (historians Kevin Dougherty and Keith S. Hebert say he had about 1,700 men).\n\nNot all of Forrest's feats of individual combat involved enemy troops. Lieutenant Andrew Wills Gould, an artillery officer in Forrest's command, was being transferred, presumably because cannons under his command were spiked (disabled) by the enemy during the Battle of Day's Gap. On June 13, 1863, Gould confronted Forrest about his transfer, which escalated into a violent exchange. Gould shot Forrest in the hip, and Forrest mortally stabbed Gould. Forrest was thought to have been fatally wounded by Gould, but he recovered and was ready for the Chickamauga Campaign.\n\nForrest served with the main army at the Battle of Chickamauga on September 18–20, 1863. He pursued the retreating Union army and took hundreds of prisoners. Like several others under Bragg's command, he urged an immediate follow-up attack to recapture Chattanooga, which had fallen a few weeks before. Bragg failed to do so, upon which Forrest was quoted as saying, \"What does he fight battles for?\" The story that Forrest confronted and threatened the life of Bragg in the fall of 1863, following the battle of Chickamauga, and that Bragg transferred Forrest to command in Mississippi as a direct result, is now considered to be apocryphal.\n\nOn December 4, 1863, Forrest was promoted to the rank of major general. On March 25, 1864, Forrest's cavalry raided the town of Paducah, Kentucky in the Battle of Paducah, during which Forrest demanded the surrender of U.S. Colonel Stephen G. Hicks: \"... if I have to storm your works, you may expect no quarter.\" The bluff failed and Hicks refused.\n\nFort Pillow, located 40 miles up river from Memphis (\"Henning\"), was originally constructed by Confederate general Gideon Johnson Pillow, on the bluffs of the Mississippi River, later taken over by Union forces in 1862, after the Confederates had abandoned the fort. The fort was manned by 557 Union troops, 295 white and 262 black, under Union commander Maj. L.F. Booth. \n\nOn the early morning of April 12, 1864, Forrest's men under Brig. Gen. James Chalmers, attacked and recaptured Fort Pillow. Booth and his adjutant were killed in battle, leaving Fort Pillow under the command of Major William Bradford At 10:00 Forrest reached the fort after a hard ride from Mississippi. Not shy of action, Forrest rode up to the battle, his horse was shot under him, and he fell to the ground. Undaunted, Forrest mounted a second horse, which was shot under him as well, forcing him to mount a third horse. By 3:30 pm, Forrest concluded the Fort could not be held anymore and ordered a flag of truce and that the fort be surrendered. Bradford refused to surrender, believing his troops could escape to the Union gunboat, USS \"New Era\", on the Mississippi River. Forrest's men immediately took over the fort, while Union soldiers retreated to the lower bluffs of the river, but the \"USS New Era\" did not come to their rescue. What happened next became known as the \"Fort Pillow Massacre\" As the Union troops surrendered, Forrest's men opened fire, slaughtering both black and white soldiers. White soldiers were killed at a rate of 31 percent, while black troops had a casualty rate of 64 percent. The atrocities at Fort Pillow continued throughout the night; conflicting accounts of what actually occurred were given later.\n\nForrest's Confederate forces were accused of subjecting Union captured soldiers to extreme brutality, with allegations of back-shooting soldiers who fled into the river, shooting wounded soldiers, burning men alive, nailing men to barrels and igniting them, crucifixion, and hacking men to death with sabers. Forrest's men were alleged to have set fire to a Union barracks with wounded Union soldiers inside In defense of their actions, Forrest's men insisted that the Union soldiers, although fleeing, kept their weapons and frequently turned to shoot, forcing the Confederates to keep firing in self-defense. The rebels said the Union flag was still flying over the fort, which indicated that the force had not formally surrendered. A contemporary newspaper account from Jackson, Tennessee stated that \"General Forrest begged them to surrender\", but \"not the first sign of surrender was ever given\". Similar accounts were reported in many Southern newspapers at the time. These statements, however, were contradicted by Union survivors, as well as by the letter of a Confederate soldier who graphically recounted a massacre. Achilles Clark, a soldier with the 20th Tennessee cavalry, wrote to his sisters immediately after the battle:\nFollowing the cessation of hostilities, Forrest transferred the 14 most seriously wounded United States Colored Troops (USCT) to the U.S. steamer \"Silver Cloud\". The 226 Union troops taken prisoner at Fort Pillow were marched under guard to Holly Springs, Mississippi, and then convoyed to Demopolis, Alabama. On April 21, Capt. John Goodwin, of Forrest's cavalry command, forwarded a dispatch listing the prisoners captured. The list included the names of 7 officers and 219 white enlisted soldiers. According to Richard L. Fuchs, records concerning the black prisoners are \"nonexistent or unreliable.\" President Abraham Lincoln asked his cabinet for opinions as to how the Union should respond to the massacre. General Sherman headed an investigation into the massacre and the extent of Forrest's culpability for it, in which Forrest was found blameless, as \"he was to the rear, out of sight if not of hearing at the time\" and \"stopped the firing as soon as he could.\" Additionally, Sherman \"was told by hundreds\" of Union soldiers that they were treated well, while prisoners under Forrest, at various times during the war.\n\nAt the time of the massacre, General Grant was no longer in Tennessee but had transferred to the east to command all Union troops. He wrote in his memoirs that Forrest in his report of the battle had \"left out the part which shocks humanity to read.\"\n\nThe Northern public and press viewed Forrest as a butcher and a war criminal over Fort Pillow. The \"Chicago Tribune\" said Forrest and his brothers were \"slave drivers and woman whippers,\" while Forrest himself was described as a tall, snake-eyed man, who was \"mean, vindictive, cruel, and unscrupulous.\"The Southern press steadfastly defended Forrest's reputation.\nForrest's greatest victory came on June 10, 1864, when his 3,500-man force clashed with 8,500 men commanded by Union Brig. Gen. Samuel D. Sturgis at the Battle of Brice's Crossroads in northeastern Mississippi. Here, the mobility of the troops under his command and his superior tactics led to victory; allowing him to continue harassing Union forces in southwestern Tennessee and northern Mississippi throughout the war. Forrest set up a position for an attack to repulse a pursuing force commanded by Sturgis, who had been sent to impede Forrest from destroying Union supply lines and fortifications. When Sturgis's Federal army came upon the crossroads, they collided with Forrest's cavalry. Sturgis ordered his infantry to advance to the front line to counteract the cavalry. The infantry, tired and weary and suffering under the heat, were quickly broken and sent into mass retreat. Forrest sent a full charge after the retreating army and captured 16 artillery pieces, 176 wagons, and 1,500 stands of small arms. In all, the maneuver cost Forrest 96 men killed and 396 wounded. The day was worse for Union troops, which suffered 223 killed, 394 wounded, and 1,623 missing. The losses were a deep blow to the black regiment under Sturgis's command. In the hasty retreat, they stripped off commemorative badges that read \"Remember Fort Pillow\" to avoid goading the Confederate force pursuing them.\n\nOne month later, while serving under General Stephen D. Lee, Forrest experienced tactical defeat at the Battle of Tupelo in 1864. Concerned about Union supply lines, Maj. Gen. Sherman sent a force under the command of Maj. Gen. Andrew J. Smith to deal with Forrest. Union forces drove the Confederates from the field and Forrest was wounded in the foot, but his forces were not wholly destroyed. He continued to oppose Union efforts in the West for the remainder of the war.\n\nForrest led other raids that summer and fall, including a famous one into Union-held downtown Memphis in August 1864 (the Second Battle of Memphis), and another on a major Union supply depot at Johnsonville, Tennessee. On November 4, 1864, during (the Battle of Johnsonville), the Confederates shelled the city, sinking three gunboats and nearly thirty other ships and destroying many tons of supplies. During Hood's Tennessee Campaign, he fought alongside General John Bell Hood, the newest (and last) commander of the Confederate Army of Tennessee, in the Second Battle of Franklin on November 30. Facing a disastrous defeat, Forrest argued bitterly with Hood (his superior officer) demanding permission to cross the Harpeth River and cut off the escape route of Union Maj. Gen. John M. Schofield's army. He eventually made the attempt, but it was too late.\n\nAfter his bloody defeat at Franklin, Hood continued on to Nashville. Hood ordered Forrest to conduct an independent raid against the Murfreesboro garrison. After success in achieving the objectives specified by Hood, Forrest engaged Union forces near Murfreesboro on December 5, 1864. In what would be known as the Third Battle of Murfreesboro, a portion of Forrest's command broke and ran. When Hood's battle-hardened Army of Tennessee, consisting of 40,000 men deployed in three infantry corps plus 10,000 to 15,000 cavalry, was all but destroyed on December 15–16, at the Battle of Nashville, Forrest distinguished himself by commanding the Confederate rear guard in a series of actions that allowed what was left of the army to escape. For this, he would later be promoted to the rank of lieutenant general on March 2, 1865. A portion of his command, now dismounted, was surprised and captured in their camp at Verona, Mississippi on December 25, 1864, during a raid of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad by a brigade of Brig. Gen. Benjamin Grierson's cavalry division.\n\nIn the spring of 1865, Forrest led an unsuccessful defense of the state of Alabama against Wilson's Raid. His opponent, Brig. Gen. James H. Wilson, defeated Forrest at the Battle of Selma on April 2, 1865. A week later, General Robert E. Lee surrendered to Grant in Virginia. When he received news of Lee's surrender, Forrest also chose to surrender. On May 9, 1865, at Gainesville, Forrest read his farewell address to the men under his command, enjoining them to \"submit to the powers to be, and to aid in restoring peace and establishing law and order throughout the land.\"\n\nWith slavery abolished after the war, Forrest suffered a major financial setback as a former slave trader. He became interested in the area around Crowley's Ridge during the war and settled in Memphis, Tennessee. In 1866, Forrest and C.C. McCreanor contracted to finish the Memphis & Little Rock Railroad. The commissary he built as a provisioning store for the 1,000 Irish laborers hired to lay the rails became the nucleus of a town, which most residents called \"Forrest's Town\" and which was incorporated as Forrest City, Arkansas in 1870.\n\nThe historian Court Carney writes that Forrest was not universally popular in the white Memphis community; he alienated many of the city's businessmen in his commercial dealings, and he was criticized for questionable business practices that caused him to default on debts.\n\nHe later found employment at the Selma-based Marion & Memphis Railroad and eventually became the company president. He was not as successful in railroad promoting as in war, and under his direction, the company went bankrupt. Nearly ruined as the result of this failure, Forrest spent his final days running an eight-hundred acre farm on land he leased on President's Island in the Mississippi River, where he and his wife lived in a log cabin. There, with the labor of over a hundred prison convicts, he grew corn, potatoes, vegetables, and cotton profitably, but his health was in steady decline.\n\nDuring the \"Virginius\" Affair of 1873, some of Forrest's old Southern friends were filibusters aboard the vessel so he wrote a letter to then General-in-Chief of the United States Army William T. Sherman and offered his services in case of war with Spain. Sherman, who in the Civil War had recognized what a deadly foe Forrest was, replied after the crisis settled down. He thanked Forrest for the offer and stated that had war broken out, he would have considered it an honor to have served side-by-side with him.\n\nForrest was an early member of the Ku Klux Klan (\"KKK\" or simply \"the Klan\"), which was formed by six veterans of the Confederate Army in Pulaski, Tennessee during the spring of 1866, and soon expanded throughout the state and beyond. Forrest became involved sometime in late 1866 or early 1867. A common report is that Forrest arrived in Nashville in April 1867 while the Klan was meeting at the Maxwell House Hotel, probably at the encouragement of a state Klan leader, former Confederate general George Gordon. The organization had grown to the point where an experienced commander was needed, and Forrest was well-suited to the role. In Room 10 of the Maxwell, Forrest was sworn in as a member by John W. Morton. Brian Steel Wills quotes two KKK members who identified Forrest as a Klan leader. James R. Crowe stated, \"After the order grew to large numbers we found it necessary to have someone of large experience to command. We chose General Forrest\". Another member wrote, \"N. B. Forest of Confederate fame was at our head, and was known as the Grand Wizard. I heard him make a speech in one of our Dens\". The title \"Grand Wizard\" was chosen because General Forrest had been known as \"The Wizard of the Saddle\" during the war. According to Jack Hurst's 1993 biography, \"Two years after Appomattox, Forrest was reincarnated as grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. As the Klan's first national leader, he became the Lost Cause's avenging angel, galvanizing a loose collection of boyish secret social clubs into a reactionary instrument of terror still feared today.\" Forrest was the Klan's first and only Grand Wizard, and he was active in recruitment for the Klan from 1867 to 1868.\n\nFollowing the war, the United States Congress began passing the Reconstruction Acts to lay out requirements for the former Confederate States to be readmitted to the Union, to include ratification of the Fourteenth (1868), and Fifteenth (1870) Amendments to the United States Constitution. The Fourteenth addressed citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws for former slaves, while the Fifteenth specifically secured the voting rights of black men. According to Wills, in the August 1867 state elections the Klan was relatively restrained in its actions. White Americans who made up the KKK hoped to persuade black voters that a return to their pre-war state of bondage was in their best interest. Forrest assisted in maintaining order. It was after these efforts failed that Klan violence and intimidation escalated and became widespread. Author Andrew Ward, however, writes, \"In the spring of 1867, Forrest and his dragoons launched a campaign of midnight parades; 'ghost' masquerades; and 'whipping' and even 'killing Negro voters and white Republicans, to scare blacks off voting and running for office'\".\n\nIn an 1868 interview by a Cincinnati newspaper, Forrest claimed that the Klan had 40,000 members in Tennessee and 550,000 total members throughout the Southern states. He said he sympathized with them, but denied any formal connection. He claimed he could muster thousands of men himself. He described the Klan as \"a protective political military organization... The members are sworn to recognize the government of the United States... Its objects originally were protection against Loyal Leagues and the Grand Army of the Republic...\". After only a year as Grand Wizard, in January 1869, faced with an ungovernable membership employing methods that seemed increasingly counterproductive, Forrest dissolved the Klan, ordered their costumes destroyed\", and withdrew from participation. His declaration had little effect, however, and few Klansmen destroyed their robes and hoods.\n\nAfter the lynch mob murder of four blacks, arrested for defending themselves at a barbecue, Forrest wrote to Tennessee Governor John C. Brown in August 1874 and \"volunteered to help ‘exterminate’ those men responsible for the continued violence against the blacks\", offering \"to exterminate the white marauders who disgrace their race by this cowardly murder of Negroes\".\n\nThe Klan's activity infiltrated the Democrat's campaign for the presidential election of 1868. Prominent ex-Confederates, including Forrest, the Grand Wizard of the Klan, and South Carolina's Wade Hampton, attended as delegates at the 1868 Democratic Convention, held at Tammany Hall in New York City (Tammany Hall was not a building). Forrest rode to the convention on a train that stopped in a small Northern town along the way, where he faced down a bully who wanted to fight the \"damned butcher\" of Fort Pillow. Former Governor of New York Horatio Seymour was nominated as the Democratic presidential candidate, while Forrest's friend, Frank Blair, Jr. was nominated as the Democratic vice presidential candidate, Seymour's running mate. The Seymour-Blair Democratic ticket's campaign slogan was: \"Our Ticket, Our Motto, This Is a White Man's Country; Let White Men Rule.\" The Democratic Party platform denounced the Reconstruction Acts as unconstitutional, void, and revolutionary. The party advocated termination of the Freedman's Bureau and any government policy designed to aid blacks in the South. All of this worked into the Republican's hands, who focused on the Democratic Party's alleged disloyalty during and after the Civil War.\n\nDuring the presidential election of 1868, the Ku Klux Klan under the leadership of Forrest, and other terrorist groups, used brutal violence and intimidation against blacks and Republican voters. Forrest played a prominent role in the spread of the Klan in the South, meeting with conservative whites in Atlanta several times between February and March 1868. Forrest probably organized a state wide Klan network in Georgia during these visits. On March 31 the Klan struck, killing prominent Republican organizer George Ashburn in Columbus.\n\nThe Republicans had nominated one of Forrest's battle adversaries, Union war hero Ulysses S. Grant, for the Presidency at their convention held in October. Klansmen took their orders from their former Confederate officers. In Kansas, there were over 2,000 murders committed to suppress blacks and Republicans from voting. In Georgia, Republicans and blacks received threats and beatings at a higher rate. In Louisiana, 1,000 blacks were killed to suppress Republican voting. The Klan's violence was primarily designed to intimidate voters, targeting black and white supporters of the Republican Party. The Klan's violent tactics backfired, as Grant, whose slogan was \"Let us have peace,\" won the election and Republicans gained a majority in Congress. Grant defeated Horatio Seymour, the Democratic presidential candidate, by a comfortable electoral margin, 214 to 80. The popular vote was much closer as Grant received 3,013,365 (\"52.7 %\") votes, while Seymour received 2,708,744 (\"47.3 %\") votes. Grant lost Kansas, Georgia, and Louisiana, where the violence and intimidation against blacks was most prominent.\n\nMany in the north, including President Grant, backed the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment, that gave voting rights to Americans regardless of \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude\". Congress and Grant passed the Enforcement Acts from 1870 to 1871, to protect \"registration, voting, officeholding, or jury service\" of African Americans. Under these laws enforced by Grant and the newly formed Department of Justice, there were over 5,000 indictments and 1,000 convictions of Klan members across the South.\n\nForrest testified before the Congressional investigation of Klan activities on June 27, 1871. He denied membership, but his individual role in the KKK was beyond the scope of the investigating committee, which wrote, \"our design is not to connect General Forrest with this order, (the reader may form his own conclusion upon this question... .\" The committee also noted, \"The natural tendency of all such organizations is to violence and crime; hence it was that General Forrest and other men of influence in the state, by the exercise of their moral power, induced them to disband\". George Cantor, a biographer of Confederate generals, wrote, \"Forrest ducked and weaved, denying all knowledge, but admitted he knew some of the people involved. He sidestepped some questions and pleaded failure of memory on others. Afterwards, he admitted to 'gentlemanly lies.' He wanted nothing more to do with the Klan, but felt honor bound to protect former associates.\"\n\nOn July 5, 1875, Forrest demonstrated that his personal sentiments on the issue of race now differed from those of the Klan when he was invited to give a speech before the Independent Order of Pole-Bearers Association, a post-war organization of black Southerners advocating to improve the economic condition of blacks and to gain equal rights for all citizens. At this, his last public appearance, he made what \"The New York Times\" described as a \"friendly speech\" during which, when offered a bouquet of flowers by a young black woman, he accepted them, thanked her and kissed her on the cheek as a token of reconciliation between the races. Forrest ignored his critics and spoke in encouragement of black advancement and of endeavoring to be a proponent for espousing peace and harmony between black and white Americans.\n\nIn response to the Pole-Bearers speech, the Cavalry Survivors Association of Augusta, the first Confederate organization formed after the war, called a meeting in which Captain F. Edgeworth Eve gave a speech expressing unmitigated disapproval of Forrest's remarks promoting inter-ethnic harmony, ridiculing his faculties and judgment and berating the woman who gave Forrest flowers as \"a mulatto wench\". The association voted unanimously to amend its constitution to expressly forbid publicly advocating for or hinting at any association of white women and girls as being in the same classes as \"females of the negro race\". The \"Macon Weekly Telegraph\" newspaper also condemned Forrest for his speech, describing the event as \"the recent disgusting exhibition of himself at the negro [sic] jamboree\" and quoting part of a \"Charlotte Observer\" article, which read \"We have infinitely more respect for Longstreet, who fraternizes with negro men on public occasions, with the pay for the treason to his race in his pocket, than with Forrest and [General] Pillow, who equalize with the negro women, with only 'futures' in payment\".\n\nForrest reportedly died from acute complications of diabetes at the Memphis home of his brother Jesse on October 29, 1877. His eulogy was delivered by his recent spiritual mentor, former Confederate chaplain George Tucker Stainback, who declared in his eulogy: \"Lieutenant-General Nathan Bedford Forrest, though dead, yet speaketh. His acts have photographed themselves upon the hearts of thousands, and will speak there forever.\n\nForrest was buried at Elmwood Cemetery in Memphis. In 1904, the remains of Forrest and his wife Mary were disinterred from Elmwood and moved to a Memphis city park that was originally named Forrest Park in his honor, but has since been renamed Health Sciences Park.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, the Memphis City Council unanimously voted to remove the statue of Forrest from Health Sciences Park, and to return the remains of Forrest and his wife to Elmwood Cemetery. However, on October 13, 2017, the Tennessee Historical Commission invoked the Tennessee Heritage Protection Act of 2013 and U.S. Public Law 85-425: Sec. 410 to overrule the city. Consequently, Memphis sold the park land to an entity not subject to the Tennessee Heritage Protection Act (Memphis Greenspace), which immediately removed the monument as explained below.\n\nMany memorials have been erected to Forrest, especially in Tennessee and other Southern states. Forrest County, Mississippi is named after him, as is Forrest City, Arkansas. Obelisks in his memory were placed at his birthplace in Chapel Hill, Tennessee and at Nathan Bedford Forrest State Park near Camden.\n\nForrest was elevated in Memphis in particular—where he lived and died—to the status of folk hero. \"Embarrassed by their city's early capitulation during the Civil War, white Memphians desperately needed a hero and therefore crafted a distorted depiction of Forrest's role in the war.\" A memorial to him, the first Civil War memorial in Memphis, was erected in 1905 in a new Nathan Bedford Forrest Park. A bust sculpted by Jane Baxendale is on display at the Tennessee State Capitol building in Nashville. The World War II Army base Camp Forrest in Tullahoma, Tennessee was named after him. It is now the site of the Arnold Engineering Development Center.\n\n, Tennessee had 32 dedicated historical markers linked to Nathan Bedford Forrest, more than are dedicated to all three former Presidents associated with the state combined: Andrew Jackson, James K. Polk, and Andrew Johnson (none of whom were born in Tennessee). The Tennessee legislature established July 13 as \"Nathan Bedford Forrest Day\".\nA monument to Forrest in the Confederate Circle section of Old Live Oak Cemetery in Selma, Alabama reads \"Defender of Selma, Wizard of the Saddle, Untutored Genius, The first with the most. This monument stands as testament of our perpetual devotion and respect for Lieutenant General Nathan Bedford Forrest. CSA 1821–1877, one of the South's finest heroes. In honor of Gen. Forrest's unwavering defense of Selma, the great state of Alabama, and the Confederacy, this memorial is dedicated. DEO VINDICE\". As an armory for the Confederacy, Selma provided a substantial part of the South's ammunition during the Civil War. The bust of Forrest was stolen from the cemetery monument in March 2012 and replaced in May of 2015. A monument to Forrest at a corner of Veterans Plaza in Rome, Georgia was erected by the United Daughters of the Confederacy in 1909 to honor his bravery for saving Rome from Union Army Colonel Abel Streight and his cavalry.\n\nHigh schools named for Forrest were built in Chapel Hill, Tennessee and Jacksonville, Florida. In 2008, the Duval County School Board voted 5–2 against a push to change the name of Nathan Bedford Forrest High School in Jacksonville. In 2013, the board voted 7-0 to begin the process to rename the school. The school was named for Forrest in 1959 at the urging of the Daughters of the Confederacy because they were upset about the 1954 \"Brown v. Board of Education\" decision. At the time the school was all white, but now more than half the student body is black. After several public forums and discussions, Westside High School was unanimously approved in January 2014 as the school's new name.\n\nIn August 2000, a road on Fort Bliss named for Forrest decades earlier was renamed for former post commander Richard T. Cassidy. In 2005, Shelby County Commissioner Walter Bailey started an effort to move the statue over Forrest's grave and rename Forrest Park. Former Memphis Mayor Willie Herenton, who is black, blocked the move. Others have tried to get a bust of Forrest removed from the Tennessee House of Representatives chamber. Leaders in other localities have also tried to remove or eliminate Forrest monuments, with mixed success.\n\nIn 1978, Middle Tennessee State University abandoned imagery it had formerly used (in 1951, the school's yearbook, \"The Midlander\", featured the first appearance of Forrest's likeness as MTSU’s official mascot) and MTSU president M.G Scarlett removed the General's image from the university's official seal. The Blue Raiders' athletic mascot was changed to an ambiguous swash-buckler character called the \"Blue Raider\", to avoid association with Forrest or the Confederacy. The school unveiled its latest mascot, a winged horse called \"Lightning\" inspired by the mythological Pegasus, during halftime of a basketball game against rival Tennessee State University on January 17, 1998. The ROTC building at MTSU was named Forrest Hall to honor him in 1958. In 2006, the frieze depicting General Forrest on horseback that had adorned the side of this building was removed amid protests, but a major push to change its name failed on February 16, 2018, when the Tennessee Historical Commission denied Middle Tennessee State University's petition to rename Forrest Hall.\n\nGreat-grandson Nathan Bedford Forrest III first pursued a military career in cavalry, then in aviation attained the rank of brigadier general in the United States Army Air Forces where he became the first U.S. general to be killed in action in World War II, while participating in a June 13, 1943 bombing raid over Germany. His family received the Distinguished Service Cross (second only to the Medal of Honor) he was awarded posthumously for staying with the controls of his B-17 bomber while his crew bailed out; the aircraft exploded before Forrest himself could bail out. By the time German air-sea rescue arrived, only one of the crew was still alive in the water.\n\nForrest is considered one of the Civil War's most brilliant tacticians by the historian Spencer C. Tucker. Forrest fought by simple rules: he maintained, \"[W]ar means fighting and fighting means killing\" and the way to win was \"to get there first with the most men\". Union General William Tecumseh Sherman called him \"that devil Forrest\" in wartime communications with Ulysses S. Grant and considered him \"the most remarkable man our civil war produced on either side\".\n\nForrest became well known for his early use of maneuver tactics as applied to a mobile horse cavalry deployment. He grasped the doctrines of mobile warfare that would eventually become prevalent in the 20th century. Paramount in his strategy was fast movement, even if it meant pushing his horses at a killing pace, to constantly harass his enemy during raids and disrupt supply trains and enemy communications by destroying railroad tracks and cutting telegraph lines, as he wheeled around his opponent's flank. Noted Civil War scholar Bruce Catton writes:\nForrest is often erroneously quoted as saying his strategy was to \"git thar fustest with the mostest\". Now often recast as \"Getting there firstest with the mostest\", this misquote first appeared in a \"New York Tribune\" article written to provide colorful comments in reaction to European interest in Civil War generals. The aphorism was addressed and corrected as \"Ma'am, I got there first with the most men\" by a \"New York Times\" story in 1918. Though a novel and succinct condensation of the military principles of mass and maneuver, Bruce Catton writes:\n\n\nModern historians generally believe that Forrest's attack on Fort Pillow was a massacre, noting high casualty rates, and the rebels targeting black soldiers. The consensus of recent historians is that Forrest did not order the massacre; after thorough investigation he was not charged with a crime nor dereliction of duty. It was, however, the South's publicly stated position that slaves firing on whites would be killed on the spot, along with Southern whites that fought for the Union, whom the Confederacy considered traitors. According to this analysis, Forrest's troops were carrying out Confederate policy, and were simply obeying orders. By his inaction Forrest showed that he felt no compunction to stop the slaughter, and his repeated denials that he knew a massacre was taking place, or even that a massacre had occurred at all, are not credible. Consequently, despite this isolated incident in his otherwise distinguished career as a general, his role in it was a stigmatizing one for him the rest of his life, both professionally and personally, and contributed to his business problems after the war.\n\nAfter Forrest's death, \"The New York Times\" reported that \"General Bedford Forrest, the great Confederate cavalry officer, died at 7:30 o'clock this evening at the residence of his brother, Colonel Jesse Forrest,\" but also reported that it would not be for military victories that Forrest would pass into history. Forrest's claims that the Fort Pillow massacre was an invention of northern reporters were directly disputed in letters written by Confederate soldiers to their own families, which described wanton brutality on the part of Confederate troops. The New York newspaper obituary stated:\n\nHistorians have differed in their interpretations of the events at Fort Pillow. Richard L. Fuchs, author of \"An Unerring Fire\", concluded:\nAndrew Ward downplays the controversy:\nJohn Cimprich states:\nThe site is now a Tennessee State Historic Park.\n\nGrant himself described Forrest as \"a brave and intrepid cavalry general\" while noting that Forrest sent a dispatch on the Fort Pillow Massacre \"in which he left out the part which shocks humanity to read.\"\n\nIn the 1990 PBS documentary \"The Civil War\" by Ken Burns, historian Shelby Foote states in Episode 7 that the Civil War produced two \"authentic geniuses\": Abraham Lincoln and Nathan Bedford Forrest. When expressing this opinion to one of General Forrest's granddaughters, she replied after a pause, \"You know, we never thought much of Mr. Lincoln in my family\". Foote also made Forrest a major character in his novel \"Shiloh\", which used numerous first-person stories to illustrate a detailed timeline and account of the battle.\n\nForrest's legacy as \"one of the most controversial – and popular – icons of the war\" still draws heated public debate. A 2011 Mississippi license plate proposal to honor him, by the Sons of Confederate Veterans, revived tensions and raised objections from Mississippi chapter of the NAACP president Derrick Johnson, who compared Forrest to Osama bin Laden and Saddam Hussein. The Mississippi NAACP petitioned Governor Haley Barbour to denounce the plates and prevent their distribution. Barbour refused to denounce the honor, noting instead that the state legislature would not be likely to approve the plate anyway.\n\nIn 2000, a monument to Forrest in Selma, Alabama, was unveiled. On March 10, 2012, it was vandalized and the bronze bust of the general disappeared. In August, a historical society called Friends of Forrest moved forward with plans for a new, larger monument, which was to be 12 feet high, illuminated by LED lights, surrounded by a wrought-iron fence and protected by 24-hour security cameras. The plans triggered outrage and a group of around 20 protesters attempted to block construction of the new monument by lying in the path of a concrete truck. Local lawyer and radio host Rose Sanders said, \"Glorifying Nathan B. Forrest here is like glorifying a Nazi in Germany. For Selma, of all places, to have a big monument to a Klansman is totally unacceptable\". An online petition at Change.org asking the City Council to ban the monument collected 313,617 signatures by mid-September of the same year.\n\nForrest Park in Memphis was renamed Health Sciences Park in 2013, amid substantial controversy. In light of the 2015 church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina, some Tennessee lawmakers advocated removing a bust of Forrest located in the state's Capitol building. Subsequently, then-Mayor A.C. Wharton urged removal of the statue of Forrest in Health Sciences Park and suggested the relocation of Forrest and his wife to their original burial site in nearby Elmwood Cemetery. In a nearly unanimous vote on July 7, the Memphis City Council passed a resolution in favor of removing the statue and securing the couple's remains for transfer. The Tennessee Historical Commission denied removal on October 21, 2016 under its authority granted by the Tennessee Heritage Protection Act of 2013, which protects war memorials on public property from cities or counties relocating, removing, renaming, or otherwise disturbing them without permission. The City Council then voted on December 20, 2017 to sell Health Science Park to Memphis Greenspace, a new non-profit corporation not subject to the Heritage Protection Act, which removed the statue that same evening. The Sons of Confederate Veterans threatened a lawsuit against the city. On April 18, 2018, the Tennessee House of Representatives punished the city of Memphis, by cutting $250,000 in appropriations for the city's bicentennial celebration, for selling two city parks to Memphis Greenspace, which had removed a statue of Forrest from the Health Sciences Park, and a statue of Confederate President Jefferson Davis from an easement in Fourth Bluff Park.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27859189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27859189", "title": "Necati Arabaci", "text": "Necati Arabaci\n\nNecati \"Neco\" Arabaci (born 14 February 1972 in Cologne) is a Turkish businessman, criminal and high-ranking member of the Hells Angels, who was formerly active in Cologne, Germany and now lives in Turkey. In 2002 he was arrested in Germany for pimping, human trafficking, assault, extortion, weapons violations, and racketeering. He confessed during his trial in 2004 and was sentenced to nine years in prison. He was released in 2007 and deported to Turkey.\n\nThe so-called Arabaci-Clan reportedly controlled the bouncer scene of the night clubs in Cologne's entertainment district, the \"Kölner Ringe\", and his gang of bouncers reportedly befriended girls in order to exploit them as prostitutes. Arabaci also controlled several brothels in the Rhein-Ruhr region of Germany.\n\nWhile already in prison, he reputedly still controlled the \"Colosseum\" brothel in Augsburg. In 2008 after his deportation, police still strongly suspected him to control the brothel and several members of Arabaci's clan were sighted in Berlin in 2008, possibly trying to gain a foothold for the gang in the city's red-light scene.\n\nDuring his detention in Germany, Arabaci reportedly plotted to kill the prosecutor, and hired an Albanian contract killer from Duisburg. The police had bugged his visiting room, and the prosecutor was given bodyguards and police protection. Based on the transcripts, Arabaci was prosecuted again, with the aim of obtaining \"Sicherungsverwahrung\" (indefinite imprisonment of extremely dangerous criminals). At trial, mis-translation of some of the transcripts was detected, and Arabaci was acquitted. The prosecutor fled Germany in 2007 when Arabaci was deported to Turkey.\nAn insider reported, that Arabaci has signed a cooperation with the Street Gang \"United Tribuns\".\n\nIn 2010 it was reported that Arabaci took part in a meeting of international Hells Angels bosses in Izmir, Turkey. He had just been appointed president of the \"Hells Angels MC Nomads Turkey\". In 2013 Arabaci was seen as a possible new leader of the European Hells Angels, after previous leader Frank Hanebuth had been arrested in Spain.\n\nIn 2015, Spanish authorities issued a warrant for Arabaci's arrest, valid throughout the European Union. He is accused of membership in a criminal organization, extortion, drug trafficking and involvement in brothels in Spain. Turkey does not extradite Turkish citizens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3116105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3116105", "title": "Paul Wallot", "text": "Paul Wallot\n\nJohann Paul Wallot (26 June 1841 Oppenheim am Rhein – 10 August 1912 Bad Schwalbach) was a German architect of Huguenot descent, best known for designing the Reichstag building in Berlin, erected between 1884 and 1894. He also built the adjacent Palace of the President of the Reichstag, finished in 1904, and the former Saxon \"Ständehaus\" state diet building of 1906 at Brühl's Terrace in Dresden.\n\nAs a descendant of the Huguenot noble family Vallot, which originates in South of France, Paul Wallot was born on 26 June 1841 at Krämerstraße 7 in Oppenheim. In the years 1856 to 1859 he attended the Technische Universität Darmstadt. He then studied for a year at the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Universität Hannover with Conrad Wilhelm Hase and moved to the Berlin Bauakademie in 1861. He graduated from University of Giessen with Hugo von Ritgen.\n\nFollowing his studies, Wallot worked for a year as a 'Bauakzessist' in Hessen. Between the years 1864 and 1868 he worked again in Berlin with the architects Heinrich Strack, Richard Lucae and Friedrich Hitzig. Wallot was also able to sit in the common studio of the architects Martin Gropius and Heino Schmieden.\n\nFrom 1867 to 1868, Wallot undertook extensive study trips through Italy and the Great Britain. In the year of his return, he settled in Frankfurt am Main as an independent architect. In this function, he was responsible for various private and commercial buildings and became a member of the Masonic lodge \"Socrates to fortitude\". In Frankfurt he also worked with the architects Heinrich Burnitz and Alfred Friedrich Bluntschli.\n\nIn 1872, Wallot undertook a second study trip to Italy, where he became particularly interested in works by the architects Andrea Palladio and Michele Sanmicheli. After returning from this trip, he took part in various architectural competitions, such as, the Frankfurt Central Station in 1880 and the Niederwald Monument in 1883. However, his applications were not successful.\n\nWallot made his breakthrough when he won the second competition for the Reichstag building in Berlin victorious in 1882. With his colleague Friedrich von Thiersch, Wallot shared the competition’s first prize, but his design was almost unanimously voted by the jury. In 1883, Wallot settled in Berlin to better monitor the construction. On 9 June 1884, the foundation ceremony was celebrated, and a ten years later, on 5 December, 1894, the capstone was set solemnly.\nThe glazed iron dome above an official building, such as the Reichstag building, was astonishing and can be described as progressive in view of the further developments in architecture. Nevertheless, the construction was highly controversial throughout its construction period. With its original height of 67 meters, the dome was higher than that of the Stadtschloss, Berlin. In the construction commission for the Reichstag building sat competitors who were inferior to him in the competition. Kaiser Wilhelm II called the Reichstag building \"Reichsaffenhaus \", (Reich monkey house), which, however, also referred to the democratic legal form of parliamentarism. \n\nA key scene of the dispute between Wallot and Wilhelm II is a visit by Wilhelm II in Wallot’s studio. During his visit, Wilhelm grabbed a pen, edited the floor plan of the Reichstag building only to then tell the eighteen-years older Wallot “My son, this is how we do it.” Wallot replied \"Your Majesty, that will not work!\" In addition, the building commission made several major changes to the building, since not only the wishes of the Prussian government, but above all those of the German Kaiser Wilhelm II, Friedrich III. and Wilhelm II had to be considered.\n\nIn 1889, Wallot had already thought about the interior design and contracted the painter Franz von Stuck (two monumental ceiling paintings) and the sculptor Adolf von Hildebrand (two ballot boxes). When the drafts were presented on in the Reichstag on 1 March 1899 and were to be voted on, there were tumultuous scenes. Spokesman of the critics was the Philipp Ernst Maria Lieber of the Center Party from Bad Camberg. The rejection was so great that Wallot resigned the same day as head of the Decoration Commission. Thereupon Lieber was accepted in this commission. The designs of the paintings and the urns have disappeared from this day.\n\nProbably since Wallot had rejected in 1889 a change request Wilhelm II, the relationship between the two was disturbed. The emperor refused the architect, despite different recommendations, several awards. In 1894, Wallot received only the small gold medal, not the Roter Adlerorden, but only the title of Geheimer Baurat instead of the great gold medal of the Große Berliner Kunstausstellung] \" he was awarded in 1894 for his services to the Reichstag.\nAt the same time he accepted teaching assignments at the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts and at Dresden University of Technology, which he held until 1911. In Dresden, the new building of the Saxonian Estates Houses on the Brühlsche Terrasse was also transferred to him. Oswin Hempel, Karl Paul Andrae and Wilhelm Fränkel were some of his disciples.\n\nFrom Dresden he also directed from 1897 to 1907 the establishment of the presidential building of the Reichstag.\nIn the years 1898 and 1899, Paul Wallot led the competition for the construction of Bismarck monuments in the German Reich, which had proclaimed the German Student Union. In 1911 he resigned all offices and retired. He retired to his retirement home in Biebrich on the Rhine. During a stay at the spa, Paul Wallot died at the age of 71 on August 10, 1912 in Langenschwalbach, today the county seat of the Rheingau-Taunus-Kreis Bad Schwalbach. His burial took place in the family grave in Oppenheim, which was designed by Alfred Friedrich Bluntschli.\n\n\n1875: Residential and commercial building in Frankfurt (Main), Kaiserstraße 25 / Neue Mainzer Straße 26 for the Frankfurt banker Carl Müller\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16245947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16245947", "title": "RABaD", "text": "RABaD\n\nRABad (ראב”ד, pronounced also Raavad, Ravad or Raivid) is a Hebrew acronym which most commonly refers to Rabbi Abraham Ben David, or the RABaD III. There are three rabbis and scholars referred to by this acronym:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38029051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38029051", "title": "Richard J. Stephenson", "text": "Richard J. Stephenson\n\nRichard J Stephenson (born c. 1940) is an American investment banker. He is the founder and chairman of Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA), a for-profit network of five hospitals.\n\nStephenson is a graduate of Wabash College and Northwestern University School of Law.\n\nStephenson led an investment group that in 1975 purchased a hospital in Zion, Illinois and renamed it American International Hospital.\n\nStephenson founded CTCA in 1988 \"following his mother’s death from bladder cancer, [and he] ... holds investments in a broad portfolio of other businesses, including finance and real estate companies\", according to a 2012 profile in the \"Washington Post\".\n\nStephenson is married to Dr Stacie J. Stephenson, a physician, integrative medicine lecturer, and philanthropist.\n\n"}
{"id": "55669757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55669757", "title": "Ruby Karp", "text": "Ruby Karp\n\nRuby Karp (born August 30, 2000) is an American writer and comedian.\n\nKarp began writing professionally in 2011 at the age of 10 when Molly McAleer, co-founder of Hello Giggles, asked her to contribute to the website by writing \"Ruby's Corner\", a weekly column that covered a variety of topics involving her observations and life experiences. She has also written articles for Mashable titled \"I'm 13 and None of My Friends Use Facebook\", which went viral, and \"How 13-Year-Olds Really Use Snapchat\". In 2017, she published her first book, \"Earth Hates Me\", an inside look at being a teenager. She has also written for Refinery29 as well as the \"Sparklife\" section of the education-oriented blog \"SparkNotes\".\n\nOn her third birthday, Karp found herself onstage at UCB as a guest on \"Talk Show with Paul Scheer and Jake Fogelnest\". Since then, she's performed monologues at ASSSSCAT, a monoscene with Chris Gethard, and appeared in an alien costume in a performance of the \"Broad City Live\" show in 2012. In 2004, she appeared on the first episode of \"Shutterbugs\" with Aziz Ansari and Rob Huebel on the MTV sketch comedy television show \"Human Giant\". In 2008, Karp spoke about being a feminist with Amy Poehler on her web series \"Smart Girls at the Party\" when she was 7 years old. She performed in a variety of shows at UCB and, in February 2011, started hosting the story-telling show, \"Hello Giggles Presents Very Important Things\". This show has since become the current, monthly stand-up show, \"We Hope You have Fun\". She has performed stand up at other UCB shows including \"Fresh Out\", \"Adulting\", and \"Andy Blitz and Andy Blitz's Friends\".\n\nKarp won a MOTH Story Slam when she was 12 years old at Housing Works. She spoke about being a feminist at TEDxRedmond in September 2013. She was an ambassador for Dove on positive body image and spoke at the UN on this topic on September 25, 2014. She hosted the second annual \"Student Voice Live\" on September 20, 2014. In September 2017, she moderated the B-Fest panel at Barnes and Noble.\n\nKarp is a senior in high school and lives with her mother in New York City. Her mother, Marcelle Karp, is a TV producer and a co-founder of the women's lifestyle magazine \"Bust\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35912296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35912296", "title": "Sagaiguninini", "text": "Sagaiguninini\n\nThe Sagaiguninini (‘people of the lake’) were allegedly a sub-nation of the Algonquin group.\nIn 1630-1640, the group lived south-west of the Ottawa river and may have been unrelated to the rest, \"as nearly all the other bands are on or northeast of the Ottawa River\". They lived east of Georgian Bay and what is now know to locals as \"The Big Three\" lakes in Ontario (Lake Rosseau, Lake Muskoka, Lake Joseph). Very little is known about this group today, however the Algonquin word \"sagaigun\" means lake and their name is still part of the local culture and language. The town of Seguin, Ontario and the steam ship RMS Segwun are good example of names that have carried into the modern age.\n"}
{"id": "2366572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366572", "title": "Sanmao (comics)", "text": "Sanmao (comics)\n\nSanmao () is a manhua character created by Zhang Leping in 1935. He is one of the world's longest running cartoon characters and remains a landmark as one of the most famous and beloved fictional characters in China today.\n\nThe name Sanmao means \"three hairs\" in Chinese. While the character has undergone a number of transitions over time, he has always been drawn with the trademark three strands of hair, which implies malnutrition as a result of poverty.\n\nMost Chinese comic books prior to Sanmao featured adults and the Sanmao stories were also unusual in that they lacked dialogue and could therefore be classified as pantomime comics. When Zhang Leping created the manhua comic series, his main goal was to dramatize the confusion brought about to society by the Second Sino-Japanese War. He wanted to express his concern for the young victims of the war, particularly the orphans living on the streets. Most of the changes in the characters would come after World War II during the liberation in 1949.\n\nSanmao's image has also been evolving throughout time, and in some modern continuation of the comics, he is depicted as a healthy, normal student. The character has also been portrayed as living through some of the most important periods in Chinese history and to futuristic space explorations.\n\nThe comic takes place mainly during the 1930s and early 1940s and is set in Old Shanghai in its \"golden era\". Sanmao lived mostly in misery and stark poverty against a backdrop of war, colonization, and inflation.\n\nThe character made his first appearance in Comic and was later adapted into different formats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2210009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2210009", "title": "Si-Te-Cah", "text": "Si-Te-Cah\n\nAccording to Paiute oral history, the Si-Te-Cah, Saiduka or Sai'i are a legendary tribe whose mummified remains were allegedly discovered under four feet of guano by guano miners in what is now known as Lovelock Cave in Lovelock, Nevada, United States. Although the cave had been mined since 1911, miners did not notify authorities until 1912. The miners destroyed many of the artifacts, but archaeologists were still able to retrieve 10,000 Paiute artifacts from the cave. Items included tule duck decoys, sandals, and baskets, several dating back over 2000 years.\n\n\"Si-Te-Cah\" literally means “tule-eaters” in the language of the Paiute Indians. Tule is a fibrous water plant. In order to escape harassment from the Paiutes, the Si-Te-Cahs were said to have lived on rafts made of tule on the lake.\n\nAccording to the Paiutes, the Si-Te-Cah were a red-haired band of cannibalistic giants. The Si-Te-Cah and the Paiutes were at war, and after a long struggle a coalition of tribes trapped the remaining Si-Te-Cah in Lovelock Cave. When they refused to come out, the Indians piled brush before the cave mouth and set it aflame. The Si-Te-Cah were annihilated.\n\nSarah Winnemucca Hopkins, daughter of Paiute Chief Winnemucca, wrote about what she described as \"a small tribe of barbarians\" who ate her people in her book \"Life Among the Piutes: Their Wrongs and Claims\" - she wrote that \"after my people had killed them all, the people round us called us Say-do-carah. It means conqueror; it also means \"enemy.\" \"My people say that the tribe we exterminated had reddish hair. I have some of their hair, which has been handed down from father to son. I have a dress which has been in our family a great many years, trimmed with the reddish hair. I am going to wear it some time when I lecture. It is called a mourning dress, and no one has such a dress but my family.\" Hopkins does not mention giants.\n\nAdrienne Mayor writes about the Si-Te-Cah in her book \"Legends of the First Americans\". She suggests that the 'giant' interpretation of the skeletons from Lovelock Cave and other dry caves in Nevada was started by entrepreneurs setting up tourist displays and that the skeletons themselves were of normal size. However, about a hundred miles north of Lovelock there are plentiful fossils of mammoths and cave bears, and their large limb bones could easily be thought to be those of giants by an untrained observer. She also discusses the reddish hair, pointing out that hair pigment is not stable after death and that various factors such as temperature, soil, etc. can turn ancient very dark hair rusty red or orange. Another explanation for the 'giant' interpretation of the skeletons may also come from the fact that some of the first remains unearthed by the guano miners in 1911-12 were described as “giant\". \n\nA written report by James H. Hart, the first of two miners to excavate the cave in the fall of 1911, recalls that in the north-central part of the cave, about four feet deep, \"was a striking looking body of a man “six feet six inches tall.” His body was mummified and his hair distinctly red.\" Unfortunately in the first year of mining, some of the human remains and artifacts were lost and destroyed. \"The best specimen of the adult mummies was boiled and destroyed by a local fraternal lodge, which wanted the skeleton for initiation purposes.\" Also, several of the fiber sandals found in the cave were remarkably large, and one reported at over 15 inches (38 cm) in length was said to be on display at the Nevada Historical Society's museum in Reno in 1952.\n\nThe Paiute tradition asserts that the Si-Te-Cah people practiced cannibalism, and this may have had some basis in fact. During the 1924 excavation of the cave, a series of three human bones were found near the surface towards the mouth of the cave. \"These had been split to extract the marrow, as animal bones were split, and probably indicate cannibalism during a famine.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9520291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9520291", "title": "Tadas Ivanauskas Zoological Museum", "text": "Tadas Ivanauskas Zoological Museum\n\nThe Tadas Ivanauskas Zoological Museum was established in Kaunas, Lithuania, in 1919 by Tadas Ivanauskas (1882–1970).\n\nThe museum collects and exhibits various animals: hunting trophies, stuffed animals, insect collections, skeletons, dissections. It is also an educational and research institution that has four branches: bird ringing stations in Ventė Cape and Juodkrantė, nature reserves in Čepkeliai Marsh and Lake Žuvintas.\n"}
{"id": "36637069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36637069", "title": "The kid (Blood Meridian)", "text": "The kid (Blood Meridian)\n\nThe kid is a nameless central character in the 1985 historical novel \"Blood Meridian\", by Cormac McCarthy. The first sentence of the novel opens with \"see the child\", which tells the reader the significance of this character. These words also serve to advise the reader of the dissimilar nature of the kid in relation to the novel's antagonist, Judge Holden, and the members of John Joel Glanton's gang. When viewing the novel as a bildungsroman, the story follows the maturation of the kid who had developed distinct values just before the end of the book.\n\nHe is the focal point for the first six chapters, where he leaves Tennessee, rides with the filibusters, and is jailed in Chihuahua City. There he meets Toadvine for the second time, eyes Holden for the second time, and joins Glanton's gang. However, in chapters seven through nineteen the focus is no longer exclusively on the kid. In this section of the book he disappears from the action and then reappears. The final chapters again focus on the kid. \n\nUnlike Holden, the kid's physical description is sparse and bereft of details. All that is known is that he is \"pale and thin\", but he does have \"big wrists, and big hands\". In contrast to his outwardly violent lifestyle, his eyes are \"oddly innocent\". The kid's interior life is not explicitly expressed throughout the novel, and when he speaks it is very brief.\n"}
{"id": "34647458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34647458", "title": "Violet May Cottrell", "text": "Violet May Cottrell\n\nViolet May Cottrell (17 May 1887 – 28 May 1971) was a New Zealand writer, poet and spiritualist. She was born in Napier, Hawke's Bay, New Zealand on 17 May 1887.\n"}
{"id": "420909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420909", "title": "Walter Dornberger", "text": "Walter Dornberger\n\nMajor-General Dr. Walter Robert Dornberger (6 September 1895 – 27 June 1980) was a German Army artillery officer whose career spanned World War I and World War II. He was a leader of Nazi Germany's V-2 rocket program and other projects at the Peenemünde Army Research Center.\n\nDornberger was born in Gießen and enlisted in 1914. In October 1918, as an artillery lieutenant Dornberger was captured by United States Marines and spent two years in a French prisoner of war camp, mostly in solitary confinement because of repeated escape attempts. In the late 1920s, Dornberger completed an engineering course with distinction at the Berlin Technical Institute, and in the Spring of 1930, Dornberger graduated after five years with an MS degree in mechanical engineering from the \"Technische Hochschule Charlottenburg\" in Berlin. In 1935, Dornberger received an honorary doctorate, which Col. Karl Emil Becker arranged as Dean of the new Faculty of Military Technology at the TH Berlin.\n\nIn April 1930, Dornberger was appointed to the Ballistics Council of the German Army (\"Reichswehr\") Weapons Department as Assistant Examiner to secretly develop a military liquid-fuel rocket suitable for mass-production that would surpass the range of artillery. In the spring of 1932, Dornberger, his commander (Captain Ritter von Horstig), and Col. Karl Emil Becker visited the \"Verein für Raumschiffahrt\" (VfR)'s leased \"Raketenflugplatz\" (English: \"Rocket Flight Field\") and subsequently issued a contract for a demonstration launch. On 21 December 1932, Captain Dornberger watched a rocket motor explode at Kummersdorf while Wernher von Braun tried to light it with a flaming gasoline can at the end of a four meter long pole.\n\nIn 1933, \"Waffenamt Prüfwesen\" (\"Wa Prüf\", English: \"Weapons Testing\") 1/1, under the \"Heereswaffenamt\" (Army Weapons Department), commenced work under the direction of Colonel/Dr. Ing. h. c. Dornberger. Dornberger also took over his last \"military\" command on 1 October 1934, a powder-rocket training battery at Königsbrück. In May 1937, Dornberger and his ninety-man organization were transferred from Kummersdorf to Peenemünde. In September 1942, Dornberger was given two posts: coordinating the V-1 flying bomb and V-2 rocket development programs and directing active operations. The first successful test launch of a V-2 was the third test launch on 3 October 1942. In the early morning of 7 July 1943, Dr. Ernst Steinhoff flew von Braun and Major-General Dornberger in his Heinkel He 111 to Hitler's \"Führerhauptquartier\" \"Wolfsschanze\" headquarters and the next day Hitler viewed the film of the successful V-2 test launch (narrated by von Braun) and the scale models of the Watten bunker and launching-troop vehicles:\n\nIn January 1944, Dornberger was named Senior Artillery Commander 191 and was headquartered at Maisons-Lafitte near Saint Germain, and in December 1944, Dornberger was given complete authority for anti-aircraft rocket development (\"Flak E Flugabwehrkanonenentwicklung\"). On 12 January 1945 on Dornberger's proposal, Albert Speer replaced the Long-Range Weapons Commission with \"Working Staff Dornberger\". In February 1945, Dornberger and staff relocated his headquarters from Schwedt-an-der-Oder to Bad Sachsa, then on 6 April 1945, from Bad Sachsa to \"Haus Ingeborg\" in Oberjoch near Hindelang in the Allgäu mountains of Bavaria.\nBefore going to the Alps, General Dornberger had hidden his own papers near Bad Sachsa, which were recovered by the 332nd Engineer Regiment.\n\nOn 2 May 1945, Dornberger, von Braun, and five other men departed from Haus Ingeborg and travelled through Gaicht Pass and towards the little Austrian village of Schattwald. They met American soldiers who convoyed the group to the Tyrolean town of Reutte for the night. Other sources place them being arrested by Patton's Third Army on May 3, 1945 near Prague, Czechoslovakia.\nAt an internment camp after the war, known as \"CSDIC Camp 11\", the British bugged Dornberger, who in conversation with \"Generalmajor\" Gerhard Bassenge (GOC Air Defences, Tunis & Biserta) said that he and Wernher von Braun had realized in late 1944 that things were going wrong and consequently was in touch with the General Electric Corporation through the German Embassy in Portugal, with a view to coming to some arrangement.\n\nIn mid-August 1945, after taking part in Operation Backfire, Dornberger was escorted from Cuxhaven to London for interrogation by the British War Crimes Investigation Unit in connection with the use of slave labor in the production of V-2 rockets; he was subsequently transferred and detained for two years at Bridgend in South Wales.\n\nAlong with some other German rocket scientists, Dornberger was released and brought to the United States under the auspices of Operation Paperclip, and worked for the United States Air Force for three years, developing guided missiles. From 1950 to 1965 he worked for the Bell Aircraft Corporation where he worked on several projects, rising to the post of Vice-President. He played a major role in the creation of the North American X-15 aircraft and was a key consultant for the Boeing X-20 Dyna-Soar project. He also had a role on the creation of ideas and projects, which, in the end, led to the creation of the Space Shuttle. Dornberger also developed Bell's ASM-A-2, the world's first guided nuclear air-to-surface missile developed for the Strategic Air Command. Dornberger advised Germany on a European space program. During the 1950s he had some attrition with von Braun and was instrumental in recruiting several engineers out of the Huntsville's team for Air Force projects. The most remarkable of them was Krafft Ehricke, who later created the Centaur rocket stage and actively participated in several more Defense projects.\n\nFollowing retirement, Dornberger went to Mexico and later returned to Germany, where he died in 1980 in Baden-Württemberg.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11580075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11580075", "title": "William J. Graves", "text": "William J. Graves\n\nWilliam Jordan Graves (1805 – September 27, 1848) was a U.S. Representative from Kentucky.\n\nGraves was born in New Castle, Kentucky, and pursued an academic course early in life, choosing to study law. He was admitted to the bar and practiced law in Kentucky before serving as member of the State house of representatives in 1834. Graves was elected as an Anti-Jacksonian to the Twenty-fourth Congress and reelected as a Whig to the Twenty-fifth, and Twenty-sixth Congresses (March 4, 1835 – March 3, 1841).\n\nHe engaged in a duel at the Bladensburg dueling grounds on the Marlboro Road in Maryland with Congressman Jonathan Cilley in 1838. Graves was a stand-in for New York newspaper editor James Watson Webb, whom Cilley had called corrupt. Cilley was inexperienced with guns, and Graves was a crack shot with a pistol. As the challenged party, Cilley had the choice of weapons; he selected rifles at 80 yards, a distance that would negate Graves' shooting skill. The actual distance at the first exchange of shots was later determined to be 94 yards; both participants missed. They then agreed to shorten the distance and fire again; again both Graves and Cilley missed. After again shortening the distance, on the third fire Graves hit Cilley in the femoral artery; he bled to death in ninety seconds. This duel prompted passage of a congressional act of February 20, 1839, prohibiting the issuing or accepting of a challenge within the District of Columbia, even if the duel was to be fought outside the district.\n\nHe was not a candidate for renomination in 1840.\nHe was again a member of the State house of representatives in 1843.\nHe died in Louisville, Kentucky, September 27, 1848.\nHe was interred in the private burial grounds at his former residence in Henry County, Kentucky.\n"}
{"id": "191021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191021", "title": "William Kempe", "text": "William Kempe\n\nWilliam Kempe (died 1603), commonly referred to as Will Kemp, was an English actor and dancer specialising in comic roles and best known for having been one of the original players in early dramas by William Shakespeare. Roles associated with his name may include the great comic creation, Falstaff, and his contemporaries considered him the successor to the great clown of the previous generation, Richard Tarlton.\n\nKempe's success and influence was such that in December 1598 he was one of a core of five actor-shareholders in the Lord Chamberlain's Men alongside Shakespeare and Richard Burbage, but in a short time (possibly after a disagreement among the members of the troupe) he parted company with the group. Despite his fame as a performer and subsequent intent to continue his career, he appears to have died unregarded and in poverty circa 1603.\n\nIn a 1615 lawsuit brought by Thomasina (née Heminges) Ostler, widow of William Ostler, against her father, John Heminges, the recently deceased actor William Kempe was referred to as a gentleman (\"Willelmo Kempe nuper de Londonia generoso defuncto\"), and it has been suggested that he was a member of the Kempe family of Olantigh, a property north of Wye in Kent:\n\nKemp's parentage is unknown, though it has been conjectured that, despite his plebeian performance persona, he was linked in some way to the Kempes of Ollantighe, near Ashford in Kent, who were a wealthy Catholic dynasty. Sir Thomas Kempe (1517–1591) did indeed have a son named William; however, the claim that this William Kempe was the actor cannot be correct, since he was buried at Wye church on 27 March 1597 (Honneyman, 125–9; Bannerman, 3; private information, A. Findlay) . Nonetheless, this putative connection might help explain the otherwise surprising story—dramatized in the play The Travailes of the Three English Brothers (1607) by Day, Rowley, and Wilkins—that when William Kemp the actor was in Italy in 1601 he had an encounter with the celebrated traveller Sir Anthony Shirley: for Sir Anthony and his two equally famous brothers were related to the Ollantighe Kempes through their mother, who was Sir Thomas Kempe's daughter. Possibly, then, the actor had some tie of kinship to Ollantighe, at an outlying point on the family tree; or perhaps in recommending himself to Shirley he was just opportunistically taking advantage of the name he shared with Shirley's mother.\n\nKempe first enters the historical record as a performer with Leicester's Men at Leicester House in May 1585 and continued in this service after Leicester's departure for the Low Countries to take part in the Eighty Years' War. Leicester's nephew, Philip Sidney, sent letters home by way of a man he called \"Will, my Lord of Lester's jesting player\" and it is now generally accepted this was Kempe. Sidney complained in a letter to Francis Walsingham that \"Will\" had delivered the letters to Lady Leicester rather than Sidney's wife, Frances Walsingham. After a brief return to England, Kempe accompanied two other future Lord Chamberlain's Men, George Bryan and Thomas Pope, to Elsinore where he entertained Frederick II of Denmark.\n\nKempe's whereabouts in the later 1580s are not known, but that his fame as a performer was growing during this period is indicated by Thomas Nashe's \"An Almond for a Parrot\" (1590). Nashe dedicated this work to Kempe, calling him \"vicegerent general to the ghost of Dick Tarlton.\" Similarly, the title-page of the quarto of \"A Knack to Know a Knave\" advertises Kempe's \"merriments\". (Because title-pages were a means to draw attention to a book, the mention of Kempe suggests that he had become an attraction in his own right.) Critics have generally viewed the scene in which Kempe performs as rather flat (Collier, 97) and it is assumed that the scene provided a framework within which Kempe could improvise. Entries in the Stationers' Register indicate that three jigs (short comic plays) perhaps written by Kempe were published between 1591 and 1595. Two of these have survived.\n\nBy 1592 Kempe was one of Lord Strange's Men, listed in the Privy Council authorisation for that troupe to play seven miles out of London. In 1594, upon the dissolution of Strange's Men, Kempe, along with Burbage and Shakespeare, joined the Lord Chamberlain's Men and remained with that company until early 1599, when a still-unclear sequence of events removed him from the company. Although he had been a sharer in the plans to construct the Globe Theatre, he appeared in no productions in the new theatre, which was open by mid-1599, and evidence from Shakespeare's \"Henry V\", in which there is no promised continued role for Falstaff, and \"Hamlet\", containing its famous complaint at improvisational clowning (Act 3, Scene 2), indicates some of the circumstances in which Kempe may have been dropped. Kemp played his last role for Shakespeare in 1598.\n\nAfter his departure from the Chamberlain's Men in early 1599, Kempe continued to pursue his career as a performer. In February and March 1600, he undertook what he would later call his \"Nine Days Wonder\", in which he morris danced from London to Norwich (a distance of over a hundred miles) in a journey which took him nine days spread over several weeks, often amid cheering crowds. Later that year he published a description of the event to prove to doubters that it was true. However, his activities after this famous stunt are as obscure as his origins. On evidence from \"The Travels of the Three English Brothers\", he is assumed to have made another European tour, perhaps reaching Italy, but by 1601 he was borrowing money from Philip Henslowe and had joined Worcester's Men. The last undoubted mention of him occurs in Henslowe's diary in late 1602.\n\nParish records record the death of \"Kempe, a man\" in \"St. Saviour\", Southwark, late in 1603. While this is not necessarily the comedian, the record fits his departure from the documentary record.\n\nIn his time, Kempe was as famous for his stage jigs as for his acting in regular drama. The jig, a kind of rustic cousin to commedia dell'arte, featured as many as five performers in a partially improvised song-and-dance routine. Jigs had plots, often bawdy, but the emphasis was on dancing and physical comedy. Two of Kempe's jigs survive in English, and two more in German. Examples of the jigs may be seen in the manuscript collection of John Dowland (now in the Cambridge University Library). A famous 17th century jig called Kemp's Jig was named after Will Kempe and was published in the first book of John Playford's \"The English Dancing Master\" of 1651. The tune has received a number of modern renditions, including those by Jan Akkerman and Gryphon.\n\nAs an actor, Kempe is certainly associated with two roles: Dogberry in \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and Peter in \"Romeo and Juliet\". (In the quarto text of the latter, and in both quarto and First Folio text of the former, he is identified in speech prefixes and stage directions.) From these hints, a list of Kempe's parts has been deduced which, if conjectural, is not improbable: Costard in \"Love's Labours Lost\", Bottom in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", Lancelot Gobbo in \"The Merchant of Venice\", and Cob in Ben Jonson's \"Every Man in His Humour\". Falstaff is a more ambiguous case. Though Falstaff presents some features of an Elizabethan dramatic clown, his character is higher in class and more complex than the other roles with which Kempe is associated.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2008, comedian Tim FitzHigham re-enacted Kemp's Nine Day's Wonder by Morris dancing from London to Norwich, forming the basis of his play The Bard's Fool, performed at the Edinburgh Fringe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15187129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187129", "title": "Zang Shiyi", "text": "Zang Shiyi\n\nZang Shiyi ( Hepburn: \"Zō Shikiki\"; October 1884 – November 13, 1956) was a Chinese general and Governor of Liaoning Province at the time of the invasion of Manchuria in 1932.\nZang was born in Shenyang county of Liaoning Province in 1884. He traveled to Japan on a scholarship to the Tokyo Shimbu Gakko and subsequently graduated from 9th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy, with a specialty in the cavalry, in 1909. On his return to China he joined the pro-republican forces in Nanjing during the Xinhai Revolution.\n\nAfter the founding of the Republic of China in 1914 he became an instructor at the Baoding Military Academy, where he soon caught the attention of Adm. Sheng Hung Leih, who appointed him to his staff. He rose to Chief of Staff for the Kuomintang forces in Kirin Province. He participated in the Zhili–Anhui War in 1920 and the First Zhili–Fengtian War of 1923. Together with Yan Yuting, he subsequently became Chief of Staff of the business administration section of the Kuomintang National Revolutionary Army headquarters in Nanjing.\n\nAfter the death of Manchurian warlord Zhang Zuolin, Zang supported the Chinese Reunification Movement and was appointed governor of Liaoning Province in 1930.\n\nAfter the Mukden Incident Zang initially refused to cooperate with the Imperial Japanese Army and was imprisoned. However, he later decided to defect and was re-appointed governor of Liaoning Province (renamed Fengtien Province) on 16 December 1931. He was part of the Northeastern Administrative Committee or \"Self-Government Guiding Board that made plans for a new State of Manchukuo to be established in February 1932.\n\nIn 1932 Zang was re-appointed governor of Fengtian Province of Manchukuo, a position he retained after the administrative reorganization of the provinces of Manchukuo from four to ten provinces in October 1934. In March 1935 he was Emperor Puyi's first choice to replace Zheng Xiaoxu as Prime Minister of Manchukuo (although Zhang Jinghui was appointed instead at the insistence of the Japanese Kwantung Army leadership). From 21 May 1935 Zang served in the largely ceremonial role as Speaker of the Manchukuo Senate—a post which he held until the collapse of Manchukuo in August 1945. He later served as Vice Minister for Home Affairs.\n\nIn 1940 Zang was appointed ambassador to the Reorganized National Government of China headed by Wang Jingwei.\n\nFollowing the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, he declared an emergency session of the Manchukuo legislature to promulgate the abdication of Emperor Puyi on 17 August 1945, effective 18 August, and attempted to open negotiations with the Soviet Union. However, the Manchukuo capital of Hsinking fell to the Red Army on 20 August 1945, and Zang was captured ten days later. He was initially held in custody in Siberia, but was extradited to the People's Republic of China in 1950, where he died of illness in captivity at the War Criminals Management Centre in Fushun, Liaoning, on 13 November 1956.\n\n\n"}
